Translator: Ellen Maloney I've something very important I'm so glad I was invited I really am, because and that's what it's all about, and no kidding, that's all I do. I also drink water. When I was about 36, I had just gotten through a very bad year. I'd gotten a divorce, I had no money, I had two very small children. I couldn't get a day care center, We stayed in welfare hotels in New York; They have cockroaches, we could name the cockroaches, and we played &quot;early computer games&quot; (Laughter) But we got a day care center, I got a job, we got an apartment, And I was washing dishes "By God, we made it.&quot; The kids were great, I cried a lot, but we did it. We did it, that's good, And then I had another thought. I thought, "Is this it? Is that what I get? Is my gravestone going to say, &quot;Her house was frequently clean for very brief periods of time?&quot; (Laughter) I was going to do something; I didn't have particular talents, I wasn't very good at things. But I figured, I just have a bad attitude, because that was about the 60s, about positive thinking, and "create your own reality,&quot; I thought, "Hey, 36, and nobody will ever love But that's not so old; I'm going to see if I can figure out So I went to everything. I stood in rooms where "I can do it! I can do it!" And I did that, but I still couldn't do it. And they said, "Think positive", I didn't believe that, and you know what? I was raised in the 50s. In my day, if you said to do what you wanted, or turn peoples sentences (Laughter) I am not a &quot;New Age&quot; lady; And so I just gave up. I thought, "Well, I guess somebody's got to do it." And I tried to forget about it. Then something astonishing happened it has already, in the ensuing years, and thousands of people. And that all started in my second job. I had a job in the evening Encounter groups were something in the drug program, until you cave in, and they scream and you holler at them, I was there and he said, Because I was good at it; in my family, (Laughter) It was a natural ability, and I had groups every night after work. I had one on Tuesday night, which is going to go down in history. In this group there was somebody named Ronnie. Well, that's what I call him. I've been telling this story Ronnie was different. We used to call him &quot;Type B&quot;. He didn't have any feelings He came because we were But he leaked hostility. It just came out of him, and everybody laying their eyes on him We had to walk him home after the group, And he was very valuable. Because people would come in this one woman came in and she said, "I quit law school to put I became a waitress, and then after that, he divorced me, and married somebody younger and prettier, and took the house and everything. Naturally, because he's a lawyer but that's okay I guess, you know, if I wasn't enough. But now he wants the kids because he says he can give them but I feel funny about it." I was looking at the group I said, "Listen, you'd better get angry, or they're going And she said 'I'm not angry." I said, "Try." She said, "I'm angry, I'm angry." I said, "Ronnie, would you put He did. I said, "Look at Ronnie." She said, &quot;Eww, I wanna smack him!" (Laughter) And she said, "Ronnie, You idiot!" And she switched over to her husband and she just went off like a volcano. Oh, it was so satisfying (Laughter) When she was done, like you do when you get to your feelings. She said, "I can't believe And she said, "Oh Ronnie, I'm sorry!" He said, "I'm always glad So, he was very helpful. When I'd have a go-around Somebody would say, "I had a fight with my boyfriend, and I'd say, 'What about you?" And they'd say, "No, I'm good." I'd say, "What about you, Ronnie?" and he would always say, "I'm fine." This particular night I said, 'How are you doing, Ronnie?" I said, "Oh! A feeling! Um... Why are you depressed?" He said, "I hate my apartment." I said, "Why don't you get another one" They were very easy He said, "I can't get another apartment I said, "I think I fell for something." And someone raised her hand and said, If you saw his apartment, I said, "Oh. Reality. I like reality. Okay, why don't you guys go out, and find him an apartment, we'll have a painting party, and if he's still depressed, I'll send him to somebody And they said "Okay!&quot; You have to understand, New Yorkers do not mind I was raised before that in Los Angeles In New York they go, "I'm neurotic!" They don't care. So these people cheered up, They went out, got an apartment, and the next week we had a go-around He said "I'm happy!" I said, "Wow! That's great! He said, &quot;Wait a minute.&quot; I said, "Yeah?" He said, "Well now I want a woman.&quot; (Laughter) I said, &quot;A woman?&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah, &quot;I have We had to be emotionally so somebody, a woman, said to him, (Laughter) He said, &quot;I know; fix me.&quot; (Laughter) And they said, &quot;Fix you?&quot; I said, &quot;Why not? What the hell! Ronnie, he didn't look good. He had one positive attribute: That's where it ended. His pants fit wrong. He looked wrong. He talked wrong. So the women took him to the store and the men took him to the gym and not be in danger all the time, and when it was his turn he would stand up and try Somebody would come and he would say, "H-u-llo!&quot; And she'd say, &quot;Not like that, He'd say, &quot;Give me another try,&quot; and finally after about six months, he said, &quot;I think I'm We looked at him &quot;Okay, let's set a date for a party After that, everybody would &quot;I got one! I was in the supermarket and I saw she had one can of cat food and I said, 'You want to go to a party?&quot; Someone else said, "I was walking with trash, and I heard somebody crying. I saw too many wine bottles in the trash, and someone came I said, &quot;You want to go to a party?&quot; (Laughter) We got innocent visiting cousins It was a triumph. Nobody talked to Ronnie. (Laughter) But he'd learned how to make And when it was over I said, Keep throwing parties; you never know, But it's good for everybody, I want you They said okay, and they did! And he found somebody. She was actually quite cute to look at, But, hell, it was Ronnie, They didn't come as often, but she would drag him in to confront him. She liked that idea. And I don't remember what except for one thing, She came in, dragged him in, her dog had died and she was crying. When she saw them come in They walked in and I said, she said, &quot;I have to confront Ronnie because he uses too many adjectives And I looked at her and I said, &quot;I wouldn't take that So she went, &quot;I'm angry, Ronnie!&quot; And he said, &quot;I'm sorry!&quot; Then they were done, they walked out of the room, Somebody looked at them I said, &quot;What's wrong with this picture? Ronnie is the only person in this room with a good apartment, who is not I said, &quot;Listen, listen. What if we got together every week &quot;We don't know what we want.&quot; &quot;Well, we help you figure it out and then we made you do I mean the world makes you do you have to pay your taxes, what if we made you do You could have your dream; They said, &quot;Barbara, we're too neurotic.&quot; I said, &quot;What are you talking about? We could put a man on the moon, (Laughter) And we did it. Amazing things started to happen. Right in that group, we got somebody and she started a law firm Somebody adopted a kid, We got wonderful things. So, my wish was to create a workshop, I went around the country; didn't make I went around the country teaching people how to be because they were just great. Then at the end, I'd say, &quot;I'm going to prove it to you; These are all true stories, I was in Greenville, North Carolina, and I said, &quot;Tell me an impossible dream; A woman stood up and said, That's from &quot;Dirty Dancing.&quot; So you could hear women say, &quot;Yeah, you and every other Another woman waved her hand. I said, &quot;Does anyone have ideas?&quot; A woman raised her hand, and said, 30 miles away; I work there weekends. He comes Wednesday, I'll take you up; (Laughter) (Applause) That was nothing. Somebody stood up, she was crying, for old dogs and old animals. They just don't get treated. It's terrible, even farm animals,&quot; I just said, &quot;What's your obstacle?&quot; I'm going to teach you that is the secret. If you don't learn it, nothing happens. I said, &quot;What's your obstacle?&quot; &quot;What's my obstacle?! I don't have any money, land, license, I can't do it!&quot; Someone waved her hand, they always do, and said, &quot;My friend's mother she hurt her back, she won't be able She can't find anybody She's got a license, the money, the land, (Laughter) And it wouldn't stop. Oh God, I've got so many. There was a woman &quot;I make harps; I make them from a special and now it's gone. The last tree is gone. There is no tree left, Someone in the back &quot;Are you talking about such and so?&quot; and she said, "Yeah!&quot; She said, &quot;My brother has a big stand Come back here, I'll give you his number.&quot; Every time; it never fails. This is a funny one; there was a lady in New York, and she got up in the aisle, and said, &quot;I need a chimp. I said &quot;What? &quot;I've got to rent a chimp.&quot; I said, &quot;A chimpanzee? You want to rent?&quot; She said, "Yes." She said, &quot;What I do I go through the big corporations and a bunch of cute toys for kids, and everybody comes out into the corridor and they buy all the stuff. The chimpanzee costs me about $200 a day, so I'm making a living. But they just raised chimpanzee rentals A woman in the back, &quot;I think we can do better than that.&quot; I said, &quot;You rent chimpanzees?&quot; She said, "Yes, and giraffes, (Laughter) I said, &quot;In New York City?&quot; She said, "Yes.&quot; I said, "Why?&quot; She said, &quot;This is where We've got trainers too. We've got everything.&quot; I thought, &quot;Blow me down. You never know who you're talking to!" We're all the center of enormous amounts that we don't need unless somebody asks us. I began to realize that I had found and - boy! - did it have nothing to do Oh boy, nothing. (Laughter) Here's the punchline: Isolation is the dream killer, You can hate yourself, You wake up and go, &quot;I'm fat.&quot; You know you do that. If you wake up in the morning your wife will kill you (Laughter) And I'll help her. You can't walk around faking feelings, I just feel bad that everybody started it. That says, "Cross out Positive Thinking.&quot; And this says "Here's a team.&quot; Right? Not necessarily closest because they've got attitudes about you. Strangers are great, absolutely great. So here's what you do: You get a team. You figure out what you want, &quot;Here is my wish, Here's what I want, If you don't say both those We are problem-solving animals. If you say, &quot;I'd love to be a ballerina.&quot; Everybody goes, "Mmm.&quot; If you say I'd love to be a ballerina, Every mind starts working. Even if people don't like you, &quot;I heard about, 44-year-olds, There's a new ballet troupe, I read People want to help. Amazing things will happen to you. I'll give you my last stories Someone called me from Toronto. She was a Success Team &quot;We have an accountant in Toronto, We had a group with six people; He was so helpful; he got them bank loans, But he never wanted anything. Finally they said, &quot;Listen, We can't take anything from you anymore!' And he said, &quot;I can't tell you; They said, 'Oh no, absolutely not. Barbara Sher says, &quot;You never laugh at anyone's dream.&quot; He said, &quot;Okay, well, So naturally they all laughed. (Laughter) Someone said, &quot;What's the obstacle?&quot; He said, &quot;What's the obstacle? I don't even know if there are cowboys, and I wanted to be one, that's it. I don't know if there are cowboys. Second, I've got a business; What are you talking about?' Someone said, &quot;Wait a minute,&quot; She remembered her roommate And soon he called. And we said, &quot;Turn on the speakerphone.&quot; The guy said, &quot;I hear I'd like to fly you out one And the accountant said, He said, 'I know, I don't want And then the women kicked him He said, &quot;You can be a cowboy; and you can on a drive He said, &quot;You have cowboys?&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah, if you had steak So he did it. He sent back photographs. He went out, he became a cowboy, and he does his Toronto But the best story of all, and the one happened in Memphis in the summer. August was very hot, and I was asking A woman in the front row raised her hand, and I said, &quot;Yes, what is your wish So she said, &quot;I'm tired; &quot;Okay, what is your obstacle?&quot; And she said, &quot;Well, I have three: money, - an adult daughter, I can't leave her and I'd rather not mention the third.&quot; And before I could ask a guy came running up the aisle a pair of shorts, waving a piece of paper, &quot;I ran for the Heart Association My wife isn't going to let me go Everyone got excited and applauded and didn't have to worry about money. She said, &quot;That's sweet, A woman on the aisle raised &quot;I'm a public health nurse we have to give ten days and I haven't found anybody so can you use ten days?&quot; Everybody got excited and I said, &quot;I think you're going to have &quot;Well, it's embarrassing, because she's been physically Her ex-husband is stalking her.&quot; And the room fell silent. I mean everyone thought, &quot;Oh, shit!&quot; A voice came from the back of the room. I never saw this man's face, I will never forget his voice, he said, &quot;I'm a cop, what's his name?&quot; (Laughter) She went on the cruise. But here's what I want to tell you: We depend on each other's What do you think's going to happen It's just a cruise. But her daughter's going to get well; Her daughter's going to become a teacher. She's going to understand She's going to understand kids who are Every time you make someone else's No magical New Age way, You have to, you have to. You have to figure out what you want, and you have to remember And you have to let people help you because you have to go after your dreams, Just remember: we got Ronnie and a woman, a crazy woman, We can do anything. That's what I wanted to tell you. (Applause)