This video is kindly sponsored by Skillshare. I tracked everything that I bought and everything bought an ice cube tray, I wrote it down. And I wrote it down. A challenge that became even more buying an apartment and moving. But I did keep I want to share the results with you. So this I decluttered in 2023 as a minimalist, while ground rules that I used for the challenge. One: I only wrote down things that were mine or ours. So he bought a sweater or something, I didn't write like groceries, toothpaste or toilet paper. And ebooks or photos on my phone. Everything else, I will share my numbers for the different categories books, plants, everything. And I'll make sure the categories, so feel free to use them. And I you know, replacing certain things or getting rid I made these decisions. And I will add everything video. As well as just my thoughts and conclusions DIY stuff, I thought it'd be fun to start with just didn't used to have, like at all. Because we needed maintenance in our old apartment, we could Now that we own this apartment, we do need to keep that we needed to fix that the previous owners the walls that we needed to fill. And I am not moldings that came crashing down and a bunch more between items that we felt like we would use those we bought new. And some other things that we those we borrowed from family members. And in this category. We now own one of these and one of to open up the windows in this apartment, because set now, which honestly still scares me. And I now on. But it did come in handy a lot. We own to learn how to paint the walls myself. Last a makeover. And I'm so happy with how it turned made it look very cluttered and overwhelming to and it is such an improvement. So next up we will own three of these right now, because apparently let the air out of our radiators. Luckily they needed to let the air out apparently. Second we took a lot with us from the old apartment. Like rug. Also the decorative ladder, this little table our reading chair with a little table, and with us. But we also had some 10-year-old or that I have been really disliking for years at because we've been wanting to move for years. that you end up in and what kind of furniture will But when we got this place, I could finally get my place exactly how I wanted it. Almost everything So a direct replacement of the old one. And we got dining room setup, the wardrobe and a bunch more know for sure that these furniture pieces will be have to do anything else with this category for the biggest category by far. And again, it had to were some things that I've been wanting to replace that we are here, it really was time for some old towels. These things can just kind of start to had definitely used them up to that point. So I'm have people over, I don't want them to have to dry We also replaced our bathroom towels. This was years now, that again, I waited with. And our old and gray. Which happens to be the exact color have chosen these colors for the bathroom myself, is still a beautiful bathroom, it just needed some gray in the form of towels. So I'm very happy with soft and fluffy too. Sometimes, it's only after how kind of old and nasty something was. Like they ones. Speaking of nasty and old, we also replaced a trash bin in the kitchen. We also replaced our we bought a lot of things to just organize things drawer dividers. Around 20 in total. Some new A new drying rack. And we have one of these now, system in this place is very old and we don't have which is something that you really do miss. So this category comes down down to 66 items in. storage containers and towels. And 42 items out. but also some new additions. Serving wear, flat I love this stuff. But I really didn't want to pretty happy with the results. We had add 10 items protect our new table, four teacups and a marble matcha whisk. Number five, kitchen stuff. In the got two ice cube trays, three food containers, and like a chipped oven tray and our coffee grinder the kitchen, it was eight items in and 10 items I quickly want to thank the sponsor of this video: community for creatives and they have thousands of creative hobbies, career focus classes and more. life. For example to improve my cooking or when take care of my plants better. But I've definitely I wanted to learn videography, or digital designing my ebook, and tons more. Basically if has been my go-to place for years now. So maybe in 2024, but you don't know where to start. Then to get you started. From brainstorming ideas, to find your audience, build an online presence, and to know to make your dream a reality. And the best for free. Because the first 500 people to click free trial. So you can watch as many classes as wanting to learn, or that you're just curious So big thanks to Skillshare for supporting the This is the second biggest category in the list. some improvements to my wardrobe this year. I've And I always feel a little unsure and uh confused a few ways that I want to improve it. First is fit me. There were many things that had gotten too enough also still some things that were too small that were just used up and it was time for them still that I just never really reached for, never experiment with my style a little bit. And turns actually super simple. And I want everything in match my simple sense of style. And four, there underwear and active wear that really work to be done. And in order for me not to feel out with my wardrobe this year. Just making very things that were like similar, but better. Like or they match my style better, things like that. I am taking a little bit of a break. Because I that much. So I am thinking of continuing this Overall there were 21 items in and 32 items out like a lot, but more than half, like two old underwear, old active wear. So in terms of funny thing to add is that for the entire year I jewelry, or any of that stuff. Which brings me to there was only one item in, which is my Zuvi halo end up liking it a lot. Because it dries your it doesn't damage your hair. And there were five small jewelry pouches, an old watch. And a Denman so much, but I just could not figure out. Next six items in and eight items out in this category. earphones broke and I ended up going for new that was like, why does everyone need cordless like them a lot. And I use them a lot. Especially our robot vacuum this year, because it really vacuum broke. So that is two out. And then one in, some old equipment for my work that I wasn't using that had broken. Things like that. I also ended V10. I really like it and I use it a lot. more. Number nine, books. In terms of books, I'm ebooks. And I have six in and zero out in this sensitive person. I have three cookbooks now. And the spirits, which is one of my favorite books to read this in Spanish in the future. And it's Spanish. Next up is plant and pots. You all know and not get any more this year. Unfortunately, friends. And I don't know what happened here. I it. And also unfortunately, our devil's ivy didn't but it just, it died in this apartment. I did take it. And we got rid of our beloved palm tree, new apartment. Little bit of pain in my heart, like 10 years. But we gave it to a couple who I know that it is in good hands with them. And I monstera right behind me. And I love it so much. it'll turned out to be. But for right now, up getting some fake plants, that I've mentioned enjoy that much. So not buying any more of them. total in this category, was six in and four out. This is a small category with not much to say sentimental items. I didn't do any decluttering We both have one box that we just filled with We did get one new thing in this category, which I really enjoyed playing that game together this memories from when we first moved into this place. happy because he's so cute. So we decided to get for you. And I love it so much. So in total, I got And 121 items out, which is a little bit fewer like 2/3 of the this list had to do with us buying replacing some things that I've just been wanting this list would have looked very differently if any changes in the furniture. We wouldn't have had We would probably still have the same towels and been different. When it comes to minimalism, I am You all know like I'm much more of a, I don't all the things on this list were purchases that I And there weren't any things that I ended up with, you know, the decisions that I made. I guess feelings of wanting to start with a clean slate to be the thing to hold me back from really making that everything is set up here, we probably have we will keep using for years and years to come. next year. I do have some plans as I mentioned I've had my eye on for my work. Such as a new I think the list will be a lot shorter. If you it if you could share your results in the comment too. So if you want to join me, then please leave how many people are joining in this challenge. keep a list on my phone of like in and out. And I just quickly write it down so I don't forget. easy. This will be the last video of the year published on January 1st, so keep an eye out from the bottom of my heart for being here this Zen community. Don't forget to try out Skillshare leave everything you need in the description box. down below. Have a wonderful day and a wonderful and I will see you all again soon. Bye-bye. keeping track of everything even with the move.