Transcriber: Bob Prottas Yes, I am the mathematician (Laughter) And to begin I need you I mean, there's your first orgasm But these are very sophisticated equations that model a successful marriage. And they're ground breaking equations because it was the first time was used in the field of romance. And they predict with 95% accuracy rate whether newlyweds will be together And you can see there's the &quot;W&quot; for wife and the &quot;H&quot; for husband. So, they modeled newlyweds like the in-laws or money. And then they modeled the responses according to how each partner Body language as well. And what came out at the end there, which actually revealed that couples that responded the least to each other had a better chance So that means -- I see some people are like, So, couples that compromised the least ended up being together the most. This was very interesting because a lot of therapy And you laughed before, so maybe you don't say &quot;Yes darling, I know. Let me rub your feet Because what they've actually found Maybe the best way, that having high standards for those standards So mathematics is the study of patterns. All the symbols that you see You know, encapsulating patterns. And we're very used to seeing mathematics being used That's just because You know, E equals mc squared. There's actually been an evolution. Since the 80's into stock market analysis, And then since the 1990's or 2000's even we're seeing mathematics enter like psychology, sociology, New mathematics appears every day. I brought in a few Here's some latest research. This is looking at antibiotic use and how to implement antibiotics while getting the patient healthy, but making sure That came out a couple of weeks ago. And this is looking at how an opinion And when will you have the coexistence One of my favorites, This one's from 2009 and this is One that melts in your mouth And yes, these are very sexy equations, Mathematics is absolutely everywhere It really is no surprise that now we're seeing Now, love sucks. Because, yes, you're excited at first. But then you're scared. You're sitting looking at your phone, Then they send you a two-word text. And you're like, &quot;Whoo-hoo! (Laughter) And so these equations are more likely to come together to have a more stable because some people they just end up being Imagine being in a relationship That would be like and also like this. It gets a bit out of control -- So just to tell you, it's about one thing to look out for if you overestimate So with partners we can behave &quot;He's so smart. He's so sexy.&quot; (mumbling) Anyway, (Laughter) here's some more mathematics. Now, men report, on average, as many women than women do men. And this does not make sense. (Laughter) It doesn't. (Laughter) I know you're all thinking, &quot;But what about my ex? No, every time a man there are averages for other things -- But in a large enough sample space it's going to be about the same, So here's an example. Here's Charlie Sheen. (Laughter) Then the next guy, only one. And that forces, you see, The first one's had one. And 2, 4, 6, 8, 9. and on the right 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Every time a man has sex with a woman it's adding to the general tally Now, why is this discrepancy? Because the surveys it turns out, if you ask about kinky things, (Laughter) What we've turned to Because if you enumerate If you approximate So it seems women are going, the guy with the sexy biceps. The end.&quot; And men are going, (Laughter) You know. My favorite clue in all the data was that 80% of men's results (Laughter) So, of course the mathematicians are like, (Laughter) Back to some more waves. Of course, there are waves And these equations look at what kind how does your body know And it's based on understanding at birth ready to go. We hear so much about women's hormones, so I've brought in men's as well. These are --- These are real. These model the relationship between as the fluctuation happens during the day. (Laughter) I promise these are real. Testosterone, for example, And a slump in the evening. But there's actually every 2 to 2.5 hours in between. So, you know what that means. If you ask a guy a favor just wait half an hour (Laughter) just try and get that slump moment. It's got its purposes. Though the peak Yes, this is all great fun and sex problems for hours. But ultimately, what I'm about and the impact of abstract thinking And so let me turn things What do you think happens before doing mathematics? Because it's actually You'll actually become better at doing certain types of brain processes. It turns out there's two fundamental types You either think globally or locally. Forest or trees. And when you're solving a problem, you often start with the global and then you have to dig in deep It turns out that we're now seeing that this is linked to creative And more than that we're finding that it's actually So, if you get people to think about love they'll be better at the globalization, the beginning, the creative part. And if you get people to think about sex they get better at the process Easy as that. And here's the bigger question What is this thing called mathematics that's only been going that popped up independently that so many people swear they can't do? See, there's something You can't have something with some people No, that doesn't make sense. Here's a school report card of mine in French. My parents are these wild, wild travelers I'm actually the conservative offspring As you see, we lived in Cannes, whatever. But more importantly, you can see And my best result was 15 which is woodwork. (Laughter) So it's very clear to me Once I found mathematics at 18 it was the first time to something that was so amazing. You see, pattern recognition is right at the core of the animal kingdom. You see, even reptiles recognize whether it's something Even a jellyfish knows which way is up Now the seeds of the number concept are also very much part A pack of animals will recognize whether another pack And you can actually teach a rat an approximate number of times Now, you see how I used That's because the rat doesn't have to capture, tame those innate sensations. So if the rat is just tapping three times But once it gets to 16, it doesn't know where it's reaching. If you do an experiment we'll make exactly the same We went further. We went to things like 2 + 5 = 5 + 2. I can swap the order of things We went further still. A + B = B + A I can substitute that I'm now aware of in that formula You see, language is more With it, we also got cause and effect Mathematics is our most precise use Because with mathematics the pattern linking discovery, It is very precise what is in each classification. In the box or outside the box. And that is why mathematics is so powerful and being used more And that's why it's so hard the limits of our evolution We're using, with the most ultimate precision we can. Mathematics as you can see, it's just --- what's so breath taking is that it emerged And when people came together they may have clashed when it came but their mathematics, You see, mathematics Like sex, it transcends human culture. And now that I've shared that with you, you are the sexiest ladies in town. (Laughter) Thank you very much. (Applause)