(bright relaxing music) (upbeat instrumental music) (upbeat instrumental music continues) - Hi, I'm Rick Steves. For many travelers, the quintessence of Spain The sounds, sites, and are shaped by waves of history. In this hour-long special, we'll enjoy the classic in the classic Andalusian places. Dazzling Moorish palaces, sunny laid-back beaches, a whitewashed hill towns, followed by flamboyant flamenco revel, a mighty rock drilled through with history and overrun with mischievous monkeys, weeping virgins, and with pretty dancers and graceful horsemen. Andalusia is a vibrant It's a lifestyle, it's proud, and for many, it's the south In Southwest Europe is Spain, and in the far south We start in Jerez, zip over to Granada, and join Nerja on the Costa del Sol, explore Cordoba and check out Ronda. Then after side-tripping into Gibraltar, we finish in Seville. Andalusia's heritage is and it expresses itself in iconic themes. The town of Jerez is Dazzling horses, velvety sherry, and a spring fair that brings for a week-long party. Originally a horse fair, when the sherry producers Today, the Jerez Fair is a vast collection of over 200 casetas or tents, each owned by a family or local business who host parties until For locals, the fair, which kicks off the summer season. (upbeat flamenco music) During the day, the fairgrounds are jangling It's all about fine Andalusian horses and the proud traditions they represent. Women, dressed in their peacock finery, seem ready to break into dance (crowd chattering) - [Rick] Just down the street, the Royal Andalusian provides the foundation Performances pack its This is exquisite horsemanship. The stern riders and their obedient steeds perform to the delight of both tourists and horse aficionados. (audience applauds) The riders cue the horses with whether verbal or with body movements. (audience applauds) The horses are bred and trained both physically and mentally. (audience applauds) The equestrian school open to students from around the world. (audience clapping And all over Jerez, sherry Just around the corner the venerable Sandeman Winery has been producing sherry since 1790. Tours explain how the stacked barrels are part of the production process. In a time-honored tradition, new wine is blended with aged wine which is then fortified with alcohol. The vintner shares his product that mirrors the richness (relaxing guitar music) And the crowd pleasing a chance to savor the finished sherry. (group chattering in Spanish) - Throughout the countryside of Spain, sherry is advertised with huge billboards, or bullboards in this case. This big bull is the icon Next is a major stop in any (rhythmic flamenco music) Sprawling at the foot of the Granada is a thriving city Visitors focus on its old center that belies an illustrious past. Once the grandest city in Spain, its power ebbed and glory faded. It was appreciated mostly by Today it has a Deep South feel, a relaxed vibe that seems now past their prime. In the cool of the early and celebrates life on The story of Granada is all In the year 711, these crossed the Straits of Gibraltar and quickly conquered the eventually converting Throughout the Middle Spain was a predominantly Muslim society living under Muslim rule. (enchanted upbeat music) And that age shapes Granada's dominant sight is the Alhambra, the last and greatest Moorish palace. Nowhere else does the Al-Andalus, shine so brightly. For two centuries, until 1492, Granada reigned as the capital of a dwindling Moorish empire. As Christian forces pushed the Moors further and further south, of a sophisticated civilization. While the rest of Europe slumbered through much of the Middle Ages, the Moorish civilization was wide awake. The math necessary to would've dazzled Europeans at that age. The Moors made great gains even Classical Greek studies. In fact, some of the great had been forgotten by Europe, and actually given back here in Spain. (rhythmic enchanted music) The culture of the Moors was exquisite, artfully combining both Facing a reflecting pond, the Hall of the Ambassadors It was here that the received foreign emissaries. Its wooden ceiling illustrates With 8,000 pieces inlaid it symbolizes the complexity Arabic calligraphy, mostly poems and verses is everywhere. Muslims avoid making that's God's work, but decorating with One phrase, &quot;Only God is victorious,&quot; is repeated 9,000 times Like the sultan, we can into what was the most perfect This royal summer retreat, was the closest thing on Earth to the Quran's description of Heaven. In fact, its name, the Generalife, the Garden of Paradise. Water, so rare and precious was the purest symbol of life. Whether providing for its masking secret conversations, or just flowing playfully, water was integral to the (water babbling) For centuries, Europe struggled to push This campaign was called the Reconquista. Finally, in 1492, the Moors were defeated. The victorious Christian forces established their rule with gusto here in this last Muslim stronghold. (somber drumming music) This victory helped provide the foundation for Spain's Golden Age. Within a generation, Spain's was the most powerful man in the world. After the Reconquest, Charles built this Renaissance palace incongruously right in the It's what conquering civilizations do, build their palace atop This circle in a square structure was the finest Renaissance And back downtown, also built shortly after the Reconquest, declares triumph as well. In fact, its design is and it was built over a destroyed mosque. (relaxing guitar music) The adjacent royal chapel is This fine building provided for Queen Isabella of Castile who ruled during the Spaniards consider this couple the first great Spanish royals. When these two married, they And by merging Aragon and Castile, they founded what became modern Spain. With this powerful new realm, Spanish royalty were able including Columbus, and (cheerful enchanted guitar music) The royal tombs are Renaissance in style. The portraits of Isabella and Ferdinand are vital and realistic. They seem to celebrate the humanistic spirit of the Renaissance, and with it a promising future for Spain. The gilded altar is all Christ triumphs over sin and Christendom triumphs over Islam. In fact, reliefs show the eventual forced shortly after the Reconquista. For a time near the end Granada was the grandest But eventually with the the change from Muslim to Christian rule, the city lost its power, Today's Granada is a delightful and its Christian past. The Silk Market, or Alcaiceria, was originally across the so today it stands across Filled with precious goods, it was protected within Today while a tourist trap housed in a modern reconstruction, this colorful mesh of shopping lanes and overpriced trinkets is fun to explore. You'll invariably meet pushing their fragrant and then demanding payment. You can consider them or you can zip up your valuables and have a fun and spirited give-and-take. Oh nice! - [Seller] Nice. Dollar. I need dollar. - A handy mini-bus service through Spain's best old Increasingly around Europe, mini-buses wind locals through Tourists can hop on for a (horn honks) The Albaicin, with flowery patios and Exploring these labyrinthine back lanes and inviting neighborhood squares, you feel the Arab heritage that permeates so much of Andalusia. Enjoy a drink on a no-name square. Savor the lazy tempo of Granada life. An alternative community of young people, nicknamed Pie de Negro, or Blackfeet for their basic earthiness, hangs out in the Albaicin. (singing rhythmically in Spanish) (singing rhythmically in Spanish) (singing rhythmically in Spanish) - [Rick] And Granada is home or Roma people. While their nomadic culture makes traditional employment a challenge, one vocation in which they excel is music. (singing rhythmically in Spanish) (upbeat flamenco music) (singing rhythmically in Spanish) - [Rick] In the evening, in Gypsy families entertain tourists with colorful folkloric shows. These intimate concerts are that once housed (rhythmic clapping with flamenco music) - [Audience] Ole! - [Rick] Along with Gypsies and Hippies, tolerant Granada has a A modern mosque built in 2003 fits in with the local architecture and comes with a live call to prayer. - Allah! - The muezzin cries, &quot;God is great&quot; from the minaret without amplification, as non-Muslim neighbors insisted. There are about 700,000 Muslims in Spain and that includes nearly To learn more, we're joined by Malik Baso, a member of Granada's Muslim community. Would you say most of the Spanish Muslims are immigrant laborers for better jobs? - Yes. Moroccans, Algerians, But of course there is the recent phenomenon of - Because you were? You're Spanish? - Yes, I'm from Barcelona. - So tell me a little - Well, it was the first after the Reconquista. So for 500 years, this was the first It was promoted by a lot of people who were native Spanish Muslims, although it caters for all the Muslims. - So how has the process been - Well, some people were The effect of the media and such. But 10 years later, here we are and some of our most vocal opponents are now our best friends because they appreciate what - The mosque stands next to one of Europe's most romantic viewpoints. From the St. Nicholas locals and visitors alike and a convivial moment. To extend the magic, grab a prime table at Albaicin manor houses, You'll pay a bit more, but I to cap your visit to Granada. (relaxing cheerful music) From Granada, it's a two-hour and down into Europe's the Costa del Sol. I find this strip of generally overbuilt and Malaga, the major city of the coast, is a good place to pass through. And almost anything even resembling a quaint fishing village is long gone, replaced by timeshare The big draw is the beaches. There are plenty of hotels and Sun worshipers enjoy themselves in spite of the congestion or local culture. Nearly every country from tucks an expatriate community They don't wanna leave their (relaxing upbeat music) My favorite Costa del Sol stop While capitalizing on the holiday culture, Nerja has retained some of its charm. The church fronts the square, and everybody's out strolling, eventually winding up on the proud Balcony of Europe terrace. This bluff, jutting jauntily into the sea, overlooks miles of coastline. A castle occupied this spot for centuries. Nerja's Castle was part of a after Reconquista forces Oh! That's right. You don't come to the you come for fun-in-the-Sun And relax is what countless Nerja's expats are mostly British. Like many along this coast, they actually try not to integrate. They enjoy their English TV and radio and many barely learn a word of Spanish. (cheerful guitar music) Nerja has several well-equipped beaches. The one just below town retains Fishermen do their thing The humble cottage evokes a bygone day. Spaniards love their A short hike takes us to a broader beach that appeals to different tastes. While it's packed through the summer, we're here in May when the Ayo's Place is famous for its beachside For 30 years he's been cooking up this classic Spanish specialty. To create this culinary work of art, start with some junk pallets for fuel and slip on your handmade heat shields. Then fry up as many pieces of Add just a pinch of garlic and about a week's pays worth of saffron. When the chicken is golden brown, add a dozen skinned tomatoes and as many red and green peppers Stir everything with a clean shovel. Now add a laundry bin of arboreal rice and just a dash of smoked sweet pimentos. Stir briskly until the the oils and spices. Add a few gallons of Add another pallet if necessary. Mix in a boatload of fresh whole shrimp. When the rice is done, remove, remembering to lift with your knees, and let set for 10 minutes. Now you could just stare at but I recommend eating it Dish out servings daintily and garnish with a wedge of lemon. Feeds 48 hungry vacationers. Adjust recipe measurements accordingly. (cheerful upbeat music) A hundred mile drive back inland takes us to the city of Cordoba. (upbeat flamenco guitar music) While Granada was the the capital through the was Cordoba. Tucked into a bend of its river, Cordoba has a glorious past. While its old wall evokes a tough history, its elegant city scape show a modern pride. As is typical of Andalusia, it's a people-friendly city Cordoba's centerpiece is or in Spanish, mezquita. This huge rectangle dominates the tangled Medieval Grand gates lead to the courtyard. It was here, when this was a mosque, that worshipers would gather as directed by Muslim law. Entering, you step into a and graceful arches dating At its zenith, this mosque was in the heart of a cultural capital that rivaled Baghdad and Constantinople. A wonder of the Medieval world, it's remarkably well preserved, giving today's visitors Islamic Cordoba in its 10th century prime. The columns and arches as if reflecting the immensity and complexity of God's creation. The mihrab, the focal point was built in the mid-10th century. It's richly mosaicked with 3,000 pounds of tiny multicolored A painting in the adjacent when Christians conquered the Here we see the Spanish king accepting the keys to from the vanquished Muslims. According to legend, one morning Muslims in the great mosque, that afternoon, the Christians set up their portable road altar in what would later become As if planting a cross this grand cathedral was built Taking two centuries to complete, the cathedral is a glorious mix of Gothic, Renaissance and Baroque styles. A statue actually called stands next to the altar. Sword raised as usual, James Other art is less provocative. The Baroque era choir stalls With exquisite carving, it's considered one of the masterpieces of 18th century Andalusian Baroque. And towering over the former mosque, a bell tower makes it clear a place of Christian worship. In the 10th century, when a minaret stood where Cordoba was arguably It was a cultural capital with probably 10 times Imagine the city, the paved streets, lit at night by oil lamps, hundreds of mosques, (enchanted instrumental music) It was a city of poets and scholars. While things changed later, as this society was called, was marked by a remarkable and cooperation among all religions. To learn more, I'm joined by my friend and fellow tour guide Isabelle Martinez. So Jews, Christians and Muslims all living - Yes, certainly. It worked out during certain times, especially during the 10th century. - Three different cultures together? - Well, that's what most but I think it's more correct with three religions. Because at the end, all the people here cooked the same dishes - Okay, one culture, three religions. - Exactly. - Al-Andalus. - [Rick] Cordoba's narrow flower bedecked lanes invite exploration. With Isabelle's help, a simple stroll becomes meaningful. - Notice how nice and fresh - Yes. - It's narrowness and whitewashed walls. Natural air conditioning. - It feels cool. - It's brilliant! (enchanted instrumental music continues) So this beautiful chateau when the women were hidden from public. Muslim Cordoba had hundreds of mosques, but most of them were destroyed. But some minarets survived - [Rick] So this was a minaret first and now it's a bell tower for that church? - [Isabelle] Yeah. Exactly. - [Rick] Cordoba's characteristic patios have functioned like outdoor living rooms since ancient Roman times. They're quiet, an oasis from the heat, and filled with flowers. Locals decorate them with pride. In fact, each year many compete and open their patios to the public. And here, as throughout Andalusia, festivals fill the calendar. We're here for the Festival of the Crosses where each neighborhood parties around its own cross made of carnations. Church bells ring not but a call to fiesta. Neighbors pack the squares This barrio entered for they won and they've (singing cheerfully in Spanish) (singing cheerfully in Spanish) (singer singing in Spanish) - [Rick] Major square's I find experiencing celebrated by and for the (singer singing in Spanish) (dramatic trumpeting music) - [Rick] Here in Andalusia, seem to go hand-in-hand as the same passion and energy is put into long sober religious processions which clog the city's narrow streets. Trumpets blare a fanfare, and everyone runs to the streets to be part of the procession. Many of these same locals until late into the night. Others will sit down to a Isabelle has invited us to Bodegas Campos, a historic and venerable house of eating, for our own festival of And here in Andalusia, no special meal starts without Jamon Iberico. (diners chatter) - This is a special Jamon. - Jamon? - Jamon Iberico. - [Rick] Why does it taste - Because the pig lived outside. - Okay, so he's running around. - He lives in the countryside. It's free. - [Rick] After the Jamon Iberico, the plates just keep on coming. This place specializes in rustic food that originated and a few dishes have a Moorish influence. But if there's one common - Olive oil. - [Rick] Olive oil. - Definitely. - The finale, definitely is pork from the Iberian black pig. And what could be more We've had nine different plates. - Yeah, we love eating and we love sitting around - It's living well. - Yeah. It's Andalusian lifestyle. (cheerful guitar music) - A two hour drive west takes us into Andalusia's mountainous interior where the root of the Pueblos a characteristic string whether crouching in a ravine each town painted white to stay cool in the scorching summers has a personality and a story of its own. Zahara, set under its imposing castle, was a Moorish stronghold Its breathtaking perch that had to play hard-to-get during that centuries-long to push the Moors back south and reconquer this part of Europe. And in the Reconquista, Today Zahara is a delight to explore. The tour is quick. A church, a plaza, a and a grand view. The dramatic road linking the towns cuts through the Sierra This park is famed throughout Spain for its lush and rugged mountain scenery. The queen of the white towns Arcos smothers its hilltop, tumbling down its back like The old center is a delight to explore. Viewpoint top all the way through town. The people of Arcos boast that only they see the backs Feel the wind funnel as cars inch around tight corners. Driving is tricky. It's a one-way system. If you miss your hotel, you'll circle all the way around again. Under the castle and facing the church is the town's main square, which once doubled as a bull ring. Towns like Arcos with de were established on the frontier. That was on the front lines to take Spain back from the Muslims. As the Moors were slowly the towns, while no longer kept on the frontier in their names. The main church is a After Christian forces retook Arcos, it was the same old story. The mosque was demolished and a church was built on its ruins. (relaxing guitar music) Another short drive takes us to the biggest whitewash with nearly 40,000 people. While crowded with day-tripping tourists from the nearby Costa Del Sol, locals retake their streets and squares. Ronda is famous for its Its breathtaking perch, while was practical and vital when it was built. For the Moors, it one of the last to be conquered The ravine divides Ronda and the relatively modern new town which was built after The two towns were in the late 1700s. Part of the joy of Ronda lies in exploring the twisted As you wander among and exuberant flower pots, each corner reveals yet another surprise. This cliffside mansion comes And from the garden, an evocative staircase leads It was dug seven centuries ago Imagine Christian slaves up these stairs all day long. The landing where the staircase marks a legendary turning In 1485, Reconquista forces the city's water source, and within 10 days, thirsty At the base of the town is the old bridge, some surviving bits of the and the remains of what was for centuries the main gate to the walled city. Back when Ronda was a fortified you entered from here. And according to Moorish you'd wash and pray. That's why there was a just outside the gate. (relaxing guitar music) I stay right in the old town action. Hotel San Gabrielle has great character. It's well run with inviting public rooms and bedrooms that make And just over the bridge, the newer town, while more stately, has equally Strolling the streets, you feel where everyone seems to know everyone. (upbeat music) While I generally go tonight a local friend's Tragata Tapas puts a contemporary We are just eating our way through the entire list of daily specials. Sure, you'll find your olives and ham, but you'll also enjoy asparagus snowed in with Manchego cheese, delicate cod cheek sandwiches, and spicy puled pork. One basic rule is the same everywhere. If you want a chance grab a stool at the bar. (diners chattering) (somber upbeat flamenco music) - Ronda is near and dear to Spaniards as the birthplace of modern bull fighting. It has the first great Spanish Visitors can imagine confronting the bull as it thunders into the ring. The arena's columns corral the action, creating a kind of Neoclassical theater. Bull fighting originated as refined knights fighting the It evolved to the spectacle While controversial to aficionados insist bull it's an art form. (relaxing upbeat music) And the Museum of Bull Fighting Matadors in their suits Etchings by the great Spanish he was clearly an enthusiast. The museum feels like a In the 18th century, Romero established the rules After Ronda, we wind out of the Andalusian for a visit to England's Gibraltar stands like a fortress, the gateway to the Mediterranean. A stubborn little piece of Old England, it's one of the last that at one time controlled The rock itself seems to And as if to remind visitors and entered the United Kingdom, international flights which runs along the border. Car traffic has to stop for each plane. Still, entering Gibraltar than back when Frankel From the late 1960s until the '80s, the only way in was by sea or air. Now you just have to wait and Bob's your uncle. (cheerful music) The sea once reached these ramparts. A modern development grows into the harbor and today half the city is Gibraltar's Old Town is long and skinny with one main street. Gibraltarians are a proud bunch. Remaining steadfastly loyal to Britain, its 30,000 residents vote overwhelmingly to continue as a self-governing Within a generation, the economy has gone from to one based on tourism. But it's much more than Gibraltar is a crossroads community with a jumble of Muslims, joining the English and at the base of this mighty rock. With its strategic setting, Gibraltar has an and remnants of its martial (victorious cheerful music) The rock is honeycombed with tunnels. Many were blasted out by the During World War II, Britain drilled 30 more miles of tunnels. The hundred-ton gun is one of many cannon that both protected Gibraltar in the Strait. A cable car whisks visitors from downtown to the rock's 1,400 foot summit. From the top of the rock, Spain's Costa del Sol arcs eastward, and 15 miles across the the shores of Morocco beckon. These cliffs and those over in Africa created what ancient societies in the Mediterranean world For centuries, they were the foreboding (playful music) Descending the rock, you'll meet the famous apes of Gibraltar. 200 of these mischief And with all the visitors, they're bold and they get their way. Yeah, you can have it. You can have it. You can. Here on the Rock of Gibraltar, the locals are very friendly Legend has it that as long the British will stay in Gibraltar. (relaxing upbeat music) Sweeping north from this in a couple of hours we're in my vote for the most exciting single city to experience in Andalusia. Seville, or Sevilla, as they say here, is the biggest city in Andalusia and packed with sightseeing fun. Walking it streets, you're immersed in a flamboyant city of like Carmen and Don Juan, where bull fighting is and where little girls to become flamenco dancers. Seville has soul and a Seville was Europe's in the 16th century. It flourished during the Age of Discovery. The explorers Christopher and Amerigo Vespucci all The golden tower was the for trade with the New World. For centuries part of the it came with a heavy chain to protect the harbor. In the 16th century, Seville's Golden Age was In the 17th century, all that money made the city an important In the 18th century, and the Spanish empire crumbled, Seville's power faded. And in the 19th century, the became an important Grand tour of Europe. In the 20th century, 1992 to be exact, Seville hosted a World's today's striking 21st Dramatic bridges, a and even a new airport. Today, with 700,000 people, it's Spain's fourth largest city, an exuberant Andalusian capital. (singing in Spanish) - [Rick] But the charm of in its traditions like flamenco. Spaniards consider Andalusia While impromptu flamenco in old world bars, most tourists The men do most of the (clapping rhythmically) - Hey! - [Rick] The women and a smooth dramatic step. (dramatic guitar music) Flamenco guitarists, with their lightning are among the best in the world. (castanets clapping) The intricate rhythms are set by castanets and hand clapping. (singing in Spanish) - [Rick] In the raspy you'll hear echoes of the an evocative reminder of (rhythmic clapping) (audience cheers and applauds) (relaxing guitar music) - The town square is Plaza Nueva. It honors King Ferdinand the Third, fondly remembered for freeing in the 13th century. From here, wander into Seville's which Spaniards prefer This is the place for But I wouldn't know my without a little local help. My friend and local tour has agreed to be my personal shopper. So there's all these Isn't it just for tourists - No way! These are for locals. We love our things. We have preserved our - So these traditions are healthy? - Completely! This is one of my favorite shops. Buenos Dias! - [Rick] Hello. (cheerful upbeat music) (shoppers chatter) - Here. Now let me show you the three most traditional accessories that women wear in Spain. Shawls, mantillas, and fans. Starting with the shawls Big display of beautiful which are very practical for us too. We would use them as accessories, but they also have a function which is warming you when you're cold. This is what we wear on nice flamenco dresses to On top of the flamenco dress, You have to wear something which is a shawl. You can leave it like that. - [Rick] Oh! - It's more sexy. (shoppers chatter and laughs) - Here we've got the mantilla. The mantilla is another accessory which can be in two It's always combined with this clump, which is incorporated in and then we wear that on our heads. - [Rick] Okay. - The white one, it's only for the Feria, for the festival in April, when women wear them to Let's have a look at the fans now. As you can see, very different but they are mostly made in wood. Remember that Seville gets and women, all ladies use them, especially when they attend services. Very old churches, and they are cooling themselves like this. Sometimes you hardly (fan tapping) That's all around you. In the old days, there which is disappearing. But in the love game For example, you were looking at someone that you weren't interested at. (Rick laughs cheerfully) You can go away because But if you were really interested. (fan tapping) That movement, can you tell him something? Don't you think? Anyway, the most common (fan scrapes) - As we've seen elsewhere, the Moors left a distinct Like Granada has its Alhambra, Seville has its Alcazar. Built more than 600 years ago, this magnificent building still The Alcazar provides a a graceful Moorish world that might have survived but didn't. What you see today is done in Mudejar style. This was a Moorish style but for Christian rulers (enchanted flute music) This became the king's palace. Its centerpiece was the Court of the Maidens. It was decorated Mudejar The king hired Muslim workers to what was a stark fortress. They built what's considered in all of Spain. The intimate Doll's Court was Imagine the royal family in this courtyard. Once again, we see sacred verses in But the decor here is clearly Christian. You'll see animals, buildings, and kings that you wouldn't normally which forbids images. A century or so later, just after Columbus's Queen Isabelle built a to the palace. Anticipating a big business she built this to administer The chapel is dedicated to St. Mary of the Good Winds was the patron saint of navigators and a favorite of Columbus. This altar painting dates from and features what's considered the first and most accurate portrait on the left. It's also thought to be the done in Europe. The Virgin's cape seems to even the Indians. Like the palace, the gardens The intimate geometric the later much more expansive The gardens are full of tropical and, in the summer, hot tourists. I'm thankful we're here in late April, beating the brutal heat The Moors were relatively During their rule, shared the city peacefully. After the Christian Reconquest, Seville's thriving Jewish in the Barrio de Santa Cruz. Today, only a few peaceful squares surrounded by a tangled web of valleys survives from the days when this was Seville's Jewish quarter. (relaxing music) Explore, wander among whitewashed houses and rod iron lattice work. Regardless of who lived here, the design of the neighborhood Stay cool. The narrow streets, some with buildings so close were designed to maximize shade. Homes faced an inner courtyard from the bustle in summer heat. The Moors gave Andalusia its with only geometric patterns. In later centuries, Christians decorated their Either way, the tiles Residents here winter upstairs and moved down to the cooler - [Concepcion] These orange They never lose their leaves. - [Rick] And refreshing too on a hot day. - Well not to eat. These We just use them for vitamins, perfume, or that kind of marmalade - Oh, that bitter English marmalade? Yeah. - It's made with our oranges. - The Santa Cruz neighborhood Savor the simple elegance of Seville. The delicate charms of Santa Cruz are just a few steps from It's the third largest church in Europe after St. Peter's in the and the largest Gothic church anywhere. When they ripped down the mosque that stood on this site in 1401, the Reconquista Christians bragged, &quot;We'll build a cathedral so huge that anyone who sees it You could fit a soccer field in here. Everything is super-sized. The towering main altarpiece Constructed in the 1480s, it's composed of hundreds of figures. It tells the story of the from his birth to his resurrection. The choir and enclosure for more intimate services surrounds a spinnable music rack. It held giant hymnals, large enough for all to chant from in an age when there In the transept, four pallbearers carry the They represent the four Medieval Aragon, Navarra, Castile, and Leone, each identified by their team shirts. Columbus even traveled He was buried first in Seville, then moved to Santo Domingo, then to Cuba. And after Cuba earned its around 1900, he sailed all Is he really in there? Sevillanas like to think so. All that survives of Moorish its courtyard of orange The tower offers a brief sitting on a Roman foundation, a long Moorish period The Moors built its spiraling ramp to accommodate a rider on horseback. Somebody climbed this to call Seville's Muslims to prayer. Today, tourists gallop (relaxing enchanted music) And the former minaret functions as the cathedral's bell tower. It's topped with a bronze weather vein, a statute that symbolizes Perhaps the most famous of religious icons in this very religious city, can be found in the nearby Grab a pew and study the weeping virgin. She's a 17th century doll, complete with articulated She's even dressed with underclothes. With crystal teardrops, somewhere between ecstasy Seville's Semana Santa, are the most magnificent in Spain. During the week leading up to Easter, the city's packed with pilgrims witnessing grand processions, carrying elaborate floats The two most impressive are parked behind the altar. The biggest float, slathered in gold leaf, shows the sentencing of Christ. Pontius Pilate is about to wash his hands. His wife cries as a man While pious Sevillian relays of 48 men carry on the backs of their necks. Only their feet show as they shuffle through the streets from about midnight until each Good Friday. This float with the weeping placed regally in the center It's festooned with wax It seems fragile. All silver and candles. Locals explain it's strong while delicate enough to quiver (relaxing enchanted music) Have you actually seen this - The Queen of the City, you mean? - [Rick] Yes. - Of course. She even wears her crown. And that day she looks When she goes through the They can't explain all or they cry or they throw - What's so special about - She knows everything about us because we have been telling Her name is Hope, which - [Rick] With all this religiosity, it's no surprise that letting loose in vibrant festivals. And we're here for the biggest For seven days each April, is packed into its vast fairgrounds. The fair feels friendly, The Andalusian passion (singing in Spanish) - [Rick] And sherry is clear. Riders are ramrod straight, colorfully clad senoritas and everyone's drinking sherry spritzers. Women sport outlandish dresses that would look clownish all alone, but somehow brilliant here in mass. As in spring fairs throughout Andalusia, countless casetas line the lanes. In these private party tents, Andalusians of all stripes To get in, you need to or make friends quickly. Concepcion's well connected, and as a friend of a friend, we're in. (crowd chattering) - My caseta. - [Rick] My caseta. This is your caseta? - [Sevillian] Enter la caseta. - Because of the exclusivity, it has a real family affair feeling. Everyone seems to know everyone in what seems like a being celebrated all at the same time. It's time to say, &quot;Adios&quot; and to Andalusia, where the celebration From hill towns to horses, and from inviting beaches from historic mosques and from religious passion you come away inspired to embrace life with a little more vigor. Andalusia is a particularly in touch with its heritage and enthusiastic about sharing it all. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, keep on traveling. Adios! Fascinating sights, sounds and experiences of Southern Spain. Ha, hoo! (laughs) Ha, hoo! Spain was a predominantly Muslim society living under Muslim rule. Here. Here. - [Director] Oh, don't poke - Take that. Okay. Hey! (crowd chattering) (seller hollering in Spanish) - Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of &quot;The Best of Europe.&quot; This time- (cheerful upbeat music)