. It becomes addictive very quickly. It's like a lightning strike through the whole body. Like an ICE train running through your head. It destroys existences. The drugs determine what you do: you have to make money, they dictate your daily routine. That's just being trapped. Crack, a drug wave in Germany. How is it changing cities? How do politicians and authorities react? The "Kontraste" reporters researched for weeks. To be honest, this is incomprehensible to me. Drug addicts don't look: What happens to my syringe? They don't care. Or maybe they can't help it. And then the children should play there? How stupid do you have to be as a politician to put this together? You don't want children to see a man's face being cut open. * Music * Leopoldplatz in Berlin-Wedding, long an urban development model project. Residents looking for relaxation, children playing and the drinking scene should be able to use the space next to each other. But with the crack wave, the place is reaching its limits. Public toilets unusable, traces of drug use everywhere. Addicts even use on the playground. The residents fluctuate between understanding and anger. They need a place where they can stay. But you also have to make sure that children are not affected by it. Before my daughter, I thought it was good that everything existed side by side. But it just bites. When I walk along here in the morning, people are lying here and sleeping. It smells unpleasant and...yeah. For example, there are also excrements lying around here. I find it difficult. The place has long since become a hotspot for the crack scene. That changes the whole neighborhood. (Reporter) And that scene over there? This is everyday life. Always in some corner. The tolerance of "there were always junkies and drinkers" didn't work. For me it's almost like an invitation: Come to Leo, you'll get everything there. The population retreats and complains quietly. That can not be. Residents see drug addicts using, sleeping and even defecating in hallways. Even the nearby cemetery is used as a toilet. The crack wave is also hitting the Wrangelkiez in Kreuzberg. Hey! It's me, hello. Hello! Hey! Let me! Residents have been sounding the alarm for months, demanding action from politicians. One of them is David Kiefer, a social worker by profession. In the entrance to his house he shows us remnants of crack use. Either there was baking soda in it or some substance, usually coke. Especially with crack use, people are difficult to respond to and are in strange states. A little further: A woman appears to be completely drugged. David Kiefer wants to help her. Come on. Sit down, please. * She murmurs. * Please sit down. Do you need any help? Do you need help? * She murmurs. * Here is your bag. Mmm. Take it in your hand, otherwise it will come away. Reached the bottom with crack: Maurice, 29 years old, homeless, addicted to crack. * Someone coughs. * Also cool, yes. Really cool. * Someone vomits. * As I said, you have to be really careful. You can't smoke more than one giant bowl at a time. By &quot;head&quot; he means a dose of crack. We meet him in Dortmund's Stadtgarten, a park in the center - and a drug club. In the middle of the day people are dealing and smoking here, despite our camera. Mostly crack. Give me... No, no, no. Wallah. No, no, brother. Hardly any other drug is available so cheaply and quickly. It is highly psychologically addictive. Maurice scrounges up money for the drugs. As soon as he has enough, he buys new material. Every day: scrounge, buy, smoke. You always have to have 5 euros for a head. Sometimes you have such a big head in the evenings. I paid 3.50 for it. That will blow your mind. Yes... Mike also scrounges almost every day at Dortmund Central Station. He is 26 years old and has been addicted to crack cocaine for three years. Excuse me, would you have some change for something to eat? That would be helpful. I only have 1 euro and want to get something warm. The money isn't meant for something hot to eat, but for crack. His yield after 10 minutes: just under 11 euros. 11 euros? - Mmm. Yes, now we go to the city garden. And then the money is implemented. Just a few minutes later, Mike can smoke his next dose of crack. It's like an orgasm multiplied by 1,000 - but it only lasts a short time. Like a lightning strike through the whole body. Like an ICE train running through your head. A kick that makes people poor. Pictures from a wealthy city, from Dusseldorf. There is a tent camp here, mainly for crack addicts. Images reminiscent of the USA a few years ago. This young woman does not want to give her name but says she has been living on this wasteland for more than two years. I had three training courses, had a job and lived with my daughter. That was really nice, a completely normal life. I would never have thought that if someone had said to me, &quot;In two years you'll be living there with rats,&quot; I would have laughed my ass off. But I find it sad when people ... make fun of what we live down there. That we're junkies, or trash. Why? Nobody is free from something like that. Maybe at some point you will lose your head and have depression. You don't know where to go, you feel lost and maybe you'll end up here. That can happen to anybody. You are not free from something like that. Instead of making fun of someone, try to understand why they are here. What is the background? The wasteland near the main train station is considered a retreat for addicts. However, one in which they are left to their own devices. The poorest of the poor lived here, according to the police. But where should we all go? Where should we all go? We live with rats, have no water, and can't shower. Sometimes I forget to get something to drink. Then I stand there at 4 or 5 in the morning and want something to drink. We don't have running water. It would be nice if someone would come along and put us on a waiting list... or motivate us to get an apartment, explain to us where or how we could register so we could get out of here. We've locked ourselves in here, let's put it that way - like everyone who uses drugs. I feel ashamed when I use drugs in front of other people. Or people who squirt with their pants down... When there are children or &quot;normal citizens&quot; who don't do that, we don't want to have that look at us. Some here come every day from the world of &quot;normal citizens&quot; to buy and consume crack, leading a double life between work and crack intoxication. I'm a crack user myself. I smoke crack. I'm not one of those people who completely sinks. I am one of those who hold on. There are only two options: you go under or you hold on. Maurice in Dortmund longs for his old life. But he doesn't want to have anything to do with his family anymore. She doesn't do him any good, he says. But life on the street has its price. For years without an MP3 player, without a cell phone. I really miss that. At some point you stop thinking about it and at some point... What would you listen to if you had an MP3 player? A lot of sad... very beautiful songs, but also sad ones, you come across that too. Most people here want to get away from drugs. It is also an issue among themselves. Maurice is constantly searching and often doesn't know what to do with himself. The big city sometimes gives you a headache. When you're alone for a long time and you see what you see... You're completely alone. I knew people who hanged themselves and jumped in front of the train. They cut themselves, whatever. He tells us about his child in northern Germany, who will be born in a few weeks. He plans to contact his mother soon. But before such a trip he needs enough drugs. I smoke myself in the morning so that I can sort things out. The crack wave changes the lives of everyone on the streets. They are united by their history. At some point they all got thrown off course. Like this man. He is 49. I had to watch my mother die miserably in the hospital. And then my little brother died in my arms. - About what? He had HIV and double pneumonia. It attacked the heart. I was always together with my little brother all day long, except at school. All day long, from a young age. That really hurt. That really hurt. He is addicted to heroin. Since crack has dominated the scene, the way drug addicts are treated has also changed. Sometimes you're really happy that you can talk about it. But with these people, they're all ... crack-infested. When you turn around, they steal the last of your things. Why crack now dominates the streets remains unexplored. One explanation is that the comparatively cheaper drug was more readily available during the pandemic. Michael Gierse from the drug help center also observed this. Crack is a substance that has a much more intense effect , makes people react more intensively, react faster, become dependent more quickly, consume more quickly - with a quicker urge to want to consume again. We're talking about intervals of 10, 15, 20 minutes. In principle, you can smoke crack regularly, every quarter of an hour. The high number of hits is also reflected in the cityscape. Because addicts often have little time to withdraw. I saw people smoking crack pipes here, in the middle of the city. It couldn't be more central: right up there is Westenhellweg, one of the most frequented pedestrian zones in all of Germany. 20 meters in and you are in the middle of the temple of consumerism. It's so central. Here you can get money: scrounge, beg, steal. Petra Meintz runs a fashion boutique in the Stadtgarten and experiences thefts every day. On Saturday another leather jacket was stolen. Several people line up outside and watch an item that is about to be stolen. That happened on Saturday. The one ran out with the leather jacket. At first I wanted to run after them, but then I didn't care. She has now given up calling the police. The police are investigating and this goes to the public prosecutor. Then a letter comes back to me: &quot;Residence unknown.&quot; People are let loose and things fizzle out. You can forget about an ad. The feeling of insecurity is growing among residents and bargoers, especially late in the evening. Like here in the Ratsschanke, a football bar. I gave you pepper spray. You always walk through the city garden. - Yes. How do you feel? Not so good. (Reporter) Are you afraid? - Yes. From what? In front of the homeless. So: nothing against the homeless. But I've often heard that homeless people have attacked people and stolen money and cell phones. Recently we had another one who was stolen from. Mobile away. The poor boy was disabled. It's not that great. Such a beautiful city garden, such a beautiful park. I have nothing against homeless people, but they don't have to hang around there. They inject themselves with drugs and attack boys. A crack addict says he was in prison 7 times. His name is Jan, 34 years old. However , snatching a grandmother's handbag is out of the question for him. I have committed crimes and make it a point to tell people... Many people think that every drug addict snatches every grandma's purse. I have never hurt anyone personally. I stole alcohol from stores. Branch managers say I'm putting jobs at risk. But I know from school: every theft is taken into account. 2 or 3%, that's what we learned. That sucks, but I'm not harming anyone directly. Some addicts engage in drug dealing themselves to meet their needs. But organized dealers have long since developed tougher sides. I also did a bit of business myself. The scene has gotten so fucked up here. At some point it will bang. These are people who have been selling here for 20 years and have to let some little pissants tell them that they can't sell anymore. If they do, they'll arrive with a machete. This is not fun. Knife, machete, bat. Kick in the head. It's funny. A highly competitive market. In more and more German cities, social workers in consumption rooms are observing that crack consumption is increasing massively... and with it impoverishment. The rise of the cocaine product crack alarms the federal government's drug commissioner. In recent years we have had a cocaine glut in Europe, including Germany. There is a lot on the market. The stress in the scene, including due to Corona and social challenges, is also reflected in drug users. They are looking for ways out that work cheaply and quickly. In Dortmund, the police are taking action against dealers and addicts. Many consumers have a criminal record, often for procurement offences. One of them has only recently been free. The checks in the city gardens didn't deter him, he says. The mayor sits there, in the good building. He's stupid, he's moving the problem from here to downtown. If the cops clean up here, where can the people go? There's nothing up there, there are just streets and endless nothingness. The city of Dortmund tells "Kontraste" that there is still no concept for dealing with crack. But we are looking for approaches. The Frankfurt sociologist Bernd Werse advocates a well-developed network of consumption spaces instead of repressive measures. As soon as someone has accumulated several fines, the criminal liability will arise again at some point. People end up in court, can't pay the tickets, and may end up in jail just for drinking in public. Repression or let everything go? Both concepts do not seem productive. Because the conflicts remain. Back at Berlin's Leopoldplatz. The concept "A place for everyone" was once designed for 40 drug addicts. The number has long since at least tripled. Sven Dittrich has therefore founded a residents' initiative. Here he deals in junk and second-hand goods. The massive increase in drug consumption has also left its mark on his shop. It often happens that individual parts are stolen. But we put out extra things that are not expensive. We have to price that in. But it doesn't just stop at thefts. The crack wave changed the appearance of drug addicts a lot. Much more aggressive, much more misery, much more open wounds. Above all, more aggressive. Dittrich doesn't want to let this go. His residents' initiative calls for more social work and a better distribution of drug addicts to other places in Berlin. We felt abandoned by the district, by politics, by administration, by the police. We have been trying for two years to bring this topic to the fore and to talk to those responsible about it. We often had to hear that it was a subjective fear, that there was no danger from drug users: &quot;Don't worry.&quot; But the situation has worsened since last summer at the latest . This has simply become too much for the people who live here 24 hours a day. Sven Dittrich has no grudge against the addicts and sometimes gives a euro if someone asks him for it. He and his colleagues regularly take practical action to mitigate the consequences of drug use. The initiative does a clean-up every first Sunday of the month . The playground is included. Every time we find at least 5-8 syringes on the playground alone. A lot of people in the neighborhood don't understand things like that anymore. The social workers from the drug aid association Fixpunkt eV also regularly clear away syringes and other leftover items. From 10:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. they also offer warm drinks, sandwiches and paraphernalia for consuming crack and other drugs. Teacup? No, seltzer. Thanks. Around 300 contacts are made every day. Astrid Leicht, head of Fixpunkt, does not believe that this offer will attract the scene any further. The fact is that we go where the people are. If we managed to put our mobile or the container in some parking lot in the outskirts and people would come, we would have found the philosopher's stone. But for every meter that we are further away from the places where people are, we reach fewer people. The social workers enable addicts to use drugs a little more safely, and not only that. People use the place for many reasons. Of course also for drug trafficking, drug consumption, but also for social contacts. People are generally socially isolated and have their interpersonal relationships here. How much cash is that? I had 1,000, or 800 maybe. That's what you picked up? 800. Did you withdraw this from the bank? This has nothing to do with the bank. This is my money! Bench... you don't need to scream. Police chief Chinedu Melcher and his colleagues go on patrol here every day. This man smoked crack in front of the officers. Do you often go to Leopoldplatz? No, every now and then. What does every now and then mean? Every two or three days. The police found 800 euros, marijuana and paraphernalia for crack use on him. We constantly notice that consumption is taking place in front of our eyes. At some point it might be normal, but especially at the beginning you think: Why are they committing crimes right in front of me? It makes no sense, everyone knows: the police will punish this and there will be measures against me. A judge orders a house search. The suspicion: The man is not just a consumer, but also deals in drugs. We're going to handcuff him because he says he has guns in his apartment. For our own protection, we put handcuffs on him because it is too risky. On site, the accused becomes more and more restless and wants to break open his locked door himself. Chinedu Melcher intervenes. Why do I have handcuffs? I explained. Yes I do. - Be glad we did it in front. I won't hurt you. But you have guns in your apartment and you were aggressive. - When? Wait a minute. You were nice in the car at first. Then we talked to you, you got mad again. You're having mood swings and I can't... *Mumbling* Why are you interrupting me? Sorry. We go to your apartment and you say you have weapons there: an axe, a hatchet, an air rifle. Yes, but... I can't judge you. OK. - Hence the handcuffs. If you keep talking, I'll do it backwards too. It's enough. - Okay. At some point it's too much. And now. - Okay. Police! The officers search the apartment. Soon you will find what you are looking for. A hatchet, a knife, an air rifle and large quantities of hashish as well as a white powder, possibly cocaine. The accused comes along for identification processing. People like him can be perpetrators and victims at the same time in the spiral of addiction. Ahmed, as we call him here, has been an addict for 33 years. We meet him in a drug consumption room in Dusseldorf. He candidly explains how addiction has changed him negatively. Yes... from morning to evening. I spend every cent on this so-called crack. This makes me temporarily forget about my problems. Plus it takes away my withdrawal symptoms, all the pain I have. It lets me sleep and briefly forget that I lead such a dirty life and that I have actually lost everything I had until the 18th/19th. Year of life had built up. It costs a lot of money and makes me aggressive. Our whole family... After over 30 years, I'm slowly starting to cheat even on my family, including my colleagues and friends. I actually haven't done that before. I'll probably be leaving home soon. I can't do my job. At the moment I'm such a rat that I'm taking every last bit of money out of my family's pockets. Every drug consumption in the facility is statistically recorded. The crack wave also has Dusseldorf firmly in its grip. We had inhaled cocaine, i.e. crack, in our annual report for the first time in 2016 , with a few hundred consumption processes. In 2022 we had over 16,000 - a significant increase here in the drug consumption room in Dusseldorf. Behind the raw numbers are people like Ahmed. But search advice centers in Germany are underfunded. Someone would have to actively offer the addicts therapy. Even experts have come to terms with mass addiction as a reality. To a certain extent you have to come to terms with the fact that there are people who have such a problematic history and who have set themselves up in this reality of the drug scene in such a way that they will probably never come down again. It would then be more important to make it as easy as possible for these people to survive. Jan has wanted a way out of addiction for years. He has been taking hard drugs since he was 15: coke, heroin, and later crack. Jail again and again. He actually wants therapy. He sees the only way to get there behind bars. There is no freedom out here because the drugs dictate what you do: you have to make money, they dictate your daily routine. That's just being trapped. That's not freedom. Sure, I can go wherever I want, but in the end I'm staying here. In prison the door is closed and there is a bar in front of it, but there you can get clean, your body can rebuild itself and come to your senses. If they could get me therapy afterwards, it would be my first, I could try to live a life without drugs. Help instead of prison. The state must offer unbureaucratic advice and therapy to people who, like Jan, want to get out of addiction . Subtitle: rbb 2023 Kerstin Ettlich