- [Jared] Elizabeth Tower, is the famous clock tower that's In this video, I want to show We'll look at the different and, of course, the (electricity buzzing) (flash) This video is sponsored by Omaze. (light music) When the tower was first built, it was known as the Clock Tower. But in 2012, it was officially renamed to the Elizabeth tower. The name Big Ben actually refers to the largest bell inside of it. However, even to this day, many people still refer to Let's come over to Europe. This is England. Big Ben is right here The tower is actually part This is called the Palace of Westminster. This is where the British parliament assembles to help run the government. The palace is right along the This is Westminster Bridge, and across the river is the famous London Eye observation wheel. We're actually not too far This way, the Queen can actually see the Clock Tower from her residence. The tower was built in the 1840s and '50s, and it took more than It was finally completed in 1859. However, there were some and it wasn't until 1862 that the clock was fully functional and the bells could be heard throughout The clock was built to be which is difficult are more than four meters long and completely exposed A tower clock like this had It was the first of its kind. For over 150 years, Big Ben has It has survived two world wars and has come to be very When you see this Clock Tower, you immediately know that Look at the tower from only one that it actually has four clock faces, making it visible in any direction. The tower is 12 meters wide and 96 meters tall. At the time the tower was built, it was one of the largest but that has been By comparison, the largest clock tower now is the Abraj Al Bait in Saudi Arabia. The clock dials are also For the last 150 years, the only way to climb up the Clock Tower is to use the spiral stairs. There are 334 steps to get to the top. However, they are currently installing an elevator into one of the open shafts. It'll be used for maintenance Just a little too small for regular use, but at least there's another option, but right now, let's focus on the stairs. There is a door here This leads to an enclosed walkway that goes behind each There's not a lot of space in here. This is the size of a person, so you can get an idea for the scale. There are light bulbs to illuminate each clock face. They used to be lit by gas Go up the stairs a little farther and you'll get to another door. This is the Clock Room. It holds the mechanism We'll take a closer look Go up the spiral stairs even more and you'll get to the Belfry, which is the room with all of the bells. There are five of them. A large one in the center The four outside bells You'll notice that all of the When the hammer hits the side bell, it produces a music note, (bells dings) and the size of the bell determines what note the bell will play. Every 15 minutes, the Quarter Bells play part of what's known (bells dinging) Then, once every hour, these Quarter Bells are followed by the hammer strike on the largest bell, Big Ben. (bell dings) The number of strikes For example, at three o'clock, it will strike the bell three times. (bell dings) And, of course, there's You can go above the Belfry and see the bells from above. The Belfry, however, is You can take these spiral This is called the Ayrton Light. This light will be on are meeting down below in the palace. Let's take a closer look at the mechanism down below in the Clock Room. This is known as the Clock Movement, which means the mechanical It runs off of gravity, and I'll show you what I mean This type of clock is sometimes On a smaller scale, it's You might find versions of these in an antique store or If it has a pendulum that then it works very similar On the mechanism, there are When I say the word train, I'm referring to gear trains, or groups of gears that So on the mechanism, we the Going Train and the Chiming Train. These all have very The Going Train is in the center. This is responsible for turning the hands of each of the four dials. The Chiming Train is on the right. This is responsible for the ringing of the four Quarter The Striking Train is on the left side. Every hour, this is responsible the large bell in the very center. Each of the three trains There are three of them in Let's focus on the Going This is the one that turns The gears are only allowed This speed is controlled by the pendulum, the piece that slowly It takes a full two Then you have what's There's three parts here. You've already seen the pendulum. Then there's the two Gravity Let's focus in on just the Escape Wheel. With nothing to stop it, due to the weight down below. The two Gravity Arms will block the Escape Wheel from spinning. But if you push one of the arms, it frees the wheel to spin just a little before getting caught Now push the other arm, and the same thing happens on this side. If we switch back and forth, the wheel will spin at a controlled rate. This is where the Each time it goes back and forth, it spins the Escape The Escape Wheel is what makes that familiar ticking sound of the clock. (clock ticking) Right in front is three-legged fly fan which catches air to This rotation travels through the gears, up this rotating slanted shaft, and then these gears on top, They split the motion into out to each dial to move the clock hands. So this is the Going Train, which is basically responsible Now let's go to the Chiming Train. Every 15 minutes, the Chiming You'll notice there are These control the hammers The cables run all the There's a smaller room up These cables go up and connect above the Quarter Bells. Watch what happens when you It moves the levers, which then lifts the hammer up. When you release the (bell dings) Each cable is attached and these levers go right and you'll notice that these gear teeth are arranged in an interesting pattern. Once the gear is spinning, these levers are pulled and timing to create (bell dinging) The chiming of these bells There are five cables here, This is because one of the bells actually has two hammers on it. This note needs to be played twice without a lot of time in between. And finally, let's look Once every hour, the Striking This has only one cable goes through the Link Room, and then connects to the It works very similar to the Chiming Train, but this time, we're (bell dinging) It must be timed precisely so the first strike happens exactly on the hour. This bell initially cracked when it was first put into use in 1859. It is said that the hammer But instead of replacing the bell, they drilled holes in the top and bottom of the crack Then they turned the bell 90 degrees and used a slightly smaller hammer. This same bell is still in use today. The small crack is what gives Above here, you'll see the two fly fans. They work similar to we saw earlier. They act as air brakes to control how fast the ringing of the bells happen. Now, as the clock ticks, the center weight will Then as the bells ring, the outer weights will Three times a week, the This was all initially done by hand, but nowadays, we have an electric motor. This winds up the two outside weights which are the heaviest. But the weight in the this is still wound up by hand. Once the weights are wound up, the clock is once again There's no electricity needed to keep the clock hands moving. The clock movement is very but occasionally, it will drift off. Changes in the temperature or weather can cause the pendulum on the clock to swing too fast or too slow. To speed it up just a little bit, they will add one or more pennies to the top of the pendulum. To slow it down, they will remove pennies. Each penny affects the speed of the clock by two-fifths of a second In 2017, the Elizabeth Tower They built scaffolding up the entire tower to gain better access. They are repairing and replacing the stone and metalwork to ensure They are also restoring The clock face will once The renovation work on the tower is set to complete in the summer of 2022. This video is sponsored by Omaze, which is an online fundraising platform that helps raise money for charities. Along with helping out great causes, Omaze also gives away one of Use my link below and you'll to win a Tesla model X Plaid, fully electric, seats up to seven, and goes zero to 60 in only 2.5 seconds. You'll be able to go wherever you want with a range of 313 miles. Along with the chance you'll also be supporting GivePower helps provide to areas around the world They create these solar water farms which helps safely manage the water. The second charity is 501CTHREE, which also helps provide clean water for communities in need. Go to omaze.com/JaredOwen to support both of these great charities, and, of course, for your chance to win a Tesla Model X Plaid. My name's Jared. I create 3D animations to show Watch another animation by or click here to subscribe. Thanks for watching. And I'll see you next time.