Madagascar. An island off the coast of Africa. It's one of the most biologically diverse Almost all of its plants and animals aren't And when we looked at it from space, we saw a spot. A massive dark circle, almost perfectly round, over thirteen kilometers in diameter, and big enough that roads are diverted on Looking at it from the side, we could see it was a mountain. And if you zoomed all the way in, you could nestled in the crater at its center. 8 kilometers from the closest labeled town Isolated in a remote part of a remote It looked like it could have been there for But if you looked backward through time ... ... each year ... ... it gets smaller and smaller ... ... and before 2008, there was no one there I wanted to try to answer one question: Why did these people move to such an incredibly isolated place? I was really starting from zero here. I didn't know anyone in Madagascar. I didn't know that much about Madagascar. But the question was: could we get in touch with The closest location tags were on the edges and a historical landmark. But none of them were real -- they all seemed manga and anime series Attack on Titan, written The ones that did look real -- churches, of a presence on the internet. So we looked at content that had been geotagged First on Twitter: using the coordinates of Until finally at 12 kilometers away ... ... we found someone. A nonprofit worker who had posted from a nearby We asked if he knew about the village on the But he never got back to us. On Instagram, we looked for pictures tagged and found an aid organization We asked, but they didn't know. They'd never actually been on the mountain And finally we looked at geotags on YouTube. And there was a video. Geotagged right next to the village on top But, then... It was just more Attack on Titan stuff. Also written in Russian. After a while, it felt like the internet alone So we started reaching out to experts who had worked Experts in agriculture. And experts in biogeography. Madagascar is a country of almost 29 million fewer than Texas. A majority of the country's population -- over 60 percent -- lives in rural settings a lot like this one. But this village was particularly remote. If you zoom out, the closest major city is 18 kilometers away, with a population of over At this point in the process, it felt like we might need to take Maybe we could hire someone to make the journey Someone in Madagascar. That's how we met Lalie. Hi Christopher. Lalie runs a production company in Madagascar, She was down to make the trip. She started to gather a crew... ... make local contacts ... ... and figure out how to get from They weren't exactly sure yet how they'd get Or how they'd establish contact once they But they knew they were going to have to do Madagascar's hot rainy season. And early one morning in January, they went. This is Toussinah. This is Haja, he's an historian This is Jose, our very focused driver. And this is me, you know me already. As they approached the mountain, Lalie sent Until, finally, After traveling 10 kilometers by they made it to the top of the mountain. But when they got there and were about to descend to the village ... a massive storm appeared on the horizon. And they had to turn back. They got extremely close. But making contact with the village would have Which was ... ... in May. Four months away. Still, all the research we'd done so looked like. What Lalie's team did see looked green, and clearly extremely difficult to access. But there was so much we didn't know. Before Lalie went in January, she wasn't There's the small group of houses at the that we've kinda been interested in. So I turned to some very basic Googling. And I found an article about earthquakes in The article described how a team of researchers That's &quot;tomography&quot; not &quot;topography,&quot; because exterior, like a CT scan for the planet. All of these measurements produced this final With colors labeling the different ages and And here, in the center of the map, I could I pulled it into Photoshop, overlaid it with And it lined up with the mountain exactly. According to the key, that meant that the sometime between 66 and 145 million years And ... ... it was volcanic. This looked like a very, very But we wanted to know for sure. So I started looking for a volcano expert And that led me to Tsilavo Raharimahefa. He showed me a map from a detailed geological survey of the area. 90 million years old. Older than Mount Everest. The Grand Canyon. Vesuvius. This thing was ancient. 90 million years meant that this thing had But that number was significant for another Okay. Tsilavo is talking about this moment, right here. When India broke apart from Madagascar. Because these rocks are 90 million years old, it makes sense that the volcano might of continents. So we went looking for experts who knew more And we found Joe Meert. A geology professor who's written a the movement and formation of continents. This was a real crash course on volcanic geology, so I asked our motion designer Matt to help Madagascar and India happened to be located they're called plumes. When that plume reaches the planet's crust, As Madagascar moved over the hotspot, it burned and produced all the volcanics all over As Madagascar's continental plate continued those volcanoes were eventually cut off And without a heat source, they cooled and And then you're left with the plumbing system So that's what we were looking at: the collapsed that had broken up apart Madagascar and India. At this point, I had no idea what with the village we could see on Google Earth. But right about then, we heard back from another He sent us a link to mindat.org -- this is ... and it had a page about the mountain. Including its name: The Ambohiby Massif. Finally. We knew the name of this mountain on every other map we'd seen so far. And we could search for it. We found maps from 1899, 1903, and 1916, where the Ambohiby was always labeled ... the only one for almost 100 kilometers. That definitely didn't seem to be the case anymore. But maybe these old trees were a clue. We kept looking. And we found old reports. One from 1933 said that at the "highest there is a very open valley, called by the or &quot;where we find fresh water.&quot; Water. Maybe that's why the villagers chose to move there. The mountain's higher elevation meant it feeding these streams that flowed down the and making the center a perfect place for Then we tried to find reports that were And on Google Scholar, we found It covered everything from the geochemistry, to microscopic images of its rocks. And it included rock samples taken right next to the crater village. The paper was written by a South African geoscientist And if she took rock samples from right here, she had to have been in contact with the people living there. Mukosi was busy doing field research for the So in the meantime, we dug deeper And it told us what the formation actually was. An alkaline ring complex. Alkaline refers to the chemistry of the magma. It's the kind of molten rock that appears when India did 90 million years ago. I took this new term, and looked at In Sudan, Egypt, Niger, Russia, Namibia, Zimbabwe, The United States. They were everywhere. A whole planet covered in circles. The remnants of long extinct volcanoes. I wanted to talk to someone who could tell live on top of an alkaline ring complex. So I went looking for the most famous researcher of the most famous alkaline ring complex out there. That's when this caught my eye. The Richat Structure. Also called the Eye of the Sahara. It's an alkaline ring complex in Mauritania surrounded by Even on Google Maps, where it's littered with comments saying that it's the site of Atlantis. And that "nobody knows what it is!" But geologist Michel Jebrak He's done tons of research there, and even helped get an illustration Soil. Maybe that was why they moved here. This alkaline ring complex, formed left behind a valley with remarkably fertile soil. There was one last person who about the community living on top Ndivhuwo Cecilia Mukosi, the geoscientist When she was back from doing field research, One of the things that really caught us in fact that at the crater of the ring complex very middle -- do you know what I'm talking I'd missed this the whole time. Mukosi's research was published in 2012. But she had actually visited the Ambohiby Before anyone had moved here in the first So that was it. We'd been trying to learn about an incredibly And the one person who had formally had done so before the village even existed. We had all this research. And we were stumped. But now, the rainy season was over. And we finally had a chance to send Lalie Hi Christopher, we are leaving now. So we are heading to Tsiroanomandidy. We are now on the way. Lalie brought a whole new team, including scenes as they drove through the Madagascar Of pineapple vendors ... ... basket weavers ... ... and rice farmers. We are 1 hour and 45 minutes, approximately, Tsiroanomandidy. The closest major city to the Ambohiby. When they made it there, they picked up their A Tsiroanomandidy local Hello! Hello! Can you hear me now? He told me he'd climbed the Ambohiby many times. And even wrote his master's thesis on its water But had never been to the village Antaniditra. Just 8 kilometers away. From there, they could travel to interview people The crater village's closest neighbors. The crew asked them what they thought made this They'd met the people living closest to But climbing all the way up the mountain would Early the next morning, they set off for one last shot at reaching the village. What you see behind me, there, this line, It's the crater. It's like, in the middle of nowhere. It's a beautiful nowhere. But still. Until at last ... they arrived. So we are now approaching the crater. And they saw the village -- up close. Full of dozens of houses, livestock ... and But as soon as they drove closer, things became Some people in the village think that we are coming to take them guilty for something. We still need to wait. After two and a half hours, one of the towns We finally succeeded to find our facilitator. More specifically, they migrated from Manandriana, in the central highlands of Madagascar. A journey of over 380 kilometers. Like the majority of people in Amoron'i The third largest of Madagascar's 18 main Meaning they didn't just migrate to a new home - Now living in a place where It still wasn't clear why they chose this place in particular, somewhere so remote. Until they sat down to interview And they gave it a name. Anosibe Ambohiby. Anosibe Ambohiby. Anosibe Ambohiby -- or &quot;Big Island&quot; Ambohiby. So we had an answer about why they lived here. And why they had traveled all this way to It was for the water and it was for the soil. But more than anything else, it was for space. And it's easy to see why. In the entire district of Tsiroanomandidy, But in the migrants' original home of Manadriana, And for farmers like them, space to plant, is everything. And then the villagers took Lalie and the with all of that space. A massive field of hundreds of lemon and orange The citrus are a selling at a market. But to sell their produce at a market, they have to transport it The same difficult journey that Lalie Remoteness was the thing that first fascinated And it was a central part of their story. But it was a story that stretched far beyond Madagascar has some of the least developed with just 5 kilometers of road per 100 The majority of Madagascar's population But only a tiny fraction of that rural population usable all year long. Which means that almost 16 million people Having better, more connected roads means an easier time accessing An easier time building a better life. Hey, hi Christopher, how are you doing? We've been to the crater finally. They live in a very, very, very, remote area. Because, this is like the center of the crater. And the way they live in the middle of the crater it's amazing. But to access there ... it's not an easy life. When I was going through all the footage Lalie's I couldn't stop looking at this perfect And it struck me... Apart from a few photos ... taken with cameras hundreds of kilometers ... there's basically no record of Anosibe Until right now. With the internet, we can look at just about Some of the places we find might be made up. Or might be surrounded by conspiracy theories And some we can't learn much about at all without showing up, asking questions and letting the people there tell their story.