... maybe the only words you know of this you may have thought that he had no but when the passion of the heart arises, even also once fallen in love... Well sorta... Someone if ya know what I mean! Let's dive into In the games Red is obviously a silent save the day through, the guy doesn't say much who actually shows any actual interest in him 2 games and their remakes. But with the addition who came into the picture, Green. Prior to these as Leaf in FireRed and LeafGreen, due to Red being a chance to appear in HeartGold and SoulSilver. existed in the same game universe, but they didn't where there were some instances of them they're slightly interested in each other or even but nothing too crazy at all. Thats where the in the manga those 2 have some spicy the girl he's in love with. At least it's Leaf or Green might be who most of you because its the only notable female for him who's not apart of the games. Am I saying there's are things we can talk about, but if you know you know Green is second fiddle, I'm talking about the manga exclusive of Red and Yellows romantic history with each so special... *ba-dum-tsss* The shipping is known For those unaware, the Pokemon Adventures manga The first few volumes are labeled after Pokemon followed by Gold and Silver, Crystal, and so on. parts and characters, with the titles often Red volumes, the main focus is on Red, while story moves to the Blue chapters, Red remains The Green chapters introduce Green as a character, concept art for the games. Now you covered the character who was made for the series, as shown in now we have Pokemon Yellow coming out as a Story and spoiler time lads! While I highly different from the games and the anime, it still so actually the details are more important than can still enjoy the details of the adventures sum it up very quickly. Red meets Blue and Green Pokedex holder in their own way. Together, and Red eventually becomes the League Champion. there's a setup for the Yellow saga. Near Red is walking in Viridian Forest when a younger Red protects and saves her, showing care and a Rattata. Okay I know it's just a Rattata, but that Pokemon will always be our friends if is this little girl you may ask? Why it's Yellow defeating Giovanni and passing out, Yellow is needs to advance to the Pokemon League, suggesting they need a new Gym Leader to to do but promises to return as the best Gym After beating the league, Red went missing for two and trapped in ice. Before this revelation, and Red's Pikachu, Pika, went on a mission to find except for Pikachu, who found its way to Yellow Yellow showed multiple signs of having feelings missing, she was shocked and immediately willing him and was determined to train with Blue to save with Red, got so angry upon seeing him trapped tearfully calling out for him, ignoring Blaine's the ice, he saw a drawing of himself in Yellow's Lance and fell unconscious, she woke up in Red's effort and noticed their Butterfree's string shot Yellow freak out. Red even suggested they live Red didn't realize that Yellow was the same girl a girl, making the love entirely one-sided Red STILL doesn't know Yellow's a girl let While Red is recovering in the Gold and Silver and at one point Daisy asks Yellow if shes told it and focuses on helping Red. Red actually pushes to become the viridian city gym leader, whether little girl whos Yellow, or just simply we don't that adds to the fun here. But throughout the and later on during the final battle of the manga this off without spoiling some cool scenes because try not to show off too much. Yellow's identity of he SHOCKED. He kinda gets over it quickly because the shock would've lasted longer if they weren't after the final battle Red gets an accidental Yellow is straight up jealous and trynna is happening cause get this, Misty also has all the ladies of the Adventures manga, Red actually faces situations. Anyways Green looks like its going to happen and in and Misty she tells them that if they're confused, is a callback and a tease to what Red said to Another thing to note is that, since returning In the Gold, Silver, and Crystal chapters, deed had an egg, which Gold received, hatching trainers' future feelings for each other, while that agrees In the FireRed and LeafGreen chapters, Team Rocket considers locking them in the same wanna live together so badly just live together anywhere rent free at the age of 10! Another transported by Deoxys, and Yellow's fishing line Shot from the Yellow saga. Later, Blue and Green believes Red will keep his promises and return but still she trusts him wholeheartedly there in the Emerald saga of the manga, some Pokedex in Red's arms. Which ya know... In a kids series ending to this fight, but I dont want to spoil in the manga past the Emerald Arc. Red appears Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire arc, while Yellow this is where their story ends. Unless of course which if they did, I'm sure we'd be seeing adult anime, the characters in the manga actually age. is the one in love, but I think Red is also in all he says is dot dot dot, so some level of that like if he wasn't in love with her he would've about living together, but he didn't, he looks at and he held her in his arms, which on paper not lot! So if you ask me, this is Red's one true but it technically isn't confirmed to be so I that if I could. Of course Red does have other go over that another time, but for now I would say cute and incredibly simple ship, but its a story see the game version of Red, but just know if to see a whole nother side to this man that you video but I do want to send you guys off with so I'm gonna recommend Isha Kriya again. If or anxiety, I recommend you check it out it'll go as smooth sailing as the ship is between Red and a bunch of his many shipping pairs. Thanks