- First gear, second gear, fourth gear, sixth, eighth, twelfth gear. (engine revving) We're talking about manual transmission. You probably know the basic idea. The transmission changes the gear ratio to make sure you're from your engine to the wheels. When two gears are in mesh, an almost lossless In this case, a force is which is in turn moving For every revolution the right gear completes one and with equal force. Pretty straightforward. What makes gears truly useful though is when they aren't the same size. Let's shrink that driving Now it has to complete two rotations to move the right gear once. Well, that sucks. But wait a sec, the total amount of energy required to move the hasn't changed. But now the driving gear delivers over twice as many revolutions, meaning it requires at any given moment. It's like climbing stairs. Make the steps smaller but you gotta take twice as many. We've all ridden bikes, so you know what it does. But how does it work? A standard manual transmission is made up of an engine and that's the side that A drive shaft or output shaft, that's the side that and here, underneath both of those, is the counter shaft. And on these shafts are the gears. - How familiar are you - All of this has to do with getting the right amount If you like learning about torque, check out our Science Garage If you want to know about ask a Canadian. (speaking in foreign language) But let's get back to the gears. - Okay, it was about 754 years ago. - If I turn the input shaft, the gear on that turns this counter shaft, and that turns all of the But all these gears are When the gears aren't engaged, they spin freely from the output shaft because they're not anchored to it. Only one gear at a time is and that's because of what is these hubs. Around these hubs are sleeves. These sleeves slide over and anchor them to the hub But wait, there's more. Look at those tiny little teeth. Matching up those tiny teeth with the sleeves' tiny teeth. Well, that's almost impossible. So between them are these synchronizers. We cut the power to the counter shaft, let the wheels drive the and when we push the synchronizer ring, it gets squeezed against our gear and locks it to the hub, so it's anchored to the output shaft. That's why when you're shifting, you get that uh-uh. (engine revving) Now the wheels in the drive are all spinning in mesh. Voila, we've shifted gears. Some manual five-speed transmissions may have minor differences here or there. This is pretty standard for the most part. The big gear here, which is enmeshed with the smallest gear in the First gear is always gonna be the largest gear in the transmission, producing more torque for the back wheel. It's taking a lot of fast turning force and making one big slow turning force. The slightly smaller gear Then goes third and smallest one's fourth. On most four- and fourth gear is what's called direct drive, or a one-to-one gear ratio, meaning the input and output are turning at the same rate of speed. Okay, let's pop the shift and engage that big ol' In first, this particular transmission's got a gear ratio of 3.83 to one, so I can turn the input, one, two, three in exactly 0.8 times, and you can see the That's torque, baby. Pop it into second, and the gear ratio on Third gear is 1.4 to one. You know the drill. One and .4 turns turns it one time. And then as we mentioned They're turning at the same speed. That's gear ratios. Guys, we did it. (children cheering) Now a lot of you are probably saying what about fifth gear? We're getting there. Fifth gear is kinda and we call it overdrive. Remember how first or third Well, get ready for a low In fifth gear, I only need to get a full turn on the output. That's overdrive, which gets At this point, you're getting power from the forward momentum of your vehicle and don't need as much power going to your engine or your wheels. Some six- and seven-speed for even better fuel economy Oh, reverse is over here. Boop, boop, boop. It hits this gear, it spin the same direction Now here's the rub. The drive shaft's attached When we shift gears, the spin the counter shaft than the engine's trying to spin it. We have to take that power off somewhere, or it'll make a grinding sound, like when your brother's robot hamster won't stop body shaming you so you throw it in the blender with all the bad forks and spoons and press puree to teach it a lesson. So where do we let all The clutch. The clutch looks like this. The clutch has a disc with a high friction The engine is actually And the input shaft to the transmission is mounted to the disc. When the disc is pressed it catches and can drive the shaft. In the case of this clutch, it's squeezed by these springs and attached to a pressure disc and anchored by this pressure plate, which gets bolted to the flywheel. Most clutches use three springs, but in performance And that makes the and the flywheel even in high torque application. Like racing. And this is where things A diaphragm spring is under the pressure plate. When you hit the clutch of that diaphragm spring and which lifts the friction Awesome. Now we've disengaged the but we let off the clutch pedal and re-engage the friction disc, you're gonna bang, pop right into action. We don't want that. We want to ease into the movement. So attached to the friction plate there's these other plates These springs are attached to a hub and that plate is the one and that goes to the transmission. Those springs absorb the friction plate to take a little stress off the other parts of your drive train. You want to try to get on and off your clutch pretty quickly, or you might burn it out. (engine revving) That happens when the flywheel rub together too much. It happens. Usually waiting on a hill (engine revving) So what is a double clutch? - Rarely shifting, not double - Well, it's not really two clutches. Double clutch is clutching twice. Once when you shift into neutral to hit the gas and match the engine revs to the gear you want to go into. Then you hit the clutch a second time to shift into that gear. I always use the double drivin' big rigs, and dunking. I believe I can fly, whoo - Pretty cool. Thanks to honey for sponsoring this video. Honey is a browser extension that automatically scours the to make sure you're gettin' Ya know how you always get to the checkout and it's like, do you And you're like, uh, no? Well, say no no more. (children cheering) It's super easy to install. It's literally two clicks and it's free. You know how they say you gotta Well, that may be true, but you don't have to 'cause honey costs you nothin'. I used it when I bought new rear struts. Honey just patiently sat in the background until I was ready to check out. And when I was, it found a code and saved me mucho moolah. Searching for codes And it takes all kinds of math. Do I want free shipping or 20% off? Honey does all that for you. To make sure you're gettin' That means more money from egg sculpture collection. (glass shatters and cat screeches) And if it doesn't find a coupon code, well, that's because there isn't one. So you can shop confidently knowing you got the best deal out there. There's no reason not to add Like, now. It literally takes two clicks and costs you no money. Click the link below to for free. Or if you'd rather, type in Honey. Click this yellow subscribe button so you never miss an Follow me @bidsbarto and You like replacing your clutch, check out this video on turbos. You want to hear about a car with maybe the coolest transmission ever? Check it out on this Up Don't tell my wife I burned out the clutch and had to get it