Lieutenant It's been 2 days now, and not a sound no gunfire, no grenades, no shelling... nothing they've either deserted or... Lieutenant? Yes fix bayonets. I'll get the men ready ON THE WHISTLE! FULL CHARGE! OVER THE TOP!!! Ahh!!! (loud shouting) What the hell is that? It's a camel spider It's bad news mate. Lieutenant! (loud shouting) Hey hey! Shut up, shut up! Yes you are in trouble... Your up shit creek mate...C'mon.. Your fucked I know! Hold your fire, Hold your fire... Peter's! (unintelligible shouts) Look at him! (unintelligible shouts) What the fuck are you saying? Andrews! What happened here? (unintelligible shouts) shut the fuck up.. shut the fuck up! shhh (unintelligible shouts) Andrews! .... Andrews! (unintelligible shouts) Sir! (unintelligible talking) He said they were digging, found something something inside the trench tunnel the tunnel! (unintelligible shouts) Yep you're fucked now, you're fucked now mate I know (unintelligible shout) he said they took everyone In the tunnel (unintelligible shouting) Shut up, shut up! Hold!! (unintelligible shout) (unintelligible shout).. The tunnel! (unintelligible speaking) Those words (unintelligible speaking) he keeps repeating them (unintelligible speaking) black devil (unintelligible speaking) sit the fuck down, sit the fuck down In the tunnel They mostly come at night tunnel tunnel (Unintelligible speaking) ....tunnel! Show me! (unintelligible shout) Shut him up! (unintelligible shouting) Get him out of here! (unintelligible talking) (unintelligible talking) Yeah! (unintelligible talking) You shut your fucking mouth! (unintelligible talking) Andrews Peters Get me some light Hey Andrews being in a hole this dirty reminds me, how is your sister she good? about the same as yours mate that's not very nice shut up Peters (whispers) What the fuck is that? there's something buried in here bloody smells like it looks like a ship Ha, can't be.. we're more than 40 miles away from the sea (sniff) it just keeps on going.. and going shall we move forward? No let's get out of here right now I want 2 men and a Vickers! Anything comes out of this tunnel! Rain hell fire! What do you think is going on here? 10 years ago now in the Boer War I was fighting with the Lancashire Regiment We were reinforcements marching through some really bad lands We happened upon an old abandoned fort so we pulled up made camp I remember thinking there was just nothing for miles around I awoke in the middle of the night to screaming one of the men were being attacked by... something it quickly descended into chaos there was gunfire.. everywhere but nothing seemed to stop it it just kept coming back for us we'd had enough I'd had enough so we set alight to the bush surround it... flush it out nowhere to go you see And it was then I saw it through the flames it was a Lion a bloody big bastard black from all the smoke black as night it just stood there holding its ground looking straight at me looking straight into my eyes almost as if it were trying to tell me something and what do you think that was? that this is my land you've marched onto and your not welcome! what ever it is out there managed to wipe out an entire battalion in one single night reinforcements will be here in a week I'm not taking any chances Lieutenant the tunnel! Ahhh! hold your fire dammit! help me! hold him! get the gas chlorine gas GAS! GET THE GAS!! masks on! choke the bastards out! give it everything you've got! (unintelligible shouting) I think that's just pissed them off Peters... grenade! Get back! Ahh! (men shouting) KING AND COUNTRY!!! Come on you fuckers! (screaming) (screaming) (screaming) Back to the trench! (screaming) what the hell is going on out there!? GET ON THAT VICKERS! were fucked ha the fuck are those things ha! (unintelligible shouting) fuck off, fuck off! see that shit Leftenant ha! what the fuck was that ha! good to go! HERE THEY COME! (shouting) what the fuck was that ha what the fuck was it (shouting) (screaming) Jackson! he's gone! it's coming down move it! get back! get out of here! I've got him! c'mon you ugly fuck! (screaming) that was Andrew's.. fuck fuck they got Andrew's man! pull yourself together and guard the dam trench! Leftenant what are you doing? what are you doing!? oh that's a great idea Leftenant.. great give the Turk a gun awesome.. fuck me! Leftenant what ever your going to do, do it fast please! (unintelligible shouting) fuck get in, get in.. move, move! Leftenant! DINE ON THIS! (screaming) fuck!!! (screaming) go! go! (unintelligible shouting) (unintelligible shouting) Ahh! (unintelligible shouting) (unintelligible shouting) kill! kill them all! Ahh! Ah! it just stood there holding its ground looking straight into my eyes almost as if it were trying to tell me something and what do you think that was? that this is my land you've marched onto and your not welcome! (screaming)