- We're about to test things that nobody has ever done before, like flattening a Lamborghini climbing a building with the world's largest elephant filling a pool with 1 And to kick things off, we're gonna see if that brick wall can stop this train. This wall is 20 feet tall It's not going down easy. Give the orders. - Large cheese. - I hate you. Send the train. - Train us! The train's coming! - Will the brick wall stop the train? Oh my God! My gosh! So the brick wall might but later in this video, we're gonna see if five semi trucks can. But for this next experiment, built a giant ramp, and we're gonna see how How many buses will it jump? At least three. - I think it's gonna jump It's coming, it's coming- - It went through a bus, holy crap! - This looks like some - Now let's do it, but with the jet engines. I may have forgotten to mention that. The first car was just for reference. This is the real experiment. Here it comes. Here it comes, oh, it's going way faster. It literally knocked a bus over. It's in the side of the bus! - How does it keep doing that? - Hey Jimmy? - Yeah. - You can't park here. - For our next experiment - That's a lot. - We're gonna drop Tareq's to see if the Orbeez can cushion the fall. The only problem is, we Can I borrow that camera What do you think that is over there? - Yo, that's my car! Wait, that's my car! - See this iPad? This is your car in the parking lot . - I literally just parked Minutes later, a helicopter - Your car, baby! - Yeah, if I know Jimmy, he's - Oh, really? - Move it higher, move it higher. - This is crazy! - Keep going, a little higher. Right about there, that's good. - Three, two, one! - No, no, no, no, hold on! - Drop the car! - Now, that was sick! - Bro, that was a perfect landing. That was better than me, - Now let's see if Tareq's car survived. Open the floodgates. Chris, no, come back! There's a car in there! - There's my car, it's destroyed! - Hey, tell your bumper to watch out! It almost bumped into me. - No, no, no, no, my baby. - There you go, it should be fine. You don't even really need this part. - This is wild . - The best part is, that wasn't even Tareq's car. We picked up his car from in the middle of a random field, picked up a perfect replica of his car and then, dropped that in the Orbeez. - What is happening? This is not my car, actually? - No, it's a replica of your car. Your car is in the field over there. - I don't like you right now. - And now, we're back at the train and we're gonna see if these These semi trucks are massive. They're so big that I echo Raise your hand if you - Me. - I have faith in the truck. We also made crash test dummies with the boys to see what - All right, Chandler's is secure. - Do you think you'll survive? - Oh, I don't know, Jim. - Send the train! - Train, train, train, train, train. - Jimmy, the train is coming! It's coming! - So Tareq, make sure you There it is. Oh my God! Wait, all right, it might stop it. It might stop it! Oh my gosh, no, it snapped it in half! All that remains is train. The train tore through the semi trucks and could drag these for a couple more miles if - Oh no, my boy, my boy. What's happened to him? - Gosh, the arm's gone. - Well, at least you're still attached. - Let me see if the head's over here. He's right here, boys. - Verdict? - Train won. - Everyone agrees, the train won. Hello Neighbor 2 just came out and to celebrate, I built a in real life. And we're gonna see what by a meteor. And I made realistic-looking mannequins of each of the boys, because I wanted to find to survive a meteor hitting your house. You can put your mannequins Try to survive the - Hello, neighbor! - That's not real. - It's so hard to get I think he'll be safe now. - Are you hiding him on the couch? - The pillow's gonna cushion It has to work. - You're telling me if a meteor's hurling at your house, you're gonna hide up there. - It's gonna miss this section. - I'll be driving. - Let's see how many of the boys survive? Drop the meteor! - Oh, here it comes. - Oh! - That was only one of three meteors. Somehow, Karl didn't fall. This is what it looks like Let's drop the next one. And while we're waiting for them to raise the next meteor, about Hello Neighbor 2. It's an atmospheric stealth horror game about digging up your - That sounds scary. - In this video game, of missing person cases in the But trust no one, boys, everyone - Trust no one. - Not even Nolan. - Yeah, we have meteor number two, but this time, the meteor's on fire. Drop the meteor! - My car! Hello Neighbor 2 is available right now on PC, Xbox, Switch and Oh my God! - You're definitely deceased. The meteor's still smoking. - Wait a minute, I'm okay! - Somehow, Chris survived. - I am smart. We survived, buddy. - Chandler, on the other - Raise the last meteor. Chandler, you're now me. - I'm rich. - Drop the meteor when you want. - Drop the meteor! - Oh, okay. - Oh my goodness! - Goodbye, Karl. - Let's see if I survived. Yes! Click the link in the description to go to Hello Neighbor and buy the game right now. - And now you know where to at our house, you're welcome. For our next experiment, and mix it with that chemical... You get elephant foam toothpaste. In these containers, is 100 Hey, don't touch that bucket! Back up. I need you all to find a safe spot because this next explosion - Standing right here. - At least I'll be safe on the roof. - Dibs on roof. Wait, Jimmy, did we get all the elephants, so we can clean their - You're funny. When you pull, Chandler, you need to run. - I'm 100% in the danger zone. - Pull! Oh my God! Keep pulling! Pull harder! Oh God. - Look at it go! It filled the entire pool! It looks like the pool's on fire. - And that, is the new world record for elephant foam toothpaste. - Oh, it's steamy. I wanna jump in it so bad. It's the forbidden swimming pool now. - We're officially cooler than Mark Rober. - Yeah, and so is the entire - You know what's cooler than this? - Nolan's mom. - You know what's cooler than Nolan's mom? - What? - This is Dave, a professional This is a working Spider-Man suit, and he's gonna climb - Congratulations, your one foot up. Are your spidey-senses tingling yet? - Tingling like crazy. - This Spider-Man suit and the highest he's climbed Dave's gonna climb 200 feet and then climb 200 feet again, - This is nuts. - He's right there. - Wait, he's actually right there. - Are you taking a picture? I want a picture. - I don't know how far I am. I'm not gonna stop til I'm finished. - He's literally outside the Hey! Hey! - You're halfway there. - Sounded like they said halfway. This is insane. - Starting to rain a bit. Rain's really coming down now. Come on. - Whoa, wait, does his suit stop working? - Dave, do you want us to let you down? - I'm good. I've been the real Spider-Man many times and I don't give up. Spidey never gives up. - It looks like he got it working again. How's he doing this? - I gonna keep climbing. This thing ain't over til I'm at the top. I'm high. - Just looking over the ledge There's a reason this guy He's almost there! Dave, you're a monster, 400 feet. Dave, you are insane. Oh, he did it! Here's $10,000. - Holy crap. - You deserve this. When's the next Spider-Man movie? - I can't say. - All right, he's better than Tom Holland. And now the moment you've all been waiting for, hydraulic press. It's too heavy! - Can you guys move out the way? - Oh yeah, sorry. - Versus the Lamborghini. Let's see how flat it can get. And just like throughout this video, the boys are gonna see if - This is how you deal - The hood is the safest spot in a car. - I'll guard you, Karl. - Get to crushing! - Let's go, baby! - All right, well, Chandler's gone. - I'm still okay. - Oh snap. Oh my God. Wow, all the windows! - Yes! - Oh my gosh. - The tires are collapsing. - Wow, this is crazy. In case you were wondering, that Lamborghini doesn't work anymore. - Definitely doesn't work now. - I thought it would So to make it up to you, - Explosion! MrBeast, oh Mr - Hey, I feel like those