- Hi, I'm Alvin and I love cast iron. One day the about to eat team were talking amongst ourselves be cool to test out expensive and tools that we all liked. You might've already seen experiences through our five-hundred dollar and Inka's three hundred toaster video. Well, today I am going to with a one hundred sixty dollar cast iron pan for 30 days. Full disclosure, this pan and we will make a little bit the pan with the link below. But this video is not sponsored and I will be giving my with these 30 days. So going into this, I really had three big major questions. Number one, how does this $160 cast iron iron that I've used both performance and utility number two, will this $160 cast iron pan more because of its many features. And finally, what I have paid $160 of my knowing everything that I Well, let's find out. So this pan is from a I ordered the number 10 cast handle because you know... why not. first impression of the pan itself. It really is quite beautiful. I really liked the factory it's really smooth, shiny reminiscent of those professional kitchens. Visually it's stunning. It is definitely prettier but I was really curious if would actually last after I really liked that the pan of helpful information in the I think it really made using first time, a lot less intimidating. after giving it a quick wash and dry as per the instructions, I was excited to read that one cook in this pan was which is one of my favorite combinations. It says that there's already this pan, which makes it So I got a bunch of onions, cut them up. That's my new knife, by the way. And I heavily heavily for this pans, maiden voyage. This beef is getting nice and brown. And to use all the fond I then caramelized all Just basically a buttload everything's working, Nothing was sticking. The seasoning apply to the seem to be working pretty well. Honestly, it was just this new toy stirring and cooking onions for quite a long time. So after about two hours or so, that mixing these onions, adding the beef back in, my entire apartment just smelled I essentially had made kind onion jam, which actually tasted quite loved at a French restaurant one night, pretty pleasant surprise. And after cooking with the first thing that I did finished essentially, I don't know if it was the acidity from the onions wooden spoon or the But this pen definitely looked the shiny new pan from three hours ago. Honestly, that was kind of disappointing. I was like secretly rooting stay on, but I guess it kind you know, this is still a cast iron pan to clean this cast iron it's recommended to only that way you don't strip off like harsh dish soaps or tend to scrape that away. But I had a lot of these burns that eventually got a little too dark and stuck around for a bit. So I actually resorted taught to me by the very So instead of using this technique actually involves kosher salt and scrubbing the rough textures of the kosher salt, not only act as an abrasive, but also as an absorbing medium, it feels almost like when you're showering, it's gentle, but it does get the job done. at this point... as you can see, the pan does desperately So here we go, the way I do it, I let my cast iron heat on until it starts to smoke, at this point, you know, my windows are open. My vent fan is on, I have it another fan right push all those fumes towards the window. And after it's smoking, I wiping a very, very thin layer of neutral paper towel on this really, really, really hot cast iron while you can hurt yourself So there is also an oven method works really well. I do And I think it's just more satisfying. I'm not sure exactly what seasoning works the way it does, but I believe it has something heat reacts with the like a non-stick like layer. Some of the chemical Old bonds are broken down, I'm not exactly sure. Please trust a.edu website But after doing this a few you're rubbing on a thin repeating that over, the So as you can see, I got a little bit too little bit too much oil, which is why there's these the pan. It's not a big deal. It's not going to cause but the oil layer should really thin. So because of my schedule, I decided to cook at least one fun dish in my cast iron per week. Just to help me answer those beginning of this video. today, I decided to make tarte tatin, one of my favorite desserts to bake. And one that I've actually cast are in video on this channel. I thought it'd be fun to make the same recipe in this cast iron since I've made it with just to compare. So this recipe is pretty simple, sugar, and butter until it's smooth. I cooked a buttload of apples apples released their juices, then reduce down into this every single piece. As you can see, I've got a little too excited and over cook some of these apples. So a little bit softer than Then I'm just putting fanning them out, filling in And then after a circle of The whole thing goes into a really, really hot oven until that golden brown. This is kind of deja vu for it feels and looks exactly with my $25 cast iron. And once this is all cooled off, a little flip upside down you know, not as shiny or as but that's because I over cooking apples. I don't think the cast it looks this way. Cause the release of the tart very pleased with the performance good too. Exactly how I make it. So all in all pretty satisfied. For cleanup, there's actually quite a bit quite hard to clean off and I sponge under running hot water. And maybe because my previous but I definitely had to re dish as well. I mean, I don't really mind cause I iron quite honest. So I'll So it's been another week this time, I decided to pull it out to which is steak. One of the biggest reasons I retains heat really well and well, especially to things like steak. We're having this nice crust. It's just really beneficial to the food. After I'm rendering some into revise to the sear off, I was pretty excited to cook dollars cast iron is actually So having this new 10 inch finally fit two steaks at the same time, seems like something small. But to me it cuts down a ton of cook time. Essentially since these steaks really liked serving people on these steaks, not bad. I like my steaks medium rare, so these didn't spend more than two minutes total in the pan. And you know, while the stakes arresting I made a quick garlic herb Rosemary Sage. I actually don't like the because I think it leaves sometimes burn butter in the pan or prolongs the time of steak which could over cook it. instead. I just use a little bit and I like to brush it on top of the steak after it's sliced instead. So that each piece gets an even coat. One thing that I did notice after it is re seasoned, it does take back quite a good which makes it visually serving dish for food. So I decided to serve my steaks the pan itself. For me, it really made serving steak You know, that feeling where you go to comes at the table and it's sizzling and this cast iron platter, and you definitely have to for being able to give me that, that I don't think I would older pan. Another weekend, another So this time it's you can probably tell by now favorite things inside this cast iron, just to see how things go. So these are just brioche buns toasted in brown butter and sage, another pleasant surprise based the pan. I can toast four instead of just two, it sounds dumb, but it kind of feels like when bedroom and you realize that with that much more space, honestly, it made me pretty happy every now and then. I could also fit in two because before I'd only be pretty happy. for the beef. I'm cooking a personal blend short rib and brisket. And maybe because this pan is pretty good this time, but it was very, very satisfying to flip One huge standout for me is this pan just gave to the burger. I mean like it's this beautiful, perfect dark golden brown after that some American a little bit under a lid wire rack so that the One thing I usually find that in between each round of patties, I'd have to clean off any burnt before I could steer the next batch. That's my old cast iron and whole thing, reapply oil and reheat it, which caused me a ton of delays. But this pan, I was really surprised I could easily just scrape And just after a quick wipe ready to go. for burgers this pan seems to be really, really, really solving a The burger itself is pretty simple... Two toasted buns, two some burger sauce that I And to clean up, I think I could avoided one before re seasoning the I thought it couldn't really instead of just waiting until to give it a full four re seasoning. It's fun to see essentially So it's day 30. The last thing I wanted to cook a recipe directly from Smithy's website. And I've decided to try out a never made before. It's a ricotta Dutch baby pancake. So I'm following the recipe but I'm actually increasing there's this designed for two, six inch cast iron pans instead of one. So these are just some mass decided to make right before filming, but it's also really cool mainly done in a blender. I actually don't have a blender. So I'm using a food processor. So there's things like ricotta, and flour that kind of all get mixed up. So once the cast iron is hot, putting in some butter to heat as well, then once the butter is sizzling, basically in brown butter to me, I'm pouring the better directly still in the oven. And this actually reminds me made, where a liquid batter really hot metal vessel And I just really like especially cause the so crispy and appetizing, how to feeling those are So after the Dutch baby is done. The garnish is just some masturbated strawberries. And I think this is also another aesthetic of the pan The final dish appear especially because it contrast blue cloth that I had very easy release from the pan of the baby pancake, maybe it was because of the of those multiple layers of seasoning. I'd applied by day 30, but it was very, very satisfying to make Taste-wise though, I actually don't think Maybe I'd done something wrong making a dish like this, but I think I was expecting this kind of fell on the That's just my preference, but I did really like the strawberries and those crispy edges, I guess also making it in a 10 of crispy edge to soft custardy So that's probably why this inch pans for a reason. I think at this point I realized pan, it's fun. All those dishes that I'm cooking, everything is a little bit which is really cool. So after 30 days, the three major questions still remain. Number one, how does this the $160 to the $25 one I own? I think that $160 Smithy pan appearance. It has a sleek finish that even bit throughout the process And because of that, I did end up using it to serve not have served in my $25 pan. Question number two, will this $160 cast iron pan incentivize me to cook more with it because of its features. I say, yes, I definitely think this mini aesthetic appeal and its level with other cast iron that cook with it. I was excited to serve I was excited to see how look really nice. I was excited that it could buns and two burger patties. I did enjoy being like this I want it to make it just so faster. I was being better And finally, the big question, what I have paid the full $160 my own money, knowing everything that had been able to trial no, $160 is a lot of money. And I have a cast iron pan that costs $25. If I pay 135 more dollars I also expect it to perform than just from a pure I do enjoy beautiful things, So even though I might not money, just for me to use at the experience of using it and $160 was exciting to me. And I think if you're able I think that's a really, really, really cool thing to have because them quite a long time. But I did very enjoy my 30 days looking forward to many, many more. Thank you guys. I'll see you guys later. [Groovy Music Fades]