In 2008, game designer Derek Yu couldn't Perhaps, he should make a platformer. But, despite making a few prototypes - nothing So perhaps he should make a roguelike - you generated levels. But that didn't work either. His prototypes just didn't seem to add anything And that's when it clicked. What if he made a platformer - with tense But, like a roguelike, the game would have permadeath. And thus, Spelunky was born. And about eight million other games that borrow You see, we like to put games into tidy little Platformers. First-person shooters. Racing games. Puzzlers. We neatly categorise games based on things level structure, and rules. But, brilliant things can be produced when are mushed together. Sadly, it's not at easy as chucking a bunch good comes out. Get the mix wrong, and the result can be disastrous. So, in this video let's look at how games with success. I'm Mark Brown, and this is Game Maker's Okay, so I think there are three different And so I'll start with what I'm calling This is when a game jumps back and forth between So, consider Persona - which is sometimes novel-like life simulator. Or Uncharted, which quickly bounces between driving. The key advantage to this approach is pacing It can get boring to do the exact same type up the genre, you can keep players engaged It can also be used to make sure the gameplay - because tense RPG battles wouldn't make The biggest challenge here is that some players If you bought God of War for the frantic, you might find the slow-paced puzzles to be There are some solutions to this, though. Like, Uncharted does have puzzles... but they're In this series, the combat seems to be the find the most depth and challenge. The secondary genres are pretty much just kept super simple to ensure they don't upset Going further, you can make those secondary In Shovel Knight: King of Cards, you never to just focus on the platforming. In L.A. Noire, if you fail at these dopy third-person to get back to the detective puzzles. And in the Yakuza series, you never need to after you've passed the tutorial. You can also try to pick genres with strong will enjoy both types of game. If you enjoy the turn-based tactical battles assume that you'll also like the strategic Consider what sort of skills are required players to suddenly need entirely different I mean, a rhythm-based boss battle. Really? Another challenge is that players may be confused level. I ran into this problem with the first demo I wanted to include both logic-based puzzles, didn't always know if the level required thumbs. One solution to this problem is to simply In Grapple Dog, there should be no confusion stages - I mean, the door has a fast-forward in a sprinter's pose, the background is Another solution is to just change the player's the player for using the wrong ones. In the Batman: Arkham games, if you try to up, you'll very quickly end up full of holes. The final challenge is that the different for the player's attention, or break the Sid Meier discovered this when making Covert by doing various mini-games. Meier says that when players got sucked in and felt disconnected from everything else... they forgot all about the mystery. He says "You'd spend ten minutes or so, And by the time you got out of [it], you had One solution is to keep the different segments the main event. Or, to always have the different genres feed you make in your base will directly impact And the decisions you make on the battlefield That way you never forget about the other But the main solution is to consider the game's pointing in that same direction. In Persona, the games are all about your relationship And that's a theme that is strongly evoked simulator stuff. Okay, so the second way to combine genres This is when you can approach a game in multiple different genres of game. Deus Ex was designed as a mash-up of first-person can play the game in whatever mode you prefer. And in Skyrim, you can play with magic spells, The advantage to this approach is player choice You get to pick a genre that you like best, It's also good for variety, as you can jump it - and it gives you a good reason to play The challenge is that your game is going to a single thing really well. Deus Ex is brilliant, but the constituent like Half-Life, Baldur's Gate, and Thief. Designer Warren Spector says "if we get we're doomed because we're just not going So it's important to really communicate own play style - through marketing and in-game Another challenge is that you're almost And that means your resources get spread pretty The modern Wolfenstein games are designed tactical, and stealth. But Machine Games has admitted that it just to annoying gameplay like guards spotting In terms of design, another challenge is that a great deal of players will just choose one to try anything else. We see this when players quick load back to in Dishonored - instead of switching to a Designers should be careful not to compound in a play style... with tools and skills that Positive feedback loop right there. Instead, try giving general skill points that the player to re-spec and try a completely Designers can also give players an incentive In Hades, it can be tempting to stick to a for swapping to a new one. You can also use the narrative and context Perhaps Dishonored's judgmental chaos system there's no such system. And the entire world resets every morning, consequences, why not try something different? What you probably don't want to do is force making one approach impossible. In Deus Ex: Human Revolution, you can play is, until the boss battles which force you Even if you don't have the skills or items This was such a bone of contention that the Director's Cut. The solution here is to ensure that each play each and every level. Then, studios need to thoroughly test the there are no brick walls. Because if you make the promise of "play to feel betrayed if you suddenly make their The third, and final way to mix genres is This is when we take aspects from two different new. So Portal has cursor-based aiming and a first-person And it pairs that with puzzles from, well, Battlechef Brigade has knockabout combat from game. Rocket League is FIFA meets Burnout. The advantage to this method is the creation genres. And so we get wildly novel and inventive titles roguelike. And Toodee and Topdee - a puzzle game where side-on platforming at the press of a button. It can also be used to freshen up dusty old RPGs typically have clunky turn-based battles, from brawlers, puzzle games, third-person titles. A potential problem with this approach is incompatible. The Metroidvania Chasm is a good example. Perhaps the biggest advantage of the Metroidvania But Chasm skips that by pairing up with a procedural generation to make worlds that Another example is how the RPG elements added assassin fantasy, by removing instant stealth Or how the loot-based armour system in Marvel's theme. Did I just upgrade The Hulk's skeleton?! So, instead, you should use genres that complement Back to Spelunky, Derek Yu liked how platformers like how the games relied on players memorising And as for roguelikes, he loved the variety like all the cryptic commands and systems. But by combining the two, the positives of negatives of the other. Derek Yu says "Nothing was compromised to boosted the signal of the other parts." You can also look for genres with a lot of more easily. When Yacht Club Games mashed up a roguelike Dungeon, the studio realised that the two They both operate on grids, have simple controls, runs that start from scratch, and require It was easy, and natural, to put them together. So, there we have it. You can combine genres by switching back and By letting players choose their own playstyle. Or by blending together different genres to But whatever route you take, there are challenges The games in this video show that the problems smart about your design. Let me know your favourite genre mash-ups, Hey, thanks for watching! Did you know that I made a video essay that Platformer Toolkit, now available on Itch.io, like to make your own platformer - giving and graphs that drive the main character's Check it out!