This is green. This is red. And this is blue. But is the exact same thing as what I see give us a way to communicate and there's no way of knowing that what you see Even with the small steps and the giant leaps lot to learn about earth, life, and the human On the 26th of February 2015, one picture some saw it as gold and white, others there have been a number of repetitions of the in this case, sight, or even other senses, like These experiments remind us that there's no same things. What I call red might just someone out there who sees human beings with 71% of the surface of the earth is covered water, potatoes 80%, watermelons It's very clear that water is but we don't really know much about water. In fact, we've only explored 5 the rest, well, who knows what's down there? like the blobfish and the barrel-eyed fish belong The deeper you go, the crazier things seem to get. What's at the bottom of the ocean? But back on the surface, countries that "coastlines" to mark their territory. and the boundary between the coast So, how long is the US coastline or The answer is... well, we don't really know. Even the smallest deviations from and over time, these small distances add up. while others are miniscule. Now, measuring each so surveyors cut corners and straighten If you do a quick Google search of you'll find a lot of different answers. Humanity as a species though... well we've we invent something to push us through. We shelter so we could be safe from wildlife to money to replace pure bartering. But what about And music? Music has been described by scientists as It's believed that music helped our ancestors But did humans really invent music? Or did we just discover that certain sounds Birds sing, whales sing, even tree frogs So can we really say man invented music? If we I guess we'll never know. On the list of man's greatest inventions has scientists were sure that this is pretty much through the use of such a variety of tools, Except... we aren't the only ones who use tools. use tools for all kinds of reasons. A study change the definition of man forever. these chimpanzees used tools to gather So in response, would this mean we must use tools for the same exact things we Well, of course not. This begs the question, if using tools doesn't, it was also discovered that chimps had individual like emotions and sorrow. They gave pats messed around with each other just for fun. They and with other members of the community, and If emotions, rational thought, and affectionate In the past, it was thought that humans were in the past thirty years, extensive research In fact, in 2012, a group of neuroscientists which states that "humans are not unique that generate consciousness. Non-human and many other creatures, including octopuses, If consciousness, sentience, wakefulness, and then what makes us human? We really just don't today we are, and one day we will be no more. We don't know what happened before we were born, If a person dies and comes back to life, because we see death as a What if one of the beliefs of Even the earth itself can be you just see formations that make no and why? A quick Google search and you would prehistoric people to bury the cremated remains have done such a thing by themselves. But The same goes for the pyramids. Some people others are convinced it was made by human The human mind is everything. theories, and discoveries have all come from our mind before we can ever create it in the understand exactly how powerful the mind can I made an entire video about the doctors appear to give a patient treatment, but treatment" registers in the brain, perceives it Basically, the mind heals the body because even if it isn't. In research on social cognitive it was discovered that self-affirmation helps restore your self-competence and self-worth. it is indeed possible for your mind to convince And these are just the things we know the mind is There are a lot of things we know about animals. attitude, and the lion is apparently the king Not everything makes sense, and we really Going to space is one of man's greatest has clearly shown us is just how small There are at least 2,500 other solar systems that up to the tens of billions, we cannot know for and the Milky Way is just one of billions of It's so incredibly massive that are we alone in the universe? And if we aren't, have ideas, but as always, we don't know, A very fundamental question for nature is, why is there stuff in it to begin with? We know but why? Why do atoms exist When we die, what exactly do those At this point, you've listened to me talk for for everything with mass, time never stops. today is the present, and tomorrow is and where does it come from? Even more confusing There are so many things about and while some are deep questions like we've While watching the video of this person yawning, you also probably just yawned, so even more When we're happy, we laugh, when we're it was believed that laughter was a social tool currently happening. It was an evolution tool But if that was the case, then laughter should but it's not. Other social animals like dolphins And also, why do we cry? It's as if crying has parasympathetic nervous system and helps return It's a good thing for your body, so why We often cry after something bad has Is it a process that evolved solely for our Then again, we cry for happy reasons as well. Why are some people right-handed Why isn't everyone ambidextrous, We can have theories for many, many theories. In actuality, proving theories as a Many scientific theories are superseded or simply wrong. We used to think then one day, we realized it wasn't. Then again, view of the universe was wrong. I mean there's the German's attempted some advances under So, it is very possible that mostly everything Honestly, it probably is. We simply And that's okay. All we can do is keep asking questions and trying to uncover each of its hopefully answering the most important question