somber country [Woman] This road right here, That's a holler. Very close-knit family houses. Around 2004, 2005, more resorts A gentleman came in, bought [Peter] Like this one here, Eagles Nest? How much are these places up here? -They're very expensive. [laughs] -Millions? [Nick] Half a million for something small [Ivy] Let's put it this way, local people Well any of the resorts. It's kind of a local off-road area It's up here on the very top. They started gating everything up, [Nick] They're trying to Back in here on the top they want to own, down here, in front of here, behind the mountain. They already own When you go into I've done delivers in there before driving up the mountain for and I could literally see this road It blew my mind. You know how far away we are? When you get to some of these places, but when you're in it, it's right here. -So these are second homes 'Cause they're not -Some are second and third homes, or maybe they just come here We have people with tremendous Unfortunately, it's kind of That's even how we got was a rich man who and he donated that land It's always been -So this is a bit different or Eastern Kentucky. That deep Appalachia -This, you guys... So I've been in West Virginia. I've been to some of I mean it's nothing but empty buildings. We went a different direction with that. We had a lot of iron mines in the area. When that dried up, [Peter] So most locals now third home population, right? -Somehow. -Like you have to be? -There's a hug percentage purely because of tourism. -So it's good thing in that sense? -It is. Without it, we wouldn't have... We wouldn't have anything. -So what's the problem? -We don't have We have these two-lane roads. Very narrow two-lane roads might I add. We have three grocery stores -What county are we in? -Avery, which up here -[Ivy] But right now we're in Avery. [Peter] This is spectacular, you guys. [Nick] I watch the sunset here a lot -Yeah, so if you have the money, -[Ivy] I absolutely get it. [Nick] One of the things with some of the people moving here everywhere around here is like this But historically The people that live here, and integrated with the locals. Now you have a lot of these people that they're clearing out because they want Which I get, but at the same time it's not historically -Well, it's to keep privacy. Appalachian culture, -The people are more private or what? It's... Just like talking about earlier, it's a community, And not even that long ago, probably in the '50s and '60s, people relied on their neighbors... -For help with healthcare, everything. -And I think that's being stripped away. -Okay. So that close community, close connection... -Right. -You've lived here since day one? -Do you still have that? -I have it mainly because where I live there's not as many people -Okay. -It's coming I would say but I was fortunate enough to -Do you worry about that -Absolutely, I do. -That's a common worry in these parts? -It is. -But the question is who decides that? Who plays let's say ruler of the land that person can't live here? -And that's the Catch-22 with it. It's you can't tell someone And you know, if I had... If I had acreage and someone made me why wouldn't I take it? -Right, so a lot of locals are doing that. -They don't like the direction it's going and they're just gonna sell. -There's not really... There's not a... There's no other option. Like if someone offers you you're gonna take it. -Especially if you make less than $20,000. -You're gonna take that half a million. -Okay, then say Avery County So they're like, &quot;We're gonna go Northeastern Tennessee Then the people there are gonna be like, &quot;Hey it used to be quiet here, [chuckling] It's endless, right? -It continues happening, you know? However many years ago, Now everyone in California -Right. -At some point everyone in Texas wherever the next happening place is. [Nick] Around here your house, nothing, man, [Peter] That's awesome. Ivy, what were you saying about church? -I was just saying this area is... I mean Appalachian culture A lot of people that are local here maybe make fun of that, judge them. -Okay. And you know that's... -That's harsh. -You don't want to go -There's some really good people here. -Salt of the earth people around here. Some of the best people you'll ever meet, literally give you I've never been in -Nick, you lived in Brooklyn, right? -I lived mostly in the Bronx and Harlem, -So why'd you decide -Uh, I mean it's pretty obvious. When you look at crime with the prices, the crime, it's not a place anybody So I want them to know there's That nature is very healing. that there's places you can go and people actually help a lot more. These are some of the plants around here They just grow wild everywhere, these are a type of daylily, These lily pads, they taste like a sweet green bean almost. People fry them and eat them, There's tons of vegetation around here You got ramps, That's a leafy vegetable -That's something else-- That is an Appalachian tradition. -What's that? Ramps and branch lettuce Traditional Appalachian meal, soup beans, That has been gentrified in finer dining. -As in ramp butter, just... Get me some ramp butter -Well it's not ramp season anymore. -Of course it's not, I knew that. -You have to come back in ramp season. [Nick] All those names, [Ivy] Actually I think -Some of your family is in here? -Church, Jones, Guy, Baker. [Ivy] Guy! -[Peter] Guy, that's your family member? -I think what a lot of people is how deep the roots go here. My short time in Appalachia, three, four, five, six generations -No one has lived on that land -In this area... let's see, this is where In this area here. -I think... A lot of people... like where I grew up, So to leave was very easy. -I left at 17. -But I'm understanding in Appalachia it's very difficult because they have such deep roots. -Fair to say? Just in my case, I did move away But it's a completely different community, Like it's... -Different community and culture, how so? -Uh... [Nick] This is the high country. There's a difference between and places off the mountain. -Right, there's... different cultures Give me an example, Well, Roaring Creek is and it has its own culture. Their own colloquialisms, -Really? Absolutely. -So they could tell the way you speak, -I actually sound more like I'm from -And I'm not, but... -When you're up here they can say, -I actually... Yeah, a lot of people -You fooled me. -Yeah, I know, but I've always -Why? -Clearly it's pretty-- -Thank you, but you know, -Was I not made fun of? -Badly. -Badly made fun of? -Why? -Just I mean I guess easy target. -Don't most people -No -Some do, some don't. I mean a majority of the people but they don't have necessarily -So you were in and out So that's why you have You got a little Bronx going on. -Yeah, I got a New York accent Half South, half New York So it's an interesting accent but people can tell I'm not from here. -It's just like you see in the media, they're missing half their teeth, they're pregnant by the age of 14, It's like your stereotypical hillbilly. -Okay. -So no one wants to sound like that because the media has made it -Right, like Stephen Colbert -And you would never be able to tell. -So people work hard to not have-- -Right, because that's... It's not glamorous. -Gotcha. -And something I've prided myself in -So you gotta stay strong? -I mean I don't-- -But when you were younger? When I was younger, the bullying was bad. And looking back, You're from the same place. [Peter] This is Eagle's Nest? [Nick] Right, they've cut down This belonged to For years this was the same place, tore everything down and this is This is obviously old dirt road. This will be paved eventually Right now there's still So I guess they can't 100% [Ivy] I try to stay unbiased But this, I don't know, it just... -Look at the mountain out there, This is the stuff -Okay, all up on this hillside here? A lot of these hillsides, It's not unique to just here, and it's all in the last 20 years, [Peter] So this guy Nick, what is your job? -I do house cleaning for Airbnbs -So then your income -My income is 100% off of But I'll tell you the truth, I'm making money from them, But at the same time, I would rather... In my personal opinion, I would rather us Not have this huge jack up in prices of land, and rent, and owning things. I'd rather get paid $10 an hour than get paid $30 an hour -Okay. What are your thoughts on that? -Let's move so this one can... And they don't wave. See, the locals... In deep Appalachia, on the roads, -Here's the thing. Um, that's hospitality. That's... you're friendly. You wave. I think... and you can thank I think people move up here and they think that there's gonna be Um... [Peter giggling] I would like that actually. -Do you? I haven't in a while. -On a porch? Will you do it on a porch? -And I won't wear overalls. [Nick] I wear overalls all the time. -See that comes back to that stereotyping. That's the reason why I quit... -[Ivy] That's why I quit playing banjo. -Because that was another thing In Southern West Virginia I mean they would be -Now they would be here. But when I was growing up -There has been a shift in attitudes and maybe go back to the old traditions but at the same time and like she was referring to, that was kind of social su*cide You know, now you do see trying to get into some of the old culture but it may be a little too late, [Peter] Do you feel like -[Ivy] I think so, I really do. -There's a wealth gap, People are afraid of what they don't know That goes to the people and that goes to the locals. -[Peter] Good point. I've tried to be a lot better, a lot more understanding and not automatically judge them or to ruin the atmosphere, I try to look at it that way [Nick] There's probably gonna be people-- [Ivy] I haven't ever been up here. -[Peter] I'm your new tour guide. This was someone's land six months ago. [Ivy] Amazing place to stargaze and we won't be allowed up here. [Peter] I'm just gonna say -Mm-hmm. -How frickin' sweet would that be to have -It would, and I 100% get it, I do. I understand, unfortunately -But you would if you could? -I wouldn't gate it. -You wouldn't gate it -No, absolutely not. No. -No, I would want a little cabin. Probably no water, no electricity, [Nick] That's part of we do want to make money, nice things like these other people, at what cost is it coming? Because now we're losing access to land. We have a lot of land that's government -[Ivy] Conservancy. -Yeah. -The crazy thing is, it would be The reason why I say that Look at this view right here. You know, this is... They want all these views and I get it, but you know, The regular people So unless the land is protected, you can pretty much -That's the way it's going. -And even sometimes you have to get permission Even when I was growing up That's gone too. -You can't do that? -A lot of it's in conservancy or somebody [Nick] These people don't like-- -You can go to a campground -[Nick] Geez. -No. I'm not paying someone Actually I feel -Why? -I feel like I'm trespassing. -[Nick] We probably are. [Peter] I think we're fine here. -I mean I would say so it makes me... I don't know, it gives me kind of -Okay. So it's the class divide thing? -Yes. -Where you're like-- -This isn't for me. -It's not for you? [Peter] This is an old-timer right on [Nick] Oh, yeah. I assume that these people, all this property around here. -And that may have been and they just wanted to keep it, -Could be. Sometimes if the houses a lot of times they'll keep they'll keep [Ivy] There are some people and they fix it up. They want to preserve that culture. They want to preserve the architecture. They do. They want to preserve this area. [Nick] My buddy Jake lives over here, You got his brother his uncle used to live over there. He lives here. There was a house right here His father lives down the hill on this side of the hill. This is my best friend. -This is your best friend? -So Jake, the story is -Right. -Okay, and Eagle's Nest is right there. -Yeah, we can't really see from here, but their property -How do you guys feel about that? -Not to good about it. -They started in Banner Elk... Or right outside of Banner Elk and they've come all the way And they've just been And putting in roads and stuff, setting up and bought a lot of local families out. -Why did the families sell, -I guess so. I mean I think they were -Which I think is the going rate, yeah. -The family next to us, the Cooks, to fight over ownership of the property. I don't really know the specifics but one of the sons I guess, they had posted notes on the property and I guess it's settled, and they sold the whole hill over there. And they've put in roads, and you know, cleared it all off. -You grew up here? [Nick] How long has -My grandparents were up here, and then bought this up here and moved into the little house -Okay. -But we have older family I don't know the name specifically down in the woods that late 1800s, early 1900s, -Okay, so deep-rooted -Right. -What happened to the house? -We had an electrical fire It caught fire under the house. One of the breakers but I guess it malfunctioned. We tried carrying but it really didn't do any good -Aw, I'm sorry. -That's what the fire marshal said, -Okay. -Not Eagle's Nest. -Trying to go for your property. -Jake, so has Eagle's Nest Like do they want to buy your land? -I think they spoke to my dad. -Okay. -But I believe he gave them He really didn't want to sell it -But he would sell it if he got the price? -I don't know. -Okay. -I mean we've lived here and we all like it up here, and it's... When your family's been in a place so long I don't know if he just... If they were more than worth it or whatever, -How many acres do you guys own up here? -I think it's like four to six. -Okay. -It's not huge. -But it's right on this knoll, I mean... -It's really beautiful up here. -We've got this hill here, -The views are better over there. [Nick] Yeah, there's -But you don't cut the trees down? When they come in or they leave up some trees, and they put in the roads, that has no more shrubs, nothing So now the amount of deer are probably doubled where it used to be. So we have to do our fences and they have to be -Keep them out of your whole property? -The garden, you can't see it from here. -The thing's up but they're getting in it and everybody's had -Not just that, raccoons and stuff too. -You grow your own vegetables? We used to have three little fields They taught that to our grandparents Two years up, one year down. [Ivy] Regenerative gardening. -Yeah, rest the crops. So they had one down in the valley, and they would rotate them out. -So what's your take? Growing up it used to be and now it's like... -Yeah, it was like a community, you know? If a family was in trouble Bring you food, -Mostly everybody knew everybody. -People would build homes, you left space, But when a development and put up houses We used to go up to Eagle's Nest, and we'd lay out and it was really special It was one of the first things and they've put houses up all through it. They cut all the trees down, the lights going all night long, -[Nick] Drowns out the stars. -[Peter] You think you'll stay here? I mean we love the area. We are trying to stay here -You're trying, which even though -You feel pressure to... -What's the pressure? -I mean for one thing -Land tax has doubled, when? -[Nick] Last year. -The taxes were. -And that's not just us, 'Cause a lot of people were Getting out of the cities, Um, I guess just to Get the mountain views [Nick] If I remember correctly, they were encouraging people because that's where all the people were. It was like telling everybody, -It seemed like. [Ivy] There were a lot of these are the best small towns to move. [Peter] So TikTok did that? -I mean TikTok, social media in general. -Okay, like this video? [Jake chuckles] -Well the difference, &quot;This is everything you can do here.&quot; &quot;If you want to be in As opposed to this is an area, this is -The thing I'm worried about, is you have developments like the ones -Banner Elk, the next town over? They put a condo You can see it from every mountain around. -I saw that, -They created what's called the Ridge Law [Ivy] It's in North Carolina -They just put it right on top [Ivy] That's what you see -Before ski slopes, you'll see Sugar Top. -Okay so one of the benefits, if there is one for you guys. They all pay property tax -Right. -So how does that benefit you guys? Do you have better schools now -I haven't seen The last renovation they did -[Nick] They did do one recently. -They expanded the size of it-- -[Ivy] They build on. [Nick] It started before that. [Ivy] It started before during COVID since students weren't there. [Peter] So if they're charging you what are they doing with this money? [Nick] Good question. -I wouldn't really know I haven't seen any -[Nick] Roads still have potholes. They haven't tried to use the hospital the old one there. [Nick] The old abandoned hospital. -No updates to the Sheriff's organization, public pools, or local outreach stuff. -[Ivy] We did get a new pool. -There's a new pool in Avery County. A new one which is the county seat. A very nice pool. [Nick] Kids like it. -It's very nice, you can use it, [Nick] Yeah, pretty much. -So there's been a little bit Like let's use all of this money for three months out of the year. I think it's great -The local kids do use it, their friends at school go there. So it is used by local population but we don't know how much it cost. It's pretty nice, it's only used So, you know, who know? [Peter] So you feel, I'm sorry You feel... you're gonna see because even though you own the taxes have increased. -Yeah. -Is there any other pressures you feel Or is that it, -It does seem like it's changing. Um... Like I said, people used to They'd bring you food, check in on you. Yeah, they'd see We had the fire this time and-- [Nick] This is the second time -Geez. -Yeah, but that time they came in, People who've been here and checked in, bring food, check if you need clothes, And this time There were some families While we were doing our fundraiser, Nobody really came by or anything. It's just been maybe Other than that, you just don't have Where mostly everybody knows everybody. Everybody stops when you're going down the road -If you'd have one request would an easy starter be to wave back? -That would be an easy start, yeah. -That would do well with you guys, right? Get involved They put in clothes, If they are coming they can really just jump right in. And just see what you can do. -So even if someone's from out of town, -There's probably -You'd want them -Right. If you're gonna do it, go all the way. I mean you're moving and the community, So really enjoy it, appreciate it, for somebody We don't want people not to move here. I don't want to say that at all but if they're coming in, and the people, somber country [Ivy] Being from Appalachia, Like Appalachian tradition, Like our dead was in the middle -Your what? -Our dead. Our deceased loved ones. You had a cooling table dry ice under them to preserve them, and you received visitors That was a wake. We are very immersed in Going to cemeteries, -Right, I've noticed that, yeah. It's just a lot of goth ideas I feel like are in Appalachia. -What about the punk side? -The punk side of it... -Rebellious. Traditionally anti-government. Anarchy. You had your moonshiners. [Nick chuckles] You had people that would if they pulled into the yard. -[Nick] It's always like that. Live in your own way. Having your own ideas. It's a very punk ideology. [Peter] It still carries that? -It's quickly... it's quickly going away. It really is. -People like to be told -They follow authority a little easier. -Younger generations or everybody? And I think it's You see something on Facebook If you don't share this -You know? -You're not &quot;popular&quot;. -I think Appalachia's gonna go full circle That's my take because I think and I think it will circle back to that. -Like it will come around to that. Because look, I put my first video It's done really well. People are interested. People are super interested. -It's an under-represented and it's also a community that's been [Ivy] Stereotyped. -Through media and stuff, stereotypes. [Ivy] I mean we're not... Beverly Hillbillies, that's one of I've never eaten possum. I know people like my grandma did but it's a very embellished idea. [Peter] There you go, the cemetery [Ivy] Yeah, that decoration I'm not sure why FedEx is... -Okay, here's a taboo topic, Lot of people think Obviously not all That idea about the South, Appalachia. -Mm-hmm. -I'm gonna let you guys Nick, what are your thoughts? -Well, from someone you know, I lived in Florida, I've lived here. I don't think that that's a... I think it's a very I don't know where it came to be. Obviously it's some leftover relics and the way of but as far as I can tell, people... People in the hoods and people they want the same things, and they really and not necessarily what you are. -That's interesting you say that, -That makes sense actually. They're very similar, People think they're complete opposites with different clothing on. [Ivy] And they cherish their community. I think that there's I can see where people would assume that. Again, Confederate flags of being attached to racism. Most of the people around here, They legitimately and honestly A lot of people in this area, to keep their land. Um, this was a very poor area. There was a handful of people that As a matter of fact, I know there was. Overall in this area, no. People legitimately think That's how they believe. -The Confederate flag? They don't want it On the other hand, the last several years we need to remove the Civil War statues. We need to remove anything people have seen that So they're fighting back Because it comes back to that thought of Both sides push so hard for their agenda instead of trying and talk about their thoughts -So in a way, could be looked at -Where you have the two extremes? -And you guys are not coming at it -No. There is no easy solution. -What I would love to see in this area, I love the thought starting new businesses I would love to see clothing stores, more restaurants, [Nick] Yeah, a lot of the restaurants are... There's some very fine dining around here Don't get me wrong, that regular people go to but there's It's like there's nothing in between. [Ivy] The other problem I would just love somebody some affordable housing for local people. There's no rentals in the area. Land is very expensive, Local people to buy and build. It's very sad and I worry if things people who are, you know... Children who are in when they get older, what's And are they gonna be able to? [Peter] Nick you were saying you bought -The end of 2020, and we paid 150 for that, About 2,000 square feet, and that was what the market was It's always been like that. You'd have a house on the market it would sit for six, seven, and now all of a sudden, My house personally has already gained and I didn't even do anything to it. -In just two years? And that's what the Zillow value is. The actual real value [Ivy] That used to be the hospital, -This building right here? -This is now, -[Nick] Christian College. [Ivy] So you remember were -Yeah. -That was not even -Look at the vast difference-- -Also, a lot of people that move here do -Well they're from Florida probably. Florida, home of Number one is Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, -Fact. So this is where -Oh, right here? It is now... I think it's little shops and stuff. -So this is a tourist town now? -Back when kids used to still go outside, It was always popping here, -Back when kids used to go outside? -We were in high school, -Yeah, they had a half pipe -I've noticed that in Appalachia. All these towns, I don't see any kids. I was a bit naive, I thought it would be '90s style, BMX bikes, -Hm-mm. -Social media killed that. -You're not seeing much of it, huh? -Nah, social media has really Over here in the hollers is no exception. -So coming up on our left It was featured I think I don't believe it's haunted at all. [Nick] People say it is. -If it was it was people in there It's sat empty since about 1999. [Ivy] We needed it, we needed those jobs. -[Peter] The Lowe's Hardware? -What was the problem? -A lot of the people that were not local... A lot of the people that lived in resorts -Okay. -They felt that it [Nick] Devalued the property, -But you guys wanted it? -We needed it, we needed the industry. [Peter] Oh, there's that [Ivy] Yep. [Nick] Sugar Top right here, 'cause you got to go through security. The law to stop this from happening again Now you can't basically build -When did that happen? -[Ivy] In the '70s. -Those are all condos by the way, Like a one bedroom, two bedroom. A one bedroom, pre-COVID was $60,000. Now that one bedroom is probably $200,000. A two bedroom is for sure and it probably was $90,000. These cheap prices I'm telling you, the 60 and the 90, They've been that price for over a decade since COVID with the rush of people [Peter] So I think when from the outside, they're not thinking of all this wealth. -Right. -They're thinking of West Virginia, -You know? -But there's a ton -These condos, these are all probably now they're probably $400,000 or $500,000. A lot of them bought these properties... Not these specifically strictly for either flipping -We're at elevation 5,100 feet right here. -We get up to I think 55 maybe. -So Airbnbing is big up here? -Airbnb is taking over Not only ruining the rental supply, because when someone from $1,200 is not a lot of money but for someone who's only making it's impossible to afford and that's [Nick speaking indistinctly] ...or touch me nots. They have little banana-looking, um... If you want to call it they explode and shoot seeds everywhere. -[Ivy] I will not be joining up there. [Ivy laughing] [Peter] Yeah, look at What are these? [Nick] That's rhododendron. [Nick] Rhododendron [Peter] This is so mixed up in here. -[Nick] These grow naturally around here. -They call 'em mountain blueberries -Okay, what a spectacular view. Look at that. -There's Banner Elk right there. -Wow. -I see why people want to live here. -It's pretty obvious. -There's an abundance of beauty, That's the thing, but at the same time, like I said, And things used to always be and now all of a sudden I think that's what makes people -Okay, so it's the rapid change -Change in general, but yeah, kind of getting When they come people used to live off of things in here. They used to live off of and things like that. And when you have people that come in and develop it, all that stuff is gone. It ruins it for the people that may use it and also scares off the... We actually... I've heard stories The Blue Ridge Parkway when People in that area started seeing because when they were blowing stuff up with dynamite, a couple miles over. So those people had There's even a place there's Rattlesnake Den... Mountain. Like all kinds of references [Nick] This is the Linn Cove Viaduct. This is one of our One of the things people are proud of. It was built to keep the mountain in mind as far as they didn't dynamite -They actually built around the mountain. -We're on the Blue Ridge Parkway, right? [Ivy] They built with nature [Nick] There you go. [Peter] Okay, so when was this done, [Nick] With Roosevelt Probably late '30s, early '40s. -In that sense, there was more respect [Nick] Oh yeah, of course. It seems like a lot of times they always they always tried to have and I think that's kind of -[Peter] So this is all locals up here? My great-great grandmother Granny Dill was her name. -Okay, what was the witch granny? So, um... In Appalachia, you know, -You went to-- Like a hundred years ago? -I would wager to say -A hundred years ago -There was nothing. Even in the '50s and '60s was no electricity, no water. Um... Very, very primitive. So people didn't have doctors. Generally there was This was somebody who would go around help with illnesses. -Why was she called a witch? -It was just a term. -Okay. -Gathering herbs to make different medicines. -[Peter] So this like the local-- [Peter] The outsiders and locals [Ivy] There's some people that have but more or less, this is local. Again, more Christmas tree farms, -And your trees go -Mm-hmm. -There's been several in the White House. -Hey, a punch buggy. -Oh this is nice though, [Ivy] It's very beautiful here. Very peaceful. -Okay, so super complicated top... Ugh, Super complicated top... [all giggling] Agh. [laughing] Super complicated topic, and what were you gonna say? You had some final thought there. -We want you to come here. We want you to be part of this. Um, learn about Appalachia, respect it, and protect what we have here. Take care of the land. Um, it's a beautiful place, and we want to enjoy it, Um, so be kind, -Yeah, okay. Very cool. I've loved it. Guys, this started Kentucky, now North Carolina. Appalachia, I'd say this is From those locations. And it's been fascinating, it's very raw, it's very real, authentic. People love you Um... There's a sadness, there's a beauty. It's an amazing part So it's been an honor -You as well. Part of the country -Thank you for being kind. -Thank you. Got a whole other series, guys. Roughly eight videos now. Somewhere in this video Check 'em out. From coal miners, to drug stories, So thanks for coming along. -Thanks, you guys. -Until the next one. somber country