What's up guys welcome back to Dusttale! The undertale fan game made by Evan. Last time we beat the game but there were so many people in the comments telling me about a secret Pacifists route that you can take and I definitely want to do that. I guess it's not completely a true pacifist because this is a genocide game... But apparently there are a bunch of differences and it all leads up to something awesome. So we're gonna try it out! This is the first thing you have to do just walk past Ignore the dummy. We're not super evil. You're not gonna kill and I think the first encounter is here So what you want to do here is spare You can't spare. Okay,Let's see. Console! sure. You tell whimsun you're not going to hurt him. Thank you Spare oh And That's how it goes. I allow no mercy Wow Now we're here we can save and I'm pretty sure we can just take some monster candy. Because healing items are always useful here. And now if I'm right we still have to We can't flee and we can't spare is that how it is So, yeah, it seems like you do have to fight Like I said, it's not true pacifist not completely pacifist But we can fight a little bit against it against the genocide nature And I'm not sure about this I think this might actually not be the case, but we're not gonna steal any of the spider items Because they're not that useful anyway and There it is This is the difference. Look at that. It's a golden flower take it. Yes, you took the golden flower It's a flower. We're gonna hold on to that for now Ouch Now we are at the papyrus encounter Hello there you two it's still terrible but now he's about to steal our XP again. Run forward and kill him now! I Refuse you dare defy me There's not even any bones? Sans, how could you? the human..I'm sorry.. This is a super sad scene, but we kinda have to speed it up. Papyrus I'm so sorry I don't want to see this You're super cool(?), but it's done Actually Woshua Too many dirty souls. I don't think we can do anything Sparing is probably never Available. I still wanna check though It's red. It's not red You ran away? You know the drill Harvest all the exp. Okay, nevermind. We need to do it. No, Woshua.. We can't wash Woshua we have to fight You've betrayed all of the monster kind you're a disgrace and shame to call you his brother and now Undyne refuses to die as she usually does which is awesome and Now she's distracted Let's kill her now before it's too late I Refuse again. All right, then. I'll do it myself Look at that Look at this No its Chara like it's the Chara sprite I mean Wait, are we are we gonna stay like that? Your love increase to 7 What okay, okay papyrus, that's the same I'll figure it out. Oh We're back to frisk for a second I thought like what's gonna happen Are we gonna stay with that sprite but no, we are still the normal one And you know what? I again don't think this actually matters But we're not gonna let sans inside into the true lab. We will get the two Instant noodles because that's really gonna be important That's all right. Okay, so this is our inventory We still have the golden flower and then two pieces and two noodles. And yeah, where are you alphys, alphys you're safe We're just gonna ignore it. We're not even gonna look we will show Chara that we're actively still fighting against the genocide influence and Here we are. This is also very important Here lies Muffet But it's missing something Place the golden flower. Yes, you place the golden flower Rest in peace Muffet You find the burnt pan, we're gonna take it I guess we should still equip it there It is ten attack because the toy knife only is three and now a cool little secret We're gonna do the cool dance if you focus on the dark gray tiles, it actually spells out EEEE VAC - UUUU ATE Which I completely missed the first time. I played this evacuate. So thanks for pointing that out guys And bam, what's up sans You're stealing the love you're stealing all the levels But all I want to do is try to be as pacifist as possible. So I'm not gonna complain about the yeah. No No, I'm not salty sans. Thank you for sparing me the kill and We are actually here already. It really doesn't take that long. If you would try to speed through the game, which I kind of appreciate you know, it makes it easier to Experience this now and oh my god, we're gonna get through the intro. I'm sorry guys. I need to experience this once again I love it Well, here we are again Good to be back, isn't it? Yes This times different it really is different sans is as equally as determined Once you give up I'll become the most determined in this Universe I'll take your soul for a change I'll is set and you will never come back to this world again Is this really how it's gonna go sans We're not gonna have a mad time. I'm sorry. Look at this Look at the act button. It's rainbow rainbow is always good at undertale. We're gonna stand You stand in place. I'm stronger than even you now. Oh Oh, I do have to fight badapapapapapa I still know all these attacks sans There's no way I'm gonna lose when it matters most. The moon shines through the corridor stand you stand in place In a way, I'm going to miss this fight good against evil. Are we actually good this time? I guess we're still a genocider. We've done bad stuff. We're not completely good It's still evil versus evil *unintelligeble* bad bad bad bad, but stand you stand in place I fought for so long. Who knows what it'll be like, oh, we actually have to go through this one but as I know You only have to do it a few times and then when it goes invisible just chill. And done. do it a few times more and Then go down Ow! what?! What wait, what was that? Didn't I still have HP on that bar. What was that? Oh My god that was risky, but it worked out ok, I need to really try harder so Left and then go down. Ok. Ok, and we did it right now. It doesn't fade to read anymore So you can just chill. How much longer you stand in place. You know, it's funny in a way Do we have to go through the entire first phase do we have to go through the gaster-blaster attack? ah the music! Umm not yet. It still takes a while until it gets to the amazing part Stand What are you doing we don't have to go through the gaster-blaster or thank God why haven't you attack me yet? Frisk you Can't stop me. Oh, really? One way or another, he will die So if you won't do it, I will What is that is that frisk There's two of them exactly look at Sans' face, so this is frisk Sans? is this what mercy feels like It fades to black what's gonna happen We are frisk! at last the battle begins, okay. Wait, I only have one HP I need Last hope! you use the last hope 44 HP. Oh Hello. Hello there check. It's just me frisk Are we gonna save you though? I Don't wanna fi-.. yeh Look what what is your plan frisk? Come calm down I don't wanna kill use the last hope 44 HP That is the best part And we fight again we have to always heal I think after every attack, you know, we are one of the same right if I kill you That also kills me Okay, that's an easy attack so far. The attacks don't seem bad This is the cooking one And we'll heal again just to be super safe I always want full HP for a new attack Wait, no, it always heals back. if you kill me. We'll both die Whoa Do we just have to fight again I'm gonna try it Twenty! Nah, I always have to heal and then we'll both come back. Oh my god But I think those are safe points, that's pure determination right there I'm gonna heal again Maybe we have to use all the last hopes I'm pretty sure we can't just fight guys if I fight I die and it goes back to the final corridor I Just have to hold out until Chara gives up or something I have complete control over you. Waah! But ya see you only have to heal a bit because this is not difficult These attacks are so much easier than the dusttale sans attacks I'm even gonna risk it next time again But maybe just a little baby attack oh a Miss. I Have complete control over, you no, it's the same thing. Oh ouch. oh my god File accessed Who is doing this? What do you plan to do with We just deleted Chara, oh hello welcome back that's adorable But you'll never get rid of me frisk. EWWWW! EW hello you don't have enough determination Don't don't make that face again, please But Sans has determination! Come on buddy Heya, kid. I know things haven't been great It's dusttale Sans completely like back to normal. Nice. Nice guy. I've caused a lot of pain And I'll never quite be the same But you've cost some pain to a kid exactly. This is not true pacifists We're just trying to save the timeline here. Somehow it all makes sense. Now, you killed and reset nine times Before your friend here took over. I Knew something was different after that nineth reset Don't know if I forgive you but at this point I've done the exact same thing as you have I've killed everyone too. I did what I feel like I had to and Well, it finally brought me to a point where something changed But that's not to say I don't feel immensely guilty Because I do It's all very complex, isn't it? However, it now is not the time to dwell in the past We both know this all won't end until we stop your friend here And I'm sure you want to go back to the way things were as much as I do Otherwise you wouldn't be here right now Papyrus told me that everyone can be a great person if they just try and now I believe it I'm willing to give you a chance to redeem yourself After all, you've had a lot of time to think about your past actions So let's become better Together and let's start by fixing all this by combining our power Papyrus. I'm coming home Just try to stop me I'm gonna try Sans has like a human determination heart or what or what's happening? Look at that file restored filedeletedfilerestored fingslijrnjdfj 0.01 HP I don't think that's it yet. Is that it? File deleted. Oh look at that Aww the moonlight is gone! and it's back to some flowers blooming birds are singing and Sans is back See you in the next reset kid Dusttale My god, we have actual credits with awesome music by Evan Steblow based on undertale and with us tale universe, of course although this will have people in a way I Will of course go through all of the credits again Wow, this is so much happier. I really hope this is like a good ending right? I mean Chara, it's gone question mark? Do we do we just delete Chara or can we save Chara? Can we like also everyone just be nice can all three it just be best buddies Save the world redo the timeline and everyone's happy, please. I mean right now I'm happy Oh, look Luke, the game wouldn't be the same without him. He made amazing sprites all links for YuB and Merg all the youtubers Thank you for that my friends and family and my followers on game jolt. This is cool. It's like even even more special version of the credits and Of course. Thank you for playing dusttale god bless. Look at that heart there arrr is so cool the ENND!! Sans looking out into the sun, actually on the surface? No, don't tell me to exit I don't want to leave this amazing image. I Almost want to just end it here. Are we gonna have the amazing Undyne? *Sings along* we just did dusttale both ways I guess it's not really called the pacifist playthrough I think it's the rebellion or something. If you rebel against the genocide and Chara influence But you know, I always feel bad if I have to say it that Chara is the evil influence I kind of expect to save Charabut you know what? I'm gonna I'm gonna check if there's anything left. Oh No, there actually is some more okay, I do have to add this into the video Chara level 7 41 minutes new home. Look at sans there, hello buddy! Hello. And by the way, this is a new version just in case you're playing the old one. It's version 1.01 True reset sans did tell us to meet him in the next reset. I'm gonna do it It's fading to white again what's gonna happen though? Oh no sans No No, no, I want to go back But if there's nothing left if this is really the main dusttale ending then I'm gonna end it here guys Thanks for watching. This was the actual finale for dust tail and until next time take care and Enjoy some death by glamour