- It's &quot;Retro Time&quot;. And I dropped it. (man laughs) This here is an AGS one-on-one Now why am I showing The reason I'm showing it to you is because it has a similar form factor to what we are going to be looking at. What we're looking at is also That was still on, I think. No, it wasn't. No, it wasn't. Great. This is the Analog Pocket. They're similar in concept to and like everything else they've And that's why this is because they're not efficient chips. Not at all. They're very good at what they do. They're versatile. There's not a whole lot on here except for a nice glowing that says Analog Pocket which I guess is just So, let's get it out of here I've been waiting so long for this. They announced this console years ago, before short-circuit existed That matte finish along you can kinda see that there's and it's a little bit chunkier. This is the GBA SP and and it's about the same thickness. Actually almost exactly. The GBA is a little bit thicker. It's not unwieldy or anything. In fact, it feels really nice in the hand. Oh, I've got a banana for scale. Of course. Ah, now we can tell that... - [Man] Nothing. - Now the buttons, on the original GBA SP they're kinda cliquey. You can... Yeah, this one's kinda well used. I don't think the buttons They click in. These buttons are more like, what you'd get on a Super They've got rubber membranes. So, they've got smoother actuation as opposed to these just click, click, which I personally prefer. The only thing that has are the shoulder buttons and probably the start and Yes, those are touch switches as well. It doesn't look through the So this is a fixed lithium-ion battery. It looks like we've plus add/minus volume. Speaker on that side and So we've got stereo speakers. USB type C, headphone Jack and a link cable port. The same link cable port. We'll be testing that later. And by default it takes So Game Boy, Game Boy and it has cores for all of those. It also has cores for the Neo Geo Pocket and the Atari Lynx which is actually very rare. I've seen a Lynx once in person. In this case, this is a It's an Everdrive GBA. It's got one of these nice with games. These actually can put extra strain on these older pieces of hardware. So it's actually kind of a good thing that I've got it plugged into something that's a little bit more robust. It is a little strange to see the Game Boy Advanced Character just kind of hanging out back here with a big gap there, but when you're holding the shoulder buttons, it's a little weird. I could see that being If you have the dock, you And also I think it has so you could in theory, pair an 8BitDo controller or something. Although, there's no stand or anything, So that would just be bad. The screen is actually It's exactly 10 times the resolution of the original Game Boy. Which means that not only but it's a straight one-to-one scale. It's not going to be It's just gonna be. So, that's a thing that I'm But first, I need to talk to Vessi Footwear is known easy to pack, comfortable and And in order to keep you moving, Vessi designed their With enhanced breathability this style is perfect for the adventurous or for those looking Featuring a pull tab to take these vegan suede lace cages, and the same waterproof you'll wanna wear them everywhere. Keep your feet dry and save $25 with our offer code shortcircuit All right, actually I but first there's some that I realized I hadn't talked about. So there's the USB type C cable wrapped in this rather that I approve of. A USB type C to C cable is also included. Although I don't see a charger in here which may or may not be a problem for you. I mean, I'm ambivalent towards it. I can't get this out, whatever it is. (man laughs) Ah, here we go. Okay. - [Man] Are these stickers? Ooh. Let's just put that right there. - [Man] Got them. - Yeah, got them. (man laughs) Let's see. Analog Pocket quick-start Clean your game cartridges A lot of old cartridges are real dirty. It's probably got some corrosion on it and that can kinda spread to so you should probably clean - [Man] Like blowing it. - Spit on it. Let's power it on and see what happens. This is not an OLED screen by the way. This is a IPS LCD. It looks like it's got a tutorial. You know what? Let's do it. Let's let's do this together. Press this button to continue, Well, okay, let's go back. They lied. Press Analog for menu, This is a bad tutorial, you guys. Hold Analog and press left or right to cycle original display modes. Okay. So LCD filters as well as Oh my God, it's got an and it's not properly centered. Come on. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah blah. Oh my God it's huge. - [Man] That's what she said. - Oh, (beep) they've got a (man laughs) So it's got a bunch of systems. Game Gear is listed here even though Lynx should and Neo Geo Pocket. I'm not sure. There's a couple of different things that are built into this. So there's Nanoloop. That's a digital audio workstation So you can hook up to your computer and basically use it for sequencing. That's pretty cool. Settings. So we can change all for all the different hardware. Which is actually quite good because the Game Boy and Game Boy Advance had very different screens. And even the Game Boy color to either of those as well. And you can set the B and A to Y and X. So B and A is right here. I think Y and X are right here. Wait, no that doesn't make any sense. Okay. I was hoping that the would allow you to map to these face buttons that are here, but that's apparently not a thing. There are some games like &quot;Castlevania: Circle where it's actually, I think If I had an SD card with any I could probably go into the library here. But the library will not support They're very explicitly I literally have one of the right here. And the reason I have that a link cable to see if I can Yeah, that's a pretty bright screen. It's a little squished. I think the Game Boy Advance did have a different aspect ratio Okay. So analog GBA, that's just Yeah, that's nearest neighbor. It's sharp. Hit right once, you It's got an LCD filter on there that it makes it look pretty decent. It's not amazing. I don't think it's perfectly accurate. I don't know, it might be. No, it is. The next over is originally Oh, I just happened to have That's all the modes. Oh, that's a little disappointing. But I guess for the Game Boy advance you're not gonna want that Oh, that's loud. (game music) I was hearing clipping. I'm not sure if it's the volume. Instruments aren't amazing Let's go to the sound test here. (game music) Let's try &quot;Sonic Advance&quot; on Obviously you don't get on the Analog Pocket. Oh, okay. (game music) Yeah. No, that sounded about the same. Anyway, let's get back to see how that plays. The volume is much higher. Holy crap. (game music) That's about as loud as the other one was. The colors are darker, perhaps more accurate Fun fact about the GBA, so a lot of games actually So a lot of GBA games, even though they could look really good, look like trash on emulators or whatever, because they were compensating for this to try and brute force Okay. There is very little if any delay and the buttons feel pretty good. Okay, the screen is real bright. It is a little weird how it's not quite the right aspect ratio, but I get that they're going for the original Game rather than Game Boy Advance. I think statistically more people would favor the original Let me throw a &quot;Tetris Worlds&quot; into... I guess either one of That's as bright as this Yeah, so the colors are very different. It looks like there's more saturation on the original Game Boy and also the color temperature Obviously, if you're looking it's not quite that. No, it looks closer to what you would see if you fired up an emulator. Wait, hang on. Oh, I'm stupid. I was in original Game Boy mode. Yeah, there's still more and none of the colors There might be some degradation, But I do think that the You can actually see the So there's the thing you can't see on the original Game Boy screening. You kinda make it out. But all right, let me turn this down so we don't have both Now the colors are again very different. Now, this is more purple than this is. This is a red or a shade of purple. Obviously the controls feel a lot better on the analog pocket. At least to me. Now I'm very curious. This game does support I'm pretty sure. Don't quite know how Why couldn't they use this (game music) This isn't gonna work - [Mark] It's 'cause it's not Zelda. - Ah. - [Jono] God damn it. - That's the problem. Well that's disappointing. For whatever reason, it might be that the version on the everdrive here, is different than the version And supposedly this does work as well as pocket to pocket. However, when I was poking around, I did notice something else. There's this high quality You also have things like frame blending, which kinda simulates on the old LCDs. Well as sharpness filters, which I'm not sure what that does exactly. It just says plus three, but I don't really see it doing anything. I'm not sure. Also size and position doesn't seem to be possible to adjust. Maybe there's still some stuff Anyway, let's try &quot;Sonic Advance&quot;. See if that audio cleaned up any. (game music) Okay. Well I just added myself That sounded a lot better. I wanna take it apart. - [Jono] Throw all the bits - See which bit fits. It's a little small, but it works. Big screws. So I felt this kinda... Okay. - [Jono] There you go. - So that's the battery. 15.91 watt hours. It seems pretty repairable. The battery's in this There's a connector for it. And then this plate. I think there's extra screws I'm not sure if we want to wrench on it too much more though. But it's nice to know that and it seems to be pretty repairable. There we go. So, the Analog Pocket. What are my thoughts? The battery life that I've This is a 600 maH power battery by default and it runs for just as long It's a power hungry piece of hardware, but they made it work. The original GBA... What was the original GBA's... All right, sorry. GBA SP's battery life. - [Man] Seven to 10. - So seven to 10. So it's just comparable. Pretty good form factor. I like the buttons. I like the screen. The operating system, everything is kind of which is a little bit weird. And I would like to see more controls because I'd like to be able to the face buttons for It just makes more sense that way, even though the original hardware you would have to use those buttons. The original hardware just used that because it didn't really have a choice. But now we do. - [Man] It says all buttons - Yeah, but it doesn't let me do that. It just let's me mirror buttons. Maybe that's something They do add more features when they release these consoles, so. But I like the screen. I like the screen quality. It's a different screen. There are some times compatibility issues with these FPGA emulators but usually analog is pretty They do have a bit of a for boasting a hundred percent accuracy and all that kinda stuff, but it's not. But what they've created here is a really solid piece of hardware. I really dig it. And I think for $200 you You could get an Amber you can get any number but the experience This boots up in two seconds. It's the advantage of having the FPGA. Again, I'm not gonna say And I would like to have more of them to kinda try out more of And I would like to have the dock to try and see what that's like, because right now the only is either if you have the Game Boy player, which is expensive to find with a disk. The players themselves but they're worthless without That's basically it. - [Man] The dock is a - A hundred bucks for the dock, okay. - [Man] And $30 for each adopter. - 30 bucks for each As for the dock... But at the same time, the dock's got an HTMI connection to it. If you don't want to faff around all that kinda stuff, yeah. They're not gonna say that it's the best value thing out there, but it's quality and it's convenient. And I don't really have Hopefully they make more for stock and hopefully they send us another one 'cause we're gonna need one. 'Cause I'm heading home now. Go watch the MiSTer multi-system if you want more on this Again, FPGAs are not a silver bullet, but when they work, they work real well.