There was a recent report done by the Nuclear Can you make them work? Yes you can make them work. Is there an advantage doing it? I haven't seen it. A new paper has just come out on Not quite so bullish on It's from Britain's National Nuclear Laboratory. So they say that there is about four times But at the moment uranium is cheap It's, I think, one of these sort Melting the fuel rods down in concentrated Extracting [uranium] 233 and then and putting it in another reactor... It's economically totally out of the question. Go to my web page section on thorium You just heard three different reports cited. One to a congressional committee on energy. One to readers of The Economist. And one to the audience of Russia Today. All 3 reports overwhelmingly of consuming thorium Such as Shippingport Atomic Power Station. This reactor is going to cost something over about a 100,000 kilowatts of power. The real object of this Pressurized Water Reactors It will not be cheap to operate. It will be no cheaper to would have been to At the present time reactor design We are trying to make Rickover built one of these reactors and A funny-looking submarine Get Out. It is the first full-scale nuclear power in the United States. Over its 25-year life, Shippingport was powered one fuel load of thorium. He wanted to prove you could He kind of snuck Radkowsky in The people in charge now of the AEC Only problem is the core turned into a gigantic accurate with a million little He was trying to shoehorn different It made it very complicated He did that under the We used to have a separate Naval They developed and built the reactor for the The story of The Nautilus is legend. Because of its success it was used as an advanced design Its name: PWR - The reason we have that as the base for our The Navy was prepared to pay the And once you've done that it's extraordinarily first mover costs are very, very high and have I became really quite friendly with and that's where he Was that about 1947? It was 1947, yes. And it was I who urged young Rickover, was with the Pressurized Water Reactor. You know, The Navy had reactors and so The Navy has built their nuclear submarines as The Navy, the water-cooled reactor But The Air Force wants to Dirty little secret was that most of the that it really wasn't practical. In contrast to a submarine where you've got people on the submarine, it's much harder Most of us did not really think the But we did feel that there is very interesting And I would maintain that Weinberg was absolutely then. He knew that to make the nuclear airplane They couldn't use high-pressure reactors. They couldn't use complicated solid fuel reactors. They had to have something that was so slick, That operated at low pressure, high temperature, They didn't even know what it was. I think someday this will be looking at as if this program, this Nuclear Airplane program would have never been invented because it completely out of the ballfield through an evolutionary development. It had to be forced into existence by and the nuclear airplane was that. Well we were young chemical God smiles on young chemical that in later years would The Navy program that led to the was well optimized to It actually wasn't very well optimized to The reactor category advocated by the Molten-Salt Reactor is covered in Thorium? Yeah, they are idiots. Now, let me tell you about thorium. To produce electricity you have to Then make the fuel rods with It is economically totally out of the question, There's some sort of psychotic element in and hormone receptors in the brain. Behavior and sex comes into it. E = m c^2 is a substitute Erection and ejaculation! Um, and they like it, and it's the sort of So let's dismiss that third report by and focus on They do include sections on molten salt. The United Kingdom's NNL report correctly Salt Reactors in its Molten Salt Reactor section. That is, page 23. However, the full implications of Molten Salt sections. For example, proliferation risk and reprocessing will be shuttled between the reactor, a reprocessing That is not the case. Uranium-233 is both created and fissioned Unlike solid fuel alternatives what emerges a proliferation risk, nor a reprocessing challenge. A single part of the NNL report illustrates Page 18. Recycling U-233 present some difficult challenges products from U-232. Problems. Challenges. Technological barriers. Technical risk. And then, at the bottom- MSR is unique in no fuel fabrication required. The NNL report could easily have a caveat Salt Reactors. MSR impacts every aspect of the thorium fuel From a liquid fuel perspective, there's no The OECD report is another report focused Like the NNL report, every section goes into solid fuel reactors, but it does offer a fairly 11 pages. Does the OECD report evaluate Alvin Weinberg's technical challenges which may impede development? Of those 11 pages, in a 133 page report, 1 This 1 gigawatt design was a thermal reactor heavy chemical fuel salt treatment with a soluble fission products, a drawback by using a fast spectrum instead. The remaining 10 pages of molten salt to a different Molten Salt Reactor concept. A fast-spectrum Molten Salt Reactor. If you don't know the meaning of: then please bear with me. These terms will be explained. In a fast-spectrum reactor, uranium In a solid fuel reactor, It is only in Alvin Weinberg's thermal-spectrum that thorium's advantages become clear. And this is what I think is really worthy an economic case for why should We can go and we can mine uranium and we can the small amount of Uranium-235 in that. And you can put an economic quantification in the form of LEU [Low Enriched Uranium]. It is on the order of $10 to $15. Out of the ground that's that's what a gram So if you want to make an economic case for you better figure out how to turn a gram for less money than that. Otherwise nobody's really going to care from to pursue radical simplification in the reprocessing. Want to make it as simple as we possibly can The OECD report evaluates thorium and based Molten Salt Reactors. It does not evaluate thorium based on Alvin When the idea of the breeder was first suggested the partially spent core was Nothing has happened in the ensuing quarter-century And I'll go further- Nothing has happened changed this. Weinberg nailed the basic idea. The media overlook this gaping hole in the No mention of Alvin Weinberg, the Molten-Salt No mention of a buried sentence Let's reword it for clarity. This one gigawatt design was a thermal reactor the drawbacks of fast-spectrum by removing chemical fuel salt treatment. The successful breeder will be the one that either by the achievement extremely long burn step. We at Oak Ridge have always been intrigued It explains our long commitment first the Aqueous Homogenous, The second reactor actually operated very There it is this is the place. These things right over here See those things will extend like 60 foot melting, the bubbling and One of the things that I've learned from talking that we could build the machine, they didn't Operation of the MSRE was not too difficult. And the people that I had working for me Old cars out in the yard, If anything came up inside the Molten Salt And they did. He felt like despite the challenges of operating to operate and maintain that machine over I started out at the lab in 1957 and got onto The dynamics were not common to instead of water cooled solid fuel. If it heats up it gets less dense and that Less reactive- Yeah. I was running some tests late at night. The device that I was using got stuck in the power went went up and and then controlled itself Everybody was happy. After they completed the Molten Salt Reactor Commission, they said, &quot;Hey G can we have We'd like to go now and build the real thing. We'd like to build the core and we'd like a power conversion system on and make electricity.&quot; They felt like they'd shot the moon. Well, the Atomic Energy did not share their zeal to In addition to being a also the original inventor of He had invented it and It was a little bit of a tricky thing to have for something very, very, very different. He didn't like the fact that it he just, he saw that as a risk. But as long as the reactor was as small as only 60 megawatts, then containment shell It was safe. But when you went to 1,000 megawatt reactors He figured there would be an not able to maintain the In some very remote situation conceive of Does any of this sound familiar? He was making enough of a stink about this told Alvin Weinberg, he said, if you're so it might be time for you to And Weinberg was really kind of horrified because he wasn't questioning the value If anything he was far more convinced What he was questioning, was in the development of nuclear reactors. Do you feel like the program had a sound technical were the basis for cancellation? Some of the technical reasoning that there was a corrosion problem. Tritium was raised as another issue, we made Did the people on the program feel like tritium We recognized that tritium would have to be something that we should be able to do. Did the people on the program, particularly feel that corrosion was an No. And some of the subsequent experimental work to solve that issue, as well as the tritium experiments. Were either of you present when the molten-salt seventies? We were still working here. We were still working on the system. We were still finalizing reports on the performance I didn't see it coming. Mr. President? Since you missed our meeting on breeder reactors, I told Ziegler to tell the press that it was This has got to be something we play very on one thing. Any activities that we possibly can should So, on the committee, every time you have Say, where's this going to be? Let's push the California thing. Can you do that? Nixon was from California. Hosmer was from Southern California. Chet Holifield, who ran the Joint Committee It doesn't lead me to believe that the President the fast breeder reactor and other paths that It was a focus on what can we do right now Now, don't ask me what a breeder reactor is. All of this business about breeder reactors my... That was one of my poorer subjects, science. I got through it but I had to work too hard. I gave it up when i was about a sophomore. But what I do know is this- That here we have in the development of power for peace. The fellow on the phone call that we heard I for one don't intend to scream and holler In that same month the Atomic Energy Commission It almost completely ignored the safety and use of the Molten-Salt Breeder Reactor technology. Milton Shaw who was the head of reactor development MSRE Reactor Experiment, fire everybody, just home. And send me the money for fast breeders. In any other place, as an organization you're it just gets lost. It is amazing how much they documented. Enormous amounts of detail about and how they had Almost all the nuclear power we use on Earth It's a covalently bonded substance. The oxygen has a covalent bond with two hydrogens. Neither one of those bonds is strong by a gamma or a neutron. And sure enough, they knock Now, in a water cooled reactor, you have a the hydrogen gas and the oxygen from the nuclear reaction It's a great system as long as it's Well, at Fukushima Daiichi, the problem At high temperature H2O can also Or damage the cladding, These 2 accidents illustrate which is more chemically Three Mile Island, Chernobyl and Fukushima But what all 3 had in common was when things started to go wrong. Steam takes up about 1,000 times If you have liquid water at 300 degrees Celsius stay liquid for very long That's scuba tank, hot scuba tank, full of At Three Mile Island, water couldn't some of the coolant water The increased pressure forced coolant water At Chernobyl, the insertion of poorly designed The boiling point of the pressurized water It was a steam explosion that tore and shot it up through At Fukushima, loss of pump power allowed the it boiled away. These 3 accidents illustrate the need for water. When you put water under extreme pressure that extreme pressure. Almost all of the aspects of our nuclear reactors be traced back to the need to have pressurized Water cooled reactors have another challenge. They need to be near large bodies of water condensed. Otherwise they can't generate electrical power. You see I had the good fortune to learn about have all these problems for a very simple it doesn't use solid fuel. Surprisingly it's based on salt. Science allows you to look at Chemically and physically. And it really makes you look Your table salt is frozen. That's a really strange thing to think about It's frozen. But once they melt they have a 1,000 And they have excellent They can carry a large amount of Water is actually really good Its really good at carrying Salts are just as good carrying But salts don't have to be pressurized. And that- If you remember nothing else of A nuclear reactor is a rough The nice thing about a salt from a positive ion and a negative ion. Like sodium is positively charged, And they go, we're not really going to bond That's what's called an ionic bond. Yeah, you're kinda friends. You know, you're- Facebook friends! Alright, well it turns out this is a really is going to take those guys and with gammas and neutrons and everything. The good news is they don't really care As long as there are an equal number the big picture is happy. A salt is composed of the stuff and the stuff that's in these Fluorine is so reactive with everything. But once it's made a salt, a fluoride, then Sodium chloride, table salt, or potassium We like the lower melting Human mechanical energy is so amazing. Why can't we use that to create energy? You will never run out of electricity. You never generate any pollution. So half the world is not We call it- Free Electric. Solar Freakin' Roadways- -replaces all roadways, parking lots, sidewalks, recreation surfaces with smart, microprocessing, Maintaining a nation of solar highways. Manufacturing bicycle-battery-generators An extremely ambitious idea to The Department of Transportation People are actually taking this seriously. Despite the media attention they've received, But they're par for the course They Keystone XL Pipeline extension- For a while, the entire national energy Sometimes it seems the more the more attention it receives. If you'll give me a chance to serve, I'll and all the people together as a part of our nation's Even Al Gore, who was a key proponent of Corn The energy conversion ratios are, at best, How does Corn's 1.3 times compare against Solar cells return 7 times. Natural Gas is 10 times. Wind is 18 times. Today's water cooled nuclear is 80 times. Coal is 80 times. Hydropower is 100 times. A thorium powered molten salt reactor can Let's take a peek at a future powered by nuclear! This is a little weird. We can radically cut climate change emissions We don't need to invent anything new! We just need to stop wasting time with distractions Come on! Let's build the future we all want to see! To understand why nuclear power has so much It requires you to exercise a little bit of Which part of this is doable, and could be and which part of this is not? And there's a collage of images that the anti-nuclear weapons. I hate nuclear weapons. I never want to see nuclear weapons used. I have no interest in that- But I do want and my children's lives, and your children's Think of the sun's heat on your upturned face From 150,000,000 kilometres away- we recognize When was the last time you watched Cosmos Recently actually. Yeah? I showed it to my kids a couple years ago. Empire Strikes Back and Cosmos were probably of 6. The Sun is the nearest star- a glowing sphere The surface we see an ordinary visible light But in its hidden interior- At the same time The Sun's own gravity pulls A stable equilibrium between gravity and nuclear Atoms are made in the insides of stars. The atoms are moving so fast, that when they Helium is the ash of The Sun's nuclear furnace. The Sun is a medium-sized star, its core is Hot enough to fuse hydrogen, but too cold There many stars in the galaxy more massive supernova explosions. Those explosions are far hotter than the core Hot enough to transform elements like iron space. Long before the Earth, our home, was built- Our planet, our society, and we ourselves, Now, two of the things that were created in These were different because they were radioactive supernova explosion stored in their very nuclear And some of this thorium and uranium was incorporated Sinking to the center of the world, and heating Liquid iron circulating around the solid part wire carrying electric current. Electric currents produce magnetic Our magnetic field protects us from A bigger deal- the magnetic If you don't have a magnetic over billions of years your Because the solar wind will without the protective nature So if we didn't have the energy from thorium The decay of radioactive elements in the core Let's talk about radioactivity. Because I had an erroneous notion I thought, that if you had something that something had a half-life of a million years, for a day is like brr-r-r-r-r-r-r-r for a And the dude with the half-life for a million years, and then done. Ok, so you go- Which one of these is more Well definitely the one that's got a half-life like, radioactive forever, and the that's not a big deal, right? Completely wrong! Ok? Utterly backwards. The dude who is radioactive for a day The dude who is radioactive for a million Which one of those two is more dangerous? The one that's radioactive for a day. By a long shot! Ok? So you're radioactivity is directly, and If somebody goes to you here's stuff that's You go, here give it to me, I'm going to put It's not going to hurt me. Agghh! It's not going to hurt me. Here's stuff with a half-life of a day- you No! No, keep it away from me man! That stuff is hot! But it's going away fast too, right? Got a longer half-life? Less dangerous. And I want to tear my hair out because what With all out radioactive waste? The main problem is radioactive waste. Close down all those reactors, now. With solar and wind and geothermal- Geothermal. What's green energy? And they go- Okay, do you you know where geothermal comes No. Comes from the decay of thorium inside the Oh. Is geothermal renewable? Yes. Ok, then thorium's renewable. No it's not you're using it up! Well, you're using up thorium as it decays Any argument for geothermal, is an argument for the renewability The majority of American geothermal which has most of its geothermal energy A typical Imperial Valley 40 tons of radioactive waste, every day. And they're saddled with all our radioactive Geothermal is creating 200 times that nuclear reactors do, I don't wanna wear a dosimeter. Don't want to calculate rems and sieverts. I don't wanna see no clean-up crew. Or get zapped before I hear the news. We can get the heat from Earth and Sun. And hook the wind to make the engines run. If common sense could only start- What a wonderful world this would be! Coal and gas plants are able to release radioactive amounts than a nuclear plant because they are considered - Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials. For instance, when you go frack a lot of radon comes Burn the gas that radon being released. Nobody counts that radon against the gas. If they did, the regulatory commission Same with coal. And they've spent a lot of money to make sure for a coal or gas plant the way they regulate If they did we would be shutting based on radioactivity alone. A fear of radiation, probably, is the basis What is radiation? It's simply the idea that there are certain In the process of changing to something Modern physics and chemistry have to an astonishing simplicity! Three units put together in different patterns The proton has a positive electrical charge. A neutron is electrically neutral. And an electron an equal Since every atom is electrically neutral, must equal the number of electrons The protons and neutrons together If you're an atom and you have just 1 proton- 2 protons- helium. 3- lithium. All the way to 92 protons- For any given element, the number But the number of neutrons may vary. The atomic weight of an atom is the number Natural uranium may contain That means- U-234, U-235, and U-238. Some elements, such as tin, have a Others, such as aluminum, Most isotopes are stable. They would never spontaneously But some isotopes They're busy being radioactive. Given enough time, this Radium-88 This is how isotopes in the The geiger counter detects their presence. A cloud chamber makes these rays Each new vapor trail shows that another atom Each atom does this only once This activity appears to go on endlessly. That's because there's billions You can't turn decay on and off. If we can turn radioactive decay on and off figured out how to do it, Because we simply can't influence Hit it with a hammer. Boil it in oil. Vaporize it. The nucleus of an atom Immune to the shocks The atoms of each unstable element These mouse traps represent Every once in a while, a mousetrap's A tiny bit of mass is converted changes spontaneously Thorium has only one isotope, Thorium-232. It has a 14 billion year half-life. Ok, so when the universe is thorium will have only So based on what I just what does that tell you about Not very. It's hardly at all. Ok, uranium, two isotopes. Uranium-235, Uranium-238, U-238 has a 5 billion year half life. That's pretty old, that's about That's how old the earth is, Uranium-235 on the other hand, much This is a handful of these You see in the picture, And so you think- He's got gloves on to protect But now that I've taught you about you might go- I dunno Kirk I'm not so sure And you would be correct! He's not protecting himself from the uranium- That stuff has to stay super pure and super oils, or grease, or sweat on nuclear fuel that's what the gloves are for. Knowing that some atoms could spontaneously neutron into the nucleus of and least stable atom found in nature. Instead of a minor change, the uranium atom When an atom is so unstable that it can we call that &quot;FISSILE&quot;. When the fissile uranium atoms split were lighter than the The missing mass was Also released were two neutrons. One free neutron Now we have two neutrons. This implied a nuclear Somebody wondered one time- Ok, billion years and natural nuclear reactors When you generate electricity you make 200 new elements that never We found in Africa, at a place called Oklo, scores of natural nuclear reactors there. That were nothing more than uranium ore in would lead to a nuclear reaction. And these reactors ran for So we did NOT invent It was done long, long, long before Back when the earth was formed there was a Uranium-235 is like silver and platinum. Can you imagine burning And that's what we're doing with our nuclear rare stuff, and were not burning the Uranium-238 Your uranium in Saskatchewan is so rich you It's extremely powerful. Caldicott is wrong. There is no natural source of isotopically Natural uranium's isotopic ratios are identical- The amount of uranium in the world finite. If all electricity today was generated with supply of uranium left in the whole world. In reality, there is no more a than there is a constrained Uranium is water soluble, and it passes from Every year, the ocean contains more My straw reaches across the room. We're pretty inventive when it comes to harvesting I drink your milkshake! I drink it up! We are never going to run out of uranium. It is quite literally a renewable resource. For all the difference About 35 years worth of We're going to run out of oil. As a natural resource, the appeal is that thorium has zero We can power our civilization on thorium It is already a plentiful byproduct We need thorium and he needs It's found in tailings piiles. It's found in ash piles. Only one of the materials in nature is naturally a very small amount of This was the form of uranium that could be Most of the uranium was Uranium-238. This had to be transformed into another nuclear And then there was thorium. And in a similar manner, to Uranium-238, into another nuclear fuel, Uranium-233, How much energy did the neutron have, Ok how much energy did it have? And then how many neutrons did you kick out Two is a very significant number in breeder You need two neutrons. You've got to have one and you have to have another one to Ok, look at plutonium... eeeehhhhhh. It's that dip below 2 right there. That's what makes it so you cannot burn up like a water-cooled reactor. You just can't do it. The physics are against you. And the reality is, you do lose some neutrons. You can't build a perfect reactor that doesn't They look at this and they said, man! We just can't burn Uranium-238 in a thermal It just can't be done! Well, these guys are undeterred, they said a fast reactor. Because, look how good it gets in the fast Wow! It gets above 2, it gets up to 3! Wow, this is really good! Well there's a powerful disincentive with what are called CROSS-SECTIONS. These are a way of describing how likely Look how much bigger the cross sections How many of these little dots are we going We're going to a lot! So this is why it was a big deal in this region of the curve. Those little bitty dots? They're up here in this part of the curve. Ok, this is a fast region, Thorium is more abundant than uranium. All we're consuming now is that very, But this is not the big deal! It's not a big deal that natural thorium than the very small The big deal about thorium is- that we can That's the big with thorium. Is it can be consumed in When you're talking about a you have to have fuel And they're both essential The moderator is slowing And when neutrons have been slowed down, we In a water-cooled reactor we use water, to slow down the The graphite in the Molten Salt Reactors, Yes, that's the moderator in the reactor. Same idea, except we use graphite Neutrons going in the graphite, hit the carbon Now why slow it down? That's the difference when you're going to That's why you want to slow it down. You want the big dot, not the little bitty A thermal-spectrum Molten Salt Reactor has in order to sustain criticality. If the vessel ruptures, recriticality is fundamentally The drain tank does not have any graphite If something happens where that fuel drains longer possible, the reactor is subcritical- And there's no way to restart it without reloading This is such a remarkable feature. And it really is unique to having and to having something to You can't do this in solid fuel- you do this If we had more of today's reactors in operation, American's yearly energy demand. Per-capita, that's the equivalent Every year, for every single American. Or, 12 tonnes of coal. Or, 53 hundred cubic feet of natural gas, 4 grams of thorium can power a middle-class That's just 4 grams. But this can only happen if the reactor is liquid fuel, if the reactor runs at high temperature, advantage of the reactor's The performance of the that it leads to very, very The turbo machinery for this entire Probably on half this stage. And if anybody's been to a big reactor before can appreciate what a High efficiency power conversion enabled by Complete burnup of nuclear fuel enabled by online chemistry, and thermal breeding. Such as Alvin Weinberg and the until the molten salt breeder Shaw says, stop that MSRE Fire everybody. Just tell them to clear out And send me the money for fast-breeders. This is the thorium reactor. Can you tell me what the What the advantages are, the disadvantages? The first commercial reactor operated was based on thorium fuel. My constituents are always Does thorium have a place Can you make them work? Is there an advantage to doing it? There's about 4x more thorium But at the moment uranium is cheap It's, I think, one of these An atom of thorium and an atom of uranium improvement in energy density over coal. It isn't that an atom of thorium contains Or that natural thorium is much But we don't consume natural There's about 4x more thorium Thorium is 400x as And we can't harness the full power of That's a bigger challenge. Just like today's reactors, any one piece to sustain fission before its energy It is the semi-fissioned fuel which then or treated as waste. The elimination of fuel fabrication, and the step, are essential if you want to harvest produce the smallest amount of nuclear waste. Because the economics of nuclear power don't cheaper to simply dig up more uranium, rather The most environmentally friendly is the ONLY way to operate If you stop the chemical kidney, The chemical kidney lets us continually remove It is how our thorium fuel can be completely People recycle cans they recycle papers. Why not candles? I say we put a bin out, let people bring back It's like those bags that say We could have a bin that says- And when they bring in those candles, I used to be another, another candle. Yeah and then eventually we just have one By weight, a paraffin candle stick and gasoline Why don't cars run on paraffin wax? Because the inside of your car What process do we run chemically We don't. Everything we do, we use as liquids or gases, You can take a liquid you can fully mix it. You can take a gas you can fully mix it. You can't take a solid and fully mix it, You know, the people build Light Water Reactors And this is a whole lot of chemistry that So it's the chemistry of it that makes it nukes kinda go- You know, oooh, we were going In the nuclear space there You know, we don't know their work as well that's a different approach. There's a liquid type reactor which seems uh. Although Bill Gates Traveling Wave as a mechanical device shuffling TerraPower sought and received a research It is for the study of a uranium fueled Uh, can you make them work? Is there an advantage to doing it? Unless you're using slowed down, Thorium breeding offers no advantage Dr. Lyons report's investigation of Molten Salt That is why he sees no thorium Alvin Weinberg new the kidney would be required. His team knew it before they even started So it's a bit disappointing to see Weinberg's &quot;a drawback that could be potentially eliminated&quot;. The last operational Molten Salt Reactor It ran in a remote location. Research documents were For 3 decades, we didn't Then in 2002, ORNL's Molten Salt and accessible to some 2004. Kirk Sorensen delivers CD-ROMs full national labs and universities. Dr. Per Peterson at Berkeley receives a copy. 2006. Kirk moves the scanned research onto his website. 2008. Molten Salt Reactor lectures and are hosted on 2009. The very first thorium conference is held. Wired Magazine runs a feature story on Thorium. 2010. American Scientist runs a feature on Thorium. International thorium conferences begin. Server logs show Chinese students downloading 2011. China announces their intention to build In the U.S., Flibe Energy is founded. Transatomic Power is founded. 2012. Baroness Bryony Worthington tours which has never been Kun Chen visits Berkeley California, are working full-time 2013. Terrestrial Energy is Founded. 2014. ThorCon is Founded. Moltex is founded. Seaborg Technologies are founded. Copenhagen Atomics are founded. 2015. A flood of technical details and technology India reveals their new facility for molten China announces that now 700 engineers are Bill Gates' TerraPower receives a 2016. Just as this video is about to be released documentary about Molten Salt Reactors called: Dr. James Hansen tells Rolling Stone magazine powered by thorium. And Oak Ridge discovers actual film footage Produced in 1969, it was forgotten It offers up our first and only glimpse of As a communications asset, and will be fully incorporated In 2017 I think just about The Molten-Salt Reactor Experiment was brilliant achievements of the And I hope that after I'm gone, people will on molten salts and will say, &quot;Hey! These guys had a pretty good idea, Back in the 60s, Alvin Weinberg saw the Molten-Salt and the need for clean water. Desalination would turn the Power centers would co-locate energy intensive Surplus power would be sold He knew- energy was the ultimate raw material... the easier it is to recycle and Given enough power, we can pull carbon One day, on our path towards putting a Molten-Salt Reactor It will create manufacturing jobs, It will charge your electric car- at night. Give me a martini, straight-up, with two olives. For the vitamins. You'll do things with energy And you'll be kept safe by a and gravity powered I don't know when we'll get to that point. Everyone's design is different. Everyone's path to market- different. I suspect more than one will succeed. Before they do, I want everyone to know what