The stuff of the visible universe - stars, Just luminous sprinkling on top of the the gravitational universe. Although we for a long time we thought we at least had it's model had to be right because it worked so well Well that is until it didn't. Distressing disagreements with newer observations sent many physicists back to the blackboard. But even more recently, a new generation of sophisticated, high-power computer simulations may save our favorite dark matter that visible matter may be much more important We have no idea what dark matter is, other than invisible but exerts way more pull that all of all of the gas, all of the black holes...unless dark of everything. Dark matter constitutes which means even our Milky Way galaxy is mostly attracted a relative sprinkling of which lit up as starry glitter spinning in the But for all of dark matter's mysteriousness, behavior. Or at least so we have long thought. cold dark matter, or CDM. This type of dark matter interact with each other or anything else except making them cold. If a universe starts out full fluid tend to attract more dark matter and grow. of this process, and based on the CDM model, the types of giant structures--galaxies, galaxy Although we don't know what this "CDM" might be types of particle that could do the job. Broadly, WIMPs, which are predicted by various extensions Or there's another exotic particle, the axion, or even the frozen Planck-scale relics of evaporated black holes all behave like cold dark matter, The fact that there are many fairly natural ways the idea. But another one is the so-called our universe were created soon after the Big was hot enough for matter-antimatter the extremely energetic radiation of that universe expanded and cooled, and most of this which is much more able to interact with itself, that was left is just due to the 1-in-a billion But dark matter particles in the WIMP category wouldn't have self-annihilated so quickly due to its weakly-interacting nature. Instead, it stopped too big for dark matter particles to find each much dark matter should have been left when the right number for the amount of dark matter miracle. Now this does require the existence of like those predicted by supersymmetry, but Long story short, CDM was looking great. we began to notice that our rapidly of the universe stopped matching up quite so Because cold dark matter is cold, it should be little gravity holding them together. That's have trouble escaping even weak gravitational the formation of the Milky Way with this type of dark matter halo that attracts the gas that forms But within this halo these CDM simulations also big gravitational well that themselves should galaxies - what we call satellite galaxies. and really any big galaxy should be orbited by of real galaxies don't find anywhere near enough and it was a clue that our CDM model Another prediction of CDM is about the shape of big galaxies. Gas in a room pushes on itself due to the fact that the particles interact creating an outer pressure. But the weakly interacting CDM particles don't push each other apart. Add the fact that they are moving very slowly, and it becomes possible for these particles to form very dense, tight clusters. CDM models predict that inside galaxies, the density from the outskirts inwards, and should reach And regular matter should fall towards this of stars near the galactic center. But in out within several thousand light years of the known as the "cusp-core" problem, and it's Of course, physics thrives on discrepancy, and these problems have inspired many years of The most obvious fix to cold dark matter is to We can't heat up dark matter too much all--the particles will just wizz randomly through we increase temperature just a bit to give us warm dark matter, or WDM? There is a way to do this, sterile neutrinos could give us a WDM, and we've discussed previously. However this neutrino abundance doesn't "miraculously" come out just right from the particle physics and If dark matter is made of a relatively light they can still form big haloes but have simply because small haloes don't have strong moving particles. So maybe that's why the This doesn't really help us with the Self-interacting dark matter (SIDM) proposes with themselves a bit more than standard CDM scatter off each other, which stops them becoming Finally, there's also fuzzy dark matter (FDM), In this model, dark matter is a superfluid of thousands of light years long. It can't form so may neatly eliminate tiny satellites perhaps solving both the "missing OK, so we have a few reasonable solutions Well, not so fast. While all of this new physics to see if the problems with cold dark matter could CDM is appealing as a model for more reasons than is the most natural type of dark matter to have convenience isn't enough for us to accept But it turns out that despite hints to the The CDM simulations I've been talking which means that they don't include ordinary behaves in the absence of gas and stars a bit forgetful on the part of the more than 5 times more dark matter than all the gravitational oomph in the universe is for these simulations to ignore the relatively we're now discovering that there are a couple of First, ordinary matter is the stuff we actually to predict what it is we should see, it's helpful how do you predict what you're going to we guessed that all of the dark matter Way should contain visible satellite galaxies. are less than around a billion times the mass gas from the intergalactic medium, because too quickly--to become trapped in the shallow So most of these sub-halos have few to no them. If this is right then the satellites Also, our telescopes are becoming more and more faint galaxies and substructures, so we're getting And now the second reason that regular matter represents only a small fraction of the mass in than dark matter because it can form us for example, but it can also influence dark matter in unexpected ways. Because it can create when the most massive of those stars die. Every chunk of the gas surrounding it. That gas can of the galaxy entirely. And this outgoing gas The dense galactic core of a young galaxy will which leads to multiple waves of supernovae. dragged gravitationally out of the core of the galaxy. This can ultimately flatten out what started as a very high density core, eliminating But CDM isn't totally out of the woods yet. In that seem to defy these needs fixes for CDM's that have the typical low density cores but don't pasts to do that supernova-driven smearing. And formation that actually have high-density cusps. supernovae in these cases. So what started out as a "cusp-core" problem has actually evolved into what's being called a "density-diversity" problem. galaxies that doesn't appear to be correlated with matter halo. Currently it's hard to see how the The missing satellites solution also has a new are going to be invisible due to not holding onto reasonable number of larger sub-haloes within a of the sun. These things should have no problem should be able to see them. But we don't really simulations. So the "missing satellites" problem problem: we expected to not see the smaller some of the bigger CDM halos--the ones that should be too massive to have failed to form galaxies and stars. Both the "density-diversity" and "too-big-to-fail" they're difficult to solve by including hypothesis-killers for CDM that the cusp-core and missing satellite problems once seemed to be. It may be that improved simulations As the prospects of CDM recovered, alternative under strain. Our improving telescope sensitivity that conflict with the predictions of WDM and structure. Now there are ways to tweak these models to better match our observations, but that kind of defeats their original purpose, so they're The bottom line is that there is still both the microscopic constituents and the one thing is clear: ordinary matter is not nearly In order for us to finally solve one of the to figure out the nature of dark matter, we'll of the complex ways in which all types of