[Aggressive and threatening strings] -[Kevin] Ah, Halloween. What attraction should I do for a spooky episode this year? I know. I'll just go to a non-descript listicle site that does minimal research Well, what do you know. &quot;The Top Three Scariest Defunct Disney Attractions&quot;. Let's see. No, already did that. *Shudders* Did that one twice. Wait a minute. What is this? What the he- Hello Earth, from the deepest depths of hell. It's where dead and forgotten rot and dwell. But the souls beneath, are not foes or friends. Instead it's theme park rides that have met their end. They go to Defuncthell (Defuncthell). All of the fun, they bid farewell (Defuncthell). Disney, Universal and Cedar Fair (Defuncthell). Now most of Six Flags is down there (Defuncthell). They go to Defuncthell. *Evil laugh* *Another evil laugh* -[Kevin] In 1971, The Walt Disney Company purchased an option to adapt author Lloyd Alexander's five-part series: &quot;The Chronicles of Prydain&quot;, into a feature film. At the time of the purchase, Walt Disney Pictures was beginning And while the company had been working without their leader for some time, they had expended many of the movie concepts This meant that the studio would have to find new source material on their own, The company's animation division, tasked with releasing a first turned to concepts that Walt had once considered. This resulted in 1973's &quot;Robin Hood&quot; and 1977's &quot;The Rescuers&quot;, but the company quickly realized that digging through Due to a variety of pre-production issues, The Chronicles of Prydain adaptation, was pushed back to 1984, with &quot;The Fox and the Hound&quot; taking the 1980 slot. Production on The Fox and the Hound was rocky to say the least, with internal fights breaking out among producers and animators. The arguments always seemed to come back And more often than not, the winner of the argument By the time The Chronicles of Prydain adaptation, now working with the the title the &quot;What would Walt do?&quot; mindset was proving to be counter-intuitive, it became clear that it was impossible to mimic a creator Because of this, The Black Cauldron team was allowed to take a darker more epic tale than most of Disney's features. It also helped that fantasy interpretations of medieval times was at peak popularity. The early-80's loved Castles and Knights almost as much The film centered around a young farmhand named Taran, The film's storyline was often unclear The Black Cauldron was set to release in 1984. However, that same year, a management shakeup at The Walt Disney Company resulted in Michael Eisner, Frank Wells and Jeffrey Katzenberg joining the company. After seeing a test screening of The Black Cauldron, Katzenberg, the new head of Walt Disney Studios, was horrified at the product. Claiming that it was too intense for a family audience. He demanded that the film be edited, not fully realizing that an animated film cannot be edited the same as the live-action productions he was used to working on, after the animation team explained this to him, The film's producers called CEO Michael Eisner, The film was eventually edited, with over ten minutes The film's release was delayed to 1985, where it debuted in July as the first Disney animated feature to receive a PG rating. The film, taking over a decade to produce, cost an estimated $44 million, making it the most expensive animated film at the time of its release. Critics praised the technical aspects of the film, it grossed just over $21 million at the box office, resulting in an over $20 million loss for The Walt Disney Company. The film's failure made the new executive team question with Eisner, Wells and Katzenberg seriously considering The Black Cauldron was a failure and an embarrassment, and merchandising the film was certainly out of the question. Almost all of The Walt Disney Company wanted to forget its existence... Almost. Announcer: Now, there's &quot;Tokyo Disneyland&quot;. The Japanese may not buying our cars, Here is American industrial robots telling the history of Japan, programmed not to mention World War II. So, while the band plays on, Japan's eating it all up like rice. In its first year, Tokyo Disneyland expects ten million visitors; Now if they'd only buy our Chevrolets. -[Kevin] That casual racism is scarier than any jump scare I can come up with. On April 15th, 1983, two years before The Black Cauldron's debut, A joint venture between The Walt Disney Company and Tokyo Disneyland was immensely popular right out of the gate, with attendance figures similar, and often better than, This was good news for The Walt Disney Company, although many executives were disappointed that the profit from one of the company's biggest successes in the last decade had to be shared. Disney and The Oriental Land Company and the park is very similar to the Magic Kingdom at &quot;Walt Disney World&quot;. This is most obvious with the park's icon, &quot;Cinderella Castle&quot;, but the two nearly identical structures have a key difference. In the Magic Kingdom, Cinderella Castle hosts this is absent in the Tokyo Disneyland version. On opening day, there was nothing but closed doors where This was because the castle was not meant to host a restaurant, it would instead house an attraction, named &quot;Cinderella Castle Mystery Tour&quot;, a creepy walkthrough of the castle's dungeons complete A manager in The Oriental Land Company described the unique setup as: &quot;Cinderella Castle is Tokyo Disneyland's symbol, and Mystery Tour, is its ride.&quot; The idea for Cinderella Castle Mystery Tour came from the fact that any attraction utilizing the castle's space would have to take place underground. This inspired the idea of the castle having dungeons that guests could tour. Mystery Tour takes inspiration from a Japanese ghost house, both have Labyrinth structures depicting scenes of The story that the imagineers created had the magic mirror from but this caused a slight hiccup in the attraction's production. The imagineers felt that the magic mirror would not However, they were also aware that the voice, In order to meet these self-imposed restrictions, Imagineers had Tokyo Disneyland entertainment division translate and record the lines for the mirror, who then took those recordings and filmed an American actor At the time of its opening, Tokyo Disneyland still used the A to E Ticket Book System, this required guests to purchase an admission ticket to get in, and additional tickets to ride the attractions in the park. Typically buying them in a ticket book which held multiple ride tickets. The attractions were ranked in ticket categories from &quot;A&quot; to &quot;E&quot;, with A being for the more mundane rides The Castle Mystery Tour was listed as a &quot;D&quot; attraction, placing it among the ranks of the &quot;Country Bear Jamboree&quot; The tour was presented with the tag line: &quot;Can you conquer the evil forces of the Disney villains in the castle?&quot; Guests would gather outside of the attraction's entrance, They would then be welcomed in groups of around twenty to thirty people, being led by a cast member, typically female, The tour was reliant of the cast member's spiel, &quot;The Jungle Cruise&quot; and &quot;The Great Movie Ride&quot; A spiel ride typically provides cast members with a pre-approved script, it is then their responsibility to memorize This is to ensure the guests receive all of the necessary exposition to allow the cast member to believably interact Within these requirements, the cast members are generally encouraged This personalization can take the form of timing preferences, body language and delivery and sometimes, though mostly discouraged, script changes. The Mystery Castle Tour was unique in that the cast member had since there was no tracked ride vehicle to do this for them. The exact wording of the script mixed traditional Japanese courtesy This was one of the more difficult aspects of training Japanese cast members, since their culture is very specific when it comes to communication and service roles. Guests are given a short introduction describing those on the tour will be treated to areas such as The guide leads them into the first room, Princess Aurora, Pinocchio, Snow White and Taran from The Black Cauldron. Just as the guide begins to begins to applaud the heroes and their victories against the villains, the magic mirror shows up on one of the walls, displeased that the villains are being demeaned once again. The portraits on the walls change from the heroes to their coinciding villains, The mirror wishes to showcase the power of the villains with a door on the wall swinging open on its own. The guide is surprised and urges guests to follow her Guests walk past prison bars and can hear Bats screeching around them. The guide comes up on a spooky laboratory, miscellaneous magical science equipment is The Witch's shadow can be seen as a Crow rocks back and forth on a skull. The guide decides to leave before the Witch shows up, taking guests down The group walks further into the dungeon, They quickly encounter a scene of a swinging axe controlled by a Knight, the scene gets even scarier when a previously still A chest along the wall is pushed open by living skeletons During the flee, guests pass a short corridor, showing Chernabog gathering his army of demons. The guide quickly directs guests away from the scene, However, Maleficent's minions appear in the water below, threatening guests to either leave or face the evils of their master. As guests rush down the hallway, the goons follow, Guests get a glimpse of the outside of the castle, After this, a talking skull warns guests not to continue, but the guide pushes on. The group then enters &quot;The Cave of the Hidden Jewels&quot;, the guide is thrilled, but a lightning strike reveals A large Dragon roars as steam escapes its jaws, Everyone is relieved, until the voice of a demon echoes throughout the lift, The doors open and the guide timidly exists, afraid of what could come next. The group enters a room filled with the guide then describes the film's plot, an integral part of the spiel considering that no one watched the film. A translation from JTsent.com outlines this part of the script, the guide says: &quot;Once upon a time the world was ruled by evil. The Horned King, the evil lord, used the Black Cauldron Then, the courageous and pure-minded hero, Taran, And peace was restored to the world.&quot; The Magic Mirror interrupts the guide once again, &quot;This is the final challenge, will good win or evil prosper? The good will face this challenge with courage. The Black Cauldron is waiting to swallow you whole.&quot; The guide then chooses a guest, almost always a child, Guest enter the room of the Black Cauldron, The room goes dark before the fire and smoke a large, terrifying animatronic that looms above guests. The Horned King addresses his victims by saying He says: &quot;Everyone welcome, in this Black Cauldron everything in the world is controlled. No one can escape from here and you'll be sacrificed to the Black Cauldron. Oh Satan's kiln, awaken and resurrect the soldiers of death. Rebuild an army without rivals, the army of death, rise. The devil's servants, go and capture them The Black Cauldron wants more bodies, I swear to the death. Just as all seems to be lost, a light illuminates int he group. The chosen one and the guide are pointing &quot;What's that? Capture those fools and gratify the Black Cauldron!&quot; The sword shoots beams of light and The Horned King screams as lights flicker, smoke bellows, the music intensifies and he is defeated. The lights dim as the guide cheers that they have won the rest of the group follows suit, celebrating their victory. The sinister music is replaced with a triumphant symphony. As a door arises, light spills into the room and guests exit With a sign saying: &quot;Good Conquers Evil.&quot; The guide directs everyone's attention to the tour's hero, The guide then thanks everyone for going on the adventure, The Mystery Tour was one of the most unique &quot;ExtraTERRORestrial: Alien Encounter&quot;, the 1994 addition to the Magic Kingdom's &quot;Tomorrowland&quot;, which is widely considered Disney's scariest creation ever, warned guests upfront of the ride's intense themes. Mystery Tour did exact opposite, drawing guests in, only to send them on a horrifying chase through the castle's dungeons. Mystery Tour was one of the longest attractions at Tokyo Disneyland As previously stated, a single sign at the end of the attraction is Unlike most rides at Tokyo Disneyland, The guide's quickly learn to warn American The Mystery Tour officially opened on July 11th, 1986, but with the massive crowds that the park drew in, In its first few months of operation, Tokyo Disneyland would further promote the Mystery Tour My god, who approved this? The Mystery Tour also appeared in a Tokyo Disneyland The attraction serves as the final stage of the game, and passing by familiar scenes to those that have experienced the Mystery Tour. The Mystery Tour operated for twenty years, the attraction quietly closed its doors on April 5th, 2006. Guests experiencing the attraction in its final days as opposed to just the chosen one that held the Sword of Light. Many have speculated the exact reason for the Mystery Tour's closure, the most widely believed theory is that which seems plausible given the ride's dark theming, script and character designs. The ride was not one of the most popular in the park, Another speculation for the closure is the While the Mystery Tour most likely couldn't cycle more than 1000 guests/hour this reason is less likely given that the attraction's maintenance cost Of all the speculated reasons, the one with the most solid basis The same year that the attraction closed, with a newly required seismic structural test The check evaluated the structure's ability as well as analyze the stability of the foundation. Many believed that additional Earthquake support and that in order to meet these new requirements, The Oriental Land Company, possibly due to the attraction's decided that rebuilding it would not be worth the time and money. On April 15th, 2011, just over five years after Mystery Tour's closure, The attraction is a lot different than its predecessor, with mini figurines, artwork and photo opportunities. Disappointingly, there is no continuous story to Fairy Tale Hall, it's almost the exact tour that was promised to guests While it is unfortunate that such a bold and unique attraction the addition of Cinderella's Fairy Tale Hall makes perfect sense, and it arguably fits the theming and tone of Cinderella Castle better than Mystery Tour did. Cinderella Castle Mystery Tour was one of it is the only Disney attraction to prominently feature and it is one of, if not, the darkest Disney attraction ever created. Its unique style has inspired the creation of other attractions of its kind, For one, &quot;Disneyland Paris'&quot; Sleeping Beauty Castle houses which allows guests to go underneath the castle Most notably, a new castle walkthrough attraction the attraction uses similar elements to the Mystery Tour, with more tame theming and scenes. Many fans were disappointed that the Mystery Tour was removed, but a larger amount of theme park With so much focus going to the U.S. parks, it is surprising to many The Japanese market and The Oriental Land Company and it is in environment that a new level of arc can be produced. The more ambitious the storytelling, the more strong the audience's reaction to it. Whether it be negative, positive or just plain confusing. [Halloween-y Jingle]