Consciousness is perhaps the biggest riddle in nature. Stripped to its core meaning, consciousness is what allows us to be aware But thinking about consciousness has We all intuitively know what consciousness is. It's this... It's what you're experiencing here, right now. But once we try to pinpoint just what exactly it is, And not just us, philosophers and scientists Different schools and ideas compete with one another, It's unsettling to realise that we don't understand In this fuzzy area, consciousness and intelligence We'll talk in greater depth about theories of consciousness and intelligence in other videos. Like much of what makes us human, our consciousness is likely to have as a product of evolution by natural selection. It has probably emerged from an immense several that together make up a sort of What was the first step on this to the basic consciousness that ultimately led to the convoluted consciousness we humans enjoy today? [Intro] Take a stone. The consensus is that a stone is not conscious. Some panpsychists claim that However, there are no real grounds for any such Their inner life can neither be proven nor disproven. A more common starting point is with the living things. A living thing, or a self, is a part of the universe To do so, it needs energy. And this is where an awareness The original function of consciousness was probably to a fresh supply of food. On the smaller scales of life, Trichopax adhaerens - one of the simplest It slows down in the presence of food, This is highly effective, and makes the tiny creature spend more time where there is food But it never moves in a particular and there's no need for it to be The first major step towards consciousness was probably taken when mobile selves Moving towards what was good for them, say someone else who thought that they were food. Take Dugesia tigrina - a tiny worm Sometimes the worm is hungry, and sometimes not. This means that when it moves, the worm self is not simply producing an but that its actions depend whether it's hungry or sated. When it's just eaten, but when starved for a while, It uses chemoreceptors on its head and guide it in the direction After finding and eating a meal, our worm buddy heads until it's hungry again. But animals that blindly follow their sense of smell They still lack any sense of where they are heading. So, the next step on the ladder of consciousness like vision. Vision adds context and depth to our world. With vision comes a sense of It adds a whole new dimension to awareness, and is An optical apparatus, like an eye, enables But even at this stage, a self is only able So, the next logical step needs To visualise food in its absence, for example, a self needs to create some sort of Now, an animal can continue looking for food, Because of this inner representation it can remain focused on its food and its desire to get it. Our self now exists in a world it can get familiar with. The ability to remember things has emerged. Thanks to memory, animals can be but quickly continue their path afterwards. A related phenomenon is called 'object permanence'. This describes our awareness that things This cognitive skill is enjoyed by some mammals Human babies tend to develop this ability while baby chickens show this ability The capacity to remember a thing in its absence A sense of time is a big step It may also enable a self to look forward Adult chickens, for example, are able to resist a meal put as a prize for holding back for a while. This sort of delayed gratification means there is an which can be quite a challenge even for adult humans. Western scrub jays are experts in delayed gratification. They show an even more elaborate sense to retrieve it at a later date. The scrub jays will even rehide their food if they become aware that a potential thief has been watching them. This means that they know who are aware and see the world Crafty scrub jays can sort of This ability to mind-read is crucial By putting yourself in the position of others, or empathise with a hungry friend. Language takes the ability to read minds Words enable us to construct make detailed plans, and to Words enable us to think about ourselves and even about our own consciousness, which is something we'll be doing more in future videos. So, what is the origin of our consciousness? It probably began as the directed motion With the survival benefits, this gave it over It probably all started with the urge for more food. So, even with the sophisticated consciousness build skyscrapers, or obsess about novels, it's not surprising that we can't stop thinking Collectively, we've put so much thought that we can now just get our food to This video is part one of a three-part video series made possible by a grant from the You can find our sources and or get the consciousness book If you want to help us make more videos, or get one of our posters from our shop.