Pop quiz hot shot! What's the Pope's favorite pizza topping? I actually don't know but in 1570 it and that's what we're making today. A 16th century Italian pizza served in the Papal So thank you to Bright Cellars as we slice into the history of So this recipe comes from the Opera di Bartolomeo put a link up here in the corner so you can watch The entire book is filled with recipes that are mixture of sweet and spice that our palette might Another way to prepare flakey pizza. Bring together three pounds of fine flour and two crumb that is soaked in warm water, and enough in a warm place to rise as is done with bread. adding in little by little two pounds of fresh worked into the dough and it has become soft. and with each piece make the pizza in a tort pan with melted butter on top. Make several holes on up too much. When it is nearly done sprinkle be baked slowly and serve it hot. So does not really, but frankly the definition of pizza is it's basically soup. Anyway for 4 cups or 480 grams of bread flour, a This will need to have a much higher yeast and so it might take you a little while to to make to use dried yeast I'd use about a teaspoon. soaked in one cup or 240 an additional half cup of 1 pound or 400 grams of So usually during Scappi's time butter would have he specifically in this recipe calls for fresh salt because the salt was added as a preservative. individually in the recipe so we're doing unsalted Two tablespoons of melted butter, one tablespoon Now you'll notice that these are not the exact he must be making a pizza to feed well the I cut everything in half and it's still into the flour, then add your yeast and soaked Then add in the additional half cup of water but This dough ends up being super, super don't add any more water than you If you need to add more later on you Then knead the dough for about 10 minutes Then put it in a lightly greased bowl Now depending on the yeast it could take two but it was so worth the wait. Plus it gave me of today's sponsor Bright Cellars. Now if you've occasionally I do enjoy a glass of wine, and new wines, but whenever I go to the store I always I already know that I'm going to like them. So Cellars. You take a seven question quiz on what Aso if ever you don't like one of the wines that in your next box so you got nothing to lose. I selection of full bodied juicy red wines like this Jaime liked the name so that's why he Que sera, sera. Whatever would be you know. Oh that's nice. It's got a lot of fruit it's everything I like. The quiz worked. Also don't give your cats wine but do let So for viewers of Tasting History 60% off of your first 4-bottle box. and take your quiz to get started. Now Once the dough is risen punch it down and turn it into a square or rectangle and scatter a few cover the butter then knead it until the butter is and again until all of the butter is incorporated. Also as you add butter into this dough and if it comes too sticky to work with just add some more flour. One Just to keep it you know in dough form rather Once all the butter is incorporated and the Then let it rest preferably in the refrigerator preheat your oven to 350 Fahrenheit or 175 of a large pie or cake pan. It's going to work pans it's just easier to get out, but you don't frickin pan that you can find because even halfed lot of dough. You can also half what I'm doing I mean if you don't have a 10 inch Once the dough is rested roll it and form the pizza by layering the dough pieces off by brushing on a layer of melted butter. Then keep it from puffing up too much. Then set the hour and 15 minutes. Now that is a long bake time that gives me time to top off my glass of wine and So when tracking the history of pizza we really your idea of pizza is just some flatbread Egyptians and Indians had pizza, but I don't In the 6th century BC Persian flatbread on their shields and Closer, but pizza? I mean they didn't call it pizza, and frankly if call pancakes that have syrup and berries on Is tostada a pizza? No I don't think so. Well then when does pizza become a thing? Well the very first mention of pizza using It was found in a contract between and the Bishop of Gaeta and basically if &quot;Every year on Christmas Day... you and (twelve pizzas)... and similarly on the day of holy Easter of resurrection.&quot; So even before our papal pizza today, Bishops were Now the first recipe for something called pizza and then some years later in 1570 we have five pizza recipes in Bartolomeo Scappi's Scappi is also the first mention of &quot;To prepare a tourte with various Though some of the ingredients raisins, and cinnamon. None of which are Though now that connection between because Naples is often credited with being but it was not papal pizza it is poor people pizza. It was it was a food for And he didn't seem to hold them in high sounds a lot more like what &quot;The lazzarona usually only eats two things: pizza and watermelon... pizza is round in shape, It comes in different widths, depending on the a two penny should fill a whole the pizza is with bacon, the pizza is with lard, the pizza is with cheese, the pizza is fish.&quot; The word pizza has lost all meaning cheese and tomatoes, And those I would And for more on the amazing you should watch this video up on the history of tomatoes aka the badass Now the Lazzarone mostly ate these pizzas on weekdays as they saved up their money though macaroni did not necessarily And if you still had trouble saving up if you were fine with day Dumas even says, &quot;There are week-old these can, if not pleasantly, replace seafood biscuits.&quot; Week The cheese is old and moldy. I'm guessing it was one of these pizzas of the telegraph to describe pizza as covered over with slices of pomodoro or tomatoes, and sprinkled with little fish and black it all together looks like a piece of of the sewer.&quot; That was probably just a piece Now in general the pizza was and Dumas even says, &quot;You can't eat Was Dumas a drama queen or severely Though I do wonder if Dumas actually mixed which was basically you got fresh it eight days later like layaway, or the Now these pizzas tended to sized pizzas that were sold on Though there were some more reputable including a tavern that was founded di Pietro e basta cosi which stereotypically Italian sounding name ever Peter's And it is in this shop later where we get pizza's most famous origin story. It's probably well- it's definitely not completely In 1889 Umberto I King of a recently unified Italy and his wife Queen Margherita decided to branch and headed to Naples where they the then owner of Pizzeria one with lard, one with fish, and one Queen Margherita tried the first pizza and said this pizza is too fatty. She tried the second Finally she tried the third tomato, and basil and she said and thus was born the pizza Margherita. It even flag: green basil, white mozzarella and red well that's definitely not entirely true, but says that this is how it happened and the story is even with the Queen on board. Pizza still stayed those were the people who brought it to America. poor Italian immigrants brought pizza Now pizza was being sold all over the streets the first place that is credited with the first that's why, is called Lombardi's on and that is just one block from It was so small, great area, bedroom door could not open all the way because I So could you really call it a But pizza still really hadn't taken off outside we would have to go to war. When our brave boys returned home they brought back a love of Italian food, It was the perfect food for the new or it could be made for delivery and pizza places In 1958 Pizza Hut opened. Pizza the Hutt! And in 1960 Tom and James Monaghan and changed the name to Domino's. This is also when frozen pizza was becoming I cannot do Halloween- Halloween has to start but every Halloween I eat myself an just as I did when I was a little kid. I was a chubby kid. I was a man I do love a Red Baron pizza.I What's interesting is that back in Old Italy pizza still hadn't really gotten out of but when American tourists started showing the other parts of Italy had to step up and it didn't go great at first. Some of the that the city of Naples founded AVPN, or which laid the groundwork for what makes a little too late. The cat was already we were making sushi pizza and pizza bagels, and Heck you could even come over and have yourself a pizza with I'm pretty sure my pizza's about done. S and quickly brush on the rose water and sprinkle minutes or until it's baked all the way through, And here we are Scappi's pizza from the Italian it smells amazing. I mean it smells like fresh- it kind of smells like croissants. I let it cool, because the butter needs- so much butter. this a taste. I don't think it- maybe it over Hmm. Hm! That's delicious. It's not pizza. xD I mean that's fantastic. The rose is so subtle. Let me just taste some of the There on the top. That's wonderful. Wow I would make it thinner next really think that that's probably the way to go. You know we're not gonna eat this but is I think it would be like if somebody said hey and then they found out I'm a doctor of you know I mean yeah I'm a doctor but &quot;not a doctor&quot; by the a story but this is some really good pizza, just They'll think you're crazy. Instead tell them is what i'm going to have for dinner tonight. *chomp That's pizza. That's Pizza!