THIS IS GTV! YouTube the way it was meant to be! The Christmas season means many things to But if you're of a certain age, it meant Video games! As many as possible! Maybe that is still the case today for some Each year brings its own stand out must have to bed on Christmas night very happy. But one year, things didn't really go as This is the story of Christmas 1988 and a "Chip Shortage" Tonight! GTV presents this special program: Nuts FROM 1988, was the year of Nintendo. When the company's fortunes exploded. When they were not only the market leader, It was the year when video games as an industry For the first time, Nintendo was getting mainstream At the time Nintendo was caught in a media TV news shows covered the company as a "hot Panic, some was genuine interest and a lot understand what exactly their kids were asking It could have been an even bigger year for off guard and couldn't deliver enough games People called it a "Chip Shortage." At least that's one of the stories that Some people felt that Nintendo were holding a crazed market who would buy up anything, to buy Nintendo's games when you see them, wouldn't get the chance again. But how much of the "Chip Shortage" was How much of it was media spin? Did Nintendo purposely short their inventories In this report, I'll dissect the events it against information not known at the time If you wrote a letter to Santa in 1988, stay You won't want to miss a second of this. Where were you when you first got Super Mario How about The Adventure of Link? These two games, along with others, were released Chances are you DIDN'T play them that year! Sure there were a lucky few who got one or But 1988 was a year where supply and demand Let's try to go back in time. To put yourself in the shoes of a person young happening. Entering 1988, Nintendo had clearly dethroned in America. In 1985 they released the Nintendo Entertainment markets in 1986 and by 1987 was available In 1987 Nintendo sold over 3 million Nintendo NESS or NEZ to some people. Atari, fell to second place, selling just With all those NESs went a lot of games. The Legend of Zelda, Metroid, Kid Icarus, machines, Super Mario Bros. The cohort of NES owners of these first few Fun Club News, inside were tips and tricks In 1988, 7 million MORE NESs were sold. Those new owners would also be looking excitedly With over 10 million machines in American had to be made to make everyone happy. Fine, so.... just make more! Well.. it was a little more complicated than The two games that caused the biggest headaches Adventure of Link. But of course as a kid, no one really understood I mean yes, everyone knew why they were sold But every time someone would ask a clerk at in, they had no real answer. Let's put this into perspective as to why frustrated by this "Chip Shortage" Nintendo of America first announced Zelda the original Legend of Zelda was released. The Fall 1987 issue of Nintendo Fun Club News The next issue, Winter 1987, showed screen come in a gold Game Pak, just like the original With this info in mind, it seemed like Zelda It's also worth pointing out that Dragon line, which is another game that came much The next issue February / March 1988 had a The game was originally planned to be released The April May 1988 issue had Zelda 2 on the Yet! If you went to a store right after reading It was not available yet! The next issue June/ July 1988 had an article And for the first time Nintendo admits a chip Nintendo Fun Club News was renamed Nintendo from July/August 1988 is very well known, another game seemingly finished but no where Nintendo Power was first media about Nintendo News. The Super Mario 2 issue ran a feature about only a short paragraph about the Adventure It would lead many kids just coming aboard to show off by mid 1988. But the game was finished, just stuck in limbo! For what its worth Nintendo Power did announce in October. Nintendo then moved the release back to November would be available. Zelda 2 was on the cover in January 1989 with I was fortunate enough to actually find a in October 1988! Solely based on the fact that my family had putting the game on the shelf. Everyone within viewing range of the electronics I came up empty handed on Zelda 2 but another end up arranging a trade: Mario 2 for Zelda Probably the only instance in America at the A game trade SO legendary that it's STILL Elementary School. The news media started to report on Nintendo game market. The best story out of the bunch and certainly on ABC's news magazine 20/20, airing Friday Mr. Belvedere. In his "Nuts For Nintendo" package, John craze. One guy even drove from Indiana to New York Mario 2 and/or Zelda 2. The kids love the games, and some parents goes into playing games. If they were in public school, that's probably ones for you. But the parents were also concerned that they that their kids were asking for. John Stossel delved into the question of why, out of stock? Despite Nintendo being around for 3 years at this point, there had never been problems There were interviews with industry experts. including members of Acclaim, a third party They all spoke of the unprecedented growth John Stossel visited Nintendo in both Japan He got to see how the games were made, saw soon go on sale. He spoke with Peter Main, who said he had brushed off the idea that Nintendo was purposefully John Stossel even told Barbara Wawa, he stayed this piece and that his son loved Duck Hunt! In the end it was a great package and a wonderful up late, waiting for my dad to come home from EVERY kid in school saw it as it was probably show on the playground come Monday morning. I'm going to go off track here but only John Stossel was the one to cover this topic. He always had a style that challenged the in a way no other journalists did and he covered over many sacred cows in the process. In a way John Stossel was a bit of inspiration working as a TV news director and worked for occasionally with the 11pm local news. I even kind of look like the guy, with the It wasn't the only news story about Nintendo 48 Hours and Inside Edition also had similar of local stations. The all marveled at the success of Nintendo, that games are likely, here to stay. But what of the "Chip Shortage?" Was a fact or fiction? When we come back, I dig deep to find the conspiracy or reality... The the goings at Nintendo, but never really nailed sold out. Other than that they were extremely popular. John Stossel did a great job, but his piece 45 minutes probably, after commercials. He didn't have much time to get his story who might not know how an NES works, getting audience. But the answer to the "Chip Shortage" It was a phrase that was used a lot, in stores, It was a term that's pretty easy to grasp. Video games have chips inside them, and there But a chip shortage isn't just limited to It's a phenomenon that affects the whole And it's actually pretty common. In the industry it's known as a chip famine. I guess people who spent their days watching understand the word famine... As technology moves forward, computing standards chips to be made. When an increase in performance is significant and outstrip the current supply until the long that may be. While this is happening, the market and the generation and the next generation. As the newer chips become the standard, the goes towards the newer chips. The supply will increase and the price will Another leap in technology will happen some itself, typically every 4 to 6 years. Sometimes natural disasters, like fires or In some cases geopolitical factors like trade distribution, leading to shortages. Looking outside the specific case of 1988, of RAM. In 2000,. Sony had shortages of the PlayStation 2 in And Nintendo, again, had a shortage of Wii demand. In 2016 the NES Classic had the same issue. But these are all hardware, which are more components overall compared to software. Also the supposed "Chip Shortage" only Zelda II: The Adventure of Link. Of course if you couldn't find those games, And if your kids were asking Santa for new Admittedly, it felt a little fishy that Nintendo knowing the numbers they sold in 1987 would games, giving kids the expectation that you In the years that followed 1988, the truth and practices. There were Court decisions where Nintendo rentals and third party licensing. Books like Game Over by David Sheff and Console of the industry. All of these materials showed how Nintendo as king of the hill. Nintendo had instituted a strict policy for on the NES. Game cartridges had to carry a chip inside to run. Without the OK from Nintendo, it wouldn't That's standard practice these days. But Nintendo also limited the number of game They had clauses in the licensing contracts the same game for a competing machine for Nintendo also controlled the number of copies If a game didn't sell well enough, Nintendo And ALL NES games were manufactured and distributed party publisher paying for the privilege of Games on a chip also took quite a long amount To get a game from the production line to that's under ideal circumstances! The norm today for a game on Blu Ray disk Digital downloads even less than that! It might be hard to remember that but there and wait, hoping to get lucky. On the retail end, some stores that sold NES didn't approve of, or by their competition. Nintendo ended business with stores that did. Nintendo NEVER accepted return stock or price Many of these moves were done to enforce a Defenders of Nintendo say that these measures Critics have called it greedy, and have said These practices helped build the case that of Nintendo's dirty tricks. However all of this does lead to some hard Nintendo games would command top dollar and When the sales of certain games slowed down, So you had to constantly be on the lookout it! So while there was talk of a chip shortage, games, it wasn't entirely the fault of Nintendo. During their ascent, the Semiconductor industry Other Japanese chip manufacturers, like Toshiba and business computers in the United States Much cheaper than domestic manufacturers could This practice is known as dumping. In the 1980s the Japanese yen was very weak Japanese companies could afford to take a too dramatic when converting back to Japanese leaving the marketplace all for themselves, to lack of competition. The dumping of Japanese computer chips lead talks that led to a trade pact in 1986. This pact forbade Japan from selling chips easier working permissions in Japan, which The pact led to some unintended consequences Japanese manufacturers stopped selling mass Sure, Japanese chips were still available, the lowest possible price was much higher American manufactures were still in the game, of America's games were made in Japan with This Pact and diverting supply coincided with The standard of computing performance was The standard chips of the time of the 1986 while the next generation would be 1 megabit, As is the case each time, to accommodate the kilobit chips stopped, leading to a split The changeover to the 1 megabit process went from there throughout 1988. The 256 kilobit D-RAM chips were soon to be needed for ZELDA 2!! Nintendo was caught between these two events. First Nintendo and its suppliers were restrained 2 in particular, required the kind of chip All while demand for its games were exploding. Nintendo may have seen these events coming. In 1986, Nintendo in Japan released a peripheral Computer, called the Disk System, that would Games would cost only 2500 yen. About $15. And to rewrite an old disk with a new game Many of Nintendo's games including Zelda off of, Doki Doki Panic, were only sold on America never got this peripheral, but it In America the situation was actually more Nintendo let some games fall out of print. Older games like Balloon Fight, and Ice Climber could be used for newer games. Donkey Kong And Donkey Kong Jr. would also Kong Classics, which had both games combined, print while using half the materials. It wasn't only Nintendo. PC makers were hurting but so were Atari and Together Atari and Sega had less than 15% as Sega pushed some games back to 1989 and prices and supply. It really seemed like no one was safe from With this information in mind, it really changes didn't know about, back then. When we come back I give my thoughts and opinions In 1988. As the calendar turned to 1989, talk of the More PCs adopted 1 megabit chips and talk which would create the same issue all over Nintendo's games adopted larger chips and A new generation of 16-bit hardware was also Copies of Zelda 2, Super Mario 2 and other still not as many as people would have liked. Despite the chip shortage, Nintendo sold 33 estimated they could have sold 12 million Of the 33 million, Super Mario Bros 2 and By the end of the Nintendo Entertainment System's copies. Zelda 2 sold 4 million copies, which includes The US Japan Semiconductor Trade Pact of 1986 By that time it didn't affect gamers quite As games had mostly moved from Cartridge to The news media moved on, but kept games on over again. But to go back to the main point here, was Or a coverup by Nintendo? Based on all the evidence I've found for no! Nintendo was not shorting supply on purpose. These games, Mario 2 and Zelda 2 were planned were just not available and this coincided Nintendo could have handled it all better however happy they were for all the free advertising. However, The Chip Shortage, and later the really turned me off from them after the NES In the end, being Nuts for Nintendo really We learned how the behind the scenes work We learned how games were manufactured and We learned that they took time and money and And we learned to have a little patience in we asked for and that we might have to leave Or maybe next year's birthday.