It's been a while since I posted. It's melody. In addition to the gingerbread house cookie cutter, which has been requested a lot since last year, we will also introduce how to make dough suitable for gingerbread. Please save this video. [Ingredients for gingerbread cookie dough] 37 x 25 (cm) Approximately 4 baking sheets (dough thickness 5 mm) *Soft flour...540g *Salt...1.5g *Pure cocoa powder...5g *To taste Appropriate amount of powdered spices (cinnamon, cardamom, ginger, etc.) *Unsalted butter...200g *Sugar...200g *Whole eggs...2 pieces (100-110g) *Vanilla oil...appropriate amount *This time Although the base is not made in the video, there is enough room to make the base and other decorative cookies.I usually use almond flour cookie dough, but I want to make large cookies like gingerbread. To make a dough that doesn't break easily, I don't add almond flour and replace it with soft flour. Also, by adding more sugar than usual, it will be more difficult to break. 150-200g of icing cream is enough to make a gingerbread house, but if you are making icing cookies for the base and other decorations, please prepare around 300g. *I have made a separate video for the icing cream recipe. Let the butter and eggs come to room temperature. This time we will be using a lot of flour, so I recommend using a bowl as big as possible. If it's a large chunk, roughly chop it. If using powdered sugar, shake it. If you are using brown sugar or cane sugar, you can leave it as is. Next, sift together the flour. Add as many spices as you like. I added cinnamon, cardamom, and ginger. I think nutmeg would also be good. 1.5g salt 5g pure cocoa powder 2 whole eggs Vanilla oil Appropriate amount Beat the room temperature butter until it becomes soft and creamy. Add powdered sugar or sugar and mix thoroughly. Divide the beaten egg into it in 3 to 4 times and mix thoroughly. If you keep stirring even if it seems like it's going to separate, it will emulsify and become smooth. If you use a hand mixer or stand mixer, use a low speed mode and keep an eye on the process , as mixing too vigorously at high speeds may cause water separation and accelerate separation. It's OK if it becomes smooth like custard cream. Add the sifted flour in two parts. It's hard because there's a lot of powder, but do your best! The dough is a little stiff, so mix it by hand at the end. The total amount is about 1000g, so divide it into 200g portions. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap to prevent air from entering. Let stand in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. Let the rested dough come to room temperature a little and roll it out to 5mm thickness. The dough is less likely to warp after baking with a thickness of 5mm than with a thickness of 4mm. Once rolled out, chill in the freezer for 2 hours to overnight to harden. After receiving many requests, we would like to introduce the gingerbread house cookie cutter that is finally available for sale. The one on the right is the prototype mold made in 2023, and the one on the left is the new one for sale. I widened the width of the front and back walls by 1cm on each side, 2cm in total, to make it look more like a gingerbread house. We also added a bridge to prevent distortion when pulling out the fabric. A bridge is also attached to the side wall. The roof has also been improved. The one on the right is the 2023 prototype, and the one on the left is the new model. I made it bigger so that the eaves would stick out. I also made one side wavy to make it cute and easy to make. This is a basic gingerbread house set. Let the frozen dough stand at room temperature for 1 to 2 minutes before removing it from the mold. If you use the mold upside down, you can use the bridge to mark the center. You can remove the entrance and use it as a door. I always just leave a mark. Remove the round window. Take out the window. This small square is a dormer part sold separately. If you cut it out using the &quot;Dormer Parts&quot; (sold separately) mold, the fabric will be pushed outwards and become slightly distorted, so this will need to be corrected. This is also a new cookie cutter snowflake. The only snowflakes on the market are pentagonal ones, so I really wanted a hexagonal snowflake, so I made one. (Parts for the dormer and chimney are shown, but we will not use them this time.) ``Parts for the door'' (sold separately) ``Parts for the dormer'' (sold separately) How to assemble the door and the dormer can be found in ``2023 Hexen House'' Please refer to the video. Preheat the oven to 180 degrees and set for 25 minutes. When baking large and small parts together, take out the small parts after 12 minutes and continue baking the large parts for a longer time to make them harder and harder to break. Large cookies tend to crack after they cool. To prevent cracks caused by sudden temperature changes, do not remove the baked goods from the oven immediately after baking, but leave the door open in the oven and wait until the cooling fan has stopped before removing the baked goods. You want to bake the second time right away while the oven is still hot, but let the cookies cool as slowly as possible. While the front and rear walls are being baked, remove the roof and side walls. Also remove the window on the side wall. Use a short piece of straw to cut out a hole for the ribbon to pass through. Leave a space about 1.5cm below the top edge. This is also a new model, but it is a snowflake S size with a skylight removed. If you can't put it in the oven right away, let it stand by in the refrigerator. Cut out the entrance pouch using the remaining fabric. This is a mold for chimney parts sold separately. Once baked, let it cool. We will make it using these 10 parts including the snowflake and the entrance pouch. As I did in last year's video, I used a cheese grater to shave the pieces so that they fit together neatly. If you don't mind this cleavage, you don't need to remove it. Of course, it is possible to assemble walls without cutting them diagonally. Now I'm going to pour Palatinit (candy) on the window. It would be helpful to have some stainless steel trays from the 100 yen shop. The snowflake will fit right after the Palatinite is washed away, so keep it nearby. You can use a heat-resistant silicone cup to melt the Palatinite, but some of them are soft and unstable, so I use a heat-resistant glass container with a small spout. When the candy melts, the container will get hot, so wear rubber gloves. It is easiest to dissolve about 15g at a time. Adding 3-4 drops of water makes it easier to dissolve and prevents it from burning. Melt it in the microwave at 600W for 1 to 2 minutes, keeping an eye on it. While heating, do not leave the microwave unattended and keep an eye on the inside of the microwave. Even if large bubbles appear, if there is some palatinit that remains white and melted, continue heating. While working, if it starts to cool and harden, heat it again and it will melt. If you repeat the heating many times, it will start to burn and change color little by little. Even if there are large bubbles, they will almost disappear once they cool down. If you leave it at room temperature, it will cool and solidify in about 20 minutes. Once the paratinite has hardened, ice the surface of the cookie. Gingerbread cookies are often decorated unglazed, but if they get damp during assembly, they can easily break. Also, if you draw a line directly on the surface of an unglazed cookie, it will tend to peel off after it dries, so it is best to paint the entire surface. Once the base is completely dry, stencil Santa and his reindeer. This stencil is now available in a different size from this design released in 2022, twice the size both vertically and horizontally. Roughly coat the surface with royal icing loosened with water . You can apply this or not as you like. After drying, the surface of real wood looks frozen. From now on, please finish it with your favorite design. When I draw an arabesque pattern, I always think on the spot, so my hands sometimes get lost or stop halfway through . When I was a child, I admired the gingerbread house that was displayed at the entrance of a pastry shop. ``Someday, I want to make a cute candy house too...'' I think those thoughts from those days have shaped me into the person I am today. And now, I would be happy if children who saw my gingerbread house thought they would like to make one someday. And I still believe in Santa. By the way, as I mentioned in a post the other day, the video for ``2023 Christmas Tree Collection 20'' has been viewed over 1 million times! Look, Santa does exist after all. We would like to express our sincere gratitude to everyone who watched the show. And thank you for all the comments, likes, and channel subscriptions! I don't post frequently, but please continue to visit. Once the icing is dry, it's time to assemble! I won't make a base this time either. This area is the same as Hexen House in 2023. Put them together before each part is completely dry. Once it's almost dry, reinforce it from the inside. Let it dry until completely hardened. Once it has completely hardened, add caulk from the outside to reinforce it. Decorate with white icing. This time I will tie it with a ribbon so the roof will not be glued. I wonder when it will be completed... And a new reindeer cookie cutter has also joined the group! Please take a look at our online store. here we go! It's finally nearing completion! Turn on a small LED light. I love the magical light shining through the windows. This completes the process. How will you spend your holiday season this year? Have fun preparing your Christmas cookies while using my video as background music ! Thank you for watching the long video to the end. See you again in the next video!