Welcome everyone. My name is Meric Gertler and it is my privilege We're gathered online from around the University Professor Emeritus Geoffrey Geoff Hinton is internationally recognized of artificial neural networks his multi-disciplinary research program is but also to physics, cognitive psychology, and information theory. Professor Hinton has had a profound he has literally created new ways of thinking The algorithms he and his students They underpin the data processing and that are now in astonishingly Professor Hinton's foundational have led to widespread scholarly acclaim and even So much so that he is frequently Professor Hinton has spent some at the University of Toronto where he was named University Professor, in 2006. Due in large part to his leadership and U of T has developed into a global leader This includes the ethical consequences and a topic that Professor Hinton helping focus the world's attention It is my honour and great pleasure to introduce Geoffrey Hinton 2024 Nobel Professor Hinton, welcome. - Thank you very much. I'm still slightly in shock. I got a phone call at one o'clock I thought about whether and luckily I decided I would see and I was extremely surprised I never expected that. I think of the prize as a recognition who worked on neural networks I particularly like to acknowledge David Rumelhart with whom I worked David died of a nasty but for that he would And my colleague Terry Sejnowski who I worked with a lot in the and who taught me a lot I'd also like to acknowledge my students. many very clever students, who actually made things work. They've gone on to do great things. I'm particularly proud of the fired Sam Altman. And I think I better leave it there - Thank you so much Geoff. We will now take questions I invite my colleague Lisa Pires from to moderate our Q&amp;A. - Thank you president Gertler. To ensure we can answer we will be taking written questions only. So please include your name and when submitting your questions you'll see at the bottom of your screen. We'll take a minute now - While we're taking a minute I should also acknowledge who were close colleagues and were - We see a question in our Q&amp;A Adrian if you wouldn't mind typing in your Thank you so much Adrien. Dr Hinton what do you when it comes to AI. - I'm hoping AI will lead to to tremendous increases and to a better life for everybody. I'm convinced that it will do My worry is that it may And in particular when we get things no one really knows whether we're - Our next question comes This is another one for Dr Hinton. She asks, how would you use a neural network - I'm not quite sure how a neural - Okay I've got a followup She asks again of Dr Hinton how is the Canadian research landscape And what is the biggest hurt to reaching - Let me just think about that um. Obviously a big difference that neural networks actually work but much of the landscape's similar so there's an organization called the Canadian that is a big help for people doing research I think the main thing about Canada as a money as there is in the US but it uses its money quite wisely. In particular the main funding council uses money for basic and all of these came out of basic not out of throwing money but out of letting scientists follow their and Canada is quite good at that. - Thank you. Our next question comes from They say congratulations. Both you and Dr Hopfield have warned of the and not understanding enough How do we avoid catastrophic scenarios? - We don't know how to that's why we urgently So I'm advocating that our best should work on AI safety and governments should to provide the computational facilities - Our next one is from Tara Deschamps again for Professor Hinton. She asks, for a long time AI was not seen like it is today. I wonder if you could share to work on the underpinnings before it was so ubiquitous. - It was a lot of fun doing the research but it was slightly annoying that in the field of AI, said that neural They were very confident that these and we would never be able like for example understanding using neural networks, and they were wrong. - The next question comes from this is his second question. He asks of Dr Hinton can you elaborate Do you believe it might become Why, and how quickly do you - Okay, so most of the believe that AI will become They vary on the time scales. A lot of them believe that that will Some of them believe Some of them believe But quite a few good researchers AI will become more And we need to think hard - We don't have the name of the next but they do have a fun one. Who was your first call when you - My sister in Australia. - Follow up to that, what was the reaction? - I think she said something like - Our next one is a follow-up question from she's from Canadian Press and she asks of Professor Hinton you when you got the news Can you tell us a bit about - Yes I have very little sleep. It was 1 o'clock in the morning and by the time the phone went. I'm in California and um since then I probably so I'm rather sleep deprived now. And it's just been lots and lots of people but also lots of messages I haven't seen in a long time - Our next question comes from Isabelle again for Professor Hinton. She asks, Professor Hinton how do you with your outspokenness about and the risks that technology poses? I've never recommended slowing because I don't think that's feasible. AI has so many good effects, like in healthcare, that I think there's no chance of So, can you say the second - Absolutely. She asks, how do you reconcile with their outspokenness about and the risks the technology poses. - Okay so actually the Nobel committee recognized that my work on talking I can't remember exactly what they said I think we need a serious effort because if we can keep - We have a followup again for and again from Issam Ahmed Do you think students on LLMs is going to have or will we operate on a higher order? I don't think it will have a I think it'll be like what happened and people said oh kids won't learn math Well you don't need to be able to do and I think it'll be the same with LLMs. People maybe won't remember as many facts that you can but I think it'll make people - Thank you. A followup from He asks, if I could ask one more question he says you use the word flabbergasted Why were you so surprised? I had absolutely no idea that I'm not a physicist. I have very high respect I dropped out of physics after because I couldn't do the complicated math so getting an award in physics I'm very pleased that the Nobel been huge progress in the area of and Hopfield's work was and some of the early work I did with was inspired by statistical physics but more recently the work has and so I was very surprised that - Our next question comes from who asks of Professor Hinton can you please elaborate on your comment - So Open AI was set up with Its primary objective was to develop and ensure that it was safe. One of my former students, was the chief scientist it turned out that Sam Altman was than with profits and - Thank you our next question this is again a question for Professor Hinton. Ai and the need for greater understanding of its do you believe governments look at How can governments - I think governments can to spend more of their So at present almost all of the resources so they can have shiny new models. And there's a big competition going on, and that's good, but we need to accompany that with a comparable effort on AI safety. The effort needs It needs to be like maybe a third because if this stuff becomes - Our next question is from she asks of Professor Hinton any plans - No specific plans. But um I know one charity which provides jobs for I will give it to some other charities - Our next question for Professor Hinton who asks, do you have any serious consequences in the future? By that they mean how people should as you warned it can be dangerous. - I don't think individual people is going to solve the problems. I think the people developing AI need to be careful how they develop it and I think research needs to be done in the big I'm not convinced that the way individual people - Our next question is another followup from Issam Hinton they ask I know you said it's hard to to Hazard a stab at some rough areas of concern - So there are many different risks from AI So immediate risks are things like We've already seen politicians either accuse other people of using and fake images. So that's one immediate danger. There's also cyber attacks. So last year for example there was a 1200% and that's because these large language models make it very easy to do phishing attacks. And you can no longer recognize them by and the syntax is slightly odd. - Next question comes from Victoria and she asks of Professor Hinton you've spoken a few times today and the Ontario Science Centre. Why is that top of mind So the Ontario Science Centre was very important in encouraging curiosity It had some problems with the roof The estimate for the renovation but the government then told the people to multiply that by 1.85 in order to get a much bigger number so And the reasons it was knocked down as far as I can see. and it would would be - Next is another question from for Professor Hinton she says when people talk about the AI and your name always comes up as But people also say the country has to be careful not to squander the opportunities What do you think Canada can do to hold on to its status as a major - It can keep funding That's very important for keeping But in this age of artificial neural networks we also need um significant computational And the government is trying they set aside $2 billion for computational resources for AI research so I think they're doing what they can. Obviously we're a much smaller but given the resources they have - Our next question comes from U of T who asks of Professor Hinton You persisted with research even during periods of waning among the scientific community. Do you have a message about persisting with endeavors that - I think my message is this: If you believe in something don't give up on it until you understand Often you believe in things why that's a wrong thing to believe in but so long as you believe in something like the brain has to work somehow how it learns the connection so long as you believe in that keep and don't let people tell if you can't see why it's nonsense. - Thank you. our next question comes from Yasuhiro Kobayashi and they are they ask when will AI surpass human capabilities? - So nobody knows when but most of the good researchers My guess is it probably happen It might be longer. There's a very small And we don't know what's So if you look around, there are very few examples of more intelligent which makes you wonder whether when AI it's going to take over control. - Thank you Professor Hinton we but we are happy to stay anybody has any Please do use the Q&amp;A toolbox and give us your name and We do have time for a couple Another one from Rahul at U of T News. He asks of President Gertler he's asking how do you expect to reverberate through the university - Well I think it's going to have very positive one. I was a very young assistant another eminent scientist won the Nobel Prize in chemistry and I can remember how when John got that wonderful news and it has continued to not just in chemistry but I think Geoff's win today will boosting morale across the university but also helping us attract and retain Geoff has already talked about that in and think one cannot overstate the impact of a win like this on the ability of Canada, be able to welcome talented newcomers great the country and around the world because of - Thank you president Gertler we are now another question from Issam Ahmed from AFP they ask what are the exciting - Okay um I'm 76 and I'm not going to do I'm going to spend my time advocating for people to work I think there very exciting frontiers in robotics in getting AI to be skilled At present we're much better or than artificial neural nets It may take a bit longer in that area though. I also think these large language models are So the latest model from Open Ai the latest versions of Gemini, are getting and I think that's going - Our next question comes from Victoria and this is for Professor Hinton. She asks, you offered some such as cyber attacks, false videos, etc. Can you share some more specific examples - Oh yes. So if you think a large part of the Ontario It can make a tremendous So I actually made a prediction in 2016 that by now AI would be reading all the That prediction was wrong. It may be another five years before AI is going to be much better at diagnosis. So already um if you a doctor gets 40% correct an AI system gets 50% correct and the combination of the doctor which is a big Improvement. \ In North America several hundred With AI diagnosis is going But the thing that's you'll be able to have who has seen 100 million patients and knows huge amounts at dealing what whatever your AI family doctor will have - Thank you Professor Hinton. We no longer see any other questions but again we do have time so if anybody on the call would we again invite you to include your name and the and type out those questions in the While we wait for any of those Professor Hinton we that we haven't touched on today that you would like to mention or anything that we've kind of missed here with with all the various press questions? - One thing we've only touched on briefly is the role of curiosity-driven basic research. So artificial neural nets, the groundwork was all almost all done by just following their curiosity. And funding that kind of it's not as expensive as other but it lays the foundation for things that later are very - Thank you we've got another one Possibly a followup to what you were saying She says why do you think we haven't yet reached the point you in healthcare? Are there any barriers left to One barrier is the medical There's good reasons for that. If people die when you make a mistake it's a good policy to be but they're relatively slow Another reason is AI systems would be better than They're now comparable with radiologists and better at a few. I think another few years they'll And what we'll see is collaborations between the AI system reads the scan and the radiologist and after a while the AI systems will - Okay great thank you Professor Hinton That is all the time So in the chat box you will see if you have additional questions. You should see it popping up media.relations@utoronto.ca So at this point I will now ask president - Well thank you Lisa thank you Geoff and congratulations once again on this I'm sure I speak for the entire and indeed for all of Canada and for your many many friends and when I say how incredibly proud that have been recognized today. Thank you also to everyone for joining Cheers.