Hi, today I want to talk about the Pareto how it applies to language learning. We often hear it said that a account for 70 80 percent of the And therefore people suggest that if words that we will be able to short So that's what I'm going to get into. First let's look at the Pareto So Pareto, Vilfredo Pareto was a professor in Switzerland back in the early 1900s. And he discovered that in Italy, by 20 percent of the people. He then noticed that the same And of course, inequality of wealth, life today, and I'll show you these which is a little different from in all countries, when it comes to controls between 60 to 80 or more So that's. Still is the case today. However, the Pareto principle and this or more people pay attention to it in production and quality control. And that's because of a professor Juran United States, States started using this issues and quality control issues. And he talked about the most useful that the remaining 80 percent were And that again, has application to deal with high frequency words and the But insofar as the 80 20 in so many different situations. A small percentage of criminals. Commit most of the crime, a small occupying most of the hospital beds. In computing, it was said that if you bugs in a piece of software, You'll Conversely, it said that 80 written in 20 percent of the time. But the corollary to that is you to finalize that 20 percent of And so this again has application end up spending most of our time Words, even though the high frequency content of any particular context. Let's move on then to how I use the 80 And I'm going to refer to my Turkish, So first of all, let's deal So the most frequent 500 words, Of any given context. What can we draw from that? What I draw from that is I needn't on those high frequency words, because I know that down the road, I'm going to learning the Less frequent words, the high they're going to show up and I'm going To some extent, the same is true You could Google and look at, the 80 20 rule to language learning. You can Google the most frequent errors or English, Chinese And you can say, okay, people who focus in on the main problems But here again, my experience is I know it's cases it's aspects me difficulty in Turkish. It's the verbs. There's so many different I think verbs are usually there but prepositions, case endings. Pronouns, there's any number of different problems that we encounter in grammar. But again, my experience has been those in all kinds of different them so that focusing in on those However, 20 rule in my language am I going to spend my time? I have spoken before of what I Input learning, consuming a lot of And then there is this bits and the case endings in Slavic languages. It might be verb endings in Italian or whatever it might be. It's not that I don't do that. I do some of that. I do look up grammar I have my lessons with my tutor. So I do spend time on the nuts and bolts. But 80 percent of my time language and acquiring words. And the reason for that is that if access more interesting content. I can actually understand some of the So that as I go forward in the language, words and the words, which includes a acquired through the 80 percent big So it's not that I don't do any I do some, but I try to I spend on that, for example, So I started back in 2018. You can see from this graph spent a lot of time listening. You can see my statistics from my playlist In fact, initially I spent most of my time the language, to get some words in me. to get a toehold in the language, mini story, not at the same time, to them and I go back to them. And so that was in a way, the language was new to me. So I was just bombarding my brain looking at explanations. Of course, I bought grammar books, Now, when I started up again in I'm saying, I've got to dramatically to be dealing with things of interest. And so that my major emphasis been on increasing my vocabulary. And yet, when I talked to my tutor, in some of the most basic patterns I have in producing, verb forms. As I'm now a month away from going to more time on the bits and pieces. And I do that by going back into my focus on verbs, high frequency verbs. And so when I go to them now again, things that I didn't notice before. Because after a while, if we're again, We are noticing less and less. So after an absence, then I go back. Another thing to remember is, even if back something, or thought I could remember chances are, I can't remember it now. So we have to be aware of the fact that We won't necessarily be able And so therefore I think And I always make sure that I mix the So even now, when I say I'm going to it's still a small amount of time because my brain isn't paying much attention. So when I switch back to my history of Cause even though I don't understand I'm more, I'm hanging onto the words Another thing that's useful, I find, with the bits and pieces is to have to reassemble the sentence. That's particularly good with mini stories sentences are short. I have heard them many times and then I It's a form of being focused How the verbs work, how the genitive So I try to maintain a good balance and bits and pieces learning. And perhaps beyond the idea that I want it might be, between big picture and time, I asked myself, am I enjoying it? When we start out in a language, relatively repetitive, uninteresting There's a sense of achievement more and a little bit more. We often think we've learned something we can't use it because it's somehow can't bring it out when you need it. But am I enjoying it? And when I stop enjoying it, then I And there again, going Learning about the Turks, about about Anatolia, about whatever it Three Daughters of Eve, learning psychological issues of modern day Turks. So that's interesting. So my guide is, am I And if I'm enjoying what I'm When I now find it Too frustrating so many unknown words and that comfortable being in easier content, But by and large, I think I try to with big picture top down learning, percent of time that I need to spend So I hope that was helpful. I've left some links here on the subject and I'm curious how all of you use the 80 Bye for now.