That's why I love coming home I get to see the stories from a I am so happy to be back but Two years, you know guys going and you come back to South Africa and I went away for two years, I come back and white people are on strike I thought it was a Leon Shuster sketch In the street, white and immediately you are like No experience what so ever and white people I am not trying but I am just going to say it doesn't have the same gravity of the march of black people and colored people because when people of color in South Africa when white people march it looks like it's just not the same. and then I saw white people got offended because they said we are Zuma must go! Zuma must fall! and then black people didn't join and white people are like Ja why won't they join hey? we are marching for this country and because it's racism that why No, guys, guys, guys, if black people are not joining your it's because of rhythm I saw white people even if I was on your side I can not participate in that the best white marchers was three old white ladies who had the worst struggle song sounded like a lullaby converted Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Yo, I can't march to that guys I don't even know where to begin you realize marches are ten present of every march is the when black people march you need along the way you need just some people who get into some people are just there as you walk past *People Striking* People are joining. people are joining It's got power! you guys, black people are you need a march that will move you every stride has purpose in it *People striking* moving! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! Zuma must go! guys we are not even getting No chance. Marching with that song to Pretoria by the time we get there Chilling there in his house in Dubai Laughing *Zuma Lauging* &quot;Did they only arrive just now&quot; I was watching white Why you marching? Hey, now you want to Just pay someone like usual. This is when you should be paying. Just get a professional, a specialist. Just be there, &quot;Johannes?&quot; &quot;I have a lot of grudges with this country and I have noticed that you have impeccable rhythm and so I would like to hire your services.&quot; &quot;I got you what's your feeling?&quot; &quot;I just want them to &quot;Okay, got it.&quot; *Marching* &quot;That's what I wanted to do.&quot; Hire a specialist That song will get you nowhere. It's a frustrating time though man The Gupta's came and turned things upside down made us question who I was gone for two years, I came the racial tension is all of the sudden everyone is looking You are like damn, Mc Kenzy did a good job. Because don't get me wrong South Africa You know 2010 had us in a different feeling We had rhythm, we had a plan and then all of the sudden it fell with shifty eyes. Separated. Gupta's did a good job. People are angry and I but sometimes I think people's like I saw people fighting because the Gupta's had a wedding at Sun City. and at that wedding they only and people where like, they are racist! Okay, maybe they are racist or maybe the Gupta's are doing what every black person dreams of and that is white people Which black man in this audience cant say he doesn't and he was sitting there some white guy came up to the table, &quot;Good afternoon gentlemen, can &quot;Oh yeah we are just you can send him over.&quot; No, gents. My name is Johnny, I am Oh, you are the waiter? you are the guy serving us? That's correct guys. Oh wow, look at that. Well in that case Johnny lets start with the just riddle it off, riddle it off. Okay guys we have a gazpacho We have also got a seafood salad On the dessert side the chef is doing and then our special line fish of the day Okay, thank you very much, just See you in a bit Johnny. Thank you very much guys. Hey, can you believe it huh? Can you believe it, on my Hey, Johnny, Johnny! Johnny! Yeah, whats going on guys? Uh, nothing. Carry on, carry on. This is power.