Please welcome back to the Sir. [CROWD CHEERING] [MUSIC PLAYING] Take your time. Thanks for having me. - Take your time. - William. Our country, we are in You've written books on You have a whole line of-- The killing books. The killing-- a children's about killing presidents. Is the time we're are we in a unique time of polarization? Or, as you looked back of terrible tragedy are there similarities Yeah, it's not unique, and the corporate media So-- JON STEWART: You're tweets were not a part of-- He had to, like, get a pigeon Right. Limited. But the assassins all They're all mentally ill-- all of them. And most of them did because they were in a rage. And you're going to find out fits both of those categories. That has been in human So do you believe, then, I mean, John Wilkes Booth was But he was also mentally ill. Well, John Wilkes Booth and racist who hated Lincoln-- JON STEWART: Good thing that's Well-- [LAUGHTER] That's what I'm saying. I was saying it, too. I'm saying that's good. We were both saying No, we're obviously - We're simpatico. Exactly. Don't throw Latin into it. I'm sorry. So it's not new. JON STEWART: Right. But we're now in a society JON STEWART: It's incentivized. That's right. And I'm on-- the hate a little bit because but they're going to because they get They're so untalented. JON STEWART: But you and I-- Oh, boy. I want to make this point, have a history, all right? We go back. But if you watch, all right, Stewart and I-- Ships passing in a night. It's really-- [LAUGHTER] We are able to disagree Now, I truly hate [LAUGHTER] I don't show it. - You hold it very well. No, absolutely. But now, that's that kind of detente where differently isn't rewarded. The haters get the big money. And so that's what you have. And I think all the corporations accountable. You can't do anything about are chucking this stuff out. And you just had it on-- you can't do But you can say to better knock this stuff off. You better stop and nazis, and this, and that. Now, your question-- and me take over the show. JON STEWART: Did I don't remember. Thank you for letting While you were talking, I was I'm watching South I don't even know what But this one is better. I'm going to listen I have a follow-up to this, OK. So your question is, then, All right? Reject it. Don't celebrate it. So this kid, 20 years we don't know what caused knew he was a miserable and all of this stuff. We all know that. But we don't get into, That's the first thing The first thing they said he's a Republican. Stop it. That does nobody any good. All right? But, Bill, let Look, you and I are practitioners of that are confrontational at And we made a really pushing those envelopes. It seems now to say, hey, Hey, look-- It's like-- it's like-- free speech-- but let me put it this way. Go ahead, Stewart. We keep saying, know why these people do it. They're all mentally ill. But let's stop the rhetoric, wouldn't it be with people can be passionate? People can defend BILL O'REILLY: Absolutely. And shouldn't we be-- shouldn't the argument be, with each other in good faith? OK. So Biden made a good point interview when he said, not criticize Trump He feels it is a threat Because I feel You know, OK. No, but he-- He was thinking it, Stewart. I can read him. - Stop monetizing your anger. [CROWD CHEERING] Stop. I don't like it one bit. But he made a point-- Yes. Where I got to criticize the he's good for America and OK. Criticism is good. Robust debate is good. I like coming on here in out here-- and the audience should know, My friends-- Well-- [CROWD CHEERING] [LAUGHTER] I'm giving him that one. OK. So we have made a nice living-- JON STEWART: Yes. Confronting other people, sometimes serious debate. I'm going to do your JON STEWART: Correct. And I'm going JON STEWART: Of course. OK, but we don't at least I don't, destroyed. JON STEWART: Right. That's the difference. The fanatics on the want to see their They want to hurt them. But I've heard a lot You're not arguing I'm not arguing that point. I think that's a than you've and that I've been hearing. Most of your points, from is that the left has to You've mentioned MSNBC. I ran a montage on the it's on BillOReilly.com-- By the way, log on, it It is. [LAUGHTER] It's not hard for the watched me over the weekend. Four million? Four million-- Ugh. That's-- that's [LAUGHTER] All right. So I ran a montage of haters JON STEWART: OK. I just-- and I didn't I just let their words On the right, and I don't there is a feeling that and that it is the BILL O'REILLY: OK. There's been a lot of that. People believe what But those of us who are Right. And that might not be you, we can see and hear it. But we're no longer agreeing. How can we have a if we can't even agree-- if there are delusions of I mean, when I watch the guy say, the revolution if the left, you Right. And you're just like, You know, some of the fears Tens of millions of women lost based on the decisions Those are real of great gravity and weight. [CROWD CHEERING] How do we talk about so that you're It's not difficult And you don't have-- JON STEWART: It See, the mistake that Yeah, understood. You're trying people in to be reasonable. You're never-- The Heritage Foundation And when I watch-- It is. The people don't Most Americans-- I put are good people, They don't want violence. JON STEWART: I OK? Those are the not the fringe people, who are said, destroy the other party. JON STEWART: Your No, I don't have a candidate. All right? I'm a registered independent. OK. [LAUGHTER] See, that's what No, no, no. This is what you did. I really need to take a look Right. [LAUGHTER] If you guys watched conditioned auditorium, - Listen to me now. Listen. - You are fossilized. Yes, I'm listening. The candidate who represents [LAUGHTER] - Kinfolk? Yeah. The election was Right. JON STEWART: And drove people How are we to deal with that? Truly, you know, what is Peaceful transfer of power. That has haunted him-- That put that in jeopardy. That has haunted - He's paid a terrible price. [LAUGHTER] Of course. He's going to go back and have to fix the paint that wall. [LAUGHTER] If Trump hadn't done he'd be ahead of Biden That's how bad Biden has Well, I disagree Of course you do. - Well, I understand that. Do you want me to? I mean-- I'm going to ruin You brought a handkerchief? All right. I was prepared for this. Food prices under Biden mortgage rates 160%. JON STEWART: Prices Drug ODs up 36%, OK? Car insurance 125% up. These are folks. They have to spend that money. JON STEWART: Listen, that, post-pandemic, this have suffered. Trump had two years Right. But Trump ran an $8 He spent $1.7 He deregulated-- Inflation was 1.5% when But look at it in I respectfully say, yes, and that hurts You want this? So what did Biden do I don't know. And that's what [LAUGHTER] [CROWD CHEERING] So, basically, you wrote but you didn't No. We're going to need two Wait, wait. I want to ask Biden about that. OK. So you're saying, I'm not going to hear and say-- Keep in mind, that was of how I've been saying this. [MUTTERING] Eh, that's not too bad. All right. So my job as a JON STEWART: Oh, when [LAUGHTER] You really make it too easy. We're going to talk tomorrow. This is too long. Confronting the Presidents available for pre-order. Bill O'Reilly.