My dear elegant ladies, are you being an elegant lady when you some of those elegant just because you're not aware what video call? Ladies, I am now going to go through those most that you really need to watch out Let's dive in to number one. Ladies, never display your mess ever. So please, if you have a messy that's going to reflect You're going to look like rather than the clean cuts and a true lady does never, ever showcase any mess or So it's very important that you very clean and tidy so that that's not as soon as you have to jump on never have any background noise. So on the subject of backgrounds, it's also important to address the Because your space should be call, when you do a video call, it be very distracting for make sure if you are at home, your parents Or if you have a loud dog or try to distance yourself from Meaning that you change or you inform the people around Because otherwise you might end up in we have sometimes see go Also make sure to switch off any formal etc, because you really don't want to Number three, never show The third elegance mistake is to Now, good and flattering lighting is camera and what will happen when you actually do the opposite. It will and we don't want that, right? So instead, you should find a really big window and That will give you the if you are taking a call and let's say it's already dark outside, then you have to actually invest And sometimes existing ceiling And it's actually not very nice to have of your head. I know, trust me, I know what bad lighting So you should actually get maybe a little you're doing your evening calls. Or if you can just place on the sides. That's always going to be much more little light bulb on top of your head. but I need to inform you that on Thursday, I'm starting my mini together we're going to develop especially now timely for summer when If you want to register for www.NetworkingMiniSeries.com and register. It is absolutely free. Number four, never dress inappropriately, even if it's just a zoom call. Ladies, I have always preached about And this principle is definitely very because you are in a video call. If you are planning on only dressing just be mindful that maybe at some point during your call. Let's say the postman rings the doorbell get up and close the door, and you get up and there's your little So be very mindful not to do those easily backfire. And what's really important is that make sure ladies that you look If this is a job interview, then you are going to put on If this is more a casual team meeting code at work, then maybe it's fine Just make sure you avoid anything that will make you We are not here to be comfy We are here to look professional, So make sure you do so. if you want to dress elegantly at home, but you do not know where to start then just visit StylePersonalityQuiz.com so that you can identify your and start getting ideas of how to never ever forget your I think we all have heard those horror embarrassing acts. Maybe it's picking their scratching their armpit or please save your itch because we have seen so people just forgetting that they some random things that And it becomes a little bit awkward. I even know, well, not for myself, but I even heard stories of releasing gas in a zoom call. Your video shot becomes focused, So everybody hears and kind So make sure you do not do that. I would try and avoid this type not want to by accident, forget to switch off our Then something really Number six, never gets too an elegant that lady never gets up because we need to be very mindful It has to be at the eye level and not bit like this. You should You should have a good kind of let's say in the middle, or you but what's important is that clearly. And that you're talk with your hands and So make sure your camera is That it's somewhere that makes it feel real and really emulates how a person would see you you will appear much more elegant and Number seven, never be location, location, location, ladies. Choose your backdrop wisely I told you about removing all the mess background. And it's especially when you are in a call. But what about your the room or place that you're in? And I'm going to give you a few examples and I'm sure you're going Do not do a zoom call from It's obvious, but some people still do it. Some people also think that they, if they just hide the camera, nobody will hear the echo that It doesn't work like that. But did you know that the bed and your bedroom too? It looks very unprofessional if you and it's so obvious that you have all or if you're sitting in front of Now let's say you are living very small than actually being your bedroom. Then make sure at least the bed is The issue is ladies that is just too setting for when you Other inappropriate settings especially if you are eating Number eight, never show So another thing that has to do another important thing easily to It's what's visible of your let's say personal photographs. Most of us have them at but what about when you were taking a family tree behind you. That can be a little bit And it might also be a especially if it's a big zoom etc. Another thing can be if you let's say you're sitting What if you've perhaps are dealing So you have all these self-help how to stop being a doormat when you are how to manage your anger managements. There are all these titles or let's say you are into erotic books in the background. Ladies, there are so many things that these small details that So make sure your background is for the person that This is all personal branding never check yourself out on camera. I know that we all do this from time to but the whole purpose is to try not Because people are going to pick up looking there. People notice and it comes across as you're not being very engaged or you're not even listening or paying attention So even though I know it's tempting you look good, etc, try to really look into the camera or as close to the camera as possible so you have eye contact with the person you will look much more connected Number 10, never look bored. And I know that a zoom call can easily you can't make it obvious that you're rather just take one long, big nap That's not very elegant. And elegance and also practicing a really So pay attention. If you're bored, don't let people Now, do you know what else you My next video 10 things elegant I will see you there.