It took a long time, but it's finally here: 2&quot;, combines Zen 4 and Zen 4c CPU cores into Long after ARM started the hybrid hype with E-core design with Alder Lake, AMD finally Let's take a closer look at AMDs new Phoenix we dive into the silicon level, AMDs very apparent. Because calling it big.LITTLE is very true It's quiet unusual to get such a high quality of a product, but this leak by Twitter user an in-depth look at AMDs idea of asymetrical Let's dive right in and see what secrets are Very easy to spot is the large outward facing phyical connections for the RAM. Right next to it and also somewhat in-between Contoller and interface work together to connect memory. If we stay at the edges of the chip, we can to the right and bottom right corner of the At the bottom of the chip we can also make Basically, everything that is supposed to is located at the edges of the chip. Continuing, there's a media engine to the we have one of the two main actors of the We can see the large GPU complex and the two four compute units, much less than the 12 Something else that has been cut, compared is completely missing from Phoenix 2. The initial codename &quot;Phoenix little&quot; might downgrades so far, especially since it's a But that's where Phoenix 2 stops being normal, in the room, the CPU, everything changes and chip. When I'm looking for the CPU complex on a big block of cache. And while the 16 megabytes of shared L3 cache CPU cores are unlike anything we have ever If I just highlight the L3 cache and and attached at a asymmetrical layout, it almost looks Gone is the usual symmetry of CPU designs. So what are we actually looking at? The best way to bring some order into this CPU cores first. On one side of the L3 cache we have a row we have the very odd combination of two standard Six CPU cores in total, tho two of them are AMD has talked alot about Zen 4c, but I think show the very obvious size difference. Compared to Zen 4, a Zen 4c core is a little AMD claims that the c-core is using about smaller. But here's the kicker, from a microarchitecture the same. Yes, these are the same cores, despite the Before a CPU is actually produced in silicon, In digital curcuit design, this is the so short. I'm sure you have seen fancy schematic like Its a technical description of how the CPU to then implement it on a silicon level, with Both Zen 4 and Zen 4c are based on the same They support the same instruction set architecture at the same clock speeds, both cores have And yes, both variants also have the same But how is that porrible? There's two main reasons that explain the size difference. The first is cell density. In semiconductor engineering you can place apart. This slide from an older AMD presentation in cell density. The advantages of using high density cells But there are also disadvantages, mainly in Denser cells might not support high clock and if you pack more transistors into the Zen 4c in general uses more high-density cells same time negatively impacting the clock speed But high density cells alone don't explain Another important aspec it how AMD actually Modern CPU cores are very complex and require the core. Basically, the work is split up not only into one team for the Integer unit and another even more fine grained. In this slide from AMD we can see a detailed The layout, especially of the interger and The standard Zen 4 core is broken up into visible lines, while Zen 4c looks much more The guys over at SemiAnalysis did an amazing All these tiny areas of Zen 4 are designed CPU core itself. A Zen 4 core is bascially a lot of indidual That way, if you have to fix and redesign process, you only have to redesign the affected A huge advantage and basically the only way timeframe and within budget. But it also has a major drawback: it's hard team is limited to their own sub-area and for puzzle piece, even if it would save space. Zen 4c on the other hand had a completely Instead of designing multiple smaller sub merged during the design process, which means you dont have to stay inside of your small Thats why, even when using the same architectural so much different. Zen 4c was uncompromisingly designed with of clock speed. The result is two very different layouts of It's here where AMDs unique approach to hybrid-CPUs radically different compared to ARMs big.LITTLE At first glance, big.LITTLE seems like the there is the very obvious size difference. Zen 4 is big and Zen 4c is little. But that's where the similarities stop, because size but also the architecture. Apples M2 is a great example of ARM's big.LITTLE. Not only are the little cores a lot smaller than 35%, these two core types also use different Apple calling them &quot;high-performance&quot; and description. A M2 Max with only little cores would lose 2 would still perform very well, even with We can see the same when we look at Intel's First, the area difference again is much greater E-cores. And secondly, the E-cores use a different The larger Golde and Raptor Cove cores are a much wider and hyper threading. The small Gracemont cores have much less IPC The result is a huge IPC difference, especially So, what does Phoenix 2 tell us about AMD's Well, to be honest, it tells us that - at a &quot;true&quot; hybrid design, combining two different to go. AMD just isn't under any pressure when it A simple area optimized version of their high-IPC on performance per square millimeter, without architecture. Zen 4c might not play a huge role for your server chips and allows small APUs, like Phoenix minimal impact on die-size. And if we use our imagination, something like Steam Deck. Small cores with a lot of punch, in a small formfactor, anyways. Now I want to know your thoughts about Zen Would you consider going for more cores with some point AMD migh actually start designing cores, like ARM and Intel? Leave a comment down below! I hope you found this video interesting and see you