Hey there guys, Paul here from In this video, we're going to be learning how Star Delta Starters work for three-phase induction motors. Remember, electricity is You should be qualified and competent to carry out any electrical work. Now this is a real-world And by the end of this video, you will be able to tell and how the whole system works together. Now for this video, I'm going to be using the old red-yellow-blue simply because I think it's easier to see. However, I will also show you versions with colours used in the a little later into this video. Three-phase motors are commercial and industrial building. Inside a three-phase induction motor we have three separated coils which are used to produce When we pass an AC the coil will produce a magnetic field which changes in intensity as the electrons change direction. But, if we were to connect then the electrons in each phase will change direction between at different times compared This means that the magnetic field will change in intensity and compared to the other phases. To distribute this magnetic field, we need to rotate the coils 120 degrees from the last phase and then combine these into the motors stator to produce the rotating magnetic field. This rotating magnetic which sits inside the coils, to spin. And we can then use this to On the top, or sometimes we have an electrical terminal box. I'll just move that box here Inside this electrical terminal box, we have six electrical terminals. Each terminal has a We have U-one, V-one, and W-one and then W-two, U-two, and V-two. We have our phase-one coil We then have the phase-two coil connected to the two V-terminals. And then we have the phase-three coil which is connected to the two W-terminals. Here's a real-world example electrical terminal box. Now I'm going to test a little later into this video. Notice the coil terminals are from the top-side to the bottom-side. We'll see why that is in just a moment. We now bring in the and connect these to their We always connect the supply side to terminals U-one, V-one and W-one. Now for the motor to run, we And there are two ways to do this. The first way is the Delta configuration. For this, we connect across the terminals from U-one to W-two, V-one This will give us our Delta configuration. Now when we pass an AC we see that electricity flows as the direction of AC power reverses in each phase at a different time. That's why we have the terminals because we can connect to flow between the phases as electrons reverse By the way, if you want to learn more about how three-phase electricity works, then we've covered this in great detail in our previous videos. Do check those out. Links are in the video Now the other way that we is to use the Star configuration. In this method, we connect on only one side of the motor terminals. This will give us our Now when we pass AC we see that the electrons are shared between the phases at the terminals. So looking again at of the motor terminals, can you tell me which Three, two, one, correct, The two ways we just saw in Star or Delta are fixed methods. To change them, we have to open the motor terminals, Now this isn't exactly practical to do. So how can we automate this? To do this, we need to Now they come in various designs. But if we look inside one, is just a switch that can to control the flow of electricity in all three phases simultaneously. So we take our main contactor and then we connect our and then we connect the other side to the respective terminals electrical terminal box. We then take a second contactor which will be used for our Delta circuit and we feed our three From here, we connect our which is the phase-two coil. Then we connect our which is the phase-three coil. And finally, we connect to the U-two terminal, Now we take another contactor, which will be use for our Star circuit, and we connect our three On the top, we just connect I will just remove the so we can see what's happening inside. Now we start in the Star configuration. And to do that, we activate both the main and Star contactor terminals so that they close to Now when we pass electricity the electricity passes and then out through the motor terminals and into the Star contactor where the path of the electrons is shared. This allows them the flow as the direction of each phase changes. The Star connection method before switching over to Delta. For the Delta connection, we and then close the Delta connection. This all happens very quickly. Now we have the electricity flowing in but it splits direction. It flows into both the main as The electricity in the main contactor path will flow into the motor coils. And the electricity which will flow to the opposite Each will then flow between as they reverse direction. To control the change over we simply use a timer to control this. This will automatically after a set amount of time. Additionally, there are which will monitor the If you are in the US, then you might find these colours being used. This is for a 208-volt three-phase supply but the colours will be different if you're using a 480-volt, In the UK, EU and Australia, used for the phases. If you're in the UK, then you're probably still gonna come across versions with the red, yellow, This is an old outdated colour system. But old installations So coming back to the real-world photo of a Star Delta Starter, can you tell me which part is which? Three, two, one, correct. This is the main contactor, this is the Star contactor Notice on the Star contactor, they've just connected two to create that Star point. So why then do we use Star Delta Starters? We use the Star Delta Starter to reduce the in-rush current when the motor starts. When a large induction the starting current can than the full load current which occurs when the motor stabilizes This huge surge in current The building's electrical by this sudden large demand. The electrical infrastructure will rapidly increase in temperature leading to component failure The sudden large demand throughout the building's This can be visually seen This can cause many problems such as computers, servers So to reduce the starting current, we simply need to reduce The Star configuration will to around 58% compared to A lower voltage will Current in the coil while will be around 33% of This will also lead to The Star configuration torque will also be around 33% compared to Delta. So let's look at a of what's happening here Now let's say we have the with a typical European That means when we use a multimeter to measure the voltage we will get a reading of 400 volts. We call this a line-to-line voltage. By the way, if you then I highly recommend you It's an essential piece of kit for any electrical fault finding and building your Links down below for which Now if we measure across we again measure the line-to-line Let's say each coil has as this is AC-power of 20 Ohms. That means we will get a current reading on the coil of 20 Amps. We can calculate that from 400 volts divided by 20 Ohms which equals 20 Amps. But the current in a It will be 34.6 Amps and we get that from 20 Amps divided by the which gives us 34.6 Amps. That's because the phase is Now if we look at a Star configuration, we again have a line-to-line and we see that if we measure But, with a Star configuration, all our coils meet at the Star It's from this point that we can run a neutral line if we need to. So this time when we measure the voltage across the ends of any coil, we get a lower value of 230 Volts. That's because the coil between two phases like One end is connected to the phase, but the other end is connected to the share point or the neutral point. So the voltage is therefore shared and will be less because one We can see the 230 Volt reading by dividing 400 Volts by which gives us 230 Volts. As the voltage is less, If the coil is again 20 Ohms then the current is divided by 20 Ohms which is 11.5 Amps. The line current in this design will also therefore be 11.5 Amps. So we can see with a Delta connection, the coil is exposed to the full 400 Volts between two phases. But the Star connection is only exposed to 230 Volts between the So we can see that the and therefore less current And that is why we use it first. Okay guys, that's it for this video. But to continue your learning, then check out one of and I'll catch you there