It's cold out there in the Oort Cloud but where we keep the home fires burning for humanity. Today we'll be talking about how to colonize Belt, two fairly distinct regions of space would be colonized. However we should start by talking briefly first. The basics are simple enough, some region like the shockwave of a supernova, comes by Bits will emerge that compact into objects but this often results in a protoplanetary Momentum, angular or regular, has to be conserved spinning in one direction and a star forms Clumps of matter on the same orbit of this There are accepted rules for what qualifies The first rule is that the object must orbit a moon. The second is that it needs to have enough a soda can orbiting the Sun would qualify And the third is that it should have cleared This third rule for what makes a planet is status. Pluto is a bit more massive than the entire Mars and Jupiter, but the Kuiper Belt, out Asteroid Belt. Any solar system might have an Asteroid Belt, a Kuiper Belt, some region on the edge of spread out to form a planet, it's like the Pluto is a Kuiper Belt object itself, part The region out past Neptune is full of icy moons, that we variously call Trans-Neptunian or Scattered Disc Objects. We don't know their combined mass with accuracy, to be 20 to 200 times more massive than the We often talk about how handy the Belt will belt is as well. Out past that is a more hypothetical region two segments. One inner one that is somewhat disc-like, outer region is spherical. Now we often call the Oort Cloud theoretical exists and has lots of tiny icy bodies, just It's very hard to see a Kuiper Belt Object, than Oort objects. Two identical objects, one ten times further in their detectability. Being ten times further from us, we see only closer twin gives off, at the same time it's ten-squared or one hundredth the light its So on Earth the closer one appears ten thousand can see all but the largest Kuiper Belt objects. The Oort Cloud is not ten times further away so objects out there appear about a trillion Belt. For that reason we don't have much data we know there's plenty but can't speak theory and models for now. As an example, a clone of Earth and the Sun would be a trillionth as bright too, because Needless to say we have a lot of difficulties look, the volume of space near a sun where the volume an Oort Cloud would occupy. On top of that, while we theorize the mass of Earth, albeit with huge margins of error, than a planet. Of course you can have planets out in the ones in such a loose orbit they barely know Planets, Nomad Planets, or Steppenwolf Planets. We discussed the possibility of life developing and we briefly touched on settling them there The basic upshot though is that Kuiper Belt, in tiny icy bodies of potential value to us, in them too. To colonize any of these objects one has to options, in favor of fusion, the fuel for There's two caveats on that. You might find some fissile materials out while a solar panel won't work for direct the Sun can beam energy out to panels. I'd always rather have my power plant on-hand, for a message to reach them, but orbits are a station out in the Oort wouldn't be that Lasers do spread out over distance, so it like a diffuse flashlight, and of course we a maser, but there's nothing too sophisticated I always like to stress the importance of I also always like to make I it clear that same things by using the natural fusion reactor Normally when we start discussing these icy of dragging them inwards to terraform Mars that classic image of colonizing the solar seriously under-utilizing those resources. We call those objects far out past Neptune water but methane, carbon and ammonia as well, in their centers or spread out in an ice and that just got plowed for snow. These other ices along with regular water a lot of the materials we need for life, particularly inner solar system. That's why folks want to bring them in. The thing is, while the Kuiper Belt Objects is not. It could take centuries to move such an object up far more energy than its worth. The Kuiper Belt also contains more than enough making a lot of habitats. Now if you want to go full on Dyson Swarm, has a lot more, but even if it has dozens it's still a lot less than the Sun has. We talked about extracting resources from and Dyson Swarm episodes, and we'll discuss Colonizing the Sun. We can't be sure we can ever get such a and again is our topic for next time. Assume for the moment you do get that working, mining the Sun because you've already run and including the Kuiper Belt. At that point the Oort Cloud no longer looks That's why this episode is titled Colonizing I'm sure we will colonize bits of the Kuiper the colonization method is almost identical However it's close enough to us, and easy I'd tend to expect us to bring the material way out there. However the Oort Cloud is even more way out resources, it's nothing compared to what So leaving those out there, especially if seems like a probable scenario for the future Now settling one is actually trivially easy, supply sufficient to live without the Sun, slow down to land on one. If you can get people out to the icy bodies The easiest method parallels how we do asteroids, more like parking at a space station, find way in, using the material you extracted to Inside that you build a rotating habitat, the colonists came in, which can later be Indeed, as with asteroids, since there is expand your habitat, or chain of habitats, since you can pile all the material you are Thus you could start with an irregular shaped a nice polished icy shell the size of a decent Such shells give nice protection from cosmic Of course the big question is why you would There are a lot of these icy bodies but they might be further from you than Earth is from could take many weeks or even months. The edge of the Oort Cloud is about a light What would a colony out there be doing? Why did they go there? What do they trade in, if anything? What purpose does such a colony serve? At first it would seem like none. If the material they had was particularly colonize these objects, at most we'd set do maintenance on the engine moving it back That's a point to stress too, one shouldn't system, anymore than a farm a fifty miles just because it happens to be closer to Chicago If it is even nominally involved with the there and is inside its economic sphere. Remember that bit about highways as it will Again though, it wouldn't seem like a colony Stations out there can't serve as waypoints are very few of the objects are on a roughly and more importantly, interstellar ships do off to stretch their legs. A ship gets up to speed and coasts in interstellar except for life support. And that life support doesn't cost much Oh, it's a lot of power compared to your artificial sunlight for farms or parks, but move a ship at any reasonable interstellar It takes a lot more energy to get a ship up of its kinetic energy would imply, but at 10^18 joules of energy per ton of vessel, 3 tons of ship, cargo for the destination, and so on, and the trip would take a century, an average power supply of a gigawatt per That's about a million times what a household for total energy usage to move that ship. It's also enough power to light up an entire lighting, which is way more space than anything per person. 10 to 100 kilowatts per person for all life is more likely, and even using the high end move that ship, you still have a life support energy budget. Go faster and you need more energy for speed The only reason an interstellar ship can't the woods is all the mass needed for that The power needs are a non-issue. A space station or rotating habitat way out it isn't moving things. Now neither does a habitat in the inner solar living space is only an issue because you it. One kilogram of fusion fuel, even with fairly equipment, can support a person's life support So even if you can only use deuterium for to regular hydrogen, your typical comet-like have a megaton or more of it, enough to support a hundred thousand people for a million years, the lifetime of the Sun, if you can use regular Even longer if you have higher fusion that helium or have feedable kugelblitz black holes. And we are talking about Colonizing the Oort centuries off for anything but a few prototypes, So again living out there is no problem, any that mostly needed no imports or exports. Again though the question is why? On the one hand it is a lot closer than any people who want their own private nation or power or group of powers control the solar But even then, it's not too much harder system than an Oort object, and then you've Of course those solar systems are probably small country of maybe a few million, arguing another solar system to eventually support the effort. A few of the potential drivers for colonizing solar system, be it from a war or a disaster. These disasters could be artificial or natural. Natural ones include a close encounter with the planets and flinging them out of the system. Another natural one could ultimately be the causing the inner Solar system to become inhospitable. As to artificial disasters, the Oort cloud an aggressive domestic or alien civilization. That is their one really valuable and unique Even in an emerging interstellar empire, our in a solar system and every solar system for and the rights to it fiercely contested if dispatching armadas to go claim a single mountain-sized from the nearest sun and many billions of icebergs in space. In many ways you're more isolated out there away would be because over time those places There's always folks for whom being far and if you want to stay that way, picking If your goal is to have a civilization far valley hundreds of miles from that civilization few generations before new neighbors arrive to be the same. Worse too because if you leave on some arkship your own distant Utopia, there's a good in the meantime, constructed centuries later you claimed that system already, and certainly it and you complain you didn't want neighbors. In an expanding and growing civilization, generations worth of time, you either need pick a place people don't really want. A random Oort object probably qualifies. Of course that other option is viable too, inside a mountain of spaceship fuel, so if you just build an engine, or turn it on if and head off on a nomadic journey. It's an interesting dynamic we'll talk and stellar empires are likely to be far more tends to portray them, because people don't to manage as a homogenous unit. On the other hand what allows such populations people are living in habitats that can be So it's more like an RV than a house or don't like the neighborhood. Which could have the strange byproduct of leave whatever empire they belong to or move But surely we can do better than just isolation It's probably enough, isolated farmsteads the farming, which is just about getting enough and these are fairly self-sufficient colonies; They can make some money just serving as radar space is clear of dangerous debris or accurately signals. They could maybe charge a tax or tariff for clear and safe, and those three things might and entertainment from the inner solar system. They could sell some bulk raw materials, ammonia, never got going. Nitrogen is likely to always be in demand don't need it but plants do. Not much but we do have one other option. I said interstellar starships don't slow but about a year ago we did an episode called to do ships that travel far faster and more permit by being pushed by powerful lasers. Lasers have range limits, as they do expand, out of them by bouncing the beam between places. You can see that episode for details but the of beaming stations between two stars and that, push back against them to slow them So these Oort Colonies could serve that function, move themselves to be part of such a chain One of millions of such stations spread over neighboring systems though still very isolated, to us. Such systems, as discussed in that episode, cheaper than not only fusion, but even systems which still suffer from the limitations of their own fuel. On the other hand fuel can be moved down these beamed, and since you can accelerate particles material to or from the Oort station and a to a ship, or metals from a ship to a station station to a ship that would need it to slow somehow drifted off it. And now suddenly these Oort Cloud colonies reaches of space but big truck stops or even laser cannons are, well, giant laser cannons light hours across. Needless to say, as many solar systems are a ton of defense stations light-months out neighbors aren't the friendliest bunch. So you've got signal relays, pushing lasers radars for hazards or debris or sneaky neighbor Between all of those, you not only have the motivation to assist or subsidize making them. We don't have a great guess on mass total guessed there may be trillions of icy bodies those has more than enough water and organic-critical for few hundred thousand people, and certainly of a few thousand. Of course there are probably far more even communities too. Any Oort Cloud civilization would be a very alliances of neighboring ones if not totally more massive civilizations that could exist But with trillions of such objects, each potentially you could easily have the Oort Cloud home compared to a Dyson Swarm but still more than and huge compared to your typical fictional Next week we will be heading out beyond the Empires, where we'll be discussing the flaws realistic approaches. Our sponsor, Brilliant.org, has an excellent concepts of interstellar travel, locating might be habitable. Worlds Beyond Earth is an excellent primer from viewing interstellar colonization from the way a physicist does. To support the channel and learn more about and sign up for free. As a bonus, the first 200 subscribers will After next Week's Interstellar Empires we to discuss Intergalactic Colonization. We will then return to Outward Bound series heading further out from Earth and the Solar system to discuss Colonizing the Sun itself. For alerts when those and other episodes come and if you enjoyed this episode, hit the like Until next time, thanks for watching, and