[Timmy] Tom I'm sorry to disturb you, but [Tom] Mr. Nook. [Timmy] What? [Tom] It's Mr. Nook to you. [Tommy] We're sorry, Mr. Nook, but if we don't to make us go broke. [Tom] Don't worry your pretty little heads, You just need somebody to come and fix everything And I got just the man to do it. [Tommy] That's a great idea, Mr. Nook. But how are you going to convince him to do [Tom] It's simple. I'm going to make him an offer he can't refuse. *Maniacal laugh* Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory, the show... [Tom Nook] Hey you there, watching this video. You better hit that subscribe button, or else. I'm so glad we understand each other. Enjoy the video. Thanks Tom, Isn't he a hoot? No, no, not you, Blathers. Get out of here. Ah, Animal Crossing. The wildly successful social simulation game debt relief, and how to cheat in creative I mean, turnips. And all of it is thanks to one very business Who hands you a two story house with basement background checks or needing to prove your It is probably the single most unrealistic Sounds too good to be true, especially once But people that have actually played the game While Tom might be offering you this wonderful of nowhere. It's not going to come cheap. In fact, when you first get there, he doesn't And even then he tries to charge you nearly And the House, with its expansions, only get By the end of New Horizons, you'll have paid all the storage expansions. Fortunately, just like in the real world, having very little money to your name. You can get yourself a loan. Not from an official bank though, but from, in the first place. Yeah, that is... that is not sketchy at all, And this isn't new behavior either. Every single Animal Crossing game starts this immediately starts charging you massive amounts forcing you to live in. It feels so sketchy that the Internet, even boss taking advantage of our innocent little But there are those who defend Tom Nook in Crossing Hisashi Nogami. Quote from him: "I think he's a really, You do owe him money, but it's not like he And he doesn't add interest in any of the I think he really does stick around and wait paying him back." So which is it then? Is he just as much of a con artist as Redd? Or have we've been mischaracterizing our little I wanted to dig deeper than just the surface Instead, I wanted to take a look at the thing His pocket book. Is Tom Nook actually ripping us off, or is for decades? So grab yourself a bug net loyal theorists, Let's just start off with the obvious question: generously offering us really worth? Well, Houses in Animal Crossing work on a of items. The main room of your house, when fully upgraded, being 6X6, and then the basement and second Do not ask me how a house that's only five grid squares inside of it. I don't know. Maybe Tom Nook is secretly a time lord using But the crucial part of this is figuring out A lot of people online, including an actual the assumption that each grid square is one This would mean that our ground floor alone impressive. That said, it would also mean that all the of two grid squares, are two meters or 6.6 Given the fact that average doors in the U.S. meter, either of the characters in this game off. So I started to look around for items that And fortunately, there are a couple of items names. There are two 50 inch TVs available for purchase. Now a 50 inch TV is not actually 50 inches The 50 inches actually refers to its diagonal inches wide or 111 centimeters. But regardless, this gives us something definitive the size of the rooms. I was able to determine that this 50 inch two grid squares. So one grid square is therefore 22 inches That makes the eight by eight ground floor measurement, 215 square feet or 20 square If you keep going and calculate every room a total size of 981 square feet or 91 square That is way smaller than all the estimates But it's actually still a pretty decently As of writing this video, the median price This then gives our property a value of about for your first ever home. But in reality, it's kind of a bargain. In 2020, the average price of a starter home So actually a little bit higher than what But the two are certainly in range of each Then again, these prices aren't taking into home. We're not in a city or a suburb, this is a And that's going to shoot the price of the In the Bahamas the price per square foot is $500s per square foot. Making our luxury beachside island property Now that is already a hefty chunk of change. But then here's Tom Nook selling you this 5.7 million! That would be an upcharge of over 1,000%. That is ridiculous. He flew us out here to a deserted island and his insane prices just so we can have a roof Except that's not the full story. 5.7 million sounds like a lot of money for can sell is the local fruit that only goes But that's not talking about dollars. That's in Tom Nook's currency of Bells. 5.7 million U.S dollars would be a lot of But if bells are more equal to, say, Indian around $69,000. Nice. Still a decent amount of money, but far less price to pay for a $500,000 house. So what then is the real world value of Animal The real issue with solving this here is that of items when they're generic and unbranded, place. There's an acoustic guitar, for instance, real world, an acoustic guitar can sell for The range is just too high to get a definitive But just like trying to find an item with I went through every single item to see if world brands. Until I came across one very specific item, because Nintendo couldn't resist giving themselves In the store I found the Nintendo Switch, In-game it costs 29,980 bells, and I could of the Switch upon its release in the US, I figured it was probably wise to check out was where this game was made. And wouldn't you know it? The original Switch was sold in Japan for may not be 1 to 1 with the U.S. dollar, they I was even able to double check because there's Horizons Switch, both in-game and out in the In-game, it costs 35,960 bells. And when the same product was released in exact same: Y=35,960. So now we've just got to figure out exchange When the game was released in 2020, one yen million would have been worth $52,383.54. However at the end of 2022, the yen plummeted now worth just over $42,000 today, roughly Which sucks for Tom Nook but is actually great We are getting a nearly 1000 square foot beachfront cost in the U.S. and over 11 times cheaper That is an absolute steal, but maybe this New Horizons isn't the first time that people Maybe he caught on to public perception and get off his back. I see you, Tom Nook. You're not going to escape my net of justice. In the year 2000, the average home in the rose to $383,000. That is an 82% inflation increase, which is In only 20 years, property prices have gone No wonder no one can afford to buy houses Sad realities aside, this does give us a baseline The original Animal Crossing for the Gamecube game there were no side rooms, so we only floors in the New Horizons house. Therefore costing us 4,042,000 bells. So if you work backwards using the real world should cost you around 2,221,000 bells. And if it's any more than that, well, then But then I looked at the price and I was shocked. The final house in the original animal crossing That is 800,000 bells less than Tom Nook should He was giving us awesome deals back then too Tom Nook is either an idiot or he's not really A house of this size in the U.S. costs around That's not including import costs of materials That's one of the reasons why Hawaii has the And to top it off, if you speak to him in You'll find some dialog where he tells you What little properties he's making off of He's barely making pennies off of us. He's not a crook. He's a saint. Maybe this is a lesson for all of us to stop Just because something seems too good to be to drop. Rather than spending all of our time worrying back, enjoy our new island home with no real very cheap interest free loan. But even though I would happily sit by a beach of my life, I couldn't help but wonder why And then it hit me like a present falling What happens when we get on to the island? We're also given sole responsibility for raising to come and live there, building in town infrastructure This is why Tom Nook needs us here. He makes us an offer we can't refuse, giving But it's worth it because of the value that We're what's known as a loss leader. We're the first person to come to the island. Tom sells us a super cheap property. We make it all nice, and then he gets other Which is when Tom can make all his money back All because we got a cheap home for ourselves And the truth is, Tom needed us as a loss mind would want to own the property on an Because, let's be honest, who else is going of nowhere? Okay, well, a lot of us anti-social introverts, anywhere. And I don't think Hellofresh is going to be the ocean any time soon. And all of this is without mentioning the island. The island is only 42 acres total, which means or a quarter of a mile away from any coastline. This seems like it should be ideal. Who doesn't want to live a stone's throw away But actually it carries a huge amount of risk. There's a very real threat of sea levels rising, like Miami, which is actually the most at going the way it is. Rising sea levels means that even if our home might not be long before the coastline is The rising sea levels cause coastlines to What was stable ground now isn't so stable entirely. For an example, look no further than Dubai. 17 years ago, they started an incredibly ambitious in the shape of the world map. The project was called, fittingly enough, But one major problem is that now the islands of the Persian Gulf rise. And even if the shores of your little slice levels will likely lead to coastal flooding Suddenly this great deal is not so great after Tom Nook probably got the land cheap because on such a risky small patch of sand. But he had himself a plan, get one sucker who didn't know about the risks, one who would of the potential property and the cost of They would come all the way out there without And we fell for it hook, line and sinker. I guess we can always try to make it all up But if, or when, the worst does eventually atop his pile of bells, probably able to claim the government, or at the very least pull that land a tax write off. I guess he truly was an evil mastermind all He was just playing a much longer game than But hey, that's just a theory. A GAME THEORY! Thanks for watching. But the Animal Crossing conspiracies don't We also did a video where we learn the truth Bunny. Which you'll find on the left side of the Or if you like figuring out the value of fictional You can always watch our video on how rich on the right. As always, my friends, don't forget to subscribe