- I built a new massive secret lab that the average person will never find because the only way in is through this fake old, dusty office. But I'm gonna give you guys a hint. (eagle sliding and clicking) (soft mysterious music) And if you want a small well this is a tennis ball cannon, and this is my childhood hero Nitro from the TV show, &quot;American Gladiators.&quot; - [Announcer] Nitro. - And he's gonna try and shoot me with a tennis ball cannon from the show as I try and not get shot. The only problem is I've made some modifications to the cannon and it shoots tennis balls Like a lot stronger. (laughs) Dude. But before we see if I actually live I'd like to introduce you to my brand new Willy Wonka I've been secretly over the past year and a half. Not only have I been making all the builds for my YouTube videos here, for the most ambitious which I'll show you in a few minutes. It's got secret passageways and if you can fire a tennis the world's longest Hot Wheels track, rooms that magically reveal themselves, and a handful of some new that I came up with just for the lab. Since I was like eight years old I've had this dream to design and this is it. Welcome to CrunchLabs. So today, I'm gonna walk you through my 10 favorite things about this place, and then at the end of the video I'll explain how you can to build with me and my team for a day. With that, let's jump which is basically a way better Now, the best thing about a fireman's pole is that it's more exciting but other than that, they kind of suck. I either do the thing where and burn my hands, or I of squeak my way down and So I thought, what if you holding a rope that ran and was connected to some Well, that works great, and as long as you weigh than the counterweight. But unfortunately, if you weigh less, you're not gonna go anywhere, and if you weigh too much more, you're still gonna land with a crash. If only there was a way to no matter what you weigh. Well, it turns out there is. Using the power of pneumatics. This is actually the same for the last devil's toothpaste explosion. Only this time we just let of the air having to squeeze So instead of the fireman's pole, we got the fireman's piston. It's so fun, and you basically feel like a superhero every time you use it, but more importantly, it works the same no Here's a family friend who and she sticks the landing Next up, if we walk over which is the Nerf armory. (singer vocalizing) This of course allows me and then to perch myself to keep an eye on my that I think just isn't (gun humming and popping) But you'll notice there's a second fireman's Only the rope on this one has a foothold and lowers half as slow, which means on the way down you can get real Jason Bourne with things. Then number eight, we've on the balcony overlooking the workspace. Of course for entertainment Hey, Chopsticks, play me a banger. - [Chopsticks] You got it, Mark. - (kiss smacks) The perfect choice. - [Voice] Enchante. - [Mark] Then right here we've from a &quot;Mythbusters&quot; episode, a couch that transforms into a couch plus as well as the chair that Then my super cool brother Brian made this super cool, old as a lab warming gift so I can play all the classics. (playful music) Then we stole this claw and filled it with Phat Gus plushies, and it hides one of the secret But I'll show you that one in a second. And now it's time for number seven, which next to the fireman's piston showcases my second favorite way to make it down to the ground floor. (Mark exhales) (birds chirping) Now, don't worry, folks, in the filming of the segment because down below there with a giant foam pit. Nailed it. And in addition to allowing for emergency second floor exits, it also allows you to up (gun popping) But importantly the shipping which means we can wheel it back to its natural habitat in the arena room. And giant foam pits are but foremost among them who's a professional he could toss you some throws, so you can try and be just like him. (upbeat music) Oh yeah (people clapping and laughing) Just be prepared that he's gonna make it look much cooler. (camera clicks) (people laughing) Coming in at number six is all that we've hidden around here. As an example, let's take the bathroom, which I think we could all First off, we found this regal portrait of what is ostensibly one But if you look closely here you'll see there's a and then a magnet on the seat lid. That's because men are pigs, and as long as the sensor detects the seat is in the up position it will deploy the solenoid And now with nowhere to go, you've got plenty of time to reevaluate your terrible life choices. (door rattling) And then I've always loved the idea from this &quot;Far Side&quot; cartoon, which is like a hand wash detector. And the best thing about being an engineer is if there's a thing that doesn't exist and you want it to exist, So we have a limit switch here that gets triggered on the flush, and then a capacitive touch sensor here that knows if the faucet's been touched. And then finally a hall effect sensor here that And so if the Arduino under here detects that the toilet is flushed and without the signal the between those two events then this flashing light goes off and everyone knows who Honorable mention in the which is actually filled because subversion of Then coming into number five is how we actually keep the If you were to walk in off the street or deliver a package here, And clearly who whoever works here is not who you would expect state-of-the-art Willy but when you turn this eagle revealing a secret ending on a dope view of my work bench. But there's an even more secret entrance hidden in this room and by putting a quarter in here (intriguing music) Climbing this ladder not only of the claw machine where in the mix of things, but then pushing right here straight up to the cool And I brought my niece and nephew out here to tour the place, and this was perhaps their favorite part, which just might have cemented my status in my ongoing quest to Were it not for my regrettable at the conclusion of the tour. Now I know what you're thinking. It's not exactly secret now that I've shown 20 million people exactly what the secret But after this I'm gonna give this place So next time you find yourself waiting your turn at the barber or perhaps stuck in the waiting you might wanna get up and just start moving because the entrance to the CrunchLab just might be behind that oversized tooth decay All right, so before we get to the final four in the countdown, like the world record Hot Wheels or even how you could I need to tell you about or why we even call it CrunchLabs. Three of my favorite things are teaching, coming up with new ideas, and getting people stoked especially the young folk. And so for over a year, in I've been working on a way to And here it is. It's called the CrunchLabs Build Box and it's a monthly tour where we build it together and then explore all the juicy For a long time, I've had &quot;My kid is 8 or 12 years old, They want to be an engineer like you. How do I foster that passion? Like what's the first step?&quot; And I've just never had a great answer for that specific situation until now. Let's do an unboxing Oh, and by the way, this is precisely where the toys are designed, In fact, this first one is this super cool rapid As you know, I love to and then build a robot to Like with kicking field setting up dominoes, bowling, golfing, or even throwing bullseyes. (bell dings) Well, now you get to have the same feeling and build a machine that versus someone trying with their own lame arm. What kind of superpowers? Well, I'm glad you asked. (explosion booms) (intense action music) (kid shouts) (upbeat music) We engineered the crud out of this thing to optimize six rapid fire shots for maximum glide with maximum accuracy. You will dominate any mere human who tries to challenge your creation. So when you open the box, the first thing you see where I not only walk you through how to put it together step-by-step but then we talk through all the physics and engineering juicy nuggets that makes something like this work. It's like unlocking your own secret Mark Only it's better because you're constructing your own build alongside me allowing the engineering It basically bumps into all and it causes it to deflect up. So for example, in the disc launcher we learn all about how and then each month you earn a gear badge with a different engineering principle, and at the end of 12 months, it will make a really at which point you unlock my signature to make it all official. So the first video is up over on the new CrunchLabs And I'll put a link in so you can see for yourself that we're not cutting any corners here. And then in addition to we've also got some simple And as a nod to Team Trees, Team Seas, and my buddy MrBeast, we in our material and packaging choices. Even the bags inside are compostable. And the disc launcher is In another box we built this super cool and the gear badge here Here's a robot guaranteed where we learn about linkages. Or there's this coin spinner machine that gives you the superpower of spinning a coin better than any human. And there we learned about ratchets. And you get two of them so you can compete in a &quot;Beyblade&quot; style fight There's a bunch more but I want it to be a surprise for you. So rest assured, we on every single last one. And just like it says on the box, my goal with CrunchLabs is to help you think like an engineer. That means you think critically, you could break a problem Thinking like an engineer makes or piano practicer or math You know it's not only okay but it's important to fail a bunch in order to hit that big breakthrough. That's why it's called CrunchLabs. So we can crunch and break and fail things so we can learn fast. That's literally the process of how I make every that eventually works out awesomely. There's just no better along the path to finding the best design and any good engineer knows that's true. So if you wanna fight and embark on this go to crunchlabs.com/markrober. Use the link in the video description, where, as an early adopter special, we're giving away two months free. Supplies are definitely so if you don't wanna miss out, be sure to go check out our Speaking of which, I've 'cause that's how we built it. They were super helpful, and I've been friends and they give you all the tools to turn your idea into an actual business. All right, so continuing of the coolest things here at CrunchLabs. At number four, if you look right here, we've got the start and finish line of the world's longest Hot Wheels track at over a half a mile. Here we go. (upbeat music) Now the Crunch Labs is big, which is why we had to employ to do the trick. But after doing one, we realized it only got us like 10% of the way there, so we scaled it up to fill an entire wall. Now we're employing Hot Wheel speed boosters of our potential and kinetic energies because that's allowed in the rules. And it's just kind of fun to watch it go back and (car rattling) (upbeat music) (car rattling) And so after we make it (car rattling) and travel around the bend, we complete the loop and set an official new world record. Next up at number three, if you press this button, you then these mirrors become see-through revealing sort of a storage room of a bunch of my previous builds. And if you come through you could even see them up close including the automatic all four glitter bombs, the original double iPad from my very first video, and a handful of other classics as well. Now, before we wrap it up with the last two coolest (bell ringing) I just want to submit not only this bike with a when the bell just isn't cutting it... (horn hooting) Dah, that's loud. But also to the brainstorm room that has walls covered in which is a feature I stole from at both NASA and Apple, massive ant farm we built for the wall. It's fascinating to see how like how both ant colonies instinctively have made for all their fallen comrades. And now at number two, we're back with the tennis ball cannon. After Nitro put it through the wall... Oh, it's literally smoking. We decided to give it the And you can see it passed with no issues. (Mark laughing) Which meant we were official scientific the watermelometer. (intriguing music) (glass shattering) (ball whooshing) (watermelon splashing) (cannon pops) The cool thing here is you might have noticed this glass suitcase attached to a chain with The deal is you could and I've even set up for that purpose. (cannon pops) But everyone gets only one to hit the bullseye and and into the box to unlock So for the avoidance of doubt when you're ready for your official shot you just sign the wall and (ball whooshes and clicks) And as for Nitro... - I'm gonna be your worst nightmare. - (laughs) Oh, I love it. He's talking trash. Even though I did make to one-fifth full power. You suck, Nitro. - [Nitro] You're going down. (growls) - I still took a beating. - [Nitro] Oh, that was a... (Mark screams) - But at least I survived. Retreat. And finally, the number one is you can actually come here. Every month before we ship out I essentially cover my eyes, throw a dart, and then I open whatever box It's called the platinum ticket. And if you happen to be with the ticket inside that month, then you and your family and spend a day with me and my team making whatever crazy idea it is you want us to build together. And because I repeat this every month that means you have a new And you know I'm no statistician but supplies are kind of So early adopters really of winning this thing You can see a link to all the official rules Whoa. So if you needed one more so you could have fun hanging out with me a bunch this summer while you learned to then there it is. So just head to crunchlabs.com/markrober or use the link in the video description to get that early adopter I've found that thinking like an engineer and having more of an understanding of the amazing world around us is such a lovely lens from And creating that spark of big problem solvers is why I can't wait for you Thanks so much for your and thanks for watching. (whooshing) (bell dings) (.com pops)