On their 20th birthday, identical twin Terra will remain on Earth, while Stella Stella's ship will travel at 86.6% the to visit a star that is 10 then return to Earth at the same speed. As they prepare to part ways, the twins wonder what will happen Since a light year is exactly the distance Stella's journey should take 23 years. But from having studied the twins know it's not that simple. First of all, the faster an object moves the slower it moves through time This relationship can be quantified with which is defined by this equation. And secondly, the length of a moving will contract by the same factor. At 86.6% of the speed of light meaning time will pass twice as slowly Of course, Stella won't notice That's because all time-based processes clocks and electrical devices; Stella's biological activities including and her perception of time itself. The only people who could notice time passing slower for Stella would be observers in an inertial, like Terra back on Earth. Thus, Terra concludes that when they meet she'll be older than Stella. But that's just one way of Because all movement is relative, Stella argues it would be just as valid to while the rest of the universe, And in that case, time will pass twice as making Stella the older twin in the end. They can't each be older than the other, This apparent contradiction is known as But it's not really a paradox- just an example of how special relativity To test their theories in real-time, each of the twins agrees to send every time a year has passed for them. Unlike other objects, the speed of light regardless of an observer's A light burst sent from Earth will be as a light burst sent from the spaceship, regardless of whether it's on its So when one twin observes they're measuring how long it took the plus how long it took for light We can track what's happening on a graph. The X axis marks distance from Earth, From Terra's perspective, her path will with distance equal to zero and each tick on the line equivalent Stella's path will stretch from the same and 10 light-years in distance from Terra... before converging again at zero At her first one-year mark, Terra will send a pulse of light from Since light takes a year to travel its path will be a 45-degree And because Stella is by the time the light catches up to her, over 7 total years will have passed for By the time Stella observes she will already be on her return journey. But now, since she's moving towards the it will take less time to reach her, and she'll observe the bursts This means that Stella observes Terra for the first half of her journey, but aging rapidly during the return half. Meanwhile for Stella, it seems as though and the whole universe are And because of length contraction, Stella observes the distance between This means each leg of the trip will only from Stella's perspective. When she sends the first signal to Earth, Stella will send four more light bursts each one from farther away. By the time Terra observes the first pulse over 21 years will have passed for her. For the rest of Stella's return home, Terra receives multiple light Thus, Terra observes Stella aging slowly and aging rapidly during the last 10%. This asymmetry accounts for why the Although each twin witnesses time both speeding up and slowing Stella sees an even split, while Terra sees Stella aging slowly for This is consistent with each twin's which takes 23 Earth years, but only When the twins are reunited, Terra will be Where Stella went wrong was her assumption that she and Terra had To be an inertial observer, one has to relative to the rest of the universe. Terra was at rest the entire time, But when Stella changed her direction she entered a different reference frame Terra and Stella now both have a better And as twins who are eleven they're a perfect example