Hey how's it going everyone? I'm White_Pointer and lately in this series of retro tech tricks videos so some love. The first ever portable gaming handheld of success against the likes of the Sega Game Gear the most interesting of the three in regards take a closer look at Atari's underdog handheld So the Atari Lynx was released in 1989, the the Game Gear. I'm not going to dive deeply into video, but I will at least mention here that the Epyx, some of whom were responsible for conceiving time, but when Epyx sold it to Atari it was most powerful of these fourth-generation portable the first hand held to do so - a fast 8-bit CPU and that supported a left-handed mode, having two the screen 180deg so the unit can be turned the other way around. The original unit was a chunky beast, being even bigger than a Nintendo smaller screen. Even the redesigned Lynx model owned one of these, you'd likely remember that It needed six AA's and they only lasted about 2 backlit screen. The original model had a brightness to switch the backlight off, which increased wasn't like the Game Boy, you couldn't really only used if you needed to pause a game and wanted time you'd probably have it plugged into a power bit. Aside from the backlight button and a slightly advantage the Lynx 2 had over the original model had two custom processing chips, nicknamed Mikey names, it might have had something to do with chip's but that's only a guess. If anyone actually knows original model Lynx, these were positioned under slot and on the model 2 they were positioned under screen. Mikey contained an 8-bit 65C02 as the main CPU, was used in a lot of computers and consoles at the the TurboGrafx-16, Nintendo Entertainment Mikey also contained the unit's 4-channel well as being responsible for handling the game functions. Suzy was clocked at a blazingly fast containing the main graphics engine - which I'll processor. She was also responsible for handling kilobytes of RAM on-board, split into two 32 kilobyte were called, in theory could be up to 2 megabytes or games only reached 512 kilobytes or 4 megabits, with It was the world's first full colour handheld, scan line, organised on just one single palette downside though, being 160x102 in comparison to 160x144 resolution. It did however have a competitors. I mentioned right at the start of the because unlike the Game Boy and the Game Gear, the Lynx was actually more like the Neo Geo and yeah, everything you see on the screen on the Lynx, the enemies are all made up of sprites. Unlike limit on how many sprites it could draw at once, you could throw at it before it started affecting result of everything being sprites, sprites were were actually eight different types of sprites of being collidable, non- collidable, visible and Suzy was quite powerful in the fact that she the major consoles could do at the time. Firstly, Battle Wheels here showcases the feature quite could do. In that case it could make them smaller couldn't actually make them larger. The Lynx could up to 256 times smaller or 256 times larger on games took advantage of this feature, but some, like around it, with the whole environment scaling as Sprites could also be stretched, tilted and flipped, of nuts coming from a handheld that, remember, was to good use in a lot of games. A good example of are constructed of sprites that are stretched, makes good use of the scaling as well and it runs to render too much to the screen to be able to do what order they were drawn on the screen, with the in order to do this, in what was pretty unique for the Lynx used a double buffering system. while the contents of the next frame is drawn to scene out of sprites in this inactive buffer front. Once it's complete, the display swaps repeats. In another example we can see sometimes larger objects were made up of expect, though, it takes a while to draw all so as a result very few if any commercial second. Despite this, it had a number of quite to the original than many other home versions. Pit- these days, and for good reason because it's not Super Nintendo version, but the Lynx version is of view but also a playability point of view. nice sprite scaling as characters move closer or the arcade game, and is perhaps the best home all on various computers, just couldn't pull off the Lynx port is excellent and looks of the lot. While a notable downgrade from the home ports got even close to looking, running, or That's not to say that it wasn't capable did actually allow it to do so at a somewhat Drivin', and was able to do a better job at it time. While it's definitely not smooth, the fact that Once again, looking at some debug tools, we can see it buffer, which takes longer to do when working fast enough to get away with it. Battlezone 2000 appears to be a port of the vector-based Battlezone arcade game from 1980, and to be honest it's actually a very good port, maybe even the best home looks authentic, supports up to four players and be pretty impressive. But there's actually an This is a completely reimagined and more modern and using solid filled polygons for the enemies 2D scaling. As a result, the framerate here is Hard Drivin', which renders the entire game in 3D. types of terrain and enemies, and the gameplay this was actually supposed to be the main game. ups at Atari felt like it was too complicated and do a simpler wireframe-style conversion of the still on the cartridge - they managed to squeeze it ROM, and is only accessible by using a specific press option 1 twice, then press it a third the game and you'll then be playing the new this, give it a try, but I will warn you it's documentation for it, either. It's a shame that this code, as it's fully complete and there was clearly While not arcade conversions, the ports it received are also particularly noteworthy. Shadow of the on, notably how it pulls off some really impressive also manages to push more than 16 colours onto gradient in the background colour used for the sky the opportunity to show some scaling when entering Nintendo version onto the Lynx, with only the a hit. It looks and plays extremely faithfully and by shipping on a 4 megabit cartridge, which was the capable of being larger - one of only a handful of it had its fair share of original games, too. We've Wheels, but Blue Lightning is definitely worth aerial combat. It makes good use of the hardware all the time and provides a great sense of speed. Zalor Mercenary is an awesome original game for in terms of fancy effects, but it does look great, quite a lot happening on the screen, with enemies Impressively, the game maintains a solid frame rate slowdown. Gordo 106 wasn't a particularly good parallax effects that demonstrates what the was not a port of the original Gauntlet, developed exclusively for the Lynx, being was also one of only a few games that 90deg. You might have noticed a pattern here: only Unfortunately, missed potential is kind of a common around 70 commercial games ever released for in development but canned. The silver lining, though, is that's still releasing games, and there's even of these unlicensed games were released around the Lynx was discontinued, and a handful of them exact sales numbers are unknown, it's estimated and even if we're being generous and say it still wasn't even a third of the Sega Game a blip on the radar of the Nintendo Game Boy first handheld system way back when I was in as it was part of my early teenage years, and note, feel free to drop some comments below with in general. Give me a thumbs up if you liked this subscribe to stay up to date with my content.