At the start of Game of Thrones, Jaime Lannister Charming - he's an arrogant, selfish, tries to murder a child. Jaime's a bad guy, and it looks like author that way. In an old outline of the series, written before become king - taking the Throne by murdering would have a child with Joffrey, Tyrion would be killed by white walkers. So the actual story turned out very different Because Martin doesn't like to stick to He says he writes not like an architect, but gradually develop and grow, and he follows Which means sometimes his characters surprise Jaime is a great example of this - cause into someone much more complex than even the In the first couple books, Jaime really is He's arrogant and vain , wearing glittering and violent - willing to kill anyone who seeing him with Cersei. He kills three Stark men to intimidate Ned if he'd caught her . And he uses cruel words Cersei, his brother Tyrion, and his father anyone , or anything . He doesn't believe He thinks that knights and the Kingsguard . When confronted with the evils of the world, "vile" . "There is nothing here but ever a spark of honor in him, it is long dead" we start to learn why Jaime is the way he Jaime was born the son and heir of the rich Jaime grew tall and beautiful , with golden an incestuous relationship with from a young was a highly skilled fighter , and dreamed he fought outlaws alongside the famous Arthur . Later, he joined the Kingsguard, a famed Kingsguard can't marry or hold land - so Rock. But Jaime had never wanted to rule . He wanted Kingsguard - and he wanted to be close to the Kingsguard seemed like everything Jaime turned out that the king, Aerys Targaryen, off Tywin and to use Jaime as a sort of a the king had said" . Tywin got mad and left from his twin and lover who he joined the So Jaime got no Cersei, and no glory - and Aerys grew more and more violent and cruel his wife Rhaella . And since Jaime had sworn to "look without seeing" the burning men the kingdoms rose against Aerys, in Robert's And near the end of the war, Jaime killed Westerosi society takes sacred oaths seriously Kingslayer, an oathbreaker, "A man with The irony is that people hate Jaime for best the reason why Jaime killed Aerys was that - to kill thousands of innocent people with city - but no one knows this. Cause after Jaime killed Aerys, Eddard Stark "full of judgement" . Ned didn't wanna had to look at [him] to judge [him] guilty" explain the wildfire plot to people - that But what really gets to Jaime is the judgement. Jaime is haunted by memories of Ned Stark, They represent Jaime's failures - his only of Aerys, but of Rhaegar's family, Jaime's ashamed at the man he became . And insecurities, and laugh at everything , and a bad knight and a bad Kingsguard - so Jaime all corrupt anyway . People say the gods will . All his cynicism, sarcasm, nihilism are It's kinda like what Tyrion says, to wear Imp, Sandor plays the Hound, and Jaime plays It's easier to play a villain than to face morality and the shame and guilt of failure. Jaime distracts himself with the two things sex with Cersei . Cause in combat and sex, the future, you live only in the moment - Jaime Book 3, Jaime loses these distractions, and Jaime is captured by Robb Stark, then he's return Sansa and Arya to the Starks . So Jaime But along the way, they're captured by the suddenly, brutally, cut off Jaime's hand that makes him who his is . It's the hand to love Cersei . He loses "his glory and Leaving what? Who am I now?" Jaime asks . Proud Jaime Lannister is devastated, dies - but he's urged to live by Brienne. Brienne and Jaime have a complex relationship. At first, they hate each other. Jaime calls Brienne "wench" , and thinks Brienne calls Jaime Kingslayer, and thinks Jaime and Brienne have some things in common. They're both outsiders in society - Jaime female warrior. Eventually, they start to respect each other and Brienne. They learn from each other. Jaime shows Brienne that doing the right thing And Brienne shows Jaime that even in cruel Even when she fails, even when no one believes the weak, and does what's right . And so So Jaime learns from Brienne's example. He heroically rescues Brienne from a bear, sword called Oathkeeper - so Brienne can Starks. "[Sansa] is my last chance for honor", So Brienne looks for her - for Catelyn's Jaime returns to King's Landing a changed his hand, and he has no more patience for scheming family. Tywin wants Jaime to leave the Kingsguard, refuses, so Tywin disowns him , and is later Jaime saves Tyrion from execution, but in when Jaime reveals he lied about Tyrion's learns of Cersei's infidelity. He increasingly sees her as a lying , manipulative . So gradually, the lifelong lovers begin By the end of Book 3, Jaime feels he's lost his father, and his hand . Everything that is gone. All he has left is the Kingsguard - so Jaime The White Book records the history of each There're all these great heroes, like Arthur in their pages. Jaime's page doesn't say much apart from But there's still lots of blank space there his future, with "Whatever he [chooses]". In the show, Jaime chooses to stand by Cersei But the books are different. In Book 4, Jaime travels the riverlands, mopping And he starts to build a new identity as a He's sick of people hating him for being to Catelyn - not only by sending Brienne without fighting Tullys, which was another his Kingsguard and knights' vows more seriously gets mad when the Mountain kills an innocent to kill an innocent boy. Jaime does justice - executing criminals, Brienne. Jaime's still often rude and aggressive - at one point he refuses to wear his gold "Let them see the cripple", Jaime thinks. He "would not show the crowds a golden lie" - he's kind to Pia , and Jeyne Westerling . Jaime even decides to take an interest in He used to think of his kids as "no more . But now he decides he wants to help them he's her father. He also decides to help fix the politics in a better legacy for himself - he hopes to as "Goldenhand the Just" . But some people Edmure and Brynden stand against Jaime, showing still the Kingslayer in their eyes . Like, the Tullys at Riverrun, but he still hands and slaughter at the Red Wedding - an atrocity his trebuchet threat . Ultimately, Jaime's King Robert, crowned a bastard, savaged the all started with Jaime's incest and the If Jaime really wants to be a better person, somehow answer for his crimes. How else can he escape the judgement and trauma If Jaime's to have a brighter future, he Catelyn Stark is murdered at the Red Wedding. In the books, she's then resurrected as vengeful spirit. She takes over the brotherhood without banners, involved in the Red Wedding. In Book 4, Stoneheart captures Brienne, and her Jaime. In Book 5, it looks like Brienne does - taking . You can see Stoneheart as a symbol of the his sins. Catelyn is the mother of the boy Jaime crippled Catelyn is the wife of Ned Stark, whose judgement Catelyn is the woman Jaime promised he'd home in the books. And Catelyn's a Stark, the family that Jaime's So Stoneheart could represent Jaime's guilt But unlike the Kingsguard, and Rhaegar, and There is no ignoring her, no more excuses This could be the big confrontation between Will he be consumed by the dark, and hanged Or will he make peace with his demons and who talks about honour and justice, but someone There are all sorts of possibilities - Jaime revenge, maybe finally find Sansa or Arya. Or maybe it'll be more about putting Stoneheart We won't know til the next book comes out. But Jaime probably will survive Stoneheart Jaime has loved Cersei all his life. He joined the Kingsguard for her, fathered her. Cersei brings out the worst in Jaime - all If Jaime's to be a better person, he needs obsessed with a prophecy that says she'll She thinks this means Tyrion, but fans suspect Remember in the show, Cersei blows up the There are hints she'll use wildfire in the up the Great Sept . Fans believe that Cersei Landing - just like Aerys tried to do years by killing his sister. That would fulfil the valonqar prophecy. And it could represent Jaime finally defeating It could also mean Jaime's death - cause born together - they will die together . This tragically, dying with his lover in fire. The twins came into the world so similar - but Cersei dies consumed with fear and hate , but worthy of the White Book. And Jaime might have an even higher destiny. Some people argue that Jaime may be Azor Ahai, the white walkers, using a burning sword called Jaime does have a mystical dream of "doom" back darkness . And there are some weird connections show - the words for gold and hand are similar connected to Azor Ahai. And Jaime's arc could loosely fit the story his swords first in water, then in the heart Cersei could be the sacrifice. And if Jaime dies with her, he could then his hand transformed into a burning weapon So this is sorta plausible - if you fudge Jaime is secretly Aerys' son - but overall, Because Jaime's story isn't about the stuff to Jon and Daenerys. Jaime may play some role in the fight against in the show, with his black cloak and Valyrian But Jaime's real war is in his heart - trying world. And that's not about white walkers. That's between Jaime and Aerys and Brienne Thanks for watching. If you want to read more about Jaime, there Reddit to check out - links in the description. Thanks also to fan artists serclegane, eluas, Alt Shift X is made possible by our Patrons. If you wanna support high-quality, carefully more, please support us on Patreon, where on future topics.