Welcome to my complete CCNA, Cisco Certified IT Lab. Since this is the first video, allow to be a complete course for the CCNA, including 100% free. topic on Cisco's official exam topics list, each lecture, flashcards to help you review using Cisco's network simulation software exams to get you ready for the real thing. official exam topics list, I also want to understanding of networks in general. That the exam topics. Because this is the first video in the series, This course is for anyone who wants to pass this video, this is a new exam that isn't 24th, 2020. Although a lot of the information will be based on the exam topics for the 200-301 This course is for anyone who wants to learn have to take the CCNA 200-301 exam, this course computer networking even if you're not aiming The only requirement for this course is that I will cover all of the foundational networking so you don't need any prior knowledge of programming or anything like that to start With no further ado, let's get started! This knowledge will be the foundation which course. Take a look at this sample network represents, and their function in a network? and more, and how they work together to make in this lesson. There's plenty of time to few videos are meant to give you the foundational lessons. So, what is a network? Let's ask our friends communications network which allows nodes understand before, you probably still don't The definition states that a network allows I'll introduce some types of network nodes network on the previous slide. This is a router. You've probably heard what a router is. But I'll explain a router's Next, this is a switch. Maybe you're familiar a different function than a router, but is This next one is a firewall. You're probably have a firewall installed on your computer. usually have a hardware firewall, a separate network. This next symbol represents a server. If you before. What exactly do they do? Well, if it from a server on the Internet. The last symbol in this slide is a client. whether it's a smart phone, a laptop, a client? Let's get into it. Over the next and look at the functions of each of these You might also hear clients, as well as the end hosts or endpoints Okay, so we looked at some types of network what each type of node does in a network. role. So, here we have two PCs. PC1 on the left, a network. However, if I connect them together We now have a network. That's right, two Now, it's a very simple network, but if once more... 'A computer network is a digital telecommunications Now that these two nodes are connected, they And essentially have a conversation with each Now, I'm representing clients with this which can be network clients. For example, a laptop or Desktop PC running Microsoft Windows. Or how iphone running iOS. These are just a few examples So, let's give a simple definition of a A client is a device that accesses a service Okay, since server is part of the definition understand the other. So, what's a server? Let's take a look. I used this symbol to represent a server. thing of something like this IBM server, or servers, and you'll see rows and rows of not all servers look like this. In fact, any slide can be servers too! How is that possible? client again, and then compare it to the definition The definition we used for a client was 'a made available by a server.' So, we can what a server is. 'A server is a device that provides functions at the simple network of two PCs connected Remember this network? Watch this little exchange is the server and which is the client. PC1 asks PC2 for the file 'image.jpg' PC2 responds and sends the requested image the server? Well, PC1 is the one requesting sent. And PC2 is the one providing the service, the client, and PC2 the server. Let's look at another example of a client-server or perhaps your smartphone, whatever you're a YouTube server which contains this video. represents? The answer is, The Internet. In network diagrams, or in any situation where the details of that Internet is a very complex network, and for is that data from your computer passes through The exact details of the Internet aren't use this cloud to represent the Internet. So, your computer sends a request to the YouTube video. And youtube's server sends the data, passing However, YouTube doesn't send the data all It sends you a stream of data until you've For one more example, let's say your want have iphones, so you ask him to send you the Your phone requests the video. And his phone responds, sending the video. is the client and which is the server? As you probably guessed, your phone on the And your friend's phone on the right is To review once more. A client is a device a server. or services for clients. situations, and a server is other situations. Okay, hopefully you have a better idea of let's build out the network further, and end hosts and the Internet. and this Enterprise has a branch in New York, branch will have more than just a couple PCs fit an entire network on this one slide! PCs or servers directly to each other. You a switch. As you can see, the two PCs are connected SW2. Switches have lots of interfaces for Look at this Cisco Catalyst switch. As you plug your PCs or servers into. a LAN, a local area network. PC1 and PC2, as well as other devices plugged such as a network printer, or another PC, network. The same goes for any devices connected So, we have one LAN on the left, and one LAN send data to each other, for example PC1 to However, these switches cannot connect directly And send data between the two LANs. So let's talk more about switches. Here the last slide. It's a Catalyst 9200 model switch. Catalyst switches are Cisco's enterprise-grade their LANs. switches. Switches have many network interfaces or ports usually 24 or more. Switches provide connectivity to hosts within We'll cover the details of LANs later, but the same area, like a bunch of computers on small office, or your home network. Finally, switches do not provide connectivity we need another kind of network device. That device is a router. We can connect the switches to routers like Internet. When end hosts in the New York Branch LAN Tokyo Branch LAN, they will send the data it to the Tokyo Branch LAN via the Internet. wants a file on SRV1 in the Tokyo Branch, will forward it over the Internet to R2, which The reply will then follow the reverse path So, let's talk about some of the characteristics These are a few examples of Cisco routers The ISR 1000 and ISR 4000 have their network the ISR 900 you can probably notice a difference up one of the switches we looked at before. Compared to this Catalyst 9200 series switch, interfaces. That's one characteristic of Routers have fewer network interfaces than Also, remember that switches are used to forward Routers are used to provide connectivity BETWEEN Routers are therefore used to send data over Here's our network once again, but this There is an attacker somewhere in the Internet, our networks to steal information or otherwise also provide some basic security features, our networks is... A firewall. Firewalls are specialty network entering and exiting your network. Firewalls like FW1, or 'inside' of your network, protect the end hosts inside, like the PCs be configured with security rules to determine which should be denied. If you configure the tries to access SRV1 in Tokyo, the firewalls The return traffic from SRV 1 to PC1 should However, if the attacker tries to access anything block it. So let's look at a couple of Cisco's firewalls. firewalls. On the left is an ASA5500-X series is Cisco's classic firewall. Although the ASAs include modern features of so-called things like IPS or intrusion prevention system. security section of this course. On the right is a next-generation firewall as well. of firewalls. Firewalls monitor and control network traffic configure which network traffic should be not. Firewalls can be placed 'inside' the network firewall can filter traffic before it reaches the router. In some cases, you might have Firewalls are known as 'next-generation and advanced filtering capabilties. Both of firewalls'. Now, I have one more thing to What about the firewall on your computer? The two firewalls we looked at in the previous are hardware devices that filter traffic between will focus on in this course, as it is a networking firewalls. Host-based firewalls are software and exiting a host machine, like a PC. Your installed, as it should. Even in a network a software firewall as an extra line of defense. Okay, now we're back to our definition of of these types of network nodes? Keep in mind, we'll cover some of those later in this materials which will help you review and test look at the next two sentences of this Wikipedia on the various kinds of connections between For this lecture, and all other lectures, you practice and improve your understanding. End-of-video quizzes after each video. This this slide. There will also be pre-made flashcards to lecture's material, using the flashcard software 'Anki'. These flashcards video. Since this is the first video, however, to download and use the Anki software. If to download this video's flashcards in the for the next video and I'll show you how. separate flashcard deck for each video, instead you create one CCNA deck and then transfer Finally, there will be a practice lab using Tracer' for each and every video. I will labs, and will include the packet tracer file can download them, and complete them yourself. be a demonstration of how to download packet Now, let's go on to this video's quiz. choices. In some cases there are multiple there will always be one best choice. Cisco that, so hopefully some of these will be able video's quiz questions, however, shouldn't Your company wants to purchase some network PCs in your department. Which type of network C, a switch. Or D, a server. Pause the video C, a switch. Let's analyze each of the incorrect A router, like this Cisco ISR 900 series router, networks, not for connecting lots of end hosts Also, a router will not typically have 30 network So, A, a router, is incorrect. A firewall, like this Cisco ASA 5500-X series it enters and exits the local network. It hosts, and typically will not have enough So, B, a firewall, is incorrect. A server is an end host itself, not a networking hosts. A switch, like this Cisco Catalyst 9200 series in the same LAN together. They include many So, C, a switch, is the correct answer. Okay You received a video file from your friend's functioning as in that transaction? A, a server. the video to think about your answer. The answer is A, a server. Lets' check the answers. In this case your iPhone, not your friend's A client accesses a service, it does not provide So, B, a client, is incorrect. An end host like an iPhone does not function can, however, be a part of a local area network. A server is a device that provides functions In this case, your friend's phone provided So, A, a server, is the correct answer. Let's What is your computer or smartphone functioning B, an end host. Or C, a client. Pause the is C, a client. Let's check the answers. Your device is receiving a service, not providing Therefore A, a server, is incorrect. Although your device is an end host, that and clients are end hosts in a network. Your device is receiving a service from YouTube's client. go to the next question. Your company wants to purchase some network together. What kind of network device is appropriate? a router. Pause the video to think about your The answer is D, a router. Let's check. Although a firewall can connect multiple networks control traffic as it enters and exits the So, A, a firewall, is not the best answer. The term 'host' can refer to any type LAN stands for Local Area Network. A LAN is is incorrect. A router is a device that is designed to connect networks. So, D, a router, is the correct for this video. Your company wants to upgrade its old network years to one that provides more advanced functions. A, a host-based firewall. B, a next-level D, a top-layer firewall. Pause the video to The answer is C, a next-generation firewall. Let's check A host-based firewall is a piece of software on your computer. It is not a network firewall. Next-level and Top-layer are not actual types A next-generation firewall combines traditional functionalities. So C, a next-generation firewall, Thank you for watching! That's all for this subscribe to the channel, like the video, anyone else studying for the CCNA. I also via the links in the description. That's