Hello, dear friends, I am Brother Hu San. Today we took a photo of the Red Land Market in Chongqing, China. Before entering the market, we first went to visit a restaurant. This restaurant is called Jiujiu Douhua Restaurant. It is very famous in Chongqing. Authentic Chongqing snacks that are extremely popular and affordable. Follow my lens to enjoy them now. There are many varieties of side dishes and the prices are very cheap. The cheapest dish is only 2 yuan, and the most expensive is only 7 yuan . This is &quot;bean curd&quot;. It is the signature dish here. Almost every customer who eats here will order a serving of rice. It is the staple food here and can be taken freely by customers . Many tourists come here to taste the delicious food. This is the meal I ordered. There are nine kinds of cold delicacies in total. I like dried tofu very much. It is slightly spicy and tastes good. The cold pork head is soft and smooth, with a sour and spicy taste. It is very delicious. The seaweed and pork ribs soup is wow. It is very fresh and fragrant. There are also pork ribs. I finished it. The total cost is 35 yuan now. We continue to take everyone to visit the market. This is a Chinese medicinal material called &quot;Xue Sai Tong&quot;, which can soften blood vessels and has good health care functions. Stall owner: take two or three tablets at a time, soak in water and drink a pound for 30 yuan, you can also buy it Banjin 's delicacy is called &quot;Nuojiji&quot;. It is made with glutinous rice, bean paste, white sugar and other ingredients. &quot;Nuojiji&quot; has different flavors, including crab roe flavor and meat floss flavor. It sells for 13 yuan per pound . What is on sale here is Water chestnut powder Water chestnut is a plant. Its fruit has medicinal value and can prevent the occurrence of some diseases. Stall owner: Three kilograms only cost 20 yuan, which is very cheap. Stall owner: Good socks for mom, dad, grandpa, grandma, and grandma. Wearing Xinjiang pure cotton socks costs 10 yuan a bundle. In order to prove that the socks are pure cotton, a sock was lit on fire. From the ashes after burning, it can be seen that the socks are pure cotton. The fried crispy pork is made on site using pork tenderloin and flour. Made into a soft and fragrant dish, it costs 20 yuan per pound. Customer: What kind of meat is this? Pork stall owner: 20 yuan a pound, exactly 20 yuan of chili powder ground on site. This kind of chili is fried and processed. 3 yuan a tael . They specialize in selling kitchen knives. This is a knife sharpener, 15 yuan a hand forged, very The sharpness varies according to the variety. A handful of fried chestnuts costs 30 yuan and 50 yuan. The stall owner: the chestnuts with some rapeseed oil and cash are sold very quickly for 13 yuan a pound. The stall owner can fry 30 pounds and 20 pounds in one continuous frying. A pot of peanuts can be made in minutes. Customer: Weigh peanuts worth 5 yuan to me. WeChat charges 5 yuan. This portion is 20 yuan. Stall owner: Is 15 yuan okay? In Chongqing, various flavors of dried tofu are very popular , including five-spice and spicy flavors. At 10 o'clock in the morning, the market's traffic reaches its peak. The stall owner said that the razors on sale here were originally for export. , now it is sold domestically, with strong momentum, a good kitchen helper can pinch off steel wire balls for 35 yuan , a vegetable peeling knife can also scrape radishes into shreds, and longan stuffed with fresh meat dumplings is 6 yuan for a pound of corn crisps in the Chinese market. It is very common for 5 yuan a bag, and many people are choosing 3 grapefruits for 10 yuan. Walnuts are very cheap and sell quickly. 3 pounds of these are two and a half pounds for 18 yuan. For 15 yuan, this is sweet rice wine, which is also called the old-fashioned brown sugar raw chestnut with fermented glutinous rice. You can choose any two pounds for 12 yuan and you can peel it for free. Chongqing's characteristic &quot;Shaobai&quot; is the best kelp that is steamed after mixing pork and prunes with seasonings. It is good kelp from Xiapu, Fujian . It costs 15 yuan for a pound of Fujian kelp and has a good taste. Many people are choosing red Fuji apples, which are really cheap at 2 yuan per catty. Vegetable farmers near the city, farm vegetables, ginger, and green radish are 1 yuan per catty. Rongchang braised goose is 15 yuan per catty . Various seasonings are sold here, including Sichuan peppercorns and chili peppers. This is another store. Braised dried tofu stall owner: Our customers are all repeat customers. Various vegetables are very cheap, most of them are between 2 yuan and 5 yuan. Tomatoes are 3.5 yuan. The fruit shape is perfect, with few flaws. Cured salted duck is very popular. It is 25 yuan a piece. What is this? ? Guizhi Guizhi can dispel cold and keep warm, stimulate the menstrual flow. Two and a half kilograms of Shatian grapefruits are 20 yuan. 4 spiced dried tofu. Various rice cakes and hair cakes. WeChat payment is 10.5 yuan. Eggs are 6.5 yuan per kilogram. Eggs are sold exclusively. There are also soil Egg white radish is 2.5 yuan, good quality Hainan banana is 2.5 yuan and 5 yuan. All snacks in this restaurant are 13 yuan per pound. These are loach, various dried tea tree mushrooms, day lily, bamboo fungus and black bean paste , various bean pastes, Pixian County, Sichuan Freshly pressed rapeseed and sesame oil for fresh carrots