Here in the heart of San like any other rideshare. But there's one key There's no driver. Cruise says that the future ready for prime time. But local officials and not so fast. They want a to make sure it's done We just went around a car on. It did it pretty Oh, now we're behind a car He got out. Oh my gosh. And he kicked it. I'm going to put up my kicked the car and now This is stressful. Oh my Oh, he just spat on the car. Hi. I can't hear you that Everyone's okay. Okay. Do you feel safe at Yes. Okay. Thank you for letting me experienced this. Those were the most had in a car in recent I took this ride in a Cruise company has since halted nationwide. So what It turns out they weren't Self-driving cars without wheel have flooded San Two of the leading have been operating in the limited capacities. In August, both companies expand operations, allowing autonomous vehicle like an Waymo is still operating Francisco, Phoenix and Los And Cruise had previously Francisco, Phoenix, Austin, Seeing cars navigate busy feels like we've stepped launch of autonomous fleets problems. Robotaxis have scenes, caused construction and even meandered into It's clear that there are need to be worked out, and hundred vehicles. The idea that thousands of our streets in short order They're not ready for prime They interfere with our They really have mucked It's impacting our public need to fix. In late October, the suspended Cruise's permit vehicles in California. Following the announcement, operations nationwide. I sat down with the Cruise suspension, and he was the hurdles. We're testing in 15 cities us goes into production, to expand. It will be very are in major cities to get California has been fairly vehicles, allowing dozens driverless cars on public In 2009, alphabet owned testing its autonomous streets. GM-owned cruise city since 2015, but back to have safety drivers More recently, the drivers Waymo was actually one of doing driverless tests on some limited driverless 2020. Cruise has been a middle of 2022, they got a operating paid rides. Fully driverless operations 2020 with limited rider Rides were then expanded to public that have been a wait list. It costs from Uber or Lyft. I took a ride in a Rruise a suspended its permit. So we ordered our car. Kyle Vaught, the CEO of remember the name of your So it's Bedrock, easy you basically pick a pickup And I think it's circling to me. Okay, here's our Unlock doors. You can even Oh, I guess the honking is We've been in the car for already been honked at A few things to remember. Please keep your seatbelt Always keep your hands and Two screens for each There's a map of San help button. There's a That's kind of wild. Changing lanes with no Not a very successful lane So it kind of feels like a I have to note, I think been honked at in two car. It almost makes me cruising. One thing you of cameras. They're always You've got one on the roof one in the front to make interfering with the wheel the car. They're pretty cannot do, even when you comes up on the screen and arms in car at all times.&quot; eventful ride, we went all Nearly got into two Got honked a lot. I won't say it was smooth, And the best way to driven around the city by We tried out Waymo as well, robotaxis on city streets, longer. Both companies say million driverless miles. It did start driving seatbelt on. Cruise would So when you get in the car, that says start ride. And I would say so far but does feel a little robotaxi we took a week And similar to Cruise, it tells you where you're that a cruise car would not This car seems to drive driver, whereas the cruise robotaxi. Oh, this is Cruise didn't have this privacy. We may use riders. Interior mics are rider support. So I guess not listening to you, but That's interesting. It took through a pretty narrow Actually doing better than I got to say one word to Unremarkable. We didn't get There was one incident someone off. It was really smooth. You ask me whether this time, I mean. And would I I think the answer is yes. While the Waymo ride was a to Cruise, and it still has autonomously in the city, Waymo declined our request They've had actually some the issues that Cruise has With vehicles sometimes they would get stuck. There was a situation that vehicles kept turning down They've also had issues causing some congestion. In August, the California approved permits for Cruise and expand operations in It allowed them to fleets. And in fact, for that they were allowed to in California. But as the number of increased, so too did the The uptick happened when entirely out of the car. The uptick happened when car, and then it exploded okayed the expansion. There have been 75 plus And so to me, it's like We are the last line of Seconds matter if it takes block, because there's a the people in that building It puts that building more firefighters more at risk. And the problems aren't just In Austin, where Cruise year, similar incidents We have been responsive. We have been making changes software, probably much capable with because this deploy changes to the quickly. You know, that work to do. We're not done In August, Cruise vehicles leaving a scene where pedestrian had been hit by Francisco. As part of its efforts to and San Francisco fire vehicles to determine what My team was able to look at We saw the same video, but things. They didn't see any delayed us by a minute and minutes. As the number of incidents increased, Cruise reduced request of the DMV, just Utilities Commission came after a pedestrian was human driver and then Cruise vehicle. Responding to the over, dragging the In its investigation, the disclose that the AV that may have caused concluded that its vehicles respond in a safe and incidents involving a its permit to operate in Cruise said in a develop and deploy effort to save lives, and doing an analysis to enhancements to the AV's extremely rare event.' On CEO Mary Barra spoke about company's third quarter As Cruise continues to push technology can deliver to Safety is always at the something they are In fact, it's our zero pressing forward, and we cruise AVs are involved in human drivers. Did they ever approach you had approval to run vehicles? Yes, and they did provide us And the training was, you vehicles. This is how you our jaws of life. But there conversation about how to how to stay out of the way going to an emergency or Is there collaboration now? My folks met with both hopeful that we will that it will lead to fewer What I don't appreciate is are sensationalizing I'd love to take him on a someday, and he can see how get around the city as it Never mind when there's an not listen to the police or We just need to sit down understand how we need to and what won't. And we need geofencing as well so they areas when we have When asked about the autonomous vehicle cooperating with officials. We have a hotline for first That's one of the things we feedback. So both police a number, and we can very relocate a vehicle that's Data about every collision state and federal level. We've shown video footage things like that when it's to be very carefully maintain the privacy of our In California, the Public responsible for governing it's a state level agency. On the actual streets of San majority of testing takes have no say. Members of the public think be able to have some this industry expands on Part of the problem with DMV and the CPUC, and this throughout the entire we don't actually have any these vehicles. From our perspective, it's And this is why, when our decision to allow for expansion of autonomous some issues. You're pushing to limit the We have concerns, and our these concerns with proper there is an expansion plan, performance metrics. Following the DMV suspension California PUC also Cruise, but not for Waymo. In fact, Waymo partnered Phoenix to offer A robot driver can't get Is that an argument for For making the road safer? I think it's a really Yes. And again, we don't But yeah, I would love driving incidents. My folks respond to that and deal everything else from that. But Cruise commissioned its AVs are safer than human We analyze the first million in San Francisco and human drivers in San fair comparison. And what we found isn't don't get distracted, We see about half as many But more importantly, reduction in the kinds of injury. They're only sharing data but certainly there are involve interfering with traffic flow. We have no standard on which vehicles are actually as humans or not as safe as these companies are telling safety statistics. AVs are ready for prime Absolutely. The fire department. The police department, they AVs are not ready for prime Where are they coming from? This is technology that is drivers. It's important we have scrutiny into how performing. Part of the transitioning to this safer doing that work, having improving the product to really well with think we're doing a great going to get better from The ultimate goal of is to expand to more The high cost of research they will need to scale if profitability. Kyle Vogt, the CEO of having $1 billion in an ambitious goal. It's very unlikely that many, many years to come, of the decade at the that they start generating ongoing development and And the same is true for GM reported that cruise lost quarter, and expects a forward for. For a business like this, the good news is that we're market. San Francisco alone market, and we're already The United States ride to reach more than $15 When they announced in they were going to expand Texas, that was the first Austin. Within less than operating a driverless ride Cruise says removing the economics. When you have a system that cost structure drops and are the additional costs of to operate the service. As soon as 2025, we're vehicles that hit the sweet from a cost standpoint. The only thing that stands profitability at that point In 2020, cruise unveiled The robotaxi that features steering wheel or pedal. This take up space, weight, don't need and so we've passengers and also for things that you might want. The company is working with says it's getting close to We're really fortunate to think that's going to be a We are the only company of connection with an OEM vehicles at scale. Waymo is also developing its automaker Geely. It's operations in Los Angeles next. Waymo has not been moving Phoenix, they've gone from basically almost the entire 200 square mile area. They're also testing in the Monica. And gaining more environments is important. People don't drive the same It's unclear when or how operate without drivers continue to roll out regulators have the tough standards for these is key to safe and orderly repeat of what's been There is no standard to be, and this is where typically govern federal standards at the National Administration, has really the last 7 or 8 years. They have basically done developing some performance vehicles. These systems are finished. It's not a solved