country Good morning, guys, Deep in the heart of Appalachia. And today we're meeting up And Jimmy said he can get us Some of the former and some towns that have decayed and bring us into coal country because that is So let's do this, get in with Jimmy, get a better understanding country [Jimmy] This whole entire block They're going to tear it down, There's so much asbestos These things are old, old. -They're beautiful though. From the front, that one's beautiful. [Peter] So this was just thriving -There were people everywhere It was one of to come through Bluefield 'cause and it's easier to get coal out. If you look down that way -Oh, coal moving on the railway? -Okay, so it's still happening? -You still get some coal. Not like it was though. Even back in the day, the horse and buggy it was just this coal mining town, -Some people are hanging on, huh? -Furniture shop. Okay, so Jimmy, fair to say -Where we're at? Appalachia is a big mountain chain. -It's one of the oldest in the world. -It's super hard to define it's from Georgia to Canada, up to Quebec. Like, technically, -But I don't -Right. -But when you identify as Appalachian -West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee. -North Carolina. Southern West Virginia, parts of Tennessee. But I'll show you where the West Virginia-Virginia line is If you want to film this is When we get on down here you'll see how many They've ripped out a bunch of them But I remember coming over here and you could could count My father was a coal miner for years He's got black lung now. -So he has breathing problems. A lot of people in this area -Just being down in the mines -Yeah, a lot of the people I have breathing problems. Not even being in the coal mines, there was so much coal It's in the water. -That's one good aspect -Yeah and no. I think it's more of a Catch 22. We relied so much on it in this area, and you have a lot of and things where nobody live. -Right. It was the main-- -Oh lord, yeah. -It was-- I don't think This is beautiful, Jimmy. What are the prices They run anywhere from -60k for a two bedroom, two bath? -Three bedroom, two bath, basement. -It's just because so many people -Yeah, well they never went up. [laughing] -This right here, this is Where we were at, now the way and we'll go through the mountains They may be 2,000 or 3,000 people but on the outskirts of it that live in the mountains and hollers. And every 100 yards or 200 yards, and go up a holler -And that's where it's -Deep Appalachia. -People out there, -Right, they have no reason to leave. country [Jimmy] This is Matoka. I don't think revitalizing this it's pretty rough. [laughs] Now there's some good people from Matoka, There's some excellent people This place was -See one of the coal bridges going across? -The bigger homes down here that they were the boss's houses My grandpa's house was a doctor's office. So they were bigger like these are. But then you get into the smaller houses, -Okay. -There's the Sheriff's Department. I mean it's just a little tiny building. -I gotta say Jimmy, -Most of the town and stuff See all the old buildings and stuff? -Oh right, let's cruise over there. -[Peter] Downtown Matoka? -[Jimmy] Yep, what's left of it. -The coal industry died here -A lot of people left, some people stayed. Like I said, everywhere you look though, Nobody really lives in towns. They live in the hollers that branch off. -Right. There's one shop up here. -Uh-huh. Kind of like a ghost town isn't it. -But then this one looks great. -1978, Coal Software. -Oh, yeah. [Peter] What's the story, Everyone else-- [Woman] Used to be a old computer place where they -Oh. -This used to be pretty until a month ago. Till a month ago? -People in town destroyed them. -Oh. -We're making a video Okay, thank you. So you live out here? -My mommy lives up on Baily Street. -Okay. -So how long ago was it Is that like 30 years back? -I'd say the '80s into the '90s. There used to be, like, and, like, used to be a movie place, and all kinds of stuff. And then, like, when they started -Just died off? -And then for the past, Everybody-- They're trying to -Yep -And try to bring something back -Yeah. -Kind of happens that way, -So you're saying They just shut these buildings down -What was in them? -This apartment buildings right here, The Colonas owned them. They started doing They shut 'em down -Okay. To, you know, -To make their money I guess. -Yeah, it used to be a really nice town. Like, my whole family was from down here. -And then it just fizzled out. They're still good people here that try. -I bet. -But it's kind of hard other people... [Jimmy] You see that license plate? -Yeah, they're visiting They're really nice people, -[Peter] You guys know everyone here, huh? -Everyone knows everyone? It's a good thing sometimes, 'cause everybody knows your business. -[Peter chuckling] Yeah, I bet. -But I gotta get back to work. -Yeah, thank you. All the best. [Peter] It's interesting, [Jimmy] With it being a Friday makes me wonder if it's still there. -AC unit's on -I'd say residentially, that still live in these buildings. -That's interesting what she said, they destroyed those in the last month. [robotic voice] [laughing] [Jimmy] Smile, you are too. [Peter] Look at this. -Your typical back alley. [chuckles] -Yeah. So you can see how people -Yeah, yeah. -Like when that goes away, -Yeah, this is exactly what you get. -The alternative out here is what, Where we started today in Bluefield. You work at the hospital, But out here... -You'd probably have to 'Cause it's only A lot of people live here, Very small percentage ATVs are the way to go here or to put up people -See the side-by-side? -Those are legal -So they're trying to make a transition over to making that -Okay. -Side-by-sides and, like, Lots, and lots, and lots of people Because it's some of the best [Jimmy] There used to be and all over this mountain. It's all growed-up and gone. I remember seeing, like, -How's that make you feel? -[scoffs] I hate it for the people that live here When your buddy came here to film this, Won't talk to you and stuff. That's probably further from the truth especially probably if they see They'll probably crowd around you This is Wyoming County, There's not a traffic light in the county, -Fair to say this is one of -Yes, absolutely. -This and McDowell County This is the old football field Hell, most of the high school's gone. But that was part of But they consolidated. Looks like somebody lives there, -Lives in the high school? I'll be damned. This is where And this is how They got extra gas tanks. -Okay. -They got big screen TV, indoor dining, -So these are for all the tourists? -These are for the four-wheelers. -And then some people rent out This is kind of like Bud Holler. It doesn't go that far back in here -It's like a mini holler? It used to be -The church is still functioning? -I'm not sure, When I was a kid it was in perfect shape, My cousins grew up -When you grow up out here, you finish high school, are most kids -They're going. -They're getting out of town? There's a lot more opportunity outside. You'll see some of -See that? Who are the big players here? -Oh God, there were so many of them. A lot of people, they stay upset They came in and they pretty much You know, the coal. They took it out, and they didn't leave anything in return. You know, people made but after that You could get black lung, But all their money was spent elsewhere, -And the coal was running -A lot of them, right? See, there's all different grades of coal. The hardest being anthracite. Anthracite's the hardest coal and it's mostly mined in Pennsylvania. Northern West Virginia, places like that. It's really, really, hard, hard coal. -Okay. -Okay, the next grade down is bituminous. And it's a little bit softer coal It ain't cleaner than anthracite and it all comes from here. And that's what this country So they came in, and they made and then when they left, -Okay, so do people feel -Absolutely. -They were fueling -Absolutely. -Once they weren't needed-- -Okay, and your lungs -That's exactly right. This is where my mom and dad My mom was born and my dad's from Bud, so they want There were a lot more tracks They used to be stacked I was gonna turn right here, It was the hospital -Oh really? This is Ittman. This is the coal mining camp. So a lot of the original houses when the coal mines were still here. Like all these houses This is the old company store. When we get out -Oh, wow. -That was the company store right here? -As in grocery store, -Yeah, it was owned-- Itmann Coal Company owned this. My grandpa worked for them for years. The coal companies would print You couldn't go anywhere You couldn't go on vacations or anything You had to spend your money The only place your money was good. -Your salary comes from the coal company-- -They printed their own currency? You had to use it here, -It was useless? Each coal company had you by the scrip. -That's criminal. -When did that stop? It was way back in -So that's when you had a lot of -And so they're stuck. -They're basically-- You would have to spend They printed their own, and you had to live -Would they do anything Try and make you feel proud 'Cause this is a nice building. -I don't think they did back then. It was pretty much [Peter] How you guys doing? [Jimmy] Y'all wanna be on film? Y'all guys from here? -We live in Florida. -Florida, your neck of the woods. -Happy Camper... Virginia? -How do you like the best Virginia? West Virginia. -Oh, I like this better than home. -You do? -I grew up here, -Oh, did you? I was telling him about the scrip. I remember this-- I call it the tail end I remember coming in as a kid But the scrip was over by then. They had everything here was jacked-up -So if you bought anything you gonna pay out the ass for it. -What got me is your sitting there they had seven days to remarry. -And it's like... what? -Or they had to move out of the house. -Yeah. -The coal miners own the hoses-- The coal mine owns those houses. So everything goes through the houses And that's what you do. But if a husband got killed in the mine she had seven days to remarry. -[Jimmy] -Or she was out? [Peter] They wanted a man -Yeah. -They packed up all their stuff, -That's how they done it. [Woman] Exactly, yep. [Jimmy] I barely remember but I know about nine or ten years ago they had a post office -Okay. -But I don't think this one's ever been... ..but I was really young. -Probably five or six years old, seven. Wow. -They had a homeless shelter They had an elevator in it. -You remember -Yeah, I'd come in here and buy stuff. -Like what? -Do you remember -Yeah. -Wore, like coveralls, and everybody except for their eyes and their teeth. -All the coal miners coming in here? Just covered, I mean everything. -So this place was busy? -Oh, this place here, when I was a kid. It probably was more busy But as a kid there was people This was like the hub of the community. I remember people up on And there were desks up there, for the mining companies and stuff. You could hear them up there -Right. I mean you're not that old. What are you, 42? -I wish. [laughs] Yeah, I'm 42 for the camera. I'll be 49 in July. -Yeah, so it's really not that old. This looks like it's been... but it's not that long ago. -Well, yeah, probably-- -Thirty-five, forty years. -But things decay so quickly here. -Because of this climate, so humid. -[Jimmy] Wow, that's old. [Jimmy chuckles] -You got a postcard? That was our old, old, old, governor. Years, and years, and years ago. Gaston Caperton. That's funny I just found it. -Was the coal company, Like, as in it was their income but then it was get your, -Uh-huh. -And you can't go anywhere and you probably hate -I'd say they probably but what choice do you have You don't have a choice. Go to work. It's the only way -Right. You can hate or complain about it -So now I'm trying If my family was here My father worked in the coal mine. He endured that let's say. Now we're in 2023 and I have people telling me-- for being from coal country Right? That's gotta be tough. -I'd say some people it affects. I mean I guess West Virginia people having a negative shadow cast on us I guess it would be hard knowing knowing that everybody -I don't think everyone does, it's just... -Backwoods and uneducated. -The people are different, -Totally, yesterday I was at for dinner, spaghetti and meatballs. Homemade meatballs. I sat and talked with a local. He got up to leave, -Yeah. -When I went to pay, they were like, &quot;He's already paid.&quot; [Jimmy chuckles] -You'll get that. -Like, that type of-- That's like some-- You don't see that much these days. -What is that? This could be the kind of paper -You think that was the currency? -Most of their currency was coins though. That's what people kept, coins. And each one, if I had some I'd show you but each one of 'em It was the size of a quarter. But it had like an A, or a moon, so they knew it was authentic Very hard to, you know, This was all shipping and receiving and when they'd bring everything in They could leave stuff out overnight But yeah, this is... -Was it wild back in the days? Like Wild West type stuff, gunfights, or it was pretty nailed-down? -I'd say you had -Yeah. -Like my dad. But my mom was a deputy and my dad met her, he was incarcerated. [both laughing] -Your dad met your mother-- -And he was a prisoner, yeah. -He has not been -Since he met mom. -Yeah, dad was-- He was a little wild -What was he in prison for? -He wasn't in prison, just jail. -Probably fighting, -What was this? -This was a post office This is where you come in, Give you a pay slip I believe. I'm not sure on how it actually went -Mm-hmm. -And you came here to get your scrip. Then you went there to buy This is still in pretty good shape. Now this was, they had a homeless shelter -'94, '95 maybe, I'm guessing. -Why is nobody [Jimmy sighs] Not a lot of homeless people I mean if I was gonna be homeless I can get something to eat, -Right, I've seen -We have 'em, it's just... -You don't see it, it's not as common [Jimmy] West Virginians hate It's the people that own the land, they sell a whole mountain, for coal. And it's usually a cheaper coal. And it burns -So is there a lot of that? -They bought it years ago. -[Peter] Like that one up there? But it scars the land permanently. When I was a kid, this river It's finally over the years, gotten rid of -So how is the environment -Now they're running -Okay. -Which is good. I mean coal, I don't know much about it. It burns dirtier -Well I have two views on that. Everybody wants to go electric and, &quot;Oh, it's gonna be so good and the environment.&quot; But where do you think -Right. -Right. That's where we're Now if we were on solar it still doesn't make enough energy... -So that's what you're talking about? -Someone comes in, blasts off a mountain. -That one's in operation, see the truck? -That ones' in operation, -Okay, so it's really hard to grasp. Like, you're destroying the environment for the economy obviously. People have to live. If I grew up out here I'd be driving that dump truck -Look how dirty it is. Coal is terrible. -For the roads and just -Right, so the world's better with less coal. -Not really, -Right. -Uh... I guess that is -I don't-- But bad for the environment. It's bad for the environment is a lot dirtier than what it was when you had pulling it out from four miles deep. -Interesting, so this mountaintop stuff is actually worse? -Oh, it's a lot worse. I don't know unless you're rich -So why is that allowed? -Because your politicians, they allow it. -Nobody knows about it, and you're never gonna hear unless you come here. Coming up here This has been here less than a year. -What's a tipple? -A tipple is where the coal and it gets processed, -Okay, this thing here? -So that's... -That's servicing that mountaintop? -That's all brand new. A year ago, Now this high school here -There were many, now there's just one? -There's just one. This is where I would have graduated It's a good size school, -So how far out does this stretch? As far as kids from what, 10, 20, 30 -Oh, yeah. -An hour, hour and a half. -School bus? A lot of times if you live in a holler your parents will take you -There's a bus stop there -Okay, okay. -That's the way it was Everybody drops you off or you walk, a lot of kids walk. We're coming into New Richmond, It's just where people's left I have a cousin that lives here. -Because they're in Appalachia, and land so you don't wanna go? -Right. -Even if you see it going downhill? -That's the way most people are here. They don't-- I mean-- They don't mind you coming in They'll have open arms for you but for us to go somewhere just not so much. [chuckles] -Now if you grow up in a family you leave, say to New York City. Do they look down upon you at that point? -No, they... I don't think people I mean people have that I don't think anybody judges anybody. Now they do look down on drugs But I think that's everywhere. -Right. -I think society's just getting to a point where they're tired of -And the problems that it carries with it. -Yeah. -But it's hard to take But if you get them out, -But I know one guy. -[laughs] -Yeah. -And you may have to just-- -[scoffs] -Leave West Virginia. -Yeah, may have to. -Putting me on the spot, dude. But she's worth it though. I mean she'd be worth moving This is where I grew up at. -Wow. -You have a huge courthouse -Beautiful. -This is the jail, then they built this in 1916. This is my-- the place where I played at and I did my homework -I mean we're really deep in now. -This is as deep as it gets. In Appalachia where you're removed-- -Yeah, Kentucky and Eastern Kentucky. This was a hot bed If you landlocked or got Wyoming County you had all Even though it was still a lot of money down here -Right. And so it's really interesting cruising how they all have-- Some have decayed to-- I mean that was, like, gone... That's just -Some make it, some don't. -This being the county seat, that helps. -So there's some government money? -Do you notice with drugs, like, it gets ahold of some people family networks, and then some towns than other towns? -It works that way? -Here, the town next to us in Oceana, the pharmaceutical companies are Big pharma. -Oxycontin problem. -They were selling more in that one town -More Oxycontin there -Any place in the state. -And that was the pill mill situation, -It would come here and the people here... I mean everybody -And that's gone down? -Yeah, it's gone down, -As far as law enforcement. -But all the doctors were in on it? That was cash cow. -And when was that the biggest, -That was probably 2000, yeah. From around 2000, 2005, 2006, -Okay. What's crime like -Well, if it's related to drugs and stuff I'd say I know it's on a decline. -I don't think it ever got out of hand. I mean this is-- -I've seen a lot of sheriff's cars -I think they've stepped it up a lot. -&quot;In God we trust&quot;, how important -When I was a kid it was big, Not so much anymore. I think religion's It's not just here. -But even in the-- -No. -Okay, what do you consider yourself? -West Virginian. [laughs] -You're your own? -You weren't Confederate, -We wadn't Confederate or Union, and pick a side, and went above Kentucky. -So went under you meant you were Union. -Yeah, we were considered Union. -I think we were We were mining, being used -You said no internet? -That's what it said. -What's that like out here in these parts? -You just get used to it. -So there are towns here without internet? -A town like this has -You can get Wifi, it's probably sky high. -When we go remote here, Where lots of people live-- You're will not get -So people watch TV out there? -They ride motorcycles, four-wheelers, -Right, but they're not online at all? I'd come over here and go riding and I have no cell service From the time I hit that I don't have nothing all weekend. Which is kind of nice, -C'mon, somebody's gotta go. -Yep, well we don't have -No red lights, -Yep. There's even a place that has these huge telescopes and they look like satellite dishes. In the whole town, you're not allowed I guess they're reading stuff -Oh. -It's against the law This is Key Rock, it's a holler. So hollers, for those that don't know, It's just a road off the main road Inside of a valley, and it stays right in until you run out of valley -I'm really surprised, we're super remote, -Yeah, they paved this My uncle lived in this house. My dad's other brother, that's his garage, Now this, we'll have to turn around, -This is a real holler. -A lot of people doing their own gardens. They maintain their land, They're so far up in here, Nobody's ever gonna see it. -So everyone knows everyone? -Yeah. That's why I don't drive new cars, -Right, they're everywhere here, huh? -It looks delicious. [laughs] -Do you hunt them? I did when I was younger. -Look at these big gardens. -So would you say -Oh yeah, everybody in this holler They know who they are, what time they come home. -So if someone comes in everyone knows it's not from here? -Yeah. -People look out for each other? Now probably not so much no and we were in they were most of the time on a... What do they call it? The land lines Sorry couldn't think of it if the lady at the beginning and the lady at the end of the holler this lady had to hang hers up It was all party line, But it rang different. The woman at the beginning the next guy would have two rings, -Just twenty years ago? -All right, so we had to -We couldn't have went much further. -Most hollers aren't real, real long. Mile, mile and a half. Now Key Rock, the one -Sure. -Okay. -But it's a holler as well, it's just And this one ain't bad, There's some people There's some people that goes out and that's it. -You think these people here -They probably go to Myrtle Beach. -Really? -Myrtle Beach is the West Virginia Hawaii. Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, Myrtle Beach. [chuckles] I'd say a good percentage have never been on planes, I mean if they do it's usually Tennessee Besides that, they don't go nowhere. Some people go to DC once in a while. If you want to see a big town, go to DC. -So if you grow up here, then all of a sudden -That's gotta be a massive shocker, huh? -I tell you what-- For me, when I left here Quite a few times as a child but living outside of West Virginia, like the first place I was in -Yeah. -I went from there to South Carolina And I met people from all over the world. It's a culture shock. -You glad you did it? I'm glad I got to travel the world, but it's definitely a culture shock. You're used to people people ain't the same -Right. This is your holler, holler people. -So what are people here, what are they doing for work? -They don't, they live on checks. -Like food stamps? -Food stamps, And some of them don't. Some of them and some of them decide They want to stay here Usually they live on a check, -They can live off how much up here? -Oh, sh*t. If you own the property, I mean you could live off of -I figured you were thinking all run down. -Especially out here. I thought the further out we would get -That's just a stereotype. Now there's gonna be some rough spots -That's beautiful, look at all this grass. -Yeah. That's why I wanted to bring you this way Stereotypically, you think people -Yeah, where is that? I wanna see that. -We don't have that. -Nah. -What about bluegrass? -Kentucky? -You're more likely in Kentucky than you are West Virginia. That's why I was glad to do this video Living in Kentucky for 25 years, because they knew they were worse So they would always put us down. I see some rough places in Kentucky. Especially Eastern Kentucky, I can say we've had a little bit better because some of their leadership and they've tried to do better things. But what keeps this place different is pride. I love being here and being from here and just raised to be a good person. Most of your people here, a nasty, hateful, mean, Not in Southern West Virginia. Unless they're There were 29 miners that got killed It was an explosion. I can't remember the exact date of it, But one of the friends and a guy that was kin to me somehow down the road died in it. But these are some of the coal miners -Well it's too bad there are a lot of -Yeah. It's gotten safer over the years It's still a dangerous occupation. -27 years in the mine, -I believe so, yeah. -What's the average lifespan in the mine? -[sighs] It just depends, Some will work 10 or 15 years and some work 25, 30 years. It just depends on -Why don't they wear a mask? [sighs] It would be like With goggles on you can't do it. -Right. Working as hard as you do-- Which I've never done it before and you just can't Now the ones that do do it, but that's one of the hardest jobs -It's physical down there? -Some of 'em work in coal less than that And that's all the leeway you got. When you get four miles deep So you're crawling -You're like with a pick down there? -It's a miner that goes in. They ride the miner in and they gotta -There's a big belt that goes down. -They use explosives still yet. But the miner does most of it I believe. I'm not a coal miner -It's never too late. -So this town is sort of in-between, huh? -Yeah. -Half alive? -It's trying to, yeah. But this one's really big This is a good hub Let's go see if we can get some grub. -Oh, yeah. -This is your buddy's restaurant? -Yeah, excellent food. -[Man] Hello. [Peter] Okay, 2015, mines went to... -Yeah, they were that U-Haul was taking and bringing their equipment back -What are the mines like now? Just... they're wide open. They're hiring red hats, new hires, -What are red hats? -Inexperienced miners. -Rookies? -Guys like me, I could get a job tomorrow? Yeah, you take a... [Man2] Take a class. You get an 80-hour apprenticeship. Pretty much, and you have to Six months, I think you get -So jobs are coming back? Like anywhere else, -How much do they pay? -This area, 30s. Today I found... We got a couple boys on a job Some type of contractor, -New highways coming through. -Yeah. -Right now things are booming. -So is that like and then it might take a turn down, or you don't know, hard to tell? How does coal work? -Thea analysts say because of the electric cars. And people talk about green energy and these electric cars and that's mostly coal. -Okay, the big power plants -Most of 'em. Some of 'em are gas. They substitute natural gas If we put all the electric cars on solar, and gas, and wind, it'd fail. If we're going all electric cars, I'd never buy one. but that's just good for business. That's more coal we gotta burn. -Are you doing coal too? -Not now, I'm a road jobber. -Road jobber, is that a truck driver? -What's a road jobber? Sorry. -Did you come down -No, I came across the mountain. -I worked on -Okay. -Some of these road jobs was planned under They're just now getting to 'em. The area you went to, So this road's going in and it should -That helps with coal, getting it out? Moving the coal for the trucks, sure. Because now it's all two-lane roads, It'll open a lot of access for people. -You guys grew up here? -I grew up in Mingo county, I've traveled all over for the work, -You like it best in West Virginia? -You can live You can buy a home pretty cheap, -Or no? With a six-figure salary, and with no college degree. No, no-- High school diploma But if you got a good work ethic, you can make six figures easy. -Easy. [Peter] Wow, right out of high school And you're saying -Nope, in Wyoming they have If their kids are over 18 years old they'll send them to get their and pay for college if they choose to go. What's the big downfall -You're wore out. -Worn out? You name it, you retire because you have no choice. -When do you guys retire usually? -Early 60s at the latest. I know a bunch of them and maybe live six months after that If they quit working... that's it. -How do the miners feel 'Cause in the past, Where you basically -Legalized slavery, pretty much. It's gotten better since then but is there -No, not so much. -Do you think so? Um... They had a lot of trouble back in the '80s with union and companies, -Yeah. -My grandpa, And there was more trouble on those jobs than pretty much anywhere. -But no, today it's if you work they're tickled to have you, They got rid of I didn't... like them as well. They had some shady dealings But no, for the most part [waiter] Southern Gold Barbecue, South, North Carolina kinda sauce. Our regular barbecue, but it is very good. I literally put it on everything. Stingin' honey barbecue if you and ketchup. [all laughing] [Jimmy] Yeah, they're home made. -Yeah, I say it, but you know. -Grandma makes them? We do make our own ranch. [Peter] Okay, what do we got here? -We got steak, cheap mac and cheese, -Fair to say fully loaded? -And no, you can't have a bite. [laughs] -Here we go, -Good deal, that's what you need. -Yes. So this is a standard -Yeah, just for Jason's it is. Jason over-does everything. He wants his customers happy. -Mm-hmm. -Is it good? -Good deal. -You know, very simple, I like that. -Right to the flavor. -Steak cooked perfect... like I like it. -Jason's business again, what's it called? The Rebel Smokehouse. -What happened during COVID was they found West Virginia was a great place Vacations for a couple years It's a lot of people that are like, I know when I open my mouth but it doesn't matter or from farmlands out in the Midwest. It doesn't matter, It's family people, it's the type of people Where they're out riding side-by-sides. They're gear heads they're And they're family people. So we've had a lot of luck. I guess those folks And we have no problem. -You have lodging? -Okay. -Great Escape Lodging, so you've seen -Very huge, very huge. -When you say the property is owned by -Not necessarily, Land companies keep property To lease out property for coal mines, So they think of property than 100 year spans like we can see. -So who owns the land companies? -They're owned by, like, Georgia-Pacific, -They're just hedging their bets -They do, that's what they do around here. It's their property and all rights So we're fortunate they let run on their property. -Okay. -But you have two types of riding here. You have the legal riding Then you have what they call outlaw riding just in places that have not been -How do you guys feel about the big, say, or corporations buying up a lot -Is that a-- They've been here since we've been here. I mean the property that we have It was theirs to begin with. -So these towns -No, this is a railroad town, -That's why they're here to begin with. -Ladies, do you side-by-side? -Everybody does. -We outlaw trail. -Silly question, You wanna say that on camera? [Jimmy chuckling] -Okay, so it's normal to outlaw? -There's a lot of outlaw trails. -Okay. -It's trails we've rode since we were kids [Woman] It's just no rules You just do what you want, you can drink. [Jimmy] You can take Jeeps, -You can ride at night, -You can do it on Outlaw. Things have gotten a lot easier here. It's been a blessing to us between The highway that came from Raleigh County, in the southern part of the state, There's so many parts of the country that can't imagine not having We've been so secluded so long, it's made So it's been a blessing. -That's great to hear, things were just deteriorating, -Absolutely not, right now The type of coal there was some -Yeah. It's high-met coal, it's the coal Not power plants like steam, coal. It's the good stuff. -It's used in steel manufacturing as in -Right, they take iron ore Yes, when they heat it it has to have a type of coal -Okay. -I'm not an expert [Man] ...metal coal or steam coal. -There you go. -So we have metallurgical coal here. [Man] It's measured by BTUs. -Okay. -The higher BTUs will burn out Steam coal markets Steam coal, I think Metallurgical coal sells for $270 and up. -So what were you saying about coal wars? And the only US citizens -The largest conflict the battle of Blair Mountain -I'm gonna put this hear, all right? -Okay. -You had union coal miners and it was a conflict to the point that the US government and actually ended up The local West Virginians So they got their way with bringing But that's the largest conflict -So the workers went on strike? -It was-- It was when The scrip, which I learned -Yes, it was given They had to use that. They lived in company houses, they could only use And usually at the end of the pay period They had to buy Underground miners had to buy Dynamite and such. But everything So they got their own money back. Most people owed more It was just a legal form of slavery. And that resulted in bringing in the UMWA, And those companies didn't want them here. So they hired gun thugs, but they were just gun thugs. And they're still finding shell casings And these local boys with what they had at home. At that time it cost more They used mule It cost them around $200 Man got killed, put her out of the company house, under any circumstances. They were evicted immediately. -So how much does coal mean to you? One coal job represents Other than the Hatfield-McCoy Trail but that's all there is here, or a coal miner [Peter] What's up? -They want to know if you want to ride -What's Wagon Wheel? -The place where -Do we have time? -It's back in the woods, We went to school when we were in high school. It was an hour long bus ride for them. -This was all strip mined. A lot of people came up here we don't have any flat, So 30 years after-- Thirty, thirty-five, forty years But I mean who wants to live I guess these people do. -Interesting. So why 30 years? Well, nature to retake it 'cause it's Just busted gravel and stuff. -It's true, it's the only -Yeah. A lot of people come up here, -This is where the wealthy live? -Some of the wealthy Like, I mean they're beautiful houses. -It's hard to wrap my head around -Yeah, on top of a mountain. -You're in these towns that a lot of them And then people -One of the first ones to build up here And he had a absolutely huge house It was right here. But there's an airport here. -Back there? And it starts right here, and it goes out, -Does anyone fly out of it anymore? I don't think so, if they do -So these ladies, this is their house? -These are the ladies we met at the bar? [engine idling] -These things are pretty Gucci'd out, huh? -We've added a lot to these. There's heat in here. -There's heat? -It's your husband's? country [exhales] All right, that was-- -Probably about 45 minutes, yeah. -45 minutes in. [Jimmy] The middle of nowhere... When I was a kid, we used to come up here, We'd just get a camp fire sneaking beer and drinking. [Woman] I mean, Packed. -Is it like escape though, -No rules apply here 'cause where are you? You're in the middle of nowhere. -Right, there's -I think that's what people like about it. -No cops, just ride any way you want to. Wild, wide-open. -Who are the people that come out here -Both. Pretty much vacationers though. -I was telling him it's usually packed. -Yes, I'm surprised -I mean like the whole place. So it's hard to tell -What's miner's vacation? -July 4th week. -Why do you call it miner's vacation? -Almost every coal mine's shut down. -They take vacation that week. -The miner's get a break right now? -Yes. -All our coal miners and then typically this would be [engine] [engine fades into &quot;Sweet Home Alabama&quot;] [Peter] This is crazy, -In the woods. [engines] [band continues] -How'd you come up with -Me and her got together, and we decided We built it. [Woman] Are you building something else? [Peter] Build it -Yeah, well it worked. [laughs] -It worked, how's business? [both] Great. -Fantastic. -You've made your American dream happen? -You're doing your own thing out here, -That's right. -Yeah, we're putting another one in. -Where? -Jerry Road. [bar patrons chattering] [Peter] Who's your best customer? -[Owner] You. -What else to you want to say, sir, -[chuckles] [Man] That's all you, -Well, we love everybody. We're grateful for anybody that And we treat you like family. We try to. -Treat us like family? -You got places to stay out here? -Twenty-two cabins, thirty RV spots, and a store. -Playground, gas, we'll have it all. -Like family out here? -Yep. [Peter] That was so cool of the ladies That was cool to see The Outlaw -It is, I mean you're talking -I'm in Bluefield, I'm thinking, -Mm-hmm. And then next level is Outlaw. -Right, and even this is secluded. -You're still 7, 8, 10 miles from town. -An old runway... I was told by a friend that people would -In these parts. -Surprised ya? Everyone was very friendly. -Everybody here is like that Outsiders, they come here, -You're very proud people -Rightfully so. -Thank you. -All right. -Thanks a lot, man. All right, guys. -Nah, go ahead, you do it much better. -Until the next one. Good stuff, Jimmy. country