Lesotho is a forgotten kingdom, dwarfed by the surrounding giant, This tiny African country Every winter, it is covered in snow. It even has a ski slope. It has an abundance of water, a country which desperately lacks it. Such wealth however, cannot be found within this Lesothians ask to modernize their country. In Lesotho, the roads are so dangerous driven in remote and rural areas, are always driven by men. Female taxi drivers However, these two jovial rebels Alice and Favolina in search of new customers. They've spent all their savings In town In rural areas on the other hand, Alice and Favolina Their friend William doesn't like on their own. Only, neither Alice nor Favolina Caution is the only thing aside from their families prayers. The young women at the forefront of their minds. They have forgotten one thing. Unlike in town, road signs here are rare. Driving a bush taxi is no mean feat, are only just beginning. Working in town Between taking on the dissent herself Alice has quickly made her choice. Though the outside temperature the old Korean taxi And they still haven't found Alice and Favolina haven't taken In Lesotho, many people It's the only form of transport not served by the tracks. This horde of riders They're here to keep the peace. Ramakatsa and his men have been hired They are referred to The militia holds or in any case it exercises them, and they have no mercy According to Ramakatsa, making an example is the only But there's a downside The Lesothians don't like them very much. On his horse surrounded by his men, Ramakatsa is all powerful. In a few days time, he will find himself behind the wheel on one of the most And it's there, In this country which lacks so much, resourcefulness remains the key Never too careful, Nelson has made Nelson is a traveling He buys the precious liquid in cities There are neither buses nor any There's an unspoken rule don't leave anyone They may be their The road is long and difficult. Nelson keeps his spirits up with the help of substances Aside from a penalty smoking weed at the wheel particularly when driving Nelson seems blissfully unaware. It does seem, however, has taken its toll and apparently his boss The next incident will surely cost him Liters and liters of water for the engine, but still no customers Finally, a customer and 16 Lotis in their pocket, The difficult roads aren't all bad as the time taken to negotiate them As women who drive bush taxis they tend to command people's respect. In a few kilometers time, this group of travelers This dissent may The track is incredibly This young woman is struggling to control her old taxi, and she has a unique way With the worst of the panic over, Alice and Favolina find their to see them arrive in one piece. With all the day's excitement, They've pocketed 5 euros Meat can be a rare treat as Alice and Favolina earn Nelson, the traveling has barely moved on his journey He's been driving and he's only traveled 40 kilometers. He's taken the tracks which are particularly stony and uneven. Nelson is 20 kilometers It doesn't sound like much, but it's a long way The dangers are plentiful. Rather than take on Nelson and his two lucky But not just anywhere. The mountains of Lesotho Some are a bit like time machines, which harbor the oldest It's near freezing As for Alice and Favolina, Today's jackpot means The next morning, last night's but it certainly The young women are heading Today, their main aim but to attend Horse races aren't but on the mountain plateaus of Lesotho. Here, the riders Every week they trek long Alice's cousin, Entai, Things aren't about to go with no posters talk of the race carried on the wind and by travelers. As if by magic, 300 people Each will gamble their meager savings Entai lines up at the starting line, The race is underway. But suddenly, Entai's horse swerves off course. Entai makes a spectacular comeback, Entai would win it hands down. Alongside his horse, but also does life saving work. Not all riders are able when they swap the reins for the wheel. Like Ramakatsa, on his horse, but when he swaps his armor for a taxi, he becomes a man like any other, one with flaws and fears. Especially on this road Ramakatsa has collected people The militia man is not scared but the further he gets down this track, Ramakatsa is taking on The track connects It's about 40 kilometers of treacherous zigzags The proud militiaman has admitted defeat. For him, pursuing thieves is much The climb is never-ending. The mountain past peaks This driver has had a lucky escape. He just needs But that's a challenge in itself. Ramakatsa realizes he was right Most Lesothians want their little The African giant is a modern country unlike their kingdom. Lesotho's riches It's a striking image It's thanks to this that Lesotho It's the highest country in Africa and its lowest point Winter is in full force During this time, temperatures drop below And seeing as man Lesotho and South Africa in this part of the continent. Amongst the avid skiers are few Skiing is not an affordable hobby Alice and Favolina A can of soda, and a head full of dreams are all Alice and Lena reserved for South Africa's golden youth. While waiting for the country to develop, its inhabitants In the villages, everyone chips in When he's not competing in horse races, This elderly woman In a lot of pain, the elderly lady will have to endure There is a saying in Lesotho, won't get the thorn out of your side. They fight every day just to try