(typing) (tranquil music) - Hello, good morning, here in the Netherlands, Sony's first party studio responsible for the Killzone franchise, most wonderful surprises, Guerrilla are based in a city they've called but until quite recently, the studio was only ever associated with of sci-fi first person shooters But after years of developing battles between the ISA and on a new challenge, to create a game several times the scale of Killzone. An open-world game set in a a game with a meaningful and a lush naturalistic world. We know how this story has been a massive success for Guerrilla, critically praised and But as I completed the I couldn't help but think how did they pull it off? How does a studio that cut their teeth making linear first person shooters scale up and retool to make an what were the many challenges and what were the creative decisions that led them to create of Horizon: Zero Dawn? We have a lot of questions. I better finish this coffee soon. (calm instrumental music) Our story starts in the year 2000. Guerrilla Games was created of three Dutch companies, Lost Boys, and Orange Games. At the time, the studio was and many of those people are Back then, Lost Boys had been working on a first person shooter concept But during this era of games development, self-publishing wasn't so So the first thing Guerrilla needed was somebody to help them make it. They noticed that, for all was enjoying in the console market, they didn't have a strong in their exclusive portfolio, who were seeling consoles based on the word of mouth of mouth around Halo. So they pitched Marines the deal of a lifetime. - Signing a deal with Sony that was the ideal for I think Sony had, what, in that PlayStation 2 era. So for us, as a tiny, tiny where there was no games industry to sign a deal with published by Sony, that was exactly what everybody wanted at the time. And then our relationship So we did one of our many games or Marines, that became Killzone. We decided to basically in one basket and do one thing very well and not be distracted by And then that project became to PlayStation and they 'cause originally, and not Killzone was set out to be a budget title. It was, it had a very small budget, it had very narrow scope. And because it's, you it looked good, particularly in the eyes of our Now, we're talking 2002, 2003. It became a full-fledged triple A game. - [Danny] After four years in development, the studio's first game was released. Killzone had a mixed reception Many critics noted that of a great game, but gameplay, and sound design In truth, the game had and its multiplayer mode had It was pretty ambitious of both the market and but that didn't stop the Guerrillas from setting even loftier ambitions. The team learned from the by employing dedicated game designers and installing game directors to help keep the new project on track. Executive producer Angie Smets - Also, we shipped Killzone a lot to improve just on For a while, we worked on about what a first person for the next generation, and it was meant for internal use only, to be like, you know, a visionary piece. 'Cause when we started, it was gonna be, Killzone 2 was originally - [Danny] If this to sound familiar, it's because What was meant to be a target video for the team to aim onto Sony's stage at E3 2005. - When we were in the planning we asked many of our development partners, including several teams within to submit content to be shown today. We expected to see a few bright lights and a couple of diamonds in the rough, as it is early in the development process. Our partners have prepared a glimpse into this future to share with you today, so let's take a look at what Near the end of the press a demo reel of existing franchises that would see games on And it was there, right was the first tease of that we caught our first - Which we thought was we worked very hard on our vision for the future of gaming. And then somebody from, I believe in the state said yeah, real time on the PlayStation 3. And we were watching this what did he just say, 'cause But then we figured like yeah, you know, nobody will believe that that it's all rendered. And then we went online and lots of people actually did believe it, this is not good. 'Cause in reality we, I think we just, I think the first kit had I'm not sure if we had the first triangle rendering demo ready, or maybe that even took before we were up to that point. But the sheer enthusiasm that came out of us showing the trailer did, I think, play a big role in us then being asked to make it a PlayStation 3 title. And that's also when we realized we really had to scale up the team. Because the PlayStation 3, was so much more powerful, we could show so much more detail. - What Killzone 1 was, it did well, it gave us a reputation But then in terms of gameplay, that very visceral combat - [Danny] Killzone 2 was a and cemented Guerrilla as one of Sony's most important first party studios. Over the next few years, to work on the franchise, Sony had come up with. Killzone Liberation was a flagship title for Sony's first handheld, the PSP. Killzone 3 came out for supporting both PlayStation And Killzone Mercenary was released for the PlayStation Vita in 2013. But after a decade of working on dark, dystopian futures, the team recognized that they couldn't do space Nazis forever. - If people work on there is this notion of And they can no longer do their best work. (calm music) Doesn't mean that we'll never do anything to Killzone series, 'cause we we love the universe that we created. But it's just healthy for so we were already, I guess when we, that was our fifth Killzone game, we were open to exploring something new. - So it's 2010, around March or April. We've got about nine And so we were thinking like okay, well, this is the third one, are There was, of course, this question. It was like, Killzone was you know, big successful. Is this really what we wanna is this the best way that we can spend all the time and effort - Then there was I guess also the idea that people were There was a craving for, very colorful kind of, you but also the tone of voice. Whereas Killzone always was very gritty, we always wanted to make very dystopian, you want We really wanted to make a game that you wanna spend time that's comfortable. Maybe that has to do having kids in school, and at the schoolyard, but there certainly was that hunger for and colorful and meaningful. - I was working on it so it was quite some time. I think for the whole for something new, something fresh. Although I think we at the same time, but yeah, we definitely were all looking for something new. I think that's what we got. - When the studio was planning what their future the games they were going to make in the next 5-10 years, they did so in a typically Dutch egalitarian manner, by inviting the Guerrillas (calm music) - Back in 2010, so that of the Killzone 3 development track, we put together a brief. Very detailed, probably discussing everything to Guerrilla's core competencies, we had a lot of constraints and conditions that we wanted the pitches to adhere to. Everybody that worked at - We're a pretty flat company. So it's very Dutch not to So we see everybody as equal, equality is a really important value - And I believe we got Really interesting to me there was only one straight I mean, there was gun but a straight solid maybe two of them. - [Danny] And then that about the studio. - That tells you, and I think that craving for something new. I might've said no puzzle 'cause other people are way So don't do that. But within that, everything was possible. We also went over Sony's Sony had no Western RPG in and you saw a lot of people 'cause I think when you, and a part of Worldwide Studios, you get that creative freedom. You have also, at the same time, a huge responsibility to contribute. - And so the whole studio We got I think about 30-40, quite a bunch. Took us weeks to review them all. So everybody had to do of about 20-30 minutes of directors and managers of the company. - [Danny] The studio was awash with ideas, some were full blown game concepts, others were just ideas for mechanics. There were several role-playing games. Some were set on fantastical worlds, others in alternative pasts, One of them had a robot companion. Guerrilla were a little about these pitches, it's a creative wild that they still pull from today. But they did tell us about The first came from JB, It was an open world game a girl who was fascinated - A lot of the elements It adds the machines, it that was completely overgrown 1,000 years after the fall of mankind. Aloy was already there, the What we didn't have yet was about what happened to the world. I was sort of cheating in the pitch because I said like, it's a mystery. It was also by far the most risky one, because sort of even from a point of design philosophy and production, it's sort of like a 180 - It wasn't clear what the So that was hard for me to see, yeah. I knew that was gonna be a lot But it had such cool elements in it, like the machines and the far future, the sci-fi setting, sense of danger in it. There were so many nice things in there. And it being an open world action RPG, that was also a part of the pitch. That to me personally - [Danny] The studio loved the pitch, but there was a snag. At around the time they a similar looking game was announced just across the North Sea in England. A post-apocalyptic re-imagining of the Ming Dynasty novel, (calm music) - [Trip] There must've been thousands of people living here. - [Monkey] More. - [Trip] Tens of thousands? - [Monkey] Maybe. - At the same time, on a game called Enslaved. And Enslaved basically featured a female protagonist, that would be awakened. So I myself went to I don't think we should too much of these other points. And Hermen, he sort of was very reluctant. He said like okay, well, to do this, but you know, and maybe we'll look at it later. And so the company went to which also people felt maybe and secure, it was more in our line. It was a gritty sci-fi universe, - [Danny] Guerrilla and started working on another game. In terms of gameplay, it to the work they had done with more open, and totally A sort of alternate with a striking visual style. - Yeah, that was Roy Postma's pitch. Yeah, that was a game, very - Yeah, it was like additional revolution, and all like the historical to get like the Jekyll and Hydes So it like, was it (mumbles), Sort of that angle. - Gunplay in there. But if you look at the concept art that he produced for that, of The Order, and we weren't aware of that project at the time. So when that was wait, I thought we were doing How great that they were doing it? - [Danny] The studio worked for over six months, but when it came time to pitch it to Sony, out of their minds. - I think it was some point when we were already pitching the other one, that I went to Hermen why exactly did we shelve Horizon, because there were some market conditions, other games had come out. And I was like, we should try again. And Hermen was exactly on the same page, he was thinking the same - We actually went quite extreme with this idea of openness and getting, and inviting people's opinions. Like many publishers do, gather after E3 when everybody is in LA. We had this meeting of about 150 devs and senior execs as well. - Right to the point where we Hermen literally came at and said like, get the other pictures up, get Horizon and we'll do And so like, well, that's unfair, here's a highly polished interesting animations and game And this is sort of like - I pitched both of them and raise your hand. And it wasn't so much by the people that had very strong opinions. What I really picked up on was that people that loved Horizon, they They really liked so many things about it, including the character, of that nature, and So the quality of the likes that we got were really really strong, (radio chatter) - [Danny] The Guerrillas and follow their passion. Their next franchise would be But there were dozens of First, Guerrilla had never they didn't have that expertise. Plus, this was coming out of console, there were too many things that could So Angie and the leadership team devised a plan to mitigate that risk. They'd work on two games, the PlayStation 4 in This would help the team and jump over many of of working on a new platform. - When we were making Shadow Fall, we already were making So some of the things in that's for Horizon as well. We were like stretching because we knew we had so everything had to be wider and larger and we were starting to So some of the code in with like large open worlds, Into very late in the day, to have two different engines. So it's exactly the same engine. What we did at some to run Horizon and Shadow the same code until the day Like, you just put different content, like a different mod pack, - [Danny] But while most on Shadow Fall, a smaller in what they called an ideation process. This is effectively a long where the team would try out new ideas, build prototypes, and iterate on the game in a small skunkworks project. Horizon could've ended up looking like a completely different game, but the decisions made would steer it towards the game (calm music) - How it works over here a sort of like single creative director that controls everything. A group of three people, game and the narrative director that together sort of create the creative board. One of the things that we is this design process, and it sounds a little bit pretentious, but it's called intrinsic ideation and But the whole idea is basically of design flow, so you because it's cool. It's a way of avoiding what like if you have an idea and you just add another cool idea on top basically that idea must be cooler. But then you end up with, you know, dinosaurs riding sharks with lasers. So the idea was really basically like, everything has to come from things that we have already established - So with Horizon, when we started, we created small experiences, And that allowed us to kind these encounters with machines with a female character, like it looks today when the game shipped. At least you could see the get a feel for it, and by and by adjusting things, you also get, you learn quite a lot. You learn about the density, you learn about positioning, landscaping, many many things you can your own prototypes, that I personally really like. - Rather than having a and then do implementation, it's a process where you implement and you analyze, you evaluate, you have some conclusions that you then brainstorm about, and then you implement have some conclusions and And with this cycle, you to a better standard. And to give you an example, So we started designing those with a bit of a Killzone mindset. In Killzone, we always or more like war machines. If you look back at the designs, they have this sort of military style. And we've played around with the idea that they could be sort of like these maybe broken war machines. I think the bigger problem with it was that it didn't work from Like the emotional core - We came from Killzone. Basically, all our designs for And that sort of also, sort of the first avenue that we took. And we built a whole sort of like alien creepy quite monster-esque, grotesque And then we put it in game The whole idea was really and the moment basically against something that a tank from Terminator, you start feeling more like a soldier in a war. - And what the team did then is they went back to a period in time where humans were not the dominant And then I don't remember who, maybe we should make And then lots of people they were like robo dinosaurs, you know, that's, are you crazy? - [Danny] It's absurd. - That's, nah, that's never gonna work. But at the same time, yeah, And I think this is great, you just, you can try things out, right, it's all about keeping it moving. Then you see the very early That already shows you like hey, you know, this idea kind of works. We had some really rough models in 3D and yeah, yeah, it kept working. So even though you could it didn't make any sense. Like from an intellectual perspective, it doesn't make any sense. But emotionally, this - So the concept art what this could look like, we got these pictures of, you know, sort of primitive men basically hunting large robo brachiosaurus, and goes like, this looks awesome, I know it's silly, but I wanna play this. And so like well, I guess we're making a robo dinosaur hunting game. You felt much more like a hunter because you could study them and read them and get a mental picture of this thing instead of it was really it would be really hard - [Danny] Players of games we see the final product But there's obviously like you've got this wide cone and you try to the same like creative point. Is that like, is that's a struggle, trying to get your art department and-- - Absolutely, absolutely, is that you're kind of like you're going left and right in this cone, which you're trying to slowly go to that end point where But it's, on one end, it's and go quite wide, that you So in the beginning, I think that's, yeah, it's only for the better to explore lots of options and ideas and just see if something works and sticks or not. But at some point, you have to narrow down and cut the things that really don't fit. - [Danny] Over the course of this process, the design team was The team started to understand how large the world needed to be. It turned out 50 times smaller than what they had originally envisaged. They wanted a denser world but this had its own consequences. You may have already in this footage we showed earlier. Yes, Horizon was originally but to do this, they'd have to drop the level of detail in the game by half. Through ideation, they knew they were trying to make. As the project picked up that they were lacking in two departments, two areas that they had much time to in the past, It's fair to say that to gameplay in Guerrilla's earlier work. The stories in Killzone so they never had an On top of that, linear don't really require a quest department. So to fill in the gaps, two key hires, a narrative director and a quest director. (calm instrumental music) - So there are really two things, one is we acknowledged that that truly builds on what we're good at that So the combat, we were making we wanted to make sure was better than the 'Cause, you know, that's And then there were to hardly any experience storytelling in an open world setting. So that was a recruitment process. We went after some hand picked key hires on the writing team, on But also, we understood that we required a real overhaul of the to make that, sort of the to build these quests, to facilitate great looking graphics in an open world to the expectations that people have of a Guerrilla title that and therefore easier to build. So we had very well defined project goals, and then we went after the right people to supplement the talent - I joined the studio I was brought on board Guerrilla reached out to in open world role-playing And when they did that, they kind of showed me the pitch for the project. And I was pretty stunned. I mean, first of all, I to see that a studio that had been working on linear first person to create this huge open world - [Danny] And you're no stranger to post-apocalyptic open - Right, yeah, so I was lead But you know, this world, of course, was something completely different. Whereas the entire Fallout it's this kind of junk as a result of all this human savagery. This was something that was striking these notes of grace What we often called That took a lot of inspiration from BBC, you know, BBC documentaries. With some of the early footage from prototypes, you David Attenborough just what was on screen. And so it felt like it was something that was very distinctive, unlike - [Danny] When John came on board, the story and the game The story still revolved the idea of the machines, her as a hunter. But it centered around a towering city in the center of the game's world. Back then, it was known as Mesa City. It still exists in Horizon: Zero Dawn, but at around a quarter of the size, and you don't reach it until Maybe you'll remember it, it's the game's largest city, Meridian. But of course, it wasn't just large things that were cut by the writing team, lots of smaller things - I remember when John came in, he did a complete overhaul of the story, and we're very happy he did. And one of the things was that the world did not So for the first couple of years, we have all the prototypes, you And then sort of John comes and says all horses are out. So naturally, the other what do you say? Like, they were completely It's ridiculous, she has a horse. Like you know, look at all the cool stuff, look at all the prototypes that we have. And John said no, this Like you know, I want Aloy so she gets the Focus device so therefore, she's the only person. You know, if she can ride a horse in this world, right? Looking back at it, it made what John was saying, but when that point was brought to the table. And of course, there - Yeah, he made immediately the inventory of what A lot of it he threw out of the window, and he basically wrote a new story. And we went through a number of iterations on that story as well, I think that took about half a year to get the story from when he joined to when we thought okay, this story, we like this story, this - I think it's actually that, is that, in the case of you're essentially stepping You get to create any kind of This was actually one on Fallout: New Vegas, we for the possibility that the player was a sociopathic walking flamethrower who would immediately murder or someone who was like Mahatma Gandhi in the Wasteland, you know. Someone who literally would not even harm, you know, a cazador, right. And both of those play-throughs But the relationship that when you're playing that type of game is very different, right, I mean, you're sort of, you know, figuring out what are all the and what you wanna do And you're uncovering a lot of but it's basically impersonal You know, the world itself But it's not your story Whereas in this game, everything especially everything on the main quest, that's she's, you know, trying to We were trying to create a hybrid between what's most exciting about playing a massive open world role-playing game in terms of the scope of the world and also the depth of the lore. And a lot of the pleasures you know, some choice. But we were really what's most exciting and cool about an action adventure that that has, you know, a defined arc. And the cinematic storytelling - [Danny] Story in video games is action, and so for a story to that help the player feel connected to it. John was hired to write the story, develop the lore and but the actions those was the work of another This is where Guerrilla another American too, David Ford who, like John, had quite the resume. I originally started working on EverQuest for Sony Online Entertainment. I did that for about three years. And then I worked on DC Universe Next up, I worked at ZeniMax Online, working on the Elder Scrolls And I continued my eastward journey and landed here in Amsterdam. - [Danny] So Moscow next. - Or Singapore, who knows. The intro is actually because it went through a lot of changes compared to where we were For a long time, Aloy was not gonna get the Focus until The Proving. And she was gonna take, you take the Focus off that's dead on the ground. But we realized that we into the Focus in terms of that it would be very difficult for us to have the first several so the part at the beginning the old world ruin and you that was actually a later addition because we went back to the writing team and we said guys, we have to have a way to get the Focus into her hands earlier. I know that in the early I had her discovering this Focus device when she was an adult. And there was a lot of pushback look, that's basically not have our user interface, hour three or something And I really resisted it. And it's just one of these examples of how wrong I can be, you know? Really, the importance of across the disciplines. They really pushed this needs to be something at the beginning of the game. It was just the right choice. It's also something that, you know, what I love about that in a really vivid way, her being cast out. You know, like her And then, when she discovers of making that feel like Kind of like, that moment where she sees the happy birthday message from this long dead man to his son, Isaac. The way she responds to some of this familial love I just thought that turned out great because it paints the of the ancient world, again, There's something that she's that's not just a matter of curiosity, it's a matter of emotion - And then that kind of had ripples, because the next quest and he's teaching you things - Then they have that the things of the metal world, that it's not okay to not gonna let it go. And Ross, to his credit, away from her, she doesn't - [Danny] Right. (mumbles) It's almost like and he's like, stop I gotta show you how to hunt. (laughter) - Enough screen time. - [Danny] Exactly. David's responsibilities First, he set up a pipeline to ensure that quest quality was always He created what he where the main quests got side quests a little bit less, and Aaron's were given a lot less time and worked on relatively The idea behind this where the game world was crammed a common issue in many open world games. But David was also responsible build the tools that to be designed. On Killzone, levels were linear and isolated from one another. But on Horizon, the team that would allow designers with way points, spawn triggers, effects, and so much more. All in a world that was by the level and world design teams. - I interviewed in August, to come out for a couple so I officially started in early October and I came out for a most of the engineering the tech director, and Where I kind of laid out my vision for how quest tools would work, you know. I'd seen a bunch of in other games, ways things common locations for that I had seen up to that point. So we talked about how we the scripting in layers that it made sense for it to be in and make sure a lot of scripting in multiple places and just making it easier to untie and untangle what you're creating. But when I got here, the tools were, they were all focused around - Everybody knew that streaming would be a big one, memory management. Because something like 100 different shards and everybody plays the same game from A to B. Basically, you know, of paths and twists and But that's about it. So it was very predictable, you can test to see like does this part does it load in time if and there's like, you can And something like Horizon in any direction and just with all of those people because you just like engaged what sort of effect it - The tools originally were pretty good for creating bespoke things but not for this broader implementation that we have. It was about a year and that the tools that we have now really started to come online. - Yeah, that's actually something that came from JB, our art director, he was very clear from the start, like you know, we have with procedural placement, a very rich world or do like we can iterate on a world He was very adamant, as on a procedural approach, and where the artists define rule sets and let them place like meshes but also sounds and entities. So they could, for example, to the nearest river is the height is lower than we spawn randomly these entities, like fireflies or around creeks, and it's like is zero meters, so basically and the current depth we spawn like all those stuff all those plants and everything, so like all the cosmetic stuff inside. (calm music) - [Male Speaker] So this - [Danny] All right. - [Male Speaker] Let's just So we have, we have a type of water, this tells us where the rivers are. We have one for roads, and as you see, these have, they're not they have a full (mumbles). So I can tell it's the value in the river, the white And at 50 thing gray, And as it fades out, we can say okay, this plant is next to the river. So we're gonna use a different tree here because it knows that that - So that's all procedurally generated because it's nature and there's no point in hand placing those it doesn't have much, that's But of course like, we anything manmade or and everything, it's all just like-- - [Danny] What about creature placement? - That's all hand placed. - [Danny] Hand placed, including animals? - No, wildlife is procedurally based. But it is, again, context dependent, so you'll find different types of, depending on the type of forest you will find different types of wildlife. We decided like that, of course, we were going to make an open world engine and everything's gonna be like, you know, different streaming system and stuff, and then they decided to of our Killzone levels That took a long time to get right. It was also, it was, I mean, because it's a good stress But you have, all the sort in the first person game, we also had. But then in our open world and it had to seamlessly stream. And it also made these ridiculous things where you have like a cauldron and then right on top of it, there's like the hunters' gathering or something. And we have to really, it was really easy for the cauldron to be streamed in, so you were standing there like, you know, talking with the campfire and then somebody disables because you're in a small conversation. And you see everybody's face going to like five triangles and all And you're like, what it's like yeah, it's starting that you happen to be - [Danny] Streaming the world the game had no loading any of its immersive qualities. But another important is drawing what the engine spends time rendering for the player. Earlier this year, a Dutch showed off its frustum culling, much to the wonder of I asked Michiel to give us some insight into how that system works. - At first I was like, it was really funny to see that explained, but I think it was a of something that is like super normal in the graphics industry. I mean, of course, you don't draw stuff that's out of screen. This is not even about You basically, of course, like, you have a person somewhere in the world, through a person, you have a camera and it's somewhere above probably looking into the world, that ends up being square, from which sort of like a Everything that's outside of the frustum, you don't have to draw. And then even the stuff what you try to do is like quite close to you first, and Because you don't wanna and a bunch of trees on five characters in front like you know, one because you're wasting a beautiful mountain a door in front of it. So you try to first draw the door, and then when you sent it goes like ah, all those like toss it out. It happened to be in the And then people were like you know, that's Like yeah, when that immediately it's not gone, but of course, we're not rendering it anymore. - [Danny] The tools the to the success of Horizon, that another team is now started on one of the most anticipated - When Kojima was around, and I think JB, our art made like a a 340 page with all the cool stuff and then at the end of it, we offered them a wooden box with a memory stick, and it was like here, have And they do a very deep investigation that I've later seen the results of. Like Excel sheet, like of lines of like investigation, it's like one of the most thorough and like battle-hardened And in the end, they were I can't say too much, they wanted to make, Hideo Kojima has a really good idea They were looking for and one of the things that's is like making sure they get to give the best experience for They're really adamant, they will do anything to make sure that the game is the on the platform that So they were really impressed by also the tool set around it. And we've been working So I mean, of course, I think they need a slightly different direction, a different focus, different A lot of staff, they in a lot of different with questions and suggestions better versions of our tools as well. I mean, it definitely works both ways. - It's actually really great to be able to help Hideo on Death Stranding. That is such an amazing and they are so talented. So it kind of was almost obvious that hey, why don't we just offer what we have. How could that possibly hurt us? And we'll help them out with that. And they have been super grateful, they've been bouncing so it's actually evolved It's really great as a developer, just for the sake of making games, if you can help a great team like that. - Yeah, I joked with our it was like, just as the to come online, I was like, you want to, at the end, be where we're like, look And you know, here we are today. - [Danny] We spent four days working on the game, and when we walk away with dozens ideas they had that didn't So seeing as we're talking right now, perhaps this is a good moment to drop this one in. - So this was in the our first prototyping, just to get a feel for what the world would be and how hunting machines would work. We thought like okay, if what do you do with the components? And we thought okay, let the machine be there the components, you wanna But it was too much for Aloy like a Thunderjaw or something. So we thought okay, maybe and when she shoots a flair up, then a tribe that's nearby comes flying in with this giant flying wheel machine, that's what we created. Almost like a flying wheel pirate ship. And they, with ropes, they climb down, they tie it to the machine, And then you can collect or the guy from the ship and you can catch it. But that was also complicated, we had this in a cinematic at some point. But having to do this every didn't make much sense. So we had a number of where things would just become too big and kind of almost ridiculous. And it also didn't look plausible as well. - [Danny] It sounds like like it Metal Gear Solid 5. - It was that, yeah. (soldier speaks in Russian language) (screaming) - [Danny] The various teams on their slices of the pie. Narrative was crafting and an emotive story, quest design was making sure the missions in the game were diverse and engaging, thousands of assets, that everyone hit their milestones and that the game was coming together. Tech was trying to ensure loaded in on time. But there's one critical piece we have to go back to, the idea that started this whole The more military style machines the team had originally envisaged They became part of the story But the animalistic machines went through a dramatic (tense music) - So the first machine was the Thunderjaw. Everybody was like, is this a good idea? This is the most complex one. That is our designer says like, Because basically, if you we can make the whole game work. - And we saw that, because the most complex. So we wanted to try all you could do with the the weapons off or slowing them down if you shoot at a certain or stuff like that. So we had all kind of like of the machine already present on there. But also, that first initial more complex, because was just blocks, you armor plates off. So it was an additional So that made it even more complex and more and more things. - I think basically we had something like 27 different weak points that all had different functionality, this particular part and make it (mumbles) it acts in a different and it acts in a certain way. And everything also needed A large portion of our sure, you can add more to these things, but ultimately, a Christmas tree isn't really readable. - I think originally like, had to be unique resource. These kind of things. I cannot make that So you know, we brought three or four. But we probably started off with like 12 different unique off the machines, so it was like ah. - At some point, with the hidden meters inside the machines. And all the different They had stamina and they they got tired from running there were so many systems at play that we didn't know ourselves exactly how to fight these machines. So that was kind of a let's dial it back and let's what is the most interesting for players to understand And that it's shooting like shooting the plates, that's something players And it's nice to break things, when you shoot something, So then we thought, okay, we have these, let's put a bigger let's do more with those. - Which is also the reason the Thunderjaw as like just because we knew if we could hit all the things that would on this one particular break it down into smaller pieces and integrate those on the smaller robots like the Watchers and stuff like that. That was more the exercise, okay, what is like the total package and then sort of like break it down into the smaller sections to the other robot. - It took us 18 months to develop it. At E3 in 2015, where we announced it, this was also pretty much basically the only fully functional And even then, basically, it required a lot of scripting to So like, it was this race, it was okay, we're gonna show the where you can hunt all the this works and that it works really well. - Here we go. Oh, someone's angry! (explosions) (groaning) (heavy breathing) Gotta get under it. (screeching) Got it! (calm music) - Older design implementation of robots were like 50 or 60 pages per robot before we eventually started making them. 'Cause everything had Describing everything to what they're able to do idle and in stealth and group behavior. All the weak points, All those kinds of things, hit reactions. Everything was defined. - For example, with the Ravager, right, the Ravager was I think actually the one that we started like a after we did all the prototyping. And then, looking at it from and also from a ratio point of view, that thing was just a predator just like hunting its prey, right? So that's one thing that I really wanted to emphasize in animation. And that's where all this, so like, as soon as we started for like panthers, hyenas, et cetera, that are chasing their prey. It's all like, especially a they're at such high speed that, as soon as they sort of like there's all this sort of on their legs trying to and that's something that I really wanted to emphasize on the motion on those. - To build a machine based again, you get all these You know, you get all power curves and all these And then we started building and instead of like doing machine stuff, we started and everything became nice and organic. And on top of that, you And of course, they follow and then you put in the this sort of super angular you know, from the inside this new machine that retain all these nice curves organic and actually became alive. - [Danny] One of the strongest aspects of the machines' design The machines in Horizon while giving the player for them to react to. As I discovered, much like of these machines, a for the sounds came from animals. - It's something that we wanted like for the attacks to have a So that even offscreen, you would know an attack would be coming next to the visual kind of things that we do. And we wanted to have that character that we were describing also I think we also used like in one of his attacks. So that kind of like Like the (imitates dog barking). (laughs) - Okay, so the Longlegs I but also, I don't want to say this, but yeah, I'll say it, whatever. It was a lot of me, actually, yeah. - [Danny] Mimicking a chicken? - Yeah. People will hear it after this, (laughs) So actually, when I got robot designs, there wasn't any instructions as to they were gonna have a vocalization. The term vocalization came probably from, actually, my idea that I need them to create a character. My goal was to have, especially that are sort of in a group and if they're clearly I thought okay, they would you can just observe them and have this chatter-chitter going on. But they had to be that we really needed to communicate. Say, when they see you first time or when they get alerted to in between a combat situation All these animations they are there to create their, sort of communicate their So to create this sort of iconic relatively easy to but still keep them attached to the size or the character of the robot. - Our goal was that, by you could tell what it was Just by hearing. So you would hear if it was searching, if it's found something, if it was about to attack. So all of these stages, that are important for the player, we wanted the player to, only by audio to be able to know what was going on. So that helps if, once we that helped enormously that might not be in your view. You could still hear what they're doing. And I think players, but I think they, at some point, will learn what specific what's going on and if they need to run or dodge or do something else. - [Danny] Over the course of years, these machines evolved to prototypes to the They were iterated on, given new looks, personalities, new combat rules, audio cues and so much more. They look and feel like real, believable, animalistic machines. And so perhaps the biggest testament to the quality of work that was done to animalize these impacted the wildlife in this game. Is there any AI or anything that's shared, or animations that's shared between the machines and the fauna, - Yes. We did reuse some animations - I think basically all the wildlife, as we call it in game, on one of the like machine It was like one of the when in the end, it actually worked out just because they're so animalistic, so we actually transferred over to them. And as soon as we had that, a little bit, of course, but a lot of sort of like the beta animation come actually, they come - They evolved into real creatures. - Yes, exactly. - [Danny] All right. (calm music) The game was chopped at it didn't originally have but through play testing, they realized they needed some for the various types of tribal cultures. The Tallnecks, known were originally huntable. You may remember them walking in herds in the original E3 2015 reveal. But some of the team didn't think murdering these elegant worked with Aloy's character. There was years of work done with distinct beliefs, We're going to publish extended interviews containing a lot more of this at a later date. As the project barrels towards so much more had to be completed. A game at this scale working well and well together. The team all agreed that had it not been for these final months, Horizon: Zero Dawn may not have come together at all. - I think we were fortunate Figuring out kind of lots of who is Aloy, what is her How old is she, what does she look like? All this stuff just took a But also, yeah, the same How does, the unique of course, these machines But we didn't know how we Looking at the Horizon, we might feel like we already knew exactly that combat would be like this but that wasn't a straightforward thing that we just ended up there. It was a lot of and adding and changing and simplifying in a lot of cases as well. A year and a half before we first saw okay, this combat - We were immensely fortunate to find Ashly Burch to play Aloy. We actually had, we We even had, for some of we had sort of placeholder dialogue that was put in place by other actors. And none of that ever felt right. And the moment that we it was like oh, there's Aloy. It was that feeling of discovery. - I think I'm most proud on how everybody worked together on it. Like, it's the beautiful nature, we get a lot of praise It's really so many different teams who had to collaborate I mean, there's the huge of things to get it to stream and the procedural content Up to the sound team every ecotope, as we call them, So they actually went to do the research and have that all work together. It's really hard to at the game three months it was nowhere near the end results. And then even when you that's such a long time, more or less, does it but it does, it totally does. - The technology enables, you can show a lot more in your assets, in your animations. But also, the consumers, they expect a lot more scope, gameplay duration. I'm actually really proud of the fact of the fact that we have been that people embrace and wanna follow, and I've gotten a lot who have daughters that, you know, they go training like Aloy did with Ross and they go practice, and people with, you know, with daughters that are three, four years and they're practicing and they're doing dodge rolls and they're So it seems that Aloy, to many people, was an important character. And I don't think we've that really inspired so many people, including young girls, that we have been able to create that. - [Danny] Do you have kids yourself? - I have a 13 year old son. And he was not allowed to play and he had not wanted to come 'cause he wanted to play it in one go, but he finishes his test today. And I think starting at three today, he will be well into the Frozen Wilds. - [Danny] Do you make your - I'll let mister PR here answer that one. (laughter) - It's the same thing I think Also what we achieved before that actually sunk what we built and how much But it's incredibly motivating, of course, to see this response, and to start on a new adventure. - [Danny] Are you sick of - Oh, no, no. (footsteps) (birds chirping) - [Aloy] These look good. (ominous music) (whooshing) (rustling) (explosion) (clanking) I can't spare the weight. (explosion) (typing)