You're looking at a woman Obviously, that's changed, but only recently. It was several months ago that I gave at the Forbes &quot;30 Under 30 Summit&quot; -- 1,500 brilliant people, That meant that in 1998, and the youngest, just four. I joked with them that some might only Yes, I'm in rap songs. (Laughter) Almost 40 rap songs. (Laughter) But the night of my speech, At the age of 41, I was hit on (Laughter) I know, right? He was charming, and I was flattered, and I declined. You know what his unsuccessful He could make me feel 22 again. (Laughter) (Applause) I realized, later that night, I'm probably the only person over 40 (Laughter) (Applause) At the age of 22, And at the age of 24, I learned the devastating consequences. Can I see a show of hands of anyone here who didn't make a mistake Yep. That's what I thought. So like me, at 22, a few of you and fallen in love with the wrong person, maybe even your boss. Unlike me, though, your boss probably wasn't the president (Laughter) Of course, life is full of surprises. Not a day goes by that I'm not and I regret that mistake deeply. In 1998, after having been swept up I was then swept up into the eye like we had never seen before. Remember, just a few years earlier, news was consumed from just three places: reading a newspaper or magazine, listening to the radio or watching television. That was it. But that wasn't my fate. Instead, this scandal was brought to you by the digital revolution. That meant we could access when we wanted it, anytime, anywhere. And when the story broke in January 1998, it broke online. It was the first time the traditional news for a major news story -- a click that reverberated What that meant for me personally was that overnight, I went from being to a publicly humiliated one, worldwide. I was patient zero of losing almost instantaneously. This rush to judgment, led to mobs of virtual stone-throwers. Granted, it was before social media, but people could still comment online, e-mail stories, and, of course, e-mail cruel jokes. News sources plastered to sell newspapers, banner ads online, and to keep people tuned to the TV. Do you recall a particular image of me, Now, I admit I made mistakes -- especially wearing that beret. (Laughter) But the attention and judgment not the story, but that was unprecedented. I was branded as a tramp, tart, slut, whore, bimbo, and, of course, &quot;that woman.&quot; I was seen by many, but actually known by few. And I get it: it was easy to forget that that woman was dimensional, had a soul and was once unbroken. When this happened to me 17 years ago, Now we call it &quot;cyberbullying&quot; Today, I want to share talk about how that experience has helped and how I hope my past experience that results in less suffering for others. In 1998, I lost my reputation I lost almost everything. And I almost lost my life. Let me paint a picture for you. It is September of 1998. I'm sitting in a windowless office room inside the Office underneath humming fluorescent lights. I'm listening to the sound of my voice, my voice on surreptitiously that a supposed friend I'm here because to personally authenticate For the past eight months, has hung like the sword I mean, who can remember Scared and mortified, I listen, listen as I prattle on about the flotsam listen as I confess my love and, of course, my heartbreak; listen to my sometimes catty, being cruel, unforgiving, uncouth; listen, deeply, deeply ashamed, a self I don't even recognize. A few days later, the Starr Report and all of those tapes and transcripts, That people can read the transcripts But a few weeks later, the audiotapes are aired on TV, and significant portions The public humiliation was excruciating. Life was almost unbearable. This was not something that happened and by &quot;this,&quot; I mean the stealing conversations or photos, and then making them public -- public without consent, public without context and public without compassion. Fast-forward 12 years, to 2010, and now social media has been born. The landscape has sadly become much whether or not someone and now, it's for both public The consequences for some I was on the phone with my mom and we were talking about the news from Rutgers University, named Tyler Clementi. Sweet, sensitive, creative Tyler while being intimate with another man. When the online world the ridicule and cyberbullying ignited. A few days later, Tyler jumped from to his death. He was 18. My mom was beside herself about and she was gutted with pain in a way that I just couldn't And then eventually, reliving a time when she sat reliving -- (Chokes up) sorry -- reliving a time when she made me and reliving a time that I would be humiliated to death, literally. Today, too many parents to step in and rescue their loved ones. Too many have learned after it was too late. Tyler's tragic, senseless death It served to recontextualize and I then began to look at the world and see something different. In 1998, we had no way of knowing where this brave new technology Since then, it has connected people joining lost siblings, saving lives, launching revolutions ... But the darkness, cyberbullying, had mushroomed. Every day online, people -- who are not developmentally are so abused and humiliated that they can't imagine living And some, tragically, don't. And there's nothing virtual about that. Childline, a UK nonprofit that's focused released a staggering statistic from 2012 to 2013, in calls and e-mails A meta-analysis showed that for the first time, cyberbullying was leading more significantly than offline bullying. And you know, what shocked me -- was other research last year that determined humiliation than either happiness or even anger. Cruelty to others is nothing new. But online, technologically uncontained and permanently accessible. The echo of embarrassment used to extend school or community. But now, it's the online community too. Millions of people, often anonymously, and that's a lot of pain. And there are no perimeters around and put you in a public stockade. There is a very personal price and the growth of the internet For nearly two decades now, we have slowly been sowing the seeds in our cultural soil, Gossip websites, paparazzi, news outlets and sometimes hackers all traffic in shame. It's led to desensitization which lends itself to trolling, This shift has created &quot;a culture of humiliation.&quot; Consider a few prominent examples Snapchat, the service which is used and claims that its messages You can imagine the range A third-party app which Snapchatters use was hacked, and 100,000 personal conversations, to now have a life span of forever. Jennifer Lawrence and several other actors and private, intimate, nude photos without their permission. One gossip website for this one story. And what about The documents which received were private e-mails that had But in this culture of humiliation, there is another kind of price tag The price does not measure which Tyler and too many others -- notably, women, minorities have paid, but the price measures the profit This invasion of others is a raw material, efficiently and ruthlessly mined, A marketplace has emerged and shame is an industry. How is the money made? Clicks. The more shame, the more clicks. The more clicks, We're in a dangerous cycle. The more we click on this kind of gossip, the more numb we get And the more numb we get, All the while, someone is making money off of the back With every click, we make a choice. The more we saturate our culture the more accepted it is, the more we will see behavior some forms of hacking and online harassment. Why? Because they all have This behavior is a symptom Just think about it. Changing behavior begins We've seen that to be true and plenty of other biases, today and in the past. As we've changed beliefs more people have been offered When we began valuing sustainability, more people began to recycle. So as far as our culture what we need is a cultural revolution. Public shaming and it's time for an intervention The shift begins with something simple, but it's not easy. We need to return to a long-held compassion and empathy. Online, we've got a compassion deficit, an empathy crisis. Researcher Brene Brown said, and I quote, &quot;Shame can't survive empathy.&quot; Shame cannot survive empathy. I've seen some very dark days in my life. It was the compassion and empathy and sometimes even strangers that saved me. Even empathy from one person The theory of minority influence, proposed by social psychologist says that even in small numbers, when there's consistency over time, change can happen. In the online world, by becoming upstanders. To become an upstander means we can post a positive comment for someone Trust me, compassionate comments We can also counteract the culture that deal with these kinds of issues, like the Tyler Clementi in the UK, there's Anti-Bullying Pro; and in Australia, there's PROJECT ROCKIT. We talk a lot about our right But we need to talk more to freedom of expression. We all want to be heard, but let's acknowledge the difference and speaking up for attention. The internet is But online, showing empathy and helps create a safer and better world. We need to communicate consume news with compassion and click with compassion. Just imagine walking a mile I'd like to end on a personal note. In the past nine months, the question I've been Why now? Why was I sticking my head You can read between the lines and the answer has nothing The top-note answer was and is Time to stop tiptoeing around my past, time to stop living a life of opprobrium and time to take back my narrative. It's also not just about saving myself. Anyone who is suffering from shame needs to know one thing: You can survive it. I know it's hard. It may not be painless, quick or easy, but you can insist Have compassion for yourself. We all deserve compassion and to live both online and off Thank you for listening. (Applause and cheers)