"It is quite impossible to consider the They are all mere structural details of its When Frank Lloyd Wright designed the Robie for modern living which would continually day. Hi everyone, Ken here, welcome to &quot;ThisHouse&quot;!! Today we are exploring the house that defied living. Make sure to hit that subscribe button so Before open floor plans became the norm in featured a series of smaller rooms, dedicated But Frank Lloyd Wright rebelled against this flexible, and above all else, in harmony with He developed a school of thought based on by scholars, The Prairie School. This approach to design emphasized long, horizontal prairies of the Midwest. With craftsmanship taking the place of ornamentation, to the artistic styling found in the Gilded time. The way in which we interact with our homes Finished in 1910, the Robie House on the South became that very house. Frank Lloyd Wright arranged the facade to low pitched roofs cantilevering far beyond To further emphasize the horizontal, he instructed the brick, a terracotta color for vertical joints, creating an illusion for a distance linear element. The interior of the home was centered around from which each main public space would be The overall effect lead to an open floor plan, before. Entering the home from the sidewalk, you would below it to find the front door hidden in You would then arrive in the entrance hall space around you. On the first floor you would find a billiards including a broiler and a coal storage room, see natural sunlight illuminating the climb level. As you arrive in the stair hall, the massive and living room going in either direction In these spaces you would find custom furniture, his associates to perfectly balance the interior the spaces together. To remove the boundary between indoor and walls composed of art glass opening onto terraces To achieve this, he removed the necessity steel beams anchored in piers on two sides The ceiling inside was decorated with simple, light sources, such as globes and screens flood each space. The dining room boasted furniture designed drop of art glass angled to become one of All throughout the house, wright played with dramatic effect. He further relied on perfect craftsmanship and delineate spaces. The openness of the floor plan allowed for for function. The ability of the interior of the home to design of the furnishings, but also in the lines behind glass panels and a central island, the likeness of the roofs overhanging eaves. Up until 1926, the house changed hands along it was sold to the Chicago Theological Seminary as a dining hall. As they were throwing the furniture in the pulled most of the discarded furniture out In 1941, the seminary announced plans to demolish but as things started to heat up during World In 1957, the seminary once again announced it with dormitories prompting international Protests, letters, articles, and speeches the world including notable architect Mies Wright's work. Frank himself, at the age of 90 years old, at the seminary, saying, "It all goes to to the clergy." Realizing that they would not budge on their Phi Delta Theta which was located just a couple With the help of another Fraternal Organization, Fraternity houses for the dormitories instead Thankfully, the seminary found this to be house from demolition. But the house was still in terrible shape, and desecrated by its users. One of Frank's friends, real estate developer and donated it to the University of Chicago. The Seminary's Janitor then donated the and it was slowly put back together. Finally, in 2002, the house was turned over painstakingly putting the house back together Then, in 2019, the organization completed the house to the public for tours. While much of the interior now appears as furniture collections have made their rounds set which can be found at the Smart Museum If you have had the opportunity to visit and public for tours, I would love to hear about section. And while you're there, make sure to hit fascinating episode of &quot;ThisHouse&quot; I would thank you to our &quot;ThisHouse&quot; Supporters whose If you would like to see your name on this of these videos, join our membership program I'll see you next time on &quot;ThisHouse&quot;