What do Catherine the Great and Not much I'm not gonna lie, but what there is is delicious They're called bierocks, and they are beef and cabbage stuffed into a sweet dough, and truly one of my favorite things to make. I am so excited to share these with you. The bread reminds if you like those or really anything that's delicious you'll want to stick around. So thank you to Babbel for sponsoring this video as we make one of my favorite foods ever, and explore the connection between the Empress of this time on Tasting History. I LOVE bierocks. I would have one of those I love New York but maybe I'll actually do that. They are so so good. My dad used to make and you knew it was because they're not They do require a bit of work but I promise you it is so worth it. Now this is one of those dishes where I had trouble finding a lot of historic recipes. Most everything the early 20th century. These were cookbooks that recipes from your aunt Ida and whatever compiled and then and since they're compiled from a bunch of different people they're usually written in all different styles. So you have some and then you have recipes that are like Things like &quot;Beef and Kraut cooked together. Flavor and make Beerocks.&quot; Didn't even spell it right, and what's worse most of these recipes even though they were done in like the Midwest are in German and not just any German but a German that is and punctuated with bits of Russian and English in it. And I'll explain how that happened a little bit later on, but suffice it to say my two semesters of German in and I really probably should have brushed up on Babbel is a fantastic way to learn a language whether you want to translate old recipes or more practically if you want to converse with people in another country for business, or if you're doing any traveling. Well maybe you just want to learn a new language for the sake of learning something new which frankly I think is the best reason to ever learn anything. Babbel offers short 10-minute interactive lessons rather than an algorithm and Babbel can have and it's not just vocabulary. You also learn some of the culture and the idioms of your chosen language which can be very important like in Spanish I learned that 'hechar una mano' means to help someone out, but literally it means means something very, very different so it's good to learn these things. So if you want to start speaking a new language in as little as then sign up for Babbel using my link in the That's 65% off when you use my link in the description to sign up for Babbel. Now when it comes to the recipes I did finally get them translated for the most part, but they still weren't very helpful because they were so poorly written so this is cobbled from a little bit of those, and more from recipes a little bit later on 40s, 50s and 60s. Also it is a bit of a process so I'm gonna actually break it up kind of into 2 parts. First the dough and then the filling. So for the dough what you'll need is: one and a half teaspoons of active dry yeast, six cups or 720 grams of flour, 2/3 cup or 135 one and a half cups or 350 milliliters of milk, and two eggs eggs lightly beaten. So first pour the milk into a large saucepan and set it over medium heat to scald the milk. Stirring frequently you want to bring it to 180 degrees Fahrenheit or 82 degrees Celcius. Scalded milk is actually great for pretty much all baked recipes but especially cakes and breads. They tend to make them rise more and just be softer and fluffier, it's a fantastic trick. Now as soon as the milk hits 180 degrees take it As you whisk it in it'll help bring down the temperature of the or else it will kill the yeast when we add it. And as for the yeast add it to that quarter cup of lukewarm water and sprinkle just a little bit of the sugar in. Then mix it up and let it sit until it's nice and foamy. In a separate bowl whisk together the flour, salt and sugar making sure that everything is well incorporated. Then pour in the activated yeast, the eggs, and the milk and butter mixture, and mix until the ingredients come together to make a dough, and it will come together to make a dough, but that dough is going to be really, really sticky and frankly not very pleasant to work with. So you can knead this by hand for about 15 minutes, but it's going to be so much easier to do it in a stand mixer if you have one. So if you do have one now is the time to use it though you might have to add just a few tablespoons more flour, but do it sparingly. You're looking for a nice silky kind of elastic dough, but it's still going to be rather sticky and you it will firm up as it rises. So put the dough in then uncover it, punch it down and then recover it and let it rise for another 30 minutes and while it rises I wanted to let you know that my brother and I are leaving later this week for a trip to Scotland where I'm going to be filming a few episodes, and doing some other stuff over there so if you want to follow along on the trip and maybe get some food history snippets while I'm over there then follow me on Instagram @tastinghistorywithmaxmiller and you'll get to be part of the trip, but that I would explain this connection The story of the bierock and the people who made them begins in 19th century Prussia where it was decided that a young princess named Sophie was to marry Peter, the future tsar of Russia. So at the age of 16 this well-educated princess Sophie left her German-speaking friends and family and her German culture to take up residence at the Winter Palace in Saint Petersburg as the Grand Duchess Ekaterina Alekseyevna the future Catherine the Great. Now Catherine's early years in Russia are an entire video on what they ate at the Winter Palace it's spectacular, but for this just know that in 1762 she led a coup against her husband Tsar Peter With her husband out of the way Catherine that it was about time they settled some especially those lands along the South Volga River. The area was lush and the soil was good but it was way far away from pretty much everything and the only people who lived there were bandits constantly robbing people so so her people didn't really want to move there and this was also a time where the majority of her country were still surfs and they couldn't go anywhere... so yeah nobody was going. But at the same time the Seven Years War one leaving much of Western Europe in a social and economic mess, so Catherine decided to do as many monarchs had done before her and She wrote two manifestos. Now the first one didn't issued on July 22 1763 was far more successful. &quot;We, Catherine the Second, by the grace of God... are sufficiently aware of the vast extent of the lands within Our a considerable number of regions are still uncultivated which could easily and advantageously be made available for productive use of population and settlement... We permit all foreigners to come Since those foreigners who would like to settle in Russia will Russia will transport them at our expense and also provide them with travel money.&quot; It's really not that bad of a deal, plus she said the immigrants could settle anywhere in Russia that they liked and they could all apply for long-term, interest-free loans to pay for farms, equipment, and other industry once they settled. They were also exempt from military service and exempt from taxes of any kind for the first 30 years if they settled in the country, and the first 5 if they settled in a city. They were free to practice their religion and even build churches and bell towers. Though no monasteries for some reason and they were forbidden from trying to convert the Russian Orthodox people to their brand of Christianity. The only citizens that they were allowed to convert &quot;Win them over and make them subject to the Christian Well this offer was very tempting and so over the next three years 30,000 Germans packed up and headed to Russia, and the only reason that it didn't continue seeing all their people getting up and leaving were and Catherine didn't really put up a fight when that happened and 2) because they were paying for everyone they kind of ran out of money. But for those Germans, and there were others who did make it to Russia they found that most... One that was not kept was the guarantee to settle anywhere you liked. Instead most of them were gently guided to the Volga River Valley. Just and did they love it? Not at first. See, many found that no matter what profession they had back in their home country they were probably going to be a farmer in Russia because you know if there were two surgeons in your group of settlers [Imitates roshambo/rock paper scissors] farmer. Also that first Russian winter really One settler recalled &quot;After much longing, spring finally came. However, there was no enthusiasm in the people to enjoy the splendors of nature as they stared upon each Now the first 10 years were really kind of touch and the South Volga River became a German enclave within Russia. They spoke German, they celebrated German holidays, all of their architecture was in the German style mostly Catholic Lutheran reformed and Mennonite. Now sometimes a bit of that Russian culture would sneak in, it couldn't help but do so, especially Back in Germany they ate cabbage and sauerkraut it was the whole dish because along with wheat and and much of their cuisine was basically these One Russian food in particular that seemed to have fried dough often filled with meat cabbage and but there's another theory that the name actually comes from a Turkish meat filled pastry but the pastry actually looks quite a bit different. So who knows but either way bierocks were one of those dishes that the Volga Now the exodus of Volga Germans from Russia lasted several decades culminating in a genocide by Stalin but it's that Basically when Catherine the Great died the rights enumerated in her Manifesto which were never fully real realized really started to be stripped away completely. And between 1871 and 1874 the last of those rights The straw that broke the camel's back was the revocation of See a lot of the Volga Germans were Mennonites and so with the possibility of violence now in their future they packed up and left. &quot;Here in Russia it's no good to live, we must arm men as soldiers give and now as soldiers we must stand, that's why we leave the Russian land.&quot; Several parties were sent out to find new lands to finally in Argentina but most of them went to the United States. The first Scouts landed in New York and found it quite unsuitable. Then they moved on to Ohio which too was less than ideal but finally they got to Nebraska and Kansas and they that it was as if they were already home but it turns out they had trouble fitting in and I kind of imagined Kansas in the 1870s to be a lot like that scene when Harold Hill first gets off the train in River City Iowa. I'm a stranger in your town. What do you folks do around here for excitement? Mind our business. Less than hospitable to strangers and it didn't help that they didn't speak English couldn't really understand them well enough because they and now it was also punctuated with little bits of Russian. So they kind of kept to themselves and this led to several generations of people just still speaking German. And their culture and food seems relatively unchanged in some places going all the way up to World War II, but the war really opened things up forever everyone This is when recipes really start to to vary in lots of new ingredients are being added though the bones are pretty much still always the same today as they were 150 years ago, and this is also when you start to see other which may be what Sarah Sally Everett's family in Nebraska called them when she modified their recipe and shortened the name to runza and she and her brother in 1949 began selling them and now today are the Runza restaurant chain has 86 locations, but as there is no Runza restaurant anywhere and they still need a filling. So for the filling 2 to 3 tablespoons of oil for frying, one large yellow onion diced, one pound or 450 grams of lean ground beef, a half cup or 150 grams of sauerkraut drained of any liquid, one teaspoon of crushed caraway seeds and salt and pepper to taste. I start off with about a teaspoon of each, you can add more later on but the sauerkraut if and it's kind of hard to gauge what it's actually Now those are the standard ingredients that but then they're almost always other ingredients added could be anything from cheese to dill, to pickle two to three tablespoons should do it. So first then add the onions and cook them until they're Then increase the heat a bit, and add the ground beef. Break it up as it's cooking and then let it cook for seven to eight Then add the shredded cabbage. Now depending on the size let it cook down for a minute and then put in the other half. Let it cook for a few minutes making sure everything gets mixed up and then add and finally the mustard or whatever other Keep mixing and then let it cook for another five minutes. Then give it a taste and adjust any of the flavors, more salt, more pepper, more mustard. Then remove it from the heat and let it cool to room temperature. And while it cools preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 175 Celsius. Then turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and divide it into and it doesn't need to be a perfect little ball. You're then roll each ball into a disc about six Again doesn't need to be perfect, it doesn't even need to be a disc, it's going to end up being round once we're finished. Then place a heaping third cup of filling into the center of the dough and fold the edges into the middle. Now here is where the shaping actually kind of matters. You want to build up the dough right in doing it that way you want to kind of make a Once they're closed set them on a lined and lightly greased baking sheet making sure to leave an inch between each one. Then you're going to let them rise for another 20 minutes and then pop them into the oven. Now you probably should not do what I do and put them all in at once. You should put one tray in at a time, they color better that way. I was- I don't know what I was thinking. Now depending on your oven it can take 20 to 25 minutes but really what you're looking for is that it's starting but you do want some golden color on the top. Then I mean this recipe just keeps getting better and The aroma of all of that filling just oh it's fantastic. It's like this sweetness from the onion and then obviously the the meat has its from the mustard and I don't know, maybe it's because I grew up on these but it's like Christmas and your birthday all in a Let's give them a shot though. [CHOMP] Real quite hot. So yeah maybe give them a couple It is- it's just so delirious. but then it's filled with meat and the cabbage because it adds a little bit of crunch even though it's cooked and you know soft. There's still a little bit of a crunch there so The FLAVOR is also not like hamburger meat it's so different even when it's just cabbage, onion, and ground beef but when you add the caraway and for me and it's just oh so good. I could eat all of these not in one sitting but in two. I mean they're They're just- I shouldn't but they're so so but it is so so worth it you can even buy the but if you got the time do it from scratch, it's worth it. So just a reminder if you want to follow my trip to Scotland over the next @tastinghistorywithmaxmiller and I'll still have extra content, and I'll see you next time on Tasting History. I might eat all of them. Don't judge me.