[APPLAUSE] So in preparing for this talk, I was actually talking to my daughter, And she said so, so daddy, how, what are And I said, I'm gonna talk about emotional She said, so how do you, how do you start And I was like, you know I, it's different I, I always like to come up with something I said we, how would you start the talk? So she said have you ever felt unseen? Unheard? Not understood? Well today that stops. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; And I was like... That's pretty good. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And it's pretty good for a few reasons. One is that, I like the fact that my intelligence means, and she's ten years And then I also like that it actually the emotional intelligence qualities. Which is that people with good emotional are able to know what they're feeling. They're enabled to know what there know what they want to have be seen. They also know how to express it in a way, then they can also receive it. That they, when they are actually being Which is a little bit more difficult than So today, I'm gonna talk to you for about about how we can be more emotionally more curious about who we are. So that we can be seen, be understood, and Okay? Now whenever I do talks, I like to start Because I believe that by building sort of we are much better at being able to have a can move forward. So, I wanna have that with all of you. And, even though we're a large group we're So, we're gonna start by all agreeing to Let me tell you what I'm asking you to do. So we'll start with showing up. You're showing up. You're bringing yourself, you're bringing And I want you to do that. I want you to bring all of yourself, your your physiology, your behaviors, and your The paying attention part, is about being able to be aware of what's Now, as a speaker, it's always very nice cuz I'm speaking, but what I'm more you to pay attention to yourselves. I want you to pay attention to all of your what's happening to you as we go through So as you might even notice, like right And you might notice that, like as I make eye contact everyone's like What does he want from me? And maybe you'll notice you'll have a Maybe you'll notice that you're having a maybe your heart rate goes up. Maybe you avoid eye contact, cuz you don't just pay attention to what happens to you, The third thing we're gonna do, is we're Now we'll be asking you a few questions nothing that you're gonna have to reveal. You don't have to reveal anything you The telling the truth is about, when you can you say to yourself when you look say I, I am being honest with myself and I So I'm gonna challenge you to be telling The last thing, which I think is actually to be curious about your judgments, rather So, many of you, are gonna have judgments We are, we are judgment-making creatures. We have a lot of factors to us. One of them is that we make judgments and Now, some people say I don't judge. I don't judge, but that can't be possible, judgments in order to make informed So, all I want you to do today is when you just get curious about it. Huh, what's that judgement about? Why am I thinking that? Because that might inform something you Okay. How many of you will agree, that we will I'm gonna do the same. I am going to also, I am going to show up, gonna be curious about and I'm gonna try So can all of, let me see, I wanna see Everyone's hands? Excellent. All right. Very good. This is what we're gonna do today. We're gonna explore our openness to change Because if people aren't open and ready to If your mind is closed and you have inside reject whatever comes your way, if you're So we're gonna talk about how to open Because all of you are gonna be leaders, and we wanna figure out how do we help We open them up. We create a space that engenders change. Then we're gonna talk about how our our perception affect our decision making. So by the end of this you're gonna We're gonna discover three secrets to you're gonna learn about what feelings And then finally you're gonna understand impacts your performance as a leader. Sound good? So I usually ask if anyone here has ever like to find out. Some of you must, have heard of him because I think some of &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; So Daniel Boorstin, I used to say, was people who have heard of him, are the He was the director of the Library of And he has one of my favorite quotes. I'm gonna give you my favorite quote at He says that the greatest obstacle to It's the illusion of knowledge. It's not that we don't know that keeps us It's that we think we know and we close Because human beings have a very We need to know. We like to have answers. And when we don't know something that's don't know what's happening to us we can And when we get scared, we wanna get And one of the ways we get secure is that We build stories and erect bridges of take us from the edge of not knowing, to a And sometimes in the process of building we're actually not paying attention to our And we're losing out on very important That can again help us make more informed So by being open and by being curious, by We can learn more, and we can grow more. But it's a little bit, it's a little bit It can be very vulnerable. So I'm gonna challenge all of you today to when you think you're gonna start creating When you go back to just an automatic Sound nice? Okay. Cuz this is related to our perception. Because in general, and I'm gonna read in general how we perceive and interpret cope, rather than the world itself. Now I suggest this generally. I think this generally is true. And I'll give you an example. How many of you have ever been, angry from Let's say reading an email. Have you ever read an email, as a result [LAUGH] Okay. All right. That makes sense. Everyone, everyone can agree for the most Now, I'm gonna suggest that what made you They're photons, emitting from a light being interpreted by your middle particular your amygdala, which causes an based on the perception that you have, Your own life experience. Your own genetic predispositions and in Because if you take someone who doesn't someone who doesn't know how to read and you put them in front of that same And ask them, look at this thing. Look at this thing! They're not gonna have the same response because it is our perception that creates Now if a lion came in the room, my guess Right? We're all gonna perceive that relatively But if you were, like, a really great lion you grew up with lions, you might not be [LAUGH] Cuz I would be very scared if a Cuz you might know, look, I just move very I don't look at the lion. And I push the other person in front of [LAUGH] So the reality is, is that we have And recognize that we, our perceptions are impacting how we're Because the key today, is about how we're gonna be making choices So I like to define my terms. So I like to define, so I like to define So emotional intelligence is a, I mean, arises spontaneously, rather than through And it's oftentimes associated with some Emotions just happen to us. They occur naturally. And they occur because of an evolutionary That we have developed this skill. This ability to perceive the world, in a and certainly all the reptiles, cuz Limbic systems are where we have this Now the important thing about emotions Now there are general emotions and we're But what triggers your emotions is gonna else's emotions, particularly because of But emotions are gonna happen to you, no And for us to create this sense of, like, emotions don't matter, is actually So you're gonna have emotions, no matter Does anybody know what our four basic I wanna see if anybody remembers. [LAUGH] Anybody? Yeah, let's hear it. [LAUGH] Happy, sad, mad and scared. Happy, sad, mad and scared, that's right. Mad, sad, glad and scared. So, just like there are three primary I didn't even know there were three When my daughter came home from from I know my primary colors, I was like wow, She said well there are only three colors Which I know that there are different hues but for what she was talking about this I didn't realize that is what is it what Mm-hm,. So yellow blue and red make up all of the And I had no idea, but what I did know, Is that we do have primary emotions. That there are four basic emotions. And there is some debate in the research, Some people say there are six, and I'll It's surprise and disgust. Those are the other two that, some But for the heuristic purpose of what a lot of other research will support these are much of what you'll need for all of Okay. That these emotions, make up all the When you feel jealous, what do you think What is it? What? Right. partner is going to leave you, or Sad. Sad because sad is about loss. And so if someone leaves us we feel sad. Yes. Anything else? I think I might be a little bit mad right, So let's talk about what these emotions So mad, is the experience of feeling like Now I have heard people say, oh, I don't get angry, just like the judgement I don't get angry and I, my first reaction so you never feel like anything is unfair Which to me seems crazy. Because I think a lot of folks who when anger, they're confusing, a feeling and an action, and we're gonna talk about that But anger is the experience that something unfortunately, there's a lot of injustice And sometimes when it rains and you want angry because you wanted something Now, it might also make you sad. Because sad is the experience of loss. If we feel like we have lost something If you were really excited about having a outside and it rains. You're gonna also feel sad. You might be angry at the heavens, cuz it will also feel sad, at the loss of having Any time you experience a loss, you're gonna probably experience some kind Glad is when we get the things that we're When we achieve things, when we, when we When we have warm embraces, love, these And then scared, is when we have a not want to happen, is going to happen to It could be one second from now, or it But the experience of fear, is an happen to us, at some point in the future. And those are your four basic emotions. Irritation, that is on a continuum of Frustration, I'm not mad, I'm just Okay, I mean that's on the continuum of You know, I'm disappointed. That's most likely some sadness, possibly Okay? So you wanna hear the three secrets, I Okay. The three secrets work like this. The first one is, we have to know what What triggers things like mad, sad, glad, And I'd like, for just one moment, for all What is it that makes you angry? What makes you angry when you're leading? What are like your buttons, as a leader? And I'd like someone to just throw out a of what makes you angry when you're a I'll give you one example from me. I think some of you may have heard this When I'm running a meeting and people come that I will probably have an initial sense What makes some of you angry? Just, like, know what your buttons are. I'm gonna give you all homework by the Your homework is to write down, a I want you to write down at least five that fit in this category, of what So what makes you angry. So, someone give me an example. Yes. Lack of openness to alternative Excellent. Lack of openness to alternative So a closed mind. Right. has a closed mind, that will irritate you. That's one of your buttons. Yes? Not taking responsibility or being Excellent. So a lack of accountability. Will make you angry. Excellent. Yes. Being untruthful. Being untruthful, so dishonesty, will make Do these all make sense? These feel kind of frustrating and Okay. Your homework, is to go home and write down at least five things in each of And it's important to know what you like. Maybe it's the opposite of these things. I really like people who are honest. I really like people who are accountable But really think about, what are the The triggers to your emotional states. Because, the more aware you are of them, So because I'm aware that I can get Instead of acting on that irritation, I then I can slow myself down to recognize, Maybe they're late for a reason that is And before I start judging what their I'm gonna create space to understand. But I am gonna honor the fact that I have might have to make a choice about doing mind just letting me know, you know, what, And maybe they had a sick child, maybe maybe they had a car accident. Okay? But being aware of what those triggers are The second secret, is how do your feelings How do they emerge in you? Now when I give, like, a three hour workshop I usually have I ask for volunteers and they come up and But today instead of having you all you I'm just gonna do it really quick. I'm gonna pick a bunch of you, to come up act it out and then we'll do that Okay? Okay, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna actually ask anyone to come Because I just wanted to stimulate you for a moment, to feel what it's like to have So I apologize, if any of you freaked out. [LAUGH]. cuz you know that some people say that the being in front of people is worse than So I, I apologize if anyone feels like [LAUGH] You notice anything physically Anybody's heart rate going up a little Anybody notice that they might avert their Because they realize that oh, if he I don't look at him, he can't pick on me. [LAUGH] That's a behavioral manifestation, If maybe you had thoughts, and maybe at you were like, I mean, I think he's a nice But then suddenly he's gonna make me, oh, [LAUGH] Right? So you might have some anger, you might have a thought, you might have a One where you were like, I like this guy, to like, I don't really like this guy Being able to know how your emotions will help you to recognize what you're Cuz a lot of times, our emotions will happen to us faster than Our limbic area and the amygdala in Acts so quickly, that we will have we're cognitively, our middle prefrontal I will talk about that a little bit more Your homework, is to get really clear, For me, when I get scared or anxious, it I can feel a tightness here and I can feel And I know that I'm feeling anxious by checking in with my body, than I do So just pay attention to how that all Finally, the last piece of the secret is How to manage your emotions. What are the ways in which you manage your So when you become angry, do you withdraw? Do you become aggressive? Do you assert yourself? How do you play it out? When you feel overwhelmed, do you go Or do you have a drink? What is your repertoire, of self-care the ways in which you manage yourself. This is your other homework assignment. I would encourage each of you to have at that you do when you get activated what you do to take care of yourself in Whether it's exercise, eating well, breathing, which is probably the best Is to have a very good relationship with abdominal breathing is one of the best And if you haven't, if you don't know what abdominal breathing You can find it anywhere and come to I'll teach it to you right there. Okay. Now, you have your three secrets, so lets find out what emotional intelligence It's very simple and it's very complex. So I, when I was in graduate school, I was the Consortium for Research on Emotional I was co-author of a book called Promoting And we looked at emotional intelligence that were implemented in organizations And they used controlled studies to look an emotional intelligence training program Will they actually show any kind of bottom And the results were, that when people they did show bottom line changes in decreased absenteeism, decreased worker's These were bottom line effects, and this The ability to make healthy choices based understand, and manage your own feelings So it's really being able to understand to be able to understand other people's And then to be able to use that Now there's a more complex definition, emotional intelligence that encompasses 19 Now there are a number of different models I'm using the model that we were using for And you can basically, I'll tell you the The first domain is self-awareness. Self-awareness is the ability to know your your emotional states, like your four strengths and your limitations and to know Self-management is another domain. This is the ability to control impulses This is things like impulse control, Then we have social awareness. Social awareness is the ability to read Things like empathy, things like service So when, or in mentoring. So if you have someone that you're leading with concern and interest in what their These are people high in these And then finally relationship management. Bless you. Relationship management is really about induce desirable behaviors in others. This is around conflict management. And leadership. So the ability to collectively create So clearly emotional intelligence is both it's also a very complex thing. And for today, if you leave here knowing the ability to use your own emotional others, to inform healthy choices. You've got it. Because I said that self awareness is the through four primary points. The first is that, we want to know that a feeling versus an action. I'm gonna say something somewhat I believe it is okay to have murderous How many of you think that is a horrible Nobody does because you've all had it. If you've how many of you have ever had Okay. So thank you you're all with me then. If you've had a child most likely there haven't had this experience, I don't But that there are times where we are But I have never, ever killed one of my [LAUGH] I've never acted on any of these rage, in any way that has physically Thankfully, thankfully. I get how it's difficult though. Because it takes impulse control. Because we have emotions. But there is a difference between having a When we get sad, we can feel sad, but When we are angry, we can feel angry. But aggression is a behavior. That's an action. And there's a difference between yelling angry, than telling them in an assertive you, and what you would like the behavior So there are differences between feelings And being able to be aware of your owning the fact that you could possibly love more then anybody else in the world Because when you own that, you're less Because you can start making choices when Oh I'm having that rage again. You know what, I need to take a step back. I need to breathe. Because I know that this is just a feeling It creates more freedom for us to live. Second thing is recognizing that others ourselves, what I wanna encourage all of is to think about what is your role in any If you find someone irritating, what is it You have a role in every perception you And the challenge is, what is going on And I'm not suggesting that these other Or they aren't bothersome. What I wanna challenge you on, is, what is Because you're perceiving them in some way If you put 100 people in a room, and line ask 'em to have the same response to it's gonna be very different, as we talked So what's your role in it? [BLANK_AUDIO] Neurobiology. The neurobiology of authenticity. So there is a field of research called Danny Siegel out of the University of UCLA has synthesized a lot here. What we've discovered is that humans and Have these parts of our brains called Mirror neurons in our brains that pick up other animals. And humans are animals. So we will pick up on emotional reactions other people sometimes faster than we can So when you experience someone who you but something about you doesn't buy into you feel like there's something about this It is most likely you picking up on their are incongruent and inconsistent with what And you can actually feel that. By paying attention to our own emotional we can glean data that we can't pick up on intellectually, cuz people can, can really But you can sometimes feel when it's And sometimes we need to trust those guts. And sometimes we need to check what's our Is this person just reminding me of my an unfaithful, uncaring kind of person? It depends on your own, your own history, And the challenge of today is to build that curiosity so that you can hone your To be able to manage this most Finally, it's to develop a personal Now some of you have been in my, in my But how many of you here have a personal And in particular, a mission statement as How many of you have a mission statement Okay, great. I am on a mission to have every leader, every real leader, have a leadership And every person to have a personal Now let me tell you what this is. This is a set of guiding principles of why What are the reasons why you are a leader? What are the values and beliefs. And your sense of purpose and meaning that Because when we're leaders, we are inspiring others with a vision that And the more clear you are about your your mission, the more authentic you're And the more people are going to naturally connected to what you want of them. So, I want to challenge all of you, if you to write a leadership personal mission Either one, preferably leadership. This is a leadership talk. And, if you do it, I would like you to do And, if you do, I will send you back a It will be personalized. It will not be generic. You do not have to give me your mission you just have to say that you did it. And I encourage you to do it by 12 o'clock Because you're about to go either on it's the weekend, and if you don't do it the chances are gonna drop dramatically So by 12 o'clock tonight, I'd like you to How many of you are gonna do it? Raise your hand. You promise to be authentic, so don't say you're gonna do it if you're not Raise your hand, I just wanna see your a second, just so have some sense. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, I expect eleven emails by 10 o'clock That would be your accountability factor, otherwise we're gonna have some people who By 12, did I say 11? 12! [LAUGH] 12 o'clock tonight. All right, very good. So what have we done today, in this We've talked about keeping an open mind. OK. We can't do anything unless we have an So we're gonna keep an open mind. We're gonna pay attention to our How are we perceiving the world, and what We learned today that emotions inform we pay attention to them. That's what emotional intelligence is. Is we use our emotions as data to inform You know your four basic emotions. They're so easy, mad, sad, glad, and It's almost like it rhymes. Right? If you remember this, you will never not you feel, you can just stop and go I, I I think I feel sad. Right now I feel glad. But I think you can do it. Self awareness is the, is the foundation Self-awareness is the foundation because It's by paying attention to ourselves that We're the primary tool. As leaders, you are the primary tool, just I'm a psychologist. I am my own most important tool in working And as a leader, you are your most We wanna learn. How to have a personal mission statement in this case a leadership mission So you're gonna lead from that, when you Modeling emotional intelligence in It will, it will model for them and they will have someone to live by The research shows this. And I also encourage you to take breaks, to have fun and I'll leave you with my When we feel good about ourselves, we have Now despite the fact that it's my quote I, actually really like this quote because it And especially for people who are leaders and really We can work so hard to take care of other And all of you work so hard to take care of your company, your But if we don't take care of ourselves We can't be there for other people to do So I wanna challenge all of you to rethink yourselves and to have self care. And to consider how important that is, so that you can give so much more to others. You've been great, thank you so much. [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC]