If you've ever gone to buy an ethernet cable there are several types to choose from. Some of them may say Cat5, Cat5e, Cat6, or But what exactly do all these mean, and does get? Well that's what we're going over today, so save some money. And I'm also going to do a real world test First of all, what the heck are these &quot;Cat&quot; Well for ethernet cables, that stands for different standards and specifications for versions. Now the good news is that all of these cables are all backwards compatible. They all use the RJ45 connector, often just is in the rated performance of each. So let's go over all the different types of Cat5 all the way through Cat7 and beyond. The first type is really common, which is However, these days when someone says Cat5, getting ahead of ourselves. Now a true Cat5 cable is actually obsolete, A cat5 cable is only rated for up to 100mbps So obviously only being rated for 100mbps, you're still using one, you should definitely Which brings us to Cat5e, or Catagory 5 &quot;enhanced&quot;. Cat5e is very common these days, and it is again with a bandwidth of 100 MHz. This is due to improved specs regarding twisting improvements which reduce &quot;crosstalk&quot; or interference, Also, a regular Cat5 cable only required 2 so obviously it can transfer much more data. Though it is important to note that just rating very possible that a cable will be capable So for example, a &quot;Cat5&quot; cable might actually quality. And the same will go for all of these types. After Cat5e came Catagory 6, which bumped 55 meter length, with a bandwidth of 250 Mhz. And by the way, the bandwidth refers to the reliably use, which explains how that would It's got more &quot;space&quot; to fit the data in a Cat6 further reduces crosstalk, using tighter like a plastic core to better separate the Cat6 I would say is a good choice if you're it probably won't be much more expensive, future proof for a while. This is especially so if the wire can't easily where I would get at LEAST Cat6. But, if you're just buying a general purpose would definitely be fine, since I doubt any So by now you might be thinking, ok surely anything more than that? Well, you may be right, but we're not stopping Because there's also Cat6a! This one is also capable of 10 gigabit, but instead of 55, and it has a larger 500MHz So if you are actually running a 10 gig network, full speed, since again it has further improved And now finally, the big daddy of ethernet As far as I could tell, this is the fastest Cat7 is also rated for 10 gigabit speeds, and the strictest specifications for reducing individual wire pairs, as well as the whole This seems to be all about improving reliability, requirement, even though it probably is capable was capable of faster than 10 gig. So I think Cat7 would be best suited for extreme for people who are not just satisfied with unecessary&quot;. Ok, so we've learned that there are tons of does it really matter? Well I wanted to find out, so I decided to I've got three different cables, a Cat5e, And I wanted to find out if they would make connection, since that's really the fastest And yea I know I could do a local gigabit For this I'm simply going to connect my laptop And to make sure there are no limiting factors, a cat7 cable. So what was the difference? Well, none at all. As I pretty much expected, with such a short of handling the full gigabit connection. I had also tested upload speed but it was consider that. Then out of curiosity, I did a speed test port in the wall, using my apartment's Cat6 And with what I would guess is an extra 50 less than 10 megabits, so a loss of less than So the takeaway here is that unless you need it really doesn't matter what type of cable Perhaps if you have tons and tons of cables shielding on the better catagories will help matter. But you may all be wondering, what's the point use them! Well, part of it's marketing, since it's easy higher number, which of course costs more. But of course there is networking hardware commercial equipment. However, we are starting to see some 10 gigabit For example, there's the Asus XG-U2008 switch, 8 regular gigabit ports. So you could hook up your computer, and maybe then everything else to the gigabit ones. That way, even if none of the other device it would allow multiple gigabit data transfers devices simultaneously, or a 10 gigabit transfer In that sort of situation, where you do have be required, at least for the 10 gig ports. And if it's over any kind of distance, Cat6a But something tells me not too many people So I guess my takeaway from all this is that well. Believe it or not, the same RJ45 connector in 1987! At that time, the initial spec was only 3KHz So I think it's safe to say that that connector soon, since it seems like there's still a So I think that's it, hopefully you guys thought I'd love to hear what you think down in the Are you still using old Cat5 cables, or do I myself kinda went crazy recently and bought never find any when I needed them. And I used the Cat7 cables to connect all switches hooked up to it for maximum performance, I wanted to remove all doubt. But anyway, if you guys did like this video, it, and if you want to keep watching I'll click on these even if you're on a phone. If you want to subscribe, I make new videos consider clicking the bell next to the subscribe might not even show you the new videos. So, thanks again for watching guys, looking I'll see you next time, have a good one.