How are you saints? I'll say it again. How are you, saints? Okay. You should be, you saved, I mean, If that ain't enough to make you happy, I don't know what to tell you. Um, if you have your Bibles, please turn to John chapter 21. Starting at verse 15. It says, when they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon son of John, do you love me? He said to him, yes Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, feed my sheep. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you want it, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands and another will dress you and carry you where you don't want to go. This he said to show him by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, follow me. Today we're gonna talk about the gospel for the fallen. When Jesus said, if anybody would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. A man that we just read about, a man by the name of Peter was there. He was only there because those two words follow me, is what Jesus told him too. While fishing with his brother one day Peter met the Christ and on hearing him say those two words, he left everything so that he could actually obey it. And Peter obeyed it kind of, but he obeyed it to the best of his ability. He followed Jesus everywhere he went. He followed Jesus when he preached. He followed Jesus when he prayed. He followed Jesus when he did miracles and don't think that his following Jesus was limited to being only what his feet would do, his following jesus also meant that he was obedient to Jesus. That all that he preached was for him to believe, and all that he did was for him to imitate. When Jesus told Peter to follow me, it declared that Peter had a new master now. And this master had an agenda. He wasn't just some random man telling folks what to do. He was God himself who had come so that the consequences of for, for people following all these other folks and these other gods that, that would be dealt with, he had come to die so that these people would live. A little time before Jesus was about to die, he told his disciples how they would all fall away because of him. Peter being the presumptuous man that he is, tells Jesus, who again is God by the way, though, they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Never, Peter, as if we don't have receipts for how often you do fall, like when, when you had enough confidence to walk on water with Jesus, but not enough faith to keep you from sinking when you thought that the winds were stronger than the power of God. Before we began, we read John 21. In It is this exchange between Jesus and Peter following Peter's betrayal of Jesus. So clearly what Peter says won't happen, ever does. He does fall away for a time. But why do you think he thought he was exempt from falling? Simply put pride. Pride will have you really believing that being committed to Jesus with your words means that you are committed to Jesus with your heart. Titus 1:6 says that there are people who will profess, have words that they know God, but by their works, they deny him. Words don't ensure commitment. And anybody who has had any experience with a man who has more self-control over his words than he does his body recognizes that this is the truth. Someone might say, well, Outta the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. So could it have been that Peter's words are just the evidence of his great love for God? And I would respond by saying this. Listen to his words again. He says, though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. I mean Jesus, even though you got, you're God and everything that you say is right, you're right about them, but you wrong about me. We are all in the same boat as Peter. Pun intended. You called it. Got it. We are all in the same boat as Peter when we think that we are stronger than everybody around us. When you see this person get a divorce and you declare, I would never do that. When you see this person fall into sexual sin and say, I would never do that, when you see this person sat down in ministry and say, I will never go through that. How can you be so sure? Most folks that have fallen into sin were at some point overconfident that they wouldn't. It's the judgment in us, the arrogance, the misplaced confidence. It's the inability to take heed to what God has told us about ourselves and our nature and our flesh that will make it possible for our flesh to actually get the best of us. You are not simply in danger when you're start, when you start sinning, you are in danger when you start believing that you can. Jesus tells Peter, truly, I tell you, y'all can't be on Instagram in the middle of the word. You gotta mute it, sir. You, you take the picture and you mute it. Then you, you recap it later to see if you got the part that you wanted to upload, right? Jesus outta order in the sanctuary, God, Jesus tells Peter, truly, I tell you this very night before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. Let me read what follows. This is in Luke 22 you ain't even gotta turn to it I'll read it for you. Then they seized him talking about Jesus and led him away, bringing him into the high priest's house, and Peter was following at a distance. And when they had Kindle the fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat down among them. Then the servant girl seeing him as he sat in the light and looked closely at him, said, This man was also with him. But he denied it, saying woman, I do not know him. And a little later someone else saw him and said, you are also one of them. But Peter said, man, I am not. And after an interval of about an hour still, another insisted saying, certainly this man was also with him for he too as a Galilean, but Peter said, man, and he cursed too. I do not know what you are talking about. And immediately while he was still speaking, the rooster Crow, and the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the saying of the Lord, how he had said to him before the rooster crows today, you will deny me three times, and he went out and wept bitterly. Jesus always knows what he's talking about. Peter did what Jesus said he would do. He denied him. He'd been with Jesus for three years now. But when confronted and questioned about his allegiance, he denies that he even knows him. The first time Peter denies Jesus is when a servant girl recognizes him. You think that as soon as the words, I don't know this man, came out his mouth, that he would've been convicted then, that he would've said, Ooh, did I just, did I just sin? Did I just deny God? You think that the first denial would've straightened him up, but it didn't. Because he denied Jesus again and again. I don't know if you knew this, but sin will harden you. I've seen this in my life and in others where you tell yourself, I'm gonna just watch it this one time. Yeah, I'm gonna just go over his house this one time. I'm gonna just do this one time. But that one time is never enough. The flesh ain't easily satisfied. You do it again and again until it becomes a pattern and then you become a slave to that thing that God already sets you free from. Peter, as far as we can see, doesn't feel any grief about his denials at first. The text even says that an hour goes by before he does it again. So he had time to think. He had time to realize that's what's happening is that he is falling. But do you know what wakes him up? Do you know what shakes up his world? It's when he sees God's face. Sometimes you can't count on conviction to be the thing that makes you repent. If you are in sin and have been in sin, the heart becomes unfeeling, so it just doesn't respond to truth like it used to. That's why you can go to church and sit under the teaching and listen to gospel music and never find yourself down on this altar because your heart doesn't feel what's being said anymore. So sometimes, the wise thing would be not to wait or expect to just randomly start feeling like you want God again to go to Him. You have to want him, even if your heart doesn't want to, you have to fight to look for him by faith and not by feeling. But the crazy thing about Peter's situation is, it's the Lord who looked at him. I don't know if that means that Peter wasn't looking for Jesus. But clearly God saw him and I wondered how God looked. Jesus had called Peter to follow him. Jesus had given Peter a new name. Jesus had transfigured before Peter. Jesus had given Peter a ministry, and Jesus is the one he refuses to acknowledge when following him gets too difficult. How might Jesus have felt. He was God. Peter Sin was against him. I wonder how his eyes looked? Was there wrath in them? Mercy, sadness when Peter saw them, when Peter saw the face of God, is when his sin, when he was in his sin is when he was able to remember the word of God. For us, we seek the face of God by looking into the word of God and that is what makes even the hardest hearts soft again. Peter left where he was and the text says that he wept bitterly. In other words, Peter was grieved. In his grief, which was a good thing for him to feel because Paul says that Godly grief leads us to repentance. It's the realization of who it is that Peter has sinned against that puts him in this space to feel what it is that he has done. But in that grief, I wonder what he might have been thinking as he left the courtyard. Oh, while weeping did he wonder what Jesus thought about him now. If he changed his mind about loving him, if he deserved to be called a rock, A rock that Jesus said he will build his church on when he's just shown himself to be very unstable. I wonder if he questioned his ministry at all. If has comfort coming to terms with his weaknesses. He was tempted to be that Christian who, because of shame, is fearful to minister again, as if that's also not a command of God. In John 21, after the resurrection of Jesus, Peter and a few other disciples are fishing. I think it's interesting that Peter went back to work after he denied Jesus. They've been up all night. With no fish to show for. Jesus appears on the shore and tells them to cast their nets on the right side of the boat, and when they do it, they get a whole bunch of fish in the boat and they can't even bring the fish in. One of the disciples tell Peter that it's Jesus who's on the shore. Peter being the impulsive man that he is jumps into the water and swims towards Jesus. If Peter had any shame due to his betrayal, he doesn't anymore. When he gets to the shore. Verse nine says that Jesus has a fire set up with fish, and bread for them to eat. The smell of fire might have brought back some memories for Peter. Such as when he was standing near a fire warming his hands while he was denying his God. It ain't that interesting that over a fire is where Peter stopped serving Jesus, and just for a moment, we see that Jesus is here now over a fire serving him. After they eat, Jesus asks peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? Than these? If you can recall when Peter made his boastful proclamation of not being the one to fall away, he made sure to emphasize that these, that these other men would fall away. So the question for Peter is that a mind renewal, how does Peter see himself in relation to Jesus as compared with the other disciples now. Will he again claim to love Jesus more than they do? Peter responds in verse 15, 16, and 17 by saying, yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Notice he doesn't include more than these. In his response to Jesus, you see that Peter's denial has humbled him. A hard fall is a good teacher to those who wanna be tall. Peter knows where arrogance got him last time. He knows better. And not only that, he appeals to Jesus's full knowledge of him as confirmation for his answer. Unlike before, when Jesus told him what his heart was like, you going to deny me three times? He refused to believe it, but now he is more convinced that Jesus not only knows what you do, but why you do it. Yes Lord, you know that I love you. He says These three times after being asked if he loves God. Three times after denying Jesus three times, each time Peter says this, Jesus says something unexpected. He says, feed my lambs, tend my sheep, feed my sheep. You think that after denying the Lord Jesus, that Peter would be excluded from such a ministry? But Jesus still invites Peter on mission with him by giving him the privilege of serving his people. These sheep belong to Jesus. These are his lambs. These are his sheep. These lambs are his, and Peter is being called to take care of them. Why should somebody that failed this bad be given another chance? Because Jesus knows that he loves him Now. And because he loves him, he will love his lambs too. It's not his academic study of Jesus that qualifies him for ministry. It's his affection for God that does, and this affection, this love for God was not the prerequisite for his forgiveness either. God loved him first. After Jesus looked at Peter when he sinned, he actually carried himself to the cross where he carried that sin so that Peter wouldn't have to answer to God for his denial of his son, Peter was loved by God and because he was loved by God, he loved God and returned, and Jesus knows also where this love will ultimately carry peter. Verse 18, truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you want it, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. This he shed said to show about what kind of death he was to glorify God. Peter's gonna die one day, but did you see what his death would do? His death will give God glory. We have a man who met Jesus as a fisherman. Followed Jesus as a disciple and denied Jesus before his crucifixion. But the Peter that denied Jesus at one point will not be the same Peter that dies for Jesus at another. The character trait that caused him to fall will not have the final say over how he will live the rest of his life. He will die giving God glory and you can too. The sins that some of us have or will find ourselves mastered by don't have to shape the rest of our days. We might not know what kind of death we will have, like Peter, who was martyred on a crosswalk hanging upside down. But we have just as much hope for our future as he does. Why? Because he who started the good work and us will finish it. Why? Because those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified how? Because to him, who was able to keep you from stumbling and to present you faultless and blameless before his presence with great joy, how we are now doesn't have to determine how we'll finish. Those who love God will see him. Peter will die for Jesus because Jesus knows that he will live for Jesus. Do you know another reason why Peter's life won't end in him giving into denial again? Because Jesus prayed for him. What am I talking about? In Luke 22, when Jesus tells Peter that he will deny him three times, he began by saying this sentence, Simon simon, behold Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you. That your faith may not fail. When Satan went before God, I promise I'm almost done asking to sift Peter just as he went before asking, went before God to test job, Jesus prayed that in the sifting that takes place, that his faith will not fail. Well you might say, but his faith did fail cuz he denied Jesus. Right? And I say, do you suppose that Jesus doesn't get his prayers answered? That's a serious question. If Jesus prayed that Peter's faith would not fail then his faith will not fail. Even though his faith was tested and his faith failed momentarily, his faith did not fail forever. Jesus prayed a prayer that ensured that Peter would stay strong even when he was weak, and I don't think that Jesus only prayed and don't think that Jesus only prayed for Peter because guess what? He's praying for you too. We have both the spirit of God and the Son of God making intercession for us. I have a text to back that up. Romans 8:26, likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weaknesses for we do not know what we ought to pray, but the Spirit himself does what intercedes for us. I have another one, Romans 8:34, christ Jesus is the one who died. And more than that, who was raised, who was at the right hand of God, who was indeed interceding for us. I don't know about you, but that does something to me, to know that Jesus not only lived the life I could live or died the death that I deserve and resurrected from the grave so that I can have eternal life, but he is also praying for me to get there, to make it, to keep going, to keep fighting, to keep getting back up. Jesus is praying for me to keep reading when nothing in me wants to, to keep praying when I don't feel heard. To keep myself in community, when I wanna isolate myself from everybody who bears his name. Jesus prayer for Peter was heard and answered by God. And it is by virtue of that fact that carried Peter to glory and in the same way. Even now, the fallen saint by looking at the face of Jesus, can be upheld by the intercession of Jesus until one day they are finally the kind of saint that is in the face of Jesus, fully resurrected and glorified. After telling Peter all of this, Jesus says two words that Peter has heard before. They were the words that changed his life. They caused him to leave everything that he knew behind. They were a command and an invitation. These words weren't just for the non-Christian Peter, but also for the sifted peter. Jesus tells him, follow me. Jesus words are simple. He wants Peter to continue in the way He started to keep following god, and these are Jesus' words to us as well. No matter where you are in your walk with God, whether you are barely making it, or delusional to the fall, that might be on the way. Jesus is saying, follow me. And as you do, one day you'll look up and you'll see his face, and there won't be a rooster crow to remind you of your former sins, but only the voice of God telling you. Well done. Let's pray. God, you're much more merciful than we might know, and you're much more holy than we might be willing to believe. Keep us. We have an enemy at our door now trying to tempt us to turn back to all the things that you set us free from. I pray that we would lay aside every way and every sin that so easily entangles us, but that we would run the race that is set before us. We have need of endurance god, please give it so we would enjoy you, obey you, and love you forever. In Jesus name. Amen.