This episode of Crash Course is brought to you by Squarespace. As we saw in the last episode, Jupiter is in the solar system. That means it has a very it can hold on to a lot of moons. A lot. Right now, been confirmed. And how many it really has depends In 1610, Galileo pointed his telescope at Jupiter, He saw three little stars lined up on either his naked eye. And they moved! A week later objects revolving, orbiting around Jupiter. system revolved around the Earth. That was Those four moons are now called the Galilean All four are really big, too. If Jupiter weren't be visible to the naked eye. In that case The biggest of Jupiter's moons is Ganymede. of any planet. It's even bigger than the between Mercury and Mars! Size isn't the only planet-like characteristic ice, but it probably has a liquid iron core. It even has The surface is similar to our own Moon in as well as smoother, younger areas. Ganymede It's not clear what the origin of those strain on the surface caused by the tides from the other Ganymede has a surprise well below its surface, magnetic field, made during multiple passes by the observations of the moon, indicate Ganymede has its surface! As we'll see in a sec, it's The next biggest moon is Callisto, at 4800 to its big brother Ganymede, mostly rock and layer of mixed rock and ice above that. The material as well. It has a magnetic field, too, The surface is heavily cratered, and there's activity. That means the surface is very old, an atmosphere, but it's a tad thin: roughly Earth's air at the surface! Callisto orbits Jupiter farthest out of the too far to gravitationally interact with the each other, it's really the other three Next up is Io. It's only a little bit bigger than it only takes about a day and a half to go When the Voyager 1 space probe passed Io in weird. It was yellow and orange and red and impact craters. An engineer, Linda Morabito, be what looked like another moon behind Io, moon: It was a volcano on Io erupting, its up into a wide arc. Io is the most volcanic object in the entire Quite a few of them are erupting at any given show changes in the surface due to ejected rich in sulfur, which is why the surface has The energy for all this activity comes from orbits they flex it via tides, heating its A lot of that sulfur ends up as a very thin atoms are then picked up by Jupiter's powerful them to very high speeds. This has created Jupiter, like Earth's Van Allen belts, but so intense it would kill an unprotected human in space near Jupiter unprotected, you might Oh, one more thing: Both Ganymede and Io are particles flow from those moons along the slams them down at Jupiter's poles, just the solar wind. On Earth this creates the and it does at Jupiter, too. You can even moons connects to Jupiter; their magnetic And now we come to Europa, the smallest but moons. Slightly smaller than our moon, it was its surface was probably loaded with water ice. They showed a surface completely lacking in the moon like Io or Venus; but Europa has was covered in long cracks, dark streaks all These and other features appear to be due up and forming the new surface, kind of like But in this case, the material is water. It's of water, sealed up under a solid crust of up and moving under the crust causes it to The amount of water that may be locked up all the water in all the oceans on Earth! is kept warm by tidal flexing from the other Now get this: A lot of Europa's material terrestrial planets, located in a layer under in the same way Earth's oceans interact Europan water salty. In fact, those dark cracks in salt and organic materials - in other words, This is pretty exciting. We think Earth's are carbon-based molecules actually in Europa's same spark that occurred here also happened to spawn life. We just don't have any direct Some people have proposed sending a space It would land near a crack in the ice, where the (perhaps melting its way down). Chemical sampling That's amazing to me: The idea of life in is taken very seriously by astrobiologists, in space. It used to be science fiction. Now Astronomers have a concept called the habitable parent star where the temperature on the planet's fuzzy concept; Venus and Mars are both technically too hot and Mars too cold for liquid water. still a useful concept as rule of thumb for But Europa changed that. Jupiter is way, way Europa, all wet. It's a great example that we let them relax and flow outside the boundaries life on planets orbiting other stars, I bet of life we've never considered before. Those are just the four big moons of Jupiter, probably formed along with Jupiter, coalescing as it formed billions of years ago. But the planet has dozens of other moons, common is that they're tidally locked to they go around the planet. Jupiter's tides so no surprise there. The next biggest moon after The Big Four is lump about 250 km across its longest dimension. polluted by sulfur from Io. It orbits just if you stood on Amalthea's surface, Jupiter The moons get smaller and more irregularly and Elara and Pasiphae, down to Hegemone, Kale, Many of the irregular, distant moons of Jupiter others, in what are called retrograde orbits. asteroid belt. Many of the moons have orbital which may indicate they were once a single of moons orbit Jupiter. The smallest moons we've seen are roughly Earth they might be hard to pedal up on a rate as more than debris. There are probably the planet, and who knows, maybe millions Should we even call those moons? Maybe. But thing. The important thing to remember is fascinating, rich, and diverse. And there's Today you learned that Jupiter has lots of rock and ice, though Ganymede, the biggest, volcanoes, and Europa has an undersurface for scientists looking for life in space. to interact gravitationally, providing a source and lots of littler moons, but at the moment Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association over to their channel and find even more awesome The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, and our by Nicholas Jenkins, edited by Nicole Sweeney,