(bell dings) Are you looking for ways to stay You, my friend, are in the right place. osteoporosis exercises, you can build strength, all from the comfort of your own home. Join me in total body workout. And don't forget to check out linked in the description box below for a with osteoporosis. Meet me in your exercise space, baby. Have your weights nearby and stand by we'll be using both things. Are you ready to lateral step right and left with an arm jumping big arm jumping jack. We want to properly warm up our body time and space to do that. I'm just so of your health inside and out. Let's make this we'll have 50 seconds to complete each exercise, Move at a pace that's right for your increase the weight that you're lifting for Good job with this warmup movement. Whew, I'm feeling a little sweaty already. Good job, shake it off. Our next exercise for forward. Let's do a lateral lunge. Send your This movement we will be doing in So we're preparing our body by when you add the weights, you're Send your hips back, feel a and work in the glutes, quadriceps and hamstrings. Breathe. Good job. (bell ringing) Relax. We have knee huggers next. Reach your arms up towards the sky and giving it a big hug. Here we go. Bring Now, if your hips are tight or you aren't able don't sweat it. Just do the best you can. you can stand up there for a So if it's not possible to give it a tap. Do what your body can do today so it can do more tomorrow. Consistency is the key, right? Good, you got it. How's that posture? Stand up tall. (bell ringing) Good job. Now we're going to work First exercise for our left side is a kick. back. You're gonna kick for the toe and stretch it but we are trying to lengthen the hamstring, So just kick off the stress. Don't just move. And if you need to take a pause, I like this exercise because you're single leg stability, posture, (laughing) (exhaling) Also, I get to stand up like a let's switch sides. Did you feel that working second side, let's go for it. Big little leg Notice it's a standing core also. So we're doing standing abs. Good, try not to sink in the supporting so don't do that. Lift, use your (exhaling) Good, let it swing. (exhaling) I'm smiling because I love sharing We have the best community here on this channel. So thank you for being a part of that. (exhaling) Oh yeah, you getting warm? We're revving up that engine. All we're gonna mobilize that upper body. So I just whatever lower body exercise works for you. but think about doing backstroke in a pool, We'll be moving into our strength exercises next, Now the research is showing that we want So I want you to pick up a weight that challenges feel like you could do the exercise all day, every light, okay? So listen to your body today, see Okay, let's finish this warm up up. Look at you two weights, I'm gonna use two because it's a two weights together, take your legs wide, toes and then come on up. This is a sumo squat. So with the weight that challenges your body. do one. You can even do body weight if you're just starting out. Don't put pressure on So if there's no effort in 50 seconds, then you those knees out, send your hips down and back, Good job. We're gonna alternate some lower body with upper body exercises for a very Good, relax. Place your Wall push up, hands on the wall. You're gonna do is press off the wall and jump. Down, press. keep going with whatever wall you're at, and I'll pushing off. Now if the wall is too much to press can also take this to the mat, on the floor, if Press off the wall, so we're doing a research is showing that in order to Load and explode. Load, explode. Good job. Few seconds left. And time, find your weights. We are working on go against your thighs, roll your shoulders like we're closing a car door with our hips, and then when you lift, you'll Keep your collarbones wide, and don't want to let those weights float far away. Kind of think about keeping And notice that nice stretch Isn't that fabulous? I know. We like it a lot. When you stand up, think about The hip hinge has helped my body the most. I love this movement. Yeah, baby, let's do some bicep curls. Switch because the upper body's probably Palms face in, you're going to and then slowly lower down. Try to have So you don't want them way out here see you swinging those weights. Hey, no. It's And again, if you feel like you could do of sweat working on your body, it's too light, Yeah. Just because if you get a diagnosis that don't be scared of moving your body, It is so beneficial. So keep your mindset in a positive place. to take those legs nice and wide into our lateral one weight goes inside and outside. So come up through the middle, go to the other You can again, swap it out for a about doing a video is you have Oh yes, unlike a real class where you might feel You got it. Stretch that Brilliant job. Keep it going. We're almost there. This one's tough. (exhales) Mm-hmm. All right, relax. So one weight, or you can body exercise with a row. So take it to a lunge. single arm, and lower. Now you are by a wall. hold onto that wall. But I need you to work of your body. So we can't stand up straight I want you to lean forward. Do you Great. We like that. We love it. Feel that work. And breathe. Good job. Big row. Try to get as much range of I could do it right here. Me. Or I can do big row. Let's try the big row together. All right. Wow. Lower body was working, huh? Second side. So standing next to a wall work against gravity. Let that arm hang. So I want to encourage you, load your bones. Believe in your body's ability And remember, if you don't move it, If you're following my Patreon we have themes every month. And the So now you have a curated schedule of to keeping your bones strong and healthy. How's that row? Go, go, you got it. Pull and release. Breathe. Good job. This one's hard. Wow. My legs. Okay, one weight or of the weight, bring it over your head, curl your backs of your head and then extend. So keep of the arm here every time you bring the weight Now, when I work with clients, I see tight. And so they're like way out here. Work with where you are. But remember, we got to work with load through Keep going, you're doing great. Breathing. I know triceps are those sneaky Abs in nice and tight, chin parallel to floor. Let's do our shoulders. Two weights. palms facing. You're gonna give me one arm at Good job. Big press. (upbeat music) That's it. Press it up, bring it down. Only one more strength movement you're in your cool down. Look at that. So many people don't exercise consistently You don't need a lot of time to see Remember that. So keep showing up. Do And don't forget to comment below and let me know where you're exercising with me Good, big press. No weights for this last strength exercise. We're gonna do some toe walks and some heel Ready? And you're just gonna walk like you're if you're a man, imagine you're a fancy pair of Don't roll out into the pinky or Check in with those toes. Okay, so you did come onto your heels. This one's hard. And called heel walks. So lower leg strength, helping with balance. I know you feel funny You can add little arms to it. Look at you go. Home stretch, whoa, those shins be burning. All right, we made it to our cool down. you can stand by the wall for balance if zip up through the front of the leg and if you don't wanna hang onto the And if you did this today without a wall, Good. Don't just let this be a one-time video. Let yourself be consistent so you can I'm here for you. I wanna see how movement can Good job, big stretch. Oh, this is so nice, isn't it? I know. You get to do the second side. Okay, so find that calf stretch, take the arm behind you and we're just going Big stretch. Isn't that nice? Oh yes, length. I hope you check out my Strong Bones, Stronger You With osteoporosis and improving your bone You're not alone and you can keep moving in a positive direction. Keep that reach going. Oh, it's so great. Oh, I love it. Yes, big stretch. Okay, we've got two more cool a boomerang. You see this in a lot hip over to one side and boomerang Every time I do this with a client, I'm more often? I love it. This might be So when you practice, make sure you have a lot of weights available so to see what gives you the appropriate challenge. You can always take me to the gym too if you Virtual YouTube goes everywhere. Big stretch. Oh, get that nice length there. Our last movement is just for our posture, okay? the availability to do the wall, do it, because do elbows down and then reach up. Now, if you're the chest and lift. We wanna prevent, as we Okay, so we don't want this. You're too awesome for that. Stand up nice and tall Good. Gosh, I really hope you liked this 20-minute I love our sessions. And I hope you're joining me on because it really does bring a big benefit Good, big reach. (bell dings) And relax. All right, let's roll those shoulders down and back. Grateful for the gift of moving my to be healthy. You, my friend, did an for osteoporosis. If you liked it, please hit and join me on Patreon at patreon.com more exclusive content and community. And Stronger You guidebook for a comprehensive linked in the description box below. Till next and I'll see you again soon. Warm hands With you're saying Have been going good then you turn me down Get my heart was up