- Cabbage : 3,980 won > 1,990 won. - Smoked chicken : 9,980 won > 4,990 won. - 10 Black tiger : 9,980 won. - Pork belly : 2,980 won > 1,788 won (100g). - Beef brisket 600g : 11,880 won. - Fish cake : 6,980 won. - Red chili paste 1.9kg : 9,980 won. - Cream yogurt 85g*12 : 7,980 won. Smoked chicken. Pork belly. Cooking oil. Potato. Carrot. Cabbage. Onion. Garlic. Green onion. Water. Dark soy sauce. Red chili powder. Red chili paste. Pepper. Oligosaccharides. Sugar. Pork belly. Shrimp. Beef brisket. Fish cake. Smoked chicken. Hello Heungsam's families from YouTube! Welcome to this channel. I'm Heungsam. I'm Heungsam's Mom. I'm Heungsam's Dad. I'm Heungsam's girlfriend. Today, we received an ad from Emart. It's been 31 years since Emart was founded. To celebrate Emart's 31st anniversary, they're holding a Star Sale event. It'll last from November 29th to December 5th. This event is available on five of Emart's platforms including Emart Traders. I'll leave the details in the description, and my pinned comment. - Anyways, everything's gotten so cheap. Did we get the things that were on discount, then? This is one of the things that are on discount. - So many items are on discount. They offer so many items in this event. Please check out Emart during this event. We've got to buy groceries from Emart today. How long will this event last again? From November 29th to December 5th. Make sure to check out Emart. Anyways, we were making braised spicy chicken with pork belly at first, but it's gotten all mixed up since we added all kinds of ingredients. We are going to enjoy today's menu. - These ingredients are really fine. We always buy lots of groceries from Emart. The ingredients from Emart are always fine. - This shrimp. The shrimp is really plump. The shrimps are big. - Is it big? How is a piece of fishcake this big? Come to think of it, this has every ingredient from land, sea, and air. - It contains all of those. This has ingredients from land, sea, and air. What? Did that sound ridiculous? Well, nobody was reacting. It'll be nice to have a drink with this. Here, I know you like fishcake. I think I'm eating too many fishcakes. - You can eat it. - They even did this for the fishcake. - They skewered it. - Here, take this. - Have some yogurt for dessert. Cream yogurt. This is gonna be good. It'll definitely taste good. This event is held exclusively to celebrate Emart's 31st anniversary. 31 years? It's younger than me. So, from November 29th to December 5th, this event will be held on five of Emart's channels: Emart, Emart Traders, Emart Everyday, NoBrand, and Emart 24. So many items are included in the event, so it'll be nice to buy groceries at Emart for a cheap price during this event. - I should eat mine, too. How was the food? - Oh, it was delicious. This yogurt makes the perfect dessert after eating this. We added many kinds of ingredients, and the pork belly here was tender and delicious. Yes, Emart sells really delicious meat like pork belly. Also, the smoked meat here was also delicious. How was it for you, babe? It was fun to pick what to eat next. - This event will last from November 29th to December 5th. You can buy things for a cheap price during this event, so everyone's got to - check out Emart this time, right? I always feel good when I shoot a mukbang video after buying groceries at Emart. - First off, the quality of the ingredients is nice, - they offer a huge variety of food. Yeah, there are so many kinds. - The ingredients are high-quality. It was already cheap before, but I feel even better today since - I got to buy them at a cheaper price today. I can't be the only one feeling good, no? I hope you'll also check out Emart during the event to feel so good like me right now. We enjoyed heartily today's menu. The video finished here~ Thank you for watching.