You can go into any single gym and buy steroids within five If you train properly, diet you're going to feel indestructible. Who doesn't want to feel like that? They're very powerful hormones. But with any drugs, But when there's a drug it's a hard argument to say, Every time you take this shit, You know, it's a lottery. Fucking hell. An estimated half a million the UK are addicted to steroids. In fact, the Class C drug is after cannabis. -Mate, so when you train, the pump is unreal. But steroids come with some pretty including liver and kidney failure. We've got a lot of medication and the heart attacks. As well as mood swings which results in men needing I want to take a look inside from the dealers selling it to Why is a generation of young I'm just outside Cardiff in and we're about to see Tom Powell. If it sounds familiar, it's because he was in season He's been openly taking steroids Do you still think there's like and that whole stigma of your balls That's not a stigma. Yeah, my balls are tiny. Well, my balls are pretty small. He uses his platform to teach young Tom, take me back. What was your Back in school, So for years, for years, I was. Until I realized girls don't like When did you start taking steroids? Five months after Love Island. Was being on camera, did that Yeah. I felt pressure to It wasn't the reason why It was a contributing factor. Obviously, I wanted to look good because you're The main reason is because I wanted to become I met the guys that I wanted and I asked them straight away. I was like, 'Boys, talk to me about And they said, 'Yeah, you can't get anywhere You can go into any single gym and buy steroids within five That's nuts, man. They're very, very available. So what's the biggest 120 kilos lean. Five, six years ago, I wanted to be these topless I wanted to be that. And now I realize that that was And that's not what the fitness I take TRT now, which is called It's a very low level It's not for muscle gains, it's I've actually got a jab now Yeah, of course. Yeah. Long term steroid use impairs your resulting in symptoms like fatigue, Tom has to take TRT, a prescribed light steroid, Where would you inject it? Today is my bum. I'm here for the ride. Let's go. There's a certain V in your ass So I'm going to be going Wipe the area first. I never thought I'd be into someone's bum cheeks today, Cap off, push all the air bubbles And that's ready to go. There we have it. And then I'll go wipe. Wipe all around the area. And that is all done. And that didn't hurt? At all. When you first started taking it, This is when I was taking tren so I had a lot. My mood swings were which is horrible dreams -Couldn't keep a hard on. I looked incredible. I looked lean. I was full. I was, you know, it was You did something mad recently, like you were having a surgery and then you live streamed it. Yeah. I had gyno surgery. Gyno is a buildup of estrogen I'm estrogen sensitive. So when I was taking steroids, my estrogen built up and stuck and it was causing pain. -Ugly pec. Why did you live stream it, bro? To raise awareness. The more people that sees, the more people are going to see So I thought, yeah, why not go live? I'm trying to enlighten people bodybuilding and they get they lose their sex drive. And we as a community epitomize And actually these guys Women lose their periods for a couple of weeks just by doing a And people don't realize this. Let's say I'm a young person trying and I want to be the Would you advise me Find your own path. I wanted to be in the industry I listened to what anyone else did. Thomas suffered numerous side effects from his years of steroid use, including having to do breast as a result of gynecomastia. The surgeon who performed the self-proclaimed King warns that tens of thousands of of needing the surgery How many gynecomastia surgeries due to steroids? I do about 2 to 3 a day. So if we say half of them are we're talking about 15 in 5 days. So about 7 or 8 probably from Wow. But I'm the king of gyno. I mean. Dr. John is letting us film his His patient, Grant, is already Hey, what's up, bro? -You alright? -how are you feeling? Why are you getting this done? Everyone I speak to, But for me, it's a self I've always had like, a little So as soon as I hit like 16, you get it when like some people And then I started using steroids and just got worse and worse But as you're a big lump, you don't really think about it. But if you go into places and stuff like that and you're and you're surrounded by other haven't got it, people notice it. Talk us through your steroid use. When was the first time -Eighteen. Yeah. So I've been on and I started going to the gym, seeing And I was like, 'Do you know what? Took some tablets and started and kind of never looked back. Is it more for fitness or is I am so unfit. Honestly. At my biggest I was about 17.5 stone. I couldn't walk up stairs. Generally, my breathing was terrible. I was just carrying so much excess It's never about the fitness. It's about the recovery so I And when all your mates are you look like the biggest And it's nice. It's a nice feeling. -Are you still on steroids right now? This hasn't stopped you? No. I think the problem is, and I wish I'd never started, Dr. Jones is ready for you now. -Good luck my guy. -You got this, man. Grant, how do you feel? Nervous, currently. Is it ticklish right now? No, it's alright at the moment. This is the stuff that's hanging out and here is the actual glands After applying a local anesthetic, the surgeons have filled to help with the procedure. What are the dangers I would think that the most common So the body wants to heal it and wants to push blood Other risks; nipple inversion. But there's different ways to Alright, just going to set melt all the fat and break apart Next, they're going to like they would with liposuction. So what this does and the pseudogland inside and partially fibrous tissue. So we break apart the fatty parts. You'd be surprised at how much fat To be fair, I did offer somebody a grand if they drink some of that. Can we up it to five grand? That's so fucking painful. Fuck. Fucking hell. It's a girl! Yay! Oh wow! That is fucking horrible. I never knew that this is Urgh, that is such a weird thing. Urgh. That's making me feel ill. I genuinely can't believe those massive glands Honestly, if that doesn't I genuinely don't know what will. Since steroids are illegal where do they come from? I'm in an undisclosed location an international steroid dealer who Yo, What's going on right now? So basically, add a solution We've got the raw powder here. Put a couple of chemicals in there and I'm just finishing it off with This is the carrier. But how do you get Well, I mean, if you're over the Internet or even from you don't know what the Especially when you're injecting Has it got hairs in it? Has it got bits of fucking shit that's going to give What's the wildest things being put inside steroids? Well, I've seen some very You know, smoking cigarettes over it and the ashes dropping in. It's not getting filtered. I've seen people have injections they have to have their whole It's fucking risky. It's risky. There's not a lot of people So the guy in the gym 'Yeah. Yeah. This is the best gear.' How the fuck do they know? Every time you take this shit, you're risking your fucking life. You know, it's a lottery. Unless you're making this yourself or getting it from you don't know what the fuck You're the most honest drug dealer Not everybody who makes and sells and rinse them. Do you know what I mean? You know, it's, it's a gray area, You know what I mean? Ethical drug dealer. Yeah. What would you say is like, It breaks my heart to say it, Sixteen? Just as they sort of coming you know, young guys wanting to If you train properly, you're going to feel indestructible. Who doesn't want to feel like that? All of these ingredients are, like, Yeah, easily. The chemicals are Sourcing the raws, you have get them shipped in. And that's the But that's all they'll do. The risk reward, if you're comparing It's insane, the returns It wouldn't be uncommon for us on On a good month. Make 100 grand. On a bad month, fifty grand? So easy. This filter paper on here, If this is not filtered, you are for Okay? You're going to have or in your shoulder or whatever So this step is very important. You've got here, finished product, just do it by eye. So now you've got your bottle that goes on. There you go. Okay. This is nuts. And if you put a light through it, There should be no particles in Actually, if you do buy gear, If there's shit floating in the Cap comes off. There you go. Made in what, 30 minutes? No time at all. That's crazy. Powerful shit. So what would you say to any young person who's thinking about taking steroids? Don't fucking take it. No fucking teenage boy anywhere in needs to be takin anabolic steroids. Unless they've got that needs it, you know? But I mean, kids taking Come on, man, You're going You're going to fuck yourself up and you're not going to come back You can't fucking shag your bird. You know what I mean? You've got no interest in life, It's like, do you really want it? John is making 50 to 100,000 from making steroids in his kitchen. Who's to say other dealers aren't You don't know what just to try and increase So a lot of steroids that might be unsafe and it definitely infections, septicemia and you might even It worries me that even the dealer is warning people But for some athletes competing they would argue that taking Okay, every single athlete today, it will be their first time ever So we do need to give them We have our first athletes ready, With the bodybuilding community, do you think any of them would have in their preparation? At this particular show, Oh, ok. So is it like an open Yeah, so there's two different So Fit X is a federation that There are certain ones who do. So obviously no one there will be. But at Fit X, I imagine it's most of, Ok. So as you said, -probably no stigma towards that. Have you ever tried steroids? Yeah, I think it was 22 when I What's your stance on some of your Do you advise it or not? It's a good question. And I feel like it's something that someone needs to come to I'm going to then try best advise A lot of men definitely and they take the steroids but it ends up having Have you or anybody else, are they taking steroids for -I do take steroids. I do take steroids, yeah. Yeah, but it's all controlled. I have my bloods taken, before and after a course to minimize any risks they may pose. Would I promote it and advise But for me, I'm competing against -Yeah. -Even the playing field for you. If competitions don't test for those competing often think that they won't stand a chance since every single user says that they wouldn't advise surely they should be banned from David Crossland, a former steroid has turned his efforts So Dave, what do you do nowadays? Probably the easiest way is a blood testing company for people It's just about minimizing the harms that people expose them to. Be that steroids, Let's get into your story You're a pretty big lad, like the biggest guy How did you first get I started steroids at 19. I finished steroids at 24, at which point I was very large, not in bad condition, and had the potential to turn pro And then I tore my left pec That sort of ended that. And then I spiralled into depression. The renal specialist basically said of managing my physique, so I'm stage four kidney failure. And that will never get better. Is that a lot of medication now? No, not really. Not I've got a lot of medication and the heart attacks, Heart attacks. Plural. Heart Attacks. Well I had a heart attack, an official myocardial infarction Do you know anybody who's died It's difficult to say that someone's Are there people that have pass that steroids may have played Yes, without doubt. You can't O.D. on steroids, You can't go and take too -Yeah. It's a constant abuse situation. So what advice would you give to an 18 year old possibly I have people come to me that I'm telling them or they're now infertile. And they're shocked You know, there is risk Learn the risks you're taking and then decide if those risks Steroid use is rife in the UK and it's extremely easy to trapping men in a cycle that From what I've learned, a lot of men turn to steroids when With social media platforms often feeding us unrealistic body images. Ironically, the side effects can self-conscious and in There needs to be more on the impact steroids can because if people are aware I doubt so many would take them. Good work out, bro. I'm tired, man.