- We're going to talk about how This is a huge challenge for many people, and I've gotten a lot of over the years. In the first part of the video, I'll compare and contrast with some of the other types. And in the second part I'll give you four tips to Be sure to download my free PDF that'll give you the five that all professionals should have. I'll put a link to that in the So let's compare assertive communication to other types to get a better handle on how this fits in. First many people communicate passively. That's the first type we'll talk about. This means they essentially They have something that's on their mind, but they don't say it. And the trouble with this is that other people cannot read our minds. And that means there's that we're going to get our needs met. If we don't talk clearly about what they are in the first place. A passive communicator is other people's positions. They'll say to themselves well I'll just let the But over time it becomes a pattern. Driving forces behind could be fear, a desire to avoid conflict, or just a lack of confidence to speak up. Next aggressive People who communicate aggressively, do a lot of blaming, They'll say things like or you're an awful person. They're really pushy with their views. And they want to be in I used to work with a really These lots of you language, and they escalated conversations. You, you, you. This person would cut used a frustrated or angry tone. They waved their arms all over the place as they talked. They had a collection of tactics They used to dominate other people. That brings us to assertive communication, which is direct and respectful. A driving force behind this is That's the theme. The assertive communicator is going to say what's on their mind really clearly, but they also respect Assertive communication means but you're not attempting to Instead of you language like assertive communicators, use So instead of saying you they say I'm concerned about the delay. In other words, they We'll talk more about how in a couple of moments. The last type is passive aggressive, which means the communicator about their feelings. They let their anger and just below the boiling point. And then they let it out in strange ways, or maybe act like the as they express themselves. I used to work with a passive This person didn't speak up much, but when they did, there was usually about the way they talked. They used sarcastic comments. They grumbled to themselves in meetings. But if you ask them directly, did you want to add your point of view? They'd say no, that's fine, I'm good. But you could tell from their Passive aggressive communicators don't come right out with They let it leak out. I've also noticed they sometimes gossip or talk behind your back, or try to communicate instead of speaking to you directly. The question is why then the best approach for you? Well, it's the best approach because in contrast, if you are aggressive people will be distracted and they won't be able to You're giving them two jobs essentially. You're asking them to hear you, but you're making it because you're also giving them an unhelpful communication Assertive communication and respectfully, but And that means your message is more likely to hit its mark. Assertive communicators are more likely in the end to be heard. So question for you. Do any of these four Feel free to post a Now let's get to some tips on how to communicate more a assertively. I recommend that you prepare in advance and practice it a few times to make sure you're ready. So let's look at these four tips to communicate more assertively. First make sure that and under control before If you still have any beneath the surface, they will leak through if you rush it. One way to make sure you're calm enough is to sleep on it and I often have a good an important in conversation. And it really does help me stay composed. I have never regretted waiting Another tip to make sure that is to draft out your message a few times. I do this, I draft it out. I read it out loud in privately, and then I put it aside for a while. I get some distance and then to take like any remaining And then I practice it again. I sometimes revise a to take all of the sting out of it until I feel like I'm ready in a composed way that's genuine. These revisions help me all the way to its essence as well. So it's really clear, concise, and doesn't have anything left that might escalate my own emotions as I express myself. I don't always take my into a conversation, but I at least have And you'll know you're ready when your composure feels sincere. Second, say what needs to be said as directly and respectfully as possible. One key tip for saying this respectfully is to focus on your part your message. Don't attempt to control the outcome or control what the other person does as a result of what you've said. Don't play that conversational chess game in your head before the interaction. There's a funny scene Andy comes back to work from because he had punched a hole in the wall, and Jim immediately tries But Andy stays calm by repeating what they taught him in the workshop. He says out loud, I can't I can only control what I do. And there's wisdom in this. Control has a lot to do with Aggressive communication Passive aggressive communication is at least in part about So if you can let go of a it's very liberating. And you can just say what And once you've expressed and respectfully, you've You also then respect to have their own point of view, and give them space to talk about it. Third use I language. Let's expand on what we I language literally means focusing on your thoughts and feelings by phrasing your point instead of you. I language doesn't solve every problem, but it's one really helpful tool to start conversations on the right foot. Instead of saying you're you would say I'm feeling overwhelmed by the amount of work I have. Instead of you're ignoring my concerns, say I'm not feeling my I language allows the other without feeling like they It positions the other person as a potentially helpful person who can then take a step towards you rather than positioning When I teach I language, lots of people struggle with this. They start with &quot;I,&quot; but then They'll say things like I or I'm concerned that YOU are going to make us miss our deadline. They still want to sneak a If this sounds like how I recommend revising the message a little more with I language and make sure that you're not trying to sneak any You language in there at all. Fourth, be a good listener. Once you've said your let them tell their story. This means all the basic with good listening like maintaining eye And when you talk. Maintain supportive, as you listen. It means asking relevant questions with a genuine motivation to understand where they're coming from. Good listening provides to let them say what's on their mind. Good listening demonstrates that theme of mutual respect that Another benefit is they are and attempt to listen well to you. Listening well is not just professional. It's also classy. It communicates honor and respect. And remember you can't control them or make them listen to you, but you can set the right tone by being a good listener Listening patiently is also important. Sometimes you'll hear something and you'll be tempted with your reaction. It's a much better idea ask a few questions to make the other person before you react. That'll also give you a moment to make sure that your but not aggressive. Listening for a little while longer gives you time to digest their point, and collect your own thoughts so that you can then express As mentioned, feel free where I show you the five that all professionals should have. Links to that are in the Question for you, how would you rate your own Are you assertive, or do you lean maybe or maybe passive aggressive? I'd love to hear your own Until next time, thanks, God bless, and I will see you soon.