(peaceful music) - What's up everybody? It's Enes here. Welcome to another episode. This week we're in Lake Tahoe, California and about to tour this right behind me. You guys may not be able to see the home behind all those trees, but I promise you, this is one of the coolest homes we've ever toured on this channel. Now specs on the house. We got seven bedrooms, seven 12,255 square feet of interior space, built on a flat 3.3 acre lot. And this property is for $44 million. As always, we will leave more information about the property down under description. And before we start our tour, I want to thank the from Tahoe Luxury Properties for allowing us to tour Now let's begin (upbeat music) From the street level we have the gates opening up to the private driveway. Bit of a parking area on this side. And driving continues where we have the with plenty of parking up We have slate floors and looks beautiful, house We've got three types of trees here, fir tree, pine and cedar and the front lawn of this home. Another fun detail entire driveway, the whole house and the back patios has in-floor hydronic heating which means during the winter time you don't have to shovel any snow. The driveway will melt it for you. As we come up here this is We have four car garage right here, again plenty of parking spaces. And now let's talk about of this home. We have a beautiful I love the contrast with and the stone clad on the exterior. We have siding details with exposed roof rafters and beams. I love the wood shingles on the roof not to mention each one are nicely clad on top As we come up here, this is where we have the main entry, landscape and we have a lot of At night this property is beautifully lit and make sure to stick around where we show you guys how Now we have the main entry I love these stone columns into wood columns and all It just looks beautiful. As we go in we have this and check this out. Mikey, let's get a closeup. I love the etched glass with all these carvings. Now let's go inside. All right, everyone here We have a beautiful And on the floors we have this cool mosaic that welcomes you into the property. Now on the left wing we have the master bedroom, And on the right hand side we have the six bedroom suites like the living room and the kitchen. But first we're gonna start right here where we have the formal living room area. Huge room with floor to ceiling windows looking towards the incredible lake. This is where we have the seating area. Same slate tiles continued of this home, stone gas and going this way we opening up to the patio space and this massive window Again focused towards Mikey let's pan up to It's incredible. - [Mikey] Yeah, these have - Yeah, it's got to be over 25 feet. And one of my favorite is how those roof trusses join together right in the center and Mikey let's get a closeup So those are, glulams, The way they produce them on top of each other, and then they bake 'em and that looks like a regular beam but it's actually stronger, - [Mikey] Now you're talking running the length of the room, right? - Exactly. Exactly. And they actually extend So we will see those details Now let's flow this we have the formal dining room area. Beautiful chandelier right in the center. We also have the high with all these exposed beams. Table for eight, windows on this side looking towards the view. I guess this is not a bad place for you to enjoy your meal while looking at these beautiful views. Now we have a staircase right here going up to the second floor of this home. Actually second floor has two sections. This is the first one we're in the video. Now we have these pocket doors which is right here. I love the contrast between the wood tones and the darker cabinet Plenty of storage. Let's start this way. We have the paneled fridge and freezer. Mikey, let's get a closeup. This is pretty cool. We got a little appliance Microwave right above it. And going this way with brass details. And I really like how they with the stone finish, looks We have the natural stone back splash, another oven right here. This cabinetry continues of a bar seating here. And the other side of the kitchen we have more cabinetry, main sink. I mean, look at the So cool. - [Mikey] Yeah. It's - We have the dishwasher right here. More cabinetry. Now let's cover the island. Mikey, you need to come on my side. We have the sink right here. Check this out, we like these. Dishwasher drawer and wrapping around these are also really cool. Under counter top refrigerator drawers. And island has this really Giving it a little bit more Let's get a close up on And we have granite Mikey, we need one more closeup. We got a lot of closeups in this house. Check this out. They custom painted the plug cover and the plug with the same Isn't it cool? - [Mikey] Yeah, I actually didn't even notice that was there. - There you go. That wraps our tour for the kitchen. Now kitchen continues to We have another dining right on top, right in Again from here, you get and it opens up to the family It's a very spacious family room. We have multiple seating areas. Let's start this section first. We have all these windows French doors, opening Again, we'll tour that side of Continuing this way we have four TVs. and in case you don't want to see the TVs, well, there you go. You can hide 'em away nicely. Stone gas fireplace right here. I really like this hearth They basically brought in a natural stone which looks really cool. We have coffered ceilings above us, same slate floors continue as well. We have a sunken bar area right here, dual elevation natural stone countertops. Fun fact. This section right here was in an iconic hotel, down the which is really cool. And let's cover the bar. We got the ice-maker, fridge, dishwasher. Mikey, let's get a close up. We have this really cool copper sink. And even the copper faucet. Check this out, another detail. Even their cabinet handles are copper. - [Mikey] And is this hand beaten? - Hand beaten, exactly. - Overall this living room is very cozy, accesses to your barbecue area. I mean, what else you need? We have the secondary dining area here and we're back at this kind of hallway. This hallway wraps around the kitchen. And at the end of it, and the other door opens with a really cool vanity As we continue to hallway, on this side and this hallway and this door opens up This entire kitchen is built It's commercial grade. We have this storage area right with one of these commercial This is where you have your You have the removable gas stove, commercial vent right above, more storage underneath, your built-ins. Overall kitchen like this really compliments a home this size. If you want to have parties you want to cater food. This is a great place - [Mikey] Yeah. And this house And you could probably like, it just feels like a holiday house, like a Thanksgiving or Christmas house. You could bring four or five families in here easily- - [Mikey] This just adds to your Thanksgiving and Christmas cooking space. - There you go. And Mikey, I know I'm but I want you to wrap around. There's a detail I want to show. I've never seen this before. I think it looks really cool. They put a stainless steel baseboard. - [Mikey] I wonder if that's something that's like common in commercial kitchens? Probably, because you're on the floors and all that. So you want to protect it. Smart. works in a kitchen, let us know. Let us know, let us know So we just came from here. As we continue the hallway we have another exterior access that opens up to the motor court, storage closet. And this door right here opens up to the spacious four car garage that is attached to the home. As we follow the hallway, You have these double doors opening up and right here at this landing, we have two exterior accesses. And the staircase right here which is on the second floor and four spacious guest suites. Now let's go check it out. Here we are at the landing and we go straight into Built-ins on this side. This room is front-facing. And of course we have the nicely wood clad. And going this way we We got a little ice maker. These are always cool And right here we have the dishwasher. Kind of almost everything you need. Farm sink, natural stone countertops with a nice chiseled detail. So four bedrooms on this level. This is the first one, and I love all the millwork and how they have these Super cozy. If I was a kid, I wouldn't And we have a barn door that is opening up to the bathroom. Water closet on the left, Brockway cast iron sink. This might be one of the coolest details in this house with the double faucets. It's like a really timeless design. And we have the chisel natural pendant lights above and they used the floor tiles all the way into the walk-in shower as well with a mosaic design right in the center. Now let's go back to the living room. This is where we have And right here we have the second bedroom that is front facing with high ceilings and a bathroom that has tile floors with marble countertops Now those were the first We have two more to see. Right here we have another one. Again, front-facing with high ceilings. King-size bed is positioned on this side and this one also gets a full bathroom with double vanity set up, and they used the floor tiles all the way into the walk-in shower. Now on the other side you get a washer and dryer, This is the biggest one out of the four. Again, this is where we have the bathroom, double vanity set up, walk-in shower right behind me, wrapping around walk-in closet right here. TV is situated on this side, vaulted ceilings, king-size bed. Bit of a seating area facing and this beautiful view Alright guys, that's it for this section of the second floor. Like I mentioned earlier in the video we have another staircase but that's a totally different space and it's not actually In fact, why don't we go and show you guys the and the movie theater. All right everyone, so we were back at the entry of the home. We have the formal living room and formal dining room right behind me. And this is the staircase that takes us up to the second floor of I love all these railing Looks really cool. And this is how you know when you have a couch at the landing. We have the window right here facing towards the motor court. And as we're coming up we have these wide plank Let's tour the first room right here. I think this kind of gives it a little bit of a clue what we we're about to see. We have the movie theater that they have with a theater sign on top. Let's go check it out. I really like the carpets here. They give that retro vibe We have the electric and on the second row we actually have the Which is really cool. Screen on this side. And we have a little with a fridge and check this out. These might be the fastest recliner chairs I've ever been on. Look at this. No time. Let's go. Let's watch the movie. - [Mikey] Yeah. You know - [Enes] I do. It's Coco. We watched it together, no? - [Mikey] I'm actually It's a classic. - I do. I actually really liked this movie. - [Mikey] It's a modern classic. Yeah. - There you go. Now let's get back to the hallway and we have two very spacious Let's start with this one right here. This is one of the two Carpet floors, exposed beams. We have the king size bed situated here, gas fireplace with a stacked stone veneer. We have the TV mounted Let's focus on this amazing view. Again, we can see the lake from here. Mikey let's show this detail real quick. We have a balcony for this guest You get a little bit of - [Mikey] There's some good - That's for sure. Now flowing this way. This is where we have the Double vanity set up, natural stone floors with mosaic inlay and also in the walk-in shower We have the walk-in closet right here and this is where we Now let's go back to the hallway. And at the end of it, And this is the second guest suite. This bedroom is little bit bigger. We have the same vaulted ceilings here, king size bed situated on this side. Bit of an office set up right here. Again office has the beautiful lake view. A lot of windows bringing Let's go this way. Walk-in closet right here. And this is where we have the bathroom starting with the water closet. Walk-in shower with a really cool pattern. They use the natural stone tiles throughout the entire bathroom. Granite countertops with a for the ornate touch, And we have a jetted Now let's go back to the bedroom because this one also gets a balcony, which is right here. This is where we have the balcony. Nice and private. You can get a closer and they give a lot of shade Now let's go back to the entry and tour the master wing of the house. All right guys, we're back at the entry and I hope everybody's And if you do make sure to give us a like. If you have any questions or input we encourage it as always, Now let's take this hallway in toward this section of the home. And we have these solid wood double doors opening up to the office. I love the wood paneling here. We have the same exposed wood A lot of built-ins, TV situated We have the desk right even on this side and And I mean, just imagine sitting on this desk, right? You're focused on your work. You're being creative. And when you want to take a little break you simply open up these French doors, take a walk into your look at the views and come back here and - [Mikey] Yep, if you're a little sleepy, just go jump in that water. That'll wake you right up. That'll wake you up, now We have a powder room right here. Let's talk about the details. We have a unique vanity set up here and everything is copper. We have copper sink, copper faucet even the wall sconces And I really the wainscoting in this bathroom instead they actually use the also on the walls as well. Really cool. Now this might be the First of all we have this beautiful arched brick into right here. These are all natural stone wall sconces. And Mikey, let's get a Are you seeing all these So cool right? - [Mikey] Yeah, that's really cool. - And we have a copper Let's go in. Now. This is your 2000 bottle wine cellar. We have all these built-ins right here for your wine storage. This section is really cool. We have this brick archway and look at all the hand-painted - The mural, it's so cool. It continues. And you have storage all the way here. Obviously this is a temperature right above us. We have the wood ceilings and the coolest part of this wine cellar which is the coolest room in this house is this vanity set up or the sink set up right They pretty much chiseled and And they used the same How cool is that? - [Mikey] Yeah, never - We've never seen anything like this. Look at these steel legs. So unique. - [Mikey] Really cool. - I think this is for sure one of the coolest wine cellars we have ever seen on this channel. That's for sure. Now this is the hallway we came from. We have the staircase kinda taking us up. Elevation picks up a little bit and another set of French doors opening up to the patio space. And these double doors open This is a 1500 square foot master suite. The scale, the volume here is incredible. We have the bed situated on this side, bit of a desk set up and I love how they kind with this section right here. Going around right in front of the bed I'm pretty sure but I cannot prove it because I don't have the remote. This has gotta be a pop-up TV which is really cool if that's the case. But we have another TV Bit of a seating area up front. We have the stone gas fireplace on this side cozying up the room. This is the second TV I was mentioning. And of course we have kind of like the formal living room area. We almost have the same height here. And these glulams, they look so grand, but yet all these wood baseboards and doors, give so much warmth to this master bedroom. Right behind me we have looking towards the lake. And all these shades and curtains in this room are automatic. So you can control them with a remote. Now let's go through this door and this is where we Before we covered these let's go this way. These two doors open up to They're nice and spacious. And right here, let's talk So we have a lot of unique details here. Natural stone countertops. This is really cool. They have this mosaic reveal upfront and right underneath that these the same natural stone countertop. Really cool backsplash detail. Right above we have the full mirror. Mikey, let's get a Check this out, handles Isn't that cool? - [Mikey] That's really cool. - I agree. Right on the other side we have the makeup section right here. Pretty much the same finishes. On the other side this is where we have the second vanity set up We have the same finishes and right at the end of the bathroom we have this massive soaking Same handle details are also here. And these used the same all around the tub. To cozy up you have a gas And of course it's You can see the lake from here. Master walk-in shower kind of like the same finishes on the floors were used Same backslash detail you get two sets of shower heads. And before we leave this I love how these curved the - [Mikey] Oh I hadn't noticed that. And don't forget those marble handles on the body spray in the shower. - Well, there you go, Mikey, you're catching up on the details. - [Mikey] That's right. - So now let's go this way. We have two water closets on each side and these double doors open up to the gym which is dedicated to the master bedroom. We have all these windows and even the gym gets a Overall, this house, although and we just toured seven it feels very warm and inviting. And I think that has a lot to do with the interior finishes of this home and all these wood cladding Now, this home is very special, partially because of the In fact, why don't we go open up the French doors so we can take a look at the backyard. (upbeat music) All right guys, let's tour the backyard. These are the French doors And right in front of me we have the built-in barbecue area. This is where you have your gas barbecue, outdoor dining area. And like I mentioned earlier even the patio spaces has So during the winter you don't need to worry I really like how they have these trees so close to the home. It really gives it a natural feel. And as we continue to patio we have another outdoor seating area with a fire right in the center. This is where we have the First French door opening up And this is where we have This section, these doors are and the left French store is the one right in front of the massive bedroom entry. Last part of this patio space, hot tub, and Mikey, why don't you So we can take a look at the house. Architecture of this Just like the front of the home we have the same exterior clads like the wood siding and the stone veneer. I love all the exposed roof, I think they just give a lot of character to the exterior architecture of this home. Another detail, I know some minor one, but they used copper for the underneath the roof line. Even for the gutters. That shows their attention to detail. During the day all these windows bring natural light into but at night glows beautifully. And it looks really cool. Now let's take this walkway First of all, we have so And like I mentioned, at we have three types of fir tree, cedar and pine. Right in the center we have a fire pit that is focused towards the view. Overall it's a 3.3 acre lot and you get the full benefit of it. What's nice is that, to turn back for a second. House blends in beautifully You can hardly see the house from here which is really cool. - [Mikey] Yeah, it looks - I agree. Now, another cool detail of this backyard, well you get 175 feet sandy beach. I mean does it get much better than this? First off look how clear the You have this whole beach for yourself. You want to do kayaks, stand up paddle, lounge, can do all you want. We have this beautiful E-Peck And our surroundings are amazing. We are located in West Lake we have Heavenly, which Also this pier comes with two boat slips jet ski lift and a 12,000 pound boat lift. We don't travel outside of LA quite often but I'm glad we made the because it's worth it. This is my first time here in Lake Tahoe. And I must say, this is places we have ever seen. - [Mikey] Yeah, this is really nice. This is also my first time in Lake Tahoe. And I think it's unique in in the summertime, enjoy the it's like a world-class ski destination. There's so many resorts around here, some of the best skiing in the world. And I think we should maybe this winter. - Hopefully. You kinda get best of both And now let's take a moment and (upbeat music) Lake Tahoe is a large alpine lake in the Sierra Nevada Mountains between the states of This was my first time visiting with the beautiful mountain landscape and the crystal clear waters. What makes Tahoe so special is its year round outdoor activities. In the summer time, enjoying the lake and Tahoe transforms into a The lake is surrounded by including Heavenly Mountain and North Star among many others. The listing agent of this was cool enough to take us out in his boat and being able to see the gave us a new appreciation While we were on the water, we got to do some wakeboarding and wake And Bill's wakeboarding skills After spending a few days in Lake Tahoe soaking in the beautiful landscape and enjoying our time on the water, it is clear to me why Lake by those who visit it or live here. All right, guys, I hope everybody enjoyed learning about Lake Tahoe Also it happens to be 7:30 p.m. right now. So let's tour this property at night. What I like about this front lawn area is that it gives a lot As you guys can see, motor and from the motor court We can see all the lights and kind of outlines of this home. We have the front entry right here and let's go inside and see As soon as we walk in, we're in my favorite part of this home, which is the formal living room area. The room really comes to life at night. Again, I love all these with the beams. It just gives so much character. And we have the massive Let's not forget the other We have the master again perfectly positioned On the other side of the home we have the formal dining room, family room complemented with the bar. Again, all opening up to Overall, the warmth of this Now let's go check out the backyard. Of course at night, we cannot but we can feel the peace and tranquility that lake provides to this backyard. And like the front yard we have all this outdoor lighting illuminating the backyard space. Right in the center we And from here again looks beautiful. We have the lights glowing and we have a cozy Overall I really enjoyed It just has a lot of warmth to it. Although it's over 12,000 square feet it just doesn't feel that way. And I think that has to do with the design elements of not to mention the and outdoor spaces completes this home and makes it one of a kind. And that's pretty much it for this video. I hope everybody enjoyed it. If you did make sure to give us a like. If you have any questions or input as always leave us a comment down below. And if you haven't already to our channel, even hit so you can watch incredible home tours like this every single week. Lastly, before we end this video I want to thank the from Tahoe Luxury to tour his amazing listing Thank you guys for watching and we'll see you guys in LA next week. (upbeat music)