[rifle shot] [woman squeals] [man screams] Nicholas Irving: Not happening. To the left? Good to go? My name's Nicholas Irving. I'm a former 3rd Ranger Battalion special operations sniper and currently a New York I spent six years in special operations, and I'm known as The Reaper for 33 kills in about a three-month time span in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. Today we're gonna be looking at a few sniper scenes in movies. No one ever really does that. [rifle shot] [window shatters] Ah. No. His use of the equipment He has his, you know, his pad to lay on, he has his range finder, he can measure the wind, barometric pressure, the altitude, density altitude, his DOPE book. The word DOPE is an acronym for snipers, and it actually stands for So he can go back and that he's engaged before that and have, like, some good reference point. He applied all of his DOPE in I rarely see that in he applies the elevation and the windage. The impossible portion was the actual shot itself. The train is moving way too fast. You have to, you know, So you're aiming up, and almost down at that distance. And shooting through glass, panes of glass, angled glass and different types of glass may deflect and alter the bullet's flight. You'd have to be one really, really, or, after that, get up But now that I see it, I almost wanna simulate it, but it's kind of, you know, it'd be almost impossible to simulate. I can't find a target moving Yeah, so this is a very basic bolt-action rifle. Remington. It shoots a 6.5 [millimeter] Very, very fast rounds. Small caliber, but I use it essentially because of the speed of it. I use it to defeat the wind. If there's a lot of wind or shifty winds or anything like that, it's a good bullet because how fast it's moving. He had a suppressant on his. I don't have one. But for, you know, overseas if I had to make a one shot, one kill, I would probably take something along the lines of a bolt-action rifle. Then you have your bipod legs, and that's just for, Have a scope, and of course you have There's not much to a sniper rifle. His eye position, his cheek weld, where you put your cheek on the rifle itself, where it rests, his was pretty much perfect on his. You'll see in movies sometimes the guy will have his eye pressed all the way up on the scope, and, you know, unless and a nice, you know, bloody eyebrow, you wouldn't do that. I keep both eyes open. That way, I can use my peripheral vision to, you know, keep my Good body position behind the gun. You want your body to be, you know, almost perfectly aligned with the gun. That way when the recoil comes back, you know, you're not bouncing off target, you can get a good follow-up shot. Your skeletal structure is gonna support all that recoil. If you cant it off to the side, that gun is gonna hop. So being perfectly behind the gun as much as you possibly can be. That was a solid eight. Maybe even a nine. It was the shot itself that was a one. [crickets chirping] Sgt. Maj.: Stop. Touch Sniper at your feet. Nicholas: It's exactly like sniper school. For one, that sniper scope is not, that reticle inside the scope is nothing like what you Yeah, you usually have these They're like little circles, on each the horizontal inside the scope, and they're So, let's say, for example, if I had a target that was 40 inches tall, and I wanted to find out but what I would do is take the 40 inches and multiply it by a constant, which is 25.4, and that comes out to 1,016. And I would take the mil dots, and, let's say, if the I would divide 1,016 by 2, and that comes out to 508. So I add 508 yards on the and I would apply that [crickets chirping] [rifle shot] Sgt. Maj.: Damn. Nicholas: Going to that trigger squeeze, that was not really good. You wanna use the pad of your finger. He kind of curled the It's a precision weapon. You're looking at harmonics so imagine, like, a tuning fork, you want everything to be as smooth and less friction on the sides of that railing inside So having the trigger come straight back is what you really wanna look for, not so much of that curled trigger finger. And it's exactly how they where the, you know, the instructor, he's telling the guys on the outside, &quot;Hey, come in, sniper at It's pretty much exactly how it works. Sgt. Maj.: All right, you won this one. Come on out. [grass rustling] Soldier, how did you get that close to me? Nicholas: Sneaking up on because of the stalking portion. It's not really an easy tactic, and not too many guys are For the training portion, I would give this one James: He's moving, he's to the building. Follow him. You got him? Sanborn: Got him. Nicholas: Really nice. [rifle shot] James: He's down. Nicholas: That was really good. I think, well, there's a few things Going to, well, the sniper It wasn't the best sniper It was the second shot, where he moved 20 meters to Really good sniper dialogue, the spotter talking on the After that first shot as a spotter, he should have called out immediately, &quot;Hey, you're, like, 2 mils low.&quot; Inside that reticle mil radian circles in there, and they're used for measurements. At that time when he missed that shot, the spotter, the guy on the scope, should have told the sniper, &quot;Hey, aim up 2 mils and, He should have never let James: Window, at the [shot] Nicholas: This shot, where he's engaging the targets in the building, the two guys in the building, little fly on the eye, that was pretty neat to add in there. It shows that dedication to the, you know, to the spotter You're in this little bubble. Only you exist, nothing else does. And the single shot with the .50 cal is, I've never seen it, never heard of it, but I guess it makes for a good movie. Not too, too bad. On the scale from one to 10, I'd give it, as a sniper team, a four. [rifle shot] [people shouting] That was really, really good. &quot;Lone Survivor&quot; is one of I've seen when it comes to combat. I've used that same rifle My deployed rifle was an SR-25, but I used that one when I That shot right here, it's, I mean, it's real. It's real. It shoots at a 5.56, so it's not a very powerful And being in this environment, I was just getting into first day in the barracks when the guys were coming back in stateside after rescuing Marcus Luttrell. You deploy every six months overseas, and we were averaging about Your average troop won't The unit I was with holds the record for killing and capturing the most high-value enemy targets in the global war on terrorism in Iraq or Afghanistan. Whether you're a Navy SEAL you're a green beret, special forces, Marine Force Reconnaissance, you know, Delta Force, whatever you wanna, you know, all special operations, then very small group of guys, they go through a very, and they get the best of the They could be sleeping in your attic, and you wouldn't even know it. That's what special operations is like. That's what I think about. You know, being a ninja. This should be, like, the modern-day standard for wartime movies. This is a 10, in my opinion, in my book. I had a chance to meet Chris Bradley Cooper looks like Chris Kyle. Chris Kyle was a Navy SEAL sniper, and he's accredited with the most kills in the US military as a sniper. Before him was Carlos Hathcock Carlos Hathcock had 93. I remember hearing about Chris Kyle when I was in Afghanistan, and there was a rumor about this Navy SEAL guy who was like, you know, had over 100 kills, and I was like, there's no way, but yeah, yeah, way. [rifle shot] For one shot, one kill, I would say, dude, that's extremely tough. In sniper school, you know, you learn how to shoot one mile, and you do it in training but the odds of a one round first hit, not likely. I do like the fact that to show you how long it you know, one mile. It's not immediate. And, you know, with that distance, you're looking at so many I'm even looking, probably in a mile, I'm starting to calculate for And that's where you take and you're, you know, taking and putting that and That long flight time, the Earth is still spinning, you know, 1,000 miles an hour or whatever, so you have to kind of, They did put a lot of work into it. You know, Chris is a good guy, but for movie aspects, I'd give it a... oh, wow. I'd give that one about a seven. [gunshots] [rifle shot] [gunshots] That was epic. That was a really... I was almost playing as, you know, who would I take out first? And it was in that order. I would take out the Well, going back, that was a, I think that's a It's pretty accurate for open sites. That position, shooting through something like that, is, one, it's extremely scary. You have to understand, you how much you have to aim up so your rifle, so what you're looking at, you're not actually of that brick wall. And in the beginning, he even sets his range, where he licks his finger. He's taking off the mud on that slide. So, there's, like, a little slide. If you ever have a chance to look at the top of an AK-47, he slides that little lever up, and that raises the rear sight, and it adjusts the elevation. It's essentially like a scope, just without the scope. [rifle shots] Dude, the most I've taken A good sniper, a good a good sniper could pull that off. And how he wraps his hand around the sling to make it nice and tight, that is perfect. You never really see that in movies. They teach you that in sniper school. Yeah, that was really Look at that. Wrap, over the top. Nice and tight. Boom. That's perfect. I would say 70% of my shots And at that distance, with that rifle, that's not a hard shot, that's definitely not a hard shot. He's gotta be less than 100 yards away. That's a 10. That's a 10. I cannot argue with this whatsoever. [bullet whooshes] Before I was a sniper, I was a machine gunner with a .50 cal. That round is devastating. Where she uses that little laser finder, probably not gonna happen, ever. That's a very, you know, The sniper in the window should have known where the elevator was at or where she was gonna but.... [bullet whooshing] [man grunts] People don't look like that when they get hit with a .50 cal. It's usually just a puff of moisture and mist. The guys returning fire from the inside essentially just killed or injured a bunch of I do like the use of the sniper, how she's using the bed frame like you see in most movies. And, yeah, she's backed away. So, yeah, I would have As long as that rifle is she should be fine. And she's not shooting through glass. I'd give it... ah. A three. [rifle shot] [woman squeals] [man screams] Not happening. There was a shot like It was a police SWAT sniper. It was 98 yards away, where he shot the pistol but at this distance? That wind? You gotta think, you're Well, a true sniper would never take that, no matter how good you are. If you look at her hair, her hair is not moving that much, so there's obviously not I'd give that a good 3, You wouldn't dare take that shot. I would debate even taking At that distance, through a real scope, you wouldn't be able to see. You'd be able to see By the time you put your crosshairs on whatever you think was the shotgun, the crosshair itself would If you go back and you can not covered in the front portion. You see that black hole there. Any good counter-sniper would have picked out, and then boom, there's Marky Mark would've if I were on that other end. Prior to this going off, him shooting the gun out the guy's hand, I'd give it a five, 5.5. With that, I give it a two. Sarah: Wait, what is it? What? What? Nicholas: The sniper who's on that team, mercenary team, has a large .50 cal. That gun weighs about 38 pounds, and the guy soaking wet and he's moving miles and miles and miles at a high rate of speed with this rifle. I wouldn't do it. What they would do is So one guy would have the upper portion, the other guy would have the It kind of distributes the weight. It's about as tall as I am. You know, I've had to jump out portion of it, and it's an extremely I would give that a two. I'd give that a two. They could be sleeping in your attic and you wouldn't even know it. That's what's special operations is like. That's what I think about. You know, being a ninja. It's like being a ninja.