Last week. I got a YouTube comment. If you were a noob and wanted to keyboard, where would you start? It can be a little overwhelming, mechanical keyboards, a try, you're so magic keyboard or your laptop Yeah. It's actually surprising how much goes I know it's overwhelming. So in this video, I want to give you my your very first mechanical keyboard. So the very first place I would choosing a size and a layout. They make different sized keyboards. Obviously there's the. 100% keyboard, the full-size key on the side, et cetera. If you're used to that and you by all means, go with that first. If not, there's a bunch of This would be a T K L that stands for 10. Less meaning that got rid They just chop that off of the function row and stuff like that. This is what I generally Cause I like my arrow keys a lot. I really like that. Speaking of arrow keys, you could You'll see them laid out as percentages. A lot of the times, those generally still can see it's a much more compact field. Another really popular size you'll even see like 65, 60 8%. You'll see some crazy sizes. It basically just chops off the top And you can actually access these. There's actually some Some people have it where you'll just uh, some arrow keys and stuff like that. It differs from keyboard, but this So that's step number one, Also go to Google and figure out different layouts for like American That's like slightly different. How those work, you just got the Google Choose one. Now the next thing is actually probably Do you actually want to build a custom prebuilt already, literally assembled Now I'm not going to talk about your order of the base and the PCB. That's like the motherboard sort of thing. Switches keycaps stabilize. Lube films. Like there's a million, but could do to customize a keyboard. I don't recommend you start there. I recommend you start with a pre-built three would actually be to buy one you buy a pre-built one doesn't mean. Change out the way it looks and it feels you absolutely can. So make sure you're buying a hot Basically what hot swappable the switches, not the key gaps. What you see are the key caps what's mechanical keyboard, you know, mechanical. There's one that is a switch. You want to buy a keyboard So you can take these things out. They're not permanently attached. You can choose new switches, you can go That sound different and feel different. You don't really know what you like So grab something. I have some switch recommendations Do yourself a favor and get So you could always switch it out. Suited right there. You can always swap these out later. If you want a different And that's actually really important And it goes without saying almost that. Any mechanical keyboard is going to What you see, what you see, you There's a million different Some are really, really expensive, You can pick up for like 50 bucks on neon colors and there's pink and white. I have some Palm jellies over here kinda like marshmallows or So this tip in general is just to grab a lot of time and effort upfront. Cause you don't even know if you're costs a lot more to go custom, get one Modify it to sound different and feel don't have to, it comes pre-built but My next step and shopping for attention to the color of the base. Right. You can see. White. There's also colored things out there. The reason I say pay attention to this out the keycaps that's super easy. You can buy keycaps like we just talked looks okay with the board base color. This is white. I knew I wanted Palm jellies. That's half the reason It's like put these key caps on there. And so I knew I wanted. Version of this keyboard, I also love black keyboards and black pay attention to the board base. So you can swap out the key gaps. Super easy. It's really easy. It takes 10 minutes or maybe point is pay attention to. All right, the next thing on your attention to the switch color. It's not only the way they look. You could see. I have some black switches in I got some glorious Panda switches. The first question you need to be using my mechanical keyboard? If you're at home alone in your get whatever switch you want, because But if you're in an Uh, alongside other people, or you don't want to disturb you. There's a reason that people meme And that is because some of them different types of switches that are that won't offend your coworkers. Okay. That said, let me give you a really dirty This is going to be super Tactile switches and clicky switches. Now, when you go to shop for pre-built, you'll probably see blue They have a nice little click on there. It can annoy your coworkers. That's clicky. Tactile switches. The most common one is so you'll see a It's actually probably a bad example. There is a literal bump in the you'll feel that lets you know, That's the only reason Cause you can kind of feel. A little bump, like halfway down for to be a little bit more clunky, a That's just my opinion. And then there are linear switches, They're smooth all the way back down. And they're generally speaking a little It's not always like that, Uh, gather on Milky yellow switches, video about a Lincoln up here. You can go check that out. Red red equals linear blue switches, in the middle red switches, linear. And there's actually a ton of other colors But they all fall under those three broad If you want to remain more quiet, go with If you're in a gaming and you absolutely fast, and you want to be smooth, you If you're not a gamer, but you do with a tactile switch, like a brown. And if you're just nuts, like me and like Before I actually just give you a There are maybe one or two other One of the ones I'm going to right here, it's not wireless. There's no Bluetooth or a You have to plug it in via USB. And they actually make really fancy, If you want to spend a little bit of are tons of options that can go ported or I generally prefer wireless just And of course another There are some keyboards that I mean, the light that comes out of your when you press the keys, maybe the light And then other keyboards. So most keyboards these days Red green, blue, red, blue, green. I never can remember. Generally speaking, you can probably just You're thinking about getting, and you out the RBG when it's dark, and you could You don't care about it. You can always turn it off. You always have settings to change how the patterns, or to just turn it off. And the last factor is software. A lot of these keyboards companies will Where you can customize which custom key buy-ins or macros. In some cases, if you care little bit of Googling upfront. Most people don't care They just want it to work It's probably not really needed to worry All right. Let's start with some recommendations. The first I want to throw out, uh, dollars range, by the way, anywhere feel like that's a good sweet spot. Hey, less than that. Way too much plastic, which makes a little more hollow or whatever. Uh, and any more than that, you're don't need this video key Cron key. Crohn's, Crohn's the brand name that I love the K2. I have four key crunk They're all well-built they all have They're well-constructed they sound great. They're portable. And they just work. I love it. That also that works really great for me. RBG. Most of them are hot swappable. This one's not, I think you can buy I didn't know any better This is my first keyboard, blue They got them all. They're available on A really great, I love You can't go wrong. You can buy different sizes. You can't go wrong. I love the K2. I also love the case. It's a low profile and I have videos I'll link to those. You can go check them out. Also on Amazon. The section, the one I've been using That's the name of the I have a full review video. Again. I'll do that here. I'll link to it here. There's soundcheck and But I really like it. And I'm actually modded this board yellow switches, Palm jellies. I did a foam mod put foam in here. I really liked this keyboard. It was like 80 or 90 bucks. That sounded good out Dude, don't get me wrong. But. The side comes off. It's actually one of my favorite parts. You can make it where this is open, just throw it on courted, Bluetooth. It comes with a dongle. It works really well for Mac too. There's like one little button to versus the command control situation. RK 84. I. Super cheap. It is mostly like plastic year It sounds great. It works one more board that I've K glorious, modular mechanical keyboard. I think they have two main keyboards. They have a G M K pro, which is it actually has a rotary knob on G M K board. They make them in a 100% They make the TKL, which is what this is. And I believe they also have a, I You can go see on the website. You can actually just choose right there. They come. Pre-built you can choose your switches. And I love these. I'm really happy with the I believe it could be wrong about it. I've always liked the way these They looked super sweet. GMK also two brands I don't have right in And as in the name, like a N N E pro, They're all really affordable. And the community, I think the are very happy with those brands to leave some links in the description. You can. And that's it. That's all I got. I hope you enjoyed this video. Uh, after you grabbed your first one, and keycaps, those are your next two different switches and, uh, grabbed They're all over the internet. Just Google mechanical keyboard, key caps. You'll find it. I hope you enjoyed this video. Drop me a comment. If you have any questions, If you like mechanical keyboards you have a wonderful day. Adios, happy, clicking