Just like food, cocktails should be a bucket-list item when traveling to a new destination. Let's take a look at look like around the world. Puerto Rico's official drink The pina colada can be found or restaurant on the island. It's a sweet cocktail made pineapple juice, and rum, and mixed with ice. It's usually garnished with The creation of the drink since both the Caribe Hilton claim to be the inventors. But regardless, it should not be missed. This British drink is for gin lovers. Pimm's cup, or Pimm's No. 1 cup, is made with gin, lemon and, most importantly, a dark liqueur, Pimm's No. 1. Garnishes include mint, citrus, and even apples. The gin-based liqueur was invented sometime between 1823 the owner of many oyster bars in London. Caipirinha is Brazil's national cocktail. It's a refreshing drink made a distilled spirit from the which dates back to the 1500s, when the Portuguese arrived in Brazil. There are many theories on Some believe a variation of the drink was used to help cure the Spanish flu. Nowadays, caipirinha for the common cold. If you're headed to Havana, you must know that it's the The Cuban staple, like has a blurry origin, but it's pretty simple to make. A traditional mojito has white rum, sugar, lime The mint is muddled with the mixture to create a refreshing flavor, and the drink is served The signature cocktail is often said to be one of author Ernest A proper negroni is stirred, not shaken. The strong Italian cocktail is made with gin, vermouth, and is usually drunk before a meal. Legend says it was created when the Count Camillo Negroni asked his friend, a bartender, to replace soda water with An orange garnish was Have you ever heard of a Singapore sling? The gin-based cocktail was at the Long Bar at The hotel says the drink named Ngiam Tong Boon. Today, the drink is popular It resembles a fruit punch and is made with cherry Benedictine, gin, pineapple This highball cocktail is made That's right. Dark rum for the dark, and ginger beer, which The unproven legend says that who compared the color of The rum used is usually and it's followed by ginger The Goslings family was one of on the island of Bermuda and began their rum business in 1857. This Spanish drink is one for wine lovers. Sangria is a combination of Brandy is sometimes added to the mixture. It's known to be a classic The drink became widespread in Europe and was soon seen in Spanish It became even more popular in the States when it was served during the Today, there are many Pisco is a grape brandy that some historians However, it's a complicated debate, with some arguing that Well, regardless of the exact origin, the cocktail pisco sour is Ingredients include pisco as the base, along with lemon juice, egg It's garnished with Angostura bitters. Calling all Champagne lovers. This French cocktail, known as Kir Royale, is made with Champagne a black-currant liqueur. The original Kir cocktail was created in France's Burgundy region by a hero of the French Resistance, Felix Kir. Legend has it, when the they confiscated all In an attempt to mimic Felix Kir mixed available Aligote, a dry white wine, with and voila: a red cocktail. In a Kir Royale, Champagne You might think the margarita is the must-try drink Mm, but not really. The cocktail of choice They're both tequila-based cocktails, but the paloma is made with and any tequila of your choice. It's garnished with a lime This cocktail is a Nairobi classic. Beloved by Kenyans, the lime juice, and honey. The final touch includes a &quot;dawa stick&quot; to stir the honey at You can feel tropical vibes The painkiller, as it's called, is a favorite on the It was created in the by a bartender named Daphne Henderson. The recipe calls for Pusser's orange juice, cream of coconut, So tell us, which drinks to your bucket list? Let us know in the comments below.