The best TVs for gaming all share something in capabilities. I'm going to tell you exactly what look for--and in some cases, what you don't need I think, more important than just knowing if you're just here for that, I've got you to make this the only gaming TV video that you Welcome back, everyone! I'm Caleb I've been a professional TV reviewer for 14 years. best gaming TVs. For any of you who already please don't be disappointed if your possible the TV you're looking at might See, I'm going to start this video by talking what to look for, how much you do or don't yes, I'll toss out my hand-picked favorites the end because, even if you don't plan hearing about why I think they're the best can Speaking of buying, I have links to all in the description below. If you use which really helps the channel, Over just the past couple of years, their TVs with gaming-friendly features Auto Low Latency Mode (ALLM for short), and of control over how your TV acts and looks while So many TVs now have these options, in fact, among the best gaming TVs anymore. The best now. Even super low input lag is pretty much a mode. And once again, every TV on this list has in fact, that if you need a lower input competitive gamer and should probably be If most mid-range and virtually all then what makes one TV better than it's the picture quality that you get in game and whether the TV suits all of your other needs room that you'll put it in? Does it have the best room? Is it easy to live with day-to-day? Does it But one thing that I think is essential for any Hz native refresh rate. Frankly, I think that is for. Sure, many games never go higher than Hz. And aside from gaming, 120 Hz TVs just Again, many of you casual game players don't but I do think that a 120 Hz native panel in general. And then, yeah, it does pay off to From there, I think VRR, or variable refresh rate, a serious gamer, then you already know that VRR is don't already know. Now, some TVs will flash which can be a sign of high-quality VRR have those badges doesn't mean it can't do VRR. If Yes," then you're getting VRR from your Auto Low Latency Mode, or ALLM, is sometimes it's called Auto Game Mode, and many modern TVs TV sees a game, it can automatically switch low-lag gameplay. It saves you a few button Finally, on the specs talk, I want to discuss HDMI the TV doesn't advertise that it has them, look "4K 144 Hz." If you're shopping online, the spec in on the picture of the input bay on the back Many Samsung and LG TVs have four HDMI 2.1 ports. and that goes for Panasonic as well. Now, I just fine with two HDMI 2.1 ports. But if one of and you plan on using a soundbar or an AV just know that you're going to have to decide or receiver versus connecting two To sum all of that up: lots of TVs have all you really want to ensure is that you're panel, that the TV has enough HDMI 2.1 that the picture quality in game are going to have sufficiently low input And I'm going to start with the best that it's a tie between the Hisense U7N and the best budget-friendly gaming TV, I think I'd call even less expensive and great TV for playing games the U7N here goes up to 144 Hz. And in 4K, it's which can produce astoundingly bright images and that you're going to get stunning HDR and Dolby you'll get spectacular contrast and color. You'll The U7N's picture in game mode is really of my more expensive picks--but it avoids turning important to me. It also supports a great game eARC port is separated from the HDMI 2.1 ports, this is the most accessible high-performance Tied with the Hisense U7N, though, is the TCL only reason that I give preference to the Hisense accurate picture in its game mode without any these TVs are neck and neck for brightness, it's a toss-up. I think y'all are I'm not done with mini-LED TVs, but I Let's start with the LG C4, which I'm calling the LG C4 is the best OLED gaming TV bells and whistles but doesn't want to pay LG C4 distinguishes itself from my next and HDR certification there is, and is just an outstanding TV in general Next up is the Samsung S90D OLED, which, frankly, year. No, it does not support Dolby Vision, but most folks. It does do HDR10 and HDR10+, which makes the S90D stand out is the Samsung Gaming apps. You can play AAA titles with incredible is required, but you don't have to have console gaming controller. It's got tremendous color contrast. It's just an incredibly good TV, Now, most folks don't need to look any Vision is the real differentiator there: if you want the absolute best there is, The most stunning OLED TV for gaming is the panel. The LG G4 comes off as the brightest, are only two reasons I see to get the G4 over it can get insanely bright and is just simply warranty on the LG G4 that covers burn-in. from your gaming on your OLED--and most of the LG G4 is covered for up to 5 years, thanks you're not going to get any burn-in. Which, by the Anyway, I love the LG G4 so much, and, money at a TV that I was going to use exclusively would be remiss if I didn't also mention the breath. It also has that stunning MLA OLED It's just that you only get two HDMI 2.1 ports, well, it runs Fire TV, which is a big For the best bright-room TV for gaming, it's the use--be it for gaming, TV watching, or movie S95D enough. The anti-glare and anti-reflection super bright too. In fact, its color brightness with its four HDMI 2.1 ports, cloud gaming it's hard not to call it the best gaming So, that's my list! I hope you loved it, and TV that is best for you. Just a reminder that prices down below. And, hey, if you found this like, and subscribe if you want to see more? here's two other videos I think you might like.