One of the most versatile pieces of tech webserver that runs on a Raspberry Pi and lets you so you thought. Because the thing is, Octoprint check in on prints remotely: It's turning more and There are plugins now that do everything from your favorite messenger to timelapse tools So today I'm going to walk you through the hardware you need and I'm going to share some I'm going to share this video's sponsor, Elegoo! Neptune 2, which is finally starting to have have just announced the Mars 3 LCD resin print volume, and an included ChiTuBox Pro license. And washing station that fit for the large-format So let's start out with the hardware needed. First using a Pi 4 with 2GB of RAM, and while OctoPrint you should stick to a Pi 3 and up for you can also run OctoPrint on a Windows, Linux or that's not going to reboot in the middle of your But for a Raspberry Pi, you're also the recommendation is to not use a "charger", but power supply. Though from a technical standpoint, they do, and especially after the 4, the Pis on them as well, so they're not that finicky However, in either case it should be one with is not going to work. I've had great experiences basic dual- or triple-output one works perfectly. you can also hotwire that onto a USB cable. Just cleanly before you power off your printer. need a decent one of those, the Pi 4 uses USB-C with gadgets and the likes are still too flimsy I really like the cables from Anker, but if you cable from your laptop, that should work, as well. issues with your power supply, and OctoPrint Lastly, to complete the set of parts for basic works, but getting one that's at least decently I've got a bunch of these Samsung Evo Plus cards but any card that has an "A" rating A1 or A2, will work just fine as well. I mean, get So that's all the hardware that you actually description below, but really, if you're setting too. Now, there are two basic options - camera module. Either one works. The Raspberry need to print some sort of mount or enclosure, "meh" for image quality, they're still good enough they're a bit more convenient to use. the "720p" Logitech C270, but even most image quality and they pretty much all if you want something that's proven, And that's it for hardware! Well, and a card reader for the setup, but we're Now, for the setup, we're actually not going to OctoPi, which is sort of the official Raspberry OctoPrint set up in there, and it's ready to get you use the official OctoPi image. You're going from people that say "hey, we've got everything already installed", but the thing is, if it's you don't know what else is also installed on you know, you're basically inviting the person case, everything is fine, perhaps they run but maybe they've got a full-on backdoor set up your devices, or perhaps they intentionally I trust Gina Haussge, who makes OctoPrint, and by and, again, I would highly recommend sticking the normal way isn't that hard anyway. actually recommend using a pretty new, but and that is through the Raspberry Pi imager Install and run the imager. Under "Choose OS", OctoPi. This will automatically download Then pick your SD card under "Choose Storage", but because they'll be gone in a second. Now, for and this will bring up the imager's enable "Enable SSH", and pick a modestly secure that isn't the default "raspberry" password install from malicious actors on the network. WiFi connection, simply enter your WiFi's name to prevent connectivity issues click "Save" and then "Write". drop it into your Pi and we're ready to power up the Pi and watch the "ACT" LED, that's going OctoPrint is going to be ready for use at find your OctoPrint install, check your router's or the "Network" page in Windows Explorer. instance is running, it's going to show you the say here, just follow the steps, set up your All that's left to do is to power up your printer, some printers have a flaw in their electronics through the USB port, which can cause all sorts WiFi disappearing. I've put the link to the And at this point, you're ready to start printing. But wait, there's more! Once you've gotten a couple of spots where you'd like to tailor the And this is where plugins come in! There's But before we go through some of the plugins going to be super useful. If you use a slicer directly upload your gcode files to an OctoPrint it to your computer and then having to upload it an application key, copy that into your slicer setup - default is the same octopi.local hostname. your slicer that is going to conveniently send even automatically start them once they're Okay, on to plugins. You can install plugins settings again, click "Plugin Manager" and then but the "Details" button is going to take you out way to install a plugin is to come back to and just install them from there. So the ones are TouchUI, which gives you a basic, to quickly check in on your prints from your which works, but you have to zoom around quite a Next up, for printing parts - OctoPrint only a layer view and we can certainly do better that. It's a full-on 3D gcode viewer that syncs it displays extrusion lines isn't volumetrically the print you've loaded up is going to look like. as intended? Well, especially if you have more that's a bit of a messy situation when one bed. If you now stop the print, you can throw the loose extruded material from the failing what the "Exclude Region" plugin allows you to do print instructions for that area where the part you a lot of time and material should you ever Next up, of course, one of the coolest features timelapses of your prints. Instead of your camera OctoLapse plugin can sync that up with the end of effects. OctoPi is already prepared to run Python development package, so you can just click The setup process will still take a second. do is to override your webcam's exposure, white so if you just want those settings the "Camera Settings" plugin lets you do And lastly, what if you want to check in Well, first of all, letting a 3D printer run to intervene physically is always going to be should only do if you really trust your machine. in on your machine from anywhere, then the You can get the full OctoPrint interface wherever doing well, and if you have to, you can stop the getting worse. OctoEverywhere is a free service, is something you might want to look into time-limited use and then paid unlimited plans. is AI-based print failure detection. I did a whole So that should get you pretty A big shoutout to Gina Haussge for making and a shoutout to her Patrons and So if you enjoy OctoPrint, maybe And of course, shoutout to my Patrons and YouTube to make these videos. Next supporter-exclusive That's it for today, thank you all for watching,