(upbeat music) But I don't need you - And that's what we're here to say, is that we are the New - [Reporter] What's the biggest - Well, we're supposed to be in this era of so-called post racial harmony but us blacks are being and we get the same treatment We're not even second-class citizens. We third-class. Stand up black America and that we aren't gonna - [Reporter] Why come - You know what? You had 400 years to but you don't know how to It's time to stand up. It's time to take back. It's time for us to fight back. And we don't take your We're not gonna do it. We want concrete results. No, you, you, you hear United States of America? What are you supposed to is watching and no one is saying anything? We will not be silent. - [Reporter] Okay, you, sir. Anything you wanted to say? - Oh, me, no, I'm good. (tense music) - Eight kilos, 100% pure (blade switching) (sniffing) - $100,000 US dollars. (tense music) - Hold up, we should count it first. - Be my guest. - We're gonna a straight - Count it, count it. - Yeah. We should probably do it fast so we don't make our friends here wait. - 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, - You know what, I'm fast. Let me just do it. I'll take care of that. One, two, three, four, five, One, two, three, four, five, One, two, three, four, five, - Why are you doing piles of nine? - It's faster than tens. - Oh, really? - I do my nines 10 times and then do an extra pile of ten. - Fast, okay, you know what? We should probably both be counting. - Oh, well then let's just get to it then. Double trouble, all right? (both counting indistinctly) - I'm sorry, could you please, could you do something It's a little distracting. - Oh, you know what? - I got it. We could time me, okay? We time me counting out $1,000. We take that time and for that time times 100. - (in foreign language). - No, I got it. This is it right here. I'm gonna do a web search for Then we'll know what it's And then we can arrange our And see, here, hey, here we go. Right here, look. I mean, damn, that looks, that looks just like a lot like our money. I think we got $100,000 here, folks. I think we made it. - That is our money. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Earlier when we were counting, I took a picture of our money so I could upload it on Yahoo Answers. - [Keegan] Oh, damn. I just wanted to see what $100,000 looked like. - (beep). - What was I thinking? I got it, man. - Go, go, go, go. - [Jordan] What the - I was going to try to &quot;Rain Man&quot; it. - Well, that's a plan right there. - That's right, okay, yeah. Here we go, here we go. (money rustling) Yup, yup, I got that, I got that. (softly counting indistinctly) $99,980. (guns firing) (thudding) - (in foreign language). Oh, (beep). - I actually pressed it already. - Huh? - The walk button, I pressed it. - Couldn't hurt to press it again. - But it won't help. I mean, I pressed it already, right? It's already done. You don't think I didn't press it? - No, I wasn't saying that. - Good, 'cause I most Just have to wait for it to change. - So I'm like late for work, - What for? Why would you do something I mean, I just think - I don't know. - You wouldn't suit up and try to kill Bin I have killed the Bin Laden - How long ago did you press it? What do you think, I've I just pressed it right as you walked up. - Are you sure you pressed it? - Am I sure I pressed it? How could I miss it? Rats know how to press buttons. Do you think I'm dumber than a rat? - No, no, nobody's saying - It's going to change. Just, just wait. It's because I pressed it already. Okay, no offense, I'm - What would you do that for? This is precision equipment with engineering degrees. It will work. I pressed it, sir. I pressed the button. - While we've been standing here, the light cycle has gone by twice, okay. I'm not saying you didn't press it. I'm just saying maybe it didn't work. - If it doesn't work for me, why in the world would it work for you? You think that it would change You think the light doesn't Or do you think that this so that it only works that it's been pressed? 'Cause that's lunacy, okay? Do you understand? Do not cut my balls off on this one, okay? Please, do not press the button again. - Okay, fine, we'll just stand here. - Thank you, hey, no. (button beeping) (smashing) I told you you shouldn't Told him not to do it. No, actually I already pressed the button. (majestic theme music) - Rick Nickelsby, reporting A cult known as QET or has apparently taken their Police confirmed that was also on the premises. Excuse me, hi, Rick Hi, are you two from the neighborhood? - Yes. - No. - Yeah. - Okay, were you two members - The cult, what cult? Was this a cult right here? I had no idea this was a cult. - Although I will say the term &quot;cult&quot; is a little judgmental. - I would say the same thing, yeah. - Not knowing the full doctrine. - Well, apparently they believed that there was a spaceship - Okay, well, that still It's possible, right? I mean, who knows what is - Anything could be behind the moon. - Well, it appears they killed themselves in order to board the ship. - Right, and that's where we disagreed with them right there, or would have. We would have disagreed on our departure day. Their departure day, their departure day, which is the that they did this. I mean, that's what you but I ain't in no cult, though. - I mean, what I always wondered is how, or am starting to wonder to our attention, why if there why wouldn't it just - Right, just beam 'em up. Why can't you just beam them up alive? Why you gotta be dead to get beamed up? You know what I'm saying? I've been saying that for 'Cause because you, Rick and that's how I knew because I didn't know anything about 'cause I ain't in no cult. - Okay, well then why - Charismatic leader, Taco Tuesday. I mean, hypothetically, they could have had tacos on Tuesday, which would have been a draw. I mean, that would have been a plus. - Okay, so this is a tragic and for the members of the I'm Rick Nickelsby, reporting to ... (whooshing) - You see? - You see? - Everybody jumped the gun. We're ready. - Best comic book adaptation to film. Hands down, no argument. - See you later, girls. I know I'm in the really like the Christopher I don't, I really just feel - Okay. - Well that's, that's That's why I prefaced it by saying, &quot;I know I'm in the minority.&quot; - Awkward. - You know what, no, no, not really. It's not awkward. At least not until you said &quot;awkward.&quot; Now it's awkward because of what you said. - Anyway. Anyway what? Really, because when you say &quot;anyway,&quot; then you have to follow it up to the conversation we're having. - Yikes. Look at me, look at me, There's no &quot;yikes,&quot; and the is that there's nothing scary It's a very low stakes situation. - All right. Come here, no, don't look at him. Don't look at either of those guys. Look at me, all right? All right, what? 'Cause after you say &quot;all right,&quot; you have to follow that up with something. Don't do it. Don't look at them. Do not look at them. No, no, do not look at them. Do not look at them, don't-- - Tell us how you really feel. - Okay, you know what? I'll tell you how I really feel. Listen, I really feel who has nothing interesting Nope, don't look at them. Come here, turn it right here. Tell me an opinion that Just one opinion that you Just share an opinion, anything. Share an opinion, share an Share an opinion right now, Share an opinion, anything. Just one opinion. That's all I'm asking. Share one opinion right now. (yelling) - I don't have an opinion, that everyone else likes in pop culture. (sobs) Don't look at me. Don't look at me. Don't look at me. (thudding) (sobbing) - Okay. - Hey man, this your first time? - No, man, I've been on this show since day - It's my first time. - Oh, it's your first time on this show? - My first time being extra at all. - [Keegan] Ever? - I'm kind of nervous. - Oh wow, okay, man. Hey, man, it's all right, buddy. You'll be all right, man. It's okay, man. It's not that hard, man. You'll be all right. Me personally, dude, I'm looking - So what's a lunge bump? - That's a like if you, you get featured, if you lunge at somebody and then you get a bump in your pay. And if you really lucky, that's straight bank right there. - All right, extras. - Assistant director, gather around. - Jerry, hey, Jerry, I had a thought man, about the first scene that y'all is-- - Not now, Stan. - Oh, Steve, it's Steve. - Okay, I'm going to need (growling) You think you can handle it? - Him? - It's his first day though. He kinda nervous, man. He kinda nervous. It's his first day. - Okay, so the director's Mack's gonna come by and then you're just going to (growls) - You want me to say, &quot;Grah?&quot; - Oh, this is crazy. - Okay, all right, cool man. Hey, hey, that's cool. You know I got a lot more experience, man. You can just use me. I've been here day one, first season, so. Okay, cool, all right. That's fine. You gonna go with him? All right, good for you, man. Good for you. - Grah, grah? - No, you don't have to say, &quot;Grah.&quot; Do whatever yell you want to do, man. - That's the lunge bump? - That is the lunge bump, man. You got it. You got it on your first day You got it, man. Good for you. (eerie suspenseful music) (fence jingling) (high-pitched mumbling) What the hell was that? Cut. I would be more than I'll be more than happy to step in. - Mack, just remember when you're coming through the factory that, like your mind is still - I mean, y'all got to pick people based on qualifications, man. - Okay, that's a good note, good note. But maybe what I was doing - Agreed, yeah, we were Absolutely, it supersedes it. Yeah, but let's do one Just same level. We're going again and straight away, okay? Right away, reset. - He's not doing a good job at it. You're doing great though, man. Opportunity knocks, you're - [Director] And action. (growling) (eerie suspenseful music) (high-pitched mumbling) - [Jerry] Cut. to step in at any time you want me to. I'd be more than happy to do it. - It's just a certain sense of urgency is all we're looking for. Clock's ticking, you got - Can I tell y'all something? This dude right here is not This dude was literally on our in the air like this, He sounded like Beaker - Thank you, that's great. Just a ticking clock on this because there are survivors - I found the ambivalence in there. - The ambivalence is art. It's gorgeous and we love so if we could just pick that'd be great. Straightaway please, right away. - Jerry, Jerry, Jerry, but Jerry, we're not doing &quot;Night of - [Jerry] We are not. is not a zombie. - You have any notes? - Yeah, don't be a (beep) Beaker. - Quiet, please, action. (eerie suspenseful music) - I'm gonna eat your brains, zombie. - [Jerry] Cut. He actually just said the word &quot;zombie.&quot; Come on, man. You ever hear a zombie say No, you haven't. I don't think so. - You know what, get rid of this guy. - Thank you, that's I'm sorry, dawg, but you're Do your thing. Hey, man, no, he talking about him. - No. 'cause he said &quot;zombie.&quot; - Thank you, Steve. - No, you want me to leave? Hey, man, I've been up for three and a half years and I've been startling When do I get to startle the lead, huh? - One more for safety, straight away. Here we go, still rolling, action. (eerie suspenseful music) - Hey, what do we do if we - We like it? - I love it. Genius, moving on. Saving Earth from space Power Falcons (stomping) (smashing) (whooshing) - Yellow Falcon, what - Destructo is a killing machine. His armor is impervious to our blasters. You got any ideas, Red Falcon? - Sure do, Yellow Falcon. Blue Falcon, you remember I'll take the legs. You take the blasters. - It was Beaver Creek and I took the legs. Make sure you sharp that - Are you talking to me? Because I'm the Green Falcon. No time for that, Black Falcon. Purple Falcon, arm missiles. - Roger that, arming missiles now. - Battle formations, we're going in. - Hey-- - Hold up. - Roger. - Hey, hey, we can talk when we get back to base, Black Falcon. Right now, we've got a mission to do. Fall into falcon formation. (whooshing) - Well, now here's the issue is that you're gonna give me an order. I'm not going to know you're talking to me because I'm not in a black falcon. - Come on, chill it out, Black Falcon. - Yeah, Black Falcon, relax. - First of all, I don't like the way you Second of all, there is no Black Falcon. I'm Green Falcon. - Black Falcon, homie. No one's trying to get - Don't talk to me like that. No, don't say grill like that. I'm the Green Falcon and I-- - Oh, stop being so Black Falcon about it. - What the (beep) do you mean by that? - Black Falcon, brother, I understand what you're going through. - Do you? No, I don't think you do. How would you feel if I - Whoa. how would you feel if I called - That's racist. - Yeah, that's racist. - Oh, that is racist. - That's racist? Oh, see, okay, no, forget it. Black Falcon out, Green Falcon. Green Falcon, dammit. - Hey, why'd that Green Falcon Black Falcon, get on that report back. Black Falcon, Black Falcon, come in. Saving Earth from space Power Falcons - Excuse me, big man, big man, big man. Excuse me, big man. No, but big man. Okay, God bless you. I'll catch you on up flip. - Thank you, big man. Thank you, big man. (laughs) - Hey, brother. - Can I ask you a question - See, that's good 'cause I was - Okay, so here's the deal, man. Crazy thing, my car ran out of That's the way. I was just wondering if I could just get a couple of gallons. - Okay, that's crazy 'cause you know what? My car had also broke I got my daughter here, she's fine. She's sleeping in the car. I got to get back to her real quick. So if you could help me out. - I was going to ask See, let me just give and show you my ID to let you know that I am straight up legit. It's real, I ain't trying to - On the issue of legitimacy, I too have an identification. That's an employee ID - You see right here, I got my Bally's Total Shows you that I stay fit and You'll also notice that these other IDs I have in my hand have which makes you know that it is indeed me. - Okay, I too have multiple IDs, crescendoing in this - Okay, yeah, I see that. - You see that right there? That is, I'm up to my and you can't fake that. - Yeah. So normally I would not ask but our family is in a My wife is languishing in the hospital. She a construction worker and what happened is she by a power line, fried her whole head up, burnt both her eyeballs out. She's getting an eyeball - I also have a spousal injury My wife was in the astronaut program, making her a full-fledged astronaut. And she had gotten moon - It's never good. It's never good. - We don't want that. So maybe we could find an Oh, look, that's one over there. - What's the chances of it? We should probably check that out. Yeah, let's just take a look right there. - [Jordan] Here we are. - Here we are. ATM machines that I did not - All right, two of them no less. - I'll tell you what we You give me the $20, okay? I'll give you the $3 that's on my person. Then I will give you the $17 after. - Then you give me that $17. I'll cut you a check for You give me the change in cash. - Okay, I feel that. - Why am I playing? I'm just going to give you my ATM card so you know I'm legit. - I'm going before you. I'm going to give you my ATM card so we both have something of - All right, and your code is? - It is 1234, and yours, sir? - 1235. (beeping) That, that is a Wells Rewards card. - Okay, that is a credit card in a translucent sleeve (car alarm chirping) (both speaking indistinctly) - Can I ask you a (prison doors slamming) (indistinct yelling) - Hey man, you gotta let me outta here. - Oh, okay. (tense music) (door slamming) You tricked me. - I can honestly say I - You weren't? - All I said was you got There's no trick. - So I do have to let you out of here? - Yes? (keys jingling) (tense music) Bon voyage. Orders to let him go. I don't know why he was in I don't know. (door slamming) Look, you really got me in trouble. - Sorry. think I'm stupid. Well, I'm not stupid. I'm smart, so yeah. - Know how you can prove - Oh yeah, let me guess. You want me to let you outta here again? - Well ... You think you can trick me Well you can't, because this is my choice. Get the heck out of here. - All right. (tense music) (door slamming) I am sorry about that, guys. That was me, guys. My bad, my bad. Real nice, now they said and if I let you outta here again, then I'm going to be severely punished. I don't know. What do you know? - I'm actually surprised they in here with me. - No, prison is for bad guys. You're a bad guy and I'm a good guy. - Yeah, but you could see how from my perspective, I'm a good guy. - Wait, you're a good guy? Oh my gosh. (tense music) - It doesn't seem like you - Oh, okay, I see what you're doing. You're trying to manipulate Well, it's not going to work. (tense music) - It's not even worth Look, they're just gonna get me and bring me back in here Unless ... - No, forget it. I don't want to take - Look, look, hey, no, no, listen. I'm not going to fall for it. Whatever it is, you may - I was just gonna say to help me get past the guards I really, no, I have to tell you. You need to think about Weigh your options and of those options. - Like heck I will. (tense music) Let's go, I'm busting you out of here. - Don't yell, man. You might as well ring the alarm. (alarm ringing) (grunting) - Oh, hi, Tom. Nice to see you, guys. Oh, boy, I did it again, didn't I? (door slamming) I was a prison guard. I wasn't allowed to talk to the prisoners. That was the thing. They said to me, &quot;If you &quot;you're gonna get in trouble.&quot; (thudding) - What are we doing in this neighborhood? - Come on, this place Besides, I mean, people say the neighborhood's turning around. - [] Who the (beep) there? - It's Jordan and Kira. We're here to view the apartment at 3:00. - Oh, (beep), my bad. I had this homeless crackhead trying to set up housing here yesterday. Almost had to beat his ass. But y'all ain't got 'cause anybody try to get up Let me give y'all the tour. All right, so we got They've been here longer (car revving) Oh, (beep), get away from the window. Get away from the window. Hey, hey, you (beep). I see you out there. You get out that car (car screeching) That's what I thought. So roll on, little (beep), roll on. My nephew, Craig. He a good kid. He smoke crack, though. It's a, just in case he come back. I filed the serial number off there, so if you've got to shoot anybody, just make sure to wipe your Well, come on y'all, I Brand new cupboards. I put the contact paper in myself here so y'all don't get no germs. Get down. Ain't no thing. I thought Craig was rolling it back. I ain't get shot by While we down here, check this out. Original hardwood floor from Check out this green, brother. That is craftsmanship. Anyway, come on. (grunting) now, this paint is all new. Oh, (beep), okay, this, this Funny story, we got crackheads and one of 'em living right And one day he was smoking crack. Just went &quot;Loony Tunes&quot; that's a pistol, honey, But don't worry. You ain't never gonna see him again and nobody ever gonna see him again. Plus, I'm gonna put a and turn it into a hat rack. Let's take a look at this bedroom. What the (beep)? - I found this place first. - Found it? Man, I own this place. Can y'all give me a second? (yells) Oh, you gonna bite me, (beep)? I'm gonna cut you with my sword cane. (yells) So that's going to be first one security deposit. I'll get the paperwork started. - Okay, baby, let's hit (panting) - [Jordan] Father, please - Thank you, father, yes. - We beseech you for the disenfranchised, the less fortunate and those that suffer. Show us your will so we can - Yes, father, thank you. - [God] I have come to Listen carefully to my instructions. - Hallelujah. - [God] I want you to and immediately begin service to the poor. (holy music) - I just want to clarify, so everything? - [God] Yes, rid yourself (holy music) - Oh, (beep), this house is haunted. (screaming) - Ghost, move. - Go, go, go, go, go, it's insidious. (screaming) (door slamming) - [God] Oh, I see what they did there. - This place is so nice. - This is supposed to be one of the best French places in town. - I did not realize that - You're sweet, my French is pretty good, so I can order for both - Oh, well, well, well. - Bonjour, welcome to I am your waiter for this evening. My name is (in foreign language), - Bonjour, Jean. - If you have any questions I'm more than happy to assist you with it. - Jean, I got it. (in foreign language). - (in foreign language). Well, our first special tonight It's a (in foreign language) served with a (in foreign language). That is served on a bed and also several (in foreign language) and (in foreign language). - Yum. is the (in foreign language) with just a dash of (in foreign language), and served with melted - Soup. - Our other seafood today, we have a very nice (in foreign language) from the (in foreign language). It is served with the side of - Oh man, it's just I'm - Yes, okay, I'm so glad you said that. I was about to say the same thing. - So you would recommend getting with the, ooh, I'm sorry. Is the (in foreign language) in a heavy (in foreign language) sauce? - Oh no, no, no. It's more like a (in (laughing) - What do you think? I'm going to defer to him on this one because he knows this - (in foreign language)? - What was ...? Yeah, we'll have the- (mumbles) The- We'll try the- (mumbles) The- It's been nice knowing you. Have a lovely dinner. (tense music) (door opening) Look, Rashid, I'm gonna and easy for you. I need names and you're - You have to listen to me. You have to listen to me. This is all a huge mistake. - (beep), Department of Homeland Security has been monitoring your We got you. We know about you and your friends. We know that you're a-- I am a terrierist. We, me and my friends. We breed dogs, specifically terriers. We write terrierist fiction. We spend a good deal of time discussing possible (thudding) - It's a nice try, really is. But it's (beep), Rashid. Come on, is that the best you got that? Now come on, I'm listening. Just tell me, tell me. Tell me about this imminent attack. - What, what? What attack? I don't know what you're talking about. - What am I talking about? I don't know, huh? Huh? I don't know what you're talking about. - [Rashid] I'm telling you. - No, you don't know? - [Rashid] I don't know. I don't know. - June 11th, Rashid. You spoke of an imminent attack. - Oh, yes, that was my friend. Listen, his dog bit him. And I told him if you do not train them, another terrier attack is imminent. (thudding) (coughing) - [Wilson] See, you lied, - I'm not lying to you. - Come on, Rashid. I like you. Let's be friends, huh? Now you still haven't on the search engine of your computer the words &quot;Target Washington&quot; 49 times? - That is because I was and I had to buy a squeezy toy, a birthday card and some deodorant, all at an affordable price. - You can only do that at Target. - Yeah, okay, I see how Give me this. This is not a case of and you know it. We've heard the conversations where you're discussing your - No, no, idols. American idols, I hate them. They performed &quot;Dancing Queen.&quot; It was a desecration to - We got you on tape referring to Jafar as one of the architects of-- - [Rashid] 7/11, it was 7/11. Jafar, he designs convenience stores. - 7/11? Oh, (beep). - Wilson, 65 dogs just - Were they terriers? - How did you know? - (beep). (tense music) - It is so good to see you, Keith. - Yeah, we usually have to - Well, actually I have a little surprise. I got engaged. (squealing) - Son. - Woohoo, yes, wow, Engaged, kind of a big deal. More for me. I guess. That's what that means. - Yes, well, she got a name? - Marriage is a wonderful journey. - 50% end in the divorce. Sorry, bro, them's just the facts. - I will, I will keep - You got a photo? - Oh yeah. There you go. (whistling) (laughing) - Oh, she's beautiful. - Let me get eyes on this. Everybody else already ha ... Great lighting, airbrushed? - She kind of looks like that one model on &quot;The Price Is Right.&quot; - Yes, that's her. - &quot;The Price Is Right?&quot; Clive, that's your show. - Shut up, mom. No, it's not. Oh, yeah, Stephanie, on her showcases. Not the best presenter. - Where's the wedding? - Oh, in Hawaii. - Ooh. - Awesome, woohoo, (in foreign language). She ever been married before? - No. Ex-boyfriend, she got one? - Of course. Right, Dad? - Keith, she sounds wonderful. - [Keith] Thank you, Mon. - Shut up, Mom. Silence from you. You're cut off from talking. - You know what, Clive? I really don't appreciate the way that you're talking to mom. (clapping) Yes, yes, the prodigal son has returned. You know what? You want to go? Let's go, 'cause I've been taking care of mom and dad all over the world and why? So you can come back here and criticize me for how I treat them? - No, I actually came here to ask you if you would do me the (gentle music) (snorting) I know that we have had our differences, but you're my older brother. (snorting) We'll pay for your room and we're also going to rent you a car and we'll pay to fly you out there. (sobbing) - First class? - Well, we can't afford first class. - Well, (beep) you. You're dead to me. - [Mom] Clive. I'm eating in my room. - Well, that, that went - I think so. (tapping) (buzzer buzzing) - Hey man, how you doing there? You guys got bow and arrows? - Oh yeah, oh, that's it. Yeah, there it is. That'll do it. That's going to do it. Yup, where are the arrows at? Yeah, you guys got M-80s? - We don't carry fireworks. - Damn, you have a, you have that I could tape to the end of an arrow? - We have shotgun shells, are you planning to attach those to arrows and use them as a weapon? - What, no, what, are you crazy? You think that would work though? What if I shot explosive to break them open? - Sir, I feel like I have to to use these for. - Oh, no, I'm not planning anything. I'm just Christmas shopping. I'm getting 'em. You got zip lines? - But when you got like - We've got some of those things, but I do not recommend - Oh, I'm not doing that, no. Let's say somebody was Do you think if they had on a building somehow off a bow and arrow and it attached to the wall of said building, that they could just ride the - I have no idea, sir. Whatever you're planning on - I'm not doing anything. I'm just doing some Christmas shopping. I'm trying to get it out of the way. Bow and arrow's for my nephew. The zip line's for my grandmother, You know what I'm saying? No big deal. Speaking of other things, do you guys have just the top - First of all, it's - Yep, that's it. That's right, that's - [Uncle] We have one, but - Yup, yup, yeah, well, they only need the, they don't need the, they just need the top half. They don't need the legs. Well, what if somebody What were the chances you think - I feel like I have to tell will not deflect bullets. - I'll take my chances, with Christmas. Which brings me to my next question, do you guys have roller skates? - I think we have a pair around. - Let me ask you a question. How fast do you think you have to get past a couple of armed guards and still be going fast enough - One of those big bank safes? - No, I don't know, yeah, yeah? Hey, you guys got one of those, those really big bags with a - Okay, you're going to shoot arrows with shotgun shells attached to blow out the glass. Then you're going to shoot a and you're going to slide You're going to be wearing roller skates so you can just skate on who will be shooting at you. And you're going to hope that and if they are aiming at your torso, the suit of medieval armor Then you're going to hope to burst through the big bank vault at the end of the hallway, where you're going to collect the money in a cartoon money bag. - Well, no, I'm just an uncle for Christmas and I think I'll Merry Christmas. - [Wife] Neil, Neil. - Neil deGrasse Tyson. I asked you to take the dog out for a walk when I left the house four hours ago. Now I come back and this has done pissed on my drapes. Now I've got to get rid of Neil, it doesn't make any sense. You are an astrophysicist. How can you not keep track - Well, actually, it's the little details that cannot be kept In 1927, a German university lecturer named Warner Heisenberg came to a seemingly paradoxical conclusion. That the more we know about the position of a particle in physical space, the less we know about its - Okay, but what-- - Taken in conjunction with what we know about the expansion of the universe, this brings us to a That maybe what we experience as one point in time-space could actually which would mean that your curtains and little Sputnik's from one another as we are - Okay, well, just, next time. - Of course, dear. - Neil, there you are. What are you doing? We have to go to my Aunt Nellie's funeral. How are you not ready? I've been talking to How am I going to find you in your boxers, looking at a science magazine? I swear, Neil, sometimes I think you don't have any idea of what's important. - Well, actually, an is as close as we can ever come to any definition of importance. Our galaxy is one of in the observable universe, and it's a 100,000 light years across, which means it would take light - Okay, but-- If we were to chart the on one calendar year, the history of mankind as we know it, would just take place in the So whether I'm ready now or in 500 years, cosmically speaking, the - Well, okay, I'm going now. - Goodbye, honey. Who is she? Who is the white bitch that left this goddamn Oh, I got you. You're caught, because And you know who wears that? White bitches, and you of this one because I'm because I got my (beep) in Okay, Neil? You see, we are here at on a human scale, but at this point, you a trifling ass mother (beep), so expect the papers from a lawyer because we're parting ways. - Well, actually ... - We are always parting in every conceivable combination. Many physicists, including that there is an infinite It's called the multi-verse theory. And it suggests that there of universes in which I didn't have sex with that white woman. - I (beep) Bill Nye the Science Guy. - You bitch. - [Announcer] It's Joe - Yo, Joey Motion here at 101.3. (everyone shouting indistinctly) - Everybody, man, we still tripping on that last segment though. That was crazy. - That was real crazy, though. - Wardrobe malfunction. - Y'all are crazy. I can't take this no more. - Like y'all dirty, but she's crazy. - Would you do that, Leroy? - Look, man, I grew up So no. - He would want to, but he can't do it because of that fat ass. (laughing) - Why y'all always clowning on Meatball? - You brought it up. - For real though? - You're a lesser person. - Y'all got to stop playing. Meatball, jam with me here, Meatball. (speaking indistinctly) (cheering) - [Announcer] K-Beats, 101.3. (yelling indistinctly) - We're just gonna sit there (thudding) - Hey, watch where the (beep) you going. - Oh my gosh, I'm so sorry. - Oh. I didn't see you had a baby there, man. I'm sorry, I ain't trying - Yeah, hell yeah, you won't. (baby cooing) - Well, you're lucky So with that. - Look, man, you need I already told you. I'm not going to fight you. - That's what I thought, punk. Wanna go? Because we can go right now, dawg. What's going on, brother? - Man, what the hell are you doing, man? - What, what, what, what, trying to, I can bob and weave it. - You bitch ass, punk Come on, man, come on. Don't look at your boys. Look at me, man. Don't look at your boys. (slapping) - Ow, oh, okay, you think you hard. All right, but you know what? I'm going to show you what Slap me? Right? How about this, huh? Now what you going to do, huh? Now what you going to do? You ready? 'Cause we can do it right now because I can take you out, man. (thudding) Okay, oh, it's on now. Yup, you dead, you dead. Excuse me, I need this. (in foreign language). (tense action music) - What the? - What now, man? What now? Let's go. You know what? It's not even worth it, man. (laughing) - That's what I thought, so keep walking. Oh, okay, that's vomit. That is vomit. Oh, dear. - Okay, but do I look in the camera? No, oh, at you? All right, back on television, all right. (spells zapping) (whooshing) - Now knock it off, all the stupid ass, grab ass, I told you they was rotten. (tense music) - I am Parnabus Jackson, Vince Clortho High. This station is just a formality. - Here's a bunch of just this week. - Stop, you don't have to show them that. - He has a wand with a silencer on it. Why? But I ask again, why? One out of five girls in this school is pregnant with a demon baby. One out of five. (laughing) The babies are evil, but the As we say at Clortho's, that cannot be opened with (spraying) (sighing) - How are you going to be when I can see you're Dime bag of pixie dust, contraband. - Now see, here's the thing. The kids know that the only way to fly-- - Wizard pepper. Get your ass out my office. I will turn you into a spider. They're good kids. Hogwarts and Clortho's, Go hand in hand. The best top two wizarding But out of these two schools, We do score a little bit lower than Hogwarts, but there We may not have a huge endowment like they get over at Hogwarts. And yes, some of the teachers have to buy their own newt's eyes or bat wings. - One kid got transformed into a cat. They can't even afford to change him back. - This young man's name is Jamar. Normally, you're not allowed when they're in human form. But when they're a cat, Sports, everybody loves sports. It's true. - The hallways are a-bluster with the conversation - Half the team back here are riding mops. We got two little (beep) on Swiffers. - Lester. When all is said and done, the average Clortho student (laughs) Sometimes the kids think it's cute to turn themselves into a play a little joke on me. Who is that? Tyrone, is that, is that? No, that's an actual rat. (upbeat music) There he is. Hey. - Man, what's up, man? - Hey, here's the deal. 100% grass-fed Japanese - That's what I'm talking about. All right, let's grill (sizzling) - Right, all right. Oh man, is that ground chuck man? (laughs) No offense, I ain't trying to your Toyota. You know what I'm saying? - Oh, you're just putting it right next to the frozen patties, yeah, all right. - Hey, relax, man. I'm going to cook them good. - Okay. So how's Teresa doing? - She's good, she's good. She said she couldn't be here. She's got a closing today. You want to flash cook those They're grass fed. So you just want to right now, all right. - Hey, who wants cheese on their burger? - Nobody, nobody, nobody wants cheese. - Anybody want a double burger? - No, nobody wants a double burger. We're not going to double, that's like putting a diamond ring on a (in foreign language). I'm sorry, but the grass than this house. No double burgers. - Hey, what the hell? - You may as well just poop on that. - What? - You just ketchup-raped my Kobe burger. This was a mistake. This, no, no, no. Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. See, this meat came all the way over here from the Pacific Ocean by boat because the air pressure Give me that. You are not worthy. Give me that, bro. This is ridiculous. These are $126 ... Oh, this little mother- (dog whimpering) $126 worth of beef. Y'all are not worthy. - Did he take my dog? Hey, all I know is it's good having another brother - Hey man, it's good to have you over. And I think that you will dig this. - Hey, nice guitar collection. - Oh, thanks, man. You want to hear something? - Yeah, sure. All right, let's get this. (gentle acoustic music) Well, I'm just a good old American boy With a heart that's Dreaming of the girl with And her eyes like the skies of blue - Country music. in Texas, so. Keep her safe from the homies Where they're smoking the Keep that pretty white dress 'Cause that's the American way - Whoa, pretty racist song. - Racist against who? - Black people. - Well, keeping the red-headed girl away from the homies on the wrong side of town? - Homies? Come on, brother. There's all kinds of homies. White homies, Asian homies. - No, homies are black. - No, I think you're I think that's your stuff. You hear the twang and then but that's, that's just Here, look, you're gonna like this one. You'll like this one. - All right. Some folks wear their With their pants down low Take their beer by the 40 And their chicken deep-fried I think we all know who we're talking The only dark I like is The only hood I love Can't trust you if I can't I think we all know - Hey, wait, stop that, that's racist. - What's what, what is racist about it? - &quot;The only hood I love - Yeah, man. about the Klan, man. - The Ku Klux Klan? Are you outside of your mind? That's traditional country Like a pickup truck or or your dog got killed or your - I would have been fine - What is the difference and what is in the song? - They're not racial. - Hey, you know what? Can I just say something, man? I'm just going to be frank. You're getting a little like Al Sharpton, like Farhan Khan on me right now, man. - Oh my God, are you serious? - Dude, please, hey, give Let me just do one more, dawg. I absolutely promise you and it's impossible for you - Okay, it seems like you're about to sing the most racist song so far. Hidey-Lidey-Lidey-Lee Give me a rope and find me a tree - Okay, I'm out. - Come on, man, hey. Shoot, over here, trying Write off an entire genre of music. The banjos are strumming Let's get the boys together Oh, damn, now I see it. Now I see it. (upbeat music) I want you But I don't need you