The Shawshank Redemption. A story of hope. A story of friendship. And the top-rated movie of all time on IMDb. Here are 8 screenwriting secrets [MUSIC] The Shawshank Redemption, at its core, So notice how much humanity there is in this story. We have the yearning to live as normal people. Red: We sat and drank with the sun on our shoulders As for Andy, he spent that break hunkered in the shade. I think he did it just to feel normal again. And for the briefest of moments, every last man at Shawshank felt free. I think it's the excitement only a free man can feel. A free man at the start of a long journey. We have the cruelty of the unstoppable passing of time. Red: 30 years. Jesus when you say it like that... Andy: You wonder where it went. Red: The man's been in here 50 years, Heywood. 50 years. This is all he knows. Brooks: It's hard work. I try to keep up Red: They send you here for life. That's exactly what they take. The cruelty of aging is even in the little details. Notice how both Andy and Red have to read things. Red: I got here auto repair and... soap carving. And, finally, we have the magic of friendship. Red: I'm thinking Andy could use a nice welcome back Brooks: I keep thinking Jake might But he never does. Red: Sometimes it makes me sad though, The place you live in is that much more drab I guess I just miss my friend. Don't forget: if the characters in your story show the audience the universal struggle [MUSIC] In this story, we have two main, opposing characters: Andy Dufresne and Samuel Norton. Let's take a look at how their character Here's what's said about Andy: Judge: You strike me as a particularly icy and remorseless man, Mr. Dufresne. Red: I must admit I didn't think much of Andy It looked like a stiff breeze would blow him over. Rumor has it you're a real cold fish. Think your shit smells sweeter than most. But here's who he really is: Red: His first night in the joint, Andy Dufresne He never made a sound. Heywood: Hey, Tyrell. How's that horse of mine doing, anyway? Tyrell: Dead. Andy: What was his name? You get this in your eyes, it blinds you. Red: Sometimes he was able to fight them off. Sometimes not. He never said who did it. But we all knew. Andy: I'd only ask three beers apiece [GUARD LAUGHS] Norton: Turn that off! [MUSIC GETS LOUDER] Andy: Here. A little parole rejection present. Red: It's very pretty, Andy. Tommy: Yes, sir. I do. Andy: Good. Because, if we do this, we do it all the way. Red: Andy crawled to freedom through Now let's take a look at Samuel Norton. Here's what he says: Norton: Rule number one. No blasphemy. I'll not have the Lord's name Put your trust in the Lord. So let's see then how Norton adheres Norton: Woman can't bake worth shit. Don't you ever mention money to me again, You'll think you've been fucked by a train. Red: There are a hundred different ways Men, materials, you name it. And, oh my Lord, Andy: He got scams you never dreamed of. Kickbacks on his kickbacks. It's a river of dirty money running through this place. Norton: I'm sure by now you've heard. A man that young, less than a year to go, Broke Captain Hadley's heart to shoot him. [GUNSHOTS] [GUNSHOT] I know I've said it before, but it's important, To reveal the true nature of your characters, don't tell us who they are. Show us what they do. [MUSIC] The Shawshank Redemption by constantly creating questions They give us little tidbits that Here are some examples: Red: When Andy Dufresne came to me in 1949 and asked me to smuggle Rita Hayworth I told him, &quot;No problem.&quot; I'm known to locate certain things What do you want? Andy: Rita Hayworth. Red: What? Andy: Can you get her? Floyd: Taking bets today, Red? Red: All right, who's your horse? Floyd: That little sack of shit. Eight from the front. He'll be first. Heywood: Oh, bullshit. I'll take that action. You're out some smokes, son. Let me tell you. Red: Somebody always breaks down crying. The only question is: Who's it gonna be? Bogs: Hey, we all need friends in here. I could be a friend to you. Guard: Warden wants to talk. Red: I got a postcard in the mail. It was blank, but the postmark said: A man nobody ever laid eyes on before Until that moment, he didn't exist. They also leave questions dangling without an answer. Red: Why'd you do it? Andy: I'm innocent, Red. Just like everybody else here. There's something buried under it Red: What, Andy? Andy: You'll have to pry it up. Whenever a character makes a threat it automatically makes the audience wonder Brooks: Maybe I should get me a gun and I could shoot the manager. Norton: Nothing stops. Or you will do the hardest time there is. Andy: Get busy living, or get busy dying. Guard: Dufresne! Don't make me come down there Red: Norton had no intention of going that quietly. We've all heard the screenwriting advice of In this movie, they leave scenes really early. This is a clever technique that works because you automatically gain at least Let's take a look. Red: Truth is, Norton wanted to size Andy up. Norton: Do you enjoy working in the laundry? Andy: No, sir, not especially. Norton: Well perhaps we can find something more befitting a man of your education. BAM! Scene's over. We don't discover the answer until the next scene. Dekins: I'm Dekins. I was thinking about setting up some kind of trust fund Look at how they repeat this technique over and over. Floyd: Red, Andy. It's Brooks. Red: Watch the door. What? Tommy: About four years ago... Red: Well, shit. Guard: Oh, my holy God. [PHONE RINGS] Woman: Good morning. If you keep the audience in a constant state you can sustain their interest over an entire story. Remember what the great Billy Wilder taught us: &quot;Grab the audience by the throat [MUSIC] Remember what we've talked about Reversals are a crucial way of surprising the audience First, you set it up so that the audience has The reversal, then, provides a delicious twist. And this can happen at all levels: scene, sequence, act and story. Let's look at reversals within a scene. What's the expectation here? Brooks: Are you going to eat that? That's nice and ripe. We think that this crazy old man But, then, we get the reversal. [BIRD CHIRPS] Here's another example: We know how violent Captain Hadley can get. So, when Andy walks towards him, Hadley: Step aside. Heywood: They're gonna push him off the roof. But here's the reversal: Andy: Because if you do trust her, there's no reason If you want to keep all that money, The IRS allows a one-time-only gift to your spouse Here are some more examples: Brooks: I'm gonna cut his fucking throat! Red: Heywood? What's he done to you? What the hell did you do to set him off, anyway? Heywood: I didn't do nothing. Ain't you heard? We also have reversals needing several scenes to come to fruition. For example: Bogs is constantly tormenting Andy. So, when he's in isolation for his actions, Guard: Time's up, Bogs. We think it's just going to continue. But Bogs encounters the reversal in his cell. Here's another sequence reversal: Andy decides to ask for funds. We see several scenes of him: writing letters, and waiting for an answer. The outcome is pretty much what we expect. In fact, we're made to forget about it while we When Brooks is released, Brooks: Maybe I should get me a gun I don't like it here. I'm tired of being afraid all the time. I've decided not to stay. So it's a surprising jolt when we get the reversal. So, remember the previous sequence Now we get the reversal: Andy: What's all this? Hadley: You tell me, fuck stick. And, of course, we have the big reversal The expectation: Andy: You know that wouldn't matter. Norton: Would you be willing to swear having placed your hand on the good book? Tommy: Just give me that chance. And the reversal: [GUNSHOTS] And it keeps moving up the chain. Here's a reversal at the act level: In the first act, here's the big expectation Judge: You strike me as a particularly icy Red: That tall drink of water Rumor has it, you a real cold fish. Think your shit smells sweeter than most. And here's the reversal: Andy proves his worth and becomes friends And finally, we have the obvious reversal Andy: I wonder if you might get me Red: What? Andy: A rock hammer. Red gives us the expectation from the get-go: Red: Andy was right. I finally got the joke. It would take a man about 600 years And, of course, we all know the big reversal: Red: I remember thinking it would take a man 600 years Old Andy did it in less than 20. So don't forget: having reversals keeps the audience engaged and on their toes. [MUSIC] A quick comment on what, exactly, Diegesis is the internal story world that So a diegetic element is anything within the Such as music. In the Shawshank Redemption, Everything supports the story. When the inmates are watching the movie Gilda, Johnny: Where's your canary? Ballin: This is where the canary is, Johnny. Quite a surprise to hear a woman singing This resonates in two ways within the story: Red: I have to remind myself Their feathers are just too bright. I have no idea, to this day, Then, we have Mozart's Marriage of Figaro. Andy plays a duettino called which is about a plan to expose a spouse's infidelity. Notice the irony in how this ties back to Andy himself. Andy: She was glad I knew, that she hated all the sneaking around. In the library, Heywood listens Notice how the lyrics echo the prisoners' plight. Heywood: Lord, I don't know what to do... All I do is sit and sigh... These next elements deal more with the written word. Notice the subtext in the Bible passages Andy: &quot;Watch ye, therefore, for you know not Norton: &quot;I am the light of the world.&quot; &quot;He that follows me shall not walk in darkness but shall have the light of life.&quot; Notice how the framed embroidery in Norton's office Even a book in the library supports the story. Heywood: The Count of Monte Crisco. Andy: You'll like it. Don't leave anything in your screenplay Make deliberate choices for every single element [MUSIC] Many screenwriting resources talk about follow the same structure as an entire story. They generally have: an inciting incident, the main rising action, a crisis, and a resolution. There are three brilliant sequences in this movie Let's take a look at how they exhibit Tommy: I was thinking maybe trying I hear you helped a couple of fellows with that. Andy: R...S...T... Red: So, Andy took Tommy under his wing. The boy found brains he never knew he had. Andy: Let's see how the score comes out. Tommy: I'll tell you how I feel bad. I let him down. Smart fella, ain't he? Red: As smart as they come. Used to be a banker on the outside. Tommy: What's he in here for, anyway? Red: Caught his wife in bed with some golf pro. What? Tommy: One night, like a joke, I say, &quot;Yeah, Elmo, who'd you kill?&quot; Elmo: A golf pro, but she's married to some other guy. Some hotshot banker. And he's the one they pinned it on. Norton: Would you be willing to swear before a judge Tommy: Just give me that chance. [GUNSHOTS] [CROW CAWS] Heywood: I didn't do nothing. Ain't you heard? His parole's come through. Brooks: I try to keep up, but my hands hurt I have bad dreams, like I'm falling. I wake up scared. I don't like it here. I'm tired of being afraid all the time. I've decided not to stay. Andy: &quot;P.S. Tell Heywood I'm sorry I put a &quot;No hard feelings. Brooks.&quot; Red: So, you go on and stamp your form, sonny, Forty years I've been asking permission to piss. I can't squeeze a drop without say-so. There's a harsh truth to face: No way I'm gonna make it on the outside. All I want is to be back where things make sense. Where I won't have to be afraid all the time. Only one thing stops me: a promise I made to Andy. See how rich the sequences become when they also [MUSIC] Let's get into theme. One of the reasons why this film sticks to you, Hope. However, theme isn't just a word or a phrase. It's a question that can be argued both ways. So the theme here could be: is hope a good thing? Let's look at the opposing thematic arguments. Andy: Remember, Red, hope is a good thing, And no good thing ever dies. Red: Hope is a dangerous thing. Hope can drive a man insane. Remember what we talked about in the sequences? There are two mirroring sequences with Brooks and Red Both struggle with the fear. Brooks shows us the negative thematic argument And Red shows us the positive argument Not coincidentally, hope is the central element Floyd: Hey, Red. How'd it go? Red: Same old shit, different day. Let me tell you something, my friend. Hope is a dangerous thing. Andy: You gonna play it? Red: No. Not right now. [HARMONICA PLAYS FAINTLY] Red: It's just shitty pipe dreams. Mexico is way the hell down there and you're in here, Only one thing stops me: A promise I made to Andy. I hope to see my friend and shake his hand. I hope. Ironically, this follows the inverse direction MAN: Do you feel you've been rehabilitated? Red: Oh, yes, sir. Absolutely, sir. Man: Do you feel you've been rehabilitated? Red: Oh, yes, sir. Without a doubt. Man: Do you feel you've been rehabilitated? Red: Rehabilitated? Stamp your form, sonny, and stop wasting my time. Because, to tell you the truth, Give your screenplay a powerful theme. Make your story mean something [MUSIC] Let's forget about all the screenwriting principles The story of the Shawshank Redemption achieves It makes us feel something. Look at the wide spectrum of emotions The betrayal of a cheating spouse. The terror of being incarcerated. Judge: Two life sentences back to back. [GAVEL SLAMS] Inmate: Come on, fish! Come on! The joy of simple pleasures. Red: We sat and drank with the sun on our shoulders The magic of seduction. [CROWD GOES WILD] The fear of the unknown. Brooks: I have bad dreams, like I'm falling. I wake up scared. Red: There's a harsh truth to face. No way I'm gonna make it on the outside. What it's like to be lonely. Brooks: I keep thinking Jake might just But he never does. The place you live in is that much more I guess I just miss my friend. Don't forget about humor. Heywood: Count of Monte Crisco. Floyd: That's &quot;Cristo&quot;, you dumb shit. Heywood: By Alexandre... Dumbass. The frustration of failure. Tommy: I'll tell you how the goddamn score comes out. Fuck this place! Fuck it! Regret over past mistakes. Andy: God, I loved her. I just didn't know how to show it, that's all. Red: There's not a day that goes by I don't feel regret. This old man is all that's left. I gotta live with that. Shock. [GUNSHOTS] Despair. Andy: That's my life! Don't you understand? My life! Concern for a loved one. Red: He's talking funny. I'm really worried about him. The beauty of music. Heywood: Lord, I don't know what to do... All I do is sit and sigh... Red: I like to think they were singing about something And makes your heart ache because of it. A sense of belonging. Heywood: You want a cold one, Andy? Andy: No, thanks. A sense of purpose. Red: The man likes to play chess. Let's get him some rocks. Andy: I'd like to try with your permission. I'll write a letter a week. They can't ignore me forever. Red: Tommy took to it pretty well, too. The boy found brains he never knew he had. And, finally: a sense of adventure. Andy: If you're reading this, you've gotten out. And, if you've come this far, Red: Get busy living or get busy dying. That's goddamn right. I find I'm so excited I can barely sit still or hold a thought in my head. So, the lesson here: Don't just write a story. Make us feel something. Hi. I'm Daniel, creator of Script Sleuth. First, I want to thank my patrons Your generosity helps keep the channel going. If you're not a member yet, please go to to get early access to videos, exclusive content not available to the public, and vote on films to cover next. And, if you haven't already, please be sure to subscribe Thank you so much for watching.