- Dozens of missile silos and they were made to But after being abandoned in the sixties, this one has been transformed into a 14-story luxury underground bunker, complete with the pool, and so much more, with the purpose of giving if the world ended. And we're gonna spend 24 hours here, and this is how you get in. (Jimmy knocking) - [Robotic Voice] Access granted. - Look how thick this is. You couldn't break into this Once we step inside and shut that door, we're stuck for 24 hours. Okay? - Come on in boys. The door's now closing guys. That's a 16,000 pound 24 hours starts now, let's go. Door number two. There's another door. This place is so secure, it's crazy. Got it. Oh my goodness. Look at this door. - That's another thick door. - Okay. Here's another door. - Another. that we've had to go through. Chandler. I'll let you do it. (handle rattling) Oh, wow. - I don't know. - On the other side of this is a pool. Which only makes sense. (door clanking) - Whoa! - We should throw Chris in the water. - Oh, totally. - Let's do it. I'm gonna go- Yeah. No. (explosion booming) - All right, time for huggies. Time for huggies. - I'm locking you guys in. (water splashing) - Now I don't have to wash my clothes. (guitar music) - This elevator goes Whoa that looks very ominous. Come on in. Here is all the floors. - [Elevator Assistant] - Whoa. Look at that. That's incredible. - You can see everything going on here. - [Cameraman] This is crazy. - Everything in this with top of the line surveillance. As you can see, Chris is I bet you he Fortnite dances. - [Chandler] He twerked. He threw it back. - We're gonna go to floor number four. Whoa. - Wait, so this is where This is 47 servings of apples. Now let's talk about how we're in a store. Look at this. - This is an underground fish market. - There's like multiple - How does this work? - Whoa. (Chandler gasps) - This is where they grow They literally grow everything here, and this is Dustin. He's gonna answer our questions. Why are we growing all this? - If you were to be locked you're gonna need to grow your own plants, and you're gonna be self sustained. They grow the fish, and they to grow the plants, to grow the food for the fish. - Crazy how they have this and do all this stuff for people. This is nuts. - So you guys have any more questions? - Do fish get thirsty? - We're gonna move on. Come on. Let's go. (creepy instrumental music) Now we're gonna go to the 14th - [Chris] Wow. - Oh dude, it feels like - [Chris] Whoa. I'd say we probably have - The &quot;Bee Movie&quot; it is. - [Barry Benson] You like jazz? - Sorry about that detour, we're back. This next one, instead of the elevator, we're gonna take the stairs. - Why? We should walk all the way to the top. (Chris farts) - [Jimmy] So is this floor 13? - This is floor 13. Is this the gym? Let's get our gains boys. - This workout room is great, in this bunker for an like 10 years, you're What are you doing Chris? - I'm getting fit. - And attached to the weight room, there's a sauna. (Chris gasps) - See you guys later, bye. - So Chris, how does this feel? (upbeat instrumental music) (switches clicking) I wonder what the owners of the bunker think of us right now. - They're probably watching &quot;Look at those idiots.&quot; - Just stop. Just stop it. - [Chandler] What floor is this? - Oh, this is the education place. - Wait, really? - Wait, this is the school. Were they drawing the This is classified information. - Project... Can't even say it. - Oh. A library. - There's just so many books in here. - Not really. (Jimmy laughs) (upbeat instrumental music) - We're about to play a game How about we all bet $2,000. Whoever wins gets $6,000. - All right, deal. (intense instrumental music) - [Chris] Yeah, I did that. - So we're splitting 'em into three. We're not gonna bore you with it, see you at the end. (intense instrumental music) (ball clattering) - [Chris] That's the ball game. - Thank you sir. I'll take your money. - Oh, there's two grand. We take that, boom. There's four grand, boom. There you go. (cash register clinking) Let's keep going. - I hope that was just for the video. (Chris laughs) - This place is really cool. Lots of fun stuff. Doesn't even feel like a bunker. I say we all split up and go have fun. - Okay. - Split up on three, three. - [Group] Split up. - All right guys, we split up. I'm gonna go play some ping pong - [Elevator Assistant] Going up. - Now that we're split up, (footsteps clattering) Is this the library? It is. All right. &quot;Prepare For Anything Survival Manual.&quot; I think if you have a - Now that we've split Gotta get those gains. I saw a guy at the gym do these one time. (ping pong ball clattering) (upbeat instrumental music) - All right. Let's go climb this wall. - &quot;The Wizard's First Rule.&quot; I have to read this entire 600 page book to see his first rule? - I was gonna work out but it's really hard, and I don't wanna. (upbeat instrumental music) (Chandler screams) - I'm scared. I'm getting down. - These books don't really interest me, but there's a chessboard. (intense instrumental music) - [Chris] No. - Sit down. Time to do chess. You wanna bet $2,000 - I don't want to, but let's risk it. Let the dice roll. - All right. (intense instrumental music) (chess pieces clattering) So you lost two grand pool, You wanna do double or nothing? If you win, you could pay off everything. - All right. Double or nothing. I get to have Ryan on my team though. - Hey. them versus me. If he wins, that pays off his pool debt and the last game. did you actually used to play chess? - Oh yeah, a lot. - Did you beat people? (intense instrumental music) - I wonder what Chandler's up to. (intense instrumental music) (intense instrumental music) Chris bet two grand on the first game to make up for what he lost on pool. - Yeah. So then now he's doing double or nothing. Four grand. - He looks sad. (intense instrumental music) (chess piece clattering) - Yeah. - [Ryan] That's check. - That's checkmate. (chess piece clattering) So, checkmate, GG. Thank you. - [Elevator Assistant] Going up. - If you're watching the I'm through with this place, I've lost so much money here. (Chris grunting) - [Elevator Assistant] Residential level. - This looks like a normal house. - [Cameraman] Oh my God. - [Chris] Yo. - This floor right here, floor number 11, costs - Can we afford that? - Each of these condos cost between one and two and a half million dollars, and they can support up to 10 people. And every single floor is protected by nine foot thick walls. Ain't nobody getting in. It even has windows of the outside. This is just a video, it's a TV of the outside world. You're getting hydrated? Based on everything I've seen so far, this is probably the most Oh, feels like a normal bed. Wait, there's bunk beds. I don't even have kids - Top bunk. - Hi - We're just gonna let 'em do their thing. They're like 10 years old, they're talking about pandas. So we're on the fourth floor, and we're gonna get some food. - Hungies. - So the boys are hungry. We're not allowed to- - Scrambled eggs in a can. - What we're gonna do, is we're gonna go to those plant you saw earlier, and we're gonna cut some and make a salad. - Through the tunnel. - You're our chef for the day. What is that? - Lettuce. - Lettuce. - So we're just supposed - Yeah. - Yeah. and can you harvest us some fish? - We already have fish that and stored so that we can (Chandler claps) fish and salad. - [Elevator Assistant] Surface level. So we're back on the residential floor. We got our greens right here. We also got the fish that and we're gonna make in the bunker. - Put them in a strainer, you wash it off all really good. - Shouldn't you guys wash your hands? - I did. Did you not see me? I went like this. - Now we spin the lettuce. Watch, are you ready for this? - I'm not. - Now we take it off. - But Chris, how are - First off, I need a pan, some oil. (intense instrumental music) (oil sizzling) - Here you are. Please do not touch it yet. The plate is hot. (stately instrumental music) - Is this in case I barf? - Yes. - [Chris] Yes. Yes. - Which would you recommend - I would go with the salad, because it can't be raw and - All right, I'm gonna start - Okay. Oh my goodness. (salad crunching) - Oh, it tastes like salt. - Your eyes are watering. He's crying. This is so salty. All right, let's try the fish. (magical sparkling) It tastes amazing. (Chandler clapping) - Now that we've had a good and healthy dinner, what - Sauna. We haven't done sauna. Sweat with your boys. - Chris, you hit the sauna. You watch a movie. I gotta take some phone calls. - All right. One, two, three, break on three. - I'm gonna go get hot and sweaty. - Now I'm gonna go to the I'm gonna see where just to see who we can scare the best. That sounds so mean. It's okay, I give 'em money all the time. - [Elevator Assistant] - Yeah, right over here. Okay, they're both in the movie theater, so we're gonna go there. Real talk. They've gotten a little too I mean, the world's ending, like, come on. We gotta scare 'em a little bit. (Jimmy shushing) (explosion booming) (sharp instrumental music) - You'll never be able to sneak up on me. - Well, that didn't work, so I guess I'm just gonna watch a movie. (gentle instrumental music) (Jimmy grunting) To be honest, I completely forgot I'm 11 stories deep, underground. This feels like a normal house. But anyways, I'm gonna get some sleep, I'll see you guys tomorrow morning. - All right, I'm about to go to bed, but I'm gonna say I just wanted to tell you - [Chris's wife] I love you too. I'm gonna go to bed. - All right guys, I'm in my room, I'm gonna go to bed, but Yeah, can I get a large cheese I'm in a bunker. (gentle instrumental music) - Good morning. I spent the first three hours of today listening to an audio book on Steve jobs. Let's go see what the boys are up to. (door clicking) Chris. - Wake up. - Come on, we got a video to film. - My eyes are burning. For some reason, whenever I wake up, my in the morning. - [Jimmy Neutron] Gotta blast. - I'm so tired. - How was your guys' night last night? - I slept like a rock. - I also slept like a rock. - So we're all in agreeance, sleeping in a bunker is the same as sleeping not in a bunker. - No, sleeping in a (Jimmy laughs) We are now out of the bunker. Oh my gosh, the sun is so bright. - Ah, I can't see. - Kinda wanna go back. - I'm going back. in there and video games and- - Wait. - Wait, wait, wait, wait! - The door just closed on us. I wanted to go back. - Try the code again. (Jimmy knocking) - It's not working. - They change the code every 24 hours. Darn it! Mr. Beast 6000 oh (explosion booms) Yeah you know his name He changed it once or twice But I think it's here to stay (explosion booming)