Hey there guys, Paul here, from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we are the VAV system. VAV stands for variable air volume. VAV systems are very common in offices. This is because they are compared to the CAV model, which is a constant air volume. And they also allow and that's really handy because not every room in the the same heat load. With a VAV system you'll the amount of cooling, possibly heating, into each of the rooms individually from the same main duct So as you can see here we've got just a mock up So we've got the main in the plant room. Then we've got the supply goes through all the rooms in And then on the other side which comes back to the AHU, and then it can either be chucked outside if it's dirty air or some and used again throughout the AHU. If you're new to HVAC and you check out some of &quot;The Fundamentals of This covers a lot of material in the AHU, what you typically find in each one. So I highly recommend you go back and have a look at these. There's also a link Now in a VAV system, the AHU and through the supply duct, the air is running at 55 degrees Fahrenheit. And that will flow all the way through to the end of this duct here where each of the rooms and take some of the 13 degree or 55 degree Fahrenheit air as needed. That air distributes into the spreads across and then, as you can see at the back here, there is the return grills is picked up and sent back to the AHU. So the main difference in a VAV system compared to a CAV system is this, the VAV terminal. So this is located just on the branch coming off of the main duct. And each VAV box serves a certain zone. The VAV box is connected to a thermostat which is of the zone which needs to be controlled, specifically by the VAV box. The VAV box look something like this, where we've got the inlet the main supply duct. We've got the main VAV box, or terminal, and then we've got the exit, or the supply air, If I just make these sides transparent so we can have a look inside, and there we go. Now we can have a look inside the VAV box, or VAV terminal as it should be called. You can see it's a pretty There's nothing too complex So we've got the controller located here, mounted on the the actuator. The actuator controls and connected to the shaft is this damper. The damper can modulate its position to control and the amount of and thus entering into the zone. The air entering the box, like I said, is around 13 degrees celsius typically, but this temperature Sometimes that isn't warm enough so we've got an electrical reheater here which will switch on and it will then just warm that air up as it passes through. You don't necessarily but it is fairly common. They don't necessarily They could also be fed or it could also be from a heat But for simplicity, I've just left it as electrical reheater. On the backside looking you can see these tubes the controller and off entering into there and connecting to this weird cross shape. This is an air flow sensor and it is basically measuring the change in pressure across this device. And from that you can the air velocity, or flow Now this works a little like a pitot tube, if you know what that is. But it's not quite the But I think we'll leave But basically all you is there are some small pinholes and also on the back of it. And if you imagine you got and hitting the front of this, then it's gonna impact on so it's gonna have a high And obviously the a low pressure point. You can find the differential and if you average that and calibrate it a bit, then you can calculate entering into that box and zone. This should show you what some So this first part here, Here you can see the air velocity sensor and also the damper. So this is looking through Then looking at the we've got the thermostat, the controller, and then the actuator. Don't forget the actuator is the device which controls the position Now the damper never really closes fully, or at least typically it doesn't. And that's because you still need a certain amount of fresh So air can still get past this and through and into the zones which But if you suddenly got a higher heat gain within the room or in the zone, and the temperature in above the desired setpoint or the desired temperature of the room, then the damper will start to open, and this will allow Remember the air is 55 degrees fahrenheit, so that will start to cool the room down, and force all that hot air In the middle of summer solar heat gains coming and maybe you've got a meeting room and it's full of people, being generated in there, so the damper will open let as much cold air in as possible. And this will then flood into the room, into the zone, and start to But during the winter part of the day when there's then the damper's position the closed position, remember, not fully, and this modulates the cooling. Now if you imagine these VAV boxes which are connected to the system here, as they can all vary the amount of air which is coming and before being returned to the AHU, as they vary that amount of air, then these dampers will start to close. And as they start to close, these fans, here in the AHU, are still pushing out as much Now that's gonna really in these ducts. So what we want to do is here towards the furthest to get the most energy And these are connected over to the VSD, the variable speed drive, or the variable frequency drive. The VFD is connected directly to the fans, the fan motors, and the VFD will then slow the fans down, slow the induction motors down, and this will reduce the amount of air being pushed into the duct. The pressure sensor is of where it should be operating at, or what that pressure should be at the end of the duct. And the fans will reduce in speed to reduce the amount of air being pushed into there to match that pressure point. And that means the fans and your main AHU cooling cores will also use less cooling as well. Obviously the added bonus is that each of the rooms are classed as a zone and they can all be to meet the specific and the heat gain within it. You can also get some which you can see this There are a lot of variants So this is the most simple to show you and help you understand this. I'll just show you inside So it is essentially the same, but you can see the panels So you've got the filter here will be coming back into and forcing in through this fan, into this chamber, and that will then mix with so the cold air and the warmer will be mixing in here pass through the heater and off into the zones. And that's useful because the fan will keep a constant volume so if you imagine as that damper closes the less air volume will be coming through so the fan will ensure that a consistent volume is so you get the air turnover in the room. And it also reduces being dumped through out of the diffuser on to anyone sitting below. As that will be very and the staff will become sick, and you'll get sick building syndrome, and lots of calls to the maintenance, etc. You want to avoid all that so sometimes fans are put to help the performance. Alright that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. Please remember to subscribe, And if you have any comments, please leave them in the I'll try to answer these or some of the other users Don't forget to check out our website, http://www.TheEngineeringMindset.com. And you can also find us on Once again, thanks for watching.