Tim Ferriss: Hello, boys and girls, ladies This is Tim Ferriss for a rare in-person podcast. I know that's become the norm on YouTube and I am thrilled to have Andrew Huberman here So great to have you here in person, Andrew. So Andrew Huberman, who is this Andrew Huberman? Dr. Huberman, PhD, on Twitter @HubermanLab, in the Department of Neurobiology at Stanford He has made numerous important contributions function, and neuroplasticity. Work from the Huberman Laboratory at Stanford top journals including nature, science and For those who don't know, that's like having But back to the bio, Andrew's the host of as one of the top five podcasts in the world The show aims to help viewers and listeners tools. New episodes air every Monday on YouTube and You can find all things Andrew at hubermanlab.com, HubermanLab, and also on Twitter as mentioned Andrew, nice to see you. Andrew Huberman: Great to see you. So happy to be here. I want to say I grew up listening to your when I started listening. And so for me, I'm really tickled to be here when I first became a professor was based Now mind you, my work weeks were like 100-hour I actually lived in my laboratory with my to that -- but I incorporated a ton of the I was following The 4-Hour Body slow carb I was training. I had my cheat days and on and on and on. So for me, this is kind of being transported Tim Ferriss: Oh, man. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Well, I can't say enough positive things about and as you know, this is not just because text you all the time. In fact, I will say this, I have a notebook time I was pretty lonely. It was just me and my dog. Eventually, a great girlfriend at the time But I was running my lab and there's a lot understandably and necessarily. And so I was pretty lonely, and I thought, I was in a new town, I didn't know many people, the other day, I'll send you a photo, and I really admired and whose principles and every aspect of my life. At the top of the list is a guy named Tim recently become friends with. And so totally, that's another amazing story. Joe Strummer, who unfortunately I never met, attire. He always wore a buttoned-down black shirt At some point and much more related to your podcast which eventually came along, Rick having on my podcast and learning from, and away before I ever had the chance to meet But anyway, I had to tell you that you were And I did that because I would look at that and embody in terms of ways about going through and personal life? So that was my shortlist, and I'm very proud I still have it. I sent Tim the list the other day and he was This is pretty wild.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;You think it's wild for you, So anyway, to set the context. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, well, I appreciate that, just with your research and academic bonafides is a lot in and of itself. And of course we've spoken before, but the have just blown the barn doors off with the So I am happy to have you here, thrilled to recording remotely. So we have a ton to dive into, and hopefully As they say, it's all downhill from here as But I thought we could begin with perhaps not to rehash it, but to simply ask the question. Since we last spoke, which was a while ago, what have you changed your mind on and what to both of those? Andrew Huberman: Yeah, I'll start with what I've doubled down on the idea, which perhaps But I certainly believe that our state of dictated by our state of mind and body in And on the one hand, people are going to hear you're going to feel like garbage. And if you're well-rested, you'll feel great.&quot; That's kind of the top contour of it. But when one looks at the neuroscience, for the amount of rapid eye movement sleep that of sleep, because your sleep is broken up is strongly dictated by the ratio of slow sleep that you had in the previous 90-minute And then when you start to look at the research that your ability to be focused, say, for or a creative brainstorm session, or I don't that you're dealing with during therapy or a square wave function. None of us should sit down and expect ourselves Much of our ability to move into that state the target or goal of that bout as I'm calling in the previous moments and hours. And so when I zoom out from that, what I've there are just a core set of foundational I think thanks to the incredibly hard work Diplomat on Twitter, it's such a great name A decade ago or so, it was like, &quot;I'll sleep That was the dominant mentality out there. And yeah, sleep's great, but getting stuff Matt has really impressed on everybody that our ability to perform is so strongly dependent not every night of our life; we have to be So a hat tip is insufficient. So sleep is critical, but sleep is just one set the buoyancy or the foundation upon which transitions that I'm talking about at all. And those five things are sleep -- in the days, you're just going to fall to pieces. In the presence of quality-sufficient sleep at an amazing level. There's a gain of function and a loss of function It's not just if you sleep poorly, you function You sleep better, you function much better. So sleep, I would say, is at the top of the Nutrients, and there you can think macronutrients and your vegans are only eating plants and 90 percent of the world, is eating a combination But quality nutrients, I think that when I and arguments out there, it seems that everyone 80 percent or more of our nutrition should sources. Minimally processed would require some cooking, packaged foods or highly palatable foods. So you've got sleep nutrients. But then we should also put in micronutrients, about supplementation. I think that there's supplementation or supplements vitamin supplements and people say, &quot;Well, protein, isn't that just food? Wouldn't you be better off with a chicken Okay, well then when you talk about convenience this huge category of things ranging from Ashwagandha and Shilajit and tongkat ali and Tim Ferriss: I'm in! I'll buy all of them! Andrew Huberman: Exactly. All the herbal stuff, right? Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Andrew Huberman: You're not going to get that Tim Ferriss: Yeah, totally. Andrew Huberman: So should we call them supplements And so let's just say the third thing is, includes macronutrients, and that includes So those two things. Then the third would be movement. And this has also been an enormous transition is not just for people interested in body athletes, but now it seems everybody, including of cardiovascular exercise and you need resistance or weights or machines, etc, that you need Not a week goes by without seeing an article standard media, let's call it traditional media that highlights some study showing that offset Alzheimer's or that as our friend Peter of the end-of-life-creating injuries are due movements. So you need movement, that's the third category. Fourth, I will argue, and I like to think want to call it that, is light. In particular, sunlight in the early part trying to minimize the amount of artificial and late night hours most of the time, because And then I think the last category that's let's just call it relationships, because So those things set up the core foundation. And I think one way to think about them is Another is to think about them in terms of And that's how I've really doubled down is something into each one of those things. So I think that 10 years ago, or five years okay, what's the workout split? Or how am I going to eat for the next couple What am I trying to optimize for? Is it muscle? Is it fat loss? Is it just maintaining? Is it energy? Is it focus? That's all fine and good. But sleep, nutrients, exercise, light, relationships, I consider to be all of the elements that possible between the states that we happen And when I zoom out and I think about what everyone deals with, it's like how to get So we can talk about what do you take, what's But you have to say, &quot;Well, how are you sleeping? Have you done any exercise?&quot; You really always find yourself, or I find through the sequence of five things before not taking three or 600 milligrams of Alpha and yes, it works, etc. But those things really set the foundation. And so I like to think of those five things You have to re-up on sleep every 24 hours 24 hours. You can go a day or so immobile, but you better And ideally, you're moving seven days a week. Doesn't necessarily mean trained to failure You can Goggins your life or you can not Goggins For those of you who don't know, I'm referring to never stop moving. Although I just learned meditates two hours And I'm inclined to believe when he says that, You need nutrients, even if they come from You're going to fast for a day or two, okay I know you've done that. I would put hydration under nutrients too. So you can drive nutrients from stored fat, The relationship it's light is you're going You're going to need sunlight, even if through bright artificial lights at night, not every And then that relationship's one is the one more depth at some point, but it requires Now, that doesn't necessarily mean you have every 24 hours. Some people are far more introverted than to yourself in that solo time, and hopefully that has some internal repercussions. So if I've doubled down on anything, it's optimization. There is no real interest, at least from me, I'm paying attention to each and every one You have to re-up on each and every one of And if you don't, you can get by for a day that wall where you won't be able to do any seeking to do. And the last thing I'll say about that is and they think, &quot;Gosh, okay, well that must You wake up, you look at sunlight, you guys kids running around. You can exercise.&quot; There are ways of layering in the protocols things every 24 hours that also include other Exercise certainly can include that as well. But I would argue that there is no showing people in your life unless these things are And it's not about becoming soft and cushy, and effective. And I think this for me it seems so simple, he said, &quot;After all the analysis and pouring of the subconscious...&quot; he's a psychiatrist, health is about simple practices, like first So to which I raised my hand and said, &quot;Well, I'm a biologist, after all.&quot; And he said, &quot;Aha. It's basically the things that we were just There's those five things. And so I'm doubling down, I'm tripling down else really happens for very long unless those Tim Ferriss: Question. Of those five, let's just say, if you had be a strong word, but underweighting, that it be and what have you done? What have you added or changed or subtracted? Andrew Huberman: I'll have to pick two. Let's do -- Andrew Huberman: Yeah. The two are movement, really changed the way And actually my whole philosophy on what's it into a week in a way that really works good in one's body all the time. And then the other one is relationships, which 47 now. I've chosen to delay having a family, but But also having done a lot of personal work And then realizing that -- Andrew Huberman: It's a trap door. And then realizing that, I guess here again, is that there were some unresolved core conflicts. And this idea of core conflicts is really, important psychological stuff that people Everyone has them, many people have trauma, an event that fundamentally changes the way function less well in some or many domains Again, I've robbed that definition from Paul I'm far less eloquent than he is in delivering some core conflicts that I needed to resolve. And I'm going whole hog on that, and it's Tim Ferriss: So let's start with perhaps the Movement. What have you implemented? What have you embraced or cut back on in the And I'm very interested in this personally a few of those five to focus on myself in Because I've done a lot of training, let's done a lot of competition and I miss developing And if I take as an assumption that we have move and navigate, ski touring is just one So putting on skins, these are actually, they synthetic, but you put on skins on the bottom way up the mountain with switchbacks, and you ski down, you rinse and repeat. But the experience of being, if you choose get lots of sunlight in the morning and early where you're not too heavily weighting one types of exercise. But I have found this to just be absolutely, revolutionary for my physical and mental well-being. And you also get, in this particular case just do not get in my day-to-day existence So I'm putting that out there just as an example little bit deeper on the movement side. So what have you ended up implementing? Andrew Huberman: Well, first of all, let me being so fundamental to who we are as a species, really what he was -- Sherrington said that, system is movement.&quot; Which I sometimes think about because we often world, but they really don't, except insofar The other way to put this is the evolutionary for the brain.&quot; If you look at brains, it's only what people of their brain. It all boils down to movement or vision, I But when you look cubic millimeter by cubic the circuits devoted to movement and the circuits of the human brain. So that's a lot. The rest is important too, of course. Movement wise. Okay, so we did a guest series. This was a six-episode guest series with Dr. Cal State Fullerton, and his laboratory works the way up to working with competitive athletes. So they'll do deadlifts or boxing or whatever huge range of subjects, and then they'll stab And you've had this done right? This was in The 4-Hour Body. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, I did a muscle biopsy and Science Institute of South Africa. &quot;Tim tartar&quot; is what I called it when it came So good. Turns out my muscle enzymes are, if it's possible Homer Simpson, like citrate synthase and these for endurance which I seem to lack. Andrew Huberman: Bur you're built for explosiveness. Tim Ferriss: I'm built for a very short-duration that I'm embracing ski touring because I am these folks who would be very well-built for Andrew Huberman: Well, we make a good team But I assure you that when I start running I'm not particularly strong, I'm not particularly and very little explosiveness, very little right sport for me. Despite my deep desire, it just didn't happen. But in terms of what I learned from Andy, and keep in mind, these are peer-reviewed laboratories of which he's an expert. And I went deep into this literature with Concurrent training, meaning getting better possible. I did not think that was possible. I'm a big fan of the late Charles Poliquin build muscle. You want to be a runner, be a runner.&quot; And I think at the extremes, that's true. But the data really pointed to the fact that I took a step back from everything I learned series and resculpted my training program for something very specific with the understanding domains of fitness. In fact, the way that Andy puts it, I think, He says techniques and methods are many, but that your body can make. So you're really just trying to create adaptations. Whether or not you do it with a kettlebell machine doesn't really matter. You're trying to create certain adaptations speeds. But that is also true of endurance and running. So what I figured out was that there's an me to target one specific thing each day. Tim Ferriss: What are some of those specific Andrew Huberman: Yeah, endurance, strength, I can talk about why that is. And also, I should mention each one of those simply for you, each one of those days is the other adaptations I'm trying to accomplish. So let me explain in short form, and if you My training week starts on Sunday because Sunday, I make it a focused effort to move I'm thinking endurance. I essentially want to be like a mule. I'm just thinking &quot;Be like a mule.&quot; I actually have this shirt -- of this episode. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, yeah, exactly. I actually have this shirt that I sometimes It's not a black buttoned-down shirt, but its three sloth fingers like Wolverine, and I'm trying to embody the sloth. So what I'll do on that day is, because sometimes life, if I'm on my own, I'll throw on an eight They have these thinner ones now that aren't like you're in law enforcement or you're trying I'm not, never was. But they have these thinner ones that sit I forget the brand name now, but I don't have I'll get it for you, but I really like this And I'll head out for probably a 75-minute And I'll try and nasal breathe the whole time. I'll often listen to a podcast or a book. Sometimes I'll just let my mind drift. That's if I'm on my own. If I'm with other people, what I will do is stuff, usually some water in there too, and And I'll do three or four or five hours of as much as possible. The specific goal of that day is endurance. Just keep going. And what I notice is because of the other 20 minutes, which come at the start, really I either want to go faster, like these little But what's amazing is somewhere in that 25, good. You actually start to adapt to it right then. You kind of go, &quot;Okay, this is about the heart This is about the breathing rate. So this is zone -- physiologically or neurologically or both? Andrew Huberman: I'm glad you mentioned neurologically. I think physiologically, they're the standard You're getting warmer, so joints are more If your cardiovascular system is able to fuel not shuttling too much fuel to specific muscle Because of course, I could be stressed when I could be relaxed, I could be tired, depending But neurologically, what happens is really you're starting to do is you're starting to generators. Central pattern generators are what allow voluntary attention to it. Very different than say, squatting or front you're trying to focus on each rep, fundamentally Tim Ferriss: So it's like the autopilot button Andrew Huberman: That's right. And at that point your mind can really attend And of course, as your body warms up, you're So you actually are getting better and more Now that that's weird. Most exercise doesn't work out. Tim Ferriss: It is weird. But as an intrepid, pseudo-endurance athlete I've done a lot of it in the last six weeks, for everybody. And then you click into a rhythm and you feel Andrew Huberman: Yeah. It's neural, and I think Andy would agree, You're engaging the proper amount of what motor neurons and lower motor neurons. Lower motor neurons reside in the ventral They're the ones that degenerate in ALS. They're the ones that, fortunately most people the muscle fibers. They are directed by upper motor neurons, you to generate voluntary movement. However, the upper motor neurons and the lower pattern generator type circuit if you carry So as you are able to take your mind off of becomes easier. And what you end up finding is that your system steps or jogging, I'm not going excruciatingly But that run or that long-weighted hike accomplishes It checks off the box of the zone two cardio Not all of it for the week, but a lot of it. Tim Ferriss: And for the lay folks out there, but you really don't want to. Andrew Huberman: That's right. Tim Ferriss: As Peter might describe. Peter Attia. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. And Peter's big on doing long Sunday rucks. He throws on a rucksack because he's tougher Tim Ferriss: Well, you're doing the same thing. You're just filling it full of water and other Andrew Huberman: I have a feeling his rucksack Peter is, I've trained with Peter. Peter likes to push himself. These Sunday long, slow jogs or hikes are my body. And I'm convinced that they also carry over the week. But also it just my ability to work longer So that's Sunday, also gets me outside a lot. And oftentimes on Monday, because of the constraints to be outside as much as I would like. So you get a lot of sun and movement on Sunday. You feel pretty terrific on Monday. And let's just earmark what we, or go back state that we're in on Monday has a lot to So I'm trying to optimize for Monday in some Then Monday is, the goal for me is to train First of all, I just like the way that sounds but it also sets up the work week really nicely. Here's why. I'm going to train my legs the way that's is a warmup, and then two to three, maybe Yates. It's not with four straps and all of that. But what we're talking about is warming up or more repetitions than the last time. Tim Ferriss: And just so I'm clear, are we single sets of four different exercises? What are we talking about? Andrew Huberman: Yeah, we're talking about of two exercises per muscle group. And I'll explain what that is in a moment. I should mention that the reason we're training So your large muscle groups, I'm trying to lower body strength and explosiveness. The data that I see on longevity and just and to just feel strong throughout the body So don't skip leg day. Tim Ferriss: Legs and hips, folks. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, exactly. Tim Ferriss: Feed the wolves. Andrew Huberman: It's kind of funny how glutes This is what I heard, glutes are the new biceps. Growing up, this was not the case. It was like, the '90s,. everyone was like hacky sacker dudes with the flowy hair. I wasn't one of those. All the girls liked those guys, a bunch of it was the kind of waif era. I don't know what it is now, it doesn't matter, Having strong legs is great and -- Andrew Huberman: Exactly. Hacky sack. I'm sure that's a great skill for the mind So the '90s are coming back popular in a popular Tim Ferriss: That's huge. Andrew Huberman: Style. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. You see the youngsters with the Nirvana shirts. Andrew Huberman: That's amazing. Tim Ferriss: It's all coming around. Andrew Huberman: Amazing. Tim Ferriss: What was old is once new again. Andrew Huberman: Exactly. Those were good years. So good years, bad clothes. So Monday is really about getting that leg Tim Ferriss: And what exercises do you perform? Andrew Huberman: It's walk in. Oftentimes I'll do calf work because, unlike Tim Ferriss: Oh, I need calf work. That was the weak link in the chain for all last six weeks. Andrew Huberman: I definitely do a lot of So I'll just walk through it, I am really I warm up with tib raises. Training the front -- anterior? Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: Like dorsiflexion, raising your Andrew Huberman: Yeah, so this is a huge addition. My program, I'm a huge fan of Ben Patrick, Instagram. I started doing tib work about two years ago, So tibialis raises, you can do this also leaning against the wall and your feet out in front your toes to the ground, and then lifting Or if you can have a tib raise machine, as I warm up with tib work. Why? Training my tibs, as they're called, definitely could grow calves or getting my calves strong, by training tibs, but more importantly perhaps I always had this right side leaning in pain, for me, anyway, I can run like a beast now. No knee pain, no back pain, no shoulder pain. I can just run and run and run. So training your tibs turns out to be key the, we'll avoid jargon here, bringing your your stride, not having the floppy feet. So if you lay down every night and your toes your tibs are weak. A lot of people with knee issues have weak Tim Ferriss: Well, hold on. So if you're in the bed, you've got your sheets forward, are you sleeping like a G.I. Joe figure with your toes pulled up to your Andrew Huberman: No, I just mean that if your if your feet are flaccid, not good. Tim Ferriss: flaccid toes, folks, red light. Andrew Huberman: A lot of people who run are Ben cued people to this, tib work is great great for the hip, that's all very clear. And I think just a lot of people have overtrained tib work, it would be doing a lot of bicep lot of quad work and not a lot of hamstring You have to work both sides of the limb. And I think our friend Kelly Starrett would Tib work has changed everything for me. Posturally, I have no pain any longer. Tim Ferriss: I just want to lodge a formal look him up, because he is a large man. Andrew Huberman: Very. Tim Ferriss: He's Quadzilla. He's 230, maybe, former high-level competitive I think he celebrated his 40th birthday by and something else, and he's a really good And I just want to say it really upsets me. That he has no discernible physical weaknesses. It's very irritating. Andrew Huberman: And a nice guy. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, and a nice guy. Andrew Huberman: And a nice guy. He's very, very strong. 600-pound deadlift. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, he's a strong unit. Andrew Huberman: He's a beast. Tim Ferriss: So tib work. Andrew Huberman: Tib work. So I start with tib raises, so it's going an eight-rep warmup, and then I'll do three Andy Galpin told me, and the literature supports have shown that for hypertrophy, for muscle can get you hypertrophy if you go to failure I personally like to keep my work resistance I like to train in the more or less the five hypertrophy. And I'm going for a mix of both. So I train tibs, then I do calf sled or standing five to eight, maybe 10 repetitions. Tim Ferriss: Are these sets to failure? Andrew Huberman: These are sets to failure. And long ago I had gift of learning from the I can't budge another micro inch, but I'm I'm trying to keep everything nice and taught at this point. Not because I'm a competitive athlete -- Andrew Huberman: No flaccid feet, yeah. I'm telling you the tib work is a game changer, one who's been teaching people that, yes, He does dunks into back bends and all this And it largely hinges on tib work and quality So I'm training calves, that takes about 10, I try and move relatively quickly through It's only two to three minutes rest, maybe Then I'm weaker in the hamstrings than I am to four working sets of lying leg curls, pretty Tim Ferriss: Lying leg curls meaning on a Andrew Huberman: Yeah, on a machine. Tim Ferriss: Not reverse hamstring? Andrew Huberman: I have a Nautilus machine Not seated, doesn't work for me, just lying move with you to make it easier. No. And maybe the occasional forced rep if somebody's Then I go do two to four sets, but typically incredible exercise. The equipment isn't in every gym, but I'm raises going slow. And this is basically if you were going to is, but now take the ground and rotate it That's what a glute-ham raise really is. It allows you to do a deadlift, but then at So if you think about it that way, you just 90 degrees. Tim Ferriss: We'll get a link to a YouTube, Andrew Huberman: Yeah, exactly. Glute-ham raise is a great lower back, so So then I'm done with calves and hamstrings, extensions, so maybe a warmup and then two for whatever reasons are incredibly painful, quads, and then two or three sets of working Hack squats, heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy. And then I'm done. I'm out. Monday's done. Now this is, again, going back to the overall Tim Ferriss: Why hack squats specifically Andrew Huberman: Back squats, for me, I always coach in the world tell me how to do it better, up with the same thing, and I don't really I'm doing it for strength. Tim Ferriss: You're not doing it for a power Andrew Huberman: No, doing it for strength Aesthetics just because it's some balance. I'm not trying to get huge legs, but I'm 6.1, I sit more or less right there all the time. My body fat goes up and down, might gain five around there. I don't have any interest in being much larger I want to keep my strength, maybe build some And so hack squats allow me to put a lot of between the hip and my back. Tim Ferriss: Can you describe for folks, just this, what is the visual of a hack squat? Andrew Huberman: Hack squat, you're sitting holding the handles up near your ears, and on a 45-degree or, ideally if you can find So it's not a leg press, it's a hack squat. Now for people that don't have access to these, them anymore or just don't keep them around as they're sometimes called, can work where down while holding onto a pole. Tim Ferriss: It's deceptively hard to do if Andrew Huberman: And if you're doing your Tim Ferriss: Great way to stretch your quads Andrew Huberman: Recently our podcast team and it's been a long time since I've been many of these movements translate, as you've And I should say that the sissy squats, a out over your toe. And this is what Ben Patrick has really been land, their knees go out over their toes, Look at parkour, gymnasts -- Andrew Huberman: This whole knee can't pass So you can feel very comfortable and very squats or hack squats that way. And so the whole purpose of that Monday workout, it's get stronger, maintain some size, but Tim Ferriss: And just for people listening to take us six hours to get to Saturday,&quot; this day specifically is because it's so neglected. People do not tend to exercise with a focus benefits are so numerous that I want to just Andrew Huberman: When you look at the literature training, it's not from bicep curls, it's I suppose it could be from things like dips, especially if they're weighted or with rings And so, as I said before, there are two goals. One is to get the legs stronger, the other effect on the body. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, I was just about to say, endocrine/anabolic effect from doing this Andrew Huberman: It's real work. And resting long between the sets, especially minutes, so you start to feel lazy, but you're after the set, sometimes you feel like you're I haven't puked from a leg workout yet, which hard, but I just say that I just don't have Tim Ferriss: Look, as Kelly Starrett would puke into a bucket, but you're not going to if you do them really intensely.&quot; It's going to hurt you every time you sit doing a whole lot of basketball very well. Andrew Huberman: I want strong legs, I want endurance, and I want the cognitive effects. So you get that systemic anabolic effect. There's another practical reason for doing not train again until Thursday. And if you've trained your legs properly, good processes in your brain and body. Tim Ferriss: Made a down payment for the week. Andrew Huberman: You made a bit of a down Also, if you think about the neural circuits I just described for the Monday workout, they're movements and neural circuits required for So the Sunday long workout, they're both legs, legs, of course, but very, very different. Different muscle fiber types, different motor Tim Ferriss: Different range of motion too. Andrew Huberman: Different range of motion And keep in mind the entire leg workout takes of training. Tuesday is very different. Oh, and by the way, Monday is a very heavy Typically, we launch podcasts, I do all my really like doing that, respond to comments, So Monday is heavy work day, so getting the key for me. These days, I don't ever really do resistance in the day. And we won't go into whether or not it's fasted I have a toolkit where I list out some of and I can link to that. Tim Ferriss: I would also say, not to interject, I can't start until I know if it's fasted, the dead cat over my head on Tuesday or Wednesday It's just get started. You've got plenty to get started. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, I do it fasted, but And listen, I usually eat a bit more on the This is great. Sunday night you're putting in your fuel sources There are all sorts of ways this layers together. Tim Ferriss: Cookies. Andrew Huberman: I'm not a cookie guy. Tim Ferriss: I'm just kidding. Andrew Huberman: For me it's like pizza is No cheat days anymore for me however, I haven't I'm actually thinking of going back on The It's got to still work. Tim Ferriss: I said cookies, I'll make a very to be going back onto strict slow carb, and We're not going to spend a lot of time on but it was my last hurrah before locking down So yes, I'm getting back on -- you. Lots of stories about cheat days. My ex-girlfriend, we used to do the cheat myself, we were in couple's therapy and they And she's like, &quot;Well, then on Sunday we're And this therapist was looking at us, laughing the world is this?&quot; But we had a good time with it. She was one of these mutants that could just the next day, and never put on pounds. Tim Ferriss: I know the type. Andrew Huberman: So the Tuesday is very different. Tuesday, I don't want to call it a recovery different. First of all, my legs need recovery, so what heat exposure and deliberate cold exposure. Yes, I do cold showers in the morning first Yes, it is a bad idea to do cold water immersion So just for the record, you don't want to a hypertrophy training because it can blunt It blocks the inflammation, which is exactly hypertrophy. But Tuesday is really about getting the maximum I've done multiple episodes on each one of from you, so thank you, Tim. I do a protocol which is pretty intense, designed of positive, mood-promoting hormones that and just get better at it. So I'll do 20 minutes of sauna, hot sauna. Tim Ferriss: What does hot mean? Andrew Huberman: I'm up to 260 now. But I worked up to that. You can check out the Banya, I'll give a plug in New York. They are amazing. They are incredible. They have a hot Russian sauna. Tim Ferriss: They have very hot sauna. Andrew Huberman: And Archimedes Banya in San A couple of notes about that one, it's clothing I wear my swim trunks. Tim Ferriss: Boo! How are you going to show off those glutes Andrew Huberman: But it is, so just know what optional. And it is in Hunters Point, Bayview, which Tim Ferriss: Yeah, I wouldn't go for a jog. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, don't leave anything San Francisco now. So 20 minutes in the sauna, very hot, three neck, back into the sauna for 20 minutes, minutes, back into the sauna for 20 minutes, minutes. It's work, but it's amazing in the sense that generate all the hormone neurotransmitter get very, very good at tolerating heat and And I should mention, during these times, to books, I'm thinking, I'm putting this work going on there. Then Wednesday, I do one of two things. I'm either going to do a shorter duration so I'm thinking about five minutes of warmup running for me, where I'm just trying to get a fast clip but steady, so I'm not sprint, That's typically what I'll do on Wednesday. Although, if my legs are still a little bit going to go, &quot;Ugh,&quot; they're going to scoff, What do I do? I try to get pushing through the chest and I already got my lower back with the glute-ham presses after a warmup, two to three sets, I like ring dips and dips these days, those sets of those, so chest, shoulders. And I'm going to upset some people here, but it every other week because just I have some easily and I can throw proportions off really But I might do three or four sets of max rep the lowering as well. Tim Ferriss: Now, slow eccentric, four seconds, Andrew Huberman: Yeah, usually about four contracting whatever muscle group. So all of the movements are done trying to as possible on the concentric phase, and then loading it like a spring and then trying to I want strength and I want explosiveness, working in that five to eight rep range. So that's what I call torso because it's chest, in those chins. And I think everyone has a muscle group like a weed, but I want to keep proportions right, And I do train my neck that day as well. I know you wrestled. I can tell very easily looking at somebody if your neck comes down where your jaw is, don't look like a head placed on top of a Laird Hamilton's neck is out to the lobes Danny Way, great skateboarder too, he trains He broke his neck surfing years ago. So having a strong neck, why is that so important? Well, it's important because you want a strong The other thing that I notice that it does train my neck. I just naturally stand more upright, I find not hard for me to look people directly in posture and presence is just better in a chair And I think it's because my head, let's just of the chin towards the chest, that word just You want flaccid feet, you don't want a flaccid Tim Ferriss: How do you work your neck? I've been thinking about it for decades, I I got it on -- neck machine? Tim Ferriss: I was going to get a Hammer or And look, do your homework folks, because get too aggressive too quickly. I bought a four-way neck machine on Amazon I was like, &quot;You know what? Let me try this before spending five grand.&quot; Works great. Nothing fancy, but it works. Andrew Huberman: You have great proportions. Why do I say this? It's not just about aesthetics, it's about, with balanced strength, which is synonymous One of the things that looks ridiculous and with big delts, wide shoulders, long clavicles, -- Andrew Huberman: And they look especially in street clothes, it looks mutant, and not So strong neck is great. Strong neck has helped me also avoid injuries It's life insurance if you do any kind of I've been rear-ended in a car and felt fine, upper spine and lower spine. So I do some neck work at the end. And the way I do it is take a plate, wrap imprint of the weight number on your forehead, in the 10- to 15-repetition range. I'll usually do one light warmup and then Tim Ferriss: How do you hold it on your head? Andrew Huberman: You just hold it with your It also works your oblique somewhat. Tim Ferriss: So you're on a bench or on the Andrew Huberman: On a bench. You have to be careful, especially getting often get injured. And then I'll lie on my stomach, and this put the plate behind my head, again, wrapped You're trying to get your head sitting on because everyone now is bent over in this And no one's nerdy enough, except my good his posture -- shout out to Brian. He does amazing work in breath work and human When he texts, he uses his phone up near his Tim Ferriss: I've seen that. Andrew Huberman: It's so good. He's like, duh, duh, duh. No one else does that, Brian. So the neck work comes at the end, but is And whenever I don't do it for a week or two I start getting postural things you start Tim Ferriss: I find, I don't think it's placebo or maybe it is now, but not initially, fewer mobility also. Especially if you're spending a lot of time My rotation, even though I'm not actively left, right, turning your head, the mobility of the head seems to improve as well for me. And for folks, just one option I want to throw train with someone, manual resistance -- Tim Ferriss: With a towel or just pressure slow style, 10 seconds, 10 seconds is very Andrew Huberman: I can't overstate the importance Now for women who often don't want the aesthetic weights or hand-based resistance. You still want that strength and balance. Some women might want a big neck, but, in put some of this in The 4-Hour Body. Tim Ferriss: Throw a wig on Laird Hamilton, I'm just putting it out there, ladies. Andrew Huberman: In terms of aesthetics, the the most commonly desired female aesthetic trained with a number of women, is excessive and then larger neck. Some people might want that, but in general For guys, I think that neck work, it's so a strength and protection of the joints reason. I will also say this, and anyone who wants it actually increases your confidence. And the reason is when you're upright, you I'm a big believer that the physical stances stances we embody and vice versa. So it's not just about standing up straight, in the eye, it's something that is assisted forward all the time. So this is a real thing from a number of standpoints. So if, for whatever reason, I do the cardio of running, that's what I do, but some people like that, or cycling, or rower, on the Wednesday. Then I'll do that weight workout I just described, So there's some flexibility built into the By the way, the cardiovascular workouts can I always prefer to do them in the morning Then Friday is a really important day because usually only about three minutes of warmup goal is to get my heart rate as high as I Just increasing VO2 max, getting those really My favorite way to do this is I'll get on with the fan, which is not designed to keep folks, and do 20 second on sprint, 10 second Tim Ferriss: Tabata style. Andrew Huberman: Tabata type thing for six And then what I like to do is take a band or something, and I'll squat down and jump, can, but I actually control the eccentric. I'm holding the band as I come down. And so I learned from Peter Attia, I've learned and land is strongly correlated with physical Or you could do broad jump. So you could do a bunch of broad jumps, you showered and out the door to go do my work So it's a really short workout. And then Saturday is the fun one because I the morning, usually it's mid-morning, and rear delts. I'll do another tip and calf workout, a little leg day is coming in two days, and the next So that day is really to round out the smaller And I have a short torso, long arms, and so stronger easily, long arms, but they require dedicated day for that. Same way, warmup plus two to four work sets I always include dips at some point during cables, basic stuff, preacher curls, incline But I just want to backtrack one step because get that VO2 max up. But guess what? It's also designed to indirectly hit the legs. We hit legs on Monday, and they've recovered. We now know that protein synthesis maximizes hours and then starts to taper off. Now, you read that, you hear that a lot, especially to hit a muscle group every 48 hours. But no, you hold onto the protein synthesis, so that Friday sprint on the bike workout indirectly targeting the quads and calves And so you're keeping them online for hypertrophy. So when you hear all this, you might think, we're really talking about is a long hike 90 minutes to three hours. You're talking about an hour workout on Monday sauna and cold on Tuesday, you're talking you're talking about doing some dips and overhead of neck work on Thursday, you're talking about talking about going to the gym for an hour, want to call it what it is, but you could I called it that to Joe Rogan and he was like, And I was like, &quot;Give me an example.&quot; And he's like, &quot;Well, when you're grappling And I was like, &quot;Okay, well, that's you.&quot; But he's absolutely right. Actually, I chipped my tooth really hard once, and you're pulling with your bicep and your my tooth. Keep your head out of the way. Tim Ferriss: Good thing you train your neck. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, this is mostly a falsey, Exactly. Good thing. I could have knocked myself out. But there's a lot of things that a bicep is Joe's absolutely right. But I think that when you look at all of that, do all of that at home. There are ways to do the leg workout even and things. And so that's the schedule. And again, if you think about that schedule, leg strength, cold and heat adaptation, and torso, to keep the torso strong. But here again, and we can say the torso work Then being able to run a couple miles is a And what you find is that if you trained your and the cold and heat really helped too, you your tibs are strong, no floppy feet, no back &quot;Wow, this is great.&quot; And so what I've noticed in the last 24 months and better in each of these areas, and supposedly I'm 47. Attia the other day said, &quot;You and I were in our teens.&quot; I was like, &quot;Speak for yourself. I was getting injured all the time. My body hurt. I was unhappy.&quot; Then again, I was skateboarding then, so I But I find that this routine has really helped slower recovery, that is just me. My nervous system doesn't recover that quickly. And it also embraces the fact that our nervous for different adaptations simultaneously across Now the one cap on everything that's vital, is if you start training for longer than 60 levels go up, you start feeling lousy, you're enough and you don't recover. So keeping the workouts relatively short has And then the final thing is that I'm a scientist interested in being a competitive athlete, I really want to be able to get the most out than I would otherwise when I'm doing cognitive And I'm a big believer that this workout schedule that are wanted or one would want to activate. Perhaps the one thing missing from it is there dynamic movement in multiple planes, I'm not or something, badminton is fun. I'll do an hour of play type stuff, non-competitive, It Away. I think I learned about that book from your Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Andrew Huberman: Charlie -- Andrew Huberman: Having an hour a week where trying to burn calories or accomplish any enjoy your ability to engage in low stakes, type movement where you're very focused, which That's also great, but that's not really exercise. That's play. Tim Ferriss: There's a difference between, talking about provoking adaptations. So I just want to underscore a few things. One is you talked about nervous system or is I just want to make note of that because recovery but not nervous system recovery. And depending on what you're doing, certainly Question on a few things that I just took So Ben Patrick, Knees Over Toes, I might need Andrew Huberman: Oh, yeah, he's terrific. Tim Ferriss: I have questions about tib work, the question that I have. You mentioned Nordic curls in passing. What the hell are Nordic curls? Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Nordics are a great semi-substitute for the The glute-ham raise allows you to fix your floor and go up into a back raise and then It hits the whole posterior chain and the And Nordic curls are when you either brace or you use a lifting belt and strap yourself enough holds your ankles down. And you're lowering down and you're touching Or you can do the Ben Patrick, Ben Bruno. Ben Bruno's another excellent Instagram trainer He trains Justin Timberlake and a bunch of people. Justin Timberlake's not kind of famous. He's famous. And he can do the cookie challenge, which in milk without putting your hands to the Tim Ferriss: That's incredibly hard. Andrew Huberman: It's interesting. Ben is deceptively strong because he's not BenBrunoTraining is his handle. Tim Ferriss: Cue break dancers. You want to see some strong people who are B-Boys, B-Girls. Andrew Huberman: So Nordic curls are great. There are now machines that -- or an apparatus something, do Nordic curls. Even a portable one for when you travel that Ben Patrick, AKA Knees Over Toes Guy, he has I confess, I didn't subscribe to ATG because But a bunch of those portable equipment type And I think he's really changed the way that works. He insists that he can get me dunking a basketball, Maybe that should be the challenge before Tim Ferriss: So Nordic curls, unbeknownst this particular exercise, but I have a piece garage and is for this exact exercise. Andrew Huberman: I think if I had to pick But if I had to pick three exercises to do raise/Nordic curl, something for the posterior I could throw in some leg raises too, or something I could make it a multi-compound movement If that's the only thing I could do, that's Put me in a small prison cell, knock on wood, That's what I ask for. Tim Ferriss: Scientist/podcaster/inmate. Andrew Huberman: Hopefully not. Listen, we talked last time, I've been behind It's not an experience I want to recreate. Tim Ferriss: Not fun. Andrew Huberman: Not fun. Tim Ferriss: Not an indoorist. Andrew Huberman: No. Tim Ferriss: So on the tib work side, this qualified, but one of the challenges that And my dorsiflexion is actually seemingly, Ankle mobility, also pretty decent. Although the left ankle's been broken so many But I have done training with this fellow records in Olympic weightlifting, or he held. Andrew Huberman: Also deceptively strong. Tim Ferriss: Incredibly strong. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I met him and his wife. Tim Ferriss: She also has world records in And just to give you an idea, folks, he's 67, 68 now, and he can do a full barbell snatch, which are those balance boards on top of a Andrew Huberman: Sounds very dangerous. Tim Ferriss: And I don't recommend trying But he's quite a physical specimen. So the point of all of that is that my ankle My dorsiflexion strength seems pretty good, are about to explode. Someone could just pop them like a balloon And I've not figured out a way to address Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I vote tib work. I used to have terrible shin splints. Tim Ferriss: Okay. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Terrible shin splints, and also pain in my shiners as they're called, from doing a little and college and thinking I was being smart like I heard they did it over in Thailand. Just made a mess of my shins. The tib raises have changed everything. Also, I used to think I had flat feet, &quot;I That's the source of my problem.&quot; And I'd do all this toe strengthening, foot All these people in the yoga community in train your feet.&quot; Turned out, I don't have flat feet. It turns out that my tibs were weak and so So for me, it's been a game changer. Also, you don't need any specialized equipment. There is that movement of resting your shoulders So you're in a plank, you make your body rigid, out in front of you, and then you're touching up. And you're just doing that while you're on You do 25 or 30 repetitions of that, your Tim Ferriss: So it's as if you're basically You can't articulate any of your joints minus And you're just standing, what, like a foot -- Tim Ferriss: Getting your shoulders to the a bookend. And then moving your toes. Andrew Huberman: Yup. Tim Ferriss: All right. I'm in. Count me in. I am also, in the, apparently, I think this flat feet part. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I was convinced I have flat feet. You want to hear something really wild that to do with metabolism and the obesity crisis? Tim Ferriss: Wild metabolism and obesity crisis, Andrew Huberman: And tibs. There's a very important paper published from they had people sitting for a couple of hours keep their toe on the ground and they would Think about the jumpy kid in class or when They're doing it slowly and they're measuring flatter muscle of the calf underneath the Turns out that muscle is very unique. It does not use the same fuel sources as other It's not so much a glycogen-dependent muscle. It is designed, of course, to carry you very muscle. They had people do this while seated for a uptake and they looked at overall insulin meaningful improvement in insulin sensitivity. Now, this is not about caloric burn. This is about essentially doing exercise while Now I put out some stuff about this on social &quot;Oh, that's ridiculous.&quot; First of all, they call it a soleus pushup You're like, &quot;That's a seated calf raise.&quot; But most people don't know what a seated calf So gym rats, you're only laughing to yourselves. I throw myself in that. I mean, it's true. Tim Ferriss: Most of the internet. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, exactly. Exactly. But what's very interesting is this is something to improve their metabolic status. Of course, they should also exercise, but this works. Were we quote/unquote &quot;designed&quot; to walk around I don't know. I wasn't consulted at the design phase, but than we probably are now. But it's very interesting that -- this muscle's It's only one percent of the body's total percent -- well, over, it depends on the energy expenditure during the day. Tim Ferriss: That's insane. Andrew Huberman: So if you're on a plane like this thing, it's actually a meaningful -- it's of its metabolic impact, is meaningful. I find that really interesting and perhaps if you're unwilling to try that, then your Tim Ferriss: So have a few extra cups of coffee, Bounce those knees. Andrew Huberman: Exactly. And don't get on kids about bouncing their I was one such a kid. Tim Ferriss: All right, so we've covered a fundamental pillars that you've doubled down Anything that you've changed your mind on? Andrew Huberman: Well, one of them was the feet. I also believed that we couldn't obtain multiple I'm convinced we can because I track my numbers. I'm not super neurotic, but I keep a handwritten Or at the end of the day, I generally can do, or on a run. And I'm improving over time. So that's great. I thought I would have had hit my peak ability much better. Tim Ferriss: How do you track, if you track Are you looking at wattage? Are you looking at anything? Or is it more subjective? Andrew Huberman: I tend to add another round I just do a little bit more work or go a little I tend like to do things pretty subjectively My calendar will say, for instance, for legs, And I'll put anywhere from level one to level Level 10 would be the workout with forced I rarely, if ever, do those. But typically I'm trying to make that workout And generally, the shorter workouts are the Occasionally, just because of schedules or run and it'll end up being a 15-minute jog Lame,&quot; or something like that, like I didn't And then push a little bit harder the next So I'm kind of my own coach. I'm sort of observing myself rather than getting But I'm always trying to put a little bit with the repetition, or add a set or a rep Tim Ferriss: So let's hone in on sleep, my depending on the quality. But last we spoke, I remember you spoke about, and there may have been one or two or two Andrew Huberman: Theanine. Tim Ferriss: -- Lucky Charms in there. Andrew Huberman: Theanine. Tim Ferriss: Right, theanine. Andrew Huberman: Yep. Tim Ferriss: Are those still the holy trinity that you've added, things you've subtracted? What is your current cocktail? With the understanding that as much as people light exposure in the morning, exercise, all sleep. Andrew Huberman: I still use the same sleep So it's magnesium threonate, spelled T-H-R-E-O-N-A-T-E, And I've added every once in a while, I'll Myo-inositol has a rich literature associated Tim Ferriss: Interesting name. Myo as in muscle? Why myo? M-Y-O. Andrew Huberman: That's a good question. Yeah, it must be. Tim Ferriss: It must be. Andrew Huberman: So it's amino acid, but it literature on inositol for improving insulin There's also something called D-chiro inositol, We can talk about that. But what I've added in the 900 milligrams many people, wake up at three in the morning And although there's a simple solution to works, and I'll share it in a moment -- Andrew Huberman: -- it helps me fall back And I am tracking my sleep. Because I sleep on an Eight Sleep. And that has good sleep tracking ability. What Attia has taught me, that a lot of the they can be quite good and are quite good, ones, they can get movement wrong because Whereas the Eight Sleep seems to really capture ratios really well. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, I use both Eight Sleep Andrew Huberman: Great. Yeah. So the myo-inositol, it has helped quite a way to not wake up to urinate so much in the is it turns out that it's not just how much not you need to urinate because that's sort It's also how quickly you ingest that fluid fluid is absorbed, it actually, in the kidney, the way it signals to the bladder is that urgently. So if you have your final beverage of the For morning hydration, the opposite is true. You actually want to gulp down quite a lot You can absorb quite a lot of liquid in the I'm reading this really nerdy review in Nature, rhythms and the kidney. Your kidney is not the same organ first thing So this is what circadian biologists have is this way. But you want to hydrate pretty heavily first you can titrate off that liquid. Tim Ferriss: So I'm going to ask you to pick So you've got the magnesium threonate, L-theanine, that is effectively chamomile tea on steroids? Andrew Huberman: Mm-hmm. High concentration chamomile extract. Tim Ferriss: All right, got it. And then the myo-inositol -- Tim Ferriss: All right. Andrew Huberman: 900 milligrams, which it's dose for insulin sensitivity, and for depression, a day. But it's a mild sedative. So I don't know how people get away with that. I'll take the four of those. I will occasionally be so fired -- workout, yeah. Andrew Huberman: Occasionally, I'm so tired or on the nightstand. So I don't think I'm dependent on them in Tim Ferriss: The question is: if you could Andrew Huberman: Oh, easy. Mag threonate and apigenin. Tim Ferriss: Okay. Yeah. Got it. Andrew Huberman: Theanine is not going to or nightmares because it will increase how So night walkers, night terrors, that kind For those of you that have sleepwalking, night Tim Ferriss: Skinwalkers, beware. Andrew Huberman: Sorry. And I didn't mean to interrupt you. This is something I'm working, my colleague a sign of enthusiasm for the conversation. Tim Ferriss: Oh, yeah, no. Andrew Huberman: So I apologize. Tim Ferriss: Oh, are you kidding? I'm not going to throw stones in my glass I interrupt constantly. But you were talking about the kidneys, you as it is at night. This is what circadian biologists have been coming home to roost. And these papers that you're reading, or maybe And you were saying sipping water at night Gulping in the morning, and I threw your train Andrew Huberman: All good. I mean, basically you want to look at the the second half of your day. Morning part of your day, you want sunlight Why? It increases cortisol 50 percent above baseline. You want cortisol high early in the day and Not because it disrupts sleep, but because Screws up your immune system to have it late-shifted. Beautiful work from Bob Sapolsky and David shown that. So hydration, caffeine, sunlight, movement, in the day. You really want what are called the catecholamines, And you want cortisol, which is a glucocorticoid, that's what's going to give you energy, focus, the day. And then you want to taper that stuff off Now the recent data have shown that if you -- why would you want to do that? Well, rapid eye movement sleep is when you memories. This is your -- friend Matt Walker. Andrew Huberman: Right. How do you get more rapid eye movement sleep? High-intensity interval training early part different stages of sleep as well, compared Although running will do it as well. Tim Ferriss: Why is that? Andrew Huberman: I don't know. I think it has to do with the central pattern That high-intensity interval training, when so it's repetitive, but it's not repetitive brain circuits. And it's going to deplete different neurotransmitter It's going to engage the endorphin system Tim Ferriss: I wonder if it's also a study to get your slaves, AKA, like, undergrads university setting to sit on a bike. So if you have a hundred studies with bikes maybe it's a selection bias in some respect of studies. Andrew Huberman: I don't know. I don't know. I love bicycling when I can be upright. Think your Dutch bicycle, moving through a know shuts down the amygdala to some extent, It's beautiful. You see things, you see people. How anyone in the world could want to be hunched as one is on a road bike. I have zero minus one interest in doing that. Sounds horrible. And then I heard it gives you all these prostate from the pain. They now put grooves in the seats because This is terrible. Tim Ferriss: Turns out having a pool cue shoved good for you. Andrew Huberman: No, hunched over, like a And I realize that I have many friends who there's really an allure there. Moving fast through space feels really good, a bicycle recreationally to me makes sense, or whatever. But to me, cycling hunched over like that But that's just me. Tim Ferriss: So let's go from the dreadful We mentioned a couple of supplements, and my own curiosity here. And there's a list here. So on the omegas, because we discussed omega-3 I'm so curious to know. Because I do observe, seemingly, a very consistent However, I've tried multiple brands and I've certificates of analysis to make sure that I end up getting mild nausea after a week Maybe if I'm taking, I might be getting the like that. Andrew Huberman: In liquid or capsule form? Tim Ferriss: In capsule form. Andrew Huberman: With food or without food? Tim Ferriss: That's a great question. I probably wasn't even paying attention, although So probably with food. Or maybe just before food. I'd be curious to know anyone on the internet, anything similar. Because I see the benefits and then let's get this low-grade nausea, almost like a motion And then I stop for a washout period and then And I'm like, &quot;God.&quot; Andrew Huberman: So you know it's the fish Tim Ferriss: A bummer. Yeah. Andrew Huberman: There's obviously some great For liquid, the Carlson's brands, the ones fishy, it's going to be the most cost-effective It has to be refrigerated after opening, but way. And here we do have a supplement affiliate just the truth. Tim Ferriss: What is your dosage target for Andrew Huberman: Minimum one gram per day Tim Ferriss: Okay. Andrew Huberman: Minimum, sometimes more. Tim Ferriss: Do you take it in one dose or Andrew Huberman: It ends up being three capsules be a midday meal. And then I do take a tablespoon of the Carlson's actually like it on my oatmeal with salt. Tim Ferriss: Oh. Andrew Huberman: It tastes good. Tim Ferriss: When I've spent time -- Tim Ferriss: -- in Iceland and Scandinavia Andrew Huberman: It's delicious. Tim Ferriss: -- I've had these little shots I can do that. But on top of the oatmeal? Andrew Huberman: No, I'm telling you. It's really good. And I hate sardines. I despise sardines. I despise anything smoked flavored. I'm really boring. And I absolutely loathe anchovies, like fishy I don't even really like eating fish. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, I can't eat anchovies. Still like sardines. Andrew Huberman: I like sushi. I like sushi. That's about it. But even there, I'm boring. Tim Ferriss: You spoiled brat. Andrew Huberman: I don't even uni. I'm a good person to go to sushi with because I just want the yellowtail and the -- Andrew Huberman: Maguro. Yeah. Tim Ferriss: Least offensive fish available. Andrew Huberman: I'm boring. At least I'm not ordering chicken teriyaki. Tim Ferriss: All right. And just so people are hearing it from you same thing. What are the primary benefits that you observe Either or, with the intake of say, one gram Andrew Huberman: Mood. Antidepressant effects. Absolutely clear. And there are so many clinical trials supporting doses of antidepressants or even coming off Of course, always check with your psychiatrist intake above one gram per day, even as high Tim Ferriss: Okay. So question for you. I remember last time we spoke, we chatted Let's just say, some people refer to it as fat, and a handful of other things. What is the mechanism of action by which the Is that known or is -- It's probably two-pronged. One, the EPA is a fundamental structural lipid in particular, that release neuromodulators That's one. The other is that these neuropod cells in pointed out, sugar, essential fatty acids, to the dopamine centers of the brain. So your gut is subconsciously signaling to into your system. And when you have a lot of flavorful food in nutrients, it sets that system totally dopamine for sure, from the taste of the food signal. And by the way, this is not woo-woo biology. This is coming from the laboratories of Diego Charles Zucker, who's a Howard Hughes medical this for sugar sensing. And a number of other laboratories have shown from the vagus to the dopamine centers of kinds of foods. However, when these neurons, these neuropod seeing the nutrients they want to see, they the brain, but they also are signaling satiety. And that's really what you want. So in many ways, we are a essential amino It just also so happens that at least in the This is also why people who increase their per day of EPAs, or who take small amounts You're activating the same neurons. You're giving the alternative stimulus. Tim Ferriss: So the L-glutamine is vis-a-vis Andrew Huberman: Likely. That hasn't been directly established, but of certain essential amino acids can reduce And whenever people say, &quot;How do I kill my Well, it's not a conventional approach, but or essential amino acid powder, which sometimes and fruity taste and mix it in there. People will find, oh, yeah, I don't actually In my opinion, a little bit of dark chocolate So I don't want to give the impression that But there are people who very much feel a So giving these neurons the alternative stimulus the same dopamine release. This makes sense evolutionarily, why we would amino acids. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, totally. Andrew Huberman: This is also why, the non-meat is very satisfying despite the fact that it There are people who feel quite good, whether about, but who feel quite good just eating Now, I'm not one of those people. But if you had to pick a food that would keep of your body and would give you enough fats if you had to feed your children, you would You would not give them a sweet potato. And if you look at the amount of food that fatty meat in particular, not gross fatty you're quite satisfied after a certain amount So I'm not pushing people towards a carnivore I don't follow a carnivore diet. But I do think that our nervous system, from system that subconsciously and lets our brain and now I can stop eating if I want to.&quot; Tim Ferriss: So we're going to leapfrog from I think the move for me might be to go to Try that. I mean, who the hell knows. The fish oil. Just to try something, even if the expiration Maybe I just got a couple of bad batches. Who knows? Andrew Huberman: Or maybe it's the capsules There's so many things going into these capsule of that. But gut health overall, it's hard for most In addition to all the things to avoid, too that source, it's pretty clear that one serving enough. That you need three or four servings of low-sugar So natto for people that can stomach it, A good Bulgarian yogurt. I like these really sour Bulgarian yogurts. They're so good. Tim Ferriss: Bulgarian yogurt? Andrew Huberman: Oh, there's this amazing You have to try this stuff. It is so good. Except they don't have -- the full-fat one Tim Ferriss: What makes the Bulgarian yogurt Andrew Huberman: I wish I could remember the Tim Ferriss: We'll put it in the show notes. Andrew Huberman: It's so good. But I don't want people to -- they run out. Because they only put two or three of these And I'm buying those two or three, of the But it's hard for most people to get that And so most people just don't do it. And then high-dose probiotics are very expensive, So that's why I think the AG1 checks off a But if people can ingest low-sugar fermented really well. So, say, the data from Justin Sonnenburg's And Chris Gardner's lab. Tim Ferriss: Enjoy your kilo a day of natto. Tell me how that goes. Andrew Huberman: That stuff is so slimy. Tim Ferriss: It's so wicked. There are two things that -- yeah, I've lived and so on, there are two, well, let's see, hilarious to watch foreigners try to eat. Natto is definitely number one. It's just like spiderweb, cobweb, stink. It's so gnarly. I can eat it, but it's not my favorite, even Umeboshi and other types of pickled super, one. And then I would say uni also. Especially before it was really making the The first time a foreigner would go over -- Tim Ferriss: Just get the seagull poo on top It's so hardcore. Uni is what I'm talking about. Just consistency wise, it's very, very similar. Andrew Huberman: It just feels like it's a Tim Ferriss: Yeah. It's not my favorite. Andrew Huberman: But people love it. Tim Ferriss: Some people do. Andrew Huberman: People are told that it's Tim Ferriss: That's the best way to sell anything. Andrew Huberman: That's right, the best way That's right. Tim Ferriss: I wanted to ask you, because Fadogia agrestis, if I'm pronouncing that But the one I want to ask you about first correctly, Rhodiola rosea. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, Rhodiola rosea. Tim Ferriss: All right. Andrew Huberman: Impressive supplement. Tim Ferriss: Please tell me more about this, athletes over the years, of people using this Andrew Huberman: So Rhodiola rosea is a really this category of what people call adaptogens. But normally when you hear adaptogens, first Doesn't actually mean anything specific. It means an ability to adapt generally, or No one's really pinpointed what that means. But typically the adaptogens are going to So, for instance, Ashwagandha is a very potent There's some evidence it can indirectly increase of cortisol, since those are in the same synthesis Ashwagandha is an adaptogen. Ashwagandha, because it lowers cortisol, should because you want cortisol high. Ashwagandha as a cortisol-suppressing adaptogen, amounts, not low amounts, but in high amounts, The whole goal of exercise is to trigger the Or one of the goals. Rhodiola rosea is a very interesting compound reduces perceived effort and allows for greater pointed out a moment ago, but it does not So, 200 milligrams of Rhodiola rosea prior even on one of your ski tours, you will notice and your perceived effort is much lower. It's kind of striking. Tim Ferriss: What is it doing? Andrew Huberman: Now, this is interesting. It's kind of striking how after the workout That perhaps is the reason I started, perhaps I could train harder, but then I suffered Especially if I ate a big meal. I no longer experience that if I take Rhodiola The effects of it last about four hours. So what's happening during that workout, it's system by reducing the total amount of adrenaline epinephrine during high intensity effort or So, what this effectively means is, in principle, effort without the same amount of energy depleting I mean, epinephrine, norepinephrine help you afterwards. Always. And so if you can generate the same amount of adrenaline or norepinephrine, then you're It also seems to catalyze recovery better. I would not take it more often than just before studies showing that the effects of it can day every day. Tim Ferriss: Now, would that be true for, Let's just say someone's taking it before Would they want to cycle off of that? How would you think about cycling if recommended? Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Low dose of Ashwagandha, 25, 50 milligrams I actually think AG one has low dose of Ashwagandha But when people are taking Ashwagandha to or both for a period in life, I'd say after off. You really don't want to suppress cortisol for that. Rhodiola rosea is probably the best addition I've added in a long time, and it's really I mean, I think so much so that people could And it really does seem to work the first If it doesn't work for you the first time, night's sleep, you're doing everything in Rhodiola rosea and you don't really notice the dose slightly and give it another go. Tim Ferriss: And what was the dosage range? Andrew Huberman: 200 milligrams is what I'll And I found that to be really striking. Now, I'm not going to take that before a long I might, but chances are I'm not going to I'm going to do it before a hit workout. Again, of course, I'm mainly doing it to make go do other things really hard, too. Again, as not a competitive athlete, I loathe then feeling like I gave everything to that much energy or focus to give to the other And I think most people are like that. Tim Ferriss: Are you still taking the tongkat And for those who are not familiar, because our last conversation, but just in brief, Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Tongkat ali is an Indonesian ginseng. There's a Malaysian version too, but you want effects, which are, it's known to decrease testosterone, which is important in both men It turns out in women there's more testosterone woman, then there is estrogen. Peter Attia taught me this. If you normalize for nanograms per deciliter, healthy women do. So, testosterone is associated with libido, et cetera, in men and women. Probably the best way to describe testosterone's Tongkat ali frees up more testosterone, mild others, increases energy, will increase feelings And typically the dosages are 400 milligrams or without food taken early in the day, before energy.You don't want to disrupt your sleep. There are a number of good sources of it. We can provide links to a couple of those And Fadogia agrestis is a Nigerian shrub. It's taken from a Nigerian shrub and it stimulates is going to come out of the pituitary. And in women, will stimulate anything that in the ovary. So typically estrogen, maybe even testosterone And in men, it will increase testosterone luteinizing hormone, maybe subtle increase This is important. Men hear that something increases estrogen Well, keep in mind that if you flatline your or crushing their estrogen, their libido is Their cognitive ability will be diminished. Estrogen is important in both men and women. Tim Ferriss: It's also cardioprotective. Andrew Huberman: Cardioprotective, the endothelial We think of our blood vessels and our arteries tubes, imagine Silly Putty kind of rolled and then rolled up to comprise those tubes. So it's many, many endothelial cells that And the flexibility of those tubes is very Obviously, you don't want them rigid, you And estrogen's important for some of that the endothelial cells. Fadogia agrestis is typically taken in dosages without food. Doesn't seem to matter if it's early day, There's some evidence in rats it can be toxic But that's in very, very high concentrations. It's interesting, the number of studies on have greatly expanded since our last conversation. And especially for tongkat ali, there's quite Safety margins are good within the dosage I've heard of people taking up to a gram a That just makes me cringe. I think taking herbal compounds in very high what, because these things can trigger immune 400 milligrams of tongkat ali, 300 to 600 fine. I don't cycle them and never have. Some people cycle the Fadogia because they're Tim Ferriss: Why not? Andrew Huberman: Why don't I cycle them? Because they just keep working. Tim Ferriss: I mean, Louie Simmons could have Andrew Huberman: Yeah. A couple of reasons. I do blood work twice a year. Liver enzymes are included there. We can talk about fertility perhaps if you The last year, because of my age and the fact of the fact that I do want them at some point, figure of speech, for sperm analysis, including increase sperm numbers and motility and quality, I got really -- If you're making your swimmers world class, Andrew Huberman: Well, right. It's all about readiness, I suppose. So, what is it in the SEAL teams, they say, to your level of your preparation.&quot; Tim Ferriss: &quot;You do not rise to the level preparation.&quot; That's actually a quote from Archilochus, also. But yes, also widely used in the special forces Andrew Huberman: Yeah. So, I've been monitoring sperm parameters, IVF someday with somebody, this kind of thing, And because we're talking about -- and I've cetera as it relates to vitality and fertility, of those things. And so I don't cycle them because I haven't Some people choose to just take a week off days on, two days off. People should do what makes them comfortable. You'll notice, males will notice an effective size somewhat and density, and that's just hormone is going to stimulate -- avocado pits hanging between the legs. Andrew Huberman: It's going to depend on where related to increasing luteinizing hormone as something like taking hCG, human chorionic Tim Ferriss: Well, that I was going to ask, would probably cycle at some point or maybe I don't know. You tell me. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, I've done experiments I think you have too. Tim Ferriss: I have too. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I mean, it definitely will increase sperm Tim Ferriss: Significantly, hCG is essentially luteinizing hormone. There's actually a movement within the testosterone to go too far down this path, but so-called interested in what I call TAT, which is augmentation I think it's a safe -- talking before. Andrew Huberman: Nomenclature. Tim Ferriss: Like Patagonia and Toothfish goes to testosterone augmentation therapy. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I mean, I think every male should be aware cypionate or otherwise is going to suppress However, there are people that want to do I think one of the goals for most people is lot of people who don't want to be bodybuilders even estrogen's a steroid. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, sure. Andrew Huberman: And cortisol is a corticosteroids. But to be high end of normal range, right? High end of normal. So if the range is 300 nanograms deciliter it depends. Being somewhere between 600 and 900 I think And tongkat ali and Fadogia agrestis, I think, want to pursue these other more aggressive Tim Ferriss: Well, tongkat ali is particularly have very high range total testosterone, but binding globulin is high. Andrew Huberman: Which is itself is not necessarily The 900 milligrams myo-inositol can also increase that aren't entirely clear. There are also some other ways if people want Shilajit, right? Fulvic acid, which is Shilajit, is a mineral It's used in Ayurvedic medicine. Tim Ferriss: I thought that was a 1980s lead Andrew Huberman: It stimulates the release So you have LH and FSH coming out of the pituitary via the leydig cells of the testes. The FSH is going to stimulate spermatogenesis protein, which is the protein that the testosterone to more sperm at risk of -- on another podcast, especially not yours, male and female fertility that goes through cycle, and then all the dos and do-nots for now or in the future, or who do not wish to as a proxy for vitality. Which is something, by the way, I have to Years ago, you said basically if you optimize Again, I want to just thank you because that's sage way to think about optimizing for vitality. So, it's not just about wanting to have kids, systems that they're tuning. Tim Ferriss: Super helpful proxy. Super helpful. In this case, what do you mean by vitality? Andrew Huberman: Waking up feeling well enough to complete your day and to be able to move and relaxed. I mean, if you think about that kind of eliminating the moment, of course it is a component, setting to me, is the definition of mental health: to relax and restore your system and to feel to move from driven to reflective and these So many people we know, I don't want to give anyway. I just said it was the Bay Area, successful We knew a lot of those. Or people that can't seem to get enough energy So you want both. That's vitality to me. And this is getting kind of Eastern philosophy, I'm always eager to learn here. But when you think about chi, or kind of dopamine, things in the world, including offspring, birth relationships, birth podcasts, whatever of having some idea in mind and trying to of fear setting become really relevant here, And so vitality has a lot to do with the ability if not a fast upward spiral, at least a slow And certainly not a slow downward spiral or Tim Ferriss: I'll take any of the upward spirals. Andrew Huberman: I'm around a lot of graduate early success, like publishing a paper early around the whole concept of effort thereafter. You see this in dating and relationships. You see how an early failure can set people And so I think having drive comes from the It's dopamine, epinephrine, norepinephrine. And sure you need the serotonergic systems things out, but in the absence of that get I wasn't consulted with the design phase, allows any animal or human to move toward Tim Ferriss: I'm going to ask you yet again, will satisfy my own curiosity. Omegas, tongkat ali, Fadogia agrestis, and Which would you pick? Andrew Huberman: Tongkat ali and Rhodiola Tim Ferriss: Okay. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, especially since -- I thought the EPA would be a shoe-in. Andrew Huberman: Oh, I'm sorry. EPA was included there? Tim Ferriss: Yes. Andrew Huberman: Sorry, sorry. Tim Ferriss: Omegas, tongkat ali, Fadogia Andrew Huberman: I apologize. So, then it would be omegas and tongkat ali. Tim Ferriss: Okay. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, if I think about fundamental, are hard to get from food, but that represent needles in the right direction, it's going threshold of EPAs. So, omegas. It's also going to be anything that moves which is going to be tongkat ali. Now, of course, doing all the other things movement, nutrients, sunlight, all that. In fact, there's a really wonderful study 20 minutes, three times a week, of sun exposure their shirts, or if it was women, there wore three times a week, significant increases And this was afternoon sun. It wasn't morning sun. Increases in free testosterone and estrogen Also, if you chart out the amount of free that aren't really far north, you're going in men and women, toward the summer -- spring, So, we are somewhat seasonal, and some people so that sunlight thing is real and the mechanism sunlight. He's just saying sunlight again,&quot; is that the skin, signal through this, for you nerds pituitary to signal luteinizing hormone and It's so interesting because what we think and a place to put tattoos, and earrings, organ. The skin is a hormone-producing organ, hence Tim Ferriss: A lot of fat cells too, which Andrew Huberman: Definitely the omegas and Rhodiola rosea is great to enhance workouts. Fadogia is definitely a boost on the hormone I have a friend who [was] single. Now, he's in a great relationship. We can't say it was because the Fadogia, but got to stop taking this stuff.&quot; Because obviously he was flying solo at that He was like, &quot;This is just really, it's really Tim Ferriss: Intrusive because he was just Andrew Huberman: I don't know. I don't know if we want to go here. There's this whole online -- libido? Andrew Huberman: Well, there's this whole and things like that. He's not part of that community. But there's this idea that -- well, we're I mean, there's this idea that -- Andrew Huberman: If you look in the journals in sexual health and urological health. There's a ton of interesting stuff on pelvic This stuff just isn't often discussed. What you find is that masturbation for women of well-being, of mood, of immune system function, pleasure, et cetera, all increase. If you look at the data in men in terms of masturbation to the point of ejaculation in to pursue relationships. They're home watching porn. We have to be very careful with statements that, because that's not true. It's going to be gender -- well, we should Biological sex-dependent because that's clearer We'll just leave it at that. And then there is this whole notion that a porn-addicted and masturbation-addicted, but out on a date, or learn how to navigate healthy, They're not doing neck work, so they can't I'm just kidding. Tim Ferriss: They've got flaccid feet and Andrew Huberman: And here, I'm not trying We're really just talking about a radical over the last 10 years because of the accessibility to the dopamine system. Here, I'm not trying to be evangelical or I'm just saying these are serious neurotransmitter/hormone making themselves sated enough to not actually milestones toward the transition between young Birth rates are low, dating is low, people A few people are having a lot more sex, so are comfortable in social interactions. Anyway, we don't want to go down that path But these are deeply wired systems. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. To they who have much, much will be given. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. So, for those of you willing to date and find relationships, Fadogia. Tim Ferriss: Thank you, Fadogia. So, before we move on, I do want to ask you before we started recording, psychedelics that, or any commentary you'd like to add. But before we get to that, since you were can go to the Dances with Wolves episode where we're talking about a number of tools in the way to phrase it, goosing the system. These are ways to augment certain endocrine say, of free versus bounded testosterone, Where did you end up after doing your research that we should be subtracting rather than Because it's hard, for me, as someone who health, to find the time or even maybe just noise with all that, because there's a lot There's a lot of nonsense out there. Where did you land with what is important, Andrew Huberman: So, for cutting through that It is a long movie. Tim Ferriss: People should -- well, hey, it for the length. I think people should listen to this podcast, Andrew Huberman: No, it was designed for individuals And also in particular for women who are interested Most women don't know the cutoff after which embryos. So, in California, if you're 42 years old You might meet someone later and decide you After 42, I think it's 42 and a half, you The eggs are, on average, are just too aged Males, if you want to be a sperm donor, ideally want to do IVF someday. Now, there is a significant increase in the for the father. So, as you go from 30 to 35 to 40, the sperm small overall. So it's not something you can really point Or &quot;It's the egg,&quot; for that matter. Okay. Now, dos and don'ts. We can now easily look back to the beginning sleep on a regular basis, sunlight, keeping of that is going to support sperm health and No question about that. It's also clear that getting sufficient Omega-3 and egg health. I'll just point out that if there were one in terms of egg quality, which is a morphological for sperm quality, which is going to be shape, You don't want dead sperm. There are always going to be some in a sample and the way the spermatogenesis cycle go. But you want forwardly motile sperm. The other ones are called twitchers, so they They can actually take twitchers and force ICSI. But in general, the greater number of forward Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Andrew Huberman: I'm actually swimming them But they are -- podcast date. Andrew Huberman: Exactly. Can be greatly increased by supplementation So egg health and sperm health greatly enhanced Pretty remarkable results there. Injectable L-carnitine of about one mil, one Now that has to be prescribed by a doctor. Tim Ferriss: And that's IM? That's intramuscular. Yeah. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Oral capsules are available over the counter. Then you have to get up to four or five grams Tim Ferriss: Oh, wow. I was going to ask. Yeah. Andrew Huberman: And that can increase TMAO cardiovascular health because of the way it's But you can offset that by taking 600 milligrams Okay. Smoking cigarettes, vaping cigarettes -- Andrew Huberman: Terrible for sperm, terrible Smoking cannabis, vaping cannabis, also terrible, People don't like to hear that. 15 percent of women, I can't believe this had to check my eyes, but 15 percent ingest percent. Probably not a good idea. Now, a lot of people say, &quot;Oh, I smoke weed You never know how healthy your children would've You just never know. I'm not saying your children are unhealthy, Tim Ferriss: There're also going to be, there crack every week and never slept for 14 days My kids are great.&quot; And you're like, &quot;Okay. Just because you happen to be the one mutant...&quot; Andrew Huberman: Right, yeah. If you want to optimize for sperm health. Tim Ferriss: If you could thread that needle. Andrew Huberman: Exactly. Tim Ferriss: Doesn't mean you're a good model. Andrew Huberman: Exactly. So L-carnitine can really help. Avoid smoking anything. The issue of tinctures and edibles is a different I think the big wow for me was something, which is that in 2015, I taught a class at, neural circuits and health and disease, and cellphones inhibit sperm health and, or testosterone The data were very mixed, frankly. There were essentially two good studies in putting it under a rat's cage, and then looking sperm health, et cetera. One showed increases in the testosterone. The other showed decreases. So it was a disappointing situation. So I would present both. Now, there is an extensive meta-analysis. I can send you this for the show notes if of studies. Tim Ferriss: I'll add it to the next reprint Andrew Huberman: And it very convincingly pocket, so this isn't putting it to your head, of you, but keeping it on and in one's pocket, you're using cellular. Decreases sperm quality, which means forward et cetera. Even ejaculate volume to some extent, N lowers surprising, giving the known heat effects So even though it doesn't feel hot to the Sperm don't like heat. In fact, the most promising male contraceptive like a cuff that goes around the vas deferens, urethra that allows the ejaculate to leave I mean, a sauna, it's not a great form of but it will reduce your total number of motile When I go in the sauna, because I do hope Tim Ferriss: 75 percent is a lot. Andrew Huberman: -- I do hope to conceive the sauna and I actually put a cold pack at When the sauna's really hot, it's also, it It's a little painful, but you definitely But I'm chuckling too, but heat is part of out, yes. And here people are going to think I'm a crazy the EMFs, that business is real. Now is it so real that it's giving us gliomas? Unclear. I'm not going to go there. The data aren't in, but it is very clear that heat are combining to reduce sperm quality, So it's a simple thing. Turn off your phone completely, or even better, If you have to put it in a pocket, put it Even better would be to put it in a shoulder And I'm a weirdo perhaps, but I don't like But that's also because I don't like holding We don't know very much about the effects tissues of the body, but we now know a lot quality, and it's not a good picture for the Tim Ferriss: Where does airplane mode fit In terms of between on and off. I mean, does it prevent or mitigate some of Andrew Huberman: It seems to, it seems to. Here's what's really scary about this meta-analysis. Their conclusion is that the total amount is not a strong determinant. That it's not all or none, but that the threshold effects is pretty low. So again, here we're talking about a don't, And so it's pretty straightforward. Don't keep the phone in your front pocket testosterone production. Now, why is sperm health and testosterone And you say, well, duh, it's because testosterone But if you're not interested in conceiving But remember that the two types of cells, the testes combine testosterone in the androgen-binding So anytime you're seeing a reduction in sperm, of reduction in androgen-binding protein, around is also not having the effect on that In other words, the testes and the ovaries hormones into the body to go have effects, it's self-amplifying. And so this just seems like such a straightforward And you said this back in, when was The 4-Hour Tim Ferriss: Came out in 2010. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. And I remember you and Poliquin and a few in your pocket.&quot; And I remember lecturing to about 400 students by my read, about half of the guys in the they heard this. I think young people who aren't thinking about the ones that should be most concerned. Now, it is true, as they told us in high school, one sperm!&quot; But in order to get that one sperm to the conception, there's a lot of territory that There's a lot of chemical environments that You want the healthiest sperm. Tim Ferriss: So I would say also having gone embryos, even though you can say it only takes the odds in your favor, which means you need a good count of non-crippled sperm. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I mean, sperm analysis, it can be a humbling 100 percent motile, forwardly motile. You learn a lot about everyone, males and they're doing well, what they're doing less I think. I think for women, one of the big surprises alcohol to diminish egg quality, beyond two really start to see reductions in egg quality on diminished sleep and changes in stress And so again, some people will be more resilient People always like to make jokes about how et cetera. I think that in general, if women are having 28 days long or 35 days long, is less important Women in general tend to know more about their But if I could go back in time to my 30s, And I feel good about where I've got my parameters, you just realize that freezing sperm, freezing makes sense if you have the appropriate pairing for those wishing to conceive when you have And anyway, for those challenged in that area, emotionally and financially expensive battle. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. I will say much to my surprise that within of course, but going through the IVF or at because I have banked, starting probably -- unfortunately, starting around 2010 or 2012. Andrew Huberman: Oh, okay, quite a while ago. Tim Ferriss: Banking sperm. Sadly, there was actually a technical issue because they were bought by some larger conglomerate, But the point I was going to make is that amounts of L-carnitine, adding in a few other my sperm quality is actually better, seemingly is shocking. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I mean, again, if one is doing the right things, probably in the domain of sexual health too. I think that's a misconception that men peak 80s! Excuse me. Tim Ferriss: I was like, &quot;Sweet! Thank God!&quot; Andrew Huberman: At 18. I've looked at testosterone levels as a function this, on behavioral endocrinology, and there levels similar to men in their 20s and 30s. Highly individual, depends a ton on how much getting, how little alcohol and nicotine, but they're bringing into their system, exposure And we always think of BPAs and receipts. They are a problem. Handling receipts, not good, printed receipts, Tim Ferriss: Wait a second, hold on. Andrew Huberman: But that's the major source Tim Ferriss: No shit. Andrew Huberman: Oh, yeah. Printed receipts. Tim Ferriss: I had no idea. So BPAs, I always think, all right, cans, Receipts? Andrew Huberman: Receipts. Tim Ferriss: Why the hell are there so many Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Shanna Swan, who's done a lot of the critical urogenital distance, which is a marker of genitals and the anus are closer together humans. Phthalate exposure. BPAs in particular is progressively decreasing In a somewhat contradictory way there's a Michael Eisenberg's lab, he's a urologist, flaccid, here it is again, flaccid, oh, no, in the last 30 years. But testosterone and sperm counts are going Tim Ferriss: I don't know. Andrew Huberman: There's a really interesting I haven't read the method section -- Because it makes, though, superficial sense are just taking a nose dive, you need to get Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Closer to the cervix, cervical opening. Those data are a little hard to explain, but That study was just published and yeah, he'd Tim Ferriss: So the balls are getting closer This is what happens apparently. Not to get too technical. Andrew Huberman: No. Well, I think people will understand that most people to digest or think about. But we think about BPAs. So receipts, probably more than plastics and But also if you look at the most that people and that are impairing their endocrine system to be in rural areas because of pesticides, So we think, oh, people living in cities, from the bodegas in New York City. No, you're talking about rural areas of the Tim Ferriss: Airborne. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, airborne pesticides. Tim Ferriss: So I thought, I immediately went Andrew Huberman: Dust cropping and this kind Tim Ferriss: Wow. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I was over in Copenhagen to give a talk last Tim Ferriss: I would have totally whiffed I would not have gone -- I would've gone I would've thought contaminants. Andrew Huberman: Me too. And Shanna Swan, who's, I can't remember if she's definitely at one of the big medical but she's been the one really focusing on of it and was thinking, oh, that's crazy conspiracy And no, there's real data funded by the NIH. So I think that avoiding plastics and things But I think handling of receipts, especially and avoiding pesticides. And then alcohol, again, not trying to rain a week is when you start seeing some negative I did a long episode on this. By the way, I drink the occasional drink every I like white tequilas, things of that number. Tim Ferriss: Number-two most-shared podcast Andrew Huberman: I did not expect that at Tim Ferriss: &quot;What Alcohol Does to Your Body, Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I did not expect it to have that kind of traction. There's no agenda there. I think a lot of people think that I'm in I have deep respect for that community. But no, I've never had a problem with alcohol It's never been my thing. So there was no agenda whatsoever. I think that alcohol's a toxin, you're essentially the way it creates its effects. Look, it can be enjoyed. I also think that if people are going to drink pay more attention to the other things that Nutrients, sunlight, exercise, sleep, et cetera. So I'm not trying to say what people should They should just know what they're doing. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. And talking about how the preceding 24 hours to the next 24 hours. A friend of mine, I won't give him credit was quoting someone else, so it doesn't really But he said, &quot;Alcohol is borrowing happiness And I was like, yeah, that's a good way to Andrew Huberman: Yeah. And I've never tried cocaine, but from what 10 minutes from now. I spoke to a guy recently who is a former like? And he said, &quot;Let me just explain it this By the way, this is not a direct quote. I'm quoting somebody else. He said that the first time he did cocaine, terrible. And when can I get more?&quot; Tim Ferriss: Oh, God. Andrew Huberman: So that the gestalt of the we know exists. The dopamine system drops below baseline. I'm too afraid to try cocaine. And especially nowadays with the fentanyl So many street drugs. Tim Ferriss: I know two people, they were Otherwise, very responsible folks, but they parties and decided to do cocaine. They each did one line, not a copious amount. These were not cocaine users. Both of them immediately collapsed on the One died and one ended up in a coma for a Andrew Huberman: Fentanyl. Tim Ferriss: Fentanyl. My best friend growing up, also was given, Died. Fell asleep, didn't wake up. So be very careful out there, folks. Fentanyl is no joke. And there are other things as well, but many, those that, at face value, you would think Andrew Huberman: Like Ambien. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, yeah. Andrew Huberman: Or cocaine. I mean, why they would cut fentanyl, which like cocaine makes no sense to me. Tim Ferriss: And yet, that's what's happening. So be careful out there, folks. So to move from cocaine to maybe a lesser a second. So cannabis in, I'm curious to know, because say, there may be trade-offs, but benefits edible, I could say cannabis, but in this where state governments allow this, say 2.5 With CBD, it just takes too high -- I mean, it for it to subjectively help with that. What are the trade-offs, if any, with dosages If you're aware? Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Depends on who you are. So I did an episode on cannabis, I also had of these freaks of nature. He's a triple board-certified psychiatrist, a lot on -- Andrew Huberman: Yeah, a real underachiever. Doing a lot on combination of psychedelics Talked about cannabis and I did a solo episode was think about, read about, and talk to people Here's the story with cannabis. As you pointed out, it's going to be the ratio And for the real aficionados out there, and me know. Tim Ferriss: Oh, they are. Andrew Huberman: There's also the terpenes. They're going to be the lemon-like terpenes in these things that are also going to matter. And then also it's going to be smoking, vaping, So here's the deal. Smoking or vaping anything is bad. Nicotine or cannabis, or worse for you than Let's just move that off to the side. High-THC-concentration cannabis, of which is dangerous for the following reason. And there, I just pissed off some people. But first of all, it does have therapeutic maybe even some mental health effects, ability But for, in particular, young males in their cannabis, there is a much greater, 4X increase that don't ever reverse. In fact, when I spoke to the leading researcher probability that a lot of what we see as street schizophrenic, was likely triggered by high-dose Now, I'm not trying to return us to the 1960s of thing. It is clear that cannabis has therapeutic can be a problem. At the dosage you described, 2.5 milligrams, Tim Ferriss: Psychologically speaking. Andrew Huberman: Psychologically speaking. Tim Ferriss: And I mean, I could be on 2.5, it would not be discernible. Andrew Huberman: Sub-perceptible dose. It's like a microdose. Tim Ferriss: I would feel it, but it would Andrew Huberman: Now, the pure CBD cannabis So-called Charlotte's Web, I think is what I'm told, is a powerful anti-epileptic. In fact, parents of epileptic kids move to Web CBD cannabis. In my mind, that should be available legally no psychoactive effects. There are a few perhaps, so it's really that important. The age of the user, whether or not there's We might as well be talking about psychedelics. Tim Ferriss: We might as well be talking about a second to say a few things. Number one, I don't categorize MDMA as a psychedelic. We may get to that, but just for a number fancy, reasons, I don't classify that as a And I would actually categorize high THC content And it has become, I would just say the standard, multiple of what anyone might have been used It is almost beyond belief. And I do know of one direct example. This is the brother of an acquaintance who which is chronic, short-term, but chronic and I should say in fairness, that classical schizophrenic symptoms in those who would So it's not limited to THC, but it is, I think, that it's just cannabis. And I think that's a mistake. They can be so powerfully psychoactive. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. It's interesting how the proponents of cannabis, medicine, including a lot of MDs, always say Which to me is just a ridiculous argument. I mean, to say that something is not as bad one or the other. I think that cannabis has been very beneficial so-called critical period of brain plasticity. So older than 25, they need some way to quote, They'll do an edible on the weekend, this That is not what we're talking about in terms We're talking about kids, 12, 13, 14, taking super high-potency, THC-containing cannabis feeling like it was a really good time, doing And I've seen this over and over again. Their parents reach out to me often, in fact, And then you hear about this person being They're demotivated, they're claiming ADHD. They're basically a stoner who relies on cannabis in the last five years, or certainly has not And here I'm sympathetic. By the way, you're listening to somebody who We covered that in the last podcast, so for But I think I do worry a lot about these super I worry about super high-potency anything. I mean, I worry about, in the realm of hormone ali, not Dianabol. In the realm of augmenting mood and focus, cannabis taken in a youth, to 300 milligrams This is night and day, right. It's chemical augmentation of a completely So I think that it's clear that no cannabis any cannabis. Is occasionally used for an adult going to Probably not. Probably not. Tim Ferriss: I will also say, add to that Number one, I am deeply interested in the of its constituent parts. I think it is a very undervalued plant from And I think it is severely underestimated Just the standard available, particularly of any number of strains, Colorado, et cetera. To believe that you are using something of if it contains a lot of THC, is a mistake. So I would just say, consider it on par with And just be informed and be cautious about I do think that there are probably some really And I will add, just for people listening, has been recommended to me for sleep and have It probably depends on the specific variety that is a product predominantly not of spike glucose levels, but rather rumination, THC keys in very low doses. But let's segue from that to psychedelics. So how has your thinking, any observations, over the last few years? Andrew Huberman: My beliefs and stance, and changed in the last 24 months. This last week, Stanford Magazine, which is goes out to many more people than just who it's a very nice bound magazine of the kind On the cover and inside, there's a feature I could not believe it at first, but it is It's not telling you how to do them, but it Now here, they're broadly defining psychedelics. So the classic psychedelics like psilocybin, Chemical structures, how they're used, the benefits, considerations, and risks. For all of those drugs, plus ketamine, plus I was just shocked, positively shocked because 10 years ago, a conversation like this would've my career, at least as a university professor. My understanding is that thanks to the incredible specific laboratories, Matthew Johnson's laboratory, laboratory, and thanks to the philanthropy to the public education efforts of people towards legalization of MDMA as administered psychologist in the US. Psilocybin is probably a longer road, but Why am I framing it this way? Well, I definitely have a -- I'll just be In high school, I took LSD recreationally Had not good experiences. The experiences were far too long. 11, 15 hours. I might have spent my senior prom in an elevator. Tim Ferriss: May or may not, cannot confirm Andrew Huberman: No, my junior prom. My senior prom was a different story that do this. I actually strongly regret doing that at a I did not know what I was doing. I didn't know the sourcing. It was a terrible idea. Terrible idea. Tim Ferriss: Even riskier now. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. And keep in mind, folks, I was not a star It took a lot of years to get my act together. Talked about this before on Tim's podcast, So you know, that certainly did not help and I tried psilocybin recreationally a few times, As an adult, not shy about the fact that I physician-guided sessions for trauma using I've found it immensely beneficial. I'm happy to talk about how each one of those Again, this is with a physician as part of So what I know now is completely different just based on the legality, but in discussions colleague of mine and friend of yours and profiles on things like MDMA are actually I was taught that MDMA was neurotoxic. Why was I taught that? Well, there's a paper published in Science neurotoxic effects. Turns out, what were they looking at? Methamphetamine. Tim Ferriss: Oops, retraction. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, retraction. Except that never made the major headlines. Tim Ferriss: That never makes it. Andrew Huberman: Okay, so then you look at Here, I'm just going to hit the high points. Because it is not my work, it's the work of at UCSF. Intractable depression. People who are suicidally depressed, nothing Talk therapy doesn't work, antidepressants TMS doesn't work. Do two high-dose, so it's 25 milligrams of of mushrooms. But -- milligrams of psilocybin, synthetic psilocybin Let's just say, a Terence McKenna heroic dose I mean, you're getting enough for escape velocity. Andrew Huberman: Okay. In upwards of 60 percent, maybe 70 percent substantial and ongoing relief. That's an amazing result. So much so that the big pharma has moved in, to extract the benefits of these drugs that Instead of raising interesting questions about is really the trigger for the antidepressant not, that's a whole ball of wax. And really, I'm not qualified to parse that. That's really the domain of Robin and the of issues. So my stance nowadays is, there is a compound profiles. Very, very high, certainly for psilocybin. That, under the appropriate guidance and supervision phase, one or two dosages of this stuff, yes, a phase of deep introspection. This is also, I learned, essential. There are two components that I learned that One, you have to be in the eye mask. Observing things in your external environment introspective/antidepressant effects later. That's interesting to me. It's not just about what you see, what you It's really about going inward, this kind Tim Ferriss: Yeah. It's also important to standardize for trials. Right? You can't have people looking at all sorts Somebody's watching Finding Nemo, another Andrew Huberman: Right, exactly. And then the other thing was, I learned from a key component. Now, they've never teased out music/no music. But having music that starts as he described approaching music, then instrumentals, which in the eye mask, and then some transition of all this, and guiding some of the kind I find this incredibly interesting. And again, I would've not felt safe talking years ago. Keep in mind that in the late '60s, early Stanford mainly that were fired, or at least this. And now Stanford Magazine itself is printing And this is also, I'll use this as an opportunity Because it's really about the listeners. Our Huberman Lab podcast is free on all the But we do have a premium channel. I'm not trying to solicit it here, but the and things of that sort, transcripts are available dollars for exciting work. And we have a donor that's been very generous And we're giving money only to studies working And two of the major areas that we're supporting doing, and Nolan in particular, to combine and these sorts of things. Tim Ferriss: Oh, that's great. I didn't know that about the premium option. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, that's really what Tim Ferriss: Yeah, that's great. Andrew Huberman: And this is, again, I'm going People are going to think that I'm just here text all the time anyway. Because this is yet an another example where reached out to your connects, you were very had worked for you and what you'd been observing. And I am absolutely clear, I've said this When we look back in five years, 10 years, subset of individuals for whom the transition hippie communities, carpet flyers, everything compounds for treating psychiatric illness, Roland's going to be on that list. Matthew's going to be on that list. Pollan's going to be on that list. Robin's going to be on that list. And Nolan, I think, is going to be on that There's going to be a small subset of people money, it takes focus, it takes a bravery, something that has been looked at as just meaningful. So yeah, we're just, all I'm trying to do channel. That's what we've been doing to pump into So I mean, you can tell I'm super excited What I see happening now is that soon, MDMA countless numbers of people out there that And I don't mean just take MDMA and have a I mean, people developing empathy for themselves. I mean, people really working through the they had no control over, that sets this transgenerational I mean, really, you've used the language to These compounds are going to bend the arc And if people out there are listening and and it's very precarious.&quot; I do not know a single major, let's just call we're talking about people at kind of billionaire-level hyperfunctional in their life. We're not telling you about mystic creatives. We're talking about people who, I don't want already knows this is true. Because they've all done this stuff already. And I was kind of late to the train. Because I had such a terrible experience in dead, suicide, drug addicts in jail, wrecked I had so many challenges taking myself from a trajectory within academia and taking good no drugs. I don't even put psychedelics in the category And here I'm lumping MDMA in there, provided who can guide this stuff. It's been immensely beneficial for me. Tim Ferriss: What were your different sessions Andrew Huberman: The first one I can just Waves of -- a lot of shaking. At the beginning of the session, I walked from the neck up. I could feel things from the waist down, but I left that session feeling completely comfortable in tune with my emotions. Far more comfortable being, having emotions. Far less afraid of what emotions might do inside or from outside. I felt, as a consequence, I felt much braver And I felt a kind of a healthy adaptive level can hijack my internal emotions. And even if they do, I'll be okay. And that was a significant thing. The second session, very different. I expected everything as I did in the first, Was one of deep, deep, deep acceptance around had neglected me. Or just did not do what they needed to do. Or that I felt a lot of, and you might be It's hard because I can still sense the ways but mostly because it seems so senseless to And yet I have truly zero resent. I look for it often, to just check myself No resent, complete forgiveness, which has And then the third session was interesting. Third session was a higher dose. I had never taken the booster, the MAPS booster. Took the booster, and I lay completely still And it was very introspective. And I think I left that session, and I still by the way, I feel I've maintained years later The third session, which was more recent, up what I can only describe as boundaries. That other people can have emotions and experiences I tend to be pretty affiliative. I think that came out of an early, especially out of an early need to feel some sense of I would've liked from my biological family. And there have been times when I've been unable distinct from, and my emotions are distinct of empathic blurring sometimes. And I felt like that was just sealed right And mind you, each time I went into these things. Losing my mind, having a heart attack. Now granted, if you have heart issues, tell It is an amphetamine in there. But I was afraid of all the standard stuff. Each time I felt like the window on introspection And each time I just felt like I got better Which, in my mind, was always a very selfish I always thought self-care is selfish. Even working out, I used to hide working out Because I thought no academic goes to the And I really liked doing that, but I realized taking care of my physical body. But I think that things have changed now. So the third session was very meaningful for something up. Where I go, okay, I'm good. Things can happen around me, and I'm not going my well-being. Of course, I still have a lot in there, and And Robin Carhart-Harris said to me recently, psychedelic. Because you don't have the empathogen that's to see whatever darkness still exists within And I thought, oh, goodness. But now I am -- Andrew Huberman: I know. So you hear about people, is it calling to I'm afraid to do psilocybin for that reason. I definitely worked hard to suppress some But the fact that I'm still a bit afraid of it. Tim Ferriss: Well, it also, I think means honest place. If someone has absolutely no concerns or misgivings you are playing with psychological nuclear Andrew Huberman: Yeah, revealing the unconscious. I mean, I didn't even know what psychedelic revealing the unconscious mind. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, mind manifesting. Andrew Huberman: And I still do extensive I look at that as just like going to the gym. I'm fortunate that my insurance can help pay understand not everybody can. But I still feel that if we don't actually in our head, how can we really trust that Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Or just representing reality to our benefit, Right? Because we're perceiving but also constructing And sometimes if you think your glasses are you need to take them off and look at them. There are very few ways to do that with your There are very few tools that allow you to And I would recommend for folks if they are forthcoming with describing your experiences, can help with say, complex PTSD. And why it has become such a focal point for I do recommend the Netflix, How to Change with based on the book of the same name. And specifically, the MDMA episode I thought Andrew Huberman: I need to see that, still. Tim Ferriss: It's very well done, and includes subjects. And there's also a documentary that I helped of Compassion. This was probably four or five years ago, Production value is going to be a bit lower first. But there are a number of forthcoming books A lot of good stuff happening. Andrew Huberman: It's exciting. Tim Ferriss: In terms of investigation, there There are very non-trivial risks. And that is part of the reason why the fundamental like, I have to mention Roland because he Roland Griffiths, and Robin, and Nolan and Because there's the commercialization, there's non-psychedelic options. And I think that they hold promise in certain However, I do firmly fall into the camp that effects. And many other physiological, measurable effects that we document in trials. But I am firmly in the camp that the content Andrew Huberman: Robin and I and Nolan and 22-hour long psychedelic journey, no hallucinations into very vivid imagery of previous experiences. That doesn't interest me so much, it seems It's going to be hard also to do clinical As Robin pointed out, one of the reasons why or MDMA is because the sessions are four to With some aftercare LSD, double or triple And of course, we should point out that street with fentanyl. So the sourcing here must be through MAPS. I think they're the only ones that actually I know people out there will be like, &quot;I know But nowadays I think people need to be exceedingly Tim Ferriss: Yeah, there's a great -- I just There is an organization called DanceSafe, provides kits. Because I know that you know can tell kids, you're married.&quot; They're going to have sex anyway. So I recognize people who are listening are or it will be a game of telephone. It'll be from five different, 10 different, theirs. DanceSafe has kits. I'm not recommending that you use drugs in anyway. There are kits you can purchase which will So at the very least do that type of due diligence. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, yeah. So you asked how do I feel about these compounds stance changed? Complete 180. Complete 180. I'm super curious. I'm super excited. And least of all for me, I'm excited about all around. But I'm most excited for the millions and there. Billions of people certainly have trauma, in terms of daily mood and basic functioning I mean, there are psilocybin trials for fibromyalgia, illness is anorexia. Of course, people with bipolar or schizophrenia, propensity for exacerbating psychosis or for But I think we are heading into really interesting And a year or two ago, I would've thought, chute. Something's going to happen and the whole I think it was the event that we were both Island. It's an incredible group that you're associated special operations community who are doing and then working with Nolan Williams to look And we saw Governor Rick Perry there, a pretty Tim Ferriss: Yeah, he interviewed Rick and About as far apart, politically, as you can Andrew Huberman: And then Rick Doblin, who full of special operators that he'd been a War. And I thought, wow, if he doesn't get killed In other words, polar extremes politically. Standing there talking about psychedelics depression, trauma, offsetting the certain Talking about, I think I heard Rick Perry I almost fell out of my chair. I mean, this is super exciting. And it's super exciting because, the only sometimes describes things. There's certain things for which there's a that done properly -- and he wasn't referring particular, but there's so much goodness that The amount of goodness that could come out care, therapy, and potentially psychedelic I mean, just imagine the magnitude of the That's the kind of stuff that gets chills And you just think, well, gosh, but the scale financially. But enough has happened now that at least very well happen. And again, to clarify, Paul Conti wasn't talking He just has this, occasionally he'll say something health. And occasionally he'll say something like, And I love the sound of that because it sounds, so real. I mean, waking up and feeling good enough some hardship of course from time to time, try again. Good enough to have a rough run through a all your money and go bankrupt and come back. That's the stuff of real life. And I think that there's so many so-called more sort of lives of despair out there. And I think there's seriously the opportunity Tim Ferriss: High leverage, very high leverage. I'm excited to see where it goes. And I would tell people also, don't be shy In the sense that, there will be every possible therapies to fit into existing healthcare. And I do think there's upside to that. Not everyone is going to be able to afford medical care with a session that lasts 18 Or whatever it is, 12 hours, let's just say some people with LSD. However, if you see a company that's saying psychedelic therapy because it lasts 15 minutes, And also just because it's 15 minutes Earth-time So just be cautious with that. The removal of psychedelic effects also makes with current healthcare practitioners and Andrew Huberman: Or for kids. Tim Ferriss: Or for kids, right. So you say, if you take generic ketamine, but some of the sort of slight molecular changes doses with nasal sprays. I do think that, at least for me, and I may compounds, in relatively few sessions, have experiences that have -- I'm not going to or potential, but extremely high durability. We're talking about the order of years. So I think people should be skeptical of companies these. Although that could be applicable to certain criteria because they can't take higher doses But they might be able to take very, very Which wouldn't impart the perhaps content say, serotonin type 2A receptors, but intracellularly, I would recommend if people want to keep up from UC Berkeley is fantastic. That's sort of a news bulletin summary on If you want a good overview, I think How to If you want to know how some psychotherapists oldie but a goodie, The Healing Journey by Even if you just buy it for the introduction, So a lot of good resources out there. Andrew, we've covered a lot of ground. Andrew Huberman: We have. Tim Ferriss: And it's so nice to spend time We're going to grab some dinner. Is there anything that you would like to add, like to make before we wrap up? Andrew Huberman: No. At one point we had thought we might cover going to point people to the great series Tim Ferriss: I did an episode with Chris Hutchins about podcasting, and I said, &quot;You know what? I get asked this all the time. Let's just record a podcast and then I can Andrew Huberman: Perfect. Well, my whole team listened to it. My whole team listened to it, and talked about whether or not we were doing things right. That was about a year ago, and things are So I'll just point people to that episode. Hopefully you can link to that episode because We thought, yes, yes. And oops, we better be doing that. No, I really just want to extend my gratitude I know I've mentioned it over and over. And I'm sure some listeners are probably like, But I would not be podcasting were it not final nudge. And also, I've just gleaned so much valuable and learned so much from you. So again, for me, it's like pure delight to I feel very honored and I'm really grateful And I hope you'll come on the Huberman Lab Tim Ferriss: Oh, I will. Absolutely. Andrew Huberman: I can't wait. Tim Ferriss: Need to make a trip to SoCal. Thanks for saying all that, it really means And it has been a fucking blast to watch you It's really been fun to see the podcast do Then also lead into other types of snowball learned for studies, vis-a-vis the premium And keep it up, man. I am certainly learning a lot and taking notes You can see the notes in front of me. It may not be visible on video, but I've been as I always do when I listen to you, listen Whether it's on your podcast or in person. So people can find you, hubermanlab.com. We will link to YouTube, Instagram, Twitter, And I encourage people to subscribe. Check it out. And thank you, Andrew. And to everybody listening, we will have links vest that we'll figure out in the show notes You can just search Andrew or Huberman, H-U-B-E-R-M-A-N, So until next time, just be a bit kinder than And pay attention to those fundamentals, those All good things come from paying attention And as always, thanks for tuning in.