&gt;&gt; MERRILL: I'm Douglas Merrill. I'm a VP note I have a PhD in Cognitive Science. In a half fairly but superlatively sighting you the record every time Steven and I have argued case this time as well. Steven is the Johnstone I believe. Is that roughly correct? He recently that's okay just to make it shorter. I asked in particular and he wants me to definitely me to call out one thing, which is that he most 100 Most Influential People of All Time, me to mention that he appeared on Colbert great, great honor to introduce one of the how human mind works, Steven Pinker. pleasure and honor to be here. This old wood elephant is a reminder that any complex subject true for a subject as complex as human nature. of the belief and behavior across the world's defer. Biology can document how the process to wire the brain. Psychology, my own field, laboratory studies, and even fiction can illuminate and plots that obsess people in their myths give you the view from language: what kind and social relations from words and how we into thought, swearing as a window into emotion, And in each case, I'll start with a puzzle feature of the human mind using specific examples us are familiar. But examples that have close an overall logic that can be found in all a window into thought. And the puzzle I will by Richard Lederer called &quot;Crazy English&quot; to marvel at the unique lunacy of a language and in which you fill in a form by filling it is really after light? Things that we claim by, not under the water and ground.&quot; So the physical world in such crazy ways. And the is a theory of physics embedded in our language: concept of matter in our nouns, a concept a matter in our nouns, a concept of time in our verbs. That understanding the intuitive the quirks of language itself but the mental lives. So, let's start off with space. How a reference location or coordinate frame? system of prepositions where every proposition distance in the up-down, left-right and front-back of pitch, roll and yaw. Needless to say, no is digitized. Languages make distinctions out, on versus under. Which is why Groucho I'd be on the other side of you.&quot; Also scale term across to refer to an ant walking across And the interpretation of the word &quot;there&quot; depending on whether the person uttering it shape is schematic. In reality, all objects But language idealizes them as essentially So we've got a line which courses a 1-dimentional, with a little width flashing it out, and a but with a finite thickness flashing it out. 2-dimentional or a slab also construed as This idealized geometry governs are used of &quot;along&quot; requires an essentially 1-dimentional line or along the road or along the beam, along the ball which sounds a little anomalous. So we don't refer to a wire as a cylinder cylinder, a short fat one even though geometrically we ignore certain dimensions as insubstantial dimensions. And I think it goes into our overall to what else, as when a child says, &quot;I don't looks like audience.&quot; That is not the eight sixty-four Crayon box where the crayons are of an auditorium. A fourth quirk is that the themselves. And this is something you may my colleague who I understood stands--spoke refer to the 1-D boundary of a 2-D surface. the edge of the plate, even if we can't see like &quot;end&quot; which is the boundary either of 1-D. And you could even cut the end off a to be impossible but we conceive of the end the mystery of why we say, &quot;underwater&quot; and by water or ground. It's because the word of the 3-D volume, not just the 3-D volume So why is the language of space so crazy? divide up space into regions with different of that comes from a story that I clipped rescued from frozen pond dies. A woman who water for 90 minutes died yesterday. The Lincoln the caller who reported the accident and the The rescue workers believed that a woman had left the rescuers combing the woods to find distinction between &quot;on&quot; and &quot;through&quot; in death even though it involved just a couple in language. Language distinguishes stuff matter into four categories. There are countable sauce; plurals as in many apples; and collections different kinds of matter as different frames why we can look at the same mass of little collection of individuals or as gravel, an about the person who can't see the forest &quot;Why does a man with hair on his head have Why is the language of substance so crazy? on how to package and quantify the continuous we see that is at the supermarket where chunks be priced per item, which is what a count noun does; or by the dozen, which is what same mindset that we apply to packaging matter concepts. So just as we have the distinction between many opinions as if they were discrete mass. We do the same thing to happenings in the same way that we package the continuum ask you, how many events took place in the is there was one event, because a single plan the realization of a plan. Another answer You can demarcate time by salient physical pointless semantic nitpicking or hairsplitting, because the lease holder for the World Trade them to 3.5 billion dollars per destructive to gain three and half billion. If it comprised And in a number of court cases tied up for in semantics. So if anyone says, &quot;How much is $3.5 billion. Well, this brings me to the us the time in many ways is conceived like as if there's a kind of &quot;time-stuff&quot; that except we call them events. We see this in deadline is coming,&quot; or &quot;we're approaching that children make like, &quot;Can I have any reading as if events were stretched out in front of tense. Now, verb tense, in many ways follows of space and matter in the case of prepositions time is relative. That is, no language has an hour, nor for locations in time like November in English into three regions to find relative located in the specious present, an interval temporal distinctions. It's the basic unit a term from William James, and it refers to action like a handshake, a quick decision channel surfing and decide whether to click memory to a line of poetry, and to a musical Fifth which we don't perceive as just one motif. Then there's the past stretching backwards ago back to the big bang is treated as identical could say, &quot;I've had a wonderful evening, And then, there's the future until eternity, now until the heat death of the universe all in time, what I just referred to, but shapes is, how a happening begins, unfolds, and ends. schematically. We conceive of some happenings any crisp beginning or end, such as, the verb, momentaneous or a punctate, such as to swat cross the street have no crisp beginning, achieved. In this case, you get to the other by verbs can also be mentally packaged. In which just refers to the stuff generically word &quot;one&quot; as in one beer, turned a mass noun stretch of time like &quot;shake it&quot; and with the accomplishment that ends at a defined boundary up to completion. Likewise, we can take &quot;wring ends, and give an endpoint with the particle it's dry. And that is why, a house can burn form by filling it out. Finally, the boundary just as with space. Just as I can cut off impossible, I can start the end of my talk of end as simply the instant of termination. after light? Well, dark is--refers not just of the interval of darkness, and it's exactly we can say &quot;underwater&quot; when the thing is time so crazy? Well, we identify locations relative to the moment of speaking have different a fancy-shmancy way of putting it would be that's packed into our tense system. It's that present tense corresponds to our own as you're alive and awake and aware, and are is not just an interval in time, but that and unchangeable. As in a report of the Scott where investigators noted that Peterson used and unborn son before their bodies were found, past tense betrayed his knowledge of what The future conversely we conceive of is not is unknowable, hypothetical, and willable. fight on the beaches. We shall fight on the and in the streets. We shall fight in the ambiguous whether he was simply making a prediction or whether he was making a declaration of and the future tense in English and many other finally, we turn to causality of language can be summarized in this diagram, that is, it move or change. The psychologist, Phillip how this works. He had computer animations. physically swung the door open; in the other the door open. If you ask people, &quot;Did Sarah say yes. If you then express causality inside Then in the case where she manhandled the more circuitous, they say no. Why is the language events are the ones that are most likely to for which we can hold people responsible. an episode in American History in 1881, which is fuzzy, so is our sense of moral and legal waiting for a train in a Baltimore Station, shots into him. Now, the bullets missed his have been fatal even in Garfield's time. However, practices of the day, which included probing him through this rectum instead of through for three months before finally succumbing murder trial, he said--the assassin said, The jury was unpersuaded and Guiteau hanged, of the life and death consequences of the as a window into cognition, there's a theory of space in terms of places and object and matter in terms of stuff and things, stretched of time in terms of processes and events, and a conception of causality in terms of entity. This way of construing reality differs goals and purposes; the causal texture of and willable; to ways of packaging and measuring for events. Let me now turn to Part II. Language begin with a puzzle of language. Four years on live network television on NBC. And accepting its leader Bono said in accepting the award, Now, the switchboards lit up like a Christmas desk of the FCC, which had to decide whether the offending word. And somewhat surprisingly, their regulations defined indecency as, &quot;Material organs or activities,&quot; and that the &quot;fucking&quot; expletive to emphasized an exclamation.&quot; Well, were a number of bills filed in Congress to is, House Resolution 3687: The Clean Airwaves You can look it up. &quot;Be it enacted by the United States of America in Congress assembled, Code is amended: (1) by inserting '(a)' before with respect to language, includes the words, the phrases 'cock sucker,' 'mother fucker,' compounds of such words and phrases with each other grammatical forms of such words and participle, and infinitive forms.&quot; Unfortunately, adverb, and that's the one part of speech grammar matters, linguistic is important. upset about certain words? It's not as if for sex and excretion have been the main legal There's a paradox. You can turn on a late or Stewart called George Bush a moron or a getting their tongues cut out or being burn use particular words to refer to excretion to ruinous fines. So what's going on there? And I'll begin with the cognitive neuroscience when people use or hear a taboo word? The brain areas associated with negative emotion. hemisphere, which we as independently been they seem to involve the basal ganglia. That's for example. The basal ganglia being complex of the brain that are involved in packaging seemed to involve the amygdala, a two, small ancient buried deep within the brain. Also, can't help but hear a taboo word with all psychologists demonstrates that something a phenomenon that is, familiar to any psychology of more than 4,000 scientific papers. So, the color in which a series of words is printed. a list of words with each word. Simply name the word says. Okay? Let's start off. Red, &gt;&gt; Green, blue, black, blue, red, green. same instruction: name the color in which Much, much harder. The explanation is that You can't process a written word as a squiggle through despite your best intentions. And I mentioned there were 5,000 papers on it. Don McCoy at UCLA. And again, the instruction the word is printed. Black... the Stroop Test almost as much as when the essence of swearing is using languages as an unpleasant or at least an emotionally charged speech or printed word recognition. Well, into two problems: What kinds of concepts speaker want to trigger a negative emotion contents of swearing. Anyone who speaks more from language to language. If you translate results can often be comical. Nonetheless, things that supply the meanings of taboo words as in our own &quot;damn, hell, and Jesus Christ,&quot; but they are continued to be more potent in For example, where I grew up in Quebec, in stub your toe, you say, &quot;damn chalice&quot; or of awe and fear at the supernatural and the and organs, which are familiar sources of that people would have an emotional reaction tell us that they are major vectors of disease. that are spread by bodily fluids. We have this rude of disease transmission, namely, languages, taboo words for disease, death, English, we have the curse of &quot;A pox on you!&quot; and Juliet. In Yiddish, you can curse by shouting English, there's a bit of taboo that surrounds and when often reads in an obituary of someone passing away and the long illness are ways to the words &quot;die&quot; and &quot;cancer&quot;. And this disease. There is, of course, sexuality as when people hear this, their first reaction with negative emotions? Isn't sex between fun? Well, not in the full sweep of human with exploitation, illegitimacy, incest, jealousy, abuse, feuding, rape. Sex is an emotionally that people should continue to have strong revulsion at sexual depravity. Then there including the most taboo word in contemporary incendiary that you can't even mention it. that is, the n-word. And the words for minorities, subordinated peoples are often taboo in English In English, we have not only a &quot;nigger,&quot; but of course, invoke the emotions of hatred and negative thoughts that people inflict on one to? What is the motive for this kind of verbal ways to swear, probably more, but five ways with dysphemistic swearing, and what does and &quot;feces&quot; or &quot;fuck&quot; and &quot;copulate&quot;. Now, behind the euphemism is we have to talk about avoid thinking about how awful it is. The It's, &quot;I want you to think about how awful the means of doing either. A good illustration don't like to think about feces anymore than we are incarnate beings for whom feces is without at least some occasions in which you're is to have a specialized vocabulary, each feces for a specific purpose in a particular fecal mater, and filth; formal terms often that you use with children like poop and doo-doo; like soil and dirt; terms in the medical context that you have to use in connection with animals units like pats; small units like droppings; context like manure. And in this golden age to refer to human feces being recycled as appeared: night soil, humanure, and my favorite, Indeed, if you were to use the wrong euphemism be rather odd. For example, if at the next you and said, &quot;The medical lab will need a As you would be if you bought a gardening fertilize your plants with cattle bowel movement.&quot; in life were the point for politeness has of how disagreeable what is being referred window and yell at some boor, &quot;Will you pick like, &quot;The plumber was working under the sink, the whole time.&quot; Or you can imagine a wife &quot;So while I've been taking care of the kids, is deliberate and the English language gives when the need arises. So dysphemistic swearing, use language as a weapon to intimidate or life when the temptation arises to abuse or studied Maladicta, swearing curses, imprecations ingenuity that goes into them. All of the connotation, alliteration, meter, rhyme, all For example, you can liken people to effluvia, is when you talk, refer to someone as a piece advise them to engage in undignified activities or fuck yourself.&quot; You can accuse them of and every undignified sexual activity has as in mother fucker; sodomy as in bugger; in jerk and wanker; and my favorite comes was last used in 1585, but I suggest that cuts you off in traffic, instead of using advise the person to kiss the cunt of a cow, to the situation. But I think it has a rather which is he mildest form of swearing, such piss-poor, pissed off, my ass, a pain in the it's actually rather puzzling what those--exactly context. But clearly what's happening is the to arouse the interest and shock the listener. of macho or cool pose, or more--in a more Just say this is the kind of setting where related to idiomatic swearing is emphatic to arouse a listener's attention to call, adjectives, this is really, really fucking Rip Van fuckin' winkle. Close the fucking and idiomatic swearing leads to the form of the story of the soldier who said, &quot;I come years in the fucking war, and what do I fucking-well relations with a male!&quot; Then there's cathartic swearing, the phenomenon a bagel or you spill a glass of beer in your switches to theology or sexuality, or excretion. way, they'll say it lets off steam, it releases The problem with this theory is that, it can haven't literally found a boiler full of steam just brain cells that fire in patterns. So, that throughout the mammalian class there injured or confined, engages in a furious presumably to startle or intimidate an attacker. caught a dog's tail in a door is well familiar this reflex also triggers the language system track. So in addition to uttering a yelp, for a strong negative emotion, one that we And I think there's a lot to the rage-circuit swearing is conventional. You have to learn a particular accident befalls you. So in English, hammer, you don't shout out whore or cunt, you do. And indeed, the cathartic swear word So if someone cuts you off in traffic, you you'd be more likely to say shit or damn, theory from the great sociologist, Erving it is not just an overflow of emotion. It that you are currently in a throws of some you can't completely control it, nonetheless, feeling. And so it belongs together with other ouch, whoops, wow, yes, and yuck. And therefore sum-up language as a window into emotion, So language tells us awe of the supernatural, hatred of disfavored people and groups, revulsion sometimes want to impose these thoughts on or humiliate them, to remind them of the awfulness that one has the normal reactions to misfortunes. social relations. Again, I'll begin with the film Fargo, from an early scene in which a his car, is pulled over by a police officer to show his driver's license, he hands over and a $50 bill extending ever so slightly that maybe the best thing would be to take everyone interprets is a veiled bribe. Now, a case in which you don't blurt out exactly your listener to listen between the lines. that would be awesome.&quot; This is a polite request whole lot of sense. But nonetheless, it is counting on you to show leadership in our unfortunate enough to sit through a fund raising like that that is a solicitation for a donation. This has been recognized as a sexual come could draw a cartoon with a confused young I'll bring the etchings down.&quot; And then, &quot;Nice if something happened to it,&quot; is something the puzzle is why are bribes, request, seductions, when both parties know exactly what they mean? has a great deal of practical importance such language of treaties and diplomacy, and in sexual harassment which are often conveyed turns out to be more complicated than I thought I think there are at least three components the logic of relationship negotiation, and what I mean by each of those. Let me start noble prize winner, Thomas Schelling called deal with another intelligent agent when you officer being a prime example. Imagine that either to utter a blatant naked bribe or not it depends very much on what kind of officer who might--would accept the bribe, giving you might have an honest officer who not only for attempting to bribe an officer in which bribery. So, neither option in this row is--I'm involve a significant cost. But given this ticket than risking the arrest for bribery. to issue a veiled bribe through innuendo, care of it here. Well, if you have a dishonest innuendo and you get a very high payoff of an honest officer, even if he suspected the of the demand of proving something beyond get is a traffic ticket. So you get the high small cost of not bribing at all, all combined choice. This is the logic of plausible deniability. about non-legal contexts? It's not as if we pre-defined legal penalties or proving something to bribe someone in everyday life. Now you want to offer a bribe in everyday life?&quot; Well, restaurant in town. You have no reservation. see if you can be seated immediately in exchange given to the food writer, Bruce Feiler by and he had to write up his experiences in a psychologist, utterly fascinating. First As far as I know, no one has ever been sent Nonetheless, he begins his article as follows: bounces through the trendier neighborhoods retorts of some incensed maitre d': What kind dare you insult me? Do you think you can get up the courage to offer a bribe, he instinctively like: &quot;I hope you can fit us in.&quot; Or, &quot;Can if you might have a cancellation.&quot; Or, &quot;This interesting finding was the outcome, which two and four minutes to the astonishment of knowing next time you want to gets in a chic with no reservations. So what's going on here? has to do two things. You have to convey the or a proposition. At the same time, you have have with the person. The solution is to use form is consistent with the safest relationship counts on the listener reading between the be incompatible with that relationship. And going on with &quot;If you could pass the guacamole, have to admit it's kind of an overstatement. why are you pondering a hypothetical possible table? Well, the listener, amusing that the says an outcome is good; therefore, he must the intended content mainly the imperative of dominance, that is, without the impression kind of underling or flunky. So if dominance avoid in their speech, what are the other Well, an anthropologist named Alan Fiske has types of human relationships that characterize Each prescribes a distinct way of distributing basis. And each applies most naturally to to others. So, there's dominance whose ethos come from the dominance hierarchies that are different mindset of communality where the probably the product of kin selection and spouses, and close friends. And then there's my back and I'll scratch yours,&quot; the tit for manner that follows the loss of reciprocal these kinds of relationships. And a behavior can be anomalous in another. So at a cocktail plate and help yourself to a shrimp off her and help yourself to a shrimp off his plate, relationship that couples have with the dominance at the end of a dinner party, if you were host for the cost of the food, that would perceived as rude. And the reason is that be appropriate on a store to a communal friendly Now, when in those situations where relationships be costly. That is, we experience an unpleasant when the two parties aren't sure of the relationship of awkwardness in the work place where an to his boss on a first name basis or invite that good friends should not engage in a business other, that it put a strain on the friendship, are diametrically opposed ways of dealing and sex is when a supervisor solicits an employee, And the conflict between friendship and sex in the subject of so many situation comedies. problem where the social costs of awkwardness the payoff matrix of the legal identification bribing a maitre d' is a perfect example where a maitre d' ordinarily exerts over its fiefdom the possibility of the bribe. So, once again, is would just offer a bribe or don't offer you got a corrupt maitre d' who would accept maitre d' who would say, &quot;How dare you insult that is?&quot; If you don't offer a bribe, you d' and you avoid the awkwardness but you'll you offer the bribe, then if you have a corrupt relationship, you get the quick table. When to maintain dominance when you're suggesting called &quot;awkwardness.&quot; If you say, &quot;I was hoping hand, the corrupt maitre d' could sense the quick table. The scrupulous one could choice is the long wait preserving the harmony of one problem that still remains, even solving aren't naive. How do you deal with the problem parties know when an overture has been made don't have to prove it beyond a reasonable all that plausible at all. Why should an obvious overture that is in so many words and that--and with a scene from the romantic comedy &quot;When couple has just met, Harry makes a sexual to me.&quot; And he says, &quot;What do you want me it back.&quot; And she says, &quot;You can't take it it's already out there.&quot; He says, &quot;Oh, jeez. It's already out there.&quot; So the puzzle is sensed to be &quot;out there&quot; or &quot;on the record&quot; it so much worse than a veiled overture that's of answers, but I think the most compelling sometimes call &quot;mutual knowledge or common identical individual knowledge. In the individual knowledge: A knows X, B knows X, A knows that that B knows that A knows X add in as an item. that there are qualitative differences between knowledge in a technical sense. And a couple enshrine freedom of assembly as a fundamental instigated when a crowd assembles in a public may have known that they were disgruntled, reason, now everyone knows that everyone else knowledge can embolden people to challenge a dictator who would otherwise be able to the whole point of the Emperor's New Clothes With the little voice said the Emperor is didn't already know, individually. But, he everyone knew that everyone else knew and again that could change the relationship and Emperor. The moral of this is that language knowledge into mutual knowledge. The hypothesis knowledge where as direct speech provides that is a trigger for maintaining or changing &quot;Would you like to come up and see my etchings,&quot; Harry knows that she has turned down an overture. could think to herself, &quot;Maybe Harry thinks knows that he knows? Harry might wonder, &quot;Maybe knowledge and they can maintain the fiction have said, &quot;Would you like to come up and that Harry knows that Sally knows, they cannot I think this is what's behind the intuition back, it's out there. To sum up language as have to convey messages while unsure of their the risks in legal context with tangible costs happen in everyday life because relationship finally, indirect speech prevents individual its mutual knowledge that's the basis for to begin the end of my talk. In a psychology, people's familiarity with their own mental of familiarity, to make a familiar seem strange. problem, in terms of being a Martian scientist. earth with no preconceptions characterize a Martian linguist describe our species documenting Well, I think you could say a lot when it would say that humans have an intuitive theory in space by identifying places and locating They construe matter as formless stuff or one, two or three dimensions. They order and own motion, moment of consciousness, and they namely an actor that impinges on an entity. physics, but it helps them to reason and agree purposes, their understanding of cause and how they package and quantify their experience People not only have ideas, but they steep They are terrified by disease, death and infirmity. loathe enemies, traitors and subordinate peoples. in all its variations. Despite having negative inflict these thoughts on one another; to things, to intimidate or denigrate them, to reactions to life's frustrations and setbacks. are very, very touchy about their relationships. lovers and friends, humans freely share and With still others, they trade goods and services these relationships sharply. When one person another, they both suffer an emotional cost. sometimes to get on with the business of life, Finally, humans think a lot about what other are ratified by this mutual knowledge. They of relationship they share. As a result, to the business of their lives, humans often some of the ways in which language can serve much. Thank you. Can we have a few minutes for questions? yes. &gt;&gt; PINKER: Yes, where are you? There you are. &gt;&gt; PINKER: Yes. It was awesome. &gt;&gt; I have a question about your description you know, we're disgusted by effluvia. What understands multiple words for effluvia will &gt;&gt; PINKER: Yeah. Do you have a comment on that? a very pointed question. So, it can't simply In addition, I think there is the taboo words, into them that says, I am referring to this in you the emotional reaction that the referent semantics of what in the world it points to, of here's why I'm doing it in order to offend absolutely crucial to the distinction between &gt;&gt; So, congratulations. I think you've just been done in this room in 20 minutes. talk about swearing. &gt;&gt; PINKER: See, and if you've taken philosophy &gt;&gt; I'll keep that trick in mind. I'm wondering swear words basically span the space of important are gaps, are there important negative emotions &gt;&gt; PINKER: I think, in a particular language, it. Across the world's languages, I suspect it's kind a surprising to hear, you know, in Polish, and what has to look across languages of them that I suspect you would. In a hundred for dangerous animals, you can't, you can't the name of the animal, for example. or experiments about either of the following, vocabulary... &gt;&gt; For pejoratives and exclamations. The second to a lot of curse words in a recent past, effect on them. I think especially emphatic swearing and idiomatic a, otherwise, limited linguistic resources the listeners' attention of why should I listen that they could listen to. And a cheap way that a taboo word arouses and just like other to you as opposed to all the other people on that. I think that it's not enough just have to be heard in a context in which one or taboo-breaking fashion. So one of them which clearly in [INDISTINCT] of soldiers They lose some of their stimulant and you English its happened too &quot;bloody and damn&quot; of 20th Century as in when Rhett Butler said, it was considered shocking at a time. In Australia, word, so that can happen and also of course epithets appropriating the word in affectionate it as in the affectionate use of nigger among and so on. That's another way in which they &gt;&gt; So mainly thinking of something else, there whether euphemism has become proxies to the and going people special because that's a... &gt;&gt; That now means retarded. treadmill. &gt;&gt; PINKER: Where when the referent continues cease to become a euphemism and will in turn A complete answer would say that it doesn't just taint any word that is used in connection &gt;&gt; So what I was actually going to ask about at the moment in the computing world is what but we're tying to construct models for people me that from what you said about representing by just calling one friend or, you know, not here or do you think we could express these &gt;&gt; PINKER: It might be possible because there amount of cultural--a number of cultural practices manipulation to try to force or seduce people types. So for example, the use of kinship brother can you spare a dime is one way of Wearing--signs of dominants, the, you know, pads, I think I have some shoulder pads here in a relationship that otherwise would be some verbal, some almost have to be non-verbal people to accept one or the other. So they settings in our brain, but what triggers them not so benign manipulation, so it could be &gt;&gt; So I think there are a lot of common instances about how a word had a very strong potent that, are there many examples of the opposite and attracts that. I was told, you know, once just sort of everyday, Anglo-Saxon words and &gt;&gt; PINKER: Yes, that's exactly right. And the reformation I think that might be a dividing religious to sexual and scatological wearing were it was routine religious wearing but shit and fuck and cunt were actually unexceptionable status. Something like that in more recent over the last little while which is why you Finn where the casual use of nigger in Huckleberry but it didn't have that same aura of racism are our most taboo word might be an example term seemed to be kind of misogynistic and Imus using the word &quot;ho&quot; out of context where sensitivities to racial and gender bias. So people really were worried about God and hell excretion, now they're worried about sexism &gt;&gt; Yeah, there seemed to be sort of power sort of more ordinary and a more ordinary &gt;&gt; PINKER: Well, I think some of them are--I imposed by those in power to retain power &gt;&gt; Dominance, yeah. Yeah, dominance. it's also just what people are kind of edgy for using certain words to get a rise out really thought about but I suspect it's more kind of imposing it from the top down, it &gt;&gt; You spoke a lot about the connection between also about the connection between swear words may have noticed that it caused a lot of laughter words. It's also something that you hear a invoke that laughter, I wonder if you have &gt;&gt; PINKER: That's right. It is also talking people often taboo words can do that. I think aside is that laughter is also a very good argue that the evolutionary function of laughter It's conspicuous. It's more common in social and so on. But why--why do you laugh in public? with swearing? I think it's the reduction kind of reduction in dignity. You either take of a joke or to maintain communality and negate or deprecate yourself but descent and dignity humor I'm sorry--and the undignified nature an ingredient of taboo language. if you've already addressed this in the beginning, the tone in which language is delivered and something as innocuous says, &quot;What are you you doing?&quot; &quot;Hey, what are you doing?&quot; Like... &gt;&gt; For example. often can be used both for emphasis, for stressing the listener ought to attend too often in is a very powerful rhetorical tool and superimposed question versus statement versus command. is emotion: anger, sarcasms, irony and so language can so easily be misunderstood if we have crude approximations like italics essential ingredient to linguistic communication. like Chinese in which tone is used as a way talk I suspect that tone of voice is one of taboo as a child namely if some epithet is tone of voice that it is more likely to be in cathartic swearing, how do you know which stub your tone and so on? Well, it's the--I tone of voice that register that association &gt;&gt; And I would just like to say thank you &gt;&gt; PINKER: Thanks for having me here today.