Hi, My name is Spike Edney for Queen and Adam Lambert. It's a position I've held for 40 years since 1984, The Works Tour. And I'd like to share with you my wonderful KORG setup that I've used in various forms I think I started out with an M1 there was an M3 and then there was the KRONOS, and more recently moved into the NAUTILUS. As you can see, I've got two keyboards here put into a grand piano box. This is showbiz. It doesn't do anything. It's just a keyboard stand, and it works well when you're playing Now, back in those days, in 1984, I had first of all, Then I had a sampler keyboard in the middle because the song Radio Gaga, and that's And I'll show you that in a minute. But it was a case of me having to change sounds on the sampler If I wanted to have a string sound, I had to change, unload and reload And that led to all kinds of problems. I'm happy to say that we have made giant technological advances I can actually do the whole Queen show because it has the regular, it has a great piano sound and a weighted touch. So it's lovely to play strings and pads But it has the capacity to load samples in if there's anything, and I do fire a couple of things. and it also has an inbuilt vocoder. So we have compressed I said about Radio Gaga I'll just give you a quick resume So you get the idea. I can play those and then at the same time I have this I have everything As the tour went on, within The Work and the set things like Radio Gaga. Because of the vocoder's ability, augment the vocal sound. studio vocals. Very difficult for them to do on stage and I'm the extra person five. So Fred is the lead singer, Brian and Roger can do backing vocals. Brian is often running around the stage though and, the bass player. And so Roger and I do Well, that's not multi-layered, but in certain songs I could use help. There's a song called Now I'm Here So you can see I use the vocoder to add some depth Quite useful. So we moved on and did that. By the time we got to 1986, there's an album called A Kind of Magic, the song starts off with a studio sample of effects. That's a direct lift from the album again and is used just for the intro so that we can But what I can do with that is, back in the day I didn't do it. Fred used to sing it, Now, I'm triggering that "It's a kind of magic" myself. So I choose when it happens. It's not a tape or anything. It's not built into the Do much more. And then we have got the piano and strings. so self-sufficient. But I'm joking. We have more singers on the stage now. We've got, you know, Neil Fairclough Both have great voices, so we can do a lot more the vocals, Then there's an effect the record goes... But we can do that... So combination of pitch wheel, pitch controller and changing the chord. It doesn't work that you just... this is the chord if you just pitch down from that, it's the wrong chord. So you have to find the right chord So again, a lot of stuff that can be done with that. Other songs that I use the facilities this machine has, one So again, we have a combination of original studio samples taken from the stems. But then I've got a whole bunch that comes from KORG itself. So the opening sound That's a really slow backwards piano, That's a backwards cymbal. I think it's all maybe Very good. So they are actual studio samples. But then I've got things Of course, you have to use things You can't have them all So they happen at various times Add to that I use the basic German grand piano. We have a song called Under Pressure. and then when it gets I bring in the strings In the middle there's a middle eight that features an organ. And by hitting the foot pedal, I can bring in the Leslie chorus. So again, I have many things I suppose what I think is And there are lots of things to make that their sounds more realistic And I'm very happy with the KORG NAUTILUS that I need to make a convincing representation of them, because That's impossible. But what you can do is give it something and if you make it close enough, I get everything I need out of this with the sample ability, the inbuilt I think you probably recognize that. And that is pretty straightforward all the way through I can't think of finer way to end.