Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today we With Notion, you can capture thoughts, you you could even run an entire business. We're going just add a page, how you can work with blocks, collaborating with others. Although those may By the end of this video, you'll have a All right let's check this out. To get Notion, in the description. This drops us on the Notion says pricing. This opens up a page with an check that out, one of them is completely free, video today. The free plan offers all of the core First off, you can only upload files up to 5 maybe an image to your workspace. You just have Also, you can only collaborate with up to five and you have more people you're working with, But once again, the free plan has most of what now drops us on the sign-up screen, and you can or an Apple account. I'll sign up with you can add a photo, and especially if you want doing this. You can also add your name down below do this. I've now entered all of my information. can tell Notion a little bit about yourself, so on skip. Here we have a choice to make. Do you myself is the free plan and that's the one I'll don't feel like you're locked in. Later on, you but for now, let's go with this one and then click main Notion interface, and although it may look I want to start by just giving you an Over on the left-hand side, this area is referred navigate throughout your workspace. At the very name, and when I click on that, here we see the can also customize whether you see the sidebar. you also see the shortcut key. I can click on just focus on the content. Here I could click on I could also hover over the edge and here I could So, I can customize what that looks like. Here in throughout your workspace and right here you see make up your workspace. Here, for instance, that's the one highlighted and over here contents of that page all right here. Down in the notification for the desktop app. So here I could go right back up to the workspace name, click app. There's an app available for both Windows and Well, first off, you get OS level notifications, Also, it's not in a web browser so you don't Aside from those two, though, it's if you don't care too much about those, you We've talked about the interface a little bit now, new page to track locations for the Kevin Cookie there's an option called templates, and when I different templates that I can add and it's worth already does what you need. I'll exit out of that. just add a blank new page and I could start from add a page and that does the exact same thing, are many ways to do the same thing. I'll click on right here in the sidebar, you see the new page page a name, I can click on the three dots and into the page and here I could type in a name. I can also customize what this page looks like. different options appear. Here I can add an icon. default icon, but this doesn't really relate to could customize it. I could insert an emoji. I upload my own image, but I think emojis should they do. That one looks good, and I'll select over on the left-hand side where I see all of my quickly identify this page. Right up here I can it also throws in just a random image, but once click on change cover and here I can choose from my own. Here I could also link to an image, and are basically stock images. Here too, I'll This one looks pretty good. I'll select that and I could also click on reposition and here I could but I think this looks good. I'll click on save, Down below, I see all these different links that I here you could insert a template or you could we'll get into what these are, but for now I so I'll simply click here, and I'll start typing retail locations for the Kevin Cookie Company. other word processing application, here I could it, I get this contextual menu. So here I can down and maybe I apply some blue to this text, over on the right-hand side, I have this but for now I think this looks good. When I hover left-hand side, you'll see there's a plus icon and inserted, this is referred to as a block, and this Over on the left-hand side, I'll click on the plus blocks that you can insert onto your page. This just a simple text block and here we see some of a heading, a table, a bulleted list, and you can see all of the different rich types of even insert media, video, audio, you can even lots of different options when it comes to blocks. heading 1 and here that inserts a heading and I'll an image of all the current locations. So, just the left-hand side, click on this plus icon, and I and this is a little bit quicker, I can simply all of the different block options. Here I'll I could enter in a link, or I could select that on upload. Here's my image. I'll select this and our current locations to this page. As I hover you'll see that I have this same plus icon with again, you compose a page with many different we've been clicking on this plus icon, but can also type in the forward slash character. Here the menu. It's a little bit quicker to do that. hit enter and that inserts the heading 1. So, For this heading, I'll type in proposed locations I want to add a bulleted list of all of the Here I could type in a forward slash, and this scroll down a little bit, here's the option but that was quite a few clicks just for a I can type in a hyphen and then a space, and lot quicker. Learning shortcuts can really help in the bottom right-hand corner, you'll see you can click into keyboard shortcuts. This page available within Notion. Here at the top, you'll you a lot time, and as you scroll down, you'll it's well worth some time learning some of these all of the different cities where we're planning I think a task list might work better than a to retype everything in. So here, I can highlight on this six-dot icon, and when I click on that, over that, I can change this block type into any be a To Do list. I'll select this option, and that of these different blocks, we've been clicking on but you can also just drag and drop media from this page down at the bottom, we have all of these highly sensitive information. We certainly hands on this, so I should probably include some Here I'll take an image from my computer, and I'll know that this is top secret and that they won't I think this image will be very effective, but it the page, and it's good that it's pretty easy to and here I see the six-dot icon. I can press and when I drag it you see this blue line appear and one thing that's nice is you can also move to make another column and place it alongside left-hand side. Now I think probably the most I'll release and place it right there. That way the sensitive information. To move this block, we but you can also select a block and then you keys because once again they help you save so arrow to move it down a block, or control + shift quicker to move things around your page. This almost too much information on just one page. so I'd rather split up some of this content. Over I'll hover over this page with the Kevin Cookie and this allows me to add another page. Here I'll to the side, and here I see my main page and I now here I see my sub-page. I'll go back to the page current locations and I'll take this map. I'll back to current locations, hit enter, and here When I go back to the main page and I scroll to current locations. When I click on this, this To navigate around, here I could click here, I pages, or up on top, I also have breadcrumbs that sub-page current locations, but here I could back to that main page. I think it also makes their own page. I could go through the same flow. another page, but instead I could also click on here's the option to turn into page in, so I could a page within the Kevin Cookie Company locations. added a new page over on the left-hand side in all of them. I'll click back into the main page. locations. Here I'll highlight all those different and here I have the option to move to. I'll select I'll type in proposed locations, and here I see that moves over all of those blocks into proposed there are many different ways to accomplish the on the left-hand side, I can reorder these. So, proposed locations. Here I can press and hold, and Here I could also select the entire page this all the way to the top on top of getting very top of the list. Now, especially as you it might become hard to get back to the ones that in the top right-hand corner, I can click on this Over in the sidebar, you'll see that it and here I see all of my Kevin Cookie Company the right of the favorite icon, I can click on I can adjust the style of my pages. So, here also adjust the size of the text. I can make it full width or not the full width. You have other so this way when people come in, they can't might be helpful. For now, I'll click on the three edits to this. Over on the left-hand side, let's I see all the cities where we want to open up a much. For example, what is the anticipated opening those types of questions. What is the status? so I want a much more detailed view and I I'll type in the forward slash, and here I'll of databases that we can insert, and I just want a and later on we'll see how you can start with the database into all these other types. So, let's we now have a new database. That's how easy it is side, let's expand proposed locations, and here of proposed locations, and right up here, I can detailed view of proposed locations. Down below, sound somewhat intimidating, it's really just and I want to use this database or this table planning on opening at the Kevin Cookie Company. columns names. Here I'll click into this column Over here, instead of tags, let me change the anticipated opening date, I'll click on type I could also add additional columns. I'll click on so how far are we along at opening this location? I can see these different states: not started, as we track these different projects. I'll close column for files. This way we can share a picture and here there's the option for files and media, properties to your database, whether it's text, especially when you're collaborating, you could this list to see all the different types that you this looks good. I'll close this out. My database of the cities where we want to open locations. information. I've now added some details to this well, what is the difference between just a store all this same information just directly of these differences are. When I hover over Los to open additional details or a side peek. Let's right-hand side or the side peek with Los Angeles, that I can add an icon. I can add a cover, so this I can see the properties, or the columns related an entire page related to this one specific store. information related to each one of these records peek. Along with being able to add more details down below, you can also add calculations. Here all the new locations we're planning on opening. a count to the bottom of that column. Over here, I'll click on calculate and here I could add the store in two days. That's coming up really soon, Under this column, I could also click on so let's see what percent is already done. Here that we're 20% through this list. We're making filter and sort your data. Here I'll click on the on that, here I have the option to sort, and I and let's say that I just want to see all the click on this drop down, and I'll say is after I see that we have one store opening up in 2023. on the three dots, and then delete the filter. also can access my sorting options. To the right database. When I click on this, let's say I just in and that filters down this database table to To the right, I also have the three dots or the that I can configure. The beautiful thing about data in different ways. All of the underlying views on it. Over on the left-hand side, let's over on the side where I can decide what type of here. Now I already have a table view. That's this add another one. So, here let's select the board I can configure various settings related to this let's click into this, and I want to group by the this out. So here I can see my board view. It the current status. Now we've made some progress on that card and here I can drag it over into here I can see that Manila has now updated, of these different views. I just have different plus icon again and I can add yet another view view and then I'll click done. Here, I'll close but one of the interesting things now is I can in a calendar view. So, once again, all of the is how I view all of this data, and if I make views. Here too, I can also click into one of the so databases are so powerful, and you can contain To get back to any of the other views, here I can here I can jump between the different views, but here I can expand this section and I see all these here I have my table, my board, my calendar, so all of these different views. I hope you see by and have so much more functionality than just your you may have the need to bring additional data easy. Over on the left-hand side, let's click on see all of the different types of data that have Evernote, Trello, Asana, and all these other I want to add all of our delivery information Word and here I have my delivery options. I'll finishes importing, over on the left-hand side, and here I see my Word document has been imported work just in this one place. The one thing to here within Notion, this won't go back and affect all the delivery options entered into Notion, I I should probably add in the address information. the left-hand side using the sidebar, but up on to search. When I hover over search, you'll see on search and here I want to add details to the here, I see the best match for Los Angeles. Here direct page within the database. That was a really the page and here I'll enter the forward slash it be nice to include a map. Here I'll type in content directly into your page. Here I have the here it asks me to type in a URL. I'll enter the and here we now see a map of the location where I wanted. Adding the map was pretty easy, but I Maybe I could pull in one of my coworkers and have and all of the subpages. Here I'll select this I can click on share. When I share this out, it'll Here I'll click on share and right here I can to share with. I'll click on this and here I'll looking for some work so I'll enter in her e-mail the permissions. Here I can give her edit access cities, so I need her to be able to edit, but and if you upgrade the plan, you can also offer Down below, I could also type in a message. Over what an overachiever. Patty is already within above, and this indicates that she's currently on her photo will grey out, and once she returns to Over in the top left-hand corner, I can click I can click into members, and right up here review all of the different guests who have I see that Patty has access. I can click over specific page. If I no longer want her to be able With the free plan, you can only share with I want to make sure that Patty knows what to do. locations. Then I'll highlight Manila and here I this. Over here, I'll select the @ symbol, but Right here, I'll select Patty Fernandez and then to all of these different cities, and of course, incentivize people with a free cookie. Here, I'll now see this comment icon and here I can click on like Patty's already responded. Of course, all Right here, I can resolve this comment. I'll from the page. To view all of the comments I can click on the comment icon, and here I I can filter to all of the resolved comments, on the left-hand side, here I can also click on updates happening throughout this workspace, and things is I could also reply directly from here. on everything that's happening throughout this now getting all this work done, but I also want our customers so they know where they could shop in the top right-hand corner I'll click on share right here I have the option to share to web. This check this and right here I see the website I can also set various permissions for this page. this. I also don't want them to comment, so I'll to this page, and look at that, customers can We might have to work on providing a little more but at least they know that there are well that was a quick look at how you can get with me that it is an incredibly powerful tool watch more videos like this one, please consider