Peace Begins With You 31 December 2020 [Mooji] We speak about peace. Everyone has experienced a little bit of peace, We have experienced expressions of love, or of gratitude, of forgiveness, and so on. All this comes to us, because deep down in the essence of ourself, God is Truth, is true life, our true being. And it is correct, it is our duty and nature, to live out the richness and the fullness of who we are and who we are meant to be. And so today, I want to show you peace, how to find peace, irrespective of who you are, whether you are religious or not religious, Peace is at the heart of who you truly are. It might get covered up and stresses and so on. But we have the power And if we are seeking to live the peace must begin inside our own heart. So, today, right now, I would like to invite you, just to listen to a little guidance to put your mind back inside your heart, and to experience who really lives here. To experience the God-Self Do not be afraid. There is nothing painful You don't have to ... or ask you to believe in something. I'm not going to ask you I'm not going to ask you I'm not going to ask you Just simple. And if you are willing to go along with it, I will tell you, and we can begin now. We can begin now. Now, many people might be afraid, 'Oh, he is going to make us feel uncomfortable No, we are already uncomfortable about ourself. I want you to be I want you to experience the truth of what you are in reality. OK? So it's a simple exercise. And those of you who wish to, even your children will be able to understand. If you have your family, they can understand and benefit. In fact, at the end of it you will see that, even your pets, animals, because you are again at peace with yourself. So, how to start? What to do? Well, don't think about what to do. Listen to me [indicates the heart] First thing: and our own thoughts about and the world and so on. So, just for this short duration I will ask you this simple thing. Please be willing to just leave aside all the thoughts that may appear in your mind, even the sense of memory. It is possible, actually. Just have the attitude And I want to reassure you that at the end of our time together, you may go back and collect your stuff. I am not ... I'm not going to say, No, you gave it to me. No. Just leave it aside for a moment, just so that you can have this simple space to experience a deeper layer of your being. So, here we go. Just imagine that some space was opened up, and to this space, memory, intention, desire, even identity, you are just going to leave it. So, inside your being, not just your head, your entire being, it's like silent and empty. Silent and empty. So, do this now. Be with this now. Let us do everything. There is no safe thought. There are no favourite thoughts. Just let them all slip aside. Just see. Sometimes you may have heard, and you thought, 'What is that?' Well, try it and see. Just be very, very empty. Fully empty. Just like that. Look and see if everything, every thought, every projection, every belief, every attachment, every desire was, for a moment, just left aside. Just for five minutes, So empty, empty, empty, empty. You will see, and are seeing, that there still remains something, that cannot be taken out. Try and see. Take everything aside, all the thoughts about, 'What I must do', 'What I will do later', All the pains and the memories, beautiful and ugly, everything, Even the idea you have of who you are, So, empty, empty, just imagine ... Empty, empty, empty, empty ... You are not a container. Empty, empty, empty. Empty inside, empty outside. And look, there is still something here which cannot be removed, cannot be taken out. Pay attention to this. Notice this. Now, you see, I've not asked you to close your ears, to close your eyes. No, the senses can be left as they are, functioning in their natural way. So, how simple! Now, some people, I know, They think, 'Oh, he is trying to trick us, I say, oh, no, no. You will see, those of you who are following with me, as I am also doing. So I can be really empty, It's coming out of my emptiness. Silent and very present. I can hear the wind. I can smell the fresh grass. I can feel and hear the wind, and I'm aware of this silence, which has no edge, no boundary. Just like you, like that. Allow this. And notice, don't be waiting for something. Don't be expecting anything. Just here, right where you are, wherever that may be. I had to ask you to do this, so now I can ask you a few simple questions. I will not be able to hear your answers, but it is important that you answer, 'Yes' or 'No', just with words, to yourself. I will not hear them verbally, but I will feel you, Silent. Empty. Is there any fear here? Just look. In this Emptiness, is there any fear? Is there any attachment Please look. Remain in your emptiness. Look. That which is here right now, is it a thing? Is it an object? Does it have a form? Remain empty. You are seeing. Are there any judgements in it, in what is here in the Emptiness? Are there any judgements? Is there any pressure at all? Please look. So, even the looking is taking place This that Is, What you are aware of, This silence, this peace. And yet, naturally, you know you are here. Not just that the body is here, but you are even aware of your body Now that you are aware of what is here, even when your mind is free of thoughts, and you are free of feelings, and desires and judgements, there is this wonderful space of peace. This peace has no colour. It has no limitation. Can you see? You are aware of it, naturally. Do you need to make any effort No, no effort is needed. This that is here, can it be lost? Sometimes our minds say, But really look now that you are here. In order for something to be lost or found, it has to have a shape. Can this be lost? It's only that our attention can move and you have this sense that or you've lost it, or that it has gone away. But really, that is not true! This is always here. This is always here. And so, I've invited you This peace is what we call, the peace, the true peace of life. And where there is peace, Do you notice? Where there is contentment, Where there is peace, there is openness. Where there is there is love. This we call love. I'm not bringing any person into it It's just a very boundless space of equanimity, peace, and love. I'm introducing you to your inner Self. I cannot give you that. I can only offer you the opportunity to discover this within yourself. This is where peace really begins. And you can see, It is natural to yourself. Peace and your Self, are the same thing. So, today, today, this moment, The peace that Is. The love and the joy that Is. Your mind is empty. You can see that, that's not a mistake. In fact, it feels like a gift, because where there is emptiness in the mind, So, this is peace! This is peace. Now, this that really Is, Do you have to reach out to catch it? Not at all. It's as though your body, your very existence, is existing at one with this peace. All people who have discovered God, are experiencing this peace So, I wanted you to know no matter what you've done, where you are from, wherever, this peace is here in your heart. While you are feeling this peace, automatically, you will know that, you are in the presence So, look at that! When you are experiencing this peace is this peace only in this body? Or is it in everybody? It is in everybody! That is peace. When you know this ... I am not sending you out, Go and make this. Go and do that. No. It begins in this simple discovering. And with this discovering, I would invite and encourage you Because, look how good you feel. How open, how silent. Now, of course, your mind is going to come back. It's going to come with all kinds of things. But, don't argue with the mind. Simply, do as you've done just now. Leave everything aside, It's not waiting, it's just here. And be with it. So, I felt that I didn't want but I wanted to encourage and introduce and guide you into the peace which is your inherent peace, which is your true God-nature and place. Peace begins, not out there, If each person can experience this peace, which is beyond race, gender, It is everywhere present, if only we seek it. And look how easy it is to find. This, beloved ones, my dear family, this is a taste of your own being. It is like this. This peace that you feel within you, becomes inspiring for others, who will meet you in this state. And they will want this peace within themselves. This is where we say, in the human kingdom, in the human family. So, bless you, bless you, bless you, all of you. Thank you for the opportunity of approaching you in this way. And bless that your life continues to blossom and to flourish in goodness and health, and peace and brotherly love and compassion. God bless you, wherever you may be. And all my love to you. Thank you. Amen. [silence] Thank you. Happy New Year. Happy Now Here. Now here. Bless you. Copyright (c) 2020 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.