- [Metal Jesus] Metal Jesus here, and I am How is it going, dude? - [John Hancock] Always thanks so much for inviting me into your game are one of the few people I know that has Master System. - I love the System. You know there's only 114 released games, but I love System, and I love collecting for it. - Yeah. video because a lot of you are like me where curious about it. So this is going to be a hardware, the accessories, and he also has people? - 10 games - Dude this is going to - So the history for me with Master System actually carried Master System games for rent what's that? Oh, that's Sega's console.&quot; Later like, &quot;Oh, that's okay. Because he didn't and was in high school there was an outlet stuff and that is when I bought it. So I bought that's really cool. So in front of us you more, but we'll sell these four. - This is making him pull these out of you know this like, &quot;This isn't just rare&quot; - It's pretty language yes. - Yeah. I was like, &quot;Please I again, well you see Master Systems occasionally cardboard goes the way of the dodo. And it's a reasonable price especially. - All right - All right, well let's just start off with the first versions released in North America.and Base System. And it wasn't even called the shelves it would just be weird. - They had all the lines something like that. Because an accountant would use, like a computer almost. mean I like the art styling. - It doesn't is this, is this a computer, is this a game go after something that looked like Nintendo, a Craigslist score. And I did some research it may not show up on the camera, but this Master System, which makes it stand out. And gray, it's more rare. - Interesting. Now, to mention here is that one, I love its design. I have ever seen. Like I love how its angles, feature where it has cartridges and it also in some of the games, definitely. And it's was a great looking system, and it's too bad - All right, next one, this is kind of more says Master System on it. - Yes. And there's that there are several other variations of came with other games. Some have the game version. There's like a snail game that was that it has a built in game, mine doesn't. gypped&quot; but that's just... - Yours must have a cartridge with a game on it. - Oh, okay. in. - That makes sense. - So this is your controllers and the phaser. The Sega Light guns were all the rage at this time. - Yeah. an accident with a young child. And the phaser, ones with the orange tip and one without. It came with Hang On, Safari Hunt, Astro Warrior, - And you see those games a lot around? - Yes. System, it was a lot of copies. - Yeah. The to get, but anyways that's your normal run box here. This is the one that you had to It's just the box, I would love to have a pricey now. And this came with the 3-D glasses in the day? Is two controllers came with the to play games with your friends. - Because like kind of probably when the system when everything together and selling it, and this shape. You know the box was a little beat And so this is this model, but they also came later on almost any console has like I call it. Since they called it the Master System when the Genesis became successful there was of games made, that were Master System games As kind of like a cheap, inexpensive console, It doesn't have any flair, does it? - No. to it, it would look like a vacuum cleaner. you know like an inexpensive vacuum cleaner. Alex Kidd built in, though. That's Cool. - Yeah. other Master System consoles which you can RF. Which means... - Oh, I hate when they that. This is an upgrade to my box. This is - Now in addition to these, there were a lot the world right? - Absolutely. - So there Brazil, U.K, I mean it was huge overseas. more, but some of those games...and again games today, but there are hundreds of other - Excellent. - Cool, so this is the system - All right, first up we got is the power the Master System, but the Genesis, Sega Genesis. probably own a Genesis versus a Master System, to play all the Master System games on your 5, which had, I think, like a hardware revision play additional games. - Which you had a hand a general discussion. I mean I'm not the only - Yeah. These are really cool and it used $5 or $10 bucks. That hasn't been my experience snag it, because people are looking for it. - It's a great way to play your Master System system isn't perfect, but man it looks super this is that it supports the cartridge and awesome. - Thumbs up. Next up something a not going to use a lot. Is the Sega Light two versions. There's one gun with like an added because I do believe a child was shot feature that they had to add. And so, the You're not going to use it for many things. - Yeah. And it's just you know. - Back in light gun and this was no exception. - Yep, I don't miss it. All right, next up, very, - So I have a Master System as well. And when I could not buy them fast enough. I was like, it is amazing. It's great technology. You the glasses is they always break at the hinges, up, because it's really hard, there's an additional actually plugging into your system that's I recommend anytime you see one of these at when you have it all set up, with all the actual 3-D you know it's got a flickering of reminds me of kind of what the 3ds does but that's what I compare it to. - Yeah. It other. - Yeah. All right, this next thing when you say bizarre that means something. So they actually came out with a Rapid Fire I feel, the most ridiculous and terribly designed for like shooters and things like that, so button. - Yeah. So this is a combination box a Rapid Fire control stick and then it comes I won this actually through Video Game Wizards this is the one thing I wanted to buy and in the box - Complete in the box, yes in really out there that people need to know about? Pad it's like a roller controller. I don't it. You know, it's one accessory that I'm - Wha-Wha. All right, next the games right? Okay, so 10 games that I need to have in my going to start off with one that doesn't cost - I have this game. - Yeah. Choplifter is, series or if even the arcade, or even going I played it on the computer first. - And so think the Master System version is the best. of thought. It's just good arcade classic game is a platformer that a lot of people specific for the Master System called Psycho - It is a fun game. The jump mechanics for a little slippery. - It's a little slippery Mario, it's just going to feel weird, but solid and again, only on the Master System. Boy, it's Wonder Boy III- The Dragon's Trap. is just excellent graphics and gameplay. I the actual graphics power of the Master System. Master System, graphically, was superior to and some other things, Nintendo with its mappers really just started to tear away from the I mean they all play great. And I think that System. I was surprised, I was like why was it I think was marketing. I mean, you just your eye. - That looks like that right there, like an educational type you know? - Yes. next up, classic SHINOBI. Yep, and again, game, plays well. It's one of the first games a lot better than the Nintendo version would. do that where they would put the genre on a nice way they identified the games and what with it that's a quick way to tell people the game doesn't cost too much either. I mean The Definitive RPG for the system. And a must Star. Yeah, and some vote this the best 8-bit played it, but I heard people love it. - It's haven't given it time I recommend it. It's You know I remember the good old days of the that in this game. You're going to get lost, you're not supposed to be, and you will die. recommend it enough. Yeah, it's gorgeous. and R-TYPE, the Master System its advantage faithful port of the arcade game and it's version of the game to this day. - You know - That's their strength. That's always been of arcade port, I remember playing this next RASTAN. Yeah, and you know again, at first know it's going to- again, graphically from - It's all about gameplay. I mean with these can forgive you know, lesser graphics. - And as well is there's a special converter with had additional sound options that you could options or something? - They did make Stone play on a Genesis or something. - So, It's definitely pretty sweet. But RASTAN one of we can't talk about shooters unless we talk I mean is that a legit copy? - Yeah. This kind of offered I think through mail or something. is amazing. It's part of the Aleste Day Series. on the system. It's a must play, super fast, cool. This next one, I was like we got to reason why I was like- because first of all kind of hard to find, but Montezuma's Revenge would kick my butt, it's a tough game. It's that is all one level. And so it's a bit of you're going, but the reason why I want to version of it. And it came out on the Master - Yeah. And you know the thing is the longest manual, for years and it bugged me. And finally bucks with a manual and I'm like, AAH. So this next one, I actually got asked recently, come out in the U. S.?&quot; Why yes it did. And - What game is it? - Golden Axe Warrior. The is the U.S. version with the UPC label sticker it's an overhead view kind of has a perspective yeah. - Is it a beat 'em up? - No. It's more and a must-own, and it's a little hard to System? - I do believe so. I want to say was on that, but I know that not many systems to do a Sega Master System buying guide for this request like it's up there. Like a lot excited to do it because again, I didn't really when I finally got one. It's a fun system. it out, and I think it's important to know this. And there's a lot of emulators that this on the OUYA and it plays great. - Yeah. I've even played it on Dreamcast. Which is a Dreamcast emulator disc floating around - Now, it's also possible to play on the portable adapter for your game gear and it plays most and you can play the portable. - The other System games everywhere and they're usually NES games by far. So it's a fun system to owners are like, &quot;Cut you a deal&quot; especially dude well where can people find you on the John Hancock and you know I have my own YouTube Twitter. - Awesome. All right guys, thanks for subscribing, and take care. John Hancock U.S. collections. Its crazy. It's crazy being I mean, he's got every Sega game, but he's and Turbo Graphics collections. It's amazing, 2600 games. You never see that many boxed on my channel.