* Hi! Happy first day of fall! Oh, what's this? It's a special pumpkin latte. Well, let's go buy a different one. No, thanks I don't like coffee I don't like walking. Maybe * Sure, there is a great * I'm sorry; I don't like cafes. You don't like walking. You don't I like watching movies I like swimming I like playing video games Can she say anything else instead of &quot; I like? &quot; Hello, everyone, welcome back to my channel! so excited because we're diving into a topic: Like'.&quot; I will give you a lot of useful so if you don't want to sound boring, if you and you want to speak fluent and confident It's completely fine to say 'I like' and I don't probably means that your English level is low. alternatives to the phrase &quot;I like&quot;. I have Intermediate and Advanced, so you will see A1 (Beginner): Now let's Instead of saying I like you can say I love dancing But there's an important thing. a noun or a verb + ing or the infinitive: Or I love reading books (verb+ing) let's move on to the next level. As an elementary level I adore watching movies hobbies, sports, music instead of saying I'm a fan of playing the guitar I'm a fan of rock music I'm fond of hiking in the mountains I'm fond of jazz I have a liking for cycling; I have a liking for reading: it develops my brain. As an Intermediate student instead of I'm into classical music. I'm into When you describing your hobby or I'm keen on woodworking. You can also say - I'm crazy about When you express your likes, you can I find listening to music very enjoyable. B2 (Upper-Intermediate): for the upper intermediate level. If you want you can use the expression: I take pleasure (in) good book on a rainy day I have a preference for practicing Another great phrase is - I'm drawn to I'm drawn to poetry writing. When you want to express your It's my (kind of) thing: Rock climbing is my kind of thing. spot for I have a soft spot for dogs, Please pay attention to the preposition expression will not make any sense. I have a soft spot for comedies but be careful, this expression is informal. or boss. I'm hooked on surfing. I'm C1 (Advanced): appeals to me. Growing exotic plants appeals to Please mind the preposition here - appeals TO me I have a passion for photography then you changed your mind, and you start loving And in the Past Simple we say - it grew on me. but it really grows on me. but eventually it grew on me. The next advanced phrase is I'm really into morning and take yoga classes in the When you focus on a particular thing in life about. I'm all about family. Spending time with He's all about self-improvement. constantly works on personal development. do something a lot, you can say I'm games. He spends hours playing them every day. it can sometimes be a problem because you She's addicted to social media. She can't As an advanced student Instead of saying I like This expression means that something I've always been interested in science fiction Hope these alternatives can help you express your [vstavka] I brought you a cup of pumpkin coffee. 1 - Well, let's go buy a different one. 1 - Well, let's just go for a walk. just could sit somewhere? cafe just around the corner. on cafes. There's a lot of noise, you know. 1 - You are not into walking. You're not 2 - I'm crazy about watching movies. I take pleasure in hanging out with my friends. I'm drawn to swimming. Now let's talk about phrases you can use instead don't forget to hit that &quot;Subscribe&quot; button and out on any of my new videos. As a beginner you can say - I don't like Or I hate same question multiple times. As a student of an elementary I dislike wearing fancy outfits. is to say - I'm not fond of I'm not fond of crowded places B1 (Intermediate): student you can say - I really don't like dislike something. For example: it tastes terrible to me. dislike. I strongly dislike rude behavior. of I don't like is - I'm not keen on it's a more polite way to express on horror movies; they tend to scare me. have no interest in science fiction films. Another great expression is - I'm not into something, for example - I'm not into clubbing; B2 (Upper-Intermediate): Instead of saying - I don't like - you I'm not a big fan of it. When someone asks about your preferences or example- I'm not interested in sports. I'm not crazy about fashion. you really don't like, you can respond like this - not interested in that. but I'm not a big fan of hiking. Another great alternative to the You can use this phrase when you hobbies or food preferences. I'm not drawn to C1 (Advanced): The first phrase is - That's not for me. Let's tried before, and You don't want to taste it. but this dish is not for me. That's not my thing; I prefer familiar food. say - I'll pass. Sorry, I'll pass. Another phrase you can use instead You can express your dislikes about the weather. You can use this phrase when talking about music, Talking about a specific I can't stand doing the dishes. I When you strongly dislike I detest cold and rainy days. I detest I detest public speaking; it makes me nervous. I loathe cruelty to animals. I loathe I loathe rap music; the Now it's time to practice what we've 5 sentences about things that you like and 5 new expressions. I will read every comment and Thank you for watching this video! If you found subscribe and share this video with your friend who is also learning English! I