Most of the largest dams in the US were built have on river ecosystems. Or at least they were those impacts against the benefits of a dam. And, flood control, agriculture, water supply for lives benefit in some way from this enormous But those benefits come at a cost, and the the infrastructure but also the impacts dams have important resources: the control of water to the rely on, and in many ways these two are in direct of these big dams were built decades ago, the ways the science and engineering improve. This is run the gamut. And I don't think there's one right better than an oblivious one. So, I wanted to see benefits and environmental impacts, and how that's folks at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory to be clear, they didn't sponsor this video and so much, not just the incredible technology and it is put into practice in real infrastructure This is McNary Dam, a nearly across the Columbia River between just shy of 300 miles (or 470 km) upriver from the dam's Operations Project Manager and But this was not just a little walkthrough. We really understand how it works. McNary is one River system, a network of dams that provide and navigation to the region. It's equipped with behemoths can generate nearly a gigawatt of power very generally, power more than half-a-million is nearly a quarter mile long (more than 350 of these units in a video, but Tim was gracious hear the enormous steel shaft spinning as it All that electricity flows out to the grid on these McNary is a run-of-the-river dam, meaning stores some water in the forebay to create but water flows more or less at the rate it flowing into the forebay that can't be used for through one or more of these 22 enormous lift As you can imagine, all this infrastructure not just hydrologic conditions like floods demands and irrigation dictating how and when it's biological criteria too. The to a huge population of migratory fish, and lampreys, and over the years, through and just plain good sense by the powers at be, impacts to that wildlife and the benefits of aspect of the operation of McNary Dam is driven prepared each year in collaboration with a litany several other dams in the Columbia River system This fish bible includes prescriptive details and including the fish passage structures too. the people who are going to use it are huge aspects of McNary and other similar dams On top of the hydropower plant and the spillway, McNary help wildlife get from one side to the other Let's look at the fish ladders first. A big contingent of the fish needing past McNary ocean trying to get upstream to reproduce motivated to swim against the current, so a fish to do just that, and it starts with attraction both upstream and downstream, which can be current. Also, dams are large, and fish generally show them how to get around. Luckily, in sensitive to the sound and motion of splashing huge electric pumps lift water from the tailrace runs along the powerhouse. As the water splashes they can orient with the flow through the ladder. even seeing it in person, so I had a couple All these entrances provide options the opportunity and likelihood Once they're in, they make their way upstream up the insurmountable height of the dam into their own pace. Most of the fish go through weirs. There's even a window near the top fish and identifies their species. This data is and it's even posted online if you the fish pass through a trash rack that keeps journey to their spawning grounds. The goal is that and it works. Every year hundreds of thousands their way past McNary Dam. If you include the And it's not just bony fish that find updates are to help lamprey passage. I'm working on another video that will take a much work, so stay tuned for that one, but it's not the up, must come down, or at least their offspring McNary Dam needs a way to get those juvenile thanks to gravity, it's much simpler to go I definitely wouldn't want but juvenile fish can make it through specialized structures are often installed fish to swim through the spillway. McNary Dam has water column. But salmon like to stay relatively currents in the flow. Many dams on the Columbia called a weir, that is more conducive to The other path for juveniles to take is to be of other dams are equipped with a sophisticated make it that far. and that all starts with the These enormous structures are specially designed with lots of narrow turbines while excluding juvenile fish. They are rides along the top of the power house. Each turbine to redirect fish upwards while the water debris to make sure they fish don't get trapped but even a basic screen like this requires a because they are absolutely critical Once the fish have been diverted by the screens, massive collection channel. This was originally but now it's basically a fish cathedral The juveniles come out in these conduits while grates along the bottom concentrate them out on the downstream face of the dam. Along the that scan any of the fish that have been equipped valves and pumps and flumes. In the past, this could be loaded up in barges and transported it was better to just release them downstream juveniles are separated for counting so scientists Then the juveniles continue their journey in the Avian predation is a serious problem and cormorants love salmon just like the mortality caused by dams isn't the stress of but simply that birds and other predatory fish take advantage of the migrating fish. This juvenile bypass of the downstream channel where flows are and McNary is equipped with a lot of All this infrastructure at McNary Dam to help and evolved over time, and in fact, a lot of first built. And that's one of the most Dam and the Pacific Northwest National Lab: that science happens here at the PNNL Aquatics I spent an entire day just chatting with all the scientists and researchers For example, not all the juvenile salmon Some inevitably end up going right through. You is the worst thing that could happen to a fish, concern. A hydropower turbine's job is to extract In practice, that means the pressure coming and that pressure drop happens rapidly. It doesn't in pressure can affect the swim bladder that what that does to a fish and how newer designs electronic analogues to the real thing that they other side. Compare that data to what we already area of research at PNNL), and you can quickly and What's awesome is seeing how that research infrastructure that have a huge effect installed at Ice Harbor Dam upstream were fish passage in mind to reduce injury for study found that more than 98% of fish and nearly all the large hydropower dams in them installed in the future. And it's not just talked to researchers who study live fish, how and what they can withstand. Just the engineering a feat in itself. I talked to a coatings expert on nets and screens. I talked to an energy to decrease impacts to fish from ramping them up And I spent a lot of time learning about how they interact with human made structures. of sensors that can be implanted into fish for picked up by nearby receivers that can precisely if you want to study fish behavior accurately, you so those sensors have to be tiny. PNNL has barely make out the details. You also want to make fish, so researchers showed me how you do that those acoustic tags require power, and tiny own right) sometimes aren't enough for long-term generators that can keep the tags running for device creates power as the fish swims... and Of course, migratory fish aren't the only part and with all the competing interests, issue is fully solved. These are messy, and big investments in resources The salmon pink and blue paint in the powerhouse symbolizing the water that drives the station, and and its environmental, economic, and cultural at the heart of what a lot of engineering is all and learn more about how energy researchers, regulators, activists, and engineers collaborate resources we depend on. I think Alison Colotelo, My crew and I spent two full days in engineers about these complicated issues. in those two days than anything especially about how dams can isolate populations passage systems like those at McNary. And that's really interesting I think, because we've and the ways people and fish adapt to those Sam, of the Wendover Productions channel has about the most remote places on Earth and how and 15 episodes. They're so good, and if you want to You've probably heard of Nebula before. It's a including me, as a way to boost the creators. It's totally ad-free, and there are no industry executives or big or die. That means people like Brian from Real and a lot of others get to make the stuff be so careful to please the YouTube algorithm You can think of it like an employee-owned co-op. different formats, and extra content and perks there early, before they come out here, and my possible to make if not for the dedicated people streaming platforms out there right now, and no but I also know that if you're watching a other stuff on Nebula that you're going to click the link below and you'll get 40% off an 30 dollars, for an entire year's access at than 3 dollars a month. If you're with me that video, I hope you'll consider subscribing. Thank