When I first started making video essays a few years ago, I was really naive. I thought that if I just make videos where I present arguments and information that I find convincing, then of course everyone else would just agree with. So, for example, I made one video about Sweden's most expensive highway project, hoping that other people would agree with me that this is a disaster. I made another one about the Swedish tax system to show how unfair it is and I made another one about the problems with private equity. Well, the list goes on. But lately I've been thinking, is it even possible to change people's mind, or will any attempt to try to do so only reinforce what that person already believes? So I decided to read up on that, and what I realized was really surprising to me, and I want to share that with you. And to do that, I will have to I'll have to talk to you about the viral dress and about Dead Poets Society. In 1990, the same year, supernatural romance movie "Ghost" was the world's highest grossing movie, same-sex marriage was still not legal in any country on Earth. "I believe that marriage is between a man and a woman" "I do not support gay marriage" Then Netherlands legalized same sex marriage, followed by Belgium and some Canadian provinces. And today, same sex marriage is legal in 37 countries across the globe and the countries where homosexuality is illegal are becoming fewer and fewer. I have to tell you, as I said, I've been going through I think same sex couples should be able to get married. For many centuries, doctors treated patients by removing a small amount of blood from patients bodies, a practice known as bloodletting. This was based on the belief that most illness was caused by an imbalance essential fluids, known as the humoral theory of medicine. Then, in the 1860s, Louis Pasteur discovered microorganisms, that many illnesses are caused by microorganisms and the humoral theory of medicine was Today, bloodletting is recognized and even dangerous method that it actually is. For most of history, slavery has been widespread. In the first century BC. Julius Caesar enslaved hundreds of thousands of people and when the first president of the United States, George Washington, died, he owned as many as 124 slaves. And as late as 1802, Napoleon essentially legalized slavery when he signed a law reversing a previous ban on slavery. But 150 years later, the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, prohibiting slavery. And while issues with modern day essentially all countries have These examples illustrate how we humans have a remarkable ability to be completely wrong about things, but also that we are able to replace our worldviews and our beliefs. But what does it take for that to happen? What does it take for us to update our beliefs? Well, probably more than just facts and information. 200 years ago, Benjamin Franklin predicted that if we just build public libraries, then the common man will soon become as educated as the aristocracy. Franklin's perspective is an example of the information deficit model a model, assuming that as long as we make sure that we all get access to the same facts, we will all agree. But if the last 20 years have taught us anything, it's that equal access to facts does not preclude disagreement, that it doesn't automatically lead to big shifts in opinion. With the internet, we today have more information than ever before. Yet we constantly argue over Is climate change real? Was 9/11 a hoax? Is the Earth flat? "This was the largest audience to ever witness" "an inauguration, period." "You're saying it's a falsehood." "Sean Spicer, our press secretary," "gave alternative facts to that." "Wait a minute, alternative facts?" In 2016, the Oxford Dictionary named post-truth its international word of the year, that disagreements cannot be explained only by a lack of information. The information deficit model clearly doesn't hold water. But despite that, many of us, me included, keep believing that if other people just see the same information and facts as we do, then surely they will agree with us. So in chat groups, around dinner tables and in YouTube videos, we present facts hoping that people will change their minds. But they don't. Why? Well, maybe because they don't even see the same counters as you do. Now for the great debate. This one has everyone asking In 2015, this picture of a dress went viral. To me, this dress is blue and black. To many others, perhaps including you. The dress is gold and white. We see the same picture, the same facts, yet we make completely different conclusions about its color. The picture of the dress actually isn't blue and black, and it isn't white and gold. The picture is overexposed and causes ambiguity about the dress's true colors. So the colors you see are actually to eliminate the ambiguity. But why does my brain simulate blue and black? And your brain simulates white and gold? Researchers at New York University seems to have come up with a good with adding different colors. They found that people who are night owls who have spent much time are likely to see the dress as blue and black. People who are early birds and have spent more time in natural light, they are more likely to see the dress as white and gold. This circumstance, whether you've been exposed to much artificial light or natural light, is an example of what psychologists refer to as priors. When our brains encounter something ambiguous, like a picture that lacks information on color, on these priors to make sense And since we all have different priors, look at the same evidence but still disagree when it comes to our conclusions. And importantly, our priors don't just influence what colors we see. They affect all sorts of ambiguous situations that we encounter. So, based on my priors, I believe it's unfair that some people and that it's mostly luck that determines So when I see evidence that I conclude that this is bad and I make a video essay about it. John Doe, on the other hand, because of his priors, he believes it's good that some people have more than others. And that effort and merit determines So he concludes that the tax system is great, and when he sees my video about it, he concludes that I'm an idiot and he tells me as much in my comment section. Same evidence and facts, yet we reach completely different conclusions. But and here's where it gets really interesting. This process that takes place to the left of the dotted line is often completely unconscious to us. Our conscious experience isn't even aware that the picture lacks information about the correct colors. We don't feel ambiguous about the color we're only consciously aware of the result of this process, the conclusion and this result, the color we see, or how we view the tax system, they don't feel like opinions. They feel like the actual truth. When we disagree about the color of the dress and about many other things, we don't just believe that we are right and other people are wrong. We believe that we are sane and honest and other people, they are crazy or they're lying. It also turns out that once our brains make conclusions, it's quite reluctant to change its mind. This is Jean Piaget, also known as the father According to him, when we humans encounter information that is ambiguous or goes against what we already believe, what Piaget calls disequilibrium. So to resolve this disequilibrium, the brain can use one of three strategies. First, it can ignore the information. Second, it can assimilate information, or three, it can accommodate to the new information. So most of the information our senses receive, our brains just ignore. But when we do notice new information our brain's most likely response is to use assimilation. In other words, we assimilate information into our prior understanding of the world. We basically interpret new information as confirmation of what we already know. Assimilation is basically However, in the rare situations when our brains realizes that it's completely impossible to assimilate new information then the brain stops trying to assimilate and instead accommodates the new information by adjusting A classic example is a child who sees a furry animal with four legs and learns from its parents that it's called a dog. This kid will then create a category in its brain for four legged animals called the dogs. But that same kid later sees another animal with four legs, for example, The child's brain registers uncertainty and ambiguity because this animal obviously looks and walks and sounds very different from the dogs But since this animal is also furry the kid will solve this ambiguity by assimilation by calling this other animal a dog. Only when the kid has been corrected repeatedly will the child switch from assimilation and create a new category, the category of goat or horse or cat. Assimilation is the default mode for our brains, the brain will go to great lengths to avoid accommodation altogether. For example, in the 1950s, the psychologist Leon Festinger, who coined the term cognitive dissonance, infiltrated a doomsday cult. The members of this cult had given away all of their possessions because they a spaceship would come to save That day arrived, but there was no flood and there was no spaceship. But instead of accommodating this new information, admitting that they had been wrong, the cult assimilated the information that there was no spaceship into their existing models, and told reporters that it was the positive vibes that had persuaded God to prevent the flood. To paraphrase the author David McRaney, when we encounter information that goes against what we believe, we often solve, "I might be wrong" with, "but I'm probably not". Faced with overwhelming evidence that we're wrong about something, research shows that we humans will sooner or later, accommodate. If we didn't have the capacity to accommodate new information at some point, then we wouldn't have survived as a species. But importantly, before we reach a level and update our views, information that goes against our beliefs will actually make us more, not less, certain of our already existing beliefs. And as the sociologist Brooke Harrington explains, SD is larger than PD. Social death is more frightening Being a good member of a group is more important to us humans than being right. When we encounter evidence not only we hold personally, but also the group we belong to. Then we're particularly hesitant to accommodate. So based on what we've discussed so far, it seems to me like it's exceedingly difficult to change someone's mind. But let's recall those examples that we started with. History does show that seismic shifts happen in politics, morality, science, and sometimes these shifts happen fast. This ability to adapt, to learn, and to change our minds to accommodate is arguably our greatest strength as a species. Without that strength, our human ancestors would probably have been wiped out by the Ice age 1.5 million years ago. But what does it take for profound shifts to take place, and then what implications should that have for what I do on this YouTube channel? In the final scene of Dead Poets Society, the hero teacher, played by the late Robin Williams, has been fired by the authoritarian headmaster, Mr. Nolan. As Robin Williams is about to leave the school for the last time, the student played by Ethan Hawke, suddenly stands up on his desk to show his support for Robin Williams. Mr. Nolan gets furious and shouts at Ethan Hawke to sit down, and for a while we're not sure what will happen. Then, after a tense moment, another student gets up on And soon more than half of the students are standing up on their desks. This scene illustrates the power of what the sociologist Mark Granovetter calls conformity thresholds. This term refers to how many people a certain behavior or beliefs before we're willing to do so ourselves. So if you place the population on a spectrum based on their conformity thresholds, then at one end of the spectrum, we will have people with low conformity thresholds, so-called early adopters. So let's say that you have a 0% conformity threshold. Then you're willing to be the very first person to adopt a behavior or belief in that scene from Dead Poets Society. Ethan Hawke has a 0% conformity threshold. He's willing to stand up for Robin, is willing to do so. On the other end of the spectrum, we have people with high conformity threshold so-called holdouts. So if you're at a 100% conformity threshold, you're unwilling to adopt something new unless essentially everyone you know is already doing it. Some of these people who are still sitting down at the end of the scene may Maybe they want to support Robin Williams, unless essentially everyone, including the headmaster, is also doing so. Our conformity thresholds can vary depending on the situation and topic, obviously, but overall most of us will most of the time be somewhere and the population will typically form a bell shaped normal distribution curve along the spectrum. But here's where I think it gets really interesting. If a new behavior or belief will spread in a population does not depend only on the overall conformity thresholds, but it also depends on the connection between different groups. Let's imagine three groups group A, group B, and group C. In each group, there are ten with different conforming to thresholds ranging from 0% to 90%. Between groups A and B, there's between a 30% low threshold Between groups B and C, there is a weak tie between a 70% And between groups C and A, there's a weak So let's now say that the early adopter in group A adopts a new behavior, a new belief. This early adopter constitutes 10% of group A so she makes a person with a 10% conformity threshold in this group who in turn triggers the 20% threshold person who in turn triggers the 30% person. And this person then influences not only the 40% person in Group A, but also the early adopter that she knows through a weak tie in Group B. That behavior then spreads throughout Group B to the holdout in Group B, who influences the low threshold person he knows in Group C, and by then even the holdout in Group A has been flipped and influences the early adopter in Group C, which means that Group C will have new influence coming in from two directions. This is how researchers see that behaviors and beliefs spreads through societies. And why is this relevant? Well, because, and this is key, this shows that even if people remain as stubborn and conservative as ever, change is still possible. Because even if the individual conformity thresholds are in changing, as long as new connections, weak ties are formed between different groups, then all of a sudden the whole network could So let's say, for instance, that the weak ties between groups A, B, and C would have looked like this instead. Then the new behavior would never have spread beyond group B. That's why some ideas can remain isolated and lead nowhere for very long times. Then, when the network becomes ready because new connections have formed, then all of a sudden these ideas can change everything. "I have to tell you." "As I said, I've been going through an evolution on this issue." "I think same sex couples" "should be able to get married." In other words, does it make sense for me mind through my video essays like this one? Well, yes, I believe it does, because at some point the network and the beliefs that I am advocating for. To quote David McRaney again: The ideas that change the world are the ones in the heads of people who refuse to give up. I'm Andres Acevedo, and this is The Market Exit. I will tell you why and how I made this video. But first I need to say that I love making video essays like this and I want to make more of them. But for that to be possible, I'm going to need your support. So if you like this video, please help me out by sharing it with clicking subscribe, and leaving a comment. And if you really like what I do, please consider helping me out by becoming a patreon.com/themarketexit To my existing patrons, thank you very much for being with me. So I decided to make this video after reading David McRaney's book, and the things I talk about in this video I learned from that book. So if you found this essay interesting, you will absolutely love David McRaney's book. Obviously his book includes so much in this essay, for example, he talks about what techniques you can use to change people's minds in 1 to 1 meetings. It's super fascinating and it's a great read. Through David McRaney's book I also and the example in my video essay about how change spreads through weak ties comes from this book, which is also a fantastic one. It's basically about why some movements, like the Occupy Wall Street movement, failed, while other movements like the Orange Revolution in Ukraine didn't fail. So be sure to check out that book. You won't be disappointed. I should say, by the way, that I'm not sponsored by anyone to promote these books. I do read a lot though, so if you're an author or a publisher, reach out. Maybe we should collaborate. Lastly, thank you to Johan Bergman, a long time friend of the channel who gave Thank you for watching, see you next time.