Why do we want the things that we want? Growing up, I didn't know much about Italy I didn't know which towns my grandparents were from I didn't know this place existed until coming here in my 20s In those days I never imagined that I was completely focused on career goals So when I was asked whether I'd like to inherit this house and land, I had mixed feelings about the idea I knew that accepting would come with many problems to resolve And new demands on my time and attention But slowly, a vision of a possible future started Since then my wife Rica and I have been coming to do restoration work and our son visited for the first time last year This time we're planning to stay inside the house itself There are things we wouldn't notice about the building unless we stay here First, we'll need to do some minor It has been raining non-stop for weeks so we Most of the projects that I had planned for this trip which will need to be delayed now due to the rain Instead we'll have to come up with other projects and learn how to do them on site Initially, I didn't know anything about stone houses But Giovanni and I attended a course on lime mortars together a few years ago Thinking back, learning about lime was when we and I think that working together has drawn us closer as a family It's actually quite dry There's no hint of moisture up here. That's a bit of a surprise. This is where I accidentally broke those and it's completely dry, at least up in the attic. I do notice that there's an issue with water kind of falling down onto the windowsill and rolling into the room but it seems like that's due to the windowsill being installed incorrectly But it's fixable. Easy fix, at least for the short term. See that? Yeah. It fell off there? Yeah. Did you notice that it's all joinery here? This is, like, a wooden peg. Yeah, I see a peg here. But there are nails here yeah for the retention to the wall? Yeah. Well, where do you think this window was? This was probably up there. This one, probably. Because actually my grandmother told me that that one is not original to the house. I think they had that installed in the 50's. Ah, that's why there's all that cement there. Right, it has a cement frame, whereas this one is carved stone. Right. Okay, so this one was up there. Yeah, ... we might actually have two of these. This is the outside, because there's the glass here. But where would the nails go? There was probably a wooden frame. You'd have a wooden inner frame, and this would be secured to that frame. The inside looks pretty nice. This is the inside that I'm showing now. So this is what it would have looked They've got these like inner shutters that open but keep the glass shutters closed. And the main ones open. And since it's original to the house, or more I like the color too. Maybe we could take measurements of it and make a copy. Sure It has been raining non-stop since We've been trying to do some interior work, but it's slow going. I had a lot of things delivered to one of my neighbors to bring up here and I've had to bring it up by hand because the car can't get through this muddy road. That's okay, though. I feel strong today. I am almost finished, but one of the packages There's water running under here. Some kind of ... I can hear it! Oh I'm so curious to see what's under there. Oh, wow! Maybe it's time to light a fire Let's do that. I'd like to get like to get dry. There are some clues that this house once The lower part of the house was built when my Before that, it's likely the second floor extended further out than it does today. if you look at the corner of the building, you'll see there are stones jutting out. There's also a doorway that was filled in. These old farm houses were often custom built If the building code allows it, we might eventually But I would want to do so in a way that's still grounded in the local architectural style. We'll be using this room as our bedroom. I am removing loose plaster so that it doesn't fall while we're sleeping. it's a three coat lime plaster system, so basically just sand and lime. And over the years the top coat has separated. I like the fact that most of the materials in this building come directly from nature. Much of it could be returned to the earth without doing harm. Uh oh, where is he going? Having electricity and internet access in particular is crucial for us. In fact, internet access is the foundation of everything we'd like to eventually do here. Fortunately, we have a direct line of sight to a 4G Tower. We've already tested a mobile data router and it works quite well. Oh man. Before the internet and the possibility of remote work, the story about rural versus urban living was that in rural settings employment options are limited, there's no access to high quality education, access to culture is limited, that sort of thing. Certainly 100 years ago that was true, but how true is it today, and how true will it be in 20 years time? When my grandparents left Italy, it took weeks to travel from the Italian countryside to their destinations across the Atlantic. Today the same trip takes less than a day. I think the line between what used to be a dichotomous choice is starting to blur. The decision to keep this place isn't about rejecting modernity or glamorizing the past, it's more about looking forward and seeing possibilities for new models of living that could be made viable thanks to the internet While this project only represents a small part of what we're doing in life right now, it has an important role to play in a broader long-term strategy. It will take several days of sun before we can drive up to the house. Every time it seemed like the rain had passed, it I got tired of waiting for the ground to dry, I did a rough estimate of the total weight of things carried, and it came out to over a thousand kilograms carried 150 meters uphill. That's over 2,200 pounds of materials. Being slowed down by the rain has been I'm trying to stay calm, though. There's no sense in filling this place with negative feelings and bitter memories. I think we can lean it this way, and you pick up from your end. Is that all right? Yeah. And then just bring it in, slowly. Got it? Growing up, I kind of hated the idea of doing physical work. But I've been surprised by how much I enjoy it here. I'm sure it helps that everything I'm doing is by my own choice, but I think the more significant reason is that this work is so meaningful to me. There's the meaning as a multi-generational the role it might play in our lives and in our son's life there's the family history I've learned in the process of all this, this the lessons learned from that history and understanding of my own life in the context of it Is this going to work? Let's see... I also think our son might be getting more out of these trips than I realized initially There are the obvious things like the seeing the beautiful landscapes here, and But beyond that, I think there's enormous I hope it'll help him learn to be comfortable with pursuing his own ideas and just figuring out how to move forward even when there's not an obvious path to take From the beginning of our relationship, and having long conversations about the things we're thinking about. I kind of see our restoration work as except now there's something tangible being And slowly our son is joining us in that He watches us closely. He understands And as I look around at paintbrush I relive the memories of us doing that work together it turns this building into something more than just stone it makes me feel something And I hope that someday he'll feel what I feel when he comes back here.