- A legacy in Silicon Valley. - Palo Alto's kind of this mythical place. - Humans have always searched Atlantis, El Dorado, Shangri-La, but none of them have actually It started on a typical workday for me when I was sifting through maps which, yes, is something Oh my God. Paper maps, digitized maps, animated maps. I just can't get enough. So I'm sitting there and I stumble upon this. This is a super old British with a giant island off the West Coast. The island is labeled California. Okay, so clearly some cartographer just got this totally wrong But wait, here's another (mid tempo rhythmic music) What is going on here? This one's from 1785 or from 1750. This one's from 1690 and from 1650. Like, these maps of are spanning over 200 years. Drawn by the Dutch and the Germans and the British and the Japanese, everyone is making a map Is this like a tectonic plates thing? Like, was California an island? Because as we dug, we found California as an island everywhere. I had to get to the bottom of this to figure out what was going on here. Luckily, I live in Washington DC so there's somewhere I need to (uptempo string music) - [Train Announcer] This is - Hey, in case anyone is in DC and is looking for a nuclear The Library of Congress. (suspenseful string music) - [Library Worker] Hi there. - [Johnny] That's also my - Really? I love it, it's just so beautiful. Look at this puppy. Wow. Wow. Oh my God. So wait, this is really weird. I'm looking at these original maps, 1600s. California is an island. But then look at this one. This is a map from like and it shows California like, decades earlier in like the 1500s. They had it right and it looks pretty we know today. And then, suddenly, the whole world started mapping California as an island. What? This is super weird. (mid tempo techno music) I vow now to figure out what the hell (uplifting music) This first started as a nerdy but soon we fell into a way deeper story than we signed up for. The story of a mythical full of gold and magic and dreams, fueled by people who weren't but rather in dreams of something bigger, something different, something that may or may not truly exist. This island teaches us something bigger than just how humans draw maps, it's actually more about how about how fake ideas spread and why. So let me show you how, California was an island (upbeat music) Hey, wake up for a second. Do you mind if I chat - I guess. - I make YouTube videos and, in order to do that, I have a business that and the business is from sponsorships. And so I'm making a video today that's sponsored by a which is a company I've used for like a decade, even before Storyblocks is like a massive library of visual and audio assets that you can use to So creators of all size, giant creative teams, can subscribe to Storyblocks at whatever budget or and can have an unlimited library of like 4K amazing stock footage that is diverse, that is ever-growing. There's like thousands I use this all the time for my videos. One of the big challenges for creators is that it's really hard and shoot stuff and so when you're making a video, you don't have have a lot of With Storyblocks you to an unlimited amount of and animation templates. It's a really freaking good deal. In the video I'm making right now it's about maps of California and why California used to be an island. You're gonna see like tons that you won't even know but it is, because I use it all the time. So, anyway, thank you Storyblocks Thank you for listening. There's a link in my description. Clicking that link helps but it also sends you to Storyblocks so you can check out their pricing plan, find something that fits your budget. So now I'm headed back to the studio to figure out what the hell being mapped as an island. One, two, three, four, five. Okay, this is California and this is Baja, California, And this is the Sea of Cortez. It's not a full-blown sea, it's actually a gulf, But we call it the Sea of Cortez and you're about to find out why. I actually went here once when I was a 19 year-old Mormon missionary living in Baja, California for two years. Anyway, that is not important. Let's talk about how California originally was an idea, a myth. It was a fictional setting from 1510 in Spain, like, 500 years ago. California was like Atlantis The author described it as an island populated by black women, without any men existing there. On the entire island there was no metal other than gold and it was ruled by Queen Again, it was a fake place, this is not a real place. This is a guy writing a But while the author doesn't he basically says that it is, quote, &quot;at the right hand of the Indies.&quot; Reminder that the Indies is like over here in Southeast Asia. This novel was published in Spain about 50 years after the So printed books were like a and this book was really popular. Oh, and by the way, the book also mentions that these like women warriors, were, quote, &quot;of beautiful So you have new technology, books, and beautifully robust women, basically clickbait for They were out there exploring the world and reading this book Oh, and remember, at this time, these Spanish sailors are that Columbus had run into when he was trying to find a So it's like 10 years after Columbus and Spain is sending people and by explore we mean wink and like destroy the And one of those expeditions Hernan Cortes. He came over as a young dude but he quickly became one of like detail-oriented He goes on a big expedition where he takes his 500 men and 16 horses to go look for gold. But Cortes was secretly for this expedition, he was reading the romance novel that everyone else was reading and he kind of wanted to find California, the fictional place in the book. This would be like some on a hike or something and he's like, I secretly This kind of reminds me of and I like secretly Like that kind of actually happened, I was young. And I was like, what if Like, I get it Cortes, I get it. You read it in the book and you're like this Cortes, a legitimate Spanish Explorer, is now looking for a fake place in a book. So Cortes, after he stumbles allies with their with his guns and his smallpox, small side note that can be He eventually makes it over here. Oh, by the way, Cortes was kind of going he didn't have permission to do this. And the Spanish leadership So much so that Cortes had justifying how good all Anyway, Cortes sends out a mission to go explore a little like around here. Holy shit, they found something! Cortes is so giddy that he writes a letter back to the king saying that his men (speaking in foreign language) who, quote, &quot;affirm (speaking in foreign language) inhabited only by women. And there are no men, that men come every once in a while for them to like conceive but they only keep the female children. (speaking in foreign language) It's only 10 days away (speaking in foreign language) and that this island is and gold, y oro.&quot; What? Holy shit. No men, only women, rich in gold. (mid tempo music) And where does Cortes Well, back when the world looked like this in these people's minds, Cortes is just to the right of the Indies, which is exactly the location for California. Cortes just discovered California. Oh man, this is amazing. I can feel the excitement of Cortes who literally has spent years and now he thinks he's But this is not what the So the king of Spain's like, no, dude, no, we're not looking for So he cuts off all of the funding for any of these like expeditions. So Cortes turns to his own personal wealth and starts funding these to go map out and find - Now I have to go to California. - He personally goes on a voyage and starts mapping and mapping, and, lo and behold, he's finding what looks like an island. And they set up a colony and they name the island California, after the island of Queen (joyful music) Okay, okay, okay. Spoiler alert. Remember that Cortes is like right here. He's looking up this massive gulf that he thinks is like a full-blown sea that you can like circumnavigate, but he's just like at the the peninsula. And, worst of all, he's to keep exploring this He's got California fever. Maybe the first but definitely not the last to have it. - We're going to California. - So Cortes keeps going and He's like, if this is an island then that means that this and over the top of North America. And maybe there's a whole strait that goes all the way back to Spain, making it super easy for us And so he keeps mapping oh no, womp womp, Cortes ruined the myth for everyone, and he like wasted away a bunch But wait a minute, this is like still the Like, you see how much Like, this isn't the story. What's crazy is what happens next. Because even though Cortes found out that California wasn't an island, this was all before this happened. And this is where the I am H-O. Because somehow, even after all of this, California still somehow managed that it was an island Okay, so after the whole Cortes California dreaming incident, Spain went on to ignore mapping California for a very long time. I mean, they were really busy conquering and destroying and pillaging a lot of other places in the region. That is until the late 1500s, where they catch wind of a British sailor who happens to be their who apparently just landed here in what was gonna become Oregon to claim all of this land for Britain. And Spain was like, oh shit, we gotta get back in the what was it called again? Cortes called it like California after like from the novel or something. Anyway, let's get some guys back up there to like map it out. We can't be asleep at the wheel while the British are showing up on the West Coast of North America. So they send out this expedition of guys to go map the West Coast of California. Because, after all, if you can conquer it. That's all they were thinking Okay, and this is where things get so good all because of another California dreamer. This guy, Fray Antonio de la Ascension, a Spanish dude who wasn't or a cartographer, he was kind of like a Catholic priest. Aboard this expedition and Fray Antonio was He had some knowledge of map-making but like he was literally the plan B in case the main map maker died. His job was really just to be religious. Boy, did he do a lot more than that. Fray Antonio, the peon assistant, is actually the most important person in this entire story, because he had an agenda. He really wanted Spain to in California. He felt the pull of California, this mythical cool place on the West Coast and it was his life's of Spain coming to California and setting up more permanent settlements. No one on board this expedition they were there just simply that's all they were doing. So they're going along this route, Fray Antonio is on the 'cause he's literally not doing anything. He's looking overboard at this land sort of in the distance, and he starts to see of total bias. This bias that California was amazing and that Spain should settle it. So they're passing like right here on their way to the West Coast and Fray Antonio writes, quote, &quot;Here begins the entrance which continues all the way that actually goes above North America. And that, if you go, you can find passage and navigation to Spain.&quot; Wait, what? Antonio, you're sitting on looking at basically this. And from that you've deduced and that there's a passage that goes back to Spain? I swear California does this to people. It makes them ignore reality - Yet the thought of and starting fresh in California, it's so tempting and exhilarating. - That is a theme here. It happened to Cortes, it's The guys on the ship are we get it, you want Spain to settle in California but that's not what this mission is about. We're here to map the West so just like chill out and do your job. Sit around and be religious.&quot; And Fray Antonio, like, He's like &quot;San Diego is a very fine bay, very fine anchorage, protected from all the Anyway, this expedition goes on to fulfill its original purpose, they mapped the West Coast of California and they create this decent looking map. But Fray Antonio walked with a very different view. He was convinced that and that there was a that existed all the way back to Spain. And he was so audacious to say, quote, &quot;I believe it will be what he's created, what he saw, &quot;for revising and correcting since the existing maps than what they are, in fact. Translation, Spain, you to what I saw when I looking over the boat, because California is an island. I mean, the confidence in Fray Antonio, like, makes He tries to get Spain to change their maps to make California an island. It got to the point where the had to actually say, dude, you're wrong. He said, quote, &quot;Since no or Strait of Anian&quot;, which is that northern strait, &quot;exists, and since California has little credit should be Like dude, Fray Antonio, you're fake news, you've been debunked, give it up. But Fray Antonio does not give it up. For the next two decades, he continues to pitch his Sending loads of reports and maps of his version of California, what he saw, all with the hope that and come settle California. And he started to actually He was pitching this, he to like spread this idea I saw it with my own eyes. And this is where it gets crazy because guess who enters Early 1600s is like the Thousands of pirates were sailing the seas and because Spain was like and conquering places, a Spanish ship was always One such Spanish ship was sailing back from and onboard this ship was with a copy of his fake map that showed California as an island. And the ship was taken They took the ship, they and they stumble upon this like a deepfake of the And the pirates are The Spanish have California as an island. Little context here, maps back then were kind they didn't share maps very much. So these Dutch guys are like holy shit, we just discovered a big Spanish secret that California is an island and that there's actually a strait that goes over the top of North America. And they've been keeping So this map from Fray Antonio which, at the time, were rising as like really And boom. A few years later, the fake Here it is, this little map on the cover You see, for the first time, California not connected to the mainland. But wait, Cortes already mapped this and showed that this wasn't No, what is happening? The answer is Fray Antonio and pirates. The myth was back. Shortly after that, another map pops up. The Dutch are slowly adopting the idea of California as an island and, in true fake news form, everyone else was like, well they said that California is an island, so I guess it is. Word eventually spread to London, where a famous map maker made this map. Wait a minute, I know this map. This is the one that in this whole entire topic. Whoa, hold on. And now I finally understand what it says in this lower left. &quot;California, sometimes supposed to be a part of the Western continent but since by a Spanish it is found to be a goodly island.&quot; British cartographer, verified account, retweets Fray Antonio's delusion and suddenly this map with is legitimized and starts &quot;Seems legit&quot; says a Dutch cartographer, boom, retweet. Then to Germany, then to then to Sweden and Turkey is now drawing and Austria is drawing And now Japan is drawing Retweet, retweet, retweet. Oof, man, where are the mods on this one? Who's gonna fact check this? The entire globe now thinks And so, yeah, this is how it happened. Lots of wishful thinking, a few crazy coincidences with pirates. The whole world thinks for 200 years, 200 years, that's like several lifetimes. All because this one guy was and he wouldn't let it go. Now, of course, eventually explorers would and debunk it, and maps, slowly but surely, start to phase out But I wanna argue that this and his wishful thinking, I kind of think that Starting with Cortes and California has continued to at least it has on European people coming to California looking looking for gold, eventually actually finding gold. Like, which is kind of insane to me that the prophecy from a kind of came true in 1849, when a bunch of people As the local people who had been in California were exterminated and replaced California remained and where people go to dream big. - Palo Alto's kind of this mythical place where, you know, all - [Johnny] Like Cortes, who spent all of his money what California was or Fray Antonio, who spent trying to convince people something special and, ultimately, it worked. People go to California to chase dreams that usually aren't grounded in any sense of reality. - You've been on the cover of magazines, you could transform healthcare not only here in America, - They go and they push on some vision of something new, even when those dreams rest to the whole world. Was that too on the nose? Am I stretching the analogy too much with disinformation and propaganda and Fray Antonio and Silicon Valley? Like, are you getting this? I'll stop. The point is that, to me, this of California as a place. Yeah, it's attached to the continent, we all know that but California kind of is an island. Ecologically, it has thousands of flora and fauna that don't exist anywhere else. Economically, it's the fifth And culturally, I mean, And the result is that, today, people still do what those guys were doing in the 15/1600s, coming west to California to chase dreams, to chase gold, to chase something new. In that sense, California is an island, Fray Antonio was right the whole time. Okay, see ya. (uplifting techno music)