Hydrogen is the most common substance in and one electron. Given that hydrogen this suggests that both protons and If the proton could decay, that behavior future evolution of the universe and it would Somehow this seems like something (intro music) Experimental high energy physicists like me spend what we do. But most of those particles Because those particles decay, they don't stick to do with the familiar world around us. However, not all particles are unstable. atom are well known inhabitants of the world we the right circumstances, so we can ignore them interesting particle to consider. It's because protons are one hundred percent stable, meaning that theory is the standard model. On the other hand, other theories predict that Some scientists hope these new theories so it's important to look for proton track. So, first, let's see why the standard model claims things called conservation laws. Conservation never change, no matter what. Three specific about proton decay- electric charge, energy, and Conservation of charge simply means that after the same as it was before the decay. Conservation of energy has a number of Einstein's equation E equals m c squared, which For particle decay, energy conservation just lighter particles. Baryon number is much less familiar. Baryons Quarks are one of the smallest known building contain three quarks each. Thus, protons and kinds of baryons. Baryon number is simple- every baryon has a have a baryon number of minus one. And to find For instance, at the LHC, when you smash two the collision has a baryon number of plus 2. complicated, the baryon number is still plus two, somewhere in the debris. According to the standard model, baryon all conserved. There are many more conserved you an example. In the case of neutron decay, an electron, and an electron antimatter neutrino. of plus one, baryon number is conserved in Since the neutron has zero charge, the proton has and the antineutrino has zero, we see electric after. And, on the energy front, when we add up the mass they all have a total mass less than the neutron. these three conservation laws go. Now let's think about proton decay. To do that, known to particle physicists, but are not common The positron is the antimatter equivalent of the just like the proton. The positron is also much the proton. Because the positron isn't pretty light, with a mass of about fifteen percent so it has a baryon number of zero. Finally, there is one more fact that is important, All other baryons are heavier than the proton. So let's consider proton decay. The standard charge, energy, and baryon number. Thus, a proton with a baryon number of plus would have to decay into some number a total mass less than a proton, a total baryon. But here's the problem. The proton is the which it would decay would be heavier than conservation. Therefore, because there is no of higher mass, protons can't decay into according to the standard model, the proton replacements of the standard model, some of those these models often say that a proton could decay this decay that charge is conserved and the mass before, so the decay is okay on charge and energy the decay, the baryon number is plus one and after in the standard model, but it's allowed in model. Thus, observing this decay would be an that protons don't decay very much. If they did, Luckily, these new replacement theories say Even back in the 1980s, when these theories were were about 10 to the 31 years. That sounds like a lot, but it's more than that. years. To simplify things, let's call that ten That means that shortest predicted lifetime times longer than the universe has existed. if you have a single proton and you're going to have to wait a very long time. But particle decay is a statistical process. It's might be 75 years or something, an unlucky few you have enough of them, some will decay early. If you do the math, you find that 30,000 metric 31 power protons. So, scientists did just that. located in Japan. It's a cylindrical tank buried The tank is about 40 meters tall and across, it's full of ultra-pure water. In 1996, the SuperK scientists turned their protons, among other things. While they've made a single proton decay. From that, researchers have the lifetime for that decay is more than years. So, does that mean that protons don't decay? that they don't decay quickly into positrons. We decay with a lifetime longer than that. We also of decay. And, at Fermilab, we're doing just that. Underground Neutrino Experiment, which we call built is to study the behavior of neutrinos. I is in the video description. However, the DUNE detector will be huge. 70,000 tons of liquid argon. While, for technical looking for proton decay, the DUNE detector of useful protons. And with all those protons and be keeping an eye out for proton decay. There are lots of different theories about possibility that a proton will decay into a experiment will be able to see such a decay, the for the possibility that a proton will decay into The DUNE experiment will identify that form And that's great news, as the water detectors mode. Of course, DUNE will also be looking for other the K meson channel that DUNE dominates. It will term, it's expected that the DUNE experiment see proton decay? I know how I would bet, but thing about research. You don't know the answer busy doing neutrino studies and the proton decay the implications of seeing proton decay, Fermilab is a super rare process and one that's very hard everyone would be doing it. If you like learning please like the video and subscribe to the channel you know you want to do it. It's how to keep everyone wants that because, of (outro music)