Friday. Joseph Shones was scouting some back roads in the Plumas National Forest. He spent the better part of the day navigating his Volkswagen with his family the next day. However, due to harsh weather conditions, his venture led to his car Miles away from help and he hopped out of his In a strikingly unlucky this physical exertion would lead to him enduring a heart attack and the worst possible time. He returns to the confines of his vehicle, enduring the pain and A short while later, though, Two sets of headlights coming and the shadows of what and a group of guys walking towards him while engaging in conversation. After realizing that this he fumbled out of the car Once he started doing so, and the conversation fell silent. A couple hours later, with Shones would encounter another anomaly, flashlights shining in the far distance. As expected, he'd jump out once more, vehemently pleading for However, this too, fell unsuccessful. Another couple of hours pass, and Shones' car runs out of gas. Fortunately, though, by this point, he'd felt well enough to exit his vehicle and begin a trek up the road towards a lodge roughly eight miles away. It was on this walk when he'd with no passengers inside. Considering the circumstances numerous people in the last few hours, he didn't think much of it. His trek to the mountain lodge took him to the early morning of the next day, and there he was able to and much-needed help to What he failed to realize, that on this journey, he that would soon become enveloped in one of the strangest unexplained February 24th. It was on this day when the lives of five long-time friends would converge. 30-year-old Jack Madruga within Yuba City and Oroville, California to pick up the others for a night out at a Chico State Basketball game. 29-year-old William Sterling, 32-year-old Theodore Weiher, made up this close-knit bunch, commonly referred to as The Boys, and they all were eager for a night out before competing in a The group played for a team an extracurricular segment of This was a rehabilitative center aimed at helping them learn a trade while overcoming their mild and mental health issues. It was because of this with their parents, and with that they'd return home later that night. Jack Madruga, the owner of his was known to have recently at a local fruit company. He was keen on handling his finances. However, due to what being &quot;slow in thought&quot;, to maintain a job. William Sterling was known He was deeply religious and reading literature to console Ted Weiher, the oldest of the bunch, enjoyed confiding in his friends, however, was known to lack basic common sense. According to his brother, over $100 on pencils for no reason. He was employed for a bit as but was later urged by his family to quit since they believed he Jack Huett was known to be slow to react, and typically hung around Weiher. He was taken under his wing, so to speak, and frequently required his such as dialing phone numbers. Gary Mathias was the most He was the only one that lacked However, in it's place, suffered severe mental health issues. The most prominent was his schizophrenia, which was the cause of his discharge from his brief time in the Army. Both Mathias and Jack in the group that possessed And so they embarked. A roughly one-hour trip was ahead of them, and conversation ensued surrounding sports and the anticipation of a win for themselves the very next day. The Boy's uniforms were by their parents, so Things were going good. (crowd cheering) 10:00 PM. Chico State's road opponent Considering the men's it's safe to say that celebratory They hit up a local convenience store by the name of Behr's, on a Hostess cherry pie, a lemon pie, a Snickers bar, a Marathon and a quart of milk. It's been noted that the that night was trying to close, and as a result was mildly Little did they know that to ever witness this group alive. The Boys jump back in the car and embark on their journey back home. They didn't make it back home that night. Instead of driving south, Their journey that night from Oroville to Chico. You would think that they'd head straight back down highway 99 and Highway Right before arriving in Oroville, the driver took a detour off of Highway 70 and onto the Oroville-Quincy Highway, a road that runs across Lake Oroville and up towards the Plumas National Forest. They drove until the road ended and continued their until their vehicle became It's unclear what happened but sometime after this arrival, they'd exit the confines of their car and embark into the night. Back at the lodge, Joe Shone's medical He paid no mind to the Mercury Montego since it wasn't out of the ordinary, and by mid-day he was able and headed home. Concurrently, since The Boys the mothers of Ted Weiher were contacting police pleading for help in finding their children. It was out of character for to be away from home for and so they believed that the - [Reporter] Government officials insist that this is an isolated incident. (audio garbled) We will continue to keep you - [Narrator] Tuesday. A forest ranger scouting the area notices an abandoned It was left on an unpaved a staggering two-and-a-half hours from where the basketball game took place. The vehicle appeared ordinary. It was unlocked, the window was down, and snack wrappers littered the seats. In the gas tank was more or and by the time it was Jarringly, considering up this trail is, the vehicle was found with minimal damage. Yuba County PD began and photos of the missing men, their search team would scour the region. This would soon prove difficult, however, considering the fact that of a harsh winter in the mountains. It's been reported that the search team nearly lost people on a couple occasions, and by Sunday, a harsh dumping nearly nine inches It was because of this, and the fact that time that led the police to call off the search until snow melt that spring. And as the case sat on hold, and the five men were left out there. Isolated. Nowhere to be found. June. A group of bikers are out on onto the site of an abandoned at the Daniel Zink The facility involved a main, with multiple smaller When they pulled in, malodorous smell emanating Immediately after, a broken window. They head inside, curious on and a body. From head to toe were bedsheets and after pulling them that it was one of the five men that disappeared four months prior. It was Ted Weiher, eighty pounds lighter, and with a considerable beard, lending credence to the possibility that he took refuge here In the bed, they discovered his With that, his feet badly frostbitten. It appeared that he passed and exposure to the elements. However, he strangely could have avoided this fate altogether. Since he took shelter inside he had access to ample heat sources and enough canned food to if they chose to stay there. While they found 12 open cans the vast majority of them were unopened, and it also appeared to block off the window that The scene? Bewildering, especially considering that it was 19 miles away from where Joe Shones spotted But all in all, it was the to get back on this case. The search continued. With mounting public attention search teams prowled the new focus area southeast of Bucks Lake. It would only take a day before they'd catch their next break, too. On June 8th, police discovered the corpses of Bill Sterling and Jack Madruga nearly five miles south of In Madruga's pocket, his car keys. It was noted that he'd been and was partially eaten by animals. For Sterling, his remains were scattered around the area a few feet away. He was nothing but bones. Since the bodies were and on a potential road they they believed that on their hike the pair couldn't press on any further and met their demise through a combination of the elements and mounting fatigue. Two days later, the father numerous articles of a couple of miles northeast Soon after, his remains. Interestingly, a short service blankets and flashlights were discovered lying by the road. This discovery led that he and Gary Mathias to the trailer with Ted for an undetermined amount of time. Their reasoning was of Mathia's tennis shoes left in the room that Weiher was found in. The theories are tenuous, that they spent most of their final weeks alongside Ted Weiher in the trailer. After he passed away, however, they wanted to get away from the corpse and set out towards the It was on this hike that the spending their final days Now, it would make perfect sense. However, to date, the have never been found. As of now, his missing leaving questions abound and the circumstances Without a doubt, there are The main one, though, why did they not head home? Backing up and taking a look at this case presents an anomaly that's Gary Mathias. He had a friend that lived in Forbestown, a few miles away from Oroville This has led many to that Mathias had more to do with this than some were letting on. If we take a look at mapping it from Chico to it makes sense. The Oroville-Quincy highway and the potential of Gary in the past wouldn't be far-fetched. So let's entertain the idea He drove the car up the and missed the turnoff to Forbestown Road. As a result of this, he until he eventually became stuck, miles up a mountain trail. Now up to this point, seem like honest, innocent mishaps. What led the mother of Jack however, was the fact that why, with five sizable guys, the situation with relative to abandon the car and press What was restricting and undoing the mistake that According to Jack's &quot;There was some force that They wouldn't have fled off in the woods like a bunch of quail. We know good and well that We can't visualize someone on those five men, but Considering the circumstances at the time, postulating the potential wouldn't be out of the ordinary. The state that Jack Madruga's to even further questions According to reports, his car was found in immaculate condition, considering the rugged on the road they'd taken. With five moderately-sized men packed into an already heavy undercarriage damage Given the fact that on this road before, it to navigate it with such Furthermore, when the car was found, Jack's window was rolled was extremely uncharacteristic of him. Bearing in mind the fact were the only two with drivers licenses, suspicion grew regarding the Was Jack Madruga truly at the wheel, or did Mathias demand the keys while taking them up there? Considering Mathias' numerous this wouldn't be entirely Prior to 1976, he was known however, straightened out after being prescribed schizophrenia medication. It was reported by his stepfather that, &quot;He had no notable contact with police during the two years leading and he hadn't 'gone haywire' The reason I bring this up all the time on various However, the evidence presented, his own disappearance, is While this is a notable there are others that Let's talk about Joseph Shones. We can recall that he of his Friday night stuck around the same area The Boys were. It's staggering that he under the unluckiest of circumstances. However, I digress. In his testimony, he claimed A group, consisting of a all walking within the path If we're assuming that his then this leaves us of the other party involved. Ted Weiher's sister has on the potential that the men that night sometime after Perhaps they saw an attack whether domestic or not, and decided to follow the family to help. I'm not entirely sure between Shones and the but hearing the cries of someone in need would surely spark some instead of shutting up entirely. I find it strange that and the conversations when he saw people. While the circumstances they definitely don't drive the That is, if his recollection was correct. You see, since this testimony came out, Shones' story had slightly While this, of course, of memory distortion, the ultimately weakens his story altogether. According to sources, after the fact was admittedly frustrating. He would claim that he was very ill during the moments he believed and essentially admitted some of the details. Bearing in mind that the in their tracks both times it could've easily been a But what if it wasn't? That's just it. The nature of word of by the circumstances of their situations ultimately leave them up for debate and shrouded in uncertainty. While a nefarious situation is plausible, we can't discount the potential that night was all one Let's put Gary Mathias in Entertain this. The men are at the game. All is going well, and they They hit up Behr's to grab some snacks before hitting the road back home. They're driving down and somewhere on the way, to visit his friend in nearby Forbestown. Jack agrees, and they onto the Oroville-Quincy Highway where they eventually miss the The Oroville-Quincy at that time of night Hesitant to turn around since through the back country, alternate turnoffs that Alternate turnoffs that, as Before they know it, lost in the darkness, Now, while they could've dislodged the car and turned around, we can't that they simply didn't think On top of this, it was to their dilemma a along the road that they got stuck on, potentially instilling a sense of optimism that some external party A party that never came. And so they roughly map out jump out of the car, and start a trek towards their destination. Since the service trailer it's safe to assume that against harsh weather is more As we know, the only ones that made it to the trailer were An undetermined amount of time later, Huett and Mathias would for Weiher or abandon yet another last-ditch effort to get themselves out of isolation. And it's on their way out that both Huett and Mathias both succumb to the elements, drawing their predicament If you ask me, I think trying to make his way towards What he likely didn't that it was roughly 21 miles away. If he were with Weiher, nearly half his body that Mathias mirrored leaving him weaker than when I believe Mathias died somewhere around the Meadow Valley before search teams could But that is just my postulation. The case of The Boys from Yuba County is, by all accounts, one and details that support one theory ultimately weaken the other. It seems that we have the and they're mostly put together. Without the whereabouts of however, that's really all that we can do. Like, how was the car unscathed Why didn't they react to someone that they could've Why was the heat source and food that could've lasted It's cases like this that even though there are Countless loose ends. Countless unknowns. The Boys embarked on that what was supposed to be a night of sports, a night of laughter, and a What transpired, in reality, around them have been because it's all of us