Ah ah ah ah What kind of place is this? Well, a mansion. One of the rivers and lakes was finally solved by us. With her a fool also want to do Li family housewife I crossed into a silly housewife Really dead He's a good niece for falling into the water. Later, you can replace her to become the wife of beginning of winter. The whole Li family belongs to your aunt. See who still dare to say that you are the stepmother of the Li family Ha ha ha It seems that his mother did not bully this fool less. Then let you know how happy I am Happy Ah ah ah Here we go. What's the quarrel? This is not my husband So handsome Honey, you're finally awake Father Gu, I'm so angry Aunt This fool, he spotted my beginning of winter. Hum Don't worry I have plenty of ways to deal with this fool. This is the beginning to go Hey hey hey, are you thirsty? Give me a drink of ice water to burn you to death. Let you say no more words Who is the whole who is not sure Ice water is comfortable to wash your face Real water wash face, ha ha But brother directly, are you all right Mung bean, I seem to bring him water He actually splashed my face I feel sore and comfortable after washing with ice water People shouted to me, I wash my sister's face Wash your face This is clearly boiling water You said it was ice water, what kind of heart do you have? I... My husband is really smart It's all your fault that you almost burned my precious daughter-in-law, beginning of winter. Don't worry I'll teach him a lesson 17 we go. Wait for me Go play. Scissors want to punish me again, what are you doing Gee, give dangerous things to fools to play. Any accident is normal Dig together, dig together Dig together, dig together, dig together Together in Latin America Oops, killing people Killing people. What did you do? Zombie Seven, he's gonna kill us Put him in the loony bin. Throw you away Here you are, you hurry to catch me Woo, the mind of 17 is only six years old How could he possibly harm And I put all these knives away. How did he find I'll have another time, no matter whose relatives you are, get out of my house. 17, you see you run with oil on your face I'll take you to wash your face, hum You piece of shit can't handle a fool, huh? What is this Why two colors? This is the C- coffee double-tube facial cleanser I specially prepared for you. Ha ha ha ha ha ha A lot of bubbles, don't worry You're my grandfather's savior I won't let any harm come to you It turns out that he doesn't like it. I just want to repay it. 17 ah, you fell into the water frightened Tomorrow, I'll hold a party for you You're glad to hear that she likes her aunt very much. How can you give such a nice party to a fool? Let people discover that Jiang 17 has an affair with others. Of course, the more people, the better. Auntie has to be you This is Jiang Shiji's room. Uh-huh. Why is there no movement You let me sleep with a fool, don't love dearly at all Oh baby, I'm robbing you Uh-huh. Since you can have love concubine intentionally Then I will help you, meowed. Have you seen 17 No, I didn't see it. I'm going to report Jiang 17 for fornication and filth. Can you afford the consequences of leaving home and spreading rumors about my wife? Hearing is empty, seeing is believing You can come with me to see Look at Jiangxi Xinhe Daxian Fu who is upset I don't know what heaven and earth are Shh. Isn't this the emperor's stepmother? Why is she here? Wow, what are you doing here Wake me up, yeah Mother-in-law does not play with me She's gonna play with that guy I was kicked out at the time How can a fool's words be taken seriously? I really don't know what they're doing. They seem to be doing this first. And then, um, this, um And then? You can't live like this This is too much. Okay, okay, okay, don't compare Got it. How decent is this? This is the stepmother of the Lu family who is so immoral. You have corrupted the Li family and expelled them from the Li family from today. And you're spreading a rumor, my lady You just wait for a lawsuit, ah My mother-in-law plays with me, my mother-in-law plays with me The feeling of eating your own fruit, is it cool You're not stupid You didn't get a chance to say, ah You do it, go Yellow hair play with me He said to play with me I crossed into the richest man's fool lady This is also too cool Let me serve a fool Hiss, bring the gold You dare to rob me Ha ha ha ha ha Also, if you cast a fool here, you will also see the huge amount of gold stolen. Send him to the Public Security Bureau You give me a break Sir, um Rest assured I won't let anyone bully you How handsome. News from Madame's stepmother and stepsister. I said I wanted my wife, I wanted her to come home. After listening to the territory is not a fuel-efficient lamp I'll go with 17. People's Editor, Li Fei 10 billion business in Switzerland 10 billion, money is not earned. You bastard. Stepmother, stepsister Good man. My own back Mom. When my fool came back, I prepared a big entrance gift for him. After all these years, you haven't played enough soup. This kind of pediatrics also dare to run wild in front of the girl Ahhh, how did he win Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha Your home smells good, see somebody else's home smelly ah Come on. Hold me down, dare you 44267, alas mom I know you love him silly But he's getting more and more presumptuous. It's just not proper 17. Where did you get that basin from You just there ah I am old, not blind. I can see your little trick clearly. I'm here. No one can bully 17, let's go. You wait for you to eat hot pot Why do you eat hot pot again? I think my face is oily. Hum You mess with eggplant, eat dried kelp Don't want to eat out Grandma is too old to protect you for a lifetime. I'll leave you half my fortune To keep you safe for the rest of your life. Uh-huh. Grandma lives another 100 years Good granddaughter, the family property can only be ours Sister, I want to give you a gift You see, this is a ruby Worth tens of millions Uh-huh. But in exchange, you'll have to sign here first. Voluntary abandonment of millions of assets Make some cheap money Well, have you signed it for half a day? All right. Ha ha ha ha ha, fool Your money is all mine Mom, come and see This fool, just kiss If you fold my wings I will destroy your heaven Silly brother I asked you to write your name and what you wrote QQ signature QQ signature is not signed What are you doing? You forced 17 to give up the family property When will my money be up to you? Tomorrow I will take 17 to the property notarization. Let him inherit half of my fortune You dare to move bad heart again I'll let you clean up and leave the house. Ha ha ha teacher Old thing, I told you no tomorrow grandma mom If you hadn't been protecting this fool I'm not going to give you an old woman a hard hand. Ha ha, it's all right now The money's all ours It was you who did this to my grandmother I recorded If you don't say anything, I'll make you pay for it. I think you can walk out this door today. What are you doing? Let me go, people take me away lock me up Let me go I see who dares to touch him, Z Sister, are you all right? If you can rest assured, I 've invited the top medical governor. Grandma, it's gonna be okay Have me in You can do whatever you want What are you going to do Don't mess around I'm your stepmother Oh, you dare to hit my mother You and I will not fall Bi Zong You married this woman, not a fool at all Still lie to me How can you fight with your own hands It's all red. You don't have to do this yourself. Stop fighting, stop fighting Give up the police station and let them recuperate. Let go of me, let go of me 17 So you 've been playing the fool Silly is like this But like you is true This is the beginning of winter office ah How can there be a woman's stockings Lidong, you're finished Uh-huh. Miss calculator surprise not surprise You're divorced, you're screwed Husband This time back to China, you must take away your property from Gree East. Who Everybody oh, ah ah Don't move. It's okay, he's the idiot from your song. Driver I'm back Elder brother, why are you here We came back specially to help Big Brother with the family dinner. I didn't expect my sister-in-law to be so silly and cute. Good. Just the lack of a public relations director Please help with the product launch. Thank you, brother. I'm sure it's no problem. Then let's go You're trying to figure out why you're playing dumb Dare to hurt my husband Then I will let him know my prowess Hey. I like this souvenir. It's mine. But but what ah I'm the director's wife. This is for the president's wife A fool, dare to ride on my head I'm gonna make you a laughing stock Uh-huh. Good. Sister-in-law, this is the best makeup I'll give you the red carpet later. Press this picture. Want me to throw you, huh I messed with the wrong person. Good. I like it. I like it It's beautiful, just like this. Draw it, call me oh Let me help you with your makeup It's my turn to turn you Hum The reporter, Mrs. Director, smelled it, eh Here we come. I'm sure I'll compare the zombie chicken Look at this conscience joke. Hey! Ahhh, ahhh, you just locked it out it's so beautiful It's so beautiful You fuck my happy mm Fool, you dare to punish me Uh-huh. This makeup looks good, I don't deserve to give it to you I fought with you You move and try You can't even control your own wife How do I believe you can control me not to die I'm sorry 17, I promise there will be no next time. The board is about to begin Don't be too proud I'll let you focus on 17 later. Are you ready for the board's speech on kneeling in front of me? You're so beautiful today I'm suffocating Puppy, don't ask what you're looking. Are you so beautiful? Cat you are allergic to cat hair How can there be a cat? Oops. Now Li can't attend the board of directors. It seems that only your husband can speak for the lawyer. Wait for the news, plus the people on our board who bought it. History is ours today. Why do you live you With your husband down Maybe you fool also want to go up to humiliation Hum Chestnut can't come today. This time the board will have my husband It's not your turn to put it away. I'm late. I'm all very much a master. He's a fool, a man who disrupts the order of the board. I will do whatever is necessary to expel him This year the company's strategy is to recycle overseas assets The focus of investment will return to our local cosmetics industry in China. At present, I am most optimistic about the domestic brand wholesale, focus on scientific research of precision skin care brand Committed to solving the skin problems of Chinese people with low-cost and efficient products My king of soldiers, aren't you a fool? I played well It's just that you two brains don't add up to real time. I 've also collected some evidence that you bribed your directors. Oh. Don't worry I 've found you a job No, they are all stars. What job? No drones It's over with Barbie Q. The bus stop is over Why did you take the bus? Your sister wants to keep a low profile. It is not appropriate for you to drive her to school in a 3 million car. Then you give him a few 100000 of dress Can that be the same Today is my sister's graduation party. Of course it's beautiful. Brother, you go first I wish I had my sister-in-law and brother Yibo to accompany me. Pay attention to safety, meow meow is Hey! You don't watch the road It's you poor guys on the bus that's blocking my way. I'm too unlucky I stopped that car, hey How did you come Force always let me protect you and miss He must kneel down to apologize to you today Alas, forget it Don't dispute with such people Graduation ceremony is about to begin I'll go first Sister-in-law, your position is up here Is this seat suitable for those of you who take the bus? It's really a narrow road Then you 'd better tell me, how can I not do it? I don't think you poor people will know Today, the wife of the president of the Qianhao Group They will also attend the graduation ceremony of their children. This position ah I'm reserved for the president's wife. You deserve it too. It turns out that I'm the one he wants to flaunt. How do you know your wife will eat your tricks? That's all you earn, and you're guessing what the rich are thinking. Look at the zits on your sister's face Children from poor families just don't pay much attention to it. Don't talk to him. Come with me. Am I ugly? No, you just don't clean your makeup properly. Stuffy pox long silence, I will also have pox when I am adolescent. But your skin is very good now That's when I learned makeup. The first step in skin care is to clean the face If you don't want to grow acne repeatedly, you must wash off grease acne first. But sister-in-law, how can our school have this Don't you know? This noble school you went But our family industry wow Whoa, whoa, whoa Whose child is this? It's so beautiful. Don't be proud This may be your time for the highest light Unfortunately, it's not worth mentioning to us. As long as I can get in touch with the president's wife at the C card investment ceremony tomorrow. I 'd have 100 less years of fighting. Then I wish you an early relationship with the president's wife Hum Sister-in-law At the investment ceremony tomorrow, I'll ask my brother to kick Mrs. Wang out. No need to stayWatch him watch a good show tomorrow. It is an investment of the Qianhao Group. It's really big to mix him up and fry him. It's you. How dare a cat and a dog like you come here? Also pretended If I don't come to this party, I can't do it. I see, you are the cook here Alas It's not easy for the poor to raise children. On the big weekend, you have to work part-time for two jobs. It's harder for you I want to climb to the top of my life, the president's wife. You are a clown in the eyes of others. You are the clown, you have never seen the bottom of the high-end social circle. I'll let you have a good look at what is the stepping stone of high society. This is my gift to the president's wife Hermes Platinum Bag 50 Lbs And all C coffee products You 've really lost your money. It's just an appetizer Here's the main course 1 million antique tableware Serving dishes like you It is estimated that I will never buy one Come and see, take your dirty water It's the president's wife's favorite thing. With your poor sour taste, how can you use it in the future? Hiss. My plate My gift to the president's wife. Are you crazy? Call the police. Call the police. What's going on? Gu is always a dead ghoul He was caught by the president's wife who disrespected you. Which woman are you, Mr. Wang's wife? My husband has always wanted to work with you. Do you think you can give me a chance I'll give you a chance You were killed, weren't you? He's the one who smashed everything I gave the chief tailor. You said it was a gift for me. Then I can do whatever I want. You are the president's wife, ha ha ha ha It's all you, the black sheep, the Wang Group is finished, ah You see what's in my eyes Your clown 17, eh? You are going to have a birthday, what gift do you want? Flowers, flowers bought will wither I send you a bunch of electronic flowers I 18,888 turned around What more gift do I want 88, you bought this bag is also I back to send you an electronic bag 1.75 million Turn around. Don't worry There is also a gift, not an electronic bag, what is it You usually go shopping reluctant to spend money I bought your favorite mall I haven't been to my own mall yet. I'll push the store manager's WeChat to you. Let him treat you well Don't go shopping. The process is to buy a cup of milk tea first. Then go to the clothing store to flip the tag Not worth a cent If the merchants all know that I am the boss, how boring Good. Then let my sister go with you Of course you can. It's not hot, is it? Boy, our mall is really big. Look, that's my favorite Sika and I'll take it all away. Wow, my clothes are all mine Yo Isn't this old classmate Jiang 17 Didn't you used to be a fool I'm all right now Silly diseases are easy to treat, but poor diseases are not easy to treat. They are all classmates. You are still poor. And I ah I have already opened a clothing store in the best part of this shopping mall and become the owner's wife How good it is Take me to have a look Then go. You 've never been to such a fancy clothing store, have you? What an ugly dress. Uh-huh. This other uglier. Can't afford it, you also picked on, right I tell you, any sling in our family is thousands of years old. This is an upscale mall You poor wretches are visiting the vegetable market. That's him. This kind of service attitude of yours is to lower the grade of the mall. Believe it or not, I'll kick you out in minutes. From then on, a shopping mall will be 17 and dogs are not allowed to enter. Really? Sister-in-law, have you heard that this store has just been changed? He's in trouble here If the boss is not happy, he will not be allowed to withdraw from the store. Oops. You poor bastards know a lot. Too lazy to take a reason you Let's go, stop the thief What are you talking about Our family lost the accessories of this dress I think your sister took it I want to search I didn't. Why did you search? Check monitoring This mall, I have someone above me What I say is what You have someone up there Then there is no one above me It's good to know Because I am the owner of this mall. I was wrong, I was wrong You don't think I 'd say that Where is the store owner? Tianniu does not draft I'm telling you, my uncle is the director of this mall. You call him in right now Hit your shaker hard, right You do not regret Uncle I'm at the mall. Come down quickly. You'll be there in five minutes Jiang 17 You're dead, you're dead Uncle This is the director of my uncle Century Gai Mall. Do you know him? Don't know You don't even know the director, still dare to hit 3. these two poor bastards are stealing from our house. 2. you call security and take them to the police station, security. What did you do? Shh. General Manager, General Manager It's really my honor for a rare guest like you to come to our store. You asked me to come over You said the general manager Did you make a mistake He doesn't even know the director How could he possibly know you How to talk to the boss? Do you still want this shop Boss You're the new owner of this mall I really don't know any director The manager is already the lowest position I can know. This further down I really don't know What do you mean by slandering me for stealing? Oh, please forgive me this time I'm blind I have eyes do not know Taishan Then do you know him Yes, I know. I 've collected waste products. very good From now on, he's your boss. You'll know the boss from now on. Ah, ha ha It's too late. I'll collect the junk.