Are you dying to see all the major do it like a local? Let me reassure you that it can be done. And the majority of monuments in tell you which ones aren't, believe me, become French. We're going to see the la Concorde, the Tuileries, the Louvre, Pont Neuf, Notre Dame, the Pantheon, and the Luxembourg Gardens in between. And we've organized the next great food, coffee, and drinks along the because, honestly, there are parts of this that. I'm Jay Swanson. This is Paris in 24 hours. Why are we still standing here? Let's get started. If you know me, the first thing we're gonna get is coffee. But I know you, and what you're gonna want before Poilane to grab ourselves a tasty, delicious, buttery m Croissant. The bakery itself is run by Apollonia Poilane, the third generation of her family to our feet. While they're famous for their sourdough, local workers and collaborating with Dali, who use their bread to furnish an much history here. It's a bakery particular, so it felt like a fitting start. One to grab some Punitions these little cookies and family at home. They also go great with tea or coffee and will easily make the trip back. For coffee, Ten Bells six. Ten Bells is one of the early entrants to the specialty coffee scene here in Paris. white, or, if you're like me, pour a solid cup of filter, which is what we call drip coffee here in which brings us to our first bonus tip of the day. Bonjour. It may sound silly, but the French are very if not downright required, to say bonjour whether that's a coffee shop, a boutique, The first thing you need to say to anyone you'll open up an entirely different universe here in Paris. Okay, hold up. If you're don't worry. We put together an entire 48 hour itinerary that we will give you for free. You scan the QR code or click the link in the description below. We will send it to you and get you started right with all the details more bonuses, more goodies, and some of our favorite tours of the city. So pop us your email right now and we'll send it to you so you can hit the ground running and have an a local. I have four more bonus tips slotted into the rest of this video, like do we tip in France? And where sure you stick around for all that. But for the decent, so let's go somewhere a little bit nicer to sit with our coffee and croissant. Welcome to the Luxembourg Gardens. Originally built for the residents of the | are open to the public and one of my absolute favorites in the city. This isn't the first time that we're going to hear about a Medici today, but Marie was the mother of Louis XIII. because she refused to resign his regent until she was removed by a coup. Her name is still given to the famous corner of the palace. In any case, these is now home to the upper house of the French legislature, the Senate, which explains the high level of security come here during daylight hours year round, spot toy sailboats zipping across the pond. You can buy food here, but it's overpriced and I'd give it a pass. Obviously. Once we're done caffeinating, it's time to The Pantheon has quite the history. but handed back and forth between the modern French history. Today it serves and brightest, only recently opening its and Josephine Baker. It is a spectacular space housing art, sculptures and a copy of Leon Foucault's earth's rotation and also proves that his name is always so hard to pronounce. You can go down to the crypt to visit the graves of those who are interred here, which is the is to go upstairs. For a small additional fee, you can get access to the Dome itself. This not only view of the city, it also serves as a fun trip behind the scenes of a major monument with some great views of the interior from high up. There are a lot of Parisians that don't even know you can get up here, so be sure to take advantage and Tower, Notre Dame, or even next door neighbor, Saint-Etienne-du-Mont With all those stairs, we have worked up the first of three views of the city we're going to get today. So that's all right. Once you exit the Pantheon, you're going to want to hang a hard right to go around the building and then take a left down the hill for the best croissant or one of the best croissants in Paris. And yes, I did just say subscribe to the idea of the best don't live here, every croissant you have is you've ever had. So, like, let's just enjoy what we have in front of us. These are really good though. Very good. Now this brings us to our second bonus tip Forget what your grandma said, we're go In France, we are in the Eurozone, so but you don't really need cash anywhere anymore. everywhere, including Apple Pay, Google Pay, you can pay in cash. People appreciate it. But the way that I do a sponsor, but Wise is a currency dollars for euros, for example, a whole bunch into your account in dollars. And what's to convert it to euros. They'll do it on the spot every time you spend. And because their rates are super competitive and their fees are fixed, it doesn't cost you anyore go than it would to convert a huge amount of money into euros right away. This is how I spend money every day, personally and professionally and have done for like 7 thought and worry and I just. I just do it without thinking. You can grab a card from them directly or just use it on the app and then voila, you're good to go. Anyways, there's your uncomfortable to set up an account with Wise, we do have an affiliate link below that you can use. I love them but we're go going it's time to go to the islands. We're off to Notre Dame is still out of commission so we can't go in today, but they will be opening her back up in a is said to take place on December 7th and 8th and it's my favorite church in the city and the very heart of Parisian history. I used to go in at least once a week just to soak up the vibe. Even if there's a long line, they tend to go quickly and you can easily make a visit in 15 to 20 minutes if you're crunched for time. I have no idea how long lines are going to be when they first open the church, so prepare for a crowd. I put a fun fact on this long row of kings at the base here in the 48 hour another set of 12 statues on the original Thankfully, they had already been removed for so we still have those, and we also had a chance to see them up close at the architecture museum. When out across the city except for one who looked back at the church as if in admiration of his own handiwork. This was Saint Thomas, patron saint of architects and cast in the style of Violet- le-Duc, the architect who restored Notre dame in the 19th century. In the end, a little too proud. Perhaps you could stop in and see the stained glass at Sainte- can be bananas and it is ticketed, so along the river to Pont Neuf, which translates to the New Bridge. Ironic because it's the oldest bridge in town. Paris, you can go to the Carnavalet Museum in Paris because it's the Museum of Paris and inside you'll find paintings and models of the depicts how the islands used to look completely. Because there used to be And they used to put houses on bridges. It's a lot of really fun stuff in there. All this history has got me starving. a really good Vietnamese restaurant just over barbecue deli spot just around the corner the French food, and day one is all about French food. So let's go to La Robe et Le Palais just around the good French food and some great French top notch. These guys are super friendly. little bit, I've got bonus tip number three for you. And that is, where would I recommend you stay in Paris? Because it's a really hard question to answer. And honestly, would pin on a map. If you were to draw a circle around Notre Dame and get into the fourth, the fifth, or the sixth, have a really good time. It's very walkable, quaint, cute streets. You're gonna have the full Parisian experience. good night life. And it may not be where but this video is for beginners and we will you want to make sure that you're familiar with the city. Walking around, the transportation, you know what you're doing, before you commit to one and get out there a little bit too far too fast. And now we're gonna go do the biggest thing in town. Okay, I know you're gonna want to see the Louvre, but let me ask one quick question. Do you really? This place is enormous. Literally the biggest building in France. No, it's not the Eiffel Tower, which is the tallest. honest, I'm torn on the Louvre. On the one hand, I love it very much and I always enjoy a visit. On the other, it's massive, time consuming and exhausting. When I say it's the biggest building in 7.3 hectares, roughly the surface area of 15 American football fields. Even the official Louvre website counsels visitors to keep it short, which is exactly what we're going to do. I know you probably have to see the Louvre visit, ask yourself why and if it's a must. Do you really care that much about Italian Lisa? Would you rather a little more time to drink wine later? It's up to you. My main recommendations in are the sculpture garden in the Richelieu wing, is generally pleasant, and the foundations of the original fortress in the Sully wing. Most people don't know that a shadow of its medieval glory. In my opinion. The foundations were later rediscovered and preserved and it is an would be that if you're going to do the Louvre right, you'll love it all the more with a guided tour. My friend Amber in particular is a stand up comedian and an art historian and I guarantee you will have a better time with her than any other way. So be sure to check her out in the description below or along with all the other tips and tricks that we stuffed into the 48 hour itinerary. Because believe it or not, it's easier to get this all on paper than it is in a video. And then from here we're gonna head to the Tuileries Gardens. I told you we'd come back to the Medicis and this time It's Catherine, the 16th century construction queen. She built the Tuileries palace, which closed off the Louvre's courtyard that used to be right here. It's where she lived with her husband Henry iv and every French king since has called it home, all the way through Napoleon III. It was of course then burned down by the famous to this day. The Tuileries Gardens, however, remain intact and open to the public to this day. Most Olympic Cauldron, a giant balloon that would My one piece of advice, if you want to spend some extra time here, is to get off the central path as you'll have a bit more space to yourself. But I want to get out of here so we can show you the famous Place de la Concorde at the other the main axis of Paris, running from the Arc de through where I'm standing now in Place de la to the Louvre. Place de la Concorde is main staging areas for the guillotine guess? Pause the video and leave in the time somebody lost their head to Old Choppy? What do you think it was September 10, 1977! Which basically feels like yesteryear. That's insane. You're in luck though, because capital punishment was safe from here. If you look to the south of Place de la Concorde, you'll see the national assembly and now turn to the right and look north, you'll see the Madeleine, which is a very interesting, cool, and yet slightly bizarre Roman temple than a Christian place of not going to go straight to there. We're actually going to go around to the right just a little bit to find ourselves some blood. Now let them run with Caffeine. Noir. a coffee shop that you'll see sprouting all over the city. Kick back here for 20 minutes to enjoy a nice Madeleine in and a cup of tea or coffee. Or if the season is hot, grab a glass of cold brew. If you're at all a coffee snob like me, you'll be grateful to see how much saturation because coffee culture in Paris deserves a whole other video. We could go down the street now to check have time for that. Today we're gonna hop the metro because we're going to skip the Champ Elysees. It's basically a glorified strip mall. Bonus number four Getting around. How do you get around majority of this itinerary to be walkable because Paris is wonderfully walkable as a city. And keeping get your step count up before you get we're going to do something like you get your walking shoes broken in enjoy it to the fullest. That said, the phenomenal and my favorite is going to be we made a full YouTube video about how to find in the description below or wherever it the two things that I'm going to tell you to get right now on your phone are going to be Citymapper. It's an app that we all use here. It's like the local app. We don't really use does tend to be really up to date with know where on the train to be to make closest exit as fast as possible. The other would be the IDF Mobidites app, and in English you'd say IDF Mobilities. app that can give you directions around, but what you really want to use it for is to put tickets on your phone before and your iPhone. So you can just use your phone to get in and out of the Metro, which is a really nice treat. now is hop on Metro Line 1 and skip the Champ Elysees entirely, partially because it's basically just a glorified spend any time on it. We as Parisians avoid it like the plague eas, unless you're looking for a little bit of McDonald's or Five Guys, in which case because it is a long walk and between here and there there is not a lot to see. From Noir, where we just were, is gonna be something like 30, 35 minutes walking. We don't have time for that, nor can our legs handle it. We've made it to the crown jewel of the but it is a glorious structure. To get to the Arc de Triomphe go under the roundabout. Do not walk through traffic like John Wick, and if you do see John Wick, turn around and skip this part. Barring Hitman catastrophe. Buy your tickets for this in advance. You should be buying your tickets in advance for everything. We have links below, but doing so here means you can skip the ticket office line and get straight into the entrance line. you'll head up the 284 stairs to one of my favorite views of the city. You'll spot Montmartre, la back down where you came from towards the final destination: the Eiffel Tower. What that they weren't allowed to complete the Arc a gift shop inside it. There's also a live video feed in the floor by the bathroom, so you can see straight soldier below. Not only are there bathrooms you can use an elevator to get all the way ask security. We do have a much bigger apero. What's an apero? An apero is what we call pre- dinner drinks in France. It's something that we do to make sure that we loosen up a little bit before the main event. But also it's our favorite time of day. It's the great excuse just to sit around with friends, catch up at the end of a long day, relax. Detendre, you know, we're here to let loose excuse to come to a place like this because this is not the kind of place that I would normally recommend, however, to have the best beer or the best wine. It's just to have a nice cold glass of something with your friends and enjoy the environment. And two things here. One, we have the Arc de Triomphe. This is actually a pretty nice view of it from here. That's one bonus. And two, people watching is the number one spectator sport in Paris. terraces like this, all the chairs are set to face out, even if there are multiple rows of tables. It's specifically world and judge as they go by. I didn't mean to pick on her. I just like... she just happened to walk by as.... But that also brings us to the question of tipping. Do you tip in France? The answer is both no and yes. No, traditionally, you don't really tip in would do in somewhere like the States. give like a kidney or a lung. Whatever it's up to now in the US is s pretty insane. What is nice here for genuinely good service is to leave one or two euros behind as a pourboire, which literally means for a drink. You're their next apero. It's a really nice thing to do. That said, you will see on credit card machines that gets added in, which is programmed in and is not culturally... It's okay to tip. And if you want to leave a larger percentage, you want to be generous. No one's going to be offended. Go for it. It's one of those things that's steadily redeeming the world. Generous tipping, not a bad way to go. Let's head to dinner. We're gonna hop back on the restaurants in the city for some classic Milagro was opened by my friend Justin and they've done so well that they've even who are the same people that hand out changes seasonally, which makes it doubly the few restaurants that I've tried that I the Eiffel Tower. Their wine selection is and friendly, and the staff always make it feel dinner party at home, of course. Now I all night, but if you do want to get out, we have one final major stop on our route. We've saved the best for last. The Eiffel Tower. Technically, the sparkles are copyrighted, so I'm not going to use any of that footage here. A fun yet stupid fact about French copyright law is that you can copyright architectural designs, which means that there are hundreds of it's illegal to photograph for profit without licensing the rights. Fair enough. The Eiffel Tower which is why you can see those designs sparkles were created in the 80s and are still out of reach for we humble content creators. That said, it is want to sit on the Champ de Mars, the big grassy lawn in front of it and stare up at it for hours, or you want to go all the way to the top. You can't go wrong. Going up how busy it is, but it provides fantastic views a special experience. You'll be climbing what one that has seen World wars and World's Fairs. It's the unmistakable symbol of Paris and a silhouette I believe that sparks joy in hearts the world over. Locals hardly go up it, but they really should from time to time. Paris. What are you going toa do with QR code right here or click the link in the send you our full 48 hour free itinerary going to load you up on Sacre Coeur, Montmartre, Le Marais, Pigalle. Have you ever even heard of Pigalle? I'm Jay Swanson. Thanks for watching Paris like a local.