(gentle music) - I've always found these glass syringes. But I discovered something that completely blew my mind. There's quite a bit of and the barrel. And it needs to be, and you can actually hear it, like if I put it up against (syringe whirring) But watch what happens Just keeps going and going. Isn't that crazy? All the friction disappears. Here's a much larger one that I bought and it does the same thing. Don't be disheartened by the way, if you try this with a lying around and it sometimes they need a bit of breaking in. So, give it a spin for a Here's another cool thing Boi-oi-oing. Boi-oi-oing. Boi-oi-oing Boi-oi-oing, it's a word. For our completeness, Even works sideways. So what's going on here? Well, to answer that question, let's look at what makes a in the first place. Compare it to a plastic syringe. With a plastic syringe, is manufactured to have a wider diameter than the internal diameter of the barrel. So when you push it in, you're and it creates a really nice And that's possible But glass is hardly elastic at all, in fact, it's a really rigid substance. So, the manufacturing tolerance on these things must be insane. Like, if you make the plunger it won't fit, if you make it won't be airtight. And despite those manufacturing demands, I bought this for about 15 pounds. And look, it's really airtight, but also moves really smoothly. Isn't that amazing? So for a glass syringe to work, the plunger needs to be than the barrel only by a few microns. So I suppose, technically, it's just that the gap that only a minuscule amount Another criteria is that the need to be almost perfectly circular. If you have those conditions, then when you give the barrel a spin, something amazing happens, it turns into a hydrodynamic bearing. When a hydrodynamic bearing is rotating, there's actually no contact and we could prove that if Because we could create a circuit that passes through the syringe and then show when the bowel is rotating, that the circuit breaks, because the surfaces aren't touching. So I started to ask around to find out, does anyone have the machining ability to create something like this in metal with the kind of tolerance that you need? Someone called Patrick &quot;Actually you can buy components from the Injection Molding Industry. He even sent a little that he has acting as a I wish I had an air compressor. I think I'm gonna buy an air compressor. I don't know if you've from Injection Molding on the internet, it's really confusing. But fortunately, I came someone called, Tom Lipton who Tom has this huge workshop showing you how to use It's remarkable. I asked if he'd be interested and he said, &quot;Well, instead how about we make this thing, It's called a Kingsbury He made it and he sent I'll leave a link in the and the description to It's amazing what you can build an object like this. So we've got this rotor plate here. This thing weighs almost two kilograms. And it rests on these three tilting pads, they can tilt on these ball bearings here. I'm gonna go off on a quick tangent. Look happens when I lift the pads stick to the rotor that's because they're wringing together. These surfaces are incredibly flat to a tolerance of around 100 nanometers. And you could do something I've got a couple of gauge blocks here. They're precision-width blocks of metal. And so, the end phases When you press them together, well, they stick. That's called gauge block wringing, and we can see something similar here. No one really knows for wring together in this way, video that goes into a bit more detail. If I try and turn the rotor, there's a decent amount of resistance, because it's nearly two kilograms. But watch what happens when Isn't that amazing? This thing will spin over a minute, because it's floating on a cushion of air. A cushion of air that's about according to Tom's calculations. We can actually prove using this device here. This is what Tom call his and it's just a little LED and some cables have been drawn out so that you can complete the Look, there we go. The light turns on when So we can feed this if the circuit breaks when we spin it. This is an insulating rod. So if we connect the LED and the LED turns on, we know is being completed through the bearing. In other words the rotor when it's at rest. So let's spin up the rotor There you go, the LED turns off. As the rotor slows down, you as the rotor occasionally And those flashes increase until eventually you get a Hand-held bearings like this so that sales people could for use in industry like, in a hydroelectric plant that The Kingsbury Aerodynamic are examples of hydrodynamic bearings as opposed to hydrostatic bearings. A hydrostatic bearing like air into the system. So for example, an Air Hockey Puck, it floats on a cushion of through holes in the air hockey table. A hovercraft is another example. But, a hydrodynamic it doesn't need an injection of fluid. So, how is that possible? Let's look at the glass syringe first, and let's suppose that it's Here's an exaggerated of the syringe, where the and the barrel is exaggerated. You can see that the plunger is resting on the bottom of the inside of the barrel. When the plunger is at rest, there's a lot of friction But when we spin the And that's because air is viscous. Because air is viscous, it sticks to the surface of the plunger and it sticks to itself. That's hard to imagine in the case of air, it's easier to imagine in the which is a really viscous fluid. Like, if you pressed and then moved one of the surfaces, you can imagine the surface and there'll be some resistance to motion. Well, the same is true for air, except that the viscosity of air is much, much lower than honey. But anyway, the point is, it drags air with it. So, as air is pulled down into this gap by the surface of the plunger, And if you can spin the the pressure will get high enough to lift the plunger off from and it's now spinning on a cushion of air. This isn't the intended And in fact, when you're for industrial use, you're you're gonna use an oil or grease. And actually, it's a balancing You don't want the because then you don't And you don't want the because that resists the The Kingsbury bearing the surface of the rotor and the pads. Because the pads are able to tilt, they form a wedge-shaped cavity, which I've shown in an And it means that the air is forced into an Hydroplaning or aquaplaning so does ice skating, when an it melts the ice, so you between the skate and the ice. It's also the working that I've slightly turned the end up of. The original Hyperloop as well, though, it isn't anymore. So there you go, the hydrodynamic bearing crops up in all sorts of strange places. Thank you to Patrick Herd to Tom Lipton for his help on this video. Don't forget to watch and the rest of his channel, the links are in the description. All right, I'm back with a few more they're sponsoring this video. Blinkist does something remarkable. It condenses non-fiction They're also narrated, so you can listen to them on your commute. It's a great way to get a summary of the main ideas within a book. Very often, you want after you've read the summary, so it's a great way of before committing to the whole thing. It's also just a great way of getting loads of information really quickly. So here's some recommendations, Factfulness by Hans Rosling Hans Rosling's that guy who did of World Health, the book is also really interesting. The Magic of Reality, Richard Dawkins. Collapse, by Jared diamond. You know, that's the just a such an interesting And on a different note, Getting If you can master GTD as They also have some really now that you can get a lot The first 100 people blinkist.com/stevemould, will no strings attached, It's an opportunity to find If you do wanna carry on, you The link is also in the description, so check out Blinkist today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and I'll see you next time. (upbeat music)