Today, we are going on a food tour around Addis Ababa. We are going to be trying some such as trying raw meat. I'm surprised I actually like raw meat. The famous Injera paired with creamy shiro. Apparently, that's how you do it in Ethiopia. Drinking delicious Ethiopian coffee. Ethiopian coffee is definitely the best. And sharing a huge raw meat and Oh my gosh, that is absolutely delicious. - How are you? - Do you know what we're going to do now? Raw meat, yeah. This is Adimasu and he is the He's going to be joining us for this next meal. - Are you excited? - Your favorite meal? - Okay, all right, let's go do this. So, every day around five bulls are It can't be very expensive because I guess they just chop up the meat and serve it to you. That's true. Sounds like an easy meal to make. I'm thinking it's like sashimi. That's a lot of meat. Okay. Wow I don't think I've ever seen that That's a lot of fat. I have to say this isn't a very vegetarian Lucky we're not vegetarian. Oh my god, it looks so tender. I've never seen meat so red before, that is crazy. We just found out that this restaurant So, I guess a lot of people come Welcome to the Gejabarna restaurant. This one is a butcher house. Looks like we're first having some coffee These bulls are specially grown on salty Okay. So, the way we're going to do it now, this is this one. - Can you hold it for me? And see this one? These bulls types are the best ones. So, are you going to try? Am I going to try it? - You take it like that. Okay, okay. I'm a little scared. Wow, that meat is really tender, The texture is actually really tender. I wish.... thought it was gonna be more chewy. It's a little bit hard with the first bite. You kinda have to rip it a little bit, it's actually really good. I'm surprised I actually like raw meat. That's a big piece, that's a lot of fat. That's a lot of fat on this one here. That was a lot of spices, by the way. - Okay. It's spicy. It's pretty spicy at first, The texture of the meat, I'm not sure. The fat is hard to chew. The flavors are nice from the spice, I'm gonna try these pieces of meat I'll try it together with the injera and the spice as well. Okay, so you're just gonna make a bit like a... raw meat, roll, and then dip it in the spice. It's quite a big piece of meat that's in here, at least considering it's raw, so let's see how that's going to go. It has that kind of stringy texture, The flavors are certainly really intense from that mix, so that spice mix is beautiful. You have a nice tube in the injera, but as you can see, I'm still chewing. A little bit hard to talk properly. So, it looks like it's my turn now. I'm a little bit scared. Let's try this. Okay, so I hold it like this? I'm so confused right now. All right. There is a traditional way of cutting this where you cut it into your fingers It felt a little wrong to me. I'm going to try the really spicy one. Why not? *Speaking Ethiopian* Okay, let's do this. That's really spicy. Oh my gosh. It is really hot. Oh my gosh. That's definitely mitamita which means hot in Ethiopian. I don't even know what the because all I could taste was the hot beriberi spice. And it is certainly flavorful. I can feel it burning my entire mouth right now. But yeah, okay, that wasn't too bad at all. I didn't find it too chewy. I think I might have to try a without the spice, so I can see what the actual meat tastes like. But yeah, overall, I think it was a good experience. Normally, I have my meat cooked medium, so I've never tried raw meat before. It definitely has a little bit more of a chewy texture. So, I'm really excited now to try the cooked version of the It's sizzling away over here and - Can I try some of this? Okay, check this out everybody. This looks delicious and it's sizzling away. I'm really excited to try this. It smells so delicious. I can see there's onions and there's some chilli in here. So, we're going to have to be careful that Oh my gosh. That is absolutely delicious. Yes, okay, the raw meat was quite nice, but this is definitely my preference. It's so delicious and barbecued, it is amazing. I just asked Adimasu how often he comes to this place. It sounds like he's quite the regular, right? - When were you here last? Yesterday! Hahahaha! And that guy comes every day. - Everyday, he comes here everyday. *Gasp* The power just went out. The electricity just went off but I guess it doesn't really matter It is tradition in Ethiopia to feed each other. It is a symbol of friendship. Drop it in the comments and let us know - How is it? It's better when it's from your hands. The restaurant we are at where It almost looks like a bit of an So clearly this place is really popular. We're going to put the name to So, if you come to Addis, make sure to come here and All right, let's go to the next stop. So, it's really interesting to see here in Ethiopia, there are both Christian and Muslim butchers. So, the Christian butchers, whereas the Muslim butchers that sell halal meat, they have a half moon and a star on the walls. In Ethiopia, approximately 2/3 of the population is Christian and the other 1/3 is Muslim. So, you definitely see more Christian butchers here. We've just arrived at our next stop We have just been served injera and shiro. Shiro is like a curry sauce that is made out of tomatoes, garlic, onion, and it smells absolutely delicious. So, this meal here is a staple in Ethiopia. It is eaten every day by nearly everyone in the country. Okay, so let's try this. Oh, okay, it's actually cold. So, it's served cold. It has a very sour, almost a limey flavor. The injera really pairs well with the shiro. I probably wouldn't eat the injera by itself because it has that kind of unique acquired flavor, but it definitely tastes good with the sauce. I have to say the shiro is definitely the It is absolutely delicious, I love it so much. It is so creamy and it just has the right amount of spice, not too spicy at all. This one actually has a lot of fresh garlic in it I can see it, all the little pieces of garlic. That sauce is so delicious. I can understand why they have this every day. I would not get sick of eating this. The injera is actually made out of They ferment it for about two to three days, and then it is spread on a huge pan and Then they often serve it like this, and then they put all the different or they roll it up. It actually almost looks like a... If you look closely... Come close. It has a sponge texture. It has all these little holes and bubbles And when you mop up the syrup, It's absolutely delicious. I'm absolutely loving the syrup. And paired with the injera, it's absolutely perfect. Definitely my favorite food here in Ethiopia. We've just arrived at a local home where which is a local traditional breakfast dish. They're actually growing a lot of their own ingredients. So, you can see this little herb garden here. So, this plant here, that's hops. And here you have the brewer. They also have a potato plant here. They have spinach and tomatoes over here. So yeah, really nice. They're growing all their fresh produce here That is the cutest kitchen I have ever seen. The smell of the spices, wow. So, there are two hot plates in this little restaurant. One is cooking shiro at the moment, and the other one is cooking a meat firfir. So, apparently this restaurant actually and the businesses in this area here. And they can come and sit and eat here or You can see the menu behind me up here. This is all the food that she can Thank you very much for showing us And I cross fingers you get more customers soon. Oh my gosh, we just met Lemmy's English teacher. What a sweet guy. And he does speak very good English, by the way. I'm loving this local area here in Addis. It is really cool just to see It's just a really cool, chilled vibe in here. And all the locals are really friendly. We're going to try the really I actually like that better. It's really hot, it tastes really fresh. Really nice flavors. Okay, here we go. Apparently, that's how you do it in Ethiopia. Okay. There we go. Very social way of eating. Okay, I think that's enough. Okay, thank you very much. Okay, let's go to our next stop. We've just arrived at the Piassa We're currently walking down a street full of butchers. This plant here is called khat and it is something that the local and it gives you a little bit of energy, let's just say that. But a few sessions of this and you'll be addicted and you won't be able to do anything without it. So yeah, sounds a little scary. So here in Ethiopia, it's not just but they also eat raw goat and raw lamb as well. So yeah, very interesting. There's certainly a lot of beef along here. Let me just said that this is really good quality meat. They have a slaughterhouse just next to here and a lot of local people come here to buy their beef. So, it has a really good turnover. So, it's very fresh. I absolutely love the music here Such a vibe. Everyone seems to be hanging around, there's music, people are a bit more chilled, I think, today because it's Sunday, So, yeah, people are just having a good time I'm getting a shoe clean at the moment and My shoes have got pretty messy because we've been traipsing through So yeah, they need a bit of a clean. So, I think they'll look really nice after this. He's just taken out all my laces. They did need a bit of a clean. I think he's used to getting so many no's from people and I was like, okay. They're going to look like new. He's really getting into it. Make sure that you put a comment because he's done a great job. So, give him some support. Make him the most famous shoe cleaner on YouTube. So, put a comment down there for him. Thank you very much, yeah. He certainly did a great job of my shoes I also have wet socks though. So, I don't know how that's gonna go for the Just stopping for some Ethiopian coffee. We are enjoying a coffee at a newly which means my grandmother's coffee. It's absolutely delicious. We're trying this one with milk today. We've been in Addis for a few days now and we've been mostly drinking black coffees, but this one is with milk and it is absolutely delish. It's so good. I have to say, out of all the coffee that we've Ethiopian coffee is definitely the best. I understand why it is so famous now. It is really, really good. Ella doesn't usually drink coffee, so I'm really curious to see It's really nice, yep, it's good. It's not too strong. I definitely need to have milk with it because I could not probably drink this one black. - But yeah, it's not too bad. It's delicious. I love it, it's so good. We just arrived at the Totot Traditional Restaurant where we are going to have some delicious This is one packed place. Oh my gosh. It is so busy in here. Look at the ceiling. It has the traditional Ethiopian We are currently watching the cultural show Everything is just sort of vibrant and fun. It's certainly a packed house here and apparently, it's like that every single night. So, obviously these cultural shows because it's mainly all locals that's here. Our food has just arrived at the table. We thought we were having the We ended up with the meat platter instead. In the middle of the platter This one is big chunks of raw beef with berbere spice. There was some type of cheese mixed with spinach, some collard greens, meat with cabbage, Lots more cheese. This one was chunks of cooked Smells delicious. There was also injera and Okay, it's time for Kasper to try with some raw meat. Surprisingly, he actually quite liked it. So, it's my turn now to try the raw meat. So, I've put some on the injera. So, I'm gonna give that a go. Tastes like mince, actually. It's quite nice. It reminds me a little bit of a steak tartare. A little bit, but a spicy version. I actually think my mum would like this. For some reason, my mum is not but she likes to eat raw meat. Like she likes raw mince. If she's chopping up, making spaghetti bolognese, she will eat a little bit of raw mince. Time to taste test some of the cheeses. We had no idea what type. Cheese with something in it. We really didn't know what we were eating at this point. The cheese is interesting for me. It's a little bit on the sour side. Not really what I'm used to. I think it's definitely something It's very different to what we normally eat. So, it's definitely pushing us a bit But that's the thing when travel, It's amazing that we've been able to and just loving the spice. A little shout out to the berbere spice. It's amazing. Something I'm really loving about And everybody just eats off the same platter. It is so cool. It's a very social way to eat. Oh my God, look, it's a Morgan Freeman dupe. It literally looks like Morgan Freeman's doppelganger. That's crazy! I'm so lost for words. That was actually so much fun. I love that dance, it's actually so fun to do. I feel like it really matches the beat of the music. So, yeah, it's just, it's really good. Yeah, I'm up. I never know how to dance so it's good But yeah, that really, really fun. We've had such a fantastic time on this That's it for this video. Don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel. So, that you don't miss out on any See you next time on Living the Jo Life. Come on, dance, lovey. I've actually been having a lot I didn't join yet. - I don't really say that, right? Lemi's laughing at us. Show, show, show. He's just like spit out the words, okay? Just get it out, okay? Thank you. What? I about to say thank you for Alright, now I'm actually stealing the rest of your froth. Oh my god! Good luck! That's supposed to be good luck. Yeah, I am, yeah. Just got hit by bird poo on my finger.