For most and happiness to achievement: getting into a good university, landing owning It meant that I never felt like Even if I'd achieved some of the goals I got lost in achievement, believing And this was made worse by my constant I would feel depressed and jealous lives seemed to look on the outside: the success they were experiencing, However, I came to realize that life Otherwise, you fall into the tragic as if you are never going to die You're not here to just exist. You're here to live. You deserve to be happy now. And happiness is a choice. It is challenging to see it so wired to believe that There is immense fulfillment in learning needing no outside We all aspire to be happy But not everyone is ready If you're ready, because I know the insights you will change your life in the same way The topic of happiness and it was something I discussed at length number one executive coach, He shared a lot that really hit home. Never believe that achievement It won't Happiness is not out there. There's nothing you're going to buy And when death is in your face, I'm a Buddhist His father was a king. He was protected from life. He was able to sneak out of his bubble What did he learn first? You get old, second people get sick. And third, you die. Old, sick, die. You can have all the money in the world. Old, sick, die. No money. Old, sick, die. It's going to happen. I can never be happy with more. He goes out in the woods, starves himself. You know what he learnt? Can't be happy with less. What did he finally realize one night? I can never be happy with more. Never be happy with less. There's only one thing I can ever be happy What I have. There's And there's only one place That's it. The only place you will find because that's the only place it exists. Too many of us overthink happiness, have to be in perfect order before We fantasize about the life many of the things we take An ungrateful heart is a magnet A grateful heart, on the other hand, is a magnet for joy and positivity. In fact, until you are grateful for what you currently have, because you will never be happy Gratitude is the pathway to abundance If you have been used to complaining or how others have it better than you, The reality is that you have We take for granted all the good and sadly, it's begin to appreciate things If you ever find yourself I suggest giving this 3 step exercise a go to raise your level of happiness Number 1: Write down the name of someone Number 2: Write down in as much detail as possible How have they supported you? And how has your life improved Number 3: Pick up the phone. Call them saying you have something and then read out If this is impossible for whatever reason, send them a voice note, because our voice Do this I want this video to help you rediscover in all the small things in life and appreciation I promise you that when you look back those small things won't be so small Start to see the extraordinary We live in a magical world If we did, we would live much happier True happiness is embracing The sunrise on a warm summer morning. Your cozy cup of coffee. An amazing book. Or a delicious meal It is being grateful but also for the small satisfactions And instead of looking for things focus on the things you can be grateful and more at peace with yourself you are, Right now, for example, giving me the opportunity and to you for taking the time Happiness is a state of mind. It doesn't matter it's how you feel about it on the inside. This is why we have happy happy poor people and unhappy poor people. It demonstrates the primary cause of unhappiness But your thoughts about it. Your perception of the world and of what So if you want a happier reality, You don't want to get too attached Falling in love with the results to achieving You may have many goals, but about what you have accomplished thus far is far more important the things you own The unhappiest people I know too much about what others think. The reality is that no one cares about you They are too busy worrying about what What you think about yourself will always matter Happiness comes from making progress of your potential and becoming better It is a byproduct of your becoming, if you stop transforming and evolving, to attaining a vision or goal. It must come from the pursuit, combined with a sense of gratitude for what You may not enjoy the hard times in life, but they can make you stronger They can help you develop character When it comes to personal growth. I find that most people have grown the Never enjoyable but when looking back they can feel like So if you want to become successful Too many think that the route to happiness Truth is that success follows happiness. And in this process of learning you will have to let go of things Wasting energy will only lead you down To avoid this, check out this video, which shares 8 life-changing lessons on how to let go and stop worrying so you can be happier