Hello Health Champions! Today, I want to talk if you don't think that concerns you, you video because the vast majority of people it. Here's why you need to understand this become type 2 diabetic in the next 10 years. once it has started. Type 2 diabetes is a and a causative factor, in cardiovascular Just how common is this problem? we have 35 million people with type 2 diabetes, 540 million people--over half a billion then the question is, how many are going to become will turn into diabetics in the next 10 years. We don't have really good numbers for the rest problem. Most countries are starting to recognize stages. But if we use the same ratio here, there in the world who have pre-diabetes in addition As shocking as those numbers are, that's not at the whole world's population--8 billion optimal and a rather small percentage that 540 million. Then we said there is another 1.6 we're talking about 2 billion people. But What about the people who are what we might are not really healthy, not really optimal, who and are moving in the wrong direction. That people. So we could make a case for 6 billion Not all of them are going to become diabetic, but optimal and are at risk for becoming diabetic On one hand, we have the human cost and suffering; Diabetes care in the United States costs they estimate it at about $1 trillion for what we just talked about, total sick care in the associated with and a causative factor in most disease, stroke, dementia, and cancer, then the healthcare costs are indirectly related to this States, I don't even want to think about what the we know there is suffering, but is this going We need to really understand what pre-diabetes and resistance. What that means is that whenever and your body releases insulin to bring that blood bloodstream into the cells. When that system is capacity to tolerate and process carbohydrates, and break the machine, we become carbohydrate diabetes are. We measure this along a continuum. it is not something that turns on or off. It's a It is typically measured in hemoglobin A1C, which If you're very insulin sensitive, if your body handling them quickly and efficiently, then and your A1C will be 5.3 or less. But if if you start moving along this spectrum now we are starting to move along this continuum some of whom will become diabetics. it is called pre-diabetes, and at Here is the problem: when we only we don't see a whole lot of change. From 5.5 to yet these numbers, these bars, look almost now we have a significant problem, yet we can at 6.5, there is barely a noticeable change. This soon enough because we are only measuring you find that it's resistance to the hormone is the only thing they're concerned with: the is aimed at lowering blood sugar, not looking at is blood sugar; the other component is how much If we measure insulin, we see that a healthy level of about three--a fasting insulin of has changed even just a few percent, we might the time we get to pre-diabetes, it might have it could be eight times higher--800% higher--even This is the problem. Glucose is a controlled to keep it in a very narrow spectrum. When results and changes when the body really fails it here. If we measure this, we can't see changes we see how hard the body is working. With insulin, It's not going to be a perfectly linear graph for tend to see. Here's the other problem: eventually, the pancreas is working so hard that at some it plateaus. What happens now is the body is yet our insulin resistance is progressing. This completely out of control, where the blood glucose the 10, 12, 14 range, and that's because we but not making changes. We've reached the point Unfortunately, up to this point, up to the 6.5 like Metformin, which just helps the body fan of Metformin, but I think it is relatively once we reach this point and conclude that the we need to inject more insulin to control this sugar down at the expense of becoming even more more insulin than we should have, yet we keep we're controlling blood sugar to some degree worse. What can also happen at this point is that inflammation and chaos in the body, can maintain its function; it starts to fail, and the cases, where this progresses, it's called Diabetes the process of becoming a type 1 diabetic. At that The next question is, what causes it? There to go through a list of 10 different things The most obvious one is excess carbohydrate sugar and fructose are by far the worst because through the liver. The potential to overwhelm the high glycemic foods--things that raise blood sugar which tend to be high in white flour and sugar. rice. These could be okay, depending on your but starchy food is really only a problem if resistance. If you are metabolically healthy, glycemic foods, you can probably eat quite problem. What's happening now in China and India is based on rice, beans, and lentils. But now, done well with are becoming a problem because Number two is fatty liver, which causes interferes with regulation--it interferes sugar. The liver is kind of like the metabolic on in the body. Excess sugar is the primary cause but these days, the vast majority of fatty liver ahead of alcohol, even though alcohol is a little as much of it. Alcohol has certain restrictions; sugar has no such limitations, and we give it to excess food can cause a fatty liver. It's like going to end up in the liver. However, it is a lot of sugar and processed foods because those Number three is chronic stress. When we have Cortisol's primary purpose is to raise insulin goes up, and therefore, insulin inflammation--chronic low-grade inflammation because cortisol shuts down the sleep hormone cravings. The purpose of cortisol is to put you fuel--blood glucose. You can get some of that making more glucose, but the fastest way when you're stressed, it is much more difficult Number four is inflammation. This interferes with oils contribute to inflammation because they are oils, I'm talking about all the things sold canola oil, corn oil, safflower oil, etc. Even by the time we turn them into oil, we expose chemicals, causing a lot of oxidation and damage. not including olive oil, coconut oil, or avocado less processing, so they're much closer to their include processed food, chronic stress, lack of flora), and environmental toxins. This whole list multiple lists, how there's a huge overlap, and Number five is microbiome signaling. This is how important the microbiome is and how much hunger, cravings, and mood depend on the balance mice and to some degree humans have shown this. a skinny mouse to a fat mouse, and the fat mouse else--feeding them the exact same thing. It changes loss. It can work the other way too. With humans, called Clostridium difficile (C. diff). One out problem until you develop an imbalance in your bacteria to keep the bad ones down, pathogens like good bacteria, these opportunistic organisms and life-threatening, killing a large percentage Here's the thing: the number one cause of on a course of antibiotics, which killed off ones to grow. The second most common reason likely to be exposed to this bacterial strain. the first course of action to treat this we run out of effective treatments and develop C. diff. This is where the fecal transplant and taking a fecal transplant from a healthy person person with a C. diff infection heals 80 to 90% is turning out to be a powerful resource as an One interesting thing with humans is that some gaining or losing weight after the transplant. metabolic changes because they received the metabolism. I know what you're thinking: this but that's not the way to go. This will not create entire environment. The fecal transplant of an antibiotic, but for lasting good health, entire environment and feed your gut. Some causes environmental toxins, processed foods and artificial sweeteners (which Number six is a sedentary lifestyle, which the opposite of a sedentary it reduces obesity and insulin resistance reduces inflammation and chronic stress, good bacteria and managing bad ones), Number seven is genetics. You can have a but we must remember that it is just a to get it. Your genetics can't be changed, your genes. You have a certain genetic makeup, and this is all about lifestyle--everything of my videos. They're all about your Number eight is aging. We tend to get more insulin you can do about this. However, epigenetics come do anything about your chronological age, but Number nine is poor quality or insufficient a night of poor sleep, you wake up with higher stressed already. This increases inflammation, sleep poorly, you have a higher tendency for Number ten is medications. Corticosteroids, which powerful in causing insulin resistance and weight beta-blockers (often given for blood pressure, thiazide diuretics (often given for high blood resistance), statins, and hormonal contraceptives. If you're already insulin resistant the treatment becomes insulin, even Here's what you can do about this: measure and get some blood work to know where you are. disease markers like an NMR (a detailed and number of LDL particles), lipoprotein (a to lay down plaque), CRP (C-reactive and homocysteine (an intermediate metabolite; you can't convert homocysteine, which If you've tried a lot of things and your body you've done whole food, intermittent fasting, and into root causes. This is where analyzing we now perform DNA sequencing of your complete relate, the balance, which ones are pathogenic, Another test to consider is measuring your within your means, I strongly recommend it specificity and create a detailed plan I'll put some links down below where you can not within your means, there are still may not be as specific. Here's what you relaxation and stress management techniques and eat real food. Give up processed and packaged the number one cause of insulin resistance Eat no more than one to three meals per day. Many and three snacks, but that's not how the body the food you eat; you do not need to top it off insulin resistant, one meal a day can increase maintaining or reversing a slight imbalance, moderate carbohydrates. If you start eating real you've probably already cut your carbohydrate putting you in the low to moderate range. If low-carb or even ketogenic, meaning all your carbs Eat a moderate amount of quality protein, made to eat animal protein, and as long as it's pastured chicken), it shouldn't be an issue. natural fats. Do not be afraid of fats, but with the fat in grass-fed meat, wild-caught or mildly processed avocado oil. All of Constantly work on getting a wide variety nutrients and properties. The more variety, foods you eat for your human cells (to make we learn you also need to feed your bacteria. vegetables. There are thousands of options, but a lot of vegetables. Expand your horizons, try If you enjoyed this video, you're going to love understanding how the body really works, and turn on all the notifications so