- All aboard for the Emerald City. (majestic music) It's gonna move you right to me. - You both got your start on of maybe the biggest Broadway I can remember you're everywhere. You're on every street I mean, like, it's a lot. How is it for you guys to be - We're following you guys home (Cynthia laughing) and you look under your &quot;Hi. have you seen it yet?&quot; - All of that stuff. Yeah. - But it's been insane and wonderful and we're really, really lucky huge, legendary thing made by architects such And we are just sort to carry on this legacy. - You both know what it's like and to sort of come from that world. And you think about &quot;Wicked&quot; and how many actresses have and say these lines and sing these songs. What do you want them to and what this means to you? - [Ariana] Well, I think in our hearts every step of the way. - [Cynthia] Very much so. - You know, we are a You know, Glinda and Elphaba, with these beautiful have loved them the way that we love them. And we're lucky to be - And then our intention was and, you know, keep the and us as well. - [Ariana] And they've been - [Cynthia] They've been wonderful. - [Ariana] They've been - How does it feel to be here? I mean, this movie is about that you know very well, you How does it feel to now - A really good full circle moment. I can speak for Idina. I just hoped that they and then I hope that I would And I'm alive to see it and I'm so happy. I'm very emotional about Because those girls are, you know, they are singing. We knew they'd be great That's what I always care And that's why I'm so happy, Jon did such a beautiful job in giving homage, a - [Paul] You've been working on this for a very long time. You know what these What's it like to think that - It's so fun. Like, I have Like, I can't really say that but between you and everyone like, I've been waiting for I'm like, &quot;Why are they not making it?&quot; I knew exactly what to And I knew what it needed So the fact that we got to do it, and I didn't know if (laughs) who love musicals and love this And maybe they won't on everything, but it's been really fun I mean, to have them for &quot;Defying Gravity&quot; at the end. Cynthia and Ariana are a revelation. You think you know them. I mean all this stuff, it was like, &quot;Oh, they wait 'cause I've seen it in the room and now that's been captured forever. I'm just so blessed and - I don't know about it's very pure to the original on stage, or you didn't stick in new You sort of just kept it with what people know and love about it sort of the original in a beautiful way. - Yeah, thank you. I mean, we I think people know by now two new songs in the second the story that we were You know, in the first I mean, some songs are expanded a bit and reexamined, obviously, But yeah, we weren't &quot;Oh, let's stick something in and maybe we'll get a Oscar nomination.&quot; And it wasn't how anybody was thinking. - Is it nuts to think that moving forward people will be like, in 'Wicked' on stage.&quot; And it's like, there is no Pfannee. - There is no Pfannee. And listen, like, the range is either me, it's from Sutton Foster to me. Sutton Foster read for her for 'Wicked,' and then it's me. I feel like there's Anyone can play Pfannee. - [Paul] Isn't that crazy that you're Boq? I mean, for so many people now - That is really nuts. And it's really meaningful to me knowing how important my first Boq was. You know, Chris Fitzgerald is somebody that I've looked up to forever, to walk in his footsteps, So he meant so much to me and who would even get a little is really moving and kind of overwhelming. - When you're dealing with the world of Oz obviously it can be anything. I mean, like, dude, when you're developing a language for that, obviously a very specific language for Broadway. What is it like, where do you start? - Music first and foremost, which is all baked into the music from the original creation of it all. And then I really started of the different, from you know, kind of what's baked Well, it's Oz so the And that was probably the hardest part. To settle in on a movement. 'Cause you're like, &quot;I could do anything.&quot; I don't want it to feel familiar, but dance is such a human gonna be a level of it that is human. - You've been working on &quot;Wicked&quot; in your day-to-day life - Yes. Indeed. So, yeah, I supervise all the companies of the show around the world. So we've been, I guess it's been 24 years since the first reading And here we are again, 24 in this massive new version, you know? - You know, you've watched so many actors inhabit these roles and say these lines and sing these songs and keep And now we have two beautiful Talk about that legacy a little bit. I mean, because it's such a this show, when you just think - Yeah, and when you think about it, really when &quot;Wicked&quot; came, what year YouTube started, you know what I mean? We opened the show on Broadway you know, experience all and all the different Glindas and who sings this and who sings that and what choices people are And now these two brilliant women bringing this extraordinary I will say that it pays such but really passes it on and that just is so unique (light music)