It's been voted best in That means getting a reservation if you catch my drift. Say hello to Tokyo. It's a city of extremes. With 37 million people, it's the If you think New York never sleeps, you should try this place. When it comes to food, you There are more options here than And more michelin star restaurants For me, it's a tough decision. There are so many great choices here But today, I will not be I'm using the Japenese restaurant The ratings come from Japanese And since we've come so far, it only In the top spot is a place called Or just Sugita for short. This is Takaaki Sugita. He's the owner and Itamae, or head sushi chef. The inspiration came in high school when he got hooked on a TV drama about a guy who becomes an It pushed him to take a and there he spent the next 12 years! Working on his knife skills and learning It's the traditional Tokyo style sushi It features small servings of fresh fish So after apprenticing for 12 His boss threw him the keys It was Sugita's to run. And he did just that for the next 10 years. After a decade of running At the age of 40, he took over the restaurant The name would come from his surname Sugita. To not confuse it with other Sugita restaurants, he added the name of the neighborhood Nihonbashi Kakigaracho. It was an instant hit. In 2017 he got the first Michelin star, In 2022, the second one. But in the latest Michelin guide for Japan, The fine dining community is buzzing And it seems the reason is because Reservations are taken on a monthly basis and open up the first Monday of each month. And they do it the old-fashioned way by phone. Most of the seats are taken by regulars, and if you know one of them, this is This is how I got here. Kentaro "Henry" Nakahara. Henry is a chef and restaurant owner with a grilled meat restaurant and He eats at Sugita every month. If you don't know a regular, then a well-tipped And the best way to catch the newest Alexander If you haven't done that yet, go for it. It will help us a lot. Reservations at Sugita are so it's created it's own black market. People have paid up to 2000 euros just But don't get any sneaky ideas. You need to bring your ID to prove you're you. And if they catch you scalping your reservation, you will never get another one. All of this funny business with reservations was And they simply dropped the Which is not uncommon here in Japan. Two other famous sushi places had a similar fate when they kept reservations Sushi Saito is one. The other is Sukiyabashi Jiro. This is where Obama famously went. You might remember it from the 2011 Let's forget about Michelin and other All you really need to know is and have been ranked number one If you manage to get yourself a reservation, They are listed on the website, First one is no surprise. Dress up a bit. No shorts, flip-flops, jerseys, and for god's sake, take your hat off. And save your sprays. No strong fragrances are allowed. You gotta go with the flow. If you have a long list of your reservation might be refused. Because more than 15 minutes late means no sushi for you. Your reservation will be cancelled. Finally put your phone away. We had to ask permission very very nicely. From the outside, you would In fact, you would likely walk right by it. Sugita is well hidden on a quiet side street. There are no G-Wagons or Aston Martins Only the chef's humble Honda Entering through the curtains, it opens up into a cozy but welcoming space. It has a minimalist design which is no An elegant counter made of And in front, space for 9 lucky people, each with a front row seat. If you want a more private experience, That's a total of 13 seats. Once inside, we steady ourselves 5 to 8 bite size appetizers and 11 or All this for 340 euros. Before the show, we see the staff working hard to make sure Here we see a sous chef grating Wasabi root is insanely It is near impossible to grow. It needs shade, rich soil and steady temperatures between 9 and 16 degrees. It's grows naturally in river valleys in That means most of the The green stuff in those little packs is horseradish, mustard, food coloring Fun fact about grating wasabi root. First of all, the top of the And grating should be done because inward means balance. The meal begins with some snacks. This is like the opening act and we really And THAT is a knife. Here Sugita-san is preparing our first dish. Braised abalone. It's a type of sea snail. It's also known as sea ears. And that makes sense. It's buttery and salty and has the chewiness It has nice earthy umami flavors. As you can see, everything is Every slice, every motion, And you can tell Sugita-san has done Up next is surf clam. This is found in northern Japan Even the clams live a long healthy life here! You've probably seen this before. The Japanese traditional way They use lacquer to put it back together And decorate the break with They do this to highlight the It's called kintsugi. It's not a quick fix. The process can take up to three months. It's part of the Japanese philosophy It reminds us that we will But not to give up. These events become scars in our lives. And we shouldn't try to hide them. The chef's is preparing his signature maki roll. Each piece was a party of soft rice, the delicate crunch of Together with the fresh wasabi and salty soy I understand why it's a signature dish. It was incomparable. Next we have sea urchin and salmon roe We also try monkfish liver with hinotori sake Sugita has 30 different kinds of Without question only the best Can you mix champagne and sake? Not in the same glass of course. I found the sake made my palette more sensitive. So when I went back to champagne, Such a bonus! Coming shortly after is It's so delicious that Henry is moved to tears. I reach out with a bit of support. Our final appetiser is This looks like soup but It's umami-rich and the texture is luxurious. Appetisers done. Now it's time for nigiri. balls of rice topped with raw fish. Our first one is Iwashi, or Japanese sardine. Sugita-san is so elegant. He has rhythm like he is dancing and every move he makes As you can see, we are eating with our hands. When it hits my plate I reach confidently... And I fumble it. Shit. I hope Sugita-san didn't see! Although the presentation was ruined, the Warm tangy rice and the most tender, delicious This is a fascinating world, but Like what exactly this is. Or this. And I can't really describe So I silently respect the depth of this cuisine to which I can no longer see. What I do know is that each of The delicate flavors, the elegant textures, the careful presentation will be It's as close to tradition The fact that this sushi has been made exactly Every move, every cut has been Here I can connect with it through the food. On a personal level, this is important. I was also lucky to share Henry not only translated but Making it a history lesson I loved unlocking a new side of champagne It was great fun to experiment In this traditional, quiet place, At times I felt like a fish out of water, Maybe because I knew I was in such good hands. The result was a wonderful experience. And memories I will treasure for years.