[bear growls] Oh, s---. [screaming] It scrambled down the tree, and that type of speed is real. They can run up to 25 miles an hour. Hey, y'all. I'm Dr. Rae Wynn-Grant. I'm a wildlife ecologist, and I've been studying bears for 13 years. Today we're going to be in movies and on TV and judging how real they are. [bear roars] So, already in this clip, I see the very cinematic trope of a giant brown bear standing up on its hind legs Honestly, in real life, They really don't do a lot of growling. They don't do a lot of roaring. But if there's a territory dispute, two big male alpha bears might actually stand up on their hind legs and roar at each other and fight. But if there's a big that bear isn't usually going to go through all that trouble. You saw that big swipe of the ground. That's something that brown In fact, I have experienced a bear do a bluff charge on me, and it is frightening and terrifying. But really, they're just so that you back up and walk away and they don't actually This is great for TV, but it's This bear, even though it looks like it could be 1,000 pounds, it could scale that wall no problem. Those claws could dig into the wood, and it could climb up all the way and then terrorize all those I'd give it a seven out of 10. I really wish the bear Let me make it clear. That is what you don't do. Even if it looks like you you never run. It's because humans cannot outrun bears. When humans run, it signals to the Like, that's what a little deer would do or a little rabbit would do. But when we stand still, that's so different that they get the message. No way! Bears, as big and burly as they are, can also get into teeny, I mean, I've seen bears squeeze themselves into So, again, if it wanted This is interesting. So, we see that they made a ring of fire, and that's their tactic First, no one should ever do It will start a forest fire. But, two, there really and that's that most wild It's just something that they They can't make fire themselves. So as much as I don't want I believe it would be How are we going to lure him? Blood! Did you see him? &quot;Blood!&quot; That's not going to work. OK? So, bears are driven by hunger. Blood does not necessarily signal this is something to eat, right? A bear wants to smell something delicious. It wants to smell honey. It wants to smell rotting meat. I think they're getting like, sharks are drawn to blood. It's not the same with bears. So, this is actually something If we want to lure a bear to something, maybe we set up a little trail cam and we want to get information we'll put out what we call a scent rag. And so it looks just like that, like a little piece of cloth, and we'll put some kind of scent on it. We could literally use, They'll come right to that Is it realistic that that bear might come looking for you again because you are still in its territory and haven't left? Yes. However, is it realistic that a bear is going when there's two or more people? No. So, bear attacks happen usually when there's just one If you have two or which is another way when they recreate in nature. It did look real, but the probability of something like this actually taking place, like, I'm going to give this a five out of 10. The first shot we see of the Those are real claws. They did a great job modeling that. It looks like a real animal. And then the other thing we see Meh. Bears' sense of smell is so precise and can go across such a long distance that they're not going to be when they're literally 2 feet from them. Bears can't climb trees. Of course they can! This little kid just said, &quot;We're safe, 'cause bears Already I'm like, &quot;Oh, no!&quot; Like, they're doomed. Bears are the best tree climbers. Henry, move! Go higher! He's kicking downward with his leg. If you ever find yourself above a bear on a tree, you should do that. But climbing higher? No, no, no, no, no. There's a phrase out there, when it comes to bear attacks, &quot;If it's black, fight back; if it's brown, lay down.&quot; And it's important to note that this is for bear attacks. This is not for bear encounters. Even if a bear is near you, even if it's approaching you rapidly, that's still not an attack until it's actually That is a really important difference, because if a bear is not attacking you, that's when you back away slowly, you make yourself look big. If it is attacking you, But the whole time, also Oh, s---. Ah! It scrambled down the tree, and that type of speed is real. So, the bear first slowly Of course it can do that. But the way it practically and scaled it in a second, that's really, when a I mean, they can run Also, it should be said It is totally hypothetical if it was on tons and tons of cocaine. But this movie is loosely But there was a bear in the '80s, I believe it was 1985, that was found dead after ingesting a big amount of cocaine that was dropped from an airplane. But in general, overdoses can kill animals just like they can kill people, and that's what happened The only thing that I saw in this clip that wasn't so accurate not that interested in Especially black bears. Black bears are the least predatory of all the bear species. They mostly have a vegetarian diet. They love their fruit, Another thing people should know is that bears do not eat people. Sometimes it's happened, like, really, really rarely, but they do not prey on humans. If a bear is attacking someone, it's really because they I would give it, like, a six out of 10. I can't imagine a bear to go attack another person for drugs. [bear groans] [bear growling] Oh, oh, oh! That's real. Right behind him comes The female bear raises her cubs, and she dedicates her This guy was technically But because he was between she sees that as a threat, So, we often tell people who are recreating in the wilderness, do not physically come between Even if you notice a bear cub on its own and you do not see the mama, get away from there immediately. You are in danger. OK? They lose their mind, [Hugh screaming] So, it's actually really, really accurate the way that they showed the attack. The way that the bear like, she does a little she uses those parts of her the most because they're the most effective. And, again, she's not trying If she wanted to eat him, she would use her claws to tear him apart. But instead, she just wants to have those fatal bites to keep her cubs safe. But the biggest myth that is that they're always on the attack. In some of the national take Yellowstone National Park, your chances of a bear attack are something like one in 2 million. So, truly, bears are And with that said, don't bother them, don't frustrate them, because if you do, you [Hugh grunting] Like, at this exact spot, I wish the character knew to play dead. Because this is a brown bear, sometimes called grizzly bears, and with that species it's 'Cause if he just played dead right there, it's more likely that she would, like, nudge him a little bit and then walk away. But he's, like, still making a little bit of noise, and it's telling her, He could still be a threat.&quot; This is giving me anxiety. He shot her and then 'cause she's like, &quot;See, I was right. It just tried to hurt me. I'm just going to kill it So I can understand having a weapon and wanting to kill it and But, again, you're safer playing dead until he can no longer hear Honestly, I'd give this It's, believe it or not, a CGI bear, but they really got it right. How did you get up there? I don't know. Of course pandas don't but they are flexible. All the little YouTube videos you see of pandas in captivity rolling around and being cute, they really do have very flexible bodies although they're chubby and fat. I now see that the way is with this. Oh, great. Realistic that they would but would they eat I don't think so. However, a lot of people although they're vegetarians and some might think they're herbivores, they're actually still carnivores. Pandas have the gut meaning they have the bacterial to break down meat and So that means that it's possible that ancient pandas were carnivores and ate meat all the time, and probably if they So, you know, this panda which is atypical for wild pandas, but believe it or not, pandas can fight. Pandas have claws and they have fangs, long fangs that could rip So they have the physical structure to be very, very aggressive I love this movie, but I have to give it a one out of 10. [bears roaring] I'm always happy to see polar bears. They're awesome. They are not only the largest of all eight bear species, they are also the largest and they are very aggressive. So to have a very violent interaction between two alpha male They're not going to have, like, an audience of other polar bears. Maybe if there's a big common food source, they would congregate together. Other than that, they're not The other thing that in a polar bear-polar bear fight is the running and slamming together. Usually when they're fighting they approach each other slowly, they'll do all the bluff and then they'll get up on their hind legs and start fighting. But they won't kind of and then run at each other together again. They don't eat people, but they're more likely to Polar bears are what we call So that means they just want and because of that it They often say, like, &quot;If it's white, goodnight.&quot; It means that if you are in it's not looking good. As well done as the art was, I would give it, like, a two out of 10. Bear fight! I think it goes without saying that this is extremely exaggerated. The bear was, like, slapping back, and that was actually kind of realistic. In fact, it doesn't take to slap you across the face. But punching a bear in the face is just a really great and to get them to really hurt you. Hey, Ron, I'm riding a furry tractor! You can't ride a bear. It's kind of worth explaining bears have been used in circuses and entertainment capacity. Don't train wild animals. There's a lot of ethics around this. Probably bear riding has been a thing. But these days, you're not really going I would give it, again, like, a three out of 10. [bear growling] Oh! Ah! That's something that every If they're camping in a bears will smell something and will come looking for it. So, it looks like she just Really glad to see that. Bear spray is something that I have on me at all times whenever It can save your life. Ooh! This is where this woman went wrong. Bear spray is completely, 100% ineffective when you're in close It's just going to aggravate You use it when there's Bear spray is pepper spray, but it's not the same kind of pepper spray that we use to keep ourselves safe. It is extremely powerful, and it shoots at a long distance. So if you sprayed bear spray in your tent, you would not be able to breathe. You wouldn't be able to see. You would be incapacitated. You have to do it in the open, and then you have to get So what they should have done is, at the beginning of the spray the bear spray, zip it back up, and wait a few minutes That one was intense. It would have to have so that it learns a behavior like a deliberate predator of humans. Also, the bear-spray situation way before the attack actually happened. I wish they had just deployed I wanted to give it, 'cause I was like, like, that all makes sense. But then in terms of how aggressive and how murderous that bear was, I want to give it, like, a four out of 10. Oh, my God, what is that? Kind of has the humps We can see it has this almost like a horse head, Black bear will either but then a proper hump for head, or a brown bear or a grizzly bear has more of the flattened It's all over the place. One of the things that looks like there's places and just has raw skin. And believe it or not, this because there are times when bears can be very the same mange that dogs can get. So it's possible that a mangy bear influenced this animal here. OK, I'm going to give it a one out of 10. Like, that wasn't even a real animal. My favorite bear show is a show that I've actually been in, and I don't think it's fair to really toot my own horn right here, so I will say that my was &quot;Yogi Bear.&quot; And it was mostly about who lived in a national park and would steal people's picnic baskets. But it's kind of realistic, right? Like, bears are in a lot of and they love our food. That's something that humans Thanks for watching. If you liked this video, why