(light music) - [Narrator] Japan's train system ranked by Statista is the most The U.S. though is far behind. It's tied for 11th best. Roughly 15 million people ride the subway each day in Japan's capital city, around 11 million more daily We compared the Tokyo and New York subways to find out how Japan's rail system got so far ahead of the United States. Take a look at this map of Now, compare that to Tokyo's where the public transit In New York, public transit likely only have these Japan's map has more points of connection. - What's really distinctive about Tokyo and actually Japanese is they all interconnect. - [Narrator] Commuter with city subway tracks, which reduces congestion - If you just ride the train all the way out to your final destination, you don't have to be paying attention to your transfer station. You just fall asleep and you know when you're gonna wake - [Narrator] These easy commutes are key for the 2.4 million people traveling into Tokyo daily On top of that, Tokyo Wides to pay for most public not just in the city, but And in New York- - You have to often have a different card to get on any of the ridership system. It's not like an integrated - [Narrator] So you have to to ride the public rail systems. In some cases, these separate of different jurisdictions The subway, for example, and leased to the Metropolitan better known as the MTA, by the New York State government. And New Jersey Transit, which is run by the New Jersey While New York doesn't public transit connections, First is payment. - We now have the ability to pay with a credit card when so you don't have to have which will be made obsolete eventually. I think the goal is to in one rail system, and that - [Narrator] Then there's Other than in 2020 and 2021, during the COVID-19 pandemic, Tokyo Metro, the largest subway company in Compare that to the MTA, which historically operates at a loss. Its outstanding debt is forecast A key reason for this difference, central government funding. Japan heavily invests in The national government owns and the Metropolitan Government - After the second world war, there was a continuous investment in the public transit system, which is primarily the and the private commuter rail There's never been a let in adding lines and - [Narrator] The MTA, on the other hand, is not owned by other private companies. Its funding comes from multiple the city and state governments, The MTA also makes money by selling bonds. - It's one of the top issuers of municipal bonds in the entire U.S. - [Narrator] One of the for both the New York and Tokyo Subways comes directly from riders. In Japan's capital, companies have flexibility to charge more. - It's all fair by distance, so you get your fair at the end. - [Narrator] So depending the cost for riders can be which converts to about $1.27 to $3.22. The main New York subway fares are flat, though the LIRR and Metro - Right now, about 40% comes from the fare box, from what the riders pay to ride. That number has gone down a lot, which is why we're - [Narrator] Because have worked from home since 2020, there have been less riders This has worsened the To help fill the funding gap prices will increase slightly from $2.75 to around $2.86 later this year. In Japan, public for being staunchly on time. In 2017, one commuter to Tsukuba famously apologized for having a train leave 20 seconds early, but the Tokyo Subways Tokyo Metro post delays In April of this year, several train lines were running about 10 minutes late. In New York City, delays are common. In 2022, New York City of an additional 64 minutes on platforms cumulatively each month, as well as an extra 18 But the MTA says that's an improvement. - We have right now the of our subway system in over 10 years. It may not be up to Asia's it's really a great step We have an old system, so there are things that You have a huge system of which require a ton of maintenance. - [Narrator] Japan's history of investment in public transportation gives Tokyo the upper hand for its rail system. - It would take years, if not decades, of very significant investment for it to match the levels of efficiency as the Tokyo subway system on that for the last 60 years. (light music)