[ Music ] We'd like to welcome everyone to the 75th and Program. I'm Gary La Point. I'm a professor of practice and one of your hosts for this afternoon. We have a really nice program We're pleased to recognize two We're going to hear from them shortly, as well as recognize some outstanding And to get the program started, I'd like to the podium for some opening remarks. Vice Chancellor Haynie, esteemed welcome to the 75th Annual Harry E. As Gary mentioned, my name is Alex McKelvie. I'm the Interim Dean here at the Whitman School. And I'm delighted to have you here today but a great program, outstanding program. Before we get started, I'd like to Firekeepers of the Haudenosaunee, on whose ancestral lands The Salzberg Program is a special and our supply chain management First, this program helps of our nationally ranked supply For those of you who didn't know, the Whitman in the country. OK, it started actually in 1919. 1919, it's over 100 years ago. And this event, the Salzberg event, Our faculty in this area, many of whom consist of leaders in their field, inspiring teachers, and influencers The Salzberg Medallion that we'll be Hence, the making of this as the 75 years is a lot in business, and especially of world wars, huge turbulence in the world, for 75 years running is a huge thing. And it's therefore no surprise that this of the most prestigious in the field of That's just the first of these reasons. A second reason is that this event showcases and our outstanding group of scholars. It recognizes innovators, those who are willing than what is simply accepted norms. And these are the types of values and approaches In other words, your leadership, our in this area will help to inspire our students And I'll say from a big picture, this of the most important things a globally That means bringing together teaching, and best practice from industry. So the list of our awardees The topics that they're talking about for the many guests who were able Third, and I think this is the is that this program is especially that are timely from our distinguished speakers. The topics our speakers are going to talk broadly speaking, of supply chain globalization, sustainability, and well-being. So those of you who follow the news, see that these topics reflect significant to the field of supply chain in recent years, on today, like with the port strike. This area, especially related to sustainability, also aligns with the Salzberg Those of you who don't know is that the through recycling and repurposing old railroads. So the fact that we're recognizing of this program is important, is timely, but also shows that the Salzberg family But also as global citizens, and these issues are things that you all need And ideally having great, deep And for that latter reason, I think the Salzberg and relevant and I can't think of anything on right now in the world that reflects this. So many thanks to the organizing Gary La Point for their work this I see Fran Tucker who ran this for many to support the team, great to have her back. And also the entire Whitman you know, Dawn, the entire team who to really put on a great event today. So thank you all for coming. It's my great privilege now to introduce to you of Syracuse University and Thank you. Dean McKelvie. And let me add my welcome to all of the leaders who have joined us from across at the Martin J. Whitman School of Management. I also want to thank our students who apparently of this auditorium, but you're here. So thank you all for being here. And thanks everybody for joining us today Like Alex did, I also want to thank the Franklin Supply Chain Management Advisory at the Whitman School who made this possible. You know, I'll start my very brief The Salzberg Medallion that we'll by a Syracuse University sculptor It was five years prior to the first that then Syracuse University Chancellor William to Syracuse University as an artist in And he actually founded the sculpture and set about designing initially such as the iconic medallion And over 75 years, the Salzberg Medallion has as one of the most prestigious of transportation and supply chain management. And certainly, in 2024, supply chain management and transportation issues are And, you know, it is very exciting, I at Syracuse what's happening in Micron's decision to bring what will be the in the world to a location about 12 miles from our campus will fundamentally but also create a great natural who study supply chain and So it is a very exciting And for all these reasons, I'm certainly of the Whitman of this very exciting field moving forward. You know, the Salzberg Medallion award winners who have pioneered new frontiers through research have brought creative thinking and expert problem solving And, you know, what they have in common They have helped us reinvent the way we do more effective, and certainly more sustainable. And that includes continually questioning to align the field with the So while we certainly celebrate a rich I think it's also important, too, that this to continually thinking differently as a business community and as a society. And I think by doing so, much like the we can quite literally change the world. So thank you all for joining us Thank you. Thank you, Dean McKelvie and Vice and we're very excited for today's of the speakers who have joined us today. First, I also want to welcome you all. I'm Professor Julie Niederhoff. I recognize a lot of the students. I'm an associate professor here at of the H.H. Franklin Center for Supply Chain Each year at Whitman, we have the privilege to honor innovators in supply chain management and thought leaders in supply chain management. This event is overseen by the H.H. Franklin I'm going to add to our history today. For those that don't know, the original Herbert who founded the H.H. Franklin to build the very first air-conditioned Fittingly, then, for this year's Salzberg known throughout the world for innovation but in supply chain innovations that have spread Today, we are also honoring Dr. Corbett is a prolific researcher, teacher, particularly in the context of To get us started today with I would first like to invite to introduce you all to Dr. Corbett. In addition to being a professor at and a highly accomplished researcher of having been a doctoral So please welcome Dr. Alptekinoglu. Good afternoon, everyone. I just wanted to say a few things about But before I do that, let me say a few what my experience during the doctoral program and also what kind of impact So I'm not going to give you because that would be quite impossible, but As an advisor to me and as a I will also talk about -- a little bit about And then I will touch on scholarly impacts OK. So that's the -- he's right now at UCLA, All right. So a bit about myself. My first name is Aydin. The way I teach my students how to with no political undertones, obviously. My last name is Alptekinoglu and I usually I just leave it at that. I'm at Penn State. I'm a professor of supply chain and And my PhD was from UCLA. I guess you could guess that. And my background before the PhD was on industrial engineering and I held positions at Florida and SMU before. And I do research on product of supply chains or operations management. I don't know this for a fact, but I think I And as an advisor, in case some of you what I valued the most was that he And this also continues later The best thing about an academic career is So that was number one. And in terms of different aspects from Charles, these would top the list. Research values, what is good research, humility and writing and presenting well If you press me to name just one thing, what as my advisor, I would say In research, that matters a lot. And I think this is -- how this is what I learned from Charles. And beyond that, also later on, as I embarked I settled on why I'm in this profession. And I also cannot help but sort of on what academic life is and what it means. So this is how I would summarize So asking good questions. That's probably a good summary. PhD studentship is really You learn a lot from your advisor. And I certainly did. I was pretty lucky to have And I think Charles means to the He's leading by example in a lot of ways. And so he's usually generous with his And his Socratic approach in research Again, a good quality to look at in a mentor All right. As a friend, I found him always as interesting to talk to, and at his home, he had an extensive beer bottle collection. Just as a side note, right? So a really great friend to talk So what does he mean to the field as a scholar? This is obviously my summary, right? But he's basically most well-known for I think you got that already The current research interests are and wellness in operations management. And he has numerous awards. I picked a few to highlight. The two most prominent academic associations This is MSOM and POMS Fellow Awards. He has numerous teaching awards and influential In my opinion, he has a reputation And not every academic, I think, And one way to think about his research And if you look at number 12, And then number three, good I think those would be kinds of areas Signature approach to research. He's focused typically on finding the with a methodology and try He's very open to going across And this has -- this is something that And often his ideas were pioneering in operations, and supply chain management. This is a short list of areas Sustainability, supply chain management, statistical process control, manufacturing mass customization, so on and so forth. I don't think the list is full because I'm Industries, entertainment, cross-industry data, all And if you just look at numbers in terms 46 papers that has at least 46 citations. So that's called h-index. 32 home runs. From our field, at least, I than 100 citations would be Ad hoc definition, but if you take Charles Corbett has 32 home runs. And he has also two papers meaning approaching thousand citations. Most influential papers or ideas, supply on how economic incentives and strategic with sustainability considerations, right? So that would be one of them. How or if environment friendly This is endemic in the kinds of Carbon footprinting, why double counting of which is kind of a surprising thing to find out. And he has also a series of papers on diffusion A series of papers on -- just on that. The blockbuster papers, the titles are these. The first one is about quality or financial impact of them in the US. And the second one is about All right. So this picture is from Cambridge, UK. I did a sabbatical there when Charles the I did not attend any of those events. So that's King's College. So when I say congratulations, Charles, Thank you. Thank you so much for sharing with us. Thank you, Aydin. I'd now like to invite Dr. Charles along with Dean McKelvie I will read off the chancellor's citation As Vice Chancellor Haynie said, the of work designed by the sculptor Ivan Mestrovic. Great. You said it better than me. I have it written down with pronunciation guide. So are we all set? Great. Thank you. So the chancellor and president has conferred Dr. Charles Corbett is recognized of visionary leadership in Dr. Corbett has been recognized and well-being throughout his career. As the world recognizes the need for operational and fair, Dr. Corbett's research has helped Dr. Corbett's efforts in and educating others have earned the recognition of the Salzberg Medallion, signed Kent Thank you. Dr. Corbett will speak with us we're going to honor our other award winner. So I have the pleasure of introducing our Toyota is one of the most recognizable Toyota has become associated In fact, Toyota has set the The energy crisis of the mid-1970s is what made when the price of gas doubled Although smaller than what US consumers were that was fuel efficient and well built. US automakers wouldn't believe US consumers in Japan over a large American-made These small cars from Japan were three and four at the time and it turned out they When US automakers realized that they they were frantic to manufacture They began producing smaller automobiles, I can clearly remember when I was young, people and I'd say, &quot;It's just as good as a Toyota.&quot; And they were comparing US Up until this point, most people in My very first car was a 1980 Toyota Tercel. Five-speed standard transmission because I couldn't afford It had front-wheel drive, which I remember having to wait months for it because There weren't any on the cars -- I love that car. I drove that car everywhere. I drove it for 200,000 miles. I never had anything go wrong with that car That's all I ever did. I think even back then, I was getting And that's what car companies now are So it was Toyota's mission of making putting all their efforts into ingenuity, looking forward, not backwards, and appreciating Seeing themselves not as an automotive striving to offer mobility to to be the largest auto manufacturer in the world and one of the top 20 largest As one of the world's largest corporations, they take environmental responsibility A foundational building block for Toyota But Toyota has placed a major emphasis with sustainable manufacturing practices with And to deliver products that are environmentally into electric-powered vehicles, as well as Toyota defined what value means to the consumer It's a leader in sustainable mobility that Syracuse University recognizes Toyota I'd like to ask Alex McKelvie and Mike Haynie and logistics and operations for Toyota for the presentation of the Salzberg Award. So I'd like to read the chancellor's citation. Toyota Motor Corporation is recognized of its visionary leadership Toyota has distinguished itself as a global by eliminating waste, optimizing processes, and Toyota has achieved unparalleled Toyota's enduring success serves for organizations globally and have earned with the awarding of the Salzberg and president of Syracuse University.