- This car costs $10 million. - What? - And what's even crazier is And this one costs $70 million. We're gonna react to the most starting with this one. It's just that $10,000 beater. You know, a car you and your boys can buy. - It's pretty cool. It's fun. - You put the right filter - You can make any car look good. Look, here's an ice cream truck. Even with this music and - Agreed. - I like the camber on it, though. That's when the wheels go . - Yep. And now we're gonna double the price and move to a Honda Civic. - Yeah, we give away these on - These cars are gonna $15,000 'cause that's what the car costs, and 5,000 to make commercials like this. - Yeah, that's fair. It actually does look a lot better now. The Honda Civic's a not a bad price. - And up next we have a Polaris Slingshot. Now this will run you about $30,000. These are pretty cool. - This isn't a car, it's like a tricycle. Motor tricycle? - Tri-car. I see old men driving near where I live. - Same. I saw one this morning. - I wanna try driving it. It looks fun. Didn't you give one away in a video? - We did. Dream bought it in this mystery box. - Yeah. - Up next is a Tesla Model 3. It'll run you around 45 grand. - Hey, this is my car. Mine's white like that. - What's crazy is this Tesla cost 45 grand and there are literally that cost $45 million. - Wait, that's like... - 100 times... No, 1,000 times 4. I don't feel like mathing. If you've never ridden in These cars are amazing, they have full self-driving autopilot, and they're all around really cool. - $45,000 for a self-driving - This next car is the Bumblebee And you can buy this for $75,000. - Why does this look like a parade in the middle of nowhere? - A better question is, - Do you have $75,000 to go towards it? - Depends how many views this gets. - Guys, watch this so we - This next car is an Aston Martin. It's actually known as the James Bond car and it's worth $100,000. This is what you get when your hair is finally but you wanna show you got - I think I'm gonna be there - See, here's the thing, so I'm sure, like, that some people are like, &quot;Oh my God, V6.&quot; - Ah. But I'm just like, metal. - Metal. I mean, yeah, it's a very cool car, but it's a classic car. I wanna see new and expensive. - I just wanna see some Lambos. - How about a 2021 Mercedes-Benz G-Class? - This G-Wagon right - I love this car. - It looks like he's driving a bus. - I know. I like feeling like I'm above everybody. - This is a supercharged Audi R8. I know so many YouTubers If you're a YouTuber, or, like, a cheap Lamborghini. - Especially if you play &quot;Minecraft.&quot; &quot;Minecraft&quot; YouTubers own nice cars. - Oh, speaking of Lamborghini, here's the Lamborghini Huracan. - I drove one of these all day one day for that video where we raced. It was so much fun. - These cars are nice. I've never personally owned a Lamborghini, but I've literally given away, like, four or five in the main - Look at that. That's a custom pink one. - If my girlfriend sees - Look, here's the thing, she doesn't watch these. - You're right. Hey, look, it's a pink Lamborghini. My girlfriend will never see this. - That is crazy, though. Imagine owning a car that expensive. And this is a McLaren. - So you're telling me, costs $40,000 more than that Lamborghini? - Yes, sir. - This is way uglier. - No. - Yeah, dude. - Lamborghini are pretty. - Lamborghinis are so ugly. McLarens are so much nicer. - Dude, it literally - Lamborghini is the - All right, so this is a - He putting Nyan Cat on it. Nyan, nyan, nyan, Purrari, that's funny. That is funny. - That is quite funny. - Is Nyan Cat on a Pop-Tart? - It is a Pop-Tart. It's a Pop-Tart and a cat. - Interesting. - This is truly like an actual, - This car will run you around $300,000. I mean, it's fast, but, like, I don't go on drag strips. Like I don't need a car that's fast, I just want one that looks cool. - I want one that goes fast. You know, you can go and just race it. - You know, I don't want to do that. I just want the nicest - Yeah, he's a looks guy. I want performance. - Your wife wants performance. - Hey, yeah, she does. Yeah, she does. - Oh, anime car. Can I have this one? - This is Lil Uzi Vert's. Yeah, look at that. Look at the steering wheel. Oh my god. Yeah, maybe we're doing it wrong. - Maybe instead of I should keep a Lamborghini. I'm unlocking my potential as a YouTuber. My channel will start dying now. - Hey, this is a Rolls Royce for $360,000. - Tell me there's no difference between my bottom Invisalign case and the thing on the front of it. Tell me there's no difference. My teeth modeled that. You're welcome. - That's freaking cool. $360,000, Jimmy, this could be you. - That little seat extender - See, on the inside it looks really nice, but on the outside it just looks like that default car you steal in But look at that. That's nice. - Thank you for the 18-wheeler comparison. - That is what an 18-wheeler looks like. - In case you forgot, that's and that's an 18-wheeler on the right. Any car company of the world, assuming you have a car give me and Chris one of them, each, a car, and we'll promote you, This is Travis Scott's Lamborghini. 450 grand. - Look at the rims. They're giant. - Wow. - It's got its own custom interior. - McDonald's be paying well, dog. - Yeah. This used to be one of my favorite cars. It's no longer my favorite car. $500,000. Look at the body on it. - Why would you not buy a Lamborghini? - Look at all that. - Dude, the steering - It's a sports car. It's so fast and it's beautiful. - Now we are getting in the big bucks. This is our first $1 million car. - The McLaren Senna. - Oh, wait. McLaren's the fishbowl car. - Look at this car. - Fishbowl. - No. What? - I mean, it's better. There's no way you can than this Lamborghini right here. - That is beautiful. That is class. do you see how behind it Yeah, just because you doesn't mean you're above the law. - You have to follow the parking law. I don't like the Pagani. - What is that mirror? - It's got a really nice interior. I like the interior. The car actually, like, - Oh, really? - Yeah, but I don't like The mirrors are goofy. - The mirrors are a turn-off for me. If you told me it was a but 1.5 mil? - It definitely is a My favorite car. It's my favorite car. This is my favorite car. The Lotus Evija. - This car right here costs $2,100,000. Let's see what the rave is about. - I've always loved the Lotus brand, but this is their first, - I mean, the thing is, this is just perfect lighting. Show me it outside. This isn't fair. Every other car's been outside. That's a $2.1 million Lotus. And the crazy part is it can't get much more But it can. - It can? - There's a $70 million car. Keep watching. So if a car costs $2.5 million and you just accidentally scratch it, just, like, a little bit with your nail, does that cost, like, 20 grand? - If it's on the carbon fiber, yeah, if you want to get it fixed. If you want me to get let's get together and I want to. - We gotta spend millions just for you to hang out. No, you don't have to buy a You can race in... The Teslas are fine. - Okay, okay. This is a Ferrari F40. 3.3 million doll hairs. - Here's another one of those expensive-'cause-it's-old cars. - I can tell it's old, but also 'cause the music. - Yeah, it's '80s. Oh, he's got stickers on a car - When you're buying cars this expensive, you don't care about money. I've been waiting for this, okay. - The Bugatti. - It's time. Our very first Bugatti. And luckily, this It's not even 4 million bucks. - That's cheap. It's about to break the They're worried the car's gonna take off. - 298, 299. - 300. - Wow. So that's the first ever car - Wow. Imagine going that fast. That has to feel like the car could lift off - Now it's time for a That looks like the gray Is that why it's so expensive? 'Cause it's a robot? - I don't know if this one was a robot, but I think there's only, - If Lamborghini made 200 of these, that'd be literally a - So you're telling me, they could just make a bunch and then just have infinite money. - They're like, &quot;Huh. We could make hundreds of these cars, or we could just make one of &quot;Let's do that.&quot; - Hey, it's another expensive-'cause-old. But this is nice. - Been cherished in for over 50 years. - Only one family's owned that. That's pretty cool. It is a nice car, $5 million? - And now we're back to - This is worth 6 million. I think I'll take that one singular car. Then I'll probably just end - And if you thought that was crazy, this is double the price. - I just don't understand. - Yeah, I mean, now it's You could literally buy and then keep $11 million. - Wait, it comes with luggage. Nevermind. - Oh, you're right. This Porsche? 14 millie. - The most iconic racing sports car ever. - Now I'm gonna act like I know why. - It's 'cause of Steve McQueen. - I don't know who that is. - He went really, really fast in it. - Congrats, Steve. And now it's time for the holy grail. The most expensive car in the world, or at least most expensive I don't know if it's actually the most expensive car in the world. The 1963 Ferrari. - wHat, they're driving a $70 Holy crap. - What, does this guy have - Who is the guy that owns this car? Robert Downey Jr.? - You can probably count on your hand the amount of people that I think I've reached a verdict. I'm keeping my $70 million. - I think I reached a verdict. I don't have $70 million.