When you think about this call, Very And so I am very curious about kind of Is there kind of any upside that could that is outside of this base case? the next year and then we'll look at the for full year, decade of performance. S&amp;P 500 rising around 8%, 9% total And the thought process behind that is Inflation is coming down. Earnings are growing 11% in calendar And that sets up with a valuation today compression in the multiple that is the 12 months of roughly 9%. what's the probable total return that an weighted S&amp;P 500 index? somewhere between -1% and positive 7%. What is the driving force behind that Well, there are two issues. We know when the market trades at a high ten years is typically low relative to was low at the beginning, you tend to subsequent as a substantive decade. adjusted p e multiple that's different But the based on the cyclical adjusted times, that's the 97th percentile versus So it's a very, very expensive starting And what's new about the analysis is concentration. concentration markets in 100 years. around 36% of the index. concentration. concentration market, you have a subsequent ten years. different variables. And so there's two different influences modest return. portfolio manager that the way you want The equal weight in return is likely to So instead of 3% for an aggregate index, weighted index. Well, but the the concentration is in, I right? their spaces globally. come on board soon. I may go public in the next decade. decade, I actually stole this chart from But the only time that we've had catastrophic events the Great crisis. come again over the next decade? of the market, The relative performance index we're focusing on is a strategy We deal with some of our largest Sovereign wealth funds, pension funds, offices. horizon, they think about asset of a very concentrated market is what And that is the emphasis of this report, the analytics behind it and the model We look at rates, we look at the profitability and they are a way of And so all of these variables at the stock, that's how we get to a conclusion return strategy from our perspective Well, David, I want to talk about the because you say that it's likely that environment. if you're not calling for a recession back to zero. Aren't cash yields going to stay credit or duration risk there? look at private credit. potential way of diversifying a The idea of treasuries, ten year So if you were to start today and look central case of our forecast, something But if you look at the distribution, there are a lot of reasons why you could closer to 7%. You know, you typically get around three in the S&amp;P 500 turn over every year. You're probably looking at a third of don't exist today in the index. that could happen. rapidly, more slowly than than a Those are those are the issues I. could raise productivity. better than our base case scenario, the upside and downside. well is a one third chance that you had 2034. what is the risk that it could be What if the neutral rate is higher? equity market returns? now, the tips breakevens are around And so based on a scenario where you annualized versus positive 7%, kind of relatively normal type distribution. give you a prospect of a return that's That's not the base case, but it You know, when deal with portfolio is the risks that are introduced into And the argument behind a broadening of So one of the arguments on why mid-cap rest of the market in the coming year, the Fed cutting rates. floating rate. They have less interest expense. Positive earnings revisions drives And so those are, you know, tactical So we think about tactics, we think the purpose of writing the report. clients about how should we think about in the equities. David, We don't have a lot of time left. I know that Matt has a question as well. I want to get existential about the think back to January. average were expecting the S&amp;P 500 to It's up 23%. getting harder to model to forecast Well, it is challenging because a third about ten stocks. You have some health care stocks. is in the top ten companies, for Depends on the day where we're looking It could be Visa, Broadcom, different with the big tech companies that we're And so it's challenging to look at that And you can look at the rest of the So you think about those big stocks. That's a 2.7% or so earnings yield. year treasuries. And then you have the concentration item The rest of the market has a positive And so that's one of the attractive of the market and why we anticipate that David, I have an election night question When you scotch and your pipe or whatever, and click on Bloomberg TV. what are the indexes or the assets or election night as we hopefully get a the White House in the next four years. close in terms of the polls and things So I think there's a couple of things Is there a split Congress versus the certain executive actions that can be tariffs, whether it's respect to certain presidency he or she could could Whereas if there's a sweep on the direction, there are potential So that's sort of the first question I The second is we think about, well, what What would they be? domestically are likely to outperform US of the world because there could be So that's one strategy that we might We might look at companies that have you might want to think about. portfolio managers. We trade on Bloomberg with clients based