(keyboard clicking) - [Michael] Hi. I'm Michael, this is &quot;Lessons &quot;Parasite&quot; is a tense social the Kims, who con their way into becoming the servants of a rich family, the Parks. In February 2020, it made history by becoming the first to ever win Best Picture Which raises the question, why was this South Korean film able to resonate across the world? There are many answers to this question. Co-writer and director Bong Joon-Ho executes masterful filmmaking the performances are compelling, and the plot tells the story of a disillusionment arc in a visceral way. But I want to focus on the way &quot;Parasite&quot; and motifs to express its theme. These are tools that can directing our focus to of wealth vs. poverty, again and again. So today, I want to demonstrate how Bong Joon-Ho establishes key symbols to represent the Kim as well as the truth they can't escape. To explore how these symbols are developed into motifs that enrich the character's emotional journeys. And to examine the way these motifs come to an explosive end that fully renders the film's theme. Let's take a look at &quot;Parasite.&quot; A symbol is simply a thing that represents or stands for something else. And as John Truby points out, this simple representation can have a powerful impact on an audience, writing &quot;symbols give &quot;that emotionally sways the audience. &quot;Just as matter is highly &quot;a symbol is highly concentrated meaning.&quot; There are many symbols in &quot;Parasite,&quot; but there are two in particular the viewing stone and smell. The viewing stone is shortly after we meet the Kim family. From the very first scene, we understand that they are living a life of poverty. But the son, Ki-Woo, believes they can work their way out of poverty and join the affluent class. When Ki-Woo's wealthy friend Min pays the family a visit, he brings them a gift, a viewing stone. (speaking foreign language) The captions for Ki-Woo's response say. (speaking foreign language) And in the screenplay, (speaking foreign language) In both cases, the intention is clear, the viewing stone is a symbol. An Bong Joon-Ho says, &quot;this very unique position. &quot;It's a kind of obsession &quot;Throughout the film, he's &quot;his rich friend who &quot;Min disappears in this film &quot;but the rock is sort of the The viewing stone that he is destined for just like his friend Min. This first symbol is introduced early in the film on page nine, but the second symbol I want to examine isn't explicitly introduced until page 57. At this point in the story, the entire Kim family has infiltrated the home of the Parks, in various domestic positions. And as Bong Joon-Ho says, &quot;the jobs &quot;that these characters take, tutoring, &quot;housekeeping, and driving, feature &quot;a rare moment where the rich and poor &quot;are together in a very &quot;to one another that they &quot;It was kind of the perfect Da-Song suddenly starts sniffing the air. Da-Song runs over to Ki-Tek and shoves his nose in his pant leg. He runs over to Chung-Sook and shoves his nose in her (speaking foreign language) When the Park family's the Kims smell the same, to reveal their true identities. But beyond serving a function in the plot, smell is used as a symbol. It represents the poverty that the Kims, and particularly Kai-Tek, can't escape. (speaking foreign language) But rather than simply and utilizing it once, and even manipulated, over time. As John Truby again writes, &quot;a symbol creates a resonance, &quot;like ripples in a pond, &quot;As you repeat the symbol, &quot;the ripples expand and reverberate &quot;in the minds of the audience &quot;often without their being When symbols are repeated, The word motif has several definitions, but for the purpose of the literary definition detailed in an article by MasterClass. &quot;Motif is a literary &quot;of a repeated element that has symbolic significance So in &quot;Parasite,&quot; the as a representation of Ki-Woo's aspiration for wealth creates a symbol. But when the film repeatedly brings the viewing stone back it becomes a motif. So what's special about repeating a symbol to create a motif? Let's look at how and when the viewing stone to examine this. Returning to earlier in the film, after Ki-Woo receives the stone he starts taking bold actions to of wealth and status. With Min's recommendation, and after forging a a tutoring job for the Parks. So right when the Kim family seems to have achieved some success, the script brings back the A short, barely standing drunk man is relieving himself in the corner. Ki-woo jumps up. He grabs the viewing stone from the table and walks toward the door. Seeing the symbol of the of its original meaning, for wealth and status. But when we first saw it, and his family are on their The next time we see the rock, however, Ki-Woo's After the Park family nearly discovers their true identities, the Kims return to their semi-basement apartment and find it completely flooded. Something touches his foot in the water. He bends over and reaches into the murky depths, eventually finding the viewing stone that Min-Hyuk gave the family as a gift. Ki-Woo pants heavily as he hugs the rock. It's like he just found Again we remember what it once meant. First aspiration for wealth and status, then what seemed to be And now, as Ki-Woo clutches it to his chest, we see how to this goal that is slipping away. (speaking foreign language) This recurrence has created a motif, one that externalizes Ki-Woo's inner feelings about wealth and status. The symbol of smell After it's introduced as a representation of the poverty Ki-Tek cannot escape from, that idea is reinforced (speaking foreign language) Ki-Tek becomes nervous, (speaking foreign language) Ki-Tek, Ki-Woo, and Ki-Jung can do nothing but silently take hit after hit. The Park family's and the invisible line that separates them is explored throughout the We've now seen how a story can take something like a stone and imbue it with meaning to create a symbol, and how that symbol can and manipulated to create a motif. But there's one last In &quot;Parasite,&quot; the two motifs together express the story's theme. So what is theme? In a recent podcast we did for the patrons of &quot;Beyond the Screenplay,&quot; the whole LFTS team weighed in on how to define theme and how to recognize it. As Tricia Aurand said. - [Tricia] Theme is a lesson from a story that is textually So it has to be something This is in there, and this is in there, and this is in there. All of these things are about life, or humankind, or the universe. - But then how is theme In &quot;The Cambridge author H. Porter Abbott describes the differences between motif and theme. &quot;As technical terms, they are &quot;though motif is especially &quot;But as a general working &quot;of narrative, a theme is Essentially, a motif is to in the text of a film. The viewing stone appears on screen, smell is discussed in But theme is the meaning being In &quot;Parasite,&quot; we can as the story builds to its climax. After their narrow escape and we see a kind of despair (speaking foreign language) The motif of smell comes to remind Ki-Tek of his pushing him toward a breaking point. Meanwhile, Ki-Woo is very close to attaining his dream (speaking foreign language) But there's a problem. The previous housekeeper in the basement, know and could ruin everything. So the motif of the viewing stone returns as he grabs the symbol to use as a weapon against those But while Ki-Woo is to free him once and for it actually becomes a And it's at this moment that one last time, in the When Ki-Tek is confronted the smell of poverty is an and finally snaps. Symbols are introduced repeated and modified to create motifs, which ultimately express one People in poverty, often do not have the power &quot;Parasite&quot; is an excellent the age-old literary devices of symbols and motifs to elevate an They can transcend language and culture, creating stories that And in the case of a pitch-perfect social satire and leaves us with a film that has become a symbol of its own. (dramatic music) Hey guys, Michael here. Hope you enjoyed the video. I want to quickly tell you about a project I'm involved Nebula is a subscription by and featuring creators like myself. It's a place where you can watch all of our videos ad-free and and create exclusive content In the &quot;Casino Royale&quot; video I mentioned other film creators on Nebula and there are a lot of awesome ones. But Nebula features the educational content space. Do you love Polyphonic's video He's got a four-part Nebula Original called &quot;The Dark Side Do you enjoy having as if we're all in a video game? Tier Zoo who has a Nebula Original series called &quot;Let's Play Outside.&quot; And are you a nerd like me that is completely engrossed of the logistics of various Wendover Productions has called &quot;The World's Most Useful Airport.&quot; By signing up for Nebula, you're supporting creators you love and getting some exclusive But it gets even better. CuriosityStream, the to thousands of top-quality and documentaries, has So if you sign up for the link in the description With this bundle you're like myself and getting CuriosityStream and its thousands of great documentaries. So head to the link in the description below to sign up today. Thanks to CuriosityStream and thank you as always to the patrons on Patreon for making Thanks for watching, and