Male Speaker: Good morning, (laughter) Mr. President, distinguished and honored welcome to the headquarters of And thank you to the many Director Haspell on A historic swearing To begin the ceromony, please the National Anthem and please the invocation. (The Star Spangled Banner) (Applause) Male Speaker: I invite you to Let us pray. Gracious God, we ask ceremony and through it nation in this agency to this defence of our citizens Our director Jinnah Haspel of our nation's leaders because and record of selfless service Since she has led from the and come from their ranks. She is ready to assume the which although most of their to those whom they protect, ensure that our freedoms remain She is quick to humbly and share that she did not without the help love Beginning with her parents and those who contributed just as she has given to so Help her to continue to to make decisions under pressure the duties of her office Help her to be provide with candor to our nation's surround her with confidants she must bear when making must make so that she is to the loneliness that in such high Finally Lord, grant that she may have of this team which she now our nation ever to others around the world. Amen. Male Speaker: Ladies and honored to have President Once again, please join the President of (Applause) The President: Well, And good morning. I want to thank all of guests for joining us few will ever have again -- including Vice President Secretary Mnuchin, Secretary Nielsen, nominee for the VA a fantastic job, Thank you very much. I want to give a special to Chairman and Thank you very And a very courageous man Congressman Devin Nunes. Thank you very much, Appreciate it. Most especially, I want to men and women of the It is a true honor to the most elite on the planet Earth. Nobody even close. You face down our enemies. You protect our families. You stand and watch You don't do it for fame You do it for America is Thank you very much. We're here today for the special person, your new has served this agency and devotion for 30 Gina, congratulations. There is no one in this for this extraordinary By the way, if you don't let me know now before (Laughter) Immediately. Have to do it quickly. You live in the CIA, you you breathe the CIA. And now you will Congratulations. (Applause) Okay, that mean (Laughter) That was -- waiting for. They love you. They respect you. They respect you, too. A native of Ashland, served in the U.S. Air Force. She spent much of her From a young age, she was of our country, which, adventure -- that Throughout her storied Gina has truly She's completed seven case officer, recruited captured terrorists, and that proliferate They send those weapons You're going to get even better than ever before. You're the best. You're going to be better we're getting you the Our enemies will take She is strong. And when it comes to Gina will never, I know her. I spent a lot of Gina played a crucial role Her first day in Counterterrorism Center And she tirelessly hunted for the next three years. She went on to become National Clandestine Deputy Director During her decades of Gina has earned Bush Award for Excellence the Intelligence Most importantly, she respect, admiration, and here at the CIA, and all over the world. Gina is truly respected. And today we also mark as Gina becomes the first (Applause) That's big. That's big. Now Gina will lead this agency Gina assumes the role of moment in our history. We are reasserting American confidence. And, by the way, America You see that. Instead of apologizing standing up for our standing up for the men and We will be counting on you of threats we face, and to prosperity and of peace. Since the CIA's founding its courageous operatives craft with modern marvels victories in every I see what you do, I And it's incredible. Marked on the hallowed the stars honoring the gave their last Though many of their names stories of service and live for all time. Today, we think of them pledging that the patriots tools, the resources, and accomplish their and oftentimes very The exceptional men and deserve exceptional And in Gina Haspel, that Director Haspel, I know that you will Director and help keep our and proud, and free. Good luck. God bless you. And God bless the men And God bless America. And I just want to thank doing such an incredible that unbelievable It took courage for her to lot of very negative supposed to be But I'll tell you, when committee, it was over. There was not much There was nobody more And you are going to do Thank you very much. Thank you, Gina. (Applause) So, with that, Vice President to Thank you all very much. Thank you. (Applause) (The Oath of The Vice President: (Applause) Director Haspel: Good And thank you, Mr. administering the Oath. Let me begin by thanking joining us today and for Mr. President, it means a the agency that you made Langley for this ceremony. The President: Thank you. Thank you. (Applause) Director enormous trust in And the men and women of CIA So, thank you, Mr. confidence in me and your mission and our people. I am truly honored to have the best workforce It has been nearly 50 officer rose up through the And after the experience think I know why that is. (Laughter) I look out in a strong representation of and possibly I am looking at two young who join us today. CIA has been more It has been, for me -- In this building and there are officers mission, sometimes at I want each of you to position of director represent you, as My years at CIA have could never have imagined, give it and you my all. There are countless role have paved the way for As the Director, I want team to be role models generation of officers who far-flung capitals and here at headquarters For me, being Director is of you so that you have needed to carry out Every CIA officer has just did to support and against all enemies. And today I recommit that power to justify the faith the American people have sure that CIA continues to needed to keep I would be remiss if I tremendous pride I take in serve as Director. I would not be standing for the remarkable courage by generations of OSS and large and small, who broke down barriers, and opened I am deeply indebted to proud to follow in their on their extraordinary I stand on the shoulders sought public acclaim but the generations that I also want express a welcome to Eliza and Zoe, The notes from these two seven, sent to me sat on months and In their own words and pictures, about the opportunity my And to Eliza and Zoe, I (Applause) Lastly, allow about the future A little over a year ago, spoke to me about becoming At that time, he said, preeminent intelligence make sure we position Mike was right; And our challenge is We cannot rest We must learn from the in the past. We must constantly learn, strive to be better. We demanded of ourselves, nothing less. That includes boosting proficiency, strengthening and here at home, and officers to the We are a foreign our workforce and our We also need greater strategic threats our the persistent threat As always, the key to our challenges will be talent that The men and women who treasure -- from the collect our intelligence, contextualize and evaluate makers, to the support aspect of our mission, to and cyber specialists who over our adversaries. The only way to confront ahead with determination expeditionary spirit that since its founding more I am profoundly honored to to work alongside each one vital mission. So, Mr. President, thank the opportunity to serve, women of CIA, and to carry helping protect our our way of life. Thank you very much. (Applause)