- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, This is SpaceX's Raptor engine that powers is their Starship When this thing is running, there is unbelievably hot combustion, continually burning at In fact, the gases inside can reach about 3,500 K, about half as hot as which is above the melting any material out there. But this heat is kind of what makes a rocket engine function. I mean, after all their only real purpose is to convert the chemical into pressure and often therefore heat so they can produce thrust. And that brings up an obvious question. How in the heck do How did rocket scientists running continuously while that's hot enough to not just melt the metal walls containing it, but actually vaporize the metal or more pedantically sublimate the metal from solid to a gas in an instant, but we'll just say melt for So today we're going to talk employ to keep rocket Here's the timestamps to the sections we're going to be going fuel to oxidizer ratios, ablative cooling, regenerative cooling, film And we're also going to be of each of these as well. And if you're someone who instead of hear me talk we do have an article version of this up at our website at and there's a link in the Rocket engines, too cool to melt, but how? Let's get started. - [Announcer] Three, two, one, (mumbles) (upbeat music) - This is a combustion chamber. At the top of it is the injector face. This is where the fuel into the chamber at very high pressures. The fuel and the oxidizer of the injector face inside and they'll ignite and then combust, assuming there's adequate that repellents will burn. But with ridiculously hot in between the metal chamber walls, we certainly don't want the metal to melt. So perhaps the easiest the metal walls so thick, can't heat up all the metal The walls act, as what's or a giant thermal conductor that can handle a high heat before it warms up all of the The use of exotic materials Something that can handle such as inconel or other alloys, but of course, price or certainly come into play. Obviously, first off, if you're using thick they're going to be quite heavy. And in a world where rocket for even a 5% weight reduction, so incredibly thick they don't melt is not only far from optimal, it's downright primitive. The other problem is you an engine for so long heat it all up to its melting point. So it has inherent This option isn't a very good choice for main propulsion engines, where they might need to run for several minutes continuously. But this option is actually such as reaction control thrusters. Reaction control and run in shorter duration burns. This allows them an opportunity This keeps them simple and reliable, but with limitations on continuous runtime to keep them from melting. But what if you could just lower the temperature of the combustion? A less hot gas might make it and might make long duration Well, that actually is an option. (rocket engine roaring) The next relatively to keep your engine intact with more fuel or more oxidizer otherwise known as fuel which can lower the This ratio is the fuel Now, if you want it to burn and have absolutely as much of it react with each other as possible, you'd need to burn it at what's known as its stoichiometric ratio. This is where there's the exact to perfectly react as with each other, which leaves But burning out your stoichiometric ratio also means you're releasing as much heat from the chemical bonds as possible too. While that might actually that is not ideal in a rocket the more heat your engine is producing, the more you need to cool so it doesn't melt and you're of the tactics that we're going to be discussing in this video. So rocket engines need to run a bit off from stoichiometric. Main combustion chambers because this usually results and higher efficiency, not to mention scorching hot gaseous as much as possible, since it sure loves to turn metal into soup will end up running engine rich and that's definitely not good. (rocket exploding) But beyond just the main fuel to oxidizer ratio, you can also run your very fuel rich or oxidizer rich in order to keep it cool too. In fact, you can burn it at a cooler temperature than you would your main combustion chamber. And quick side note, if you don't know what a don't worry, I've got you covered. Check out my Soviet rocket engine video. In the beginning in the glossary, I go over a lot of terms for this video and frankly, all Okay, back to keeping your with your fuel to oxidizer ratio. This is extremely important a spinning turbine. You're really stuck with that it can actually take And you just kind of simply have to change your fuel to oxidizer ratio And unlike the fuel rich turbines can be designed to For example, the space shuttle's RS-25 main engines ran fuel rich through their preburner while the Soviet designed NK-33 through their close cycle preburners. But all of this is rocket and performance and So we don't want a big heavy engine or one that's sandbagging its but we also don't want our (rocket engine roaring) Welcome to perhaps one of the most simple and effective ways to cool an engine, and that is, well to allow it to melt, but just a little bit. This is called ablative cooling. Ablative cooling is that will vaporize and which takes the heat along with it. It's most commonly made which have a very high melting point. This is also the same principle many spacecraft use on their heat shields. When a spacecraft is coming back into the atmosphere for and the heat shield It takes it right in the face. And then when the surface gets too hot, it basically melts a layer This prevents heat from penetrating And this is the same idea you can use to cool a rocket engine. Inside the metal walls and the nozzle will be a As the propellant burns inside the engine, the carbon liner will Now, if you're anything like me, you might think this sounds but it's actually an incredibly efficient and reliable method of cooling since it's self-regulating, and is incredibly effective, but it does have its limitations. Obviously, if you're looking you should probably look elsewhere. In fact, some engines may not be able to go through their because it will wear down And because the chamber and their performance can actually as your throat's area will increase a lot compared to the nozzle exit, which will decrease the of the engine, which is the opposite of into thinner parts of the atmosphere. And it's also quite heavy. The ablative material is just extra stuff that weighs a decent amount. Perhaps one of the most Apollo Lunar Ascent engine, which could not be test before being lit on to get astronauts home. Yes, that's a terrifying thought. Some other examples of are SpaceX's first Merlin which flew on the first and United Launch Alliance's On the RS-68A, you can easily because the engine runs on a nearly completely transparent (mumbles), just water vapor, like we But the RS-68A's exhaust is bright orange because the carbon that from the engine continues to react with the oxygen in the atmosphere, which makes it burn bright orange. Sometimes reaction control thrusters use ablative chambers too, since they are often used in amount of propellant they So engineers can design the maximum use case. Okay, but what if ablative cooling is just not cool enough for you? Well, then we've got a few (rocket engine roaring) Perhaps the most common way to keep a liquid fueled rocket engine from melting is by using regenerative cooling. This is where they flow some through the walls of the before it goes through the Yeah, that's right. Even though the walls and the nozzles of rocket engines look super thin, there's often a very can run up and down the walls This was a major breakthrough to run more or less indefinitely. Early versions of regeneratively the main chamber and on the outside of it to run Later it became common to actually just use pipes to form the In fact, the RL10 engine still uses braze tube construction today, although they are working A more modern practice is in the walls of the combustion and then use a copper or a and then that will be the Copper and nickel alloys are to transfer heat from the thanks to their high thermal conductivity. Now you might be asking, doesn't that boil the fuel Yeah, it sure can. And this process of boiling to spin the turbines to run This is what the expander cycle is. It harnesses the energy of the going from liquid to gas. It is extremely efficient, but it is limited by the We'll talk more about the expander cycle in an upcoming video, where we go over pretty much about their pros and cons. Most engines use the fuel as coolant, but oxidizer could be used as well. But a fun little thing to know is when cryogenic propellants are used, the outside walls of the rocket nozzles can be unbelievably cold, while the inside of the Talk about a temperature gradient. Check out this video of an RS-25 running. If you went up and your hand would freeze solid, touch the inside and it It's honestly crazy to me that in such close proximity. One of the challenges with the pressure inside the walls than the pressure of the That's right. The tiny little channels the thin little walls of a under higher pressure than the main combustion chamber itself. This is because of the fact just tubes that feed the injectors from high to low. So the injectors always than the combustion chamber. But it's just crazy to me that inside the walls need to handle that really high pressure too. Seems like with such thin walls, it'd be so easy to spring a leak. Well, if a leak does spring, Let's pretend a leak of a regenerative cool chamber, because the pressure than the pressure inside the chamber, all that will happen is and actually provide Firefly CEO, Tom Markusic, when I interviewed him at their factory outside of Austin, Texas. - Yeah, engines are amazing (inaudible). I haven't seen this here as much, but I've seen places where the engine will actually erode itself down to the point where it starts leaking and then it's happy, and it doesn't go any further. It just like self regulates. - Yeah, interesting. But wait, if fuel leaks into the chamber, how would that not just make an even bigger problem? How on earth can that help cool an engine? Well, that brings us to our next method of cooling, film cooling. - [Announcer] Lift off, we have lift off. - Another common method of This is where you inject a fluid between the combustion chamber and nozzle surface and the hot combustion gases, because don't forget, fluids So this can be done in either form with liquid or gaseous propellants. The basic mechanism at play the wall and the hot a thermal insulation with a So how exactly do they do this? Well, let's start off One easy way to do liquid film have a higher concentration on the outer perimeter Engineers will almost always use fuel since the main combustion so there'll be a whole ring the outer perimeter that of oxidizer to react with. This will produce a ring of which prevents heat from transferring from the main combustion but not only that, most of won't react at all because it won't have any oxidizer to react with. So it actually just travels of the combustion chamber and a film traps between the combusted And if it is a liquid, it will likely phase change then that'll create a vapor absorbed some heat energy in It's common to actually assuming they're regeneratively cooled, to intentionally leak in some of the fuel, especially in particular hotspots, like the throat of the engine. Another weird benefit of using create a carbon layer in the when using a carbon-based fuel like RP-1. When you have a fuel rich combustion, there's a lot of carbon and can create soot. Just look at the exhaust for the Merlin engine. SpaceX runs the combustion extremely fuel rich in order so the turbine doesn't melt, As a by-product, you see is very, very dark and sooty. This is the same type of to the walls of the chamber and which is having that soot and potentially the cooling which can clog them up. But the soot that sticks to the walls is another thermal barrier that can help. Again, let's hear Tom We also saw great evidence of this soot when we were up close and personal with their (mumbles) engines as evidenced by the soot on Tom's face. - Also (mumbles) propellants, if some of the products that chamber are beneficial for inhibiting, heat transferred to the wall. - [Tim] Right. - So once you get up about, that sort of soot, carbon so it kind of runs away, your cooling problems get worse, very kind of precipitously (mumbles) just 100 PSI is cause your soot away and heat transferred to the wall. So there are other factors that play into what's going on in there. - [Tim] So the coking on can almost aid as like a, as an insulating barrier. - It absolutely does. - [Tim] Really! - It's really effective thermal So all that soot you saw that's great for thermal barrier coating. - By the way, if you haven't I highly recommend it. Tom is literally a having a PhD in mechanical So it's packed full of great knowledge. But back to the Merlin engine with that really dark fuel rich exhaust There's another thing we We can use the gas itself to but there are a few caveats. You obviously noticed that they are just dumping So it doesn't seem like they're cooling with that exhaust gas at all. But if we pop over to the we can see they do something different with their gas generator exhaust. It isn't just simply dumped overboard, instead that turbine exhaust gas is pumped into the nozzle extension that for use in a vacuum. In order to understand we do need to remember As it expands after the throat, the exhaust gets cooler the further down the nozzle you go. So keep this in mind when we think about where we can pump in It has to be far enough down a nozzle where it's both higher pressure than the main combustion exhaust and it also needs to be at a it needs to protect the be insulated by the film cooling as regenerative cooling is Some other engines that did film cooling with their turbine exhaust are the engines on the Saturn V. Both of them, actually, utilized turbine exhaust film cooling to keep the lower portions In the case of the J-2, it still utilized re-gen but the F-1 stops doing because the film cooling was enough to keep the rest of the There's a really fun and distinct thing to notice when the F-1s were running. Notice the bright orange flame at the end of the nozzle. There's this weird dark bit dancing round between the flame and the nozzle exit. That's the turbine Because it's so fuel rich, it takes a moment for it to find oxygen to burn with and ignite. This of course doesn't happen when it eventually will react But what's confusing is we in a closed cycle rocket engine that doesn't have a gas generator and therefore doesn't dump the I mean, check out the Notice there's little dark it's kind of similar to the F-1. That's from the fuel rich film cooling and not gas generator exhaust soot. It's not as prominent, but but you might actually in some other engines, such as the vacuum optimized Merlin engine or Rocket Lab's vacuum Rocket Lab, founder, was talking to me about - You know, most engines, so there's a small amount of film cooling. And in fact, if you look you can look at just about any rocket engine on an upper stage on a, like refracturing middle alloy nozzle, like an (mumbles) nozzle. You can see the dark spots. So you'll notice it's kind of on a nozzle, there's this kind of dark spots that run around the periphery the locations of the injectors And that's where you can, that's where the film cooling is in line with one of those dark spots. - But notice the vacuum optimized Merlin and vacuum optimized Rutherford look a little different than the others. When they're running in space, their nozzle extensions glow bright red. What the heck is going on here? That is just the metal getting really hot and then radiating that Well, this is another viable option, to keep your rocket engine from melting. (rocket engine roaring) Don't forget, there's a difference between radiative heat transfer and conductive or Since there's no atmosphere in space, there isn't any air to pick up and conduct or convect the heat. So it's not like you can just to keep it cool and expect The only option here is Unlike convection or conduction, radiation doesn't need just like how the sun transfers heat through the vacuum of space via radiation. The nozzle extension in and Rutherford are made Usually some alloys, or some other material that Now, the problem with say is it's very thin and relatively fragile, but even more problematic is how reactive niobium is to oxygen. This means engines with niobium can really only operate in a vacuum. And it also means their manufacturing is much more difficult. Another famous engine that was the AJ10 on the Apollo service module. That dark part is niobium. And it's a good thing that otherwise it could have left orbiting the moon. Okay, I think that pretty much does it. I'm sure there's some other fun tricks, propulsion engineers employ, but that's really the main ones. And it's really fun to which systems work best for their engines. But I think to review this topic best, let's just look at the vacuum because it employs almost At the gas generator, we and a very fuel rich exhaust employed. This makes sense because can't be utilized on spinning turbines. You just have to use high the exhaust temperatures to than those metals can handle. SpaceX uses regenerative cooling for the chamber walls, of the nozzle. Then inside the engine, they employ some film in the chamber and near the throat. They also use film cooling at the nozzle extension when the regenerative But in addition to the film cooling, the nozzle extension also by using a thin, but high The only form of cooling doesn't appear to use is ablative cooling. But considering the upper this is one engine that with a little ablative cooling I love all these little have figured out to keep It blows my mind that re-gen And also that you can use to film cool your nozzle both of those things and it's amazing that they work so well. Let me know if you have any let me know if you learned or if you have ideas for upcoming videos in the comments below. I owe a huge thank you to my make videos like this possible. If you want to help me head on over to where you'll gain access to some exclusive live streams and even early access Again, that's And while you're online, be sure and head over to our web store for shirts like this, the that if you watch the you know this is one this is now one of my favorite shirts. But be sure and check out some such as our space shuttle ejection hoodie, our brand new RS-25 shirt of our future martial shirt, lots of really cool stuff over at everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks everybody. That's gonna do it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the everyday astronaut, bringing space down to (upbeat music)