[Console typing] [Epic action music] [Epic action music] [Music fades] Let's hope this works. [Beep beep] 5 minutes. Activating device. Beginning connection... now. [TV Static] Hey! You there? Were you asleep? Yeah man, it's really early. It's almost 9. Yeah... well... I mean... I kind- Look, I don't need your judgment, I finished the SDA video. Oh my god! I forgot about [Scoffs] Wait, was that a VHS tape?! Yeah people don't really You would. Look, that's not the point, okay? I need you to upload that video. Yeah, about that... umm... Just after I told you that you could make it suddenly became really uncool to upload But I'm you, just from the future. Naw, because you know things I don't, so, you're basically a different person. Yeah, I'd rather not risk it. So I did all that work for nothing?! Well, there might be a way around Like how long?! Eh, you can never really know with these things. No, no, wait! [Intro music] That ought to cover it, right? So here's the deal. I'm just gonna I think the Seventh-day Adventists are anti-government conspiracy theories Because of their beliefs, they seem more willing than others to think that the Whether it's through the legal Don't get me wrong, there are millions Not all of them are Adventists I'm not trying to say that they're the But I do think that SDA theology is and actively teaches people to look Which is a skill that lends Now, if I were to ask you conspiracy theorist from the last [Elevator music] [Ding] It's Alex Jones, right? He's not an Adventist, It was after Waco in 1993. At 19 years old, he began a public access show that looked and sounded exactly And, um, we didn't play all the cuts Lehrer NewsHour but it says, are being used for surveillance of the public by sheriff's departments and police For all the Zoomers in the audience, there was a compound just outside of Waco, Texas that was owned by David Koresh and his In 1993, the federal government which resulted in a several-week long siege, and we just refer to that whole event as "Waco." So if that's what sparked this current wave who were the Branch Davidians? Their full, proper name was the Branch A breakaway of a breakaway movement started by William Miller in the 1840s. For those of you who are behind Okay well, you were right, it all goes I need you to make this video again, but Nope. Whoa whoa wait! So I guess right off the bat, I have to point out Which is itself a breakaway from another religion but I really don't want to Many of the other Protestant consider the SDA to be Christian. Instead, they're usually lumped in with what are collectively referred to The Mormons, the Jehovah's Witnesses, the In this case, they're using the in that they follow a single charismatic leader Not that it checks however I personally don't consider them all to be cults. But if you watch those videos, you'll see that With this project, I've now covered all The Seventh-day Adventists have and they are, in my opinion, By either definition. Adventist beliefs are pretty much with a few quirks here and there, like If you consider how similar the the Adventists really aren't that different And when I tell you who convinced the Adventists that difference will become even smaller. Don't worry, if you don't know Methodists different, I'll tell you that too. The one undeniable thing that separates the is that they believe in a But I'll be making the case for why You knew what you were in for an almost irresponsibly long deep dive into the And that is what you're going to get. But since Adventists' beliefs are not that far off from traditional churches like this video is, by extension, a I can't really explain how a I don't compare and contrast it to So I hope you're ready to do some learning. Let's start at the beginning William Miller was born in 1782 and was a He was a Deist. So he believed but they didn't bother themselves During the Battle of Plattsburg, a shell killing one and injuring several others. He was left completely unscathed which, He started attending a Baptist church, which is Then he began a two-year intensive study of the Bible looking for clues as Turns out, doomerism isn't There were things happening around the believed were signs of the end times. The 1755 earthquake in Lisbon was a popular one. Many linked it to the great earthquake which happens after the sixth seal When one of Napoleon's generals captured many connected it to the fall of Babylon Pretty much every Protestant at the time - and many still today - viewed and the Catholic Church as the evil Babylon being Rome and any time they're talking about a I'm not sure how that woman-church but it's one of those accepted Babylon means Rome and woman Miller began his study with the belief So if there's a parable or prophecy you shouldn't need to go to some outside source. You'll find the answers elsewhere in the Bible. To do that, Miller used Cruden's Concordance, which was a sort of index or glossary If you're trying to find more information about the sanctuary in Revelation, find out where else that word appears, and Normally we'd call this syncretism, which is when For example, one might casually mention going to a sanctuary while the other takes So you assume they're talking Miller paid particular attention to Daniel 8:14, which is now the most important The sanctuary in Revelation was always understood Miller took the prophetic timeline and applied it to the earthly sanctuary With that in mind, we can rephrase the After 2300 days, the Earth will be cleansed. But this is a biblical prophecy, Day means year; it is known. 2300 years from when? From the 457 BC in Jerusalem should be rebuilt. Because temple also means sanctuary; it is known. So, negative 457 plus 2300 gives you 1843. The Earth will be cleansed and Christ will He didn't want to nail down the word "about" was being used intentionally. To back up that number, the Jerusalem decree also There are seven days in a week, over seven weeks, and that gives you 490 days - or rather, years. So negative 457 plus 490, and you get So obviously the 2300 days from the previous chapter of Daniel will mark the I would've made a ridiculous conspiracy but I already used this plot device For what it's worth, a follower of Miller board explaining the 1843 calculation. Connecting all sorts of worldly Here's the French Pope thing from 1798. But I mean, there isn't any It's not even clear where you're It's definitely not the top I really can't figure this one out. I'm sorry, but if I were grading And that'd just be out of pity. They clearly put time into this but like... Wow. Miller came up with his prediction in 1818, but sat on it for fear of The story goes that he made a pact with God that he would tell the world about and then he received a request on that same day. Within a few years, he was ordained as a Baptist preacher and spread his message converting over 6000 Baptists, Methodists, Miller wasn't starting a at this point, just a movement. So, you could still be a Baptist It was an add-on to your main One important convert was Joshua V Himes, who heard Miller speak in November 1839 He then invited Miller to preach his Himes was himself a pastor and a Yes, spelled with an X. They were a cross-denominational Christian the earthly millennium through social reform. The prevailing understanding at the and maintain a perfect which would trigger Christ's Second Sylvester Graham and the early vegetarian and abstinence from sex would But Miller, and now Himes, which is that only Christ His return would mark the when he will reign on Earth for a thousand years. Himes became Miller's top promoter and He's the one who made that chart. And in February 1840, he began publishing a paper Traveling circuses had just become a thing, so Himes came up with the idea of using those same Kind of like a pop-up cathedral. It was such a new idea that people came to in a giant tent that could hold over 4000 people. By October 1844, they held or "camp meetings," and over half a million people There were only 17 million this was like the Eras Tour of the As his message spread, several of the other key ministers from the Christian and contributed their own ideas George Storrs, a Methodist minister, introduced the idea of conditional immortality. Stating that human beings do Everlasting life can only Those who reject Christ do not go to They simply cease to exist, which is They aren't punished forever, It's a subtle difference, but an important one. To be fair, that is the most But it goes against what believe and our everyday language would suggest. When someone dies, we usually place" or that they're "smiling Implying that they are up in Heaven somewhere. Only when they're an exceptionally awful person Hell itself is unscriptural. When Jesus was asked where he pointed to a burning trash pit named Gehenna. I hope he wasn't standing too close, that shit will mess you up. Get on the registry, Jesus. The point being that they're consumed by fire - or annihilated - rather than But even more than that, what would be the point if everyone is already where According to Storrs, everyone who has ever died is currently in soul sleep. he will execute his judgment by The unworthy will simply poof out of existence. If you are sentenced to annihilation, you won't be told about it and God issued commandments, not a Bill of Rights. In addition to that, Josiah introduced the idea of the Basically, there will be a bench trial You'll be tried in absentia Christ will be your advocate, Which is some real Jim Crow Unfortunately, this also meant that your trial and the Second Coming and So you need to be in good standing As I mentioned earlier, Miller was reluctant to But as the year 1843 began, he caved to the In February, a month before the Great Comet of 1843 appeared in the sky. Many saw it as a biblical comets can only mean one The comet hung around for a month, spring who were now calling themselves went into overdrive when it They started in their home services to preach about Miller's prediction. The churches were none too happy about that and eventually disfellowshipped In July 1843, Charles Fitch, a Congregationalist, argued that the Babylon mentioned in but also included any Protestants who So it was good that you were kicked out, actually. Fitch was calling for Adventists to completely separate themselves from so they could devote themselves to movement. In the following months, Again, crazy numbers for the 1800s. This persecution was foretold in Revelation, which Whenever something bad they turn to the Bible and discover that it Thanks to that prophetic reinforcement, the Millerites were even more and began to sell their homes and businesses They resigned from their jobs, gave away and didn't harvest their crops. They had no doubt that the world was going to end, so they saw no need to plan for the future. Now, I always hate when people do but it's important to the story and The world did not end. March 21, 1844 came and went and nothing happened. You hear how dumb that This date became known as the Little Which, right away, implies that this Pretend you don't know that It's supposed to be a surprise. William Miller and the believers in the were at a complete loss as to why Joshua Himes printed a public which had been renamed to the Advent Herald. Believing that Christ would Himes cited Habakkuk 2:3 and Jesus is the bridegroom in this verse, which means the bride is the church. Pretty much every Christian denomination from the Catholics to the Adventists believe So, while the bridegroom tarried, everyone was just supposed to just wait patiently. The Adventists call this To tarry means to delay So, the Second Coming had to be Jesus hasn't put his shoes on yet! I sold my house to pay for this trip, and now everyone's going to be late But in late August, a guy named stated that since Jesus died in you know what? Now the Bible shows us that The Day of Atonement comes in autumn. And what did the high priest He cleansed the sanctuary. Does it not then follow that sanctuary on that precise Day of Atonement? Yes. This is from a movie called Tell the World, produced by the Australian The only reason I mention who up a joke that won't pay off for another hour. But I also think it's important to For example, they completely skip They go from Miller making his "about the with nothing happening in between. I'll explain why later, but The Day of Atonement landed on the tenth day which Snow determined to be on October 22, 1844. Since it was the seventh and it just so happened to be seven this became known as the Seventh Month movement Why am I not surprised that someone someone else's work, add the bare minimum, and then have that version become Seems to be a pattern. As we just saw, Adventists give Snow all of the credit for thinking that But Miller made that same writing that he expected Jesus to So Snow took his idea and was just like, "I dunno, maybe that'll happen in 1844?" And since he was cuter or something, Miller himself was skeptical of Snow's prediction, but as the date approached and Storrs were telling him it's definitely true, he again caved to the pressure. Joshua Himes was so convinced that he made this announcement in Now, you would expect that a paper heralding the Second Advent would announce and thus the paper will not continue. But, he didn't make a similar statement The March 20th edition barely mentioned what So many people were convinced that when it came and went and nothing happened, it became known as the Great Disappointment. See, it doesn't quite hit the The Adventists were in complete shock. Many of them stayed up all night And as you might expect, the next morning, In the aftermath of the Great Disappointment, there were four ways to interpret The first, most obvious interpretation was The majority of Second Adventists took that A few of them renounced their faith entirely. Many fell into depression, or "deep Some of them committed suicide, while including SS Snow. According to the Association of Institutions for the Insane, half of all their religious cases that year Miller himself continued to believe that the Miller and Himes helped establish six months after the Great Disappointment. The conference evolved into the which continues to exist today They still believe we are near the end, but they aren't looking forward Others who still held onto the Advent for other prophecies that might explain the delay. Eventually revising the prediction to 1874, then 1878, 1881, 1914, 1925, 1975, and then back to 1914. Those people became the Jehovah's Witnesses. My video about them went into they now use a different prophecy and base it on the year the temple in Jerusalem While the Witnesses believe that Miller but incorrect about the date, the final group believed the opposite. Miller had the correct date, but was On October 23, 1844, the morning a Methodist Adventist named Hiram Edson was walking through a field when he and experienced a vision In Revelation 10, an angel which tastes sweet as honey but sours the stomach. This was an obvious metaphor since everyone ate it up and But then the angel commands Just like his vision! What a coincidence! Hiram incorporated the Great Disappointment That failed prediction was the "little scroll" which was foretold as a necessary It was supposed to happen. See what I mean? After an intense Bible study Hiram came to the conclusion that the sanctuary like Miller and every other Christian And what if we mistook the But the sanctuary is the Earth. Is it? Word of his prophetic vision and and those that subscribed to his understanding All three of these religions hinge on the 1844 prediction has some sort If it doesn't, then the entire The SDA talks about William gifted or perhaps even guided by the Holy Spirit. They frame his calculation as if it happened If each of Daniel's days is one year, and then the 2300 days will be 2300 and the time period begins at 457 BC, as indicated in Daniel 9, then that brings us to... 1843. Events around the world had convinced William Miller was just one of dozens, if not Between 1800 and 1844, at least 65 of and said Christ would return When Miller started telling people about his he was actually one of the last to do so. It's impossible that he didn't hear Which is why- Um, actually, he came up with When he finally spoke up, people had heard about So the church's story that the people weren't ready for his message or that Miller But while he certainly wasn't the first he was definitely the most At least three churches were all of which argue over what happened on that day. So it would be really awkward if That's William Miller himself was wrong almost two years after the fact. It's important to point out that His prediction came from biblical You'll also note that he blames historians, implying that they got the incorrect and that's why his prediction failed. But looking at Daniel 8, there's suggest that rebuilding the temple That's why the 65 other people using this When Miller said "and the time period he was talking about the 70 weeks prophecy That wasn't an original idea either. The first person to think of using Daniel 8 and 9 to reinforce each other was a German He thought the world would end in 1847. The thing is, I don't need to use prove to you that Miller's prediction was wrong. I just need a calculator. And honestly, I don't even need that. Here's his math from that -457 for Artaxerxes' decree +2300 So Christ will return sometime plus the seven months from SS Snow Wrong, actually. The year zero didn't happen. So he should have added one more So, March 1844 to March 1845, plus Even if everything he interpreted about this is the date he should have As important as Daniel's 2300 Days He made the same error when so even his confirmation check was wrong. For what it's worth, the Jehovah's Witnesses didn't notice and fix that error in So if any other church is still pointing they should know that Miller made an elementary school math error, October 22, 1844 is the most significant and their explanation for what Returning to Hiram's vision on the morning after... So rather than returning to like every Millerite had previously believed, Jesus moved from the first to the second apartment, the Most Holy. Which is where the Ark of the Covenant is kept. The heavenly sanctuary has two apartments because Jewish temples at the time of Christ also Only the high priests were Though, according to Matthew 27:51, Jesus' death was supposed to have torn The point is, it's that second apartment of the heavenly sanctuary that began Jewish high priests had a two-phase ministry: the Daily, focused on forgiveness, and the Yearly, focused on cleansing and judgment. So it stands to reason that Jesus' According to Hiram's vision, Jesus had From forgiving to judging. So, a man named Joseph Bates connected that to the Pre-Advent Investigative Judgment The thing that was supposed to be to the Great Disappointment now began on that day. Jesus is currently performing the by reviewing his records in He began with the very first humans and Two months after Hiram, in December 1844, Ellen Harmon was in a prayer circle with some I was in prayer at the house I lost consciousness and I felt The Advent people were traveling on a Ellen Harmon and her twin sister Elizabeth were where her family belonged to a Methodist church. When Ellen was 9 years old, a classmate causing severe head trauma and putting She was left scarred and battled never went back to school, In 1839, her family heard William Miller's Just like tens of thousands of other followers, they waited on October 22 Ellen was 17 years old at the time of her first vision and was seen as a But a few months earlier, a man named God would give the gift of prophecy Which obviously meant Ellen. Ellen became somewhat of an overnight Including a prediction that Christ would return William Miller and Joshua Himes The Albany Conference officially stated visions, dreams, tongues, miracles, But others, like Joseph Bates and James James White was a pastor in was converted to Millerism When he first met Ellen Harmon, he Then on August 30, 1846, James How romantic. In the two years after the Disappointment, they had been traveling together to various The fact that she could commune with Ellen White being held up as a prophet by why many other Protestant denominations view The reason I don't really think that On March 16, 1844, just before a former Seventh-day Baptist named Rachel Oakes convinced her preacher to rather than observing the The Methodist Adventist switched to Saturday services and his church became the first Sabbath In February 1845, Thomas Showing That the Seventh Day Instead of the First Day; That's not a description of the Joseph Bates read Preble's work He soon converted James and Ellen White the Sabbatarian Adventists, Ellen White had a vision on April 3, 1847, where Jesus showed her the The tablet with the first four and the fourth commandment in Here it is for you heathens Since the Sabbatarian leaders had already accepted that Saturday was the Ellen's vision basically just And indeed, modern scholars will say rather than initiation when it Without the visions, the Adventists came just like all of the other The Methodists believe that while the Baptists think baptism should wait until Both of them cite the Bible as That's the difference, by the way. But since the Adventists studied and were then shown the answer via Really? Joseph Bates connected Sabbath keeping to the "Here are they that keep the commandments Since the Sabbatarians now they were the only church truly The Sabbath became the seal of the prophesied If the Pope is the Antichrist and the Bates made Sunday keeping the mark of the beast. Which begs the question: why was Well you see, Judaism observed the Damnit, I said I didn't wanna When Christianity first began, But when the Roman Empire started the Christian Jews wanted to rest of the faith by going to church on Sunday. Since that was the day Jesus rose from the dead. When Revelation was written in 95 AD, Sunday was already the day Bates, and modern Adventists, think that Sunday was chosen as the when it became the official religion The Pope didn't come up with Sunday was the appropriate only Jewish people observed Saturday. Over the centuries, the various rules were also applied to the Lord's Day. By the 1200s, Saint Thomas Aquinas stated that A few centuries later, Martin Luther said the During the Protestant Reformation, when some came to the conclusion that The Seventh-day Baptists were Fast forward 200 years to Rachel Oakes congregations switching to Saturday, Contrary to popular understanding and the the Sabbath is not Saturday, but rather Friday evening to Saturday evening. So naturally, the Sabbatarians had to Joseph Bates believed that the Sabbath like JN Andrews, thought it should be sunset. This is one of many theological arguments It sounds a lot like trying to figure out whether Like, is that what we're arguing Apparently it does, because in November 1855, Ellen had a vision confirming that the Ellen herself thought it should be 6pm, so it turned out she was wrong and Why didn't God just give her the answer Phrases like "gifts of the Spirit" or the "Spirit We're going to see all kinds of variations of this Whenever you see this, it's Ellen. Anyway, this is the basis for the modern argument God will not teach his people the studied the Bible and argued amongst Only then will they be told of the week is supposed to start and end. Now, most Christians will tell you he fulfilled the Old Covenant which After all, when he died, he said "it is finished." While people still shouldn't things like the Sabbath - or what But the Sabbatarians and later SDA didn't Jesus is finishing that right now by So we are currently under both Revelation 14:12 says that the faithful remnant consists of those who keep the You need both. Which is why the SDA often Switching to Saturday was a tough sell for a The Sabbatarians didn't want new converts, they just wanted those who already believed. Citing Matthew 25:10, many of them, October 22, 1844 was the last day He was done forgiving and was now judging. The way was shut. It was and the dead keep it. The dead being Jesus. Another thing to bring up, any "I saw," it's in reference to a prophetic vision. Something that God deliberately communicated So if you weren't a Millerite on that day, the Sabbatarians considered if you were a follower of Miller and you could still be saved. Because of that, the Sabbatarians were In April 1848, the Sabbatarians held their first conference in Connecticut to come to As usual, whenever there was a disagreement, Ellen would fall into a vision Whenever Ellen spoke about a vision, she would say that it came from her But that still counts as "divine inspiration," At this point there were only 200 Sabbatarians, so during the third conference, Ellen had a vision directing her to spread the word to the scattered Millerites. Present Truth was first published in sharing his own theological The first one I want to talk about is the Trinity, which James thought was unscriptural. Only God is eternal, Jesus was created later, and the Holy Spirit is nothing more So at the start, the Sabbatarians They'd eventually revisit that doctrine with the funniest loophole explanation I've Citing Joel 2:28, James made his Basically, it states that gifts of prophecy and since Ellen White was a she became a key piece of not just James then wove the Sabbatarians particularly when it comes to the Three The first angel proclaims that which he equated to the The second angel declares that Babylon has fallen, which was symbolized by the Adventists being The third angel is the warning people not to accept the was going to church on Sunday. So, fittingly, the modern SDA also refers There are a lot of names to keep up with, I know. The Seventh-day Adventists, the Sabbatarians, the Believers in the Advent Near, the People of the Shut Door, the Third Angel's message, the Remnant Church. You'll be fine as long as you pay attention. By November 1850, there were 2000 Sabbatarians, and Present Truth was combined with and renamed to the Second Advent often just referred to as the "Review and Herald." The Sabbatarians had been predicting the end but since their movement was so small, Now that they had a decently-sized one date seemed to loom large over the Joseph Bates interpreted the seven sprinkles of blood needed to cleanse to mean that Christ's heavenly Putting the new date for On July 21, 1851, a few months Ellen White stated in the Review and Herald that their movement should stop Just to remind you, she's not talking God told her this. To this day, the Seventh-day Adventists do not have an end date for Christ's heavenly You'll recall that this is also what William Miller and the Advent Christians These two churches believe the same thing, they just came to their Modern Adventists are not told about these failed predictions for the same reason the movie Everything has to be about October 22, 1844. It's the only date the Millerites were looking forward to and it's the only The movie ignores all of the date setting and portrays "soon" as the Maybe we were wrong about what was So, Jesus is still coming back soon then. We just don't know how quickly? Exactly. So if the world wasn't expected to end any time soon and the door to heaven how was the movement supposed to continue? "Hey, join us in looking forward may or may not happen during you won't be getting into heaven because you Not exactly the best recruitment strategy, right? And what about all of the people who were now members of the movement too? What about their children? Recognizing these issues, in February while Jesus closed the door to the holy, and that should be their focus. So the door had been at least partially opened for without having been Millerites themselves. The door is shut, but as long as you know With that, James and Ellen White began which just meant a formal organization. There were no official clergy, a Sabbatarian minister and They initially solved that by ministers in the Review and Herald, but by 1853, they were issuing signed ID cards to them as well. Before long, James White and Joseph Bates were Ellen White was never officially ordained, but she was listed as a minister To this day, no woman has ever been ordained The printing press, publishing house, and most of the other property donated to Which were huge burdens that I imagine he had to pay taxes on all that. So in the fall of 1860, a general conference of and perhaps create some sort of church structure. The problem was that early Millerites argued that any church would become Babylon which was why Millerism was Many Sabbatarians still held onto that belief. So JN Andrews suggested that rather they could form a legal association to This is another recurring They need to do a thing, but so someone grabs a thesaurus and calls to get around the fact that they're The conference adopted that proposal, but before the Sabbatarians they had to come up with a name for it. We cannot incorporate our publishing For some reason, modern Adventists make this process sound much more As if choosing a name in itself was Babylon. We have been called the people of the shut door because we believe that the door and the door to the Most Holy Place Should that be part of our name? Perhaps we should look to our two pillars of faith What do we say to being called This reminds me of that scene in Lord of of himself for coming up with You shall be the Fellowship of the Ring. Remember, the Millerites were and the Sabbatarians switched to Saturday So calling themselves the Seventh-day Through Ellen, God approved and they incorporated the Seventh-day Adventist Publishing Association in the Oh yeah, I forgot to mention that the Michigan in 1855 after being But you already knew that because While the budding SDA were dipping they also realized that they Many of the ministers in seeing it as a form of "creedal rigidity." Since people were still receiving visions it would be silly to lock So rather than a creed or a list Church covenant. That's it, that's the entire covenant. The only two things they wrote down were that they Again referencing the remnant You also probably noticed that they because at this point, the writing was Both the covenant and the created a few months after the beginning As the war picked up steam, rumors were floating and the Adventists were worried about what that Here's James White's opinion on the matter. So according to James, if you're drafted and the government is the one breaking Not you. Your conscience is clear. There are modern translations of that commandment as being against murder. But back then, pretty much everyone Thou shalt not kill. So that was their concern. On the flip side, James stated that if you refuse and if you allow that to happen, you Which is also against the law of God. Now, I don't know about the rest of you, but I feel like killing someone else is way worse than letting myself be I don't know, maybe I'm weird. Lincoln signed the Enrollment beginning the Civil War draft for every Two months later, on May 21, 1863, the Seventh-day Adventists You see, there was a conscientious but you had to be a member of a recognized The SDA incorporated just in time Conscientious objectors were allowed and the SDA encouraged its members In fact, they still do. I'm sure at least a few of you have been the WW2 veteran who earned a Medal of Honor for They made a movie about him. Though they make it seem like the Army and manufactured a bunch of drama about him getting court-martialed for The defendant's rights as a conscientious objector are protected by an Act of Congress and he I'm sure his fellow soldiers but the military was well acquainted with the In any case, in 1863, the Seventh-day Adventists had "instituted Gospel Order" and They had 3500 members, 30 ministers, Yes, you heard me correctly. Missionaries. The SDA, then and now, believe It is their job to announce the end of the Jesus will only return once every So the church sent missionaries to preach California and the western Plains. Look, they were on a budget, okay? When a Polish convert to Adventism permission to bring his new she denied his request. After years of trying, Czechowski gave up and was able to convince them to While he there, he preached the SDA message in In 1867, he established an Adventist the first one outside of North America. The SDA were completely unaware of any of this. So when a Swiss man showed up to they were beyond confused. They taught him English, ordained him as a It took them until 1874 to send JN missionary to continue what Czechowski started You may be asking yourself how or why when the door was shut to anyone without And the answer is that no it wasn't, actually. See? She just thought that the door It's not like God had shown Oh whatever, she said that like twenty years ago. Present truth is just that: It's always evolving with newer light. The door was always open. It is known. At this point, Ellen's visions were no longer bringing new light to her followers. On March 14, 1858, she had a very public, 2 hour long vision which she later published as: The Great Controversy between Christ Her eyes were wide open and she James even invited people on stage to Here is an eyewitness account of that event. There are no physical tests in the Bible, I'm not even sure what that was supposed to mean. But, remember this. It becomes important later. The Great Controversy vision was how Adam and Eve were tempted, and how Satan was a repentant angel He discovered God's newest creation, man, and Heaven was unprepared for their corruption, but thankfully Jesus came up with None of that was in the Bible, So when it was published in September 1858, the Adventists regarded it Ellen had another very important visit from which the SDA now refers to as From that point on, Adventists were No alcohol, tobacco, tea, Snacking and rich desserts All meat was bad, but especially swine. For the longest time, Adventists made up the In addition to that, they were get plenty of sunshine and fresh air, exercise regularly, and bathe daily. If that all sounds familiar, it's These ideas were not unique around for several decades before Ellen's vision. Ellen White had four children. Henry, Edson, Willie, and John Herbert. John Herbert died after only two months. In January 1863, all three of her which is a bacterial infection It's preventable with a vaccine and But they didn't have either of those yet. Back in the day, your only treatment options Ellen typically relied on the latter, which But this time, she read an article in the amounts of water to draw out the illness and She tried that, and it worked. Who wrote that life-saving article? James Caleb Jackson, another He was a major player in the vegetarian movement New York named Our Home on the Hillside. People at the time pointed out that many of her suggestions sounded a lot and she dismissed them with the chef's kiss of convenience excuses. She's using third person here, which she does from time to time and if this is the way God wants us to live, it makes Clever, right? So her kids got diphtheria in January 1863 and she read an article about the water cure Six months later, she had the Now, I need to read an excerpt from one because it's simply too funny. This comes from A Brief History of the Seventh-day Adventists by church Ellen White's June 5, 1863 vision placed Unfortunately, it was easier to read about As a result, an overworked and intemperate General suffered a paralytic stroke on August 16, 1865. His wife decided to take James for treatment So a "president by the name of and "his wife" took him to At this point in the book, James White has been His wife was Ellen White. Ellen White took Why would the author want to Ellen White and James White's unnamed Because six months later, on December 25, 1865, Ellen had a vision telling her she and George Knight didn't want you to The Western Health Reform Institute opened less than a year after Ellen's Just like Jackson's Our Home, it focused on the which was basically just bread and water. The Institute wasn't all that Since Adventists thought the end was near, they didn't really see much point The church had tried to set up schools and failed. They had one in upstate New York before the move Both closed after only a few years. There just weren't enough students. But in 1867, there was The Whites sent their youngest two John Harvey and Will Keith John Harvey Kellogg. Edson White. Okay so, in the context of this movie, that was supposed to be an epic name drop of people that Adventists know will become Kind of like what they did with But there are a few things about that scene that don't make sense and I need to Right off the bat, this wasn't the first school. They opened one in New York in 1853, then one in Battle Creek in 1856, and then the one I just told you Much like a modern charter school, they just couldn't seem to keep them going In June 1872, the General Conference decided to which was more or less permanent and Today, the Adventists operate over 50 vocational training centers, and 110 So that's the one they decided to But then they took that 1867 student Which really screws with the timeline. In reality, John Harvey was 20 years old in 1872 and attending Robert Trall's He's seated next to his younger brother William, who was 12 years old and appears to Edson White is the most out of place. He was 23, married, and attending the This is one of the last scenes in Tell the World. It ends 4 minutes later with them sending JN They're sending Brother Andrews [Cheers] He will spread the good news of And beyond that, we must tell the world. Roll credits! No literally, roll the credits. [Tape winding] The movie clocks in at 2 hours and 34 minutes and covers the Adventist story from William A few of the reviews on IMDB specifically Breaking in with a recent development. I filmed all of this back in March and April. On April 17, 2024, the SDA telling the story of William Miller This movie is only an hour and The Advent people were traveling on Yeah, so the director took Tell the World, cut out an hour of the stuff people and then released that as a completely I didn't even know you could do that. Despite the movie ending when their health, Ellen White continued to have visions We've barely crossed the halfway Or this video. Be on the look-out for the director's After the school system was established, Ellen wrote that one of its many Men like John Harvey Kellogg, who graduated from and was appointed as the general administrator of the Western Health Reform He immediately changed the name and got up to all kinds of crazy hijinks But you've already heard that story. Ellen White was a prolific writer, much like Spiritual Gifts, with four which had five volumes by the 1880s, All of Ellen's writings are Some people break them down but for our purposes, they're all Testimonies. The church held that both the Bible and but were not infallible. The writers were describing they weren't copying down his exact words. The Bible being written by inspired men and not the word of God himself kind of calls but we'll leave that alone. Ellen also described her own work as inspired. The important part here is God showed her things and then she described them. She wasn't directly speaking for God, even though many of her followers On August 6, 1881, James White died Joseph Bates had also died there That left Ellen White as the last Less than a year later, she bought declared that everything she had ever written, including personal correspondence, was infallible. She doesn't use the word infallible, but that's clearly what she's communicating. Her Testimonies are not her ideas, they are God's. So denying her work is basically blasphemy. It's safe to say that at this point, Ellen White was in full control of the Adventist message and had placed Older leaders within the movement, like Uriah and expressed frustration that placing too much This whole thing may have started but since nothing visibly happened on that day, the only evidence Adventists have for their It all hinges on her. If she didn't have those visions, then the and their entire theology falls apart. The 1888 General Conference in Minneapolis major changes were made to their beliefs. Two newer ministers, AT Jones instead of focusing on keeping the commandments, Adventists should emphasize their faith in Jesus. Remember, both are essential they're just arguing which The old guard felt that since every Christian the only thing that set the Adventists apart as the true church is their Christians in the audience will recognize this as the salvation by faith versus with following the commandments being the "works." Salvation by faith is sprinkled "for by grace are ye saved through faith; and You are saved by faith and not by your own doing. So if all you need is faith, which then what's the point of all those Most Christian denominations go It's sometimes referred to as salvation by faith The Baptists say that if you have faith, those good deeds will just come naturally to you. Works are a result of salvation, Hard work and following the But the people chosen to get into heaven just That was the position Jones and Waggoner were The debate was so heated that they repeatedly The two sides had thoroughly so they were calling on Ellen to be the divine But she refused. Before the conference began, Ellen was shown that Jones and Waggoner would bring So her mind was already made up The General Conference chose to adopt the which caused several of the older leaders Uriah Smith, for whatever reason, chose to stay. There were several other theological arguments For example, there are two parts to salvation: Justification, which is bestowed and Sanctification, which is the We know that both happen as part of the Or, do they happen at the same time? As you can see, I have a I never quite got over the trauma of showing So now that I'm an adult, I can spend my Look, it even has a sharpener! Forget the gold play button. I mean look at this thing, it has so many colors. Reds, oranges, greens, blues, and all the rest. [Sped up music] Now, I was hoping to set this up teal belongs in the green versus blue debate. Like, once I had them all lined out The color of the paper would Well, it turns out that this mega, every-color-you-could-ever-need They discontinued it back in 2003. How do you discontinue a color?! I kinda wish I knew that before it was worth it just to make up for my childhood. But I can't just leave this up So I went on eBay and used an money to buy a 20-year old discontinued crayon. It arrived in this special box and- Oh! Would you look at that! Teal blue! According to Crayola, the ultimate It is known. Look, I don't care about justification, We have significantly more important Once again, Uriah Smith held firm God is the only eternal being. Jesus Christ is the first And the Holy Spirit is an influence sent by That understanding is known as the Godhead. Only God is eternal, and he created the other two. But Waggoner believed that while he was created so far back in time as God is infinity years old and If you've taken any sort of advanced math class, you know that infinity minus It sounds like it should This is the loophole-trinity I was It's the Godhead, but so long ago that where God went through cellular mitosis all of which are still the original. As AT Jones put it: If you ask an Adventist today, they will They may not even know about the their church came up with The personhood of the Holy Spirit, the third As we just heard, AT Jones believed Smith thought it was just a divine influence. EJ Waggoner preached that the Holy Spirit was This is an interesting take and But in the end, Ellen White the Holy Spirit is a person, the third So here's a related when Christ was born, not created spiritually, Did he possess our sinful Pretty much the entire New Testament is dedicated to telling the story of how He is presented as a divine example of So if he was born perfect and he didn't then what's the point of the book? Ellen White believed that Christ was Therefore, he did not possess the Again, she was trying to have it both ways. AT Jones, on the other hand, argued He had to conquer his fleshly desires and sinful nature to open a consecrated way for The majority of Adventists adopted his view. That said, the human nature of Christ are still hotly debated among Adventists today. Along with another very important question: Was Ellen White actually a prophet? In November 1891, Ellen White the combined faith plus works message That was the pay off. While she was there, she did a lot of rather than focusing on doctrinal Before she left, she expressed concern over the So her elder son James Edson White White Southerners weren't too happy with So he built a ship called the Morning Star and used that as a floating chapel as Three years later, the Adventists established the which later became Oakwood College, It is now a recognized HBCU. Every congregation that they organized remained Because this was turn-of-the-century Ellen White stayed in Australia for ten she convinced the General Conference to adopt At the top, you obviously have At the time this was adopted, but today, it's every five years. Between these quinquennial meetings, control rests in the hands who are elected by the conference The GC is made up of directors and representatives from each of the 13 Divisions. These Divisions are why women still The General Conference has brought the issue While North America and Europe typically other areas of the world keep rejecting it. A few local conferences have ordained women, but they're going against the position of Divisions are made up of The North American Division has 8 of them. The Southern Union Conference, the Pacific, the Mid-American, you get the idea. Union conferences are further divided into Local The Mid-American Union has six of them. Minnesota gets their own conference. While the Dakotas have to share one. Same goes for these other pairs. But that's only five, where's the sixth? It's the separate &quot;colored&quot; conference established known as the Central States Conference. The GC authorized the creation of black the Seventh-day Adventist church continues The religion as a whole is quite racially diverse, they don't have any doctrines regarding It's just an issue here in Anyway, within those local conferences, you have the actual churches where The Executive Committee was solitary position of President. So rather than one or two men being able it was now twenty-five. And at least a quarter of them were When the Battle Creek Sanitarium Ellen White refused to foot She felt Kellogg was asking bring the facility under direct church ownership. Kellogg vowed that he would never let So he went outside of the church and To help fund reconstruction, he also where he expressed similar views as Now, there's obviously some sort whether you want to call that or a biological process is up to you, I guess. But Kellogg said it was the Holy Spirit The idea that the universe is God, he And you know, if everything Curiously, she didn't seem to have this reaction when Waggoner was preaching She only ever accused Ellen White already held a grudge to save her overworked and intemperate husband. But with all this drama concerning their relationship really began to sour. She wrote numerous testimonies denouncing "the Lord is not very well Battle Creek had become the Rome The Sanitarium was staffed and the attached nursing school prepared When Kellogg dissociated the Battle they lost a major source of Everyone knew the Adventists In order to continue arousing others to the SDA were forced to open their Today, they operate over 400 hospitals Despite that as-yet-unknown future success, the Executive Committee voted to disfellowship along with his brother Will Keith. John couldn't have cared less, but because he didn't believe And apparently never did. Hey so, remember that time James White invited all those people to examine his Turns out, several doctors including John Harvey's older This is a letter Merritt wrote to John I'm not sure if he administered the but his diagnosis tracks with the eyewitness She faints. The Australian SDA movie only During every other revelation, she is depicted as semi-lucid, able to speak, and loft heavy bibles over her head. This is the inspired testimony of God. Merritt's theory wasn't new, back in July 1869, Ellen's visions were the result of a diseased What evidence would lead him to that conclusion? At the age of 9, Ellen White was hit in the head by a large rock which put her Did you forget that already? It was like the first thing you learned about her. In addition to that, Ellen White's father she often worked in his factory... Where she was exposed to mercury, which was used to create felt and This substance caused so many hat makers to Where do you think the Mad Hatter Once John Harvey was kicked out of the church, In October 1907, he gave an extensive Now, the back half of that He claimed that people were going to Ellen claimed they were from God, and published them as testimonies. You have no idea how right he was. It's time to reveal to you that this and actually, this is a video about plagiarism! [Intro music] This video is brought to you I went without a traditional sponsor on this video because I wanted to see what I could I was really able to focus on the details Someone suggested that I finish the video and I thought it would be weird to say possible when the truth is that it was my patrons. They're the ones who paid for the voice actors, in addition to paying my rent and buying my food. This video would not have been So thank you, every single one of you. Patrons and YouTube members they saw this one a month before everyone else. They also get access to the You can also get access by where I've started doing coworking You could have watched me write, All of these people keep the channel to focus on quality rather than quantity. If you'd like to support the channel as Alright now back to the plagiarism. Recall that Hazen Foss had been told gift of prophecy to "the weakest of the weak." Foss received numerous visions throughout 1844. In September, a month before he saw Jesus leading the Advent Ellen White knew who Hazen Foss was, But after the Disappointment, he decided he no longer wanted to be When Ellen just so happened to have he urged her to accept her position as a prophet. She was obviously the weakest of So, right away, Ellen's first angel was a rerun of someone else's vision, which she'd already heard about. It's either that, or she had a to recall a memory of Foss I guess we'll never really know for sure. Fast forward to March 14, 1858, when Ellen Did any of you feel like you had already heard and his angels and Satan and his angels? Because I sure did. And so did JN Andrews, who immediately asked to which she said, "No." Sure enough, when the Great Controversy it contained details that weren't present in her original vision and could've In 1957, Elizabeth Burgeson published Burgeson might not know the answer I mean, it's either that or plagiarism, right? Again, who can say? But taking someone's 200 year old ideas to retell them in your own voice is Milton's work was definitely It's not like she was taking extracts from and passing them off as a vision. That would be pretty hard to defend. As Kellogg pointed out, Ellen White took at least 14 pages from and adapted them for her book She even included his historical inaccuracies, just like a college student trying Here's Willie C White describing The authorities in question there who both had their work incorporated into Entire pages were used without This wasn't limited to ministers, she'd even steal from her copyists. Here's a letter from Fanny Bolton In 1909, after John Harvey authors began to notice their work being copied, Ellen White told her copyists that from now on, any works she quotes or borrows The only book to ever receive that treatment which contained 400 cited Those were just the ones they remembered to add, a later analysis revealed Church leaders were well aware that this problem It was pervasive throughout One of them was William W. Prescott, who had his work borrowed for In April 1915, he wrote a letter to Willie his plagiarized words were being Prescott was the head of education for the Her son Willie knew. Kellogg knew. It's safe to say that all of the church but were happy to go on letting Here's a quote from the President few years earlier, describing her as infallible. So when Ellen White died on the church had to decide once and for all Was she a prophet and "the only infallible interpreter of the Bible?" Was she just another minister? A plagiarist? Or was all of this the result of The 1919 Bible Conference was called Though I doubt they seriously Prescott again expressed his concern church venerating Ellen's work and what that meant in the Arthur G Daniells, the President argued that the Spirit of and gave some pretty This is him saying that watching Ellen write and repeatedly edit one of her divine But seeing the plagiarism Even the President of the GC was fooled by Which remains the case for They don't know that the Testimonies sent to At the end of the 1919 Bible Conference, the status quo was maintained. Ellen White's Testimonies remained as and Adventists continued to hold The Executive Committee knew that if they would lose their faith. So the notes and minutes from We would have had no idea at the time if not for the research of Walter Rea. Rea was a Seventh-day Adventist who began making compilations of Ellen White's Eventually, he started to notice He wrote to the General Conference and they put him to the task of looking Presumably expecting him not to find any. But he super did. In January 1980, he presented his which was created specifically for this reason. Here's a quote from one of the attendees. The historical fact he was pointing out was When someone discovers the they become disillusioned and leave. It'd be one thing if it was a regular minister. But when it's the infallible it's somewhat more difficult to justify. An editorial appeared in the later informing the general in the most watered down way possible. Her "use of sources?" She copied whole pages! It was obvious to anyone who looked that Fred Veltman didn't need two years, he Remember what I said about phrases It was meant to communicate that Ellen Walter Rea discovered that Ellen add "I was shown" to the and then pass that off as a vision from God. Rea's evidence was so potentially damaging to the faith that the leadership did the Seriously, take a moment and think of the [Elevator music] [Ding] That's right, they swept the whole thing under We've all seen this story before, In 1982, Walter Rea went public Because, obviously. I'm not sure This is an hbomberguy-level expose of Ellen And he did all of this before you could just use Now, I know what you want. And that's fair, there are In fact, I've already shown you a couple. Remember this quote about why the While that should sound familiar, that That was the original, from the March This is from Ellen's 1903 book titled Education. This is the level of "Men who are not for sale" became "men who will not be bought or sold." She kept but turned it into one long run-on sentence Here's the introduction chapter of John Can you find Ellen's 1901 quote about people [Elevator music] [Ding] Time's up. Ellen White took his short list of essay titles and turned it into a sentence about what But I'll do you one even better. So far we've only talked about stuff While doing missionary work she wrote this diary entry on May 15, 1887. Really weird that I would get a Yes, even her diary entries are plagiarized! That was from James A Wylie's The same guy she stole from What happened to "the words I employ in This is a journal, not a vision. What do you even gain by doing that? She believed that her personal diaries were a They were divinely inspired works of God, without one heretical sentence, to She had convinced herself and her followers that she was a prophet whose life And she was obviously correct in that regard. Perhaps because she was a cataleptic she felt she had to plagiarize others' words Or perhaps Walter Rea, who was correct with his conclusion that I still accidentally said There's something about the lighting in this room, the way I printed, uh, this on a piece of paper, and just the size of the text, or something, it's making my eyes scan it wrong. I don't know what's going Again, most Adventists, then and Following the 1919 Bible Conference, they continued to believe Ellen or at the very least, divinely inspired. That became a problem for the Like many other Third Great Awakening religions, they wanted to be recognized as rather than one of the "four major cults." To do that, they needed to ditch some The first major change came in 1929, when the Bible was promoted from just being the work of inspired men to being the Just a reminder, this went against She described the writers as Next, they swapped out the for just the plain old Trinity, which many Adventists were none too happy about. They were going to need to do more than So in 1957, the General Conference published by performatively throwing Ellen under the bus. You better believe Adventists For decades they had been doing the opposite. Despite these protests, Questions Adventism became more This is what one prominent minister said That didn't necessarily settle the issue, there are still many Christian but of the four, they're definitely The majority of Adventists saw a PR document that said what was They disregarded it and continued In fact, if you look at it today, Adventist theology and doctrine really hasn't The things they argued about back then Thankfully, in 2005, the church Not everyone fully agrees with them, but We're going to run through each one, and some are complete 180s from previous beliefs. Starting with the first one, the Holy Scriptures, which reversed their 1957 position on the Bible. The Holy Scriptures, Old and New Testaments, are the written word of God, The inspired authors spoke and wrote So it's just divinely inspired. The writers were channeling God's Just like the infallible Ellen White said. Two is the Trinity. God is a God the Father, God the Son, I know we've talked this one to death, and it sounds like the issue is settled. But there is something worth pointing out. This list was originally called the 27 The General Conference published detailing each of these beliefs. In this church publication, and had pretty much the exact same So... Do they really believe just trying to slip through that loophole again? Number 3 is about God the Father, nothing special or unexpected going on there. Number 4 talks about Jesus and reverts back to Forever truly God, he became also truly human. He lived and experienced but perfectly exemplified the Next is the Holy Spirit, who and an equal member of the Trinity and/or Godhead. He's on Earth right now providing Six has to do with Creation. Adventists believe God created everything in I'd show you a clip of them saying that, but the SDA video on this one It just talks about how we were Officially, the church does not which is the idea that the But unofficially, Ellen White did, George McCready Price became the father of modern creation science when he came up He then advised the anti-evolution He was a Seventh-day Adventist. I rest my case. [Gavel slams] Number 7 has to do with the creation of man. The SDA believe that when they doomed humanity with a fallen They don't believe in "original You're not born with sin, Though, instead of having to atone for they do think you can continue So if you create a violent you are still responsible for all the hateful The 8th Fundamental Belief is No points for guessing what this one is about. They believe that the events and rephrased by Ellen White, literally happened. Satan rebelled and was cast down, all of that. The next one is just the To save man from sin, Christ came up with his When John Milton wrote Paradise Lost, He was making up a story. He never once claimed To be fair, plenty of other Christians believe often without knowing their source. I made a few well-costumed videos about that. The sexy, and even sympathetic depiction of Satan is the protagonist of this story. The next two say basically the same thing. Number 10, through Christ, anyone can Number 11, through the Holy Spirit, Eleven is the one they added in 2005 to bring the If you can find a significant difference The next one has to do with the Church itself. Again, churches are always female, and the Seventh-day Adventist Church Number 13 is a bit tricky, because it Most Christians will read this that they will be part of the But the Adventists believe that time came in 1844, We are already in the last They keep the commandments and the Everyone else is corrupt and part of Babylon. The 14th Amendment says that The 14th Fundamental Belief says that That's just a fun, post-2005 coincidence. Back when this was just the 27 Fifteen talks about baptism. Adventists and not until you're old enough to understand However, they don't have a You can't make an eternal commitment but, life-long religious vows? Whenever you're ready. The next one is titled "The Lord's I want to give you a little bit of background. I've been touching on Adventism for a while now, and they were a pretty big But I started working on this video Once I had read 2 or 3 of the eventual 8 books I put out a call on Twitter asking if any of my followers were Adventists and could Quite a few reached out and I appreciated that. But I very quickly noticed a pattern They seem to be under the impression Now, every denomination But you have no idea how many times someone only for it to be something completely normal. For example, here's what one person said. I asked for permission before reading this. "The weirdest thing we do is Passover. It's not like the Jewish Passover. It's more like a 'Last Supper' ceremony, with foot washing and the eating of unleavened "Oh, my Mom is fact-checking me. We call it communion and it's Really? Tell me more about this "communion" thing. The Lord's Supper, or Communion, is often misunderstood because of the Eating and drinking Jesus' body and blood? That may sound strange to people who But hopefully this video can begin to clarify what It's just Communion, with the The same communion that basically every Some churches do it once a For the Adventists, it's every three months. I'm sorry, but it's not that weird. And that's a big part of the religion belongs in the "cult" category. The Seventh-day Adventists don't have any Every Christian, by definition, believes that Christ will return and Adventists just think that we They don't have their own version of the Bible. They don't believe Jesus came to America. And they don't believe illness Everything they believe can be found in The only thing special about them is their specific combination of Not even number 18, the A female prophet whose writings help to Where have I heard that one before? Mary Baker Eddy is the prophet Just like Ellen White, her work is still held Here is the current President of The Fundamental Beliefs playlist on the SDA Church's official Youtube This was made post-2005, so number 11 is The Gift of Prophecy is the one that's missing. The main thing that other Christians cite as to why the Adventists are a It kind of seems like they're trying by obfuscating the fact that they The 19th Fundamental Belief and that the Commandments are still in effect. Their video on this one - which is the 18th video in the playlist thanks to throwing off the entire numbering The works being following God's laws. Nowhere does God state that following these laws The law does not save us, We need God's grace, not his law, to be saved. I know I said I didn't care about this earlier, but there are two parts to salvation. Justification, which comes from faith in Christ, and sanctification, which is the Going back to the law example, when you won't be judged on your faith. You need to have faith to get in the courtroom, then you are judged on how I guess what I'm trying to say is And teal is blue. You need faith plus works, even if Otherwise, the next Fundamental Belief, about the Sabbath and how from sunset to sunset, wouldn't be on the list. Up until 2022, the SDA Church Manual stated that Stewardship is the 21st and discusses the 10% tithe due by every member of That's the number specified in Leviticus 27:32, so a lot of churches use that same 10%. Twenty-two is a big one, it's basically No alcohol, tobacco, or drugs. A vegetarian diet, and They even have suggestions on what to wear. So, Adventists are encouraged even wedding rings are controversial. Ellen White was personally against them, saying "Not one penny should be spent for a circlet Speaking of, according to Fundamental Belief Just in case you were wondering what Genesis introduces marriage It is a spiritual union of three. Whoa, whoa. If that's the case, Jesus needs to be doing the dishes more often. Putting another L in the marriage column, they also seem to be against no-fault divorces. I love that the advice given to people in Twenty-four talks about soul sleep and that Christ began the investigative judgment in the This is arguably the most important Fundamental If you don't believe this one, you're just a vegetarian Christian To this day, ministers claim William but not the predicted event. They almost never mention that he later recanted. The last four Fundamental Beliefs are basically you get the idea just from the titles: The Second Coming of Christ. The Millennium and the End Many biblical scholars today disregard Revelation. It was written decades after Jesus and was The beast was meant to be the emperor Nero. More importantly, it was talking about The Catholic Church didn't exist yet. Despite that, it's Adventists' and biblical prophecy that makes them I know it's been a while, but that was the thesis That was just a fun side quest. Let's get back on track. Fifteen years after Ellen White died, Victor Houteff published a book titled The Victor believed that all of the 144,000 chosen But in 1930, there were 300,000 not all of them would be getting in. He stated that the SDA was too causing them to become spiritually lax. Even Ellen White warned against having Victor's new light was that Adventists shouldn't be content with just announcing They should be doing more. Echoing Charles Fitch in 1843, Houteff and seclude itself from the rest of the world so it could devote itself to preparing for Like William Miller, he was not He just wanted to reform the SDA from within. And just like the Millerite Houteff's followers would interrupt services or debate Adventists in church Predictably, many of them were Victor needed a place for his followers, then known as the Shepherd's Rod, to gather and wait for the Second Coming. So in 1935, he bought 200 acres of land 7 miles He believed that this would fulfill the prophetic Because at this point, the exist and the Bible doesn't really So it might as well be Texas. Two years later, Victor, who was 52 years Gross. She immediately became his primary Remember how the SDA officially organized Well, in 1942, Victor Houteff incorporated his group as the Davidian Seventh-day King David's throne is where Jesus and since his Houteff's group were preparing He hoped that by including the the Davidian church would gain some added Victor Houteff died on February The Davidians were expecting Houteff to So when he died and Florence took over the group, she needed to account for that to stay in power. On November 9, 1955, Florence resurrected and Christ would Exactly 1260 days from the date of that notice. I didn't bring this up earlier but let's go back to Miller's 1843 chart. Recall that 1798 was an important When the French deposed the Pope, they ended the 1260 days So you take 42 months, with 30 days Since day means year, it is known, these 1260 years are supposed to horn from Daniel 7, which is the Catholic Church. This 1260-year period was known as the when the Vandals and Ostrogoths to 1798 when the Pope was captured. Why 538 AD and not when the Papacy actually began? Because then the math wouldn't work. So Florence took that same 1260 years and set a new date for the end of the world. At the same time, Florence announced that they by using radio targeted Like the early Sabbatarians, they They wanted people who already believed, but maybe needed some guidance. To raise funds for that project, the Davidians and traded it for 941 acres on Double Ee Ranch Their radio show, the 11th and told the faithful to come to Waco About a thousand non-Davidian You already know I hate April 22, 1959 came and went and nothing happened. Shortly afterwards, the Seventh-day Adventists hosted a sort and any other followers who were In the end, only 50 Davidians remained. Florence admitted she was wrong and by 1962, she had disbanded the Davidian Seventh-day New Mount Carmel was purchased by two who had split off to form the Branch The Branch Davidians were trying to turn New Mount Carmel into the temple So here we are, the Branch A breakaway of a breakaway movement started by William Miller in the 1840s. Now that Israel was a literal place on the map, Roden believed that they needed to go there They bought property in Jerusalem Waco was no longer the gathering place, it was a staging area to prepare Adventists The group quietly chugged along until 1977, when Lois returned from Israel and announced that she'd had vision proving that Making God both masculine and feminine, which some considered to be blasphemy. But her husband supported her claim Much like what that overworked and intemperate General Conference president by the When he died the next year, she automatically Only in Lois' case, her son George challenged Lois won, but he didn't accept the until she took out a restraining order While the group was legally incorporated as the General Association of the Branch Lois began calling it the "Living As this was happening, Vernon Howell was He frequently interrupted services wondering why God wouldn't keep sending messages. The Adventists recognize the visions The whole thing was started by Hiram Edson's But once Ellen got the gift, that was it. Nobody else ever became a prophet. That's when Vernon was told a woman named Lois who was having visions. In the summer of 1981, he which was no longer being referred to as "new," Despite the awkwardness, he She hired him as her personal driver and which many of her other followers He was trying to have a child with the prophetess Which would have been something He was only 24. I know, right? Gross. What's with this group and having sex Hearing about this, George returned and forced Vernon and his two dozen In 1984, Vernon, now 25, married What? That's legal in Texas if you In fact, it still is. Gross. The next year, he and Rachel traveled to Israel While there, Vernon had a divine experience where he announced his revelation. He declared that he was King Cyrus, the only gentile messiah mentioned in the Bible. As such, he took the name David Koresh, a combination of King David and the He was also the Lamb from Revelation, the one destined to open the Seven At this point, it's like we're in a I half expected Koresh to declare the bearer of the one ring, who will bring balance to the force. Unlike William Miller and Ellen White, Koresh was not a reluctant prophet or messenger. He was more than happy to make The Lamb is normally interpreted as Jesus. But in Isaiah 53, it's mentioned Jesus had no kids, but David was In Revelation, the Lamb is attacked by The Branch Davidians, much believe that the US government is working with or being controlled by Babylon. Back in 1888, around the same time that Thanksgiving and Christmas a Sunday law was introduced in the US Senate. Meaning it would be illegal to work on that day. The stated purpose was to keep America Christian Several states already had Our old pal Willie C White was press on Sunday in California, of all places. The Adventists interpreted the national bill and even though it didn't pass, the perception of In the summer of 1985, Koresh went to the quinquennial General to recruit new members by singing It didn't work out so well. Then he went to Loma Linda, California, which became an Adventist hot spot after When the Battle Creek Sanitarium went secular, the church opened the College of its replacement nursing schools. In 1961, the name was changed Today, Loma Linda, California is one of meaning that an unusual amount Likely due to their vegetarian Koresh was targeting a somewhat younger recruiting among the university Lois Roden died in 1986, leaving of Mount Carmel and Koresh in That same year, Koresh introduced saying that God instructed him And then another. And then another. Until finally he said that all women in According to Revelation 4:4, he Wives would still perform household but would only have sex with Koresh. All men in the group were to remain celebate. Some of the members obviously left, but those who stayed competed with Why not?! After all, he was the one who would open the and free humanity from the Matrix. In November 1987, Koresh and his followers a shootout with George Roden commenced, and all of them were arrested. David Koresh and his group were But George was sentenced to restraining order banning him from the property. With George out of the way, David Koresh and the Branch Davidians and they decided to enter the firearms business. In 1992, there was a rumor floating around that the federal government was So they began to buy up as many semi-automatic rifles as they could to convert them to Converting weapons was not illegal at the time. But doing so without filing the They also began to bulk order Two things that are legal to own separately, but once you put them together, you're going to have a bad time. Now, I don't know how many of you but it's usually the same person It's the same Fedex or UPS driver. They have assigned neighborhoods. Well, the UPS driver for Waco, Texas started to notice a pattern in what You have to tell UPS what's in So these were all labeled "black powder," You don't need a vision from God to figure The UPS driver alerted the Sheriff, According to Koresh's Babylon was supposed to attack Koresh would then be resurrected The Branch Davidians were not only willing, but expecting to die to fulfill biblical prophecy. Religious cults committing Jonestown happened just 15 years earlier. To add to the situation, the ATF had wrongfully killing Randy Weaver's wife and son. So they really needed a win here. On February 28, 1993, 76 ATF Agents onto the Mount Carmel property I don't really know what happened after but I assume everything went to plan. It was only after the raid that the Branch which was that his entire persona was plagiarized! Oh, you thought we were done with this plotline. Well, no! It's plagiarism all the way down. In October 1869 an alchemist named Cyrus He then had a vision from a female Holy Spirit, telling him he was the Lamb from He was also a new iteration of King Cyrus, the only gentile messiah mentioned in the Bible, and as such, he took the name Koresh. Cyrus Teed likewise claimed that the end was So I like to imagine that he was running By the 1890s, his followers, known as the Florida and had begun a publication called There were enough of them that they and grant huge tax breaks to themselves to build Over the years, Koresh was And I mean, if you're gonna steal some of it, In 1906, the people of Estero Teed and he died of his injuries two years later. Much like the next Koresh 85 years later, he had fulfilled the prophecy of the Lamb. He was attacked by Babylon, In the most Florida ending ever, his tomb washed out to sea Despite all that, in 1931, his published it as Koreshanity: The New Age Religion. They were a pretty small group, For whatever reason, a new edition It still wasn't a very popular book, but it managed to find its way Including the Waco-McLennan County Library, which acquired their copy in November 1972. It's impossible to prove if Lois Roden or Vernon We all know they did. Alright, so let's tie it all that the SDA are responsible for a lot of the anti-government conspiracy theories The original Adventist movement biblical prophecy and secular and made a calculation for when the When it didn't, the movement fractured most of which kept making future predictions. The Seventh-day Adventists decided that but not about what was Instead of Christ returning to Earth, he entered the second apartment They believed it was their duty or as they put it, "tell the world." According to Revelation, once everyone Victor Houteff didn't think that was enough. Instead of just spreading the good news, they should be laying the necessary foundations They needed to establish a fulfilling another prophecy and Once Israel was established as a literal place, the Branch Davidians felt that the There's a natural, and perhaps even inevitable, progression from expecting a to preparing for it, to bringing it about. If a religion preaches that signs and prophecies to predict future events, and that those events actually happened, people are going to keep making predictions. And when you trace the history from William it becomes clear that the Adventists are This isn't just my opinion, this is a well Every person I talked to on Twitter mentioned it. This is from Spectrum, an Adventist You can see that cognitive William Miller said that Christ would Rather than accept that they were wrong, they decided that something else happened. Ellen White herself went on to the Great Disappointment that didn't come true. Not that they happened spiritually in the heavenly Instead of disregarding her beliefs, she came up with the alternate to hear Christ's message before he would return. Which would effectively take That didn't stop others in the scripture themselves and splitting Which is how we ended up Waco was 9/11 before 9/11. "Who started the fire?" was the 1990s Right wing militias exploded primarily fueled by the idea that the government was somehow infringing on the Branch Timothy McVeigh was hoping to up the Oklahoma City Federal Exactly 2 years after the which he had personally driven out to witness. The Federal Assault Weapons Ban took Since Congress didn't renew it in 2004, like everybody at the time Well, here we are. The ban kept those militias relatively small. They didn't see a second Obama became president and Sandy Hook happened. Alex Jones got his start by spreading bankrupt by spreading Sandy He was involved throughout all of this. As much as I wish we could dismiss him as a crank, a lot of his insane beliefs have They're everyone's problem now. While not an Adventist, Alex Jones has been warning his audience Here's that verse from Revelation. This has been attributed to all sorts of things Honestly, if the government wants you to have it, Alex Jones has probably called I probably don't need to tell you this, but the latest iteration is the COVID vaccine. Many Adventists equated not being able to not being able to go to movie theaters And if they believed in anti-vaxx conspiracies, they'd often find themselves wrapped up in QAnon. Which is itself a religious doomsday cult. For the uninitiated: Someone named Q claimed to work in the government with and was supposedly posting their inside The Q-drops, as they were Often just lists of names or questions. It was then left to the Anons to decode Mass arrests would take place on this day. JFK Jr would reveal he's And Trump was supposed to be The government had been corrupted, politicians and celebrities alike were and their savior would return to set things right. Sound familiar? The message of Revelation is not But rather, about how God won't allow Jesus will come back to make all things right. As ridiculous as conspiracies like QAnon when you peel back the layers, you discover that at their There's been a recent resurgence Television documentaries, internet posts, and entire websites are devoted to the idea. Some people claim that the Bible You can't make it five minutes into a Flat They think the Earth is flat because Genesis 1:7 says that on the second day, You had your five major religions Judaism, Islam, and Christianity. Each of these groups had their own version or the flat circular world enclosed by a solid dome-like barrier from where the You can show them all the evidence you want. They can even design their own But they still believe the Earth is flat, because underneath it all, That essentially makes them unreachable. Because in order to convince you also have to convince them that the And that core belief isn't just at the heart of fringe conspiracies that cause You can see its influence across I use this example a lot because it 49% of Americans attributed the severity of recent natural disasters to "What the In their view, a climate catastrophe is supposed So, any attempts to stop it or slow it I think this is the mindset of a "yes, climate change is happening, but Because it's supposed to happen. Switching to another pressing current event, many American Protestants support because they think it fulfills the The same one that the Branch Davidians did. In addition to that, the Bible attack Israel during the final battle. Each one takes turns being the big bad. During the Cold War, it was Russia. Today? It's Iran. It's scary to think that at least in part, on a religious prophecy. As I said in the beginning, Adventists are But they've been around long enough and have so many members that I think they Evangelical Christians also make up a The only difference between them and the And the Evangelical movement is Though if history has taught us When the Sabbatarians emerged there were only 50 of them. Today, there are 22 million The most famous of which Do you even remember that guy? I do want to reiterate that while I dug the Adventists are probably the most harmless Despite claiming to be a prophet, Ellen's visions were pretty mundane. Aside from believing that Jesus is pretty much every Adventist doctrine Even going to church on The Seventh-day Baptists still exist. The Adventists may have a more but I'm not sure they deserve to be lumped in with They may have given us David Koresh and Waco, but they also gave us So it all evens out in the end, right? I'll actually have to give that one some thought. But at least now, you know better. There, I finished it. Now I don't know why you put it on a VHS tape, but it was basically unusable. I had to redo the whole thing. Put up the green screen, get Hey, you there? I said, I finished, and you can stop pestering me! [TV Static] [Tense music] You see, I found this ancient artifact Well at least make a better connection. Could you stop messing with stuff? I'm trying to make a video here. Hah, did you see when this thing was made? [Tense music] Nope. Nope. Not gonna do it. [Portal music] I'd like to give a shout out to Jaden, Misti, Space Kitty, Antti, If you'd like to add your name to head on over to patreon.com/knowingbetter. Or for a one time donation paypal.me/knowingbetter. Don't forget to bless that subscribe button, or the join button if you've already been saved. Check out the merch at knowingbetter.tv/. Follow me on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, and join us on the subreddit. [Outro music]