Train the Mind to Merge 31 December 2023 [Mooji] I see a few [mimics yawns] Namaste everyone and namaste to all who are joining us very happy to see you. And today, we have been very quiet here in Monte Sahaja. For those who I can see on the screen, big welcome, big love to you all, and I'm happy that We have a little time, for those who have a strong sense of the New Year, But for us here in Monte Sahaja, to see the year out, so to speak, But more important, During the break I had a little look and I felt I would like to read So I saw one or two verses So I marked them, actually. Now, I don't know, if all those who are joining if you have been really following I am so happy that we have come to that level of sharing, where the pointings have become so immediate in their effect, and the impact inside the heart. If you have, then I would feel very happy that may resonate, Now, in the Avadhuta Gita, I saw one, He says, 'There is no such thing for me or for you. For there is no me, no you, All is the Self and the One Self alone.' I know this will resonate with you. 'There is no such thing as union or separation.' Why not? Because many people will say, 'Yes, there is no separation, So why does the sage say, 'There is no such thing as separation or union'? Or even union. So he is saying, Beyond separation and unity, is what? And I feel, those who have been following, and experiencing the outcome such pointings should just flow in harmony So, I felt good enough to share that. Then he says, 'There is no me, no you, Is that too much too say? Meaning, we let go of all the phenomenal representations that come in the mind, not destroy, not destroy, but simply to be detached from them. Leave everything. Drop everything. And if you do it, even as I speak, because this is not a lecture! It's immediate, as we speak. If you drop all these things, what remains? There will remain This is not a psychological pointer. This is not some kind of koan. This is not some sort of intellectual conviction. It is directly relatable, like that, for you. Meaning you come to that emptiness, you discover that underlying emptiness in which everything that manifests is perceived; They are appearances that come and go. I'm looking at the sangha, [Mooji] Yes or no? [Mooji] Yes, yes, yes. Finally, this verse says, Can you relate to this? When we go upstairs and 'Yes', and identity, and so on, there comes the big flourishing and contrasts and so on, which is fascinating for the earthly identity. But now you have been given, or shown, given the ability, release your ability And there should not be any argument about it, because you have come to that by grace, to see, 'Wait, yes, Nothing is permanent there.' Only that which is able to verify that that is permanence! [Mooji] So, you're liking to hear that? [M.] Yes. Let me see if I can find something else. [silence] 'If God is all-pervading, immovable, then there can be no division in Him at all. How then could He be regarded I'm going to go again. The sage knows. He's not asking, 'If?' But because they speak to ... Sometimes the doubting mind says, 'If God is all-pervading, immovable, whole, without any parts', meaning limitless, 'Then there can be no division Here we can use the word God, or you can use 'Consciousness', as you cannot have an unconscious God. So God is all-pervading. 'All-pervading Consciousness is immovable, How long will it take for you to confirm this, if you come and pay attention And the space of the Self, No, no. It's even beyond object and subject. Are these words too advanced? It will not be so, if you follow. We are not here in a university, But just through it's fully revealing the natural state. 'How then can God be regarded Because if He is within, They say not only within or without. Beyond within or without. 'The whole universe is shining as One reality, without any split or break or separate parts.' I've got to keep an eye on the time, they say. 'The idea of maya', which is illusion, delusion, 'is itself the great delusion'. You know, I am so happy without feeling I'm overwhelming In fact, it becomes like a mirror that reflects your limitless joy and peace. Sangha here, sangha there [online], 'So the whole universe is shining as One reality.' You can continue saying, on the physical and non-physical realms, 'Are shining as One reality without any split or break or separate parts. The very idea of maya is itself a great delusion. Duality and even non-duality Come on, be happy with me. 'Duality and nonduality are merely concepts.' So, we are not speaking about concepts. We may say, 'They are concepts', but even the very pointing out That which is beyond concepts, beyond the interrelated concepts [M.] Are you in joy with me about this? [Mooji] My gosh! OK. Let me do one more. See if I can find... I think I made another mark somewhere here. 'It', meaning the Self, You ought to be able to listen the limitless space of being. If I say that, [Mooji points to sangha live on Zoom] Do you have to go to imagination? Again. 'It is not divided nor is it undivided. It experiences neither sorrow nor joy.' Although sorrow or joy can be perceived, through the realm of the mind But it says here, Meaning that is not caught up in that. 'It is not the universe, Is that too complex? The only way you can grasp this 'Understand that the Self is Eternally One.' You can use 'Eternally One' Eternally means unending time. Timeless means beyond time. And you who have been listening and following, and not just listening in the mind, but really verifying inside the heart-being, how can you comprehend this? You're not holding anything. When you look in a mirror, you're not trying to capture the mirror, the image; it reflects perfectly! 'Understand that the Self is Eternally One.' Only, when you are empty, and your mind is not called into action to comprehend what is being said, everything can flow unobstructed Because the beingness [Mooji] Is it true or not? [M.] You know, what joy it is and can float inside your expanse. And you're not trying to enjoy. I feel like that, [Mooji] Am I over-rating you? [Voices in sangha] No. [Mooji] OK, I'll put this away for now. Why can we speak like that? And the speaking like that is not... It is That! And it is beyond that. What kind of New Year sharing is this? On New Year's Eve, we're still in the eve, no? Oh! I'm misreading that clock. [Shree aside] Four minutes. Are we going to make a conclusion We have plenty of time! [Mooji] I'm looking at those of you This is not some psychological trick, What joy it is to be able to share in a way that is very relatable and I'm going to say 'experienceable', but it's not the correct word, And not grasping to hold. But ... So like a mirror takes no time to reflect. This is the quality of heart consciousness. Before we were employing to kind of grasp and to figure out something, But all of this, by grace, and through the exercise and the pointings, that heavy garment of mental structure has been lifted, by grace, off you. Maybe not everybody can say that. I say it on your behalf. Because it's very important that it becomes proof. Not the proof to someone else, So, I'm very happy. What does it mean, It means nothing at all, actually. We have one and a half minutes to go These are concepts of the mind. And yet, at the same time, We can enjoy, 'Happy New Year!' But we're not carried away, 'Oh, goodbye last year'. Because you are beginning to experience in the limitless space of being, It's not just the sangha that is. In the reality, there's no sangha! You see, I didn't plan to speak like this. But I'm talking and I'm looking if there are people dropping off. It is a great joy to be able to speak on these things, Why? Because you have been persisting with the simple guidance, the exercise. The exercise cannot produce the Self. It only ... [Bell rings indicating [laughter] [Mooji to online sangha] Can you hear the bell? We have a bell ringing here. It's Happy New Year, we say like that. If I have something better it is to say, blessing to all the beings. But the blessing will particularly reach those whose whose hearts and minds are exuding the urge for awakening to the Timeless. And these are not abstractions. They are not the most recent concepts. It is just pointing to that actually, That's the common language in the world, But more that what is untrue is exposed And that which is timelessly present, and cannot be added onto is revealed; that's it. I don't want to make any speech. But to see and be in the presence of a sangha that is able to comprehend directly, and to verify the truth of that in their heart, brings great joy for me. And yes, sometimes the mind from time to time, and when it does, do not be disappointed. It's the dance of momentariness that comes. And you will have to look sometime, so that you don't get pulled again and past, and mere matter, but that, somehow, it's OK. The mind and thought a sense of agitation can come, but it cannot carry off What Is Like the river cannot carry off the ground that it flows over. Is it saying too much, to say like that? Well, if it is, and to continue being persistent. It is not that, somehow, It's not a magic formula. A mirror is not a magical thing! But as we come more and more to recognise how the mind and how delusions happen, we are being set free from their spell. So I just want to say, and those who are not able to join like this, and bless you that your highest aspiration, your deepest urge, particularly for awakening, and that even the possibility, something called awakening is possible, But we go further to say, bless that this is in each one, and that you find death cannot conquer, So I ... If it is not so already, it will not be long before these words find smooth resonance inside your heart that you are able to confirm, 'It is so'. Not necessarily that you confirm But you are confirmed in that realisation. [silence] I could say more, but ... What I'm going to do, I feel can we sit for a few minutes together? Will you join us? Will you join us? Yes? Be free. You can join or not. Just to recap for those who what our most recent practice is, In guidance it is very simple. You are aware of the mind and the senses and even the sense of being somebody. These are all created in the mind. So when I say, Leave all this for a moment ... All that we talk of, all that we can discuss, I invite, leave this aside for a moment. Learn to drop everything for a moment. Don't throw it away! I don't ask you to judge. We can all do that, leave that aside. And make a little more effort aside. You will not lose anything of value. And in the emptiness that remains, we say, keep your being and your attention, even the natural sense of being, the sense that you exist, that 'I am'-ness feeling inside, you are aware of that, And we do here in this simple exercise, we'll start with just five minutes, we'll do. And in this five minutes, just try and just hold, just be, just stay in the sense of being. And what we find is that, by asking that, we begin to find, And I say, don't fight. Just refuse to go with the mind-flow and just come back to stay empty. Each time it goes back, bring it back to the neutrality of being. This is a simple exercise we will do. But some will experience tremendous difficulty, because you come to realise that And when you choose and to stay only empty, And you see, that my mind is stronger than In the beginning! This very day, what a beautiful way to, let's say, start the New Year, We don't have to hold these sentiments here. It's just another opportunity to sit. And I will start with the bell. Then we'll sit for five minutes. After that, we'll stop. Each time you hear this sound, it simply means, Drop the shapes. Drop the thought. That's what the sticks mean. Thank you. Om. Five minutes. [silence] Simply leave all concerns, all thoughts; Leave them now. Drop them. If you do this, even with the intention, a space of emptiness naturally remains. Be conscious of this emptiness. Nothing more. Nothing to develop, or change, or become. Simply remain conscious, awake, empty. No need to ask your mind to co-operate. Discover what it is, simply to be. Not the act of being, not the verb of being, but the noun of being, the Is-ness of being. Thank you. [Mooji clacks the sticks] For some of you, if you feel, you may also experience some sensation like going into sleep; this you cut! Just remain conscious and empty. It doesn't matter if it feels difficult. Expect that, in the beginning. Don't take shape. [Mooji clacks the sticks] Om. That was just to get settled. Relaxed. You can just shake out. OK, we're going in now for ten minutes. For those who join [online], Om [Mooji rings the bell] If you choose to remain empty, though in the beginning know that it longs to be one with the being. So your resolve is to There's no failure. So each time we feel we are back No fight. Simply come back. This is the training. Simple. Refuse everything the mind will offer you. Not now! [Mooji clacks the sticks] No identity. No plans. No creating. Pure being. [Mooji clacks the sticks] Be aware of the mind. Stay as awareness, like unlimited space. Clean. Clear. Be that space. Timeless. Shapeless. Be only awareness. Without content. [Mooji clacks the sticks] No imagination. No self-portrait. Beingness has no habit. Clear. Stay empty. Feel the pull of the mind, but remain empty like vast space. Do not imagine space. Om. Very good. Very good. [Mooji] Can you take 15 [minutes]? [Mooji looks questioningly at the online sangha] [Mooji] OK. Om. Pay no attention to mind habits. Stay as the Self. Shapeless. Don't get trapped by sleep. Clear. Stay without identity. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] No sleeping. Just be! Don't think. The mind struggles Stay empty. Allow the mind to come to the heart. No words. No identity. Very good. [Mooji clacks the sticks] Don't drop the head. Remain aware, yet empty. No sleeping. Keep straight. Awake. Without content. No thought is important here. Leave all. Clear awareness. Awake. Om. Very good. Very good. You can feel the resistance. When we try to keep attention It feels very unfamiliar. When the intention is to you begin to feel the power and see that, This is changing. Because, actually, the mind And this is the direct way! Not discussion. And you see how much fight ... I see some people, [mimes inner battle] It's a good fight. The best fight! Because, gradually, sometimes maybe it feels impossible, like the mind is winning, What matters is, you persist! The results are coming, are growing in you. Maybe you don't see them yet. After you begin to feel the power of just holding the attention in beingness, it will grow more and more powerful; Then the mind can enjoy the being. Mind is not enjoying the being. Mind is enjoying bad habits This simple exercise ... Five minutes. Eyes open, for five minutes. It's a beautiful start to the New Year, if you want to use this type of thing. What better way? Set the pace. Like that. Beautiful. Beautiful. Thank you. If some want to come a bit forward, Don't stand in front of the camera. If you want, you can come a little bit, but not in front of this line for me now. OK. OK. Om. For awareness itself, eyes open, eyes closed. Very important! The same space. Awareness is not behind or in front. It's all-pervading. Eyes empty. Eyes empty. Seeing and being are one. Often mind will not, initially, It doesn't matter. Later. Now, the pulse of thinking is dropping. You are not the eyes open. You are the awareness of eyes open. Eyes open, eyes closed: Be aware of this. Offer no entertainment to the mind Be aware, without shopping. Om. Now, even though we have been you still watch the mind is not happy, because it wants food and food is your identity and attention. But this is how the beingness It's as though the mind is holding but we are unaware of it. And when it doesn't get... I'm not turning the mind into a gangster. It's just a force of habit. When it doesn't get the food then it's like a spoilt child, it's rebelling, and it takes the form of sleep. Do you feel it? Sometimes sleep comes. [head nods] So the support comes, 'No, stay empty.' 'Awake, aware, empty.' It's training the mind to merge It will not do it by itself. [silence] So don't give too much importance to the initial resistance that comes. It will come. And the mind energy will feel very annoyed and irritable and fidgety, It's like a drug! Do you follow? It's like a drug, like an addiction, but you never thought you're addicted. This is how the addiction works. You never thought you are addicted. Until now you're told, Actually, we are being! And the root of being! That's What Is! That's reality! But it's eclipsed or veiled And how does mind get such a power? By taking the 'I'. 'I' means consciousness. But the mind takes the 'I' And we forget. So this is the power of this exercise! All your therapies cannot compare All the readings, all the other things, any kind of mental gymnastics Because just like you cannot learn you cannot learn to swim from the internet, you cannot discover and be your Self It's a simple exercise, And you feel the pull. You could have just woken up but you sit and ... [mimics nodding off] What is this behaviour? Not true sleep! Then all kinds of thoughts , but I say, don't worry about those, but don't log into their energy. And you'll find, with practice, you're more able to stay out. Then you can And eventually, This is the home of the mind, But left unchecked, he just roams about. And you pay the price of that. All addictions come from this. All delusion, all confusion, all sorrows, all frustrations, all fatigue, all hatred, restlessness, envy, all darkness comes from this: the mind-force unchecked. Now you're doing the most powerful thing! Then also ... I gave this prayer also. Sometimes we do the exercise, you sit for half an hour and it's as though you're flowing You say, 'Whoa!' Then, gradually, the mind comes. But the mind cannot disturb the real being. It comes and it brings up the person again. This will gradually go. So I added to it, this prayer, for those who can feel that, to the universal consciousness, God, 'Please, whatever message that is binding my soul or binding me and producing negative effects, unrecognised', you offer this prayer, 'Please delete! This is prayer. Do you see? And you keep doing it. And the consciousness, will now start to reveal and show you Then when you see them, 'This, I offer this.' Because your connection with God is an interactive relationship. It's not that you post it. It's not, 'Oh, I put in my appeal and leave it'. Now, if you're serious, you will persist, you give it attention, no matter how much you seem to fail, And this same persistence is here. But unlike anything else, this is releasing you from time, from the prison of time and personhood. This is breaking the chain, this is breaking the ... It's taking you off the wheel of samsara, so that you live as being, and not as a person becoming the beingness. And you will experience that for yourself, you'll know instinctively, intuitively, that you're in the height of your own being! And more and more you do, like that. [Mooji] It's good? [Mooji] Could we have had [Voices in sangha] No. Better than well wishes, gifts, money, party, drink, [mimics snorting]. Better than any of these things, because all these things are food for the mind! You have done the best: to sit! And take the torment out of your mind so that you're not a prisoner [Mooji] So, very good. Thank you! [M.] Thank you all, friends, sangha, I'm most delighted to have This collective sitting Very good. Thank you. OK. [M.] Very good. [Mooji] Ah, thank you, thank you. Thank you. Same, same. Same, same. This satang is in honour of [Mooji] Yes? [Mooji] Thank you. If you keep in the core of your being this intention, 'This life is for freedom' ... Not next week, 'I'll start next week', Life, your life is here now. Always here now. Always here now. Nobody lives tomorrow. It's always in the now. Consciousness. Now. It's now. Now, not as a moment of time, but as the timeless awareness Very good. Thank you. Thank you. [Mooji] Thank you. Dear Sangha, Wishing the most transcendent and peace to the whole world. God bless you. Copyright 2024 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.