From an empty airport used as a go-karting back into the sea. And from two fully functional nuclear power largest abandoned amusement park in the world. This is part 4 of our most useless megaprojects craziest one so far. Let's start with Number 7: The Mirabel Airport Imagine an airport with enough space to accommodate That's what the massive Mirabel Airport, in In other words, the entire Canadian population and there'd still be room to spare. But despite all that, not a single passenger To understand how this happened we need to In those days, Montreal was the gateway to Europe would land at an airport called Dorval. And as Canada became more and more popular, every year. Eventually, the Canadian government started the extra passengers. They needed a new airport. They needed a bigger airport. And that's why they decided to build Mirabel Dorval as the country's international hub. This ambitious project took five years to Canadian dollars -- that's a couple of It opened at the end of 1975, and was met In terms of area, it was literally the largest But there was one minor problem... The Mirabel airport had terrible transport get to. A high-speed rail was meant to be built between when the government ran out of funding. In the end, the only way to get to Mirabel These buses were slow and unreliable, and were not impressed. So, they started to fly to Toronto instead, links. Toronto quickly became the new gateway to airlines canceling their flights to the giant It was too badly connected to be worth anybody's Nowadays, Mirabel still doesn't have any It's only really used for cargo flights, and an amateur go-karting track. It's better than nothing, and it does mean Unlike the next megaproject on this list... Number 6: Wonderland Eurasia In 2019, an amusement park opened its gates Not just any amusement park: this Turkish the whole of Europe, with 800 million dollars dinosaurs. Wonderland Eurasia, as this park was called, Only two other parks in the entire world -- Canada's more. Not to mention the second biggest fountain than a hundred meters in the air. Wonderland Eurasia was something to get excited At least... that's what the developers thought. Turkish authorities expected the park to attract But the park was nowhere near as popular as The rides turned out to be pretty low quality, Visitors started leaving bad reviews, and The park soon started losing money, as the higher than the ticket sales. In the end, the entire place was abandoned, to visitors. Now, the park looks like an apocalyptic wasteland, and thieves. In 2022, locals voted that Wonderland Eurasia a woodland or a park. Anyways, let's continue with Number 5: Eko Atlantic This next megaproject on the list is an entire Not just any city either. See that land it's built on? It's completely artificial. For millions of years, the Atlantic Ocean slowly washing away the beaches. In 2003, the Nigerian government decided to from the ocean, and using it to build a new, Eko Atlantic would be built on top: a luxury homes for almost a quarter of a million people. It's the opposite of Atlantis: instead of one would rise from the waves. Over the last few years, the Nigerian government peninsula sitting in place, protected from like to call the Great Wall of Lagos. This seawall makes sure that the peninsula storms. Overall, this is quite an impressive achievement. But having said that, building these artificial By blocking the natural flow of the ocean, -- and it has affected humans too. In 2012, the Atlantic Ocean swelled up the people. It's hard to know what exactly caused this, disruption of local currents. As well as all this, the construction of the at all. Right now, the peninsula is virtually empty, towers that were finished in 2016. Believe it or not, some people have moved Looking out their window, all they can see trace the outline of non-existent streets. And this was definitely not the plan. The Nigerian government originally wanted But although it's massively delayed, they done on the island, and slowly but surely, So, maybe, they'll still manage to pull As it stands today, Eko Atltantic is pretty to put on top of it. And Nigeria isn't the only country to make We'll be seeing an even more useless example But first, let's talk about... Number 4: The Millennium Dome If you look at a satellite image of London, out is a vast, white tent at the tip of the Nowadays, it's called the O2 arena, and it's But it wasn't always that way. A few years ago, this giant structure was Towards the end of the 1990s, the British event called the Millennium Experience -- a that would celebrate the start of the new whole year: from New Year's Eve in 1999, to A decision was made to host the event under It would be built on the Greenwich Meridian meant to represent the twelve hours in a day, in the sky. These support towers held up a net of steel polymer fabric. It was all very impressive. But everyone was wondering the exact same When the year 2000 came to an end, and the would happen to the dome? As it turned out, the British government didn't They thought of selling the dome to a local suitable. They thought of moving the dome to a different The dome just sat there, with maintenance The media began to complain about the massive In the end, a private company -- Meridian But still, nothing really changed. The dome just carried on sitting there. 2002 came around... then 2003, 4, 5, 6... But in 2007, something miraculous happened. The Millennium Dome reopened its doors. It had been transformed into a sports and and a central stage with 20,000 seats. The O2 Arena, as it was officially renamed, In other words, this megaproject is no longer Maybe that can give hope to all the others Number 3: The Bataan Nuclear Power Plant In 1973, the Philippines decided to build They weren't the only ones. This was a decade before the Chernobyl disaster, dangers, plenty of countries were experimenting The Bataan project was meant to transform And it definitely did that... but not in the In 1976, construction on the plant began. Although the process was quite slow, for the At least, it did until someone had the brilliant Why didn't they run these checks sooner? Who knows. But better late than never. As it turned out, there were more than 4000 some of these were pretty major. There was a faultline nearby, which meant Again, it's crazy that nobody thought to but we haven't even got to the worst part. There was a volcano right around the corner Who in their right mind would build a nuclear They should have abandoned the project there But they'd already spent so much money on They fixed as many of the 4000 issues as they By the time it was finished, in 1984, the US dollars. But before they could turn the power plant The world realized how dangerous a faulty in the Philippines was faced with a difficult Their power plant was finished, and ready Eventually, they decided that turning it on So, finally, they decided to cancel the project. The government thought about converting Bataan coal or oil. But as it turned out, it would have cost more these other power plants from scratch. In the end, the structure was just left to pointless 2 billion dollar project. It's a lot of money to throw away, especially They were paying back the debt for thirty But from a health and safety perspective, Remember that volcano we mentioned? It erupted in 1991. This isn't the only time that a nuclear activated. Around the same time, Austria built the Zwentendorf After finishing, they held a referendum to on. The public voted to shut the project down, It makes you wonder. Would it not have been easier to hold the of waiting until the work was finished? Number 2: The New South China Mall In 2005, the city of Dongguan, in the south on the largest shopping mall on Earth. This giant mall had enough space for hundreds stores. But three years after opening, in 2008, more The mall had invited hundreds of brands to anything to do with the project. There were a few fast food chains near the completely deserted. It all came down to economics. As a city, Dongguan was relatively poor, which jewelry, and electronics -- basically, the in a mall like this one. Retailers were well aware of that, which is What was the point in setting up a store in be enough money-spending customers to make The place became known as a ghost mall. An echoing, empty space. It was the largest mall in the world, but This lasted for more than a decade. But in 2019, something happened. The mall was rebranded for lower-income customers, night markets to help bring people in. In other words, it was now a much better fit Just like that, the mall began to gain in finally started moving in. Today, more than 90% of the space is occupied, into a busy, bustling space. It's a similar story to the Millennium Dome Number 1: The World Islands We've already talked about Nigeria's attempts And Nigeria isn't the only country who's You're probably aware of the Palm Jumeirah, coast of Dubai. But you might not know about another set of coast. Take a look at the World. Or, rather, a miniature version of the world. That's what Dubai has been working on since It's a pretty amazing project. Seven sets of islands to represent the continents America, Antarctica, and Oceania. Each island represents a country or landmark, All of them were built by construction workers, arranging it into piles. There's also a giant wave breaker around the In total, these islands took several years, But building these islands was only the start. As soon as they were finished, Dubai began inviting people to transform each island into Most of the islands were sold in the first Plans were made to turn North America and on Shanghai, to open a wellness center in But none of these plans have happened yet. As things stand, the World's islands are mostly There's a beach club on the island of Lebanon, construction work going on Antarctica and But apart from that, there's really not much A lot of it comes down to infrastructure. When these islands were first built, there cables and pipes. These were meant to provide water and electricity waste. But putting together this network of cables Developers on each island have had to rely and ship in water every morning. There was also meant to be a road connecting happened either. Overall, it makes it hard to build on these have never even started. en the islands have been washed away. And this isn't the only failed island project In 2005, they built four more giant artificial the project on hold, and a quarter of the They started working on these islands again tell whether this project actually goes anywhere. They also built another palm-shaped archipelago the Palm Jumeirah. Those artificial islands are technically finished, That project has been on hold for years, and soon. Just be glad you didn't buy any of these islands, But here's a question: if you did buy an build on it? Let us know in the comments below. And if you want to hear about some other useless Thank you for watching, and we will see you