Tim Ferriss: Hello, boys and girls, ladies and I'm happy because I get to have a conversation flyer on this podcast. For those of you who do not count them, 21 international bestsellers -- international bestsellers that have changed more. I'm going to add that on my addendum. and Seth's books include Tribes, Purple Cow, writes one of the most popular marketing blogs in I should say. And two of his TED Talks are founder of the altMBA, the Social Media Pioneer companies. So he's seen many chapters, many A New Manifesto for Teams. You can find all Seth, so nice to see you. this is a great excuse. I would rather cook Tim Ferriss: I will take you up on both. And for me at the moment. And you were very gracious to see an ophthalmologist for the first time in but I wasn't going there for any type of all the drops put into my eyes that I would be couldn't see anything within 12 inches of my face. to get the job done so I could at least call an and the net-net of it was, &quot;Your eyesight, like very good.&quot; At least my distance is 20/15, which 20/10. And I had I want to say a moment of it in front of me while my eyes were blurry and just so you know.&quot; So his bedside manner could to ask you how you think about or relate to Seth Godin: What a great place to start. I mean, listening to this were born. And when I started, World Wide Web. So the world keeps changing and stars in front of us keep changing and getting away. And so my analogy, my dad taught me to ski not very good at hockey. I hated getting hit. was a maniac. There were no helmets in those days, And when I was 16, I fell under the chair the whole way from the top to the bottom, face and ended up needing surgery on both. the second one was by the doctor for the US But when my kids came along, I taught them And then I realized when I hit like 35, &quot;You're that you're afraid and you're not going to get which is twice the work and half the speed. And skate skiing with Nordic skis. And I get to still lack of recall that I used to have where repeating myself to my inability to ski anymore, And to feel a sense of loss, to feel like we need But I guess after my first bout with COVID, it in the shoes of somebody who, at 62, gets to away from things I can't do anymore. And I'm really working hard and getting satisfaction And that just raises the stakes for things. And is because boomers, and I'm a little bit, driven our culture since the day I was born. really mattered. And when we were listening to And when people needed to make money for their And now boomers are dying. And so we are living in people with loud voices talking about the end of but it's not the end of the world. a few things to share on this subject. Tim Ferriss: My goodness, you just bought That put a salve on my existential crisis wound let me ask you, on a day-to-day, week-to-week long time as a, let's say, default optimistic. emotion-neutral, generally above-baseline person, focusing on noticing, dwelling is too strong a And in those cases, what do you do? I'm just what the self-talk looks like, anything like that? to interview Zig Ziglar. Seth Godin: Zig was my friend. He was one of away from Zig as someone who had gotten himself my career is the world is going to be whatever energetic attitude probably will make than girding yourself by being a pessimist So I find myself coming back frequently, there's been so much doom and gloom to this idea it's the only thing each of us truly gets to pick. is what you deserve. It just means that that which is how to process that. So that's not the But I would find myself in negative ruts I first started organizing The Carbon Almanac, that we have created was confronting me really Tim Ferriss: Speaking of response and choosing in such a way that makes things difficult, but about the several thousand things that we could Frankl. And would this be an opportune time? We Seth Godin: Sure. would this be an opportune time to invoke the Seth Godin: There are a few books that have been and Viktor Frankl's story, survival of four The thing is, a lot of people stop reading touch of his because the story is really powerful. and some people say that he was pioneers in the way we think about the mind. There There was Adler, who focused on status, dominance. And meaning, as far as I can tell from my limited finds a thing that means something to them, a everything in their life gets better. after he got out of the camp, 65 years, his work statistics I've read because he understood that but for many people, finding a path toward hope the struggle, but you get to decide what to do industrialized world has gotten more narcissistic, uncomfortable so that you will buy more stuff marketers are trying to push people And the problem with that, also in friends and with that is it doesn't scale. And after you've things doesn't seem to help you find more meaning. our culture, this moment in time, where people but I don't need to buy another thing. What I And I'll finish this with a two-parter about, My friend is in it, all volunteers. And the thing and flutists and oboists who get paid money to is saying, &quot;Why aren't I getting paid?&quot; Because pay to be there. And I'm guessing, with no data community orchestras, they probably index happier And so the question is, where are we going to year and a half, it was The Carbon Almanac. I world. I ran into a bunch of them yesterday money. None of us got paid. They're not doing up at the end of the day. They're doing it because It gives them a reason to put up with all Tim Ferriss: I think we should take a to provide a little bit of background, just a and then we can navigate from there. I've written 20 books. I wrote Permission email marketing, and I wrote a book called Purple up in the morning the way I used to saying should I write about now?&quot; I only write one when I read the magnificent Ministry for the Future by the way I saw the world. It was astonishing to me the climate. And I realized that I wasn't talking to the climate because I felt stupid. And the stupid, that they want us to be confused. I bet other people are too. And I used to make The People Magazine Celebrity Almanac. I But I realized A, it would take me too long opportunity. I downloaded Discourse, set and within a month we had 300 volunteers, And in 150 days, we built, edited, footnoted, book with no errors in it -- all as volunteers And the process of building it found solace which I incorporated in the new book about what And I also learned a lot, like plastic knew long ago about what was happening to the the concept was invented by Ogilvy and as a way of getting privileged people to feel like a hypocrite, maybe you won't speak up. find ourselves at a multi-pronged fork in the talk about building community, which is something hijack. I could try to coax and direct, but I to go. We could talk about creativity, trust, there that come to mind. AI, of course, on many the antidote to nihilism. And I want to marketers and corporations, I would like you come from the place of someone You come from a place of someone who has worn the it much more credibility than I would someone around in Berkeley who's never really worked spouting off about the evil corporations in the Illuminati. So that I want to establish. With that nihilism and addressing nihilism? and particularly among younger people, but I even people who are older than me, what appears to means anything. You can't sort true from false, We have deepfakes, misinformation, disinformation. And on top of that, it seems like the Titanic down. You can't really patch the hole. So is while she goes under? Or is there anything but not much of one. This is something that I seen and felt. And I would just love to know how myself similar to where you found yourself in a malaise. And some would say, &quot;Well, it's to do about it?&quot; And I would love to know what about it, aside from the putting together The time. Thank you for listening to my TED Talk. great question. And you should be driving I'm going to start by saying I'm a hypocrite and out that I'm more pure than other people because podcast, we have to put onto the table a very But that was true 50 years ago too. And there's a I'm not sure I'd say it's a great book. It's a Imagine that there's an asteroid a year and destroy and kill all of us. premise. And then it's a police procedural book in New Hampshire, because everybody else says, So marriages break up. Why would you go to have a year left to live? Supermarkets fall Because we're all going to die, maybe not going to be alive in a hundred years. Even some transfusions aren't going to be alive. Right? And a year or a hundred years? And when we look at there are going to be 10, 20, 30, 40 million of the Earth are going to become uninhabitable. Can we &quot;fix it&quot; and go back to, I don't should address? Definitely. But that doesn't So given that we're all going to die, the And for me, I think the key question coming at School a very long time ago is some people believe to enable humanity. And some people believe that business. And I think those people have too much Friedman just made up this nonsense about the its profit. It lets people off the hook and they So if we think about Amazon, Amazon has had 30 percent of all the people they hired across The data that I quote in the book is that a third of their total profit because of turnover. there to work in a warehouse, and more than half United States happened at an Amazon warehouse They say your job is to beat the numbers on and then beat them again tomorrow. It's Frederick around -- the expression jerking people around because Frederick Taylor and Henry Ford used And a visitor to the Ford plant said, &quot;It looks jerking from left to right with strings pulling And when we think about tomorrow or the tomorrow we still live in culture, we still have this of miles apart, we have access to every piece can understand us and talk back. We can reach out need to hear from us. And if you want to just give 20 years, that's your choice. But given that we've our focus on humanity and connection and and maybe not worry so much about public being brutal in the service of profit. we have a meaning shortage. listening do? You could personalize this to me it seems to be a perennial subject for me. What it is not my path, or I don't have the a climate activist. Not to say that's what you're the light and not part of the dark, so to speak? -- sorry, let me let that -- so in a second, I want So I surveyed 10,000 people and I said, And I gave people 14 choices about what made it me a lot of money or I didn't have to work very which country people came from, no matter how more than I thought I could. People treated If we feel significance, we start to feel to feel human. Where does significance come Can you be really clear about the change you seek So when I think about climate, most of the people &quot;Well, I'm doing fine. I recycle this, I compost the carbon footprint. There is nothing you can do world, to fix the climate. But what you can do get five or 10 people together, you can probably And that will have 50 times the impact of you of banding together with five or 10 or 15 other to find something to care about and succeed at But leaving the climate aside for a minute, when who we work with, whether we're in a community you and the change you seek to make? Or So I'm doing a talk for Harvard. And And I told them and they renamed it, which I Feel Significant,&quot; as if it's some sort of hand And that's not my point. My point is, we built all so we can actually point to what we made. first breakthrough book for Tim Ferriss: Last breakthrough Seth Godin: The 4-Hour Workweek? was 2007. So let's call it 15 years ago. you said to people, to a lot is that you as an individual have access to tools system that can do the grunt work, so that you can And that opened the door for what so However, there's still all this pressure to work on Upwork, the race is to be the fastest, cheapest person, you're just a Mechanical cares about you because the minute someone's And what we're looking for is to find where our work is something we can point I made this. I made this for you. Can you please our days are totally different than when take over our job for free as soon as the boss can Tim Ferriss: So let's just say, you came across through, doesn't have to be the 25-year-old current day version of you, would you help that Seth to do this? for a long time. I'm very proud that there's a And I don't have any official mentorships. because it just doesn't scale and it Tim Ferriss: Yeah, this is Seth Godin: But I need to say it, because exercises and then they send me notes. The Subreddit, &quot;Seth's Mentees.&quot; for me to be able to be a mentee without showing When someone sends me a note saying, &quot;I'm 25 years job? Where do I train?&quot; My answer is, &quot;You do it you care about and go raise $10,000 for them. sell it on eBay for a $100. Go figure out how to And if you're a receptionist at an same thing. You can figure out how to take that their way out, and make them feel 10 percent interacting with them. Not because it's in the you see a way to connect to another person. If you And that is the breakthrough that industrialists public school so we would say, &quot;Will this be get picked?&quot; And all three of those things &quot;Is there a human somewhere connected to you in a way that makes things better for them, at That's what culture is. That's what That is what fills people with meaning. And you sending me an email saying, &quot;Seth, what's your somehow we've built this sense of mutual hustling. And hustling doesn't work anymore till the AI spam shows up. The AI spam is going to effective until you end up not even trusting that. I agree with you. I mean honestly, I'm just Tim Ferriss: But if people are listening create meaning, do human work, not succumb replaceable by the next fastest, cheapest fill in you have any other guidelines besides get or any other reasons to be optimistic? not level the scales a little bit. But I feel or a prerequisite in a sense. Seth Godin: Okay, so -- a note on paper. You said, &quot;I think we're going to Seth Godin: We're going to come back to the Tim Ferriss: Okay. possible that you work in a place where you significance. If that is actually true, you should My guess: it is not actually true. My guess is you And so go start a book club at work. Start other people. And so get on the customer answer three questions. And so figure out how in a way that is not part of &quot;your job&quot; You can do those things without getting fired. an old folks' home and the person, the witness, away. So do you think that that's going to be the one thing that she was staying alive for think it makes more sense to be a bridezilla wedding industrial complex and everything So in all these elements of our life, we are profitable way, the way where we are blameless. So now the bees, if you don't mind. Seth Godin: I am fascinated by the bees. So the tell, but I have been hoping to share it with you. I've got to note I don't fly for work anymore after working on the climate thing. I feel like I in-person speeches, I've earned the right to say, But I needed to get somewhere for family reasons. reasons, I have built a firm that's remote. I'm who's 10, was born with some health problems. And in having the most magical life that she can. And My venture firm funds, they're all in regenerative from a commercial point of view. Will you And I happened to be somewhere near there. So I showed up to do this two-day workshop. Well, the to be there in person because my daughter's not So the person I ended up running it with is talking to me about the bees, and he told me the And The Song of Increase is just such a great A typical hive, not the big honey hive. We but a typical feral beehive at the end of a long what the honey's for, to supply them with food made it, the council of maidens will meet. and they will do a couple things. The first thing instruct the queen to lay and fertilize a queen one queen in a hive. And the second thing they as much pollen as they possibly can and replenish in the Northern Hemisphere. the hive will -- this is 20,000 bees, will be based on the weather, because they know what the They will organize without an organizer, leave hive in a 10-minute period of time. They will leap Jacqueline has written beautifully about this. in a tight ball, because bees have to or else they fall apart. They get into a torpor. place to live. And each one of the bees is doing the queen, is only three weeks old, which I didn't so the scout bees are doing their scouting and doing their thing. But the hive is basically a working in sync to create this leap forward. transfixed by what the song of increase could mean and we're looking for something with even more So I ended up driving then really far, hundreds next morning I went for a swim with all this, And there was, as someone who swims almost and I came as close to drowning as And as it happened, I was pretty okay with I would miss my family. I would miss &quot;Well, if that's the end of that, that's the about significance just flooded over me and I And then the next day I heard from Dan And the combination of all those things helped me realize that the world probably doesn't but probably could benefit from thinking about all so much more power than we want to acknowledge. That is more personal than most stories you've would love to hear what happened after that next week or two look like for you or feel like Maybe it was beyond a seed of significance and communication, with your thinking. Seth Godin: Right? It's funny. It's funny but it fits right into the question you asked I wrote a whole book in two weeks. I said, &quot;How How can I honor all of the people who are being How can I honor the climate refugees? How can by doing the thing that some people for Frankie that would be better than this?&quot; a book, as you know, is more of a lift than is blog posts, but having people see you do this have something important to say and that Tim Ferriss: I'm going to throw out a few terms. can go down whichever path you choose. Or option option C when people say, &quot;You can choose between or Quakers. Where would you like to go? learned something fascinating about the Quakers. And when we think of Quakers, non-violent, word penitentiary, right? It's where And the idea of solitary confinement was to create their sins and to repent from them. they built the panopticon, which was a prison this is super low tech. You just put the the windows are all lined up. So everyone When we add solitary confinement to the capitalism. We end up with this idea, not the surveilled, which is what that book is about, that we isolate them from each other, except was designed to make sure they weren't picking counting their keystrokes and measuring constant surveillance. And for many people, Well, why are we surprised that turnover is stripped meaning from people when they go to work them to be resources. And that's why the very because after you've optimized the machines, the people. And we are, there's the whole measured your bike with Strava, but that's happening Tim Ferriss: So let's just say you are the founder solo operation or a husband-and-wife created something that people want or need and And you have the best of intentions. You believe that husband-and-wife team are listening to Maybe they're in a fast-growing bakery -- who They have the tiger by the tail. They're for under-performance, because a lot of would you talk to those people? Because I want to value my employees as humans, not pretty tight margins. We're attempting to grow our employees to really perform at the highest we do need to let them go or replace them.&quot; an aside in a minute in my old voice about small company. But before we do that, I want soft to replace hard.&quot; I'm not here to say that In fact, I'm talking about the opposite. by Cesar Chavez or what could be built by The to do with soft or hard. It has to do with the and you need to have a lot of rigor where but you are not criticizing the worker. You earn That the original Mac was built by 13 people anybody in Silicon Valley has ever worked before if you talk to Susan years and years and years but she's great. She will talk about it right? Because they got something done. freelancers and scale. Freelancing is magic. I between, I was an entrepreneur. They are different the thing and it has their name or something like What you need to do is strip away the busy do is get better clients, because better But what usually happens when a freelancer of themselves and try to push those people to for less money than they get paid and then pass it almost never works. And so if you really are I would say, tell me this thing you were more for it because you added human value. you've got trouble. Even Walmart can't out-Amazon So what we see is if someone is going to build a bakery, or a wedding services business, or racing to the top. By saying, there are people But do not expect that you're also going to get other places, because you can't have everything. and your employees can see their contribution trouble at all, getting your employees to do conditions for better. You didn't try to manage Tim Ferriss: So let me take a step off the on the side for a second, because this but I'll ask it anyway since I guess this I get to have conversations with people I like now. I would say I think that's a fair way to put and I consider you very good at being aware of applied to your life, choosing the rules, past a certain point, past the requirements, past choose a story you can be happy with, et cetera. me where you're like, &quot;It's funny, Tim has this all the time and he can't seem to see it when he between those two teeth and it bothers him. He it loose.&quot; This is a very long-winded way of or issues that you seem come up repeatedly Seth Godin: I was completely wrong about my first based it on people who didn't understand what you hustled by people who said that you were the didn't bother to spend the time to understand what on me. And you have developed a voice and a faster and at a younger age than almost anybody And I don't see any spinach in your teeth. I ago that you would be having conversations platform and leverage you have But at the same time when the opportunities have &quot;No, I don't want to be a judge on Shark out how to hustle people to pay me on to narrate here for people, whether or not I And it's not easy to do that regularly at the out. So I know you weren't fishing for me to say in private, in my head for the first nine months Tim Ferriss: I appreciate that, Seth, and I And the context is, when we have dinner it's always on the East Coast, because you're I ask you for a lot of advice and you're very many questions, which I really deeply appreciate. thanks for the very kind words. I love doing there's absolutely no way I ever could have absolutely not. And I think probably four or I will have the same statement for &quot;There's I would be doing that five years from now.&quot; parents who have a sticker on the back of their their kids to do the same thing. To say, &quot;Oh, going to be a mechanical engineer for the next what humans are capable of. What a joy to be able doing in five years.&quot; What a privilege that is. Seth Godin: Can we talk about Tim Ferriss: Let's talk about false Seth Godin: Okay, so people might be wondering laser cutter in my basement. Doesn't everybody? cards. And so instead of having notes or them. So that's what the wooden tiles are. And so proxies.&quot; We need proxies when we go shopping at ketchup, you're not allowed to taste the ketchup bottle is a proxy for what's inside of it. And out we haven't had this particular flavor of salad clues that it's going to be good or not good. go to, and proxies to figure out what book to until after you buy it. Judging a book by its At work we developed proxies because we have before they work for us. So one proxy is, &quot;Did &quot;Are there any typos on your resume?&quot; One proxy unless you're hiring someone to be an interviewer, And yeah, the thing about false proxies is they to prejudice, to misogyny, because we are quickly based on clues that aren't actually related If someone is in a wheelchair, they or not they're in a wheelchair is irrelevant it's 2023 and it's still happening. So there's where we can look at the work instead of looking I've been lucky enough to adopt, is I won't work And that means I will pay someone to do a short job or not. But if they're good at the project because they did the project. And with all with the rate of change that's going on, with they learned at school, because they can look What we need are people who are resilient, and connected, and loyal, and all these other words use when we decide who to hire, who to let into an So I think it's important to just name it, expensive. They get in the way of our output and culture, because when a proxy becomes important, of the doubt, what we've done is we've handed this Tim Ferriss: Did I hear you correctly, expand on this a bit, that you only work with that correctly or was that a different line? do a project, the old way to do viable people, pick the one who has the shiniest And I have hired hundreds of people that way. And And then I thought about it and I realized I just the people I didn't hire, because they didn't And what I learned, particularly working on The Everyone got the keys, take the car for a drive, we asked you to do more. And if you different, because the work was the point. software pilot thing and I went to people who I've not based on where they live. One lived in Portland. &quot;I've seen your work. I don't know you proxy, but it doesn't usually match. So let's once we can say to the world, &quot;I'm looking for the world, this project is this size and I'm use our human judgment to decide who to offer the this one-hour, one-week project, pay them whether it's useful. This is exactly the way reading and writing culture where if you're more stuff. But there's no points for being Tim Ferriss: Yeah, no one, definitely with Matt, do have to do some customer service, which Even if you're C-suite, you get to spend a Question for you about employee retention, personal experience. You've hired many to the writing or the principles in The Song because hiring is one thing, retaining is And there are people out there, I know quite a few to hire really good people, but they haven't thoroughly, as effectively, think about retention. What have you found to be, in your some of the key ingredients or possible approaches to ensuring that you retain high performers? the purpose of a company town is if you are the That the goal of the old school industrialist because if they have no options, you Let's compare that to an ad agency. I read Luke's in London. There were 30 people, they bunch of awards as an ad agency, what happens which means you have to hire more people, which enough to, you've exhausted and you sell out And the 30 of them looked at each other So they made a rule and the rule is &quot;We're never to their clients, &quot;That means we can't take So they have a waiting list of clients and go to your old clients with your best you can say 'You're fired,' because I've And it also means that if you are only going to let them leave.&quot; There's a waiting Turnover is a good thing when we are And what I would do if I was running the first thing you've got to do on your first to date. And we're going to have a resume job want you to stay here because you can't get the conditions we've created, the work we And then I would listen. If I'm not creating be dancing with want to stay, I have to change the And this permeability is where the future lies. four-month careers or three-year careers. So somebody, &quot;Read everything in Slack, come it's all there.&quot; So now instead of onboarding three hours. And because we're project-oriented, somebody here for a long time, it's because they Mahan Khalsa has written a book called Let's Get the lesson of Let's Get Real or Let's Not Play this week? Promises about your career, promises Show us your work. We will relentlessly make it other. If this is the right place for you, I hope you, I hope we can agree that it's not, but So let me just elaborate on this book, because business-to-business selling expensive, large organizations can now find out everything So the intelligent, trained, expensive salesperson day, &quot;Look, you've told me you have this big assembly line that's letting you down, blah you ready to install our system? Because if it's won't waste yours. You're not going to buy from me You're not going to buy from me because our RFP is want my valuable time? I'm going to engage with truth. You're going to draw your org chart for me. you've bought and why your company bought them. you how to buy the thing that's going to save your That kind of selling is how you sell a $10 million pretending you know their favorite color. Long ago in a former life when I had a was selling to CEOs and CTOs and you do not sell color or even having that conversation. In The topic of sales makes me think of Zig own personal curiosity, were there things that maybe you respected his position or a embrace whatever it was that he used as part people. Is there anything that you disagreed on? friends. So it's funny, Zig has come up which is weird. I sent a picture of him holding Zig was my teacher from afar for a long time. listened to the selling tapes until they wore out. person a bunch of times and each time wrote him and my letter would highlight the things that one of the highlights of my speaking career was people. It was pretty cool. And then I got to Zig and I disagreed about astrology from a different cultural point of view from &quot;Okay, we can disagree about stuff like that and interesting is when my understanding of permission you can get everything in life you want if you'll kept coming up, because he meant it two ways and &quot;You can get everything in life you want if you a way of encouraging self-interested, short-term was to do a favor for someone else because that And what shifted for me over time was how and you can help other people get what they That what we have is the chance to hold not because we want them to give us something door is, in itself, a significant useful And we talked about it a little bit toward the folks is help them become professional instead living the life of the professional speaker, and I listened to a bunch of Zig, yes, it's dated, but Tim Ferriss: Where would you suggest people Because the universe of Zig, as you mentioned, suggest they start? What should they look for? Closing the Sale are gold. I could tell And his original classic See You at When I was starting out, I failed for seven years which you can still get today on CD, also super dated even then, but so cheesy and a day, you can't help but not quit. in time. What were you failing at over these audio cassettes and wore them out? at a software company in Boston. I worked Bradbury. I was a brand manager. I was 24 years moved to New York and started my own gig and Conley and I did our first book together and then every day I opened the mailbox and three people name on it and put a stamp on it saying, &quot;We don't And it's very easy in the face that, and then I often in a way that amused me but was selfish. pitched. I wasn't calling people up on the phone at Simon and Schuster, whatever it was. But when a way to keep caring, but understand that what it's super easy to give up. And that was the like this idea. It's not that you didn't like the idea so that the next one will be better? quite happy to have solo time, engage in solo or something else like building canoes. That How are you building? Are you building a community forward in the short term to doing that? Or I And if so, how are you approaching it? Because and this is not a brilliant insight, existential dread and mitigate some they simply have some type of shared purpose How are you thinking about that for yourself? broaden this to everybody. So the reputation I had never go over budget, and I'm going to deliver And no one who has worked for me has ever been because it wasn't a good fit. But I've never said, shut down Squidoo in one day with no my eight coworkers and I all went down together. So that's good and it's bad. It means that might create the possibility that the big I can live with the confidence of knowing So when I think about what am I going I think very hard about who am I promising say to people what I used to say, which is &quot;We're I will be on stage answering questions. And by one volunteer and I'm going to serve you lunch.&quot; come. It was thrilling to stand there for seven announced I was going to do that, I could sell I don't want to do that because I don't want to, try to regain my ability to ski at do. So where is that sense of community? The but there's going to be another one. And I or whether this future you and I have been be in person because I'm very comfortable engaging And most of all, is it worth doing for others? Tim Ferriss: Seth, what else would you like directions. What else do you have on here -- Tim Ferriss: -- on your wooden tiles. story of the piano cover at the B conference, and Tim Ferriss: Sounds great. stage in front of these entrepreneurs, all of whom all of whom are young whippersnappers who no slides or anything. I'm just there at this or Booneville or something. And -- or somewhere else? I haven't been to Australia in a long time. This I need some anecdote to get started. And off to covers. Can you visualize that? Seth Godin: They have those special custom is one of those little metal things that And on top of that is the sign, but I can't going to be my shtick, which is, &quot;Did you ever a sign on top of that?&quot; And on the sign that piano&quot; -- not an original, the original from 1884. &quot;The folks who built that Steinway in it would be working, it would be creating magic, &quot;There's no guarantee that what we do is going it might be, we could say this thing we're doing money as we can? Or how do we get written up well And there are lots of kinds of important, it important a century from now. But this idea that Tim Ferriss: I love that. The piano cover, an experience just to be able to touch Seth Godin: Yeah. Seth Godin: Meetings. I have been obsessed a different path for meetings. wrote a script that deleted every group meeting and then the next day sent an email to everyone your day.&quot; Because if you have 10,000 employees, we're talking about tens of millions of we're talking about the innovating brain because they couldn't care enough to or couldn't care enough to just record a 10-minute times as they wanted, slower, faster, read And Tobi said, &quot;If you really need the meeting, welcome.&quot; And what meetings have become. So geography when it comes to being able to connect they eliminated time, they're asynchronous. And we're going to have everyone get and I can take attendance based on you sitting hate this. It's one of the things they hate the authority, status, and control. So conversations never. You can have conversations all day. You conversation, talk to this person or that person. and there are answers. People are talking to a meeting is a delivery of information for And I think it is possible. I know it is whole time we built The Carbon Almanac. There &quot;This is what's up. Watch it if you want to.&quot; But a meeting wouldn't have made any sense. We had you can come ask questions,&quot; but I didn't do future of the resilient organization is a which is how do we build this asynchronous depend on me making stuff up while I'm on camera. not have caught his name before, Matt Mullenweg times, and he also has been part of a podcast. called Distributed. I may be getting the name organizations in unorthodox ways of approaching meetings or lack thereof, different means distributed first for a very, very, very long albeit coincidentally for everything Seth Godin: Well, but coincidentally, seen what his team has built with ChatGPT Tim Ferriss: I don't know if it's but yeah. Is it public? I don't know. talking, so we're allowed to talk. go for it. So if you want to talk -- the single best use I have seen of ChatGPT or way where it's not just a talking llama, Tim Ferriss: Yeah, yeah, for sure. They that'll be the teaser. The teaser for people. Tim Ferriss: There's good things to come. Right. South Dakota. Oh, Seth, is there anything else Seth Godin: Your listeners love tips. I've got lot of people. And then we'll do the magical wrap thinking, and we knew there was going to be page copy, edited, illustrated type, set, footnoted. how to make page 19. And so we said to the team, We know that it will come from this group, but we so what should we do?&quot; And the answer is someone &quot;Please make this better.&quot; And then someone else that and someone else will illustrate that. without one saying, &quot;The person who worked on it I've always had page 19 thinking, I didn't need felt the freedom to now speak up and contribute if you think about it, that's Apple, that's Ford. did not program the Google you are using today. It someone and someone and someone and someone, when Tim Ferriss: And is the way to look for by lowering your expectations in a sense so Is this applicable to a solo shop or a very small what it could mean, to embrace that? It doesn't need the pressure off. It puts the donna who says, &quot;Ah, I don't, I'm afraid someone's to say, &quot;My nose is not involved.&quot; Right? And I made me smile. He offered -- folks, for people who don't know. he offered to straighten it out. And as you once you understand that you live in a page 19 that can generously be criticized. Don't ship for the thing you're noodling on to become it until it's perfect. It happens by you So now you're on the hook. Fish don't like to Tim Ferriss: I love it. And I was thinking since we last spoke, been writing fiction Ursula K. Le Guin, but I'm, I'm happy with it. I found exactly what I think will be most helpful perfect is not the enemy of good, but that and actually having people review my work. How do I know a tangent, but if you reach out to something you've put together, how do you Seth Godin: Three words, and then criticism, feedback, and advice. I'm terrible at Tim Ferriss: You're terrible at receiving it. people. Yeah, no problem. But Good feedback is precious. But advice, advice on the side of the other human helping them there is line editing, copyediting, developmental same thing. Proofreading means did the changes So proofreading is sort of trivial. Copyediting Copyediting says, &quot;I don't like the Line editing says this sentence would be the first half that I'm going to smooth your I read your work. Let's just talk in general could be made better in a different way. So Penguin mostly because her developmental She says &quot;The title of the book is wrong and you What's that worth? That's spectacular. But before I send her a book, I send it to a paid copy And for $1,000, he copyedits the book. So but he fixes every one of the little things. this guy's so good at all the detail.&quot; No, exists because I send it to him before I send people who think that the most important thing the third line. This is not helpful. This work is a file and someone will fix it for you. But need to find someone who has that as a skill. thing with logos -- don't show anybody your name before they're born, because everyone but no one's got expertise. It's none of their same thing's true with your kid's name. And they're going to give you logo advice. It's the people who the book is for, watch what they do after Permission Marketing, hearing people say them taught me how to write the next book because better?&quot; I just said, &quot;I wrote this book,&quot; and Tim Ferriss: Right? By extension, the Zig overall story word for word and be like, &quot;Okay, and maybe I'll give him an extra overall story in the next book.&quot; for a fact that that's exactly what Zig did. Significance, subtitle, A New Manifesto for Teams. Is there anything else you would like to of my audience? Any complaints you'd like to else you would like to say before we wrap up? that I get to do this, and I am feeling replacing the small minded scarcity that was way through one thing after another over the last hopefully come out of this worldwide pandemic, contribution and generosity. And all I can tell for the people who support my work, just making Tim Ferriss: Thank you. Thank you so much, Seth. that we discussed in the show notes and where you can find this and show notes on just to be a bit nicer than is necessary to a bit better. Have that extra conversation. Say have to be huge. Probably shouldn't be huge, covered previous episodes. Make it small, make it