She hasn't eaten for three days. Fellow villagers See? This stinky doctor Collusion with the Thief Hu Fei I got caught If any of you knew The whereabouts of those two bastards Tell me, Master There are many rewards But if you know but don't report it This is also the outcome Your Feng family relies on your wealth and power Bullying men and women, causing harm to the people Foshan people Who hasn't been bullied by you? God has eyes You will get your comeuppance You old thing You dare to spit on me Aren't you looking for me? I am coming Catch her for me Girl, please go away Go tell the Feng family father and son Release Zhong Sisao immediately Otherwise I will bloodbath Foshan Town Kill all of you scum The five tigers of Cui family in Luanshitan are waiting for you I thought it was some kind of person with three heads and six arms. It turned out to be a hairy boy Hu and several people have no grudges in the past and no enmity in the present I just want to settle accounts with Feng Tiannan Don't want to hurt innocent people A big mouth You can hurt our brothers. Don't talk nonsense with him. Take him to see Master Feng His head is worth 10,000 taels of silver. Kill him Now Do you have any hostages? Give me Get out of my way She is mine Unexpected You actually practiced the Divine Dragon Whip to such a level. Even the world-famous male and female evil spirits Are willing to be Feng family's running dogs This really opened my eyes. Ignorant Junior It's not your turn to teach me a lesson. Come on, kill her. Sir, there's an accident on the street. The other guy also came in. You're here at the right time. I'm afraid he won't come. Sir, please don't go any further. Please show some mercy, hero. Please Don't go any further. Hero, go back, hero. Go back Hero, you will bring trouble to us. Master Feng has something to say If I let you pass He's going to burn our house down. Kill our family Yes, hero, please go away. Hero, please Let's go You can just walk away. Our wives and children are all here. You have to think about us. Yes, hero, please go away. Please We really have no choice. Run run Run Run father This brat is not dead yet This kid is still excited How come you are here? You can come, but I can't. Your family opened it in Foshan Didn't I ask you to go to Vedic Gate? You think you can hide your tricks from me? I just don't want to expose you in person. But your legs My legs are already healed. Help me Are you okay? show off You thought this was a hero. You are crying thief You will be left disabled Then I can only marry you. Let you take care of me forever Wishful thinking You haven't told me your name yet. I'll tell you if I can survive. If I were to die today I will die before you. Folks, call me. One punch, ten taels of silver Beat him to death Feng Reward him 10,000 taels Ten thousand taels, ten thousand taels So much money Kill them, they are good people, that's it Kill them, right? Master Feng, please show me mercy. Let Master Feng show some mercy. Are you all deaf? They are good people, Master Feng He's a good person. I don't even want the money I give you for free Or you I want to die with both of them. Folks Will be punished Feng Tiannan, you bastard If you have anything, come to me. The surname Hu Death is approaching Why are you trying to be a hero? Just save some time I fell into Feng's hands today. I want to survive. Unless you kill them all. You haven't fought yet. today Who doesn't take action? Just against my Feng family Who is the accomplice of these two thieves? By then Don't blame me, Master. Turn your back on someone Can't fight They are good people They are not bad people, they are good people. They are not bad people, they are good people They are good people You can't hit them. They are good people. You can't hit good people. You little bastard Come on, catch him. Let him fight first Otherwise, I will bury you alive today. Can't fight Can't do it. Then you can't do it. Can't do it, right? father Everyone If you want to fight Come to me How miserable is Zhong Sisao's family? You all saw it too No fear, no fear This girl It's also to stand up for you. I was injured like this Can you really do it? Even if you want Working like a slave for Feng Tiannan But you really have to do it for him To be an accomplice to the evil Aid the tyrant? He is a good man, you can't kill him. He is a good man, he can't kill them. Little Bunny You are so rebellious, they are good people Can't kill them, give me don't want Son stop You're in big trouble. What's wrong with me, Dad? These scoundrels They are so rebellious Drive the Feng family out of Foshan Oops Dad, hurry up These poor devils rebelled. I'll get some more silver. Let's run! Drive out of Foshan Get them out, get them out What time is it? Saving your life is important. It seems we can't stay in Foshan any longer. Walk Go out the back door Here, here, here Someone's a dad, what to do? Go block the door, go quickly This side father This is a dog hole. Go, go fast Go, go Go! The troublemakers are coming, Dad, let's go! hurry up Dad, Dad Look, what should I do? Dad, where are we going? son Keep the green mountains No need to worry about firewood Gone But, Dad Let's go Go fast Brother The Buddhist beads that Master left for you How did it end up on Mr. He? Stop talking nonsense to me If you don't agree See you in Kung Fu OK Dear heroes, Fellow Disciple Two adults from the capital This has been There is no first in literature, and no second in martial arts Today, I would like to trouble you all to bear witness I am here to discuss with Brother Sun Whoever wins Who is the new leader of the Vedic sect? This boss just died. Now let's fight for the position of leader. That's great. The person with high martial arts skills will succeed as the leader Even at the World Leaders Conference It also helps the Weituo Sect to become famous in the world. Famous all over the world The two of them competed in front of Mr. Wan's spirit His spirit in heaven is a witness. It can be regarded as a good story in the martial arts world. Big Brother Why make a fuss at this time? Can you listen to my advice? What are you two whispering about? Third Junior Brother Could it be that you also have ideas about the position of the head? Then let's talk about martial arts I'm afraid you won't be able to Come, let's compare Come Two brothers Which of you two will come first? Third Junior Brother, I'm grateful. The funeral hall becomes a martial arts arena This Vedic Gate It's true that each generation is inferior to the previous one. Oops They want to compete to choose the leader When will this fight end? No matter It seems that I am the only one who can snatch this leader away Only then can Hu Fei be saved Vedic swordsmanship Where is this abscess? You two should stop embarrassing yourself here. So as not to tarnish the Master's reputation. Here comes another girl Now it's getting more interesting Look at this girl using the silver whip I'm afraid his martial arts skills are quite high. Fight The harder the fight The happier Fu Dashuai is. Master Your three disciples are too unfilial. You just left They are brothers fighting against each other Still fighting in front of the coffin Disturbing your peace today I'll teach them a lesson for you. Who are you? This girl Our sect is standing in front of the spirit of our master. Select the leader If you are here to pay your respects Please take a seat and watch the ceremony If you're here to cause trouble Don't blame us for being rude. Since Master Wuxiang Founded the Shaolin Vedic School This Wei Tuo Sect is in the martial arts world. It has always been a famous sect. But if I choose one of you three unfilial people Select the leader Wouldn't that mean that he has fallen into the trap of Master Wuxiang? And the reputation of our ancestors Girl, who are you? My name is Yuan Ziyi To talk about the origin I am also the direct disciple of Master Wan. nonsense When will my master Accept you as my female disciple How come we don't know Master, He Was a Hero Throughout His Life Countless disciples He has been traveling abroad for ten years. I was at that time Accepted by the master To elaborate I am also your senior sister. What nonsense are you talking about? Good good good Miss Yuan Even if what you said is true But who can prove it for you? Master passed on all his best martial arts to me Isn't this proof? Junior Brother The move that Senior Brother Sun used just now, Guan Ping Xian Yin Even if you don't have time to dodge with the golden lock Phoenix Vortex You should have learned it. Stop talking nonsense Then let me learn some tricks from you girl. please Girl, watch out. Guan Ping presented the seal Phoenix Vortex Guan Ping presents the seal and returns it to you Guan Ping presented the seal It's not a killing move that you can just stand still and accumulate strength At any time Can use any of the six sword techniques This is the true understanding of it. How about it I use Authentic Vedic Kung Fu Look at the martial arts It is indeed the Liuhe sword technique I just don't know why the girl came. Why ask? Since you guys want to compete for the leader Then I will naturally come to fight for it Little Girl Knowing a few Liuhe sword techniques will allow you to do whatever you want You are too overconfident. I don't have that much time to play with you. If you don't agree, then fight. good Bring me a gun good Then I'll let you see it. What is the real Liuhe gun method? Uncle Uncle Just tell me the truth This Master Did you ever accept this female apprentice? The tricks are from our school But the inner strength method is not right Uncle, you really should take action. This little girl is not simple Can be put away freely Practice the Liuhe spear to this level It's really hard to guard against. Beauty Needlework The four barbarians are submissive Master The master uncle and the third uncle both lost Now it's up to you This knife and gun can't compare with her. The only way to compare is the bare ass punch. This naked fist But our Vedic sect's virgin skills The emphasis is on close combat This is what we did when we were little. Boxing as the basis of martial arts What are you mumbling about? You're the only one left I see Miss Yuan Born exquisitely beautiful This sword and gun wielding In case of any mishap I can't afford it. It seems that you want to compete with me That's what I meant I want to ask the girl for a set of naked butt punches good please Despicable Shame So shameless How did the Vedic sect come out? You are such a shameless person. This naked fist It was originally close combat Grasping and acupuncture skills Where does the shameless talk come from? Miss Yuan, if you think it's inappropriate Just admit defeat Shameless I will take the place of Master Teach you a lesson This girl came with a patient. Dissatisfied Who else is dissatisfied I Who are you My surname is Liu Name is Liu Hezhen The name of the twin cranes of Skanda Have you heard of Why, I haven't heard of it. Yeah, I'm kind of lazy. Too lazy to take apprentices Too lazy to go out and travel People in the Jianghu Most of them don't know me very well. But even you don't know My junior brother Wan and I are collectively known as the Weituo Twin Cranes How could he be the disciple of Senior Brother Wan? Yes or No It's not up to you. Everyone saw it I use the Kung Fu of Vedic sect. This can't be fake. It's you Stand up now Could it be Do you also want to compete for the position of leader? joke I want to be the head of the sect Thirty years ago, I don't want to suffer this today. Just You Today I pretend to be my disciple Wan Injured my Vedic Gate Hurt my Vedic disciples Even if I am too lazy to meddle in other people's business You have to take care of it too. Stop talking nonsense Vedic martial arts, you can choose Even if we compete in the Bare Butt Punch I will accompany you to the end Let you feel it too The consequences of shamelessness girl If you want to choose, choose the Wei Tuo Sect's gate-guarding skills I'm afraid you won't. This sect has more skills Which one to practice? Can be unrivaled in martial arts Then you tell me What is the sect's main martial arts? Our martial arts are profound and extensive Practice to the highest level Even the most common moves Can also dominate the world Liuhe swordsmanship is also good Liuhe Gun Technique Which one is not the town's kung fu? The little girl has really sharp teeth. I won't argue with you verbally. Tell you The sect's key skills It is the Tiangang Plum Blossom Pile Have you practiced? In martial arts The more plain The more useful What is plum blossom pile, knife tip formation? It's just some fancy tricks. but I won't compete with you. I'm sorry you're not convinced Where are the plum blossom piles placed? good Have courage Visitors Get the bowl Who lands first? Or the bowl under your feet breaks Even if someone loses Get started It seems That girl doesn't know what Tiangang Plum Blossom Pillar is The master walked on it like flying Every attack The girl looked at the bowl under her feet Just based on this She's doomed. See? She just relies on her lightness skills I can still deal with my uncle It won't take a moment. She would be forced into a corner by her uncle As soon as your feet touch the ground She lost. The competition of inner strength begins No matter how good her martial arts skills are, it's useless. Her inner strength I can never catch up with my uncle. Who is the girl? What is the intention Don't tell the truth anymore Don't blame the old man for being merciless. Why is Senior Liu working so hard? I am really the master's apprentice This is the token my master left me. Senior, I'm sorry. Uncle She is not a disciple of our sect at all. Please don't let her fool you. Yes, Uncle She came to ask for medicine for this boy. How could she be a member of our Vedic sect? She was just outside the door Begging the gatekeepers? Uncle She wants to get the treasure of our sect. Epiphyllum Jade Dew Frost You can't forgive her. She is here to compete for the position of leader of our sect. Uncle Visitors You're caught! Otherwise I'll kill your friend. Wait a minute Miss Yuan Forgive my poor eyesight Your kung fu is indeed from our school. It seems that you have inherited the true teachings of Brother Wan. Back then, my junior brother Wan came back from his travels Once told me He is in Tianshan Accepted a talented female disciple He also gave her the Epiphyllum Jade Plate That girl It's you. good The Yangtze River's waves behind push forward the waves ahead I am Vedic I'm glad to have an heir like you. I am very pleased Junior Brother Wan, I wonder if you know this in the afterlife. I can also feel at ease Uncle, what are you saying? Uncle Shut up You guys are not as skilled as others. Not only did he lose his kung fu, but he also lost his character. Why don't you come with me to meet the new leader? Vedic Gate Liu Hezhen Meet the Master Mr. Liu, Listen to me I'll explain it to you later. Vedic Gate Liu Hezhen Meet the new boss Meet the new boss Meet the new boss parking Follow me You two are in the same group. Master Feng We caught a big fish today. Come together Go in and hide. Yiming Sister, protecting the children is important. Go fast Son Yiming Catch Her Junior Sister Go fast Son Son Tie her up for me. etc. Who is this person? Where did you catch it? Three Brothers this The murderer who kidnapped the two young princes That's her Don't move well Brother Tang, Boss Feng has worked hard. I'll take her to see the adults now. etc. Wait, wait this Last time, something happened in the adults' house. The adults scolded us like a dog's blood spraying out of our heads What if she runs away this time? What goes wrong again? I can't bear it. What do you mean? I can't trust our brothers. No, no, no My son lost his life because of her. I have to take her to see the adults today. In this case please Walk Walk adult What about the children? Incompetent subordinates Met two little brothers But failed to rescue Just catch this woman Kneel down Kneel down She is the disciple of Bai Xiao Shen Ni adult My son Yiming saved the two little brothers Death Adults have to make the decision. Please give the order immediately. Go to the headmaster's courtyard Catch the Hundred-Knowing God And her other apprentice Visitors Don't be afraid, little brothers. Protecting adults Come, come to Ama Let Ama see it. Are you injured? No Amitabha Two little brothers died in disaster Will be able to turn misfortune into fortune adult Bring the two little brothers back. You must take good care of it yes Shenni Please stay I have something to say Tell Ama The people who kidnapped you Is it in here? Little Brother Tell you quickly, Ama Who kidnapped you? Tell Ama, who is it? Ama will avenge you. It's him Adults, misdeeds It's unfair. adult My son Yiming saved the two little brothers My life is at stake Who is Who is framing me? Get it for me No Feihong Junior Sister Kill him for me Feng Tiannan Who are you? Hu Fei What I said Even if I chase you to the ends of the earth I will kill you too Uncle Zhong Zhong Sisao Secondary School Xiaosan And Foshan All the people you have oppressed All right, sir, take care. Go! Go! Go Get away, you stinky beggar. Who is the beggar? You look like this If you are not a beggar, then who is the beggar? I Get out of the way Don't grab Uncle, I'm hungry. Here, I'll give you half. Eat it What about horses? What about horses? brother New here? I see you are unfamiliar with this place. or Come hang out with me from now on Why are you pretending to be a big shot here? Get out of here And you Come, come, come This is a new friend I found on the road Come in and sit down You, get up Sit down Receive a bowl of water Give stop Stop, stop quick Did you see that kid just now? No stealing No stealing Look This is a snail This is a snail This is a snail. This is a snail. Our mistress didn't steal the goose. Our mistress didn't cheat. Look, this is really a snail. Yes, it's a snail. It's a snail Daughter, Daughter daughter daughter daughter So pitiful Get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way Get out of the way, quick! Look Our mistress didn't cheat. Who is it? Who's meddling here? Come out to me It's you superior Go bury your brother. Take good care of your mother girl Where are you going? Seeking revenge on Feng Foshan is so big You and I are unfamiliar with this place. According to your method When can I find it? That's it. I have an idea. Sit tight and wait Aren't all the businesses around here owned by people with the surname Feng? Let's call them one by one. I don't believe he won't come forward. Slow down Give me back my clothes father father What's going on? You're so flustered. Mr. Fu's mission has arrived You go entertain. Dad is not convenient Dad, it's a blessing. My son knows Who How dare you cause trouble in Master Feng's territory? I haven't asked the girl's name yet. If he was beaten to death in a moment We both went to hell. At least say hello. You say it first Below Surname Fengmao Then we are really destined to be together. Even the names are so similar The following surname is steamed Famous chicken feet court death I'll kill you Spare my life, hero Spare my life, hero You are a cook, right? Just in time I have something to ask Where is the Feng family's largest industry in this city? This is called Hero Restaurant Qiankun Street is a hero pawn shop Go east for three more intersections Yes Ying, Heroes Hall Understood Anyone who has anything to do with the word hero They are all Feng family's property No wonder In this three-acre land He is the only one who dares to call himself a hero Brother Let's go to Hero Pawn No rush This Mr. Feng is a local celebrity. What should we do? We have to prepare some gifts for him. Who is it? Who is blind? No business today What I want to pawn is rare in the world Please make an exception. What do you want to be? When six vicious dogs One thousand taels per piece What do you mean Does it have ears? When six vicious dogs One thousand taels per piece A total of six thousand taels of silver This business is cheap for you My good man, don't joke. Pawn Rules Living things cannot be Please forgive me Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Don't make trouble here Do you know where this is? Do you know who owns this pawn shop? To make trouble for Tai Sui Let me go Brother It seems that our portion is not enough. Then add some more Is that enough now? Enough, enough Lord, spare my life Why don't you go get the silver? Yes, yes, yes, good Big, uncle The silver is all here. You, have passed the number Slow down Six dogs worth six thousand taels of silver There is another one for worship. You are a hero who has been pawned by the emperor. At least it should be more valuable than these vicious dogs. You are worth Three thousand taels Damn thing Whatever the master says, that's it. Hurry up and get it What are you standing there for? Yes, yes, yes master The little one has no eyes Failing to recognize the great man You are so kind Don't you always talk about the rules? Just follow your rules Write me a pawn ticket I said, you write Six servants of Fengfu are now detained A worshiper Nine thousand taels of silver Annual interest rate of 2%, redemption by ticket Insect bites, ant bites, and fire damage Everyone should accept their fate and not argue Three years, no redemption Come, bet on odds and evens, buy and leave Buy and leave Bet on odd or even Bought and left Come, bet on odds and evens, buy and leave Bet on odds and evens, buy and leave I've decided to buy it. Come, open Double, double, double Come, open 446, win-win A lot of silver. I said double bet Look, look. Come on, come on, lift it up Lift it up well so it doesn't fall. Brother Steam, please please So much money Bet on odds and evens, buy and leave Come, bet on odds and evens, buy and leave Double, double, double open Snake skin, snake skin What's going on The two masters want to play a hand OK, OK, OK At least thirty-two cases Is it a bet limit? The Southern Tyrant's Place No limit on bets Otherwise, how could it be the Heroes Hall? Look, I told you. There is no limit on bets in Master Feng's place yes If the limit Isn't it the Bear Club? Come on, come on, place your bets. Come on, buy it and place your bet Buy odd and even numbers, buy and leave Come on, place your bets Come Snake skin One thousand two Deposit Okay Really one thousand two Really one thousand two OK, buy it and leave it Ready to open Come Single win Looks like I'm lucky. Who knows? It's Master Feng who specially sent us some silver. Baoguan How much more silver does Master Feng have to give? Second place adult Mr. Fu's affairs My father and I will do our best. money It's also up to my Feng Mansion. The Feng Family Heroes It really lives up to its reputation If the martial arts people in the world They are all as sensible as you and your son. Then the court would be much less worried. At that time, please ask the two adults In front of Mr. A few kind words Master Feng, rest assured After we return to Beijing Must be in front of the Marshal Recommend your father and Master Feng Thank you for your kindness. Master, Master Something big happened Are you blind? What big thing can't be discussed later? Can't wait any longer If we wait any longer, all our property will be destroyed. Who is so bold? Dare to be too Second place adult Something happened at home. Sorry, no delivery I'll take my leave first. Master Feng, please Steam brother! I need a bigger board. Keep going like this I can't put down this silver. I think it's no use. Maybe this casino is ours. Mr. Feng is so polite. Then we should respectfully obey Collect it Shake the dice good I shake I'm going to play this again. These pants are all lost This whole casino Giving it away is not enough Snake skin All the silver Double Bet Make way, make way Give way Young Master Well, that guy is really good. Look at us, so many brothers. I can't even get started And that girl is also very good I, I remember they seemed One is called steamed chicken feet One is called Pulling Phoenix Hair pull You're a loser Not ready to ride yet yes Fast, fast, fast This gentleman You've thought it through. Be willing to accept defeat open OK, open it. open pair Really double Win, double You are a cheater. You think I don't know? Are you really that brave? Just the two of you Dare to run wild in my territory What? Is Heroes Hall trying to default on its debt? You can also default on your debts if you want to Then don't call it the Heroes Hall. Bear Club You want money? Not difficult but You have to show me your hands. Show you Go back and call your father. Don't cry when you lose. But no one teases you Kid Dare to gamble? If you dare to gamble I'll give you a chance So that you won't be accused of bullying me. How to bet Size One move determines the outcome Bigger or smaller? what ever happy That's smaller If you start small and then don't grow small, you lose. We haven't shaken yet. Can you be smaller? He is indeed an expert Have two tricks Learned What are you still standing there for? Give me If you lose, you want to default on your debt Is this inherited from your Feng family? Give me back the Phoenix meat You dare to hit me Heroes from all walks of life I came all the way to Foshan I bought a piece of phoenix meat from Zhong Ah Si of the Zhong family But this guy ate it up in one bite. You say, should he fight? Who cares about phoenix meat? You let me go immediately Otherwise I'll let my dad kill your whole family. Good Man Please show mercy This, this is us This is our Master Feng's only beloved son. Master Feng treated him as if he were his life. Good Man If you need money, just tell me. Please Please release our young master. Who allowed him to eat our phoenix meat? He is Master Feng's only beloved son. Can you just eat other people's food? Woman, the heroine made fun of it. Under this sky Where is the phoenix meat? Even if there is Our young master I will never steal your This phoenix meat is a priceless treasure and a great tonic. As soon as I ate it, my face turned red Look at his face He's so popular and you still say he didn't eat it. A good man You, you hit me so hard that I This, this and This has nothing to do with Phoenix meat. Brother Zheng, this is difficult. I said he ate it He said he didn't eat The husband has his own reasons, and the wife has her own reasons. What to do Easy Why don't we go to Pak Tai Temple together? Ask the Northern Emperor to judge the matter What Brother Huandi Zheng said makes sense No, no, no My good man, you are right. My good man, you are right. We were wrong. You said How do you want to compensate? How will we compensate How to compensate Just like the Zhong family