Hey, Eric here with Thirty by Forty Design Since so many people have asked, I thought drawings and show you how architects think Once you understand just a couple of key concepts some of the simple graphical style I use in Sound good? Alright let's get into it. Now, I happen to use CAD for my drawing work you have on hand: pen, pencil, BIM, whatever Tools don't make the drawing, you do. I use probably the most primitive form of in itself that you don't need multiple thousand Use whatever tools you have available. An architect's job is to order things and There's the organization of the line work there's also the order of information that Each requires that you know exactly what you're Now, I want to keep this simple for this tutorial floor plans, but the principles apply to all The goal of a floor plan is to show the relationship features of the interior and exterior spaces, of those relationships. It also serves as a sort of overall map to relying on to construct your architecture, So, it's naturally a diagram. We can't show everything, we have to decide A floor plan is an overhead view of a horizontal four feet above the floor level and of course And so, the first ordering principle is that the walls - should always be the heaviest So, key concept number one has to do with check the video in the cards for another tutorial its importance. These drawings look this way because there's very thin lines and the very thick ones. In CAD, when we're drawing, we draw on different Each layer is transparent and they stack together You can control what you see and what you Separating things into layers allows us to - to quickly change what's being depicted The process of design involves many changes will allow you to change things efficiently. Now, I like to keep things ultra-simple and groups by line weight and that's all. Some architects and consultants use hundreds makes sense assuming you need that level of a few. Mine are all in a template file that I use very simply from heavy all the way to superfine. I also have a few additional layers which like text, dimensions, and detail bubbles; above or below and then one is for hatch patterns. I can turn off any of the layers I don't need environment. So, you may need more or less depending on simple place to start. Any heavy lines you want to draw you'll put light layer, or super fine ones on the super In this way, it's a bullet-proof system for which is, in my opinion, the most important convincing. Now, stick with me I promise not to get too My CAD program is set up to print these lines by layer. So, if I'm drawing on the heavy layer the with a certain line thickness. Make sense? White is always associated with a certain AutoCAD LT calls - the color table. But, all of that honestly is not really important you can simply change the thickness of the In AutoCAD LT I use polylines to change thickness, and your software might call it something By changing thickness, this adds even more what's nice is that it's clearly visible on Now, if you start making really thick lines you change the scale you're printing your thinner. So, just be aware of that. For the quarter inch scale residential floor outer edges of the exterior walls on the heavy a one-inch thick polyline. If you make a template drawing with a variety to whatever scale you're printing or working Now, to get into the real nitty gritty on assigned to the heavy layer and I show them said. The medium layer is very close to the heavy things like the top risers of stairs, or site I use the light layer for floor edges, door and plumbing fixtures. And then, the door swings and like the window Also on the superfine layer, I put all the lines, or substrates like plywood sheathing, But, more on this shortly. Furniture is drawn on the extra fine layer, and counters are hatched differently depending Overhead lines are on the hidden layer and obviously. Again, more on this in a minute. Okay so, the next key concept is to use screening. Now, I'm not talking about hatches per se I use everything from a 10% screen all the In my color table, remember that's the file to print, I've assigned the colors 201 through So, anything assigned color 201 prints as on. And, for even more variety you might change So, let's take a one inch thick polyline and type and now you have a thick dashed line showing ventilation runs on a floor plan, might use a solid one for a handrail, or a You can also apply this technique to our next depth and detail. Hatches are basically patterns that infill They can be made up of tiny dots, shapes, - my personal favorite - solids. When you start using hatches along with the options for creating depth and subtlety in I use hatches to shade the exterior walls, In this drawing it's an 80% screen on a solid So, color 208 on the hatch layer. I use hatches to indicate materials like wood and I also use them for shade and shadow to drawing. On floor plans I use a variety of scales of or as angled lines to show a partial height I also use solid screened hatches on all my from between 40 and 60% screen. I use them in the tree backgrounds - the ones I basically use them everywhere I can because think are important and they also add a softness know - like, painterly I guess. Now, I talked about this in the Q&amp;A video dimensions, but by adding furniture, scale indicate scale, you'll introduce a real sense Doing this also ensures you're accommodating to functionally use the architecture as well. Knowing your client wants to use an 8-foot floor outlets nearby and ensure it's not obstructing It's okay if you're missing this information plans, but I like to begin with at least some For example, is it a masonry exterior? Are there glass curtain walls? Concrete, wood framed walls, finishes, each you start to turn corners and add jogs, or or surfaces, knowing what those materials In the end, your floor plan can be as general you imbue your drawing with, the more useful column details, or figuring out how the glazed Now, BIM programs and other CAD programs have setup entire wall assemblies so that you're wall thickness and material assembly for you AutoCAD LT is the most basic of 2d drafting here. Now, for our Squid Cove project, we actually on the exterior spaced apart to prevent thermal So, I offset the outer perimeter by three 2x4 wall and then another quarter inch for and a half for the inner stud wall. Then, I offset the interior finish thickness then on the outside a half an inch for the exterior shingled walls. Now, along the way as the pricing came back turned out it was a lot more expensive than So, we had to change it back to two by six to fabricate, this change actually happened those openings were fixed on the plan. Essentially, we had to use those opening sizes. So, we were left with this detail at the interior systems and sizes of everything around them that not only matched the detailing of the it was an intentional design decision. So, when you can, show materials. They also fill in this fine layer of line and really pop. Lastly, sort of the icing on the cake, we Now, annotations round out the information important wayfinding tools for the contractor. So, they need to be very clearly organized. I use red text to make it clear that the annotations also something that they need to pay attention them in color. Honestly, I think it's so worth it. You could make it blue or gray too, whatever I like the red because it's easy to point it's really hard to miss, right? Annotations describe things that you're not and details, and should all be on the text for presentation, or while you're making other Annotations grow over time, they'll be basic they'll get progressively more numerous as door tags, and wall tags, and detail bubbles. Now, with annotations I'm begging you please, just uninstall those from your computer! Now, I use Franklin Gothic for mine, but honestly, Actually, anything but those chiseled pseudo Now, you'll know you've done all this correctly see what's important. Do the walls standout? Do the annotations fade? As you spend more time looking for information, like a pull focus or a slow reveal. So, that's it, I hope it was helpful. Use a variety of line weights and keep them Now, if I've helped you in any way please know your suggestions for future videos in What are you guys struggling with right now? Appreciate you guys as always, see you again Cheers!