ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome to this protocol. Non-sleep deep rest that can allow you to state of your nervous system It can restore mental and it can be done any It can even partially offset of getting too little sleep. Non-sleep deep rest takes that specific forms into a state of deep relaxation It also takes that we can control that is, which sensations Sensations are of physical events in that our body and It's a process by which of light, mechanical sound waves, and so to electrical and in our neurons, or nerve cells. Perception is simply that we happen to be focused And perception is an incredible We can't directly control and inside of us, But we can control our One kind of perception and is when we pay attention beyond the confines of our skin. The other type of perception and it's when we pay at the level of the and inward, inside our body. With non-sleep deep rest, you from one of thinking, stress, of any kind, positive of pure sensation It's very simple to do. You'll want to do this So if you're not already seated You'll also want So if your eyes aren't already Throughout this to breathe normally, unless One pattern of breathing is to Inhale deeply, But if you can't do inhale through your mouth. Try that now. Inhale deeply through your nose, through your mouth. Let's do that again. Inhale deeply through your through your mouth. And as you exhale, exhale as if through a small straw. Let's repeat that Inhale deeply through exhale completely through One more time. Inhale deeply through exhale completely through thinly pursed lips. Breathing in that way, through your nose and through the mouth through is known to slow your your nervous system. Feel free now to simply Now, in your mind's standing over yourself, looking or lying down, and a flashlight or a spotlight Focus your attention on whatever to be in contact with. It could be socks, sandals, It doesn't matter. Focus your attention on the bottoms of to perceive whatever They could be tingling. They could even be numb. It doesn't matter. Now imagine expanding to include the tops of your Expanding that spotlight your thighs, your hamstrings, Now, with your entire inside the beam of light inhale deeply through your And then exhale completely until your lungs are empty. Repeat that twice more, and imagine your lower body into whatever surface you happen Now continue by Inhale deeply. And as you exhale, sinking another centimeter you are lying or As you inhale, remember to slightly. And as you exhale, your stomach As you breathe in to imagine the spotlight As you Inhale, you can getting slightly brighter. And as you exhale, getting slightly dimmer. Continue to inhale and to sinking down. Now pay attention to the And as you continue try to relax the at first only slightly. And then with each relaxing the muscles of your Now, regardless of the try to listen to sounds Whatever happens to be Perhaps you can only hear the Perhaps there are Regardless of the sounds you Now you will breathe in the with a deep inhale through your And then a slow, complete exhale Let's repeat that again. Inhale through your nose Then exhale slowly through your Now, in your mind's eye, try illuminated by a spotlight. Imagine looking and your entire body is Dim that spotlight in And as you do so, deliberately Then deliberately relax sensing your palms, Continue to breathe normally. And in your mind's eye, further still so that the image is barely a silhouette. Now, in your mind's eye, Try to see any portion of your hands, your arms, No matter if you see one or all as if you are staring Now move the spotlight and focus your it is your abdomen is sensing. As you inhale, your stomach And as you exhale, Expand the spotlight to your chest, your neck. And now in your that spotlight is expanding Continue to breathe normally. Now focus your surface your back happens a shirt, a chair, a sofa. Whatever surface it focus on that contact now. Simply bring your attention to those points of contact. And as you do so, inhale or through your mouth. And then as you exhale, imagine sinking about a centimeter they happen to be Now move the spotlight the top of your head, and And as you continue focus your perception the muscles of your face. And as you continue see if you can extend the ever so slightly. And now in your mind's eye, to include your neck, your your waist, your legs, Imagine yourself looking down inside of the spotlight. And in your mind's eye, Make the illumination Inhale deeply again through And then exhale completely And as you do so, sinking into the surface Now, while continuing move your toes ever so slightly. You'll notice that you are in You can direct your In doing so, you'll are in control of meaning you direct your Move your ankles and bend your You can move your upper your head from side to side, Now move your hands. Lift your arms just a tiny And now, whenever you are And as you do so, you'll your nervous system is bombarded visual information, eliminated during this As you have now in control of your perceptions. Controlling your perceptions is to specific sensations, which sensations you your attentional or parts of your This reflects the remarkable You can direct your and you can do so in order to You can also do that to achieve or attention to any sensation Non-sleep deep rest can help you restore your sense can partially offset the effects and can also help you get better It can be done any when you feel you need a Thank you for joining me protocol brought to you