RANDY KNAFLIC: --close. We'll get things kicked off. So first of all, welcome. And to all the Americans Thanksgiving. A few. All right. All right. Good. So I'm Randy Knaflic. I head up Google's recruiting based here in Zurich. And I just wanted to-- I get the pleasure and the honor this evening. And since we have all of you good chance to just spend just of you may or may not be company called Google. So I'll do my best to give you But probably it's better just Google here in Zurich, So we've actually been here And started with actually And we have the host of having, engineer in the front row. So if you're interested in engineer to a site that's over can tell you how it's And I can tell you-- I had a little bit more hair So Google's idea was to worked really well in Mountain that worked there, and basically there's this one little fact. That is, there are a lot of And guess what? They don't all sit in Mountain So, believe it or not, they this model a little bit And Zurich was the first site And since then, we've actually sites throughout EMEA and a in all the major cities that And it's worked really well. And so having the engineering enabling us to do things both the local market. So most of you are And whether you knew this or Google, check out Google Maps things that you can do like the bus outside the Hurlimann-Areal that comes every-- I think it's, what, four days? It's a really bad schedule But you would see And that was done by Not not the bus schedule, when it will come. We're working on that as well. We'll get back to you on that. So we're continuing to grow. And we'll continue to tap into Switzerland, but beyond. This site is very special, and Zurich is a great And we're able to track a lot In fact, we have over 42 represented just in Actually, I should say two our second site that all of you those who opted for a tour will here in the Hurlimann-Areal. So that leads us to the next have a returning visitor and our for this evening. And it's fun, because every time to see how-- he comes. There's 30, 40 engineers here. He runs away. Comes back, there's So we're going to We're hoping now the next time this entire building filled and So he's a man who needs very He's actually the real father of some Americans think The work that he did in creating is obviously what has enabled exist. So when he joined in huge honor for us and a great visionary on board. And we're very pleased And it's with my great introduce Vint Cerf. VINT CERF: Thank you And I really appreciate especially in the middle evening, to join us. It's a real pleasure to have you I don't know where Renee it's her birthday today. Renee, where are you? Happy birthday. As as for the crack about Al nincompoop who brings that up. Al Gore deserves credit for what as vice-president. He actually helped to pass NSFNET backbone to grow and to flow on the government-sponsored backbones in the US. Had he not done that, it's commercial sector would not have create a commercial internet So he does deserve some credit I meant to start out-- [SPEAKING GERMAN] And that's all the German you're I did spend a very pleasant six Stuttgart as a young student Well, my purpose tonight is to happening to the internet today headed in the future. And I thought I would also take give you little glimpses of what stages of the internet. But first, let me explain I'm Google's Chief Internet that I asked for. When I joined the company, what title you want? And I suggested Archduke. And they said, well, that our nomenclature. And they pointed out that the Ferdinand, and he was started World War I. So maybe want to have. And they suggested what I've been doing for the become the Internet Evangelist So I showed up on first day of I guess you see over This is the formal academic Balearic Islands. And it was the most outfit that I owned. So I showed up wearing day of work at Google. And Eric Schmidt took It's not often you can find an looking like that. So I took advantage of that Well, let me just start out statistics of the internet 10 years ago, I would have been there were 22 million machines Now, there are almost And these are servers, the web and the like. It's not the machines that are laptops or personal digital The number of users on the net which sounds like a big number are 6 and 1/2 billion So the chief internet evangelist people to convert So I have a long ways to go. The other thing which has been environment over the last decade influx of mobiles. The estimates now are that there of this year that are in use, billion mobiles, which means with more than one mobile. What's important to us and environment is that many people introduction to the internet through a laptop or a desktop. There are estimated to be about in use that are internet And so as time goes on and more become part of the landscape, an in the world will have their internet by way of a mobile as If we look at the distribution first thing that strikes me, North America would have been population of internet users. But today, it's Asia, which Indonesia, and Malaysia, But interestingly enough, this people, represent only 12% of So as they reach the same example, in Europe, at 42%, the users will increase. This tells you something about content of the internet. The kinds of interests that and style of use of the net influenced by our colleagues Europe has almost 338 million penetration of about 42%. I've given up trying to make any Europe because you keep adding countries to. So whatever happens is Africa is at the bottom of the percentage penetration. There are a billion people of them, 40 million of them, It's a big challenge there. The telecom infrastructures The economies very pretty And so getting them up and important task, and one which I thought you'd find it amusing history see the beginnings internet, the ARPANET. There was a four node system in December of 1969. And I was fortunate enough to be in September of 1969. I programmed the software that computer up to the first The sigma seven is And some people think I But this was the beginning of And it was a grand experiment technology would actually interactions among time And indeed, it worked out. The packet switch was Interface Message Processor. This is what it looked like. It was delivered by Bolt, company in Cambridge, heavy-duty metal box. They knew that this was And they didn't know whether things out of helicopters So they put it in a very, very Considering it was installed at and undergraduate students, container was exactly the right deployed into any other place. This picture was actually It was the 25th anniversary The guy on the far left is Jon managed the RFC series as the of IP address space, and managed level domains in the domain name You can imagine, though, by the the beginnings of the dot boom Communications has done its IPO, discovered internet, and we're that that function that he institutionalized. And so he began a process of create an organization that In the end, an organization Corporation for Assigned Names 1998 to take over the name management, internet maintenance of all the protocol with the internet protocols. Sadly, Jon Postel passed away actually formally created. But it has now persisted I had the honor of serving as until just about And I managed to escape because There are term limits And it said I couldn't serve And, frankly, I was pleased successor, a man named Peter New Zealand. So the point I want to make diagram of 1994, is that the always had a certain The guy in the middle He was the man who really blazed network protocols. He ran what was called the which was a collection of in computer science departments States, developing the first It was called NCP, Network And Steve was the primary developed that protocol. It was used until 1983, when introduced to a multi-network You'll notice that we tried to for Newsweek how primitive communications was in the 1960s. It took us almost eight hours And we drew all these pictures clouds of networks. And then we had to buy some and string them together. You'll notice that this network because it was either ear to But there was no mouth to ear. We posed it this way on purpose, a few geek readers of Newsweek This is what I looked like when being developed. I demonstrated-- not TCP/IP but the ARPANET from This was actually an interesting we brought an acoustic coupler It was the first time that the had ever allowed a foreign their telephone system. And they were very concerned might do damage to So we managed to persuade them And we connected the terminals by way of a satellite link all the blazing speed of 300 Well, the internet got started other half of the basic design in the Defense Department, he computers in command And if you were really serious the military needed to be, you in mechanized infantry vehicles, other things. And you couldn't pull wires would run over the wires So you needed radio for that. And you also needed to have with each other. And since they couldn't pull they'd get tangled in knots, satellite communication for And, of course, we needed fixed installations. So there were three networks development. One was called the packet mobile ground radio. Another was packet satellite Atlantic to permit multiple access to a shared And then the ARPANET, the on wirelines. SRI International ran the packet San Francisco Bay area And they built this nondescript of testing packet radio by Bayshore Freeway and detailed measurements of packet ratio, the effects of shot noise and forth nearby the van. The story goes that one day of the road, and the driver, who out from the cab, and went of the van. They were making a bunch And some police car pulled up nobody in the cab. So he went around and And, of course, they And this policeman looks in. And he sees a bunch of hairy, and displays, and radios, And he says, who are you? And somebody says, oh, we And he looks at him, and he But officer, we were only going Well, I remember in 1979, after this technology actually worked, convince the US Army that they out in field exercises. So I had a bunch of guys from coming out to drive around on how it worked. And later, we actually deployed Bragg for field testing. They were big one cubic cost $50,000 each. They ran at 100 kilobits and They used spread-spectrum Now, this is pretty advanced And, of course, the physical something about the nature of available at the time This is a view of the Something else that was very that some of you will be Maybe many of you are using of the other applications, We were testing packetized So, in fact, this is not such In the case of the packet radio we were trying to put a turned out to be a 50 kilobit And all of you know that when it's a 64 kilobit stream. So cramming 64 kilobits per channel is a little And in fact, we wanted to carry stream in this backbone. So we compressed the voice down using what was called linear parameters. All that means is it the voice of 10 cylinders whose diameter would speak. And this stack was excited You would send only the cylinders plus the Formant You'd do an inverse calculation and hope that somehow it on the other end. Speaking of intelligible, I am it's vodka. This should be very interesting So part of the problem with this from 64 kilobits down to 1,800 lose a certain amount And so when you spoke through everyone sound like a The day came when I had Wow. The day came when I had to generals in the Pentagon. And I got to thinking, how And then I remembered that participating in this experiment Norwegian Defense Research His name was his name And so we got the idea that we'd the ordinary telephone system. Then we'd have him packet radio system. And it sounded exactly So we didn't tell the generals way if they went through Today is actually a very Today is the 30th anniversary of getting all three of the internet to interconnect and We took-- the packet radio van Bayshore Freeway radiating They were intended to be Sciences Institute in Marina Del just to the west But we jiggered the gateways actually go from the packet ARPANET, through an internal Norway, then down by landline to then out of the ARPANET through through a satellite ground And then up through the Intelsat down to [? Ekham ?], West ground station, through another the ARPANET, and then all So as the crow flies, the hundred miles, from San But if you actually measured over 88,000 miles. Because it went through two and then across the Atlantic United States. So we were all pretty excited actually worked. I don't know about you, but I've for a very long time. Software never works. I mean, it's just a miracle So we were leaping up and down, works, as if it couldn't So we celebrated this particular couple of weeks ago at We invited everybody who had particular demonstration. And quite a few people were And we got to renew our But that was a very important Of course, if you look at the today, this is the sort Highly connected, much larger, And that's about as much as you that it's a pretty accurate It got a heck of a lot bigger Some of the things that have were fundamental decisions that made at the beginning One thing that we knew is that switching and transmission after we had settled on the And we did not want the We wanted to be future-proof. So we said we don't want the very aware of or dependent upon to move packets from one We were fond of observing that underlying transmission system bag of bits from point A to greater than zero. That's all we asked. Everything else was done on an TCP or UDP in order to recover retransmit, or to weed So we were, I think, very particular philosophical But there was something else decision that I didn't fully The packets not only don't carried, but they don't know They're basically ignorant of carrying a bag of bits. The interpretation of what's in edges of the net, in the transmitting and receiving The consequence of this end to people can introduce new environment without having to and without having to get service providers to try So when Larry and Sergey started have to get permission from try this idea out. Or when Jeff Bezos did Amazon, Yang set up Yahoo! They simply did it. And the same is true when Skype was created. Nobody had to give any Same is true for BitTorrent peer-to-peer applications. Essentially, you get to do what the underlying network, is at neutral about the So this end to end principle has for innovation in the internet believe that it should continue innovation. And it can only do that if the essentially keep their hands off simply carry bits from point A that an ISP can't also have That's not what this means. It just means that the provider transmission, in many cases provider should not take underlying transmission to competing at higher layers in that might be of interest Similarly, the consumers, who access to the full internet they acquire broadband access expect that no matter where they the underlying system will nondiscriminatory way. This does not mean, for example, every single packet on the identically in the same way. We all understand the traffic with high priority. We understand the possibility traffic needs low latency. We understand that you may want capacity at the edges Net neutrality does not mean precisely the same. But what it does mean is that with regard to whose services to or who is offering those traversing the broadband the ISPs are providing. One other thing about broadband to be a problem is that, at it's an asymmetric service, as faster than you can upload them, like you can receive can't generate it. My general belief is that the unsatisfied with this asymmetry be pressure to provide for broadband capacity, which is parts of the world. In Kyoto, you can get a gigabit the internet. It's full duplex, and it costs It almost made me want to move seemed like such a very friendly new things out. So we're very concerned about the underlying network. The other thing I wanted to which was prepared by Geoff Australia, is intended to the IP version 4 The important part of this trending downward. That part is saying basically that the Internet Assigned allocating to the regional it will run out of IPv4 address around the middle of 2010. The regional internet yours here in Europe will presumably hand those address blocks. They're likely to use those The implication of this is available IPv4 address space. This doesn't mean that the grinding halt. But what it does mean is there space and that the only available for further expansion will be IPv6 addresses. Now, I have to admit that cause of this problem. Around 1977, there had been a the various engineers working how big the address space should And one group argued for 32 and another for variable Well, the variable length guys because the programmers said length headers because it was you had to add extra And it's hard enough anyway, so don't do that. The 128 bit guys were saying, address space. And the others guys were This is an experiment. 32 bits gives you 4.3 billion And how many terminations do you Even the Defense Department billion of anything in order technology. So they couldn't make And I was the program manager at getting this thing going. And finally, I said, OK, you It's 32 bits. That's it. We're done. Let's go on. Well, if I could redo it, of let's do 128. But at the time, it would We were using full duplex with timeshared machines terminals across the network. And you can imagine sending one overhead just for the would have been silly. So we ended up with a 32 I thought we would demonstrate and that we would be convinced, we should then re-engineer Well, we never got to It just kept growing. So here we are. We're running out. And we have to use By the way, if you're counting, IPv4, IPv6, what happened The answer is it was an packet format for streaming And it led to a cul de sac And the next available So that's why we have IPv6. Now, with 128 bits of address times 10 the 38th unique I used to go around saying that in the universe can have its until I got an email from Cerf, you jerk, there's 10 to universe, and you're off by So I don't say that anymore. But it is enough address space and then it's somebody I won't have time to go through but I wanted to just emphasize internet has been around for the conceptual point of view for a whole bunch of research have not been solved. Let me just pick on a couple of major issues. Security is clearly We have browsers that are download bad Java code and zombies which become You have problems of denial You have the ability to actually system and turn some of its denial of service attacks, which Multihoming, we haven't done either v4 or v6. Multipath routing, we usually it's only one path. If there were multiple paths destination, if we could run get higher capacity. We don't do that. We don't use broadcast media internet architecture. When you think about it, we turn point to point links. And it's a terrible waste if same thing to a large And that could very well turn not just for delivering things number of recipients, People want to download a particular a piece of software. If enough people wanted the same a transmission over a broadcast allow everyone to receive it satellite, or over a coaxial television network. So we haven't done any of And we don't have a lot of And what's even more important, of experience running two IP the same network, which going to have to do. So in order to transition, we and say, tomorrow we're We're going to have to spend at the same time. And we don't have a lot of When you do two things instead possible complications. The network management systems it gets errors from Or worse, it gets errors from The routing is working for one, Do I reboot the router or not? What do I do? So there are a wide range of fundamental problem with IPv6. We don't have a fully connected What we have is islands This is not the circumstance the original internet. Every time we added another connected to an already But when we start putting in uniformly everywhere, then we're They could be connected It's a very awkward Until we have assurance that we network, people are going to be getting IPv6 addresses, trying getting there because you're in doesn't connect to the other running IPv6. So these are just headaches And they're going to start are going to have to start before we actually run out Switching to a slightly there have been some really effects on the net that are The one that I find the most information consumers the information producers. So you can see it in the form Google Video uploads, personal People are pushing information pulling it out. This is unlike any broadcast or the past, a mass medium had a producers and a very of information consumers. The internet inverts all of that also to produce content. Wikipedia has taught us another about this internet I want you to think about a you're reading. And you see one word which you're an expert in the area statement is wrong or paragraph is wrong. You could certainly make You would never publish a one You wouldn't publish But you can publish one in Wikipedia paragraph. And it's useful. It's a contribution looks at that paragraph. So the internet will absorb the page change, one paper, one It is willing to absorb in all formats, as long as So the barrier to contribution is essentially zero. Another phenomenon which is networking. Many of you may already be using Facebook or Orkut or That's a phenomenon that's going Especially young people enjoy this new medium. And they show a considerable inventing new ways of Similarly, game playing. Second Life, World of Warcraft, and a bunch of others. EverQuest is another one. What's interesting about these really twofold. One of them is that there are in these games. And some economists at Harvard, asked their students to go Life in order to observe the that people are making in the because they're actually trying principles within various parts And so it's actually in an necessarily conduct in the conducted in this artificial The other important observation that the economics of digital different from the economics other physical media. Just to emphasize this, let me I bought two terabytes of disk about $600 for use at home. And I remembered buying a 10 for $1,000. And I got to thinking, what tried to buy a terabyte And when you do the math, cost me $100 million. I didn't have $100 And to be honest with $100 million now either. But if I'd had $100 million in wouldn't let me buy $100 million She would have had a better The point I want to make, dramatic drop in the cost You're seeing similar kinds of bits and processing bits The business models that you economics are very different were built around other media, And companies that built their economics are going to have to economics of online, real transmission and storage. And if they don't figure out how be subject to Darwinian This is a very simple principle, And so if you don't figure out is the only one you have. So a to be, I would say, challenged economics of digital information demanding them to rethink This was a chart that company called Sandvine. They're doing some deep packet behavior of users at the a particular channel. What they were looking at here that are visible as the packets and forth over access lines. What was important here is represented somewhere between 5% that they measured on this And I bring this up primarily two years old. So just look at what happened recently suddenly blossoming application in terms of capacity We can easily imagine that other invented that may have different for traffic, either uploading or maybe low latency, or So the point here is that the It is constantly changing. New applications are coming its capacity. And so this is not stable in telephone network was stable, formulas to predict how many people from getting a busy The internet does not have And because new applications writing a new piece of software, ever going to be able to predict behavior of the net In the core of the net, it's you're aggregating a large And you can get fairly stable net, but not at the edge. I've been thinking a lot about storage and transmission have an media, like video Let's just take a moment a 15% percent of all the video is real time video. It's being produced It's a news program. It's an emergency or maybe 85% five percent of video that pre-recorded material. So in this chart, there are Real Time video that's been And PR for Pre-Recorded video through the network. And imagine now that One is the transmission to you as the consumer. And the other is the storage And the split is that high sufficiently high to deliver means you can't deliver Low storage means there isn't any reasonable amount High means there's enough amounts, which might be measured So the question is, you in as the consumer? If you're in the lower left hand transmit in real time, and you it, you're basically Video is not an interesting If you have very high storage available, you can real time, just as you would satellite or over the air You can even potentially receive material at higher than But since you don't have any doesn't do you a lot of good. So basically, in the upper streaming video in real time. In the upper right, it's Because here you have high speed lot of storage available. The real time stream could watched in real time. It could be delivered in real watched later, just personal video recorders. But it's the pre-recorded interesting. You could clearly transmit But you can also transmit it you have a data rate that video is normally transmitted The implication of this is that means streaming video. It means delivering video could watch it. Anybody that uses an iPod today Because you're downloading music listen to it. And then you play it back whenever you want to. It's my belief that IPTV is playback style of iPod as long of the net are sufficiently So what does that mean for And I'd like to use the word business model and the word And so my interest here is the video medium and the up into an internet One thing that's very clear is everything when you're you're downloading doesn't to video and audio. It could easily contain So when you get a DVD, it has It's bonus videos. It's textual material. Maybe it's the biographies of how the movie was made, movie was based on. So when we're downloading stuff and it's coming through the forms of digitized content, then access it later. Among the things that is advertising material. In the conventional video world for an an advertisement, and you the consumers. In the world of internet based back the recorded content, which is interpreting interpreting the data. And so it's not just a stupid It can actually make decisions information that's So imagine that you've composed video and that you've made some field of view-- like maybe this Macintosh is you've made those objects sensitive to mousing. So if you mouse over that highlights. And a window pops open. It says, gee, I see you're Let me tell you a little bit Click here if you'd like to find available at the Apple Store. By the way, do you want to And then go back to watching The idea of allowing the users of view of an entertainment idea with regard And it feels a little funny, a sitting up here, getting excited But remember, that's where So we care a lot about new would improve the consumers' he or she has to And also, it turns out the knowing whether the users are And so knowing that if they're not interested, If they are, they do. And that is a big jump up in the potential client for your So my prediction is that video where high speed interfaces storage are available, will be a users to control advertising and with a much better product I mentioned mobiles before. And I just want to emphasize programmable devices. These are not just telephones Google recently announced an Android that we would like to building these wireless open up the platform so that applications and allow users to too much difficulty. These things are already information on the net. Here, especially, in Europe, used to make payments. This is a challenge, though. I've got a BlackBerry here, and size of a 1928 television set. And the data rates that you can from tens of kilobits a second And the keyboard is just three inches tall. So these are pretty But it seems to me that they are because of the prevalence of areas where alternative internet isn't available. What is interesting about these carry them around on your person become your information your information source. And often, you want information to where you are So geographically indexed very valuable and very access it through mobiles. I have a small anecdote to share the importance of having access indexed information. My family and I went on a called Page, Arizona. It's adjacent to something We decided to rent Believe me, if you like steering rent a houseboat. It steers like a houseboat. Anyway, I was terrified that I way down the lake. But in any case, the problem is there's no place to So you have to prepare and bringing it onboard. So as we were driving into discussing what meals we And somebody said, well, And I thought, well, You need saffron to do that. Where am I going to find saffron Page, Arizona? So fortunately, I got So I pulled out the And I went to Google. And I said, Page, Arizona And up popped a response with number, name of the store, and to get there. So I clicked on the And, of course, this being a The phone rang. Somebody answered. And I said, could I please speak Now, this is a little store. So it's probably the owner department. And I said, do you He says, I don't know. He went off. And he came back. He says, yeah, I've got some. So we followed the map. This all happening We follow the map, drive And I ran in and bought $12.99 That's 0.06 ounces, in And we went off on We made a really nice paella. What really struck me is that I that was relevant to a specific execute this transaction. It would not have worked-- can you imagine going and trying the white pages or the yellow or what have you? The fact that you can get in real time is really So I believe that as this mobile unfold, that geographically to be extremely valuable. Well, some of you have been watched the internet grow. I've been a little stunned at starting to show up on the refrigerators or picture frames off of web sites and then automatically, or things that they're actually voice But the guy that really stunned the middle. He's from San Diego. He made an internet I guess he was sitting out on if I had a laptop in my the internet while I'm waiting So he built a laptop into And he put a WiFi service shack back on the beach. And he now sells this So if you're interested in surfboard, he's the I honestly think that there are devices on the net, more devices And if you think about the serve you every day, there And imagine that they're Imagine being able to interact services to interact So as an example, instead of with your entertainment systems, the network and accessible that through a web page on a service then turns around and takes that you want to watch or music to or moving content from All of that could be done In fact, a lot of those devices And if you're like me, there And then you fumble around remote control goes And after you figure that out, the dead battery. So the idea here is to replace which is internet enabled. So are the devices You program them and them through the internet. So you don't even have to Gee, you don't even have You could be anywhere in the access to the internet, and entertainment systems. Of course, so could the And so you clearly need strong make sure only the authorized controlling your entertainment ventilation, or your security. All of these things could lots of appliances at home, manageable through the opportunities for third parties that equipment for you. So this kind of the network opportunities for people products and services. I don't have time to these various examples. But there are little scenarios refrigerator that's online. If your families are like communication medium between paper and magnets on the front And now, if you put up a nice of the refrigerator door, you members by blogging, by instant pages and email. But it gets more interesting refrigerator has an RFID And RFID chips are on the the refrigerator. So now the refrigerator can And while you're at work, it's for recipes that it knows with what it has inside. So when you get home, you see a for dinner if you like. And you can extrapolate this. You might be on vacation, It's from your refrigerator. It says, I don't know how much in there three weeks ago, crawl out on its own. Or maybe your mobile goes off. It's an SMS from your Don't forget the I have everything else I need Now, unfortunately, the Japanese beautiful scenario. They've invented an internet When you step on the scale, it member you are based And it sends that information of your medical record. And, of course, that's OK, The refrigerator's on So when you come home, coming up on the display. Or maybe it just refuses knows you're a diet. I'm going to skip over-- I'm sorry. There's some important I mentioned earlier IPv6. P And that's something that transformation of the core part internet protocol layer. There are other things that are 2008 that are going to have an various kinds of internet One thing is the introduction domains, internationalized in character sets that include Cyrillic, and Hebrew, and Kanji, and Hangul, ICANN has already put up 11 level domains, in the And it's encouraging people interactions with those domain application software packages, email to give you a chance to interact with these non-Latin They're are represented It may be Unicode encoded But what's important is that the that these are domain names, using strings other than simply through nine and a hyphen. The other thing which is going domain name entries. So DNSSEC is a way of allowing name lookup to ask for a And when that comes back, you information in that domain altered, that it has maintained time it was put in. This is not encrypted Is simply a question of make sure that the information went in the first place. Those things are all under And they may have an impact on involved in building systems I'd like to just quickly go points here. One of them is that intellectual in the online environment is Digitized information is easy distribute. The philosophy behind copyright Bern Convention that was says that physical copies of concerned about. And the difficulty of copying physical objects is what has [INAUDIBLE] well. But in the presence of digital turning out to be much It may very well be that we need what copyright means in this environment. There are alternatives that Creative Commons is one of them, anniversary this year, that may compensating authors or of they want to be compensated or compensated for their been put into this online Tim Berners-Lee has worked for about the semantic web. This is an idea that allows us of the network, not just with of the meaning of the strings. That project is still If in fact it's possible to the meaning of contents on beneficial, certainly, from Because today, we tend to But what you really wanted And in order to do a better answers, we need to understand what's in the net. And right now, we I'm becoming increasingly the objects that are in Some of them are extremely There not interpretable A spreadsheet, for example, actually bring it up in the interact with it. It's a very complex object You can't simply print it out. Well, you can, but you get a the real content, meaning and, So I'm unconcerned that over into the internet will be interpret what the bits mean. That leads me to my biggest I'll call bit rot. If in fact bits are stored away moved from one medium to another come along, what will happen software that knows how At that point, you won't know than a bag of bits. And so the question is, Let me give you a scenario. It's the year 3000. And you've just gone through And yo've turned up a PowerPoint So suppose you're running The question is, does Windows 1997 PowerPoint? And the chances are And this is not arbitrary Even if this were open source you would maintain backward strikes me as being So the question is what to do information that you want to be now like vellum documents are 1,000 years old. We have to start thinking about that will be able to interpret You may even have to go so far system that knew how to run interpret the bits. And maybe even emulate operating system that knows that can interpret the bits. There is very, very little that domain, something very concerned about. Otherwise, 1,000 years from now, what the heck we did in There will be nothing about pile of rotting bits. And that's all they will know, generation. And I'm sure that's not what we OK, last update. And I have a whole bunch of have asked already. And I'll try to answer This project that I'm about not a Google project. Google lets me have time But I don't want you to walk out hah, I've figured out what It's going to take over That's not what this is about. This is about supporting the system using standardized Because historically, we have communication systems in standardize communication Now, we all know we've using robotic equipment. Usually, to communicate with Deep Space Network, which These are big 70-meter dishes Madrid, Spain, and Canberra, There are also adjacent to Half of one is kind of visible that image. So as the earth rotates, these rotating along and seeing out communicate with spacecraft like orbit around a planet or flying some cases actually landing on the rovers in 2004. One thing that you might not communication protocols that are missions are tailored to the are on board the spacecraft most efficient use of the capacity, which is often The rovers that went onto Mars still running, which is pretty original mission time So they're still in operation, I forget which one-- has a dragging furrows in But they're still operational. One of the problems that showed in the rover mission is that the with the high gain antenna. There's a thing that looks the right hand side. That was the high gain antenna data straight back to the the surface of Mars. When they turned the radios on overheated. And it happened on both was a design problem. So they had to reduce the duty radio damages itself, which investigators crazy. because 28 to begin with. And now it's less frequent So the guys at JPL figured reconfigure systems so that the from the rover up And there were four orbiters They were reprogrammed in order 128 kilobit radio, a different have very far to go. So the signal to noise ratio higher data rates. Then the data was stored in around to the point where it Deep Space Net. And once again, it could second, partly because the panels and more power available the surface. So the net result is that all back from the rovers is going system, which, of course, is This reconfirmed an idea that Propulsion Lab and I have been And that's the definition interplanetary extension Basically, we assume we're of the planets and in Those are low latency TCP/IP works very well there. We thought we could get away interplanetary part. That idea lasted about a week. It's pretty obvious what When Earth and Mars are farthest orbits, they're 235 million And it takes 20 minutes one way a signal to propagate. And you can imagine how flow You'd say, OK, I'm Stop. The guy at the other end doesn't 20 minutes. Of course, he's transmitting And then packets are falling It doesn't work. To made matters worse, called celestial motion. The planets have this nasty And so you can imagine you're the surface of Mars. And after a while, it rotates talk to it until it gets back So the communication So we concluded very quickly delay and disruption problem and protocols that built that into frankly not part of the internet TCP/IP protocols. So we developed a set We've been going through We've got to the point now available software. It's all up on the Delay and Disruption Tolerant dot org. And that protocol has now been environments. We picked two. The Defense Department, DARPA, interplanetary architecture And after we got done and serious problem, we realized tactical communication, the delay, uncertain delay. So we went back and said, we And we think you could use the military communication. So they said, OK, prove it. And we said, OK. We went off, and these motes that come from operating systems. We built a protocols on board. And then we went to And we said, OK, we'd like What application would And they said, chat. I said, are you kidding? You're sitting here with bullets going like this? And they said yes, because chat when you reconnect, all the then given to you And so you get back in sync with part of this communications So we said, well, OK. So we did that. We implemented it. We went out to Northern Virginia of these things with And it worked. And so I thought that was pretty DTN working terrestrially, coming out of all this. And the next thing I knew, our stuff to Iraq. And I said, wait a minute, And they said, no it isn't. And off they went. So we said, all right, fine. Then we thought, well, let's environment as well. Some of you, I'm sure, are the reindeer herders, the Sami Sweden, and Finland, and And they are pretty isolated, And satellite communication is are, bang, right there So we said, well, what would with 802.11 in it and in all-terrain vehicle? And we put WiFi service So we tried one village. And we tried this random system using DTN. And it worked. That was last year. So next year, we're going to try the DTN protocols to And if it works out well enough, these things in the snow mobiles both during the summer So we're very happy that we've the use of the DTN protocols. We're now the point where we're based testing. 2009, we're hoping to put the International Space Station. And in 2011, NASA has offered protocols on board the deep completed its primary, mission into a comet and gather But it's still out there, and So somewhere around 2011, qualify the DTN protocols. And after that, Adrian Hooke, NASA, is also Chairman of the Space Data Systems. And we hope standard protocol for use So what we're expecting, if agencies around the world will They'll use it for every mission And that means that every time previous mission assets that are of the support structure for What will happen as a result interplanetary backbone over a more of these missions get So me let me stop there and taking all this time. And we'll see whether we can that's OK with you. So let me-- these are questions that many of you here. And I'll answer a few. And then we'll see if we ones from the floor. First company says, for many the internet for, say, three substantial damage. Question, is it possible to such a breakdown of the And if so, how could And are there any numbers Or maybe how could it be done? I think the answer is I'm how it could be done. The answer is that the internet could be taken down There have been plenty of years or so since the 1983 it in one way or another. And in spite of the fact that far one of the most serious it seems unlikely that would be taken down. I will observe, however, that in the foot fairly regularly So if you mis-configure the you can easily damage parts of the internet. And we seem to do that than we would like. But I think on the whole, the been pretty substantial. That doesn't mean we shouldn't amounts of security mechanisms limit that risk. What's the biggest fallacy Well, one of them is that He didn't invent it, something to do with it. The other big fallacy is some happened because a bunch of together one day and multi-network system. The fact is that it started with took a long time. Will there ever be secure web Would apps be more secure Boy, that's a really Right now, the most vulnerable the browser. Browsers ingest Java code or they often are unable to detect actually trying to take over Trojan horse, or do some If we collectively were to think we should be investing in browsers that are able to defend dangerous downloads. Should the evolution of such as HTTP go-- or where should it go in order interactions of web 2.0? And a related question, much overhead in HTTP? Well, first of all, I'd say solely on HTTP as the medium Peer-to-peer applications And although some of them get distributing material that's are a very efficient way of communicate in the network, multiple groups. So my reaction right now to should be looking at kinds of interactions in HTTP designs. Can the world wide web help democratic society? Well, the short answer Probably not, although to be internet probably is the most system that we've ever had, people to introduce content, and exchange it. But humanity is what it is. Shakespeare keeps telling That's why the plays are So for humanity to become a just going to take a fair amount of who make up that society, not surrounds them. Authentication on the internet identification. How can the privacy of The answer is that we We need to have anonymous And we also need to have the authentication. And the reason that you want to it's important to We all understand you can abuse bad things, and stalk people, that are not true. But there are also times when in order to allow On the other side, there are or engage in for which we really other party is. And so we want strong mechanisms validate each other to website to you. And the same time, we also have And I think we need both. I'll tell you what. There's a list of almost 23 And I have the feeling that the audience who would like to didn't ask ahead of time. So let me stop with the there's anybody who would live from the floor. There's a microphone And if there's a brave soul who I promise I won't spit. And if there aren't any, I'll maybe run off the stage. Let's see. When do you think ownership transferred from the US organism such as the UN? Well, I'll be honest and say transferred to an international organism such as the UN. I think that transfer of the multilateral organization I'd point out that ICANN organization, which means that sector, the technical community, have access to the process of name system and internet It would be much better for this multi-stakeholder structure, not like the UN. The Internet Governance Forum Rio de Janeiro. It too is a multi-stakeholder And the conversations that different stakeholders, I think, illuminating when it comes to perspectives are about policy. So I hope that the answer is, multilateral group, but rather And I would suggest that there done to extract the US All it does right now in the validate that ICANN has followed delegations of top And that's all it does. It's never forced any It's never rejected any that ICANN has made. This isn't to say that people of them, not have this And I hope that sometime, opportunity to revisit that what's now called the Joint Department of Commerce OK. Well, let me stop there. And if there aren't any can wrap up. I don't know whether you would benediction. RANDY KNAFLIC: No. I just would like to say