the RAF and USAAF went into belief that the bomber would always get through no matter how dense their opponent's air slip through and wipe out their intended targets however against the determined wasn't long before they were questioning even with the most sophisticated turret as the Allies clawed their way deeper into against Japan they could not be complacent to ensure victory against two ever when the usaaf began their bombing campaign formations of heavily armed B-17s would be almost The Luftwaffe's Fighters always seemed to find a as losses mounted USAAF commanders searched for an B-17 gunship the YB-40 so what they do is they gun position is increased to 250 caliber machine turret on the front of the B-17 throw a whole is they were inserting these YB-40s gunships into and their job was to add extra Firepower YB-40 once the bomber formations had released but the YB-40s didn't so they tended to get left end of the day I think they managed to shoot appearance in the European theater so their as an escort gunship the 48 sorties were recorded. just five German Fighters the extra weight of guns and additional could not keep Pace with the rest of the chin turret was incorporated into the new B-17G in Germany turret development soon caught up with the Focker Wulf FW-200 was one of the most service equipped with a forward dorsal powered top millimeter cannons two 7.92 millimeter waste guns was a formidable opponent but it had a weakness fuselage because there are quite a number of cases times and breaking Midway down the fuselage I've Bordeaux Merignac for the Focker-Wulf 200C The the Heinkel He-177 reaching service in it was the first and only heavy German bomber before the B-29 appeared even with 720 millimeter machine guns the He-177 was restricted to The Messerschmitt Me-410 designed to replace fighter to be equipped with an advanced rear remote gun system provided good protection over during 1943 the B-17F or the brunt of losses were horrendous American commanders clung to the idea of the self-defending with the introduction of the B-17g and improved tail turret it was like the B-17 the Consolidated B-24 Liberator turrets. entering RAF service first British top and tail turrets each was armed in early combat the B-24 like the B-17 was model addressed the problem with a nose-mounted caliber machine guns it also carried a Martin top even with four powered turrets the B-24 was fighter attacks in the end the Mast formations interestingly enough during the Battle of and sends their bomber creatures over to Battle of France the liftoff learns that their they face for the first time monoplane fighters from the French Air Force and even though and the Netherlands the losses they suffered to realize that they're bombers their Heinkels without fighter escort are vulnerable to fighter the Germans used fighter escort to escort their learned on the Americans and they continue with be invulnerable to fighter attack by late 1943 Fighters equipped with drop tanks could provide in over three and a half years of war the USAAF as the Americans pounded German targets by attack Germany at night losses to the new four-engine bombers like a Short Stirling introduced starting in 1941. each was equipped the Short Stirling was the first equipped with Frazer-Nash nose, dorsal six 303-inch caliber machine guns. The the Mark 1 was equipped with the Boulton the Boulton Paul Type E rear turret 303 inch machine guns and one of the it also has to be remembered that the uh Handley Page Halifax and Avro Lancaster were all adopted their night bombing techniques they equipped for daylight operations now all the in 42 they were all equipped with power turrets inch machine guns which were basically and they hadn't really studied how the turret night the bombers would be flying as individual and have the mutual protection of a large number out how to use their trained gunners and turrets Developed from the failure of the Avro Manchester powered by four Rolls-Royce Merlin's it the nose, mid upper, and tail positions. like most lightly armed heavy bombers of the war designed as a day bomber the Lancaster's German night Fighters armed with 20 millimeter outranged it. The nose turret was all but useless top turret saw a little action. Tail Gunners were spotting an approaching night fighter it's not so surprising RAF bomber command was a speedy Me-262. Eric wells in charge of experience. In fact our aircraft shot down an confirm it but I saw it in my own eyes. my three took a moment to go up to the front sit by and as I got there this aircraft was definitely the ****02? the thing just blew up but the authorities enemy aircraft shot down but they would the role of RAF Gunners at night was far different did not want their Gunners to open fire Gunners of approaching Fighters many Pilots use evasive it was either Corkscrew left or Corkscrew right turn hard left or hard right and then would go a corkscrew where it would throw off the the at night it's really essential the radar will of sky to look for but until you get a visual going to get an a really essential aiming German night fighter tactics were simple after approach from below and the rear they also had Innovative and successful features it had was top of the cockpit just between the two crew forward at an angle of 60 degrees with Schrage Musik you if it was the enemy you then just blasted off and the interesting thing is on the first ever 219 it killed six Lancasters in one swipe. The British a small number of Lancasters and Halifaxes were aiming through the periscope site proved just like there were American counterparts March 30th 1944 the RAF sent 795 bombers 95 heavy bombers were shot down for RAF unable to defend themselves the RAF's even before the Nuremberg raid RAF to help defend the bombers the RAF formed a top number 100 group its job was to disrupt and jam what the turrets couldn't do they flying high above the main bomber stream constant stream of electronic noise some of the their job was to tune in to frequencies and give false the RAF Lancasters had a normal crew of seven but operator we were number eight our position was beneath the mid upper Gunner at the center of the players had Top Secret in those days you go eliminate that I had three transmitters so I could and we were of course very vulnerable first secondly because of the fact that we but we had a device called they had a device them onto us and we had a device where we could us it bented and they were flying alongside out it's a very clever thing so secret was their job that not even the they kept us well apart from the others and then I we had and it's not even the captain our skipper knew what utterly secret and we were the most unpopular by War's end some Lancasters were equipped 50 caliber machine guns in the tail identification, Friend, or Foe system had to was estimated that four times as many bombers in total RAF bomber command sharp contrast just 260 of the Speedy the Boeing B-29 super Fortress the the B-29 was a Marvel of Technology 3,000 Miles and carry up to 20 000 feature was the Revolutionary General Gunners no longer had to strap themselves into controlled turrets and a gunner in the tail the there were four assigned Gunners three manned the wing. The upper and two side blister Gunners turrets. the Bombardier or Navigator controlled operated hits alone designed to allow one doubled his firepower at the flick of a switch so developed during World War II enter service it's great high altitude performance it has a Norden first remote controlled turret system developed each turret is controlled by an analog computer speed, bullet drop, humidity, temperature have to worry about all those things all the B-29 the computer will align the guns onto the target What made it all work were the five central fire the gunsight information Parallax, ballistics sent to the corresponding turrets moving as long as the Gunner tracked his target smoothly but it wasn't enough improvements were continually first installed in the B-29B. The new radar designed to log on to incoming enemy Fighters fortunately for B-29 crews Japanese after over 31 000 sorties over the Japanese all told 360 B-29s were lost to all causes as like the Germans the Japanese were quick to the B-29 which again was head-on attack there the guns could not depress enough to cover that attacks as much as possible. But also to the quite anemic they didn't have a lot of fighters and at the height the B-29s flew their altitude was extremely poor so what they adopted B-29 which was ramming so they developed a certain death for the pilots a lot of times into the B-29 and hopefully bail out but it was of pilot training in order to you know get your the long-range P-51 escort fighter would prove Korea 1951. B-29 Gunners face their greatest armed with two 23 millimeter and one 37 millimeter with its high speed and immense Firepower it for most B-29 gunners the Swift MiG-15 unable to cope with the fast attacking MiGs the The Korean War and the buildup of Soviet Russia was now the enemy armed with stood toe-to-toe in a world defined early nuclear weapons were big and bulky an aircraft with InterContinental range Germany from the U.S. the B-36 continued the the B-36 was a behemoth a wingspan of 230 feet armed with sixteen 20 millimeter cannon and eight heavily armed strategic bomber ever produced vibration affected the electrical wiring vacuum to malfunction even with its powered turrets the several parasite fighter concepts were tried Bombay and wingtip mounted RF-84Fs the concept at the same time that the Air Force was were also looking into a much smaller and cheaper at the end of World War II Douglas experimental bomber the XB-42 also known as two engines in the fuselage driving a pair placing the props in the tail not only it also left a room in the wings for rear although these aircraft could and a jet-powered variant was in the swept Wing Boeing B-47 along the power turret but not the Stinger's tail both aircraft were equipped with early remote B-47 carry 250 caliber machine guns later the B-52 Strato Fortress operational since aircraft in the U.S Air Force service it's also using a powered turret. the early B-52s a man tail turret armed with four 50 caliber the G-model moved the Gunner to the forward machine guns Armament in the B-52H changed December 18 1972 operation linebacker 2. North Vietnamese Air Force reacts with intense Gunners were ready turning away from their target tracked an incoming MiG-21 both engaged the 50 calibers scoring hits on the MiG-21 seconds witnessed by another B-52 tail Gunner the kill First Class Albert Moore claimed another MiG-21 the North Vietnamese Air Force they were the last today the power turret has all a few bombers that still have the stingers tail the tupolev tu-95 bear like the a gunner still mends the rear turret but his job crew it can be a lonely proposition the crew air of extracting the tail Gunner for a photograph where was he well answer there's no through way was able to climb in whilst at base he climbed in and getting in from ground level as it were we're feet above the ground and he can open his hatch long time we found somebody with a ladder and as today the Strategic bomber relies on speed stealth for protection the era of the manned power while Marvel's of Technology they could never in the end it was the fighter This is the consolidated B-36 intercontinental bomber, sometimes referred to as the Peacemaker or the big stick. It was the largest conventional warplane ever built. It had tremendous range and a great payload, with its six piston engines turning and later, four more jets burning the B-36 for many years projected America's military might. It was a monstrous airplane. It's had six engines and they were pusher props. Now later on they hung jet pods on the ends of the wing, but the early models were were all piston engines, uh pushers. It was a huge airplane. And it was. It was designed, then, to carry atomic weapons. But by the mid 50s, its sheer size, cruciform shape and middling performance worked against it in a world of pure jets. However, in its heyday, the 36 was the very pinnacle of successful giantism. Rather surprising, given that a decade and a half earlier, the United States had all but abandoned the idea of operating massive aircraft known as XBLRs or the experimental bomber long range. The first attempt, the XBLR -1, resulted in the Boeing XP-15. This was an ambitious and useful experiment that demonstrated the importance of four engined bombers. The XP-15 carried a crew of 10. However, it's 150 foot wingspan proved too large for practical use. But Boeing's next offering, the XB-17, which followed a year later, perfectly met the needs of the army. Despite the Army Air Force's decision not to proceed with the XB-15, the political mood in 1938 was undergoing a sea change. With the acquisition of total power by the Nazi Party, American military planners had to contemplate a scenario of German domination of Europe, including Britain. In America in 1938, the question being secretly asked was what if Britain did fall? Perhaps the only way of striking back at the Axis powers in Europe was with the once dismissed experimental bomber long range. The XBLR- 2 came together as the XB-19. Somewhat bigger than the XB-15. And in fact, bigger than any other aircraft in the world at that time. It was to be built by Douglas Aircraft in California. However, by the time the B-19 first flew, the Battle of Britain had already been won when a few hundred pilots of RAF Fighter Command were just able to halt the Nazi juggernaut. Notwithstanding these events, the B-19 project continued. Some indication of the project size can be gained from the scope of its planning. The XB-19 required no less than four acres of drawings, 500 engineers and more than two million hours of R&amp;D and construction. The wings on their own had a 212 foot span and were over one tenth of an acre in actual size. The wings also held four giant engines. Each one had more than twice the power of those on the B-15 predecessor. The B-19 even had its own hoists for changing the 16 foot propellers and was able to lift its own massive engines on and off the wings. Each wing contained a lighted passageway enabling. Crew to reach the engines in flight. The two massive main tires were 8 foot high and each was of 24 ply, using 150 miles of rayon cord and three miles of steel wire. Such were the proportions of what Douglas liked to refer to as their hemispheric defender. In theory, this behemoth flying machine could fly more than 1/3 of the distance around the world without refueling, perhaps reaching parts of Europe and the return trip too. On June 27th, 1941, the B-19 made its first flight from Douglas Aircraft in Santa Monica to March Air Force Base. Despite various suggestions to the local press at the time, the B-19 was really a proof of concept aircraft to explore what could be learned about building giant aircraft. The B-19 also presented the same problems and lengthy delays as Boeing had endured with its four year development of the B-15. Knowing that many of the lessons recently learned were already becoming obsolete. Douglas suggested that the B-19 be abandoned. However, the army remained firm that the XBLR-2 would be delivered. In fact, the Douglas Company's view may have been quite sound, as the war had necessitated that the two prototype long range bombers be ordered six months before the B-19 ever flew. The Northrop B-35 and its competitor, the enormous consolidated B-36, would use whatever data could be migrated from Douglas. In fact, the B-35's design was a totally different concept, relying upon advanced flying wing aerodynamics to gain maximum range, an idea that was far ahead of its time. Nevertheless, it was the consolidated XB-36 which the Air Force adopted. It was a symbol, a pure 1940s giantism, and likely would have benefited from some of the ideas incorporated in the B-19. However, it was a virtual flying gas tank, carrying with it all the fuel it needed for a there and back European mission. The Second World War had come and gone before consolidated giant reach production. And as Britain did not fall to Germany, the 36's absence had no impact on the conflict. Although its presence became critical in the Cold War that followed. It was during this potentially cataclysmic test that America's peacemaker rarely came of age. The newly formed Strategic Air Command under General Curtis Lemay would regularly fly to far distant territories just to demonstrate its enormous reach. It was all a very effective show of force, although by the mid 50s one that was starting to be questioned. The airplane that flew like a glider. It was easy to fly. Anybody could have flown it with five hours of stick time. It was a beautiful airplane. It's good. That they never had to fly military missions, even with the four jet engines which were placed on later. The success of an earlier Strategic Air Command gamble with the B-47 Stratojet medium bomber demonstrated the need for a faster swept wing all jet power heavy bomber. Yet consolidated felt they could still provide a ready answer. The B-60 arrived after a stand at 36 fuselage was married to swept wings and tail surfaces. It was propelled by 8 turbojet engines. The concept would have been economical, but advances in in flight refuelling made it no longer necessary for massive fuel loads to be carried. The age of Giantism was coming to an end. Strategic Air Command wanted a smaller, faster and more sophisticated heavy bomber and Boeing B-52 Stratofortress fitted the bill. And in terms of years of service for dollars spent, the B-52 was able to adapt and evolve in a way Convairs's big stick never could. Still, credit where it's due. The B-36 was for a number of years, America's sole intercontinental bomber. And served as an effective deterrent, appropriately earning the type its other nickname, the Peacemaker. In aviation terms, Konstantin Kalinin's K7 was a classic exercise of early 1930s giantism. A massive aircraft for the time. And indeed for years to come, it was destined to break much new ground and many hearts during its relatively short career. Despite the K-7's massive 175 foot wingspan, which was almost twice the aircraft's length. It was not particularly hard to fly or even to handle. This was due to the fact that it employed A servo tab system on the control surfaces. These allowed the moving surfaces to be literally flown into position with very little effort from the pilot. We were very interested in type of controls because they were server tab controls. At least half of them were server tab and half were normal controls. They work together and It's offers a lot of advantages in lightning up the controls and it also they are very much less liable to enemy fire. They're not as vulnerable if you strike the controls, you don't really put them out of action. You've got to put the small tab out of action and that's a very different cup of tea. For all that, the K-7 even with its seven engines was not the largest winged aircraft ever built. That distinction was still to be held by the German Dornier DO-X flying boat, which was first flown in 1929. This behemoth aircraft was actually powered by no less than 12 engines and carried passengers who enjoyed unparalleled luxury. three DO-Xs were built and flew with relatively few mishaps, although they were never really practical or economically viable. However, also in 1929 another German manufacturer, Junkers, offered its G-38. Two were built and like the K-7 that followed, they were giant land plans, but not as large as the DO-X . The G-38s were nevertheless big, and they also shared something else with K-7. Both aircraft were more or less flying wings with a limited fuselage purely to support the tail plan for added stability. With both the K-7 and the G-38, nearly all the aircraft's vital components were placed in their massive wings. The K-7 wing was particularly interesting as Kalinin chose an elliptical shape similar to that later employed on the British Spitfire, the American Thunderbolt, and some German Heinkel designs. Elliptical wings, although more difficult to make, have some aerodynamic advantages. The K-7 would have had the largest elliptical wings ever made. Kalinin's vision for the K-7 was that there should be three different versions. First, the heavy bomber. This concept would rely upon tremendous defensive fire. The two narrow booms that supported the tail would each house Gunners, who would be able to reach their positions with the aid of their own power trolleys connected to the main wing. There were also many other gun positions. The K-7 bristled with machine guns and cannons. There were even gun positions in each of the enormous pontoons that also housed the undercarriage. Kalinin also foresaw the K-7 as a giant military transport, which could carry large numbers of troops and other heavy loads that might even include light tanks, a capability that Soviet military planners had long been interested in. Finally, the K-7 was also seen as a luxury airliner, a passenger plane to challenge even the opulence of the DO-X. And the exact opposite of what the proletariat revolution was supposed to have been all about. However, if Kalinin's ambition could see no limits to what might be done, a small group of Soviet planners were starting to rethink what had been done. 1933, the year that K-7 first flew, was also the year that the Nazi party came to power in Germany. Now there were two large dictatorships, fascism and communism. Both looking to influence Europe with their own dogma for a new world order and both were highly militaristic. However, there were differences in the needs and thinking of the two powers. Germany would ultimately turn to using larger numbers of two engine bombers and in contrast the Soviets, having to contemplate much greater distances, could see the need for a larger four engined aircraft, although nothing like the size or cost of Kalinin's K-7. Soviet planners started to look more closely at a simpler design that they already had. The TB-3 from the Tupolev Bureau was much smaller than the K-7, with an all up weight of about half of Kalinin's design. True, we'd had none of the sophistication of the K-7, However, it was a proven concept, affordable and most important adaptable. Later versions even succeeded in towing a light tank fitted as a glider. The only time in history such a task was ever achieved, the TB-3 became a workhorse of the Soviet Army and went on to provide years of valuable work long after it's expected service life. About the time that the K-7 made its first flight, the United States Army was itself putting together specifications for another very heavy bomber under what would be known as Project A. The Boeing Company was to be the successful contender with its model 294. Not quite as big as K-7, but still a very large aircraft indeed. Entering production, the 294 was given the service prefix XB-15. Only one example was ordered because the XB-15 was seen purely as a flying laboratory to test the pros and cons of giant aircraft. From concept to 1st flight. The project actually took over four years to complete. Such was the difficulty developing extra large aircraft. A year after issuing specifications for the XB-15, the Army Air Corps released another requirement for a multi engine bomber. Boeing, amongst other companies were again given a contract to build prototypes. Boeing's XB-17 was flying within one year. By the end of 1945 over 12,700 fortresses had been built and the Second World War come and gone. By contrast, only the one XB-15 was ever completed. However, it served its purpose. Both the U.S. and the Soviets had adequately demonstrated that a large four engine bomber could be a practical proposition, but not if it was too sophisticated or too complicated. The B-17 and TB-3 were basic and reliable. What happened to K-7? In November of 1933, during its 11th test flight, it crashed the result of structural failure. 15 people died in the accident. Although the project did continue for a while with two other prototypes commissioned, they were never finished. With the TB-3 and later the PE-8 Soviet planners established the need for large four engine bombers, but not giants. Konstantin Kalinin went on to develop other ambitious aviation projects, including a pure flying wing and an advanced rocket plane. Sadly, Kalinin was arrested in 1938 and suffered the same fate as so many forward thinkers in Stalin's pre-war purge.