I am 36 years old Secretly returned to the countryside without telling his wife Renovation of an old house more than 30 years ago 38 degrees weather can't stop my heart 38 degree day The third day of renovating a 30-year-old house Since the house has no toilet So I decided to start with the toilet. Feels like this place is good Start right from here. Dig out the toilet hole first The land is too hard Difficult to dig Time goes by quickly It turns out that it is very slow for one person to do these things. Finally dug a small hole My wife doesn't like the toilet with two wooden boards So I'm going to make a squat toilet. He came then. You won't blame me for secretly returning to the countryside. Next is digging the septic tank. This hole needs to be big. This is a big project. I'm not afraid of you laughing at me This hole took me two days to dig Drill the top hole first. I encountered a problem again Too dangerous So I decided to make a wooden ladder myself. Wood on the top of the mountain Be careful when drilling holes in the tank. Avoid tank breakage The water outlet is above Water inlet from the bottom The form of water discharge from above Below is the water inlet Also put one at the bottom Used as a sewage outlet After installing these interfaces I gave it temporarily The filter tank has found a place First, closer to the spring Second, it is convenient to check the water quality after filtration There are two springs planned here. One for domestic water One for water storage Because it's winter The spring may become very small It's also a backup. The first layer of this filter I placed the pebbles And I added a stainless steel filter to each layer. The second layer is filled with pre-cleaned yellow sand The third layer is the activated carbon I bought which is of better quality After all, water is for you to drink. I am very happy with this filter so far. The fourth layer is medical stone I heard it can improve the taste Now we need to connect the spring water to the pipe. Connect to filter tank A stainless steel filter is added at the water inlet of the water pipe Filter out some of the sand My wife helped me film the whole process She was skeptical at first. Always say I'm playing house However, the next day when he saw the water had become clear He is very happy A little praise for me Next is to install Otter The otter was bought in the village Installation not included I'm not very familiar with it. So I studied it for a while. The long tube that was hot-melted at the beginning could not be turned. I cut it into two short pieces. Connect the water outlet short pipe first Then melt them together This hot melt I studied it for two days. Several joints and pipes flew off. Later I slowly found the time and technique for hot melting. It's handy Sometimes you can also melt a beautiful double eyelid Clean the otter It can be installed on the mountain. I need to put the water tower halfway up the mountain First, it is close to the spring. The second is the flat land on the left side of the water tower. I'm going to use it to raise pigs It is convenient to use water Walk hurry up My wife is fine when she is But when something happens, she It's really stupid. This otter can hold a ton of water So the bottom I fixed it with cement and red bricks Mosquito bites my wife It doesn't move. I didn't let go until I had it fixed. Thanks a lot Speaking of water pipes I borrowed the method from other bloggers. I'm also afraid that it will break if I drag it directly This method is quite useful It's just a bit expensive for my wife He has to help me turn the hose This video is coming to an end Next time, I will build a kitchen Some of them are struggling Netizens, what is your ideal rural kitchen? What it's like Give me some suggestions Someone Renovated an Old House Episode 6: Kitchen After all, my hobby is eating delicious food. The kitchen was burned out outside. This time the kitchen is in the house If you also want to go back to the countryside from the city alone Renovation of old houses Then you see how much I can do in a day I'm a real rookie. So a lot of things need to be learned by watching It's okay to be tired Mainly, there are many places where counterattacks are launched Hey, I'll cook for you. Come on, big brother ah I want to eat braised pork Finished washing the vegetables Cut vegetables here What rice cooker? Set it here Then you can turn around and cook, right? Then you can turn around and put the food here Look, put it here. Will you do it? This is too thin. So what are you going to do? I'll redo it anyway. Can you do it? Tired? tired Hehehehe I piled it on him He doesn't know Zihan, call grandma to come quickly You helped me put it on Yeah, fast. Oh my god Hahahaha Please send more I'm sending you away You send me away You don't think I'm tall Hurry up, it's almost over. Come on, bro. younger brother Awesome Come on, come on The last plate Have you gone back? Okay, hurry up. Hurry up! Walk you Oh, the pipe is not buried. Find a time to bury it. Don't freeze me. Ha ha ha ha Return to rural areas for reform The old house from more than 30 years ago Episode 7: Kitchen Continue from the previous episode Drainage holes Direct cutting without tools After digging for a long time, I found that the hole was higher. Re-drip some I'm a real white guy If you also want to go back to the countryside to reform yourself Then you see how much I can do. Remember to prepare more good tools Your hands are shaking from doing this. I feel like you're holding your right hand a little Touch, touch, touch hello Borrowing an electric water pump from a motorcycle Look at what my husband did. Not professional at all Now let me tear it all down That's it Huh Look He will wrap it around his body. You leave quickly I didn't tell you. I went to do the laundry. What a good man. Really wash your clothes thoroughly before going home This is what you sang this morning. Yes, it's me. Hi. I didn't take the photo myself. Hey, what kind of worker are you? Black-hearted worker What delicious food did you make today? Cake Hey, this dish is pretty. Right? Oh oh oh Mr. Zhong's tools are always broken. Hahahaha Luckily I called your dad over. Otherwise, we two husband and wife It's really like a pile of mud that can't be helped hahaha Boss, what's wrong with you? You see, there's no water. I have to leave work early today. It's not okay to mess with other people's things It's not a tower of water. Maybe today Well, a lot of water is used for pouring walls, right? Come with me, come here Look, look Dig a reservoir here Dig a reservoir here Ah, look here. Let netizens see Look at the amount of water here. Should dig One night in the reservoir I don't know how many packages there are How can't you see this? Netizens can see Netizens are familiar with this group husband OK come on It's almost here. Hurry up. Come on, come on Professional things are done by professional masters Being a laborer is a bit tiring You're okay You are working as a handyman for your father. I am willing Yes My husband always says his cement paste is not a wall The sand is too coarse. What kind of sand sifter is this? Are you sure it's not your technical problem? You take your time here. The sun is killing me, I'm leaving My elder brother is messing around He just won't let me play. I took a break. You've done so much by yourself. Um, what's your standard? Guaranteed Package Yes or no Big brother's tofu project is good Oh my god This is similar It's over. It's over. My husband, you are bent It's fine Why is it that only Xiaobai has managed to do something like this? Why I bought new gloves today. What do you think of your work? Practice makes perfect You'll know when I cook. Are you sure your big Chang'e is useful? Because you are so confident in your stuff. I like a man as confident as you. Hahahahahahaha Look at what you did Not moving at all I won't touch yours I won't touch yours Don't worry Is it round? Is it ok, boss? Off work? Look, it's dark outside. I don't want to use this water. You see, there is only this little cement left. Should we be content and cherish everything? Even if you don't have Look at what you did to your feet. Do you think it's okay? OK Hey, look, look Oh, I'm gonna fall. Oops, Boss You finally got off an early shift today. Your daughter is here. Returned from the city to the countryside in my 30s Live a rural life Will it be embarrassing? Today we started tiling our wood stove After thinking about it Tiling is a technical job So I invited my father-in-law over. In the Beginning Both of our parents were quite skeptical about my decision. Why did you suddenly go back to the countryside? But after almost two months of labor, They also began to slowly change their views My dad would come to help every now and then My father-in-law also started to provide technical guidance These are all from the love of parents for their children. There is no greater happiness for a man than this. Back to the countryside to work these days I feel like time is passing by so quickly I am increasingly yearning for my rural life. So as long as you dare to do it and face it There is no shame in going back to the countryside More about looking at your own efforts After getting better step by step My heart is becoming more and more stable Today is your happiest day Yes or no How can I not be happy? Family support is more important than anything else If you also want to return to rural life So be brave and take the first step Maybe people around you will have all kinds of doubts As long as you persist They will support you gradually. I will go barefoot I listened to the fans' advice and bought a lawn mower. It's really useful Swallows chasing dragonflies It's not that the houses in the city are not big enough It's not that they have few acquaintances. In the two months since I returned to the countryside I always insist on doing it myself. Try not to use machinery Many netizens suggested that I use an excavator But I don't want I just want to see how much I can do. But digging and digging Slowly began to understand Why are parents reluctant to leave the countryside? Especially in the vegetable garden This process is not just the accumulation of material It is also a spiritual sustenance Brother, your soil is fine enough, right? Look at you, you are a piece of soil. Turn it over three or four times He doesn't know that the loess has tripled Busy these days The osmanthus flowers are blooming The fragrance is a bit light The kitchen has been put aside for some time. Blow up the wall! The tool is not powerful enough It's okay. I have the strength. I found myself working I can't stop at all We can renovate our small kitchen with Mr. Zhong. Just in time to remodel our kitchen Because we did not replace the previous wall Thoroughly clean So I chose roughened paint. It has strong concealing ability The painting process is also very relaxing But I used three buckets in total. That is 56 liters But the price is beyond our budget. We don't have much money to buy. So I want to recover with light assets. Then move in at the end of the year I don't know what will happen after I return to the countryside. What will the future development be like? The plan is to do some farming. Because our technology is not very good. It is difficult to apply the rough paint to the right angle with a roller So I just used a small brush to fill the seams. Now we need to level the ground Clean out the clutter first. Then pour water on the ground When sweeping the floor like this There won't be so much dust. Mr. Zhong was alone last time. I worked all day but still couldn't level it. Then wet the floor with cement slurry. Although I don't know what use it is. But we learned how to operate it from TikTok Mr. Boss You're looking for trouble again. Huh, haha Looking for trouble What did Mr. Zhong say? He said our sand is too coarse. Need to sift But I think There's no need for sand on the ground. Anyway, if he wants to do it, just go with him. Last time, a netizen said that we mixed too much cement. This time it's 7 dustpans of sand A bag of cement Mix it into semi-dry and wet cement sand But it's our first time The mixture is too wet. Then use a ruler to scrape the cement sand flat Let the flat cement green line show first Then add cement sand Press it firmly with a grey board. Just smooth it out vigorously. Then use a level to check the tiling in the middle. Let's finish the other side as well. After learning from the experience of the morning We moved too much this time. Anyway, we both worked hard in the afternoon. Just want to get things done quickly I'm really too tired to talk. Where's Mr. Alarm Clock? He's still a dullard. Just tell me to cheer up No emotions at all This is an honest and kind-hearted man. But he is very patient. So if you are considering returning to the countryside with your husband Look at your husband Is he a boring person? When the welding is finished This ground is a bit dry. Let's put a layer on him. Thicker cement glue It's too difficult for us to apply smooth cement glue. We can only smooth it over and over again Look, he has some money. It is only natural to let professional masters earn money. You see, I have calluses from spending the past three months with him. Come and take a look. It's nice. Next is to brush the top We got it wrong quickly. You should paint the ceiling first and then the walls. Then do the ground This time the topcoat We used interior paint Although the price is favorable But it is hard work. Mr. Zhong's head kept rising. He has to hold his arms up. This roller brush was used two or three times in a row. Can't cover the color of the anti-cracking mortar I repeated it at least seven or eight times. Some of them are pleasing to the eye. I helped him fill in the gaps around the edges. Apply with a small brush Although our brush is more colorful, But it's quite satisfying. Finally, let's take a look at the comparison and finished product. Restoration of an old house from the 1990s I want to paint all the rooms white. Suddenly discovered that the natives are actually a nest of wasps Mr. Zhong wants to occupy his home Ha ha ha ha How can you run faster than me? Hahaha After driving away the wasps Mr. Zhong started working with a blank expression. Put on a mask and start cleaning the dust The house has not been occupied for more than ten years. So there are a lot of green mold spots in the room Do you remember who is on your bedside poster? I want to keep this screen king Don't waste the fish you catch. There are children at home So the steel bars should be retained Oh, there are so many mildew spots First apply anti-crack mortar to the cracked area Don't say my wife is really good at technology I chose the white color Start color grading My wife brushed it several times Can't cover these old dirt There is no other way but to trouble my wife to polish it. They were two happy painters. As a result, the anti-crack mortar broke the defense It took seven or eight times to cover it. Remember to scrape the putty first In the second room I changed my approach My wife scrapes the putty first I'll paint after the putty dries. Called my father-in-law over again Said that I should learn technology well Okay, then I'll just shut up and learn the technique. Start tidying up the living room My wife said do more work and don't talk Learned a morning of technology I'm starting to get started. I'll just say It's a fun sentence. Downstairs living room is finished My wife didn't say anything I also learned technology So we play together Remember this? Look, isn't this the ladder you use? Hahaha No Take a look at our results What is it like to have a father-in-law who is a daughter slave? Today I will show you Since last month After he helped me lay the tiles for the wood stove Always watching our every move I learned that our kitchen was painted and the floor was laid Time-consuming, labor-intensive and costly This time we learned that we were going to fight on the ground again. Bring your tools with you as soon as possible. Helped me with money saving solutions I was reluctant to accept his proposal. But both of our parents agreed Watching them save a lifetime My heart was touched My father-in-law has been a mason for half his life. He said his daughter grows vegetables here It's still possible to grow flowers If he lets his daughter grind cement A thousand displeasures Although my tile plan has been ruined But the new solution does save money and effort I have to say that the master is the master Fast and good speed I heard you were working as a laborer again today. ah Father-in-law is in charge I am willing to be a happy little worker My wife started showing off Um Finally I'm a lady Why Two years old Oh! Hahaha Yesterday I saw my father-in-law hit the ground a few times and it was done. I thought it would be easy to let him rest. As a result, my wife and I And my dad took a whole day to finish it My daughter thought I built him a playground. I moved two bricks and danced with joy My wife can't even straighten her back while applying cement He was so angry that he called his father-in-law to come over and do it. Geiki Send you your daughter's flowers You've worked hard Hahaha My wife started showing off again Father-in-law is in charge She became a concubine again Brother, you are still a little weaker than my dad. I'll show you the waterproofing problem. Waterproof membrane The tiles were replaced a year ago. Take this opportunity to repair the chimney Slow down. Slow down. Slow down, husband. I'm getting stupider and stupider Can you believe I didn't spend a dime on all my doors? All of them were sent by my father-in-law. I also tried the old door I didn't expect it to be good in the end These are the things my father-in-law did when he was decorating his house. Removed Now I have brought them all to my home. My father-in-law also helped me install it personally My wife has been a noble lady for several days. I wanted to whiten it all. It turns out that it looks better with a bit of black A bit like rosewood twilight So I decided to wear some black By the way, I smoothed the steel bars. Help me find out what color is better for steel bars I plan to paint the door frame with copper oil But my wife doesn't like it Said it smells too bad Finally, let's take a look at the results I don't like it at all And my dad also let me paint it red My husband seems to have seen through my thoughts. He told me that his father-in-law also wanted us to save some money. Let's just stay But don't worry I will make it beautiful for you. I want to see what he can do. He spent the whole day polishing the door. He said it was too dusty. Just let me take a video. I didn't expect that this old door would look so good after being polished. Look at him, he's covered in dust. Hey, my husband hurts himself Help him grind it together I didn't expect the magic door to be so stress-relieving talk After grinding the door, you have to grind the windows Our old friend is visiting again. I remember Mr. Zhong sent me off warmly with a note The steel bars in the kitchen are seriously damaged. Not easy to repair Fortunately, they were all rejected Chasing dragonflies Can't see in the night sky See We disagree on the strong group Uni-President simply gave him all the bonuses. Let me show you my parents You want to paint white Oh my god It will definitely look ugly. Please swipe the one below to show you Okay, okay. I don't know where he learned his aesthetics. Putting colors on the steel bars Mr. Zhou I can already imagine how ugly it was just now Don't keep hitting me. You want to say it? Husband, you are awesome. Hahaha More than just a lot of steel bars There are colors that I can't describe. But Mr. Zhong assured me that It will be beautiful after it dries. I know when he said these words I don't have the confidence Hey, tease him first. It's too ugly. Ha ha ha ha I accidentally made him autistic. But Mr. Zhong spent the whole afternoon brushing his brush in silence. I started to doubt Is there something wrong with my aesthetics? After the brushing, Mr. Zhong asked me to check my hand immediately. The bottom of the eye is a little white Waiting for him This time he mixed the paint color himself She also told me that it must be better looking than the one downstairs. But he kept painting. Why do I feel so wrong? It's quite bright. Don't girls like bright colors? It seems that he was silenced again. I didn't pay much attention to me afterwards. I haven't paid attention to him for a long time. Forget it, my husband will suffer for himself Help him brush it. Lost some Too alive What are you doubting yourself about? I found him depressed. I feel a little sorry I had to help him find The door frame is too dark Continue painting the door frame upstairs After I praised him a lot His mood also improved. It seems that my husband still needs more praise to be obedient. The brush is pretty good At least energetic Originally the guardrail was painted dark gray Found that the doors and windows are not big Tested a floor paint Just paint the floor on the guardrail I have been back to the countryside for 3 months Although our technology is not good But he stayed with me Help me do things Shooting Video Recording our efforts together The house was once in tatters. Slowly transform into what you want Although I don't have a good sense of beauty But my wife always encouraged me Makes me energetic I went back to the countryside with my wife to do some breeding business. Considering that there are old people and young children In many places, we save as much as possible. Except our kitchen costs are a bit higher No other places cost much The vegetable garden was created by myself It was a gift from my father-in-law. My father-in-law helped me grind the cement. But cement is not pretty. Not easy to take care of This time we found a way to save money and effort Apply water-based epoxy floor paint to the whole house I didn't expect that I would be quite satisfied in the end. Before water-based epoxy floor paint To build a good foundation on the ground I use a high pressure water gun here Cleaned the floor If possible, you can smooth it out. It will look better. My wife bought two colors. A light grey painted floor A dark grey painted skirting Apply a layer of primer to the floor first Can improve ground adhesion It turns out that applying primer is so simple Wait two hours for the primer to dry. Apply water-based floor paint The first coat was already very even. Wait until it dries before applying a second coat. Mosquito chasing dragonfly Night sky view Before the second time Tidy up the front yard My wife also started painting the skirting boards The brown-gray color he had been dreaming of finally came true. After the sky cleared, I saw a rainbow Just smooth the wall Painted both interior and exterior Full of stars I am quiet Finally, paint the interface Make the floor wear-resistant and dirt-resistant I chose the matte finish. Look at my results.