(creator laughs menacingly) - [The Unknown Mask] What is the unknown? - Do you know that Amazon Prime recently started hosting - Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the ultimate - Ha-ha, AI bad. (whimsical music) Let me be absolutely clear on something, I was recommended this, but it was my mum's Prime account. I don't even watch documentaries. For me, arguably the worst part of this is that they had the gall to open this AI-generated with a notice leaning into the fact that they know it's a trash AI product. Like they couldn't even grant They had to turn around and be like, &quot;Oh, actually, we know it's bad. Ha-ha, goofy, funny, silly, parody, ha-ha, silly fun parody. We know it's bad. It's not a silly fun parody. It's the end of the world. - Released on Amazon &quot;Eternally Twilight: An AI's is an hour-long robot documentary that you can purchase for $5 or, here in the UK, eight pounds, which is $10. - So throw on some blue eyeshadow and get ready to howl at the moon. - Now, I've said this before, but quality is subjective, dependent on the taste and preferences of each People talk about things like &quot;The Room&quot; or the Bob Hoskins &quot;Mario&quot; movie, and they say, &quot;I enjoy this, and I don't think that's strictly true. I think, on some level, It has an appeal to you, and usually the distinction is more that the things you don't really think were deliberate. At the end of the day, artists don't get to dictate you enjoy the thing, and that's Maybe you don't even enjoy it, but pain and pleasure have And in that case, may the mighty one have &quot;Tim and Eric,&quot; &quot;Xavier: Renegade Angel,&quot; &quot;Tails Gets Trolled.&quot; Time and again, artists from ironically enjoyable entertainment to create absolute masterpieces. - This isn't the tribe for civil (head clangs) - I don't think this is that. - [Narrator] Bella is a shy, who moves to the rainy and falls in love with the mysterious and brooding Edward Cullen. - This, to me, is worthless. Clearly there was a last-ditch attempt to reframe this as some kind of satire, but I don't think this beyond maybe the first 10 seconds. You laugh for a minute about or the mangled AI script, and there's another 59 while a monotone AI voice of &quot;Twilight,&quot; repeating itself five or six times over as it slowly reaches the Did you know that for its depiction of unhealthy - The relationship between Bella and Edward has been criticized for its lack of healthy communication and the way it idealizes an The romance in &quot;The Twilight for its unhealthy aspects. This portrayal has been criticized for its harmful message Some critics have argued that the series promotes The relationship between Bella and Edward has also been criticized - Did you know that Would you like to hear that And you know because it's AI that if it even comes close that's because it's ripping directly from an actual human writer The AI didn't have the thoughts. Robots don't have thoughts. I'm robot racist. I Daft Punk were the last good ones. People have criticized for being monotone and repetitive, so that's why I'm trying a lot of different voices in this video. That's why I'm trying a lot of different voices in this video. Wait, you've been messing with my bees. Stay away from my bees. Also, that's Squall. Why are all of the Edwards Squall? - [Narrator] The Twilight of artistic styles and has led to the creation of some truly beautiful works of art. - This film was distributed by a Filmhub, a service that allows independent artists to put their work out on at low or no cost with So, in a way, this is democracy. Filmhub is not something I and it does seem to serve an obvious need, though I have also seen some artists claim they were not fairly compensated for work distributed through them, so your mileage may vary. It does have a loose content policy that &quot;Eternally Twilight&quot; but I'm not a cop. There is, however, also a policy against which I guess is the reason the other AI-generated by this YouTube channel were That's right. I found the channel, despite the fact that the credits on the Amazon Prime page lists the standard, I'm too embarrassed to put You can just go there and find the &quot;Twilight&quot; if you feel like watching that. You can also check out one of on occult knowledge and - [Narrator] Reptilian law and conflicts, technological leaps, even in global policymaking. - Which, for some reason, don't have the ha-ha is an AI which I guess means that to be taken at face value. - [Narrator] Some argue that many of our political and our celebrated figures are or under their hypnotic sway. Their true purpose hidden beneath layers of power and influence. - I'm not part of the so while I would get the impression that if that's something you would care enough to kind rather than just asking an AI to make this garbled version of it. Maybe the important thing is We also think this is still that mostly just exists to an indie studio that does write and produce their own original work. I know the grind. I do think it's slimy to if it is just for engagement. I do think you should also of the work ripped by AI art generators by attempting to sell merchandise of your YouTube thumbnails. But this is where I kind of petered out. This is the second time now on my channel that a random media experience has led me to likely AI generated online deep state conspiracy theories. - [Narrator] They are brainwashing and they are doing this on the orders of the Chinese government. - But in the case of Moon, that was a fairly influential channel with over a million subscribers, not this. Everything you've heard so far digging into this particular rabbit hole, and this is pretty much Frankly, I don't want to become a channel that just makes whole videos calling out random, obscure creators. I find your theories problematic, and I do not subscribe to them, Also, who even cares It's not like some big and make some big, three-hour-long video, starting up the discourse about it again, like, move on, you know? So I told myself I'll and if I found a good link or misleading AI, maybe A day later, there was a You might be asking. &quot;Wow, Jack, that's so unfair that you have to pay those extra $5 to enjoy the AI 'Twilight' Well, it just so happens I have a tool to solve just that problem, I will give you $1,000 if you still do not know what a VPN is. A tool that helps you around the globe and unlock media from all over the world. I can access 15 different limited streaming services I can watch &quot;The Bear&quot; now, and when I travel, I can encrypt my data and feel that bit safer on public wifi. Surfshark maintains a that helps you feel secure Their app's for all platforms, PC, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS, smart TVs, Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV, and best of all, you get a if you decide to head and try out Surfshark today with the promo code onscreen now. Go to surfshark.deals/jacksaint to access one of the most affordable and reliable VPNs today. Once again, that's Thank you. Have you heard about the I can't stop thinking about the Glasgow Willy Wonka Experience. (ominous music) Ha-ha, AI bad. The basic gist is that since around early an event planning company what they called Willy's an enchanting world where This full immersive experience is designed for families and children, promising a day of pure Tickets were 35 British pounds, which is 45 American dollars. With AI-generated images and to give a vague impression that awaited attendees. An imagnation lab, encherining entertainment. In the end, the event Come with me And you'll be - We got in, there was maybe a few tables, a - It was that bad, it was funny. My boys were, they walked &quot;What the? What is this?&quot; - [Filmer] Oh, look, - The company's name, House of Illuminati. The reptile strike again. - [Narrator] Sobek, the crocodile god. (siren wails) Celebrity news. - Setting a scenic venue in advertised features included The whimsical performances and sweet delicacies, which in this case took the form of a quarter can of lemonade and a single jelly bean per child. Now, given the fact that the with misleading AI images, can we also assume that the blog posts advertised by an AI text generator? Yes. Performers were also given up to 15 pages of gibberish AI script, leading to my absolute favorite The villain of the show. (heartbeat thumps) (heartbeat thumps) - What is that? It's the Unknown. - The Unknown. There is a man, we don't know his name. We know him as the Unknown. This Unknown is an evil chocolate maker who lives in the walls. A human being had to say this to children. I do actually have the script &quot;Ah, Willy McDuff and his You have something I desire, and with your unwitting The Anti-Graffiti Gobstopper will no longer clean your worlds, it will turn them to A technology intended to benefit people, being used to cause pain and misery. What an interesting concept. This event was an obvious travesty that wasted a lot of people's time and may have traumatized - [Child] No. - [Jack] It really can't be overstated how hard the performers involved tried to salvage this thing. Even when the guy who ran it explicitly tried to disrupt them doing so. - We generally did feel so bad and that's why we stayed. We stayed because we felt bad. - Kirsty Paterson and Paul Connell, and all of the people that tried to handle this and also money. (glass shatters) that the Glasgow Willy Wonka is a groomer. Crowds of enraged Glaswegians with some- - [Employee] Because you - Nobody's died. - Okay, if you don't receive a refund- - [Filmer] I'm gonna call the police. - So the House of Illuminati guarantees- - [Filmer] The House of - No. - The police were called, all future dates for Even now, House of Illuminati is fighting in the Facebook minefields, apologizing and making sure everyone knows that Richard Bone played no part in this, which is exactly what Richard At the time of making this video, many refunds are still pending, and many outlets are to turn this meme story into something with a coherent message It's me. I'm outlets. Most of them have landed on of this story. Coull himself has tried to argue that a lot of things fell that would've brought the event closer to the expectations set by the AI, including a delay in postage that meant they could not receive a special holographic paper. What kind of magic paper was this, Billy? And why was it not worth paying It seems abundantly clear that there was no way this event was ever going to remotely or AI-generated description, and frankly, it was a bit of an enigemic, vivue standard to me, but things go deeper than that. (tense mysterious music) See the story of Billy Coull seems like one we've particularly with the recent popularity of AI-generative technology. A man so in over his head that you can't help of how deluded he is when much like some other popular YouTubers that have already been and I'm far too gracious I'm sorry, I can't help it. Shad, what are you doing? What's going on? Shad. Shad, I don't think as your brother, Shad. - We have our strengths and weaknesses, and you know what my I'm at a professional - Please, please, please, Shad. There's still time to accept the door. - Freaking asshole, I am an artist. He thinks he is better than me. - It's easy to write off as just a man stumbling across a website while trying to put It's not even the only to advertise the event. You can go to his blog and plainly see images that he just ripped from Here's a YouTube channel he just ripped a low-res thumbnail from, but Billy's ties to AI In fact, Billy has used and self-publish over 17 That's right, we're back here. His works include a 300-page novel about a historian uncovering cryptic messages in the heart of the Vatican. You might think this sounds somewhat which is interesting because one of the main characters' who is the main character Would you believe if I said that Billy Coull publicly cites Possibly because he told based on the Dan Brown and then didn't bother to check that the AI put a character from &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; in the book. His other works include &quot;Set against the backdrop and echoes of antiquity, Emily's exploration takes her on a quest that transcends the Guided by the hidden verses, she traverses the science, and philosophy, uncovering a legacy that could of our understanding.&quot; &quot;The Prophecy Matrix.&quot; &quot;Guided by prophecies, Amelia finds herself entangled known as the Order of Chronicles. Dedicated to preserving the order becomes her ally and forcing a group determined for nefarious ends.&quot; Billy also uses AI to That's right, we're back here. &quot;Operation Inoculation: Unveiling the A Conspiratorial Journey into Vaccination Truths We have reached unfathomable horrors. &quot;'Operation Inoculation' invites you to confront your own beliefs, question the narratives that surround you, and ultimately consider the power of truth in an ever-changing world. They feed us poison, so we buy their medicine Hang on. At the end of the day, I'm bad at making videos quickly, and there's a good chance that by the time I put this out, everyone will already be very much sick of talking about Willy's - Mainly out on Monday, (sad trombone music) - So, what's the point? There's already been some fair takeaways from this situation. You could wrap it all up in the neat bow of AI's false promises. People were sold an exciting prospect, and instead they got a Much like with the advent of NFTs, what we're often seeing is laymen who barely even understand the technology rushing into exploit people in the hopes of a quick buck. This is the consequences of Sorry, I'm getting used to like distance from the camera, so the duck's been out of the shot. I'm really sorry about that. Ideally, it's a warning that if you see any or writing as advertising, there's a fair chance you're and should probably back away slowly. I think you should also consider that are hiding behind this technology, who are either willfully or just indifferent to beyond what might make them money. - $2, 30-day trial, financially free. How good does that sound? - Again, kind of like NFTs, but this is where I keep feeling like I'm gonna alienate because I really can't and AI are not really the same in part because NFTs have and if they do come back, they'll be in a very different form. Going back to &quot;Simpson's&quot; references, I don't think that AI I don't even think it's the mascot Treehouse I think AI is here to stay. We've been seeing stories as companies have been and market lazily made We could be talking about an obscure wedding planning company, or we could be talking about Disney, who have already started You can't tell me AI didn't It's easy to focus down on a person who fundamentally and will very likely live of his decision for some time. A man with financial needs I've never hosted a but I've certainly done It's easy for me as a media critic to see the onslaught of and poke fun at it. - Hello, my name is Princess Jane. I would like to show you some tricks. I hope you enjoy it. (audience cheers) - Even as it slowly becomes but I think sometimes that can be a way to ignore a deeper existential dread surrounding this whole conversation. Sometimes I feel like when I'm not looking at like a Wonka-like Sometimes I feel like is the unknown. You know the unknown. Automation is not a new thing. Human labor being replaced is an integral part of human history. You could even argue that as an expression of us, Is there really even a difference and robot workers. Right now, yes. Pretty clearly as massive layoffs in a range of industries are at massive financial risk, forced to retrain in areas for the sake of corporate trends. This is the reservation I've Something I expressed in my which the robots told and I should have done a video instead about &quot;Nightmare Before Christmas&quot; theory. See, the most important thing for me is that the people making and a piece of technology that allows you to essentially step over them to get to the art that they make seems pretty unavoidably terrible. - Discover the talented Welcome to a digital realm where art meets advanced technology, and the barriers to entry have - You know the take, AI art and writing relies on and writers almost universally all for the sake of replacing of their own work. To that end, the media hot Willy's Chocolate Experience for the false promises of AI. The Glasgow Oompa Loompa and a screencap of a broken may as well be one of the same, and as more technology-illiterate whole industries will be their own encherining moment. Maybe there is just a selfish where I too am replaced like - It's important to engage and to recognize the ways in which even beloved works of fiction can perpetuate harmful - Maybe in &quot;Eternally Twilight,&quot; I'm just seeing a kind of like a black mirror. This is like an episode of &quot;Black Mirror.&quot; There once was a time when it would always be safe from automation, but I can't see that anymore. Lawyers are now being replaced with AI, but again, this is not a new thing. Billy Coull didn't need AI to YouTubers don't need robots Companies don't need AI to cut costs by replacing human workers Not long after I arrived in the UK, a 2000's post office scandal after a show on the Essentially, the company Fujitsu, which managed accounts of sub-postmasters used faulty software sending thousands of into financial ruin. Over 900 sub-postmasters of stealing from their own communities, convicted of various crimes and at least four suicides. All of this because of shit with no human consideration. Ha-ha, AI bad. For something that seems so simple, something that seems I have a lot of thoughts. I really don't want to who thinks we're inevitably where everything's slop and reality can't even be trusted anymore. I also don't want to act like like I can't see the that we seem to be sliding into. This is also something I Quality is subjective. KnowledgeHusk brought out a recent video where he pointed out how surprisingly quickly AI art generation is reaching the point - [KnowledgeHusk] It's showing and cause and effect. Things that would normally but it's just doing it with visual data. It seems to suggest that the is a little bit more than a I'm not saying it's gonna You shouldn't panic. Don't go out there into the streets. Don't smash your Roombas. Not stealing your job - It's arriving, and we still have time to but we do still live in an economic system built on cost efficiency over humanity, and that leaves a lot of the people this technology is Some people have argued that of how human culture has always worked. The individual always being as we amalgamate the I don't think art is just the result of these great minds and producing these great Everything comes from - [Both] Do you think you just - But as long as there is repetition, there is difference. New things happen, life occurs, and as this new thing happens, I hope there's a part that can look past the easy jokes and truly be ready to face the unknown, (thunder cracks) and stay away from my bees. I wanted to give all sides a fair shake as I round out this conversation. So I brought my dog as a representative of the animal kingdom and I've also asked ChatGPT for the benefits they have to society. &quot;As a tool developed by OpenAI, I can offer several benefits to society, information retrieval and language translation, problem solving, accessibility, innovative applications, continuous learning and improvement. It's important to note that ethical use and consideration of potential limitations of integrating AI Sherlock? Sherlock? Sherlock? Okay. Thank you for watching my video. If you like it, please consider sending me or signing up for my Patreon, where I put out regular You could also be one of I'm sorry if this topic is already dead by the time I got to it. There are several new videos in the works, but I did want to get this Like, subscribe, share the video so it isn't a disaster like the last one. Leave a comment. Maybe I'll do a follow-up video. Mysterious tease for elemental critique. Oh, wait, hang on. That Repeating itself about five, repeating itself about Repeating itself about Repeat. Repeating itself. (gentle whimsical music) - The power of evil will by the power of good.