It feels like everything is falling apart. The planet is simultaneously flooded and on and fascism is rising. We live in an age of crisis as capitalism, the state aim to retain their stranglehold My generation faces a future of profound uncertainty, food and shelter--are becoming increasingly Movements of various political flavours have the machine seems to continue unperturbed. For those of us who haven't completely given for ways to change our trajectory. We want to know what we can do to help. Our situation calls for real change. It calls for more than just resistance. It calls for revolution. Social revolution: what anarchists propose economy, culture, philosophy, technology, Of course, that would be illegal, so while As we all know, legality is what determines However, if we're operating in the world of social revolution. If our characters are facing apocalyptic collapse change, the answer is social revolution. Now, people have a habit of conflating revolution A lot of works of fiction make this mistake, of the Storming of the Bastille during the image of revolution in popular culture. A final climactic showdown between the masses The smell of smoke and gunpowder in the air. The roar of a bloodthirsty crowd. The burning sensation of tear gas overcoming Eventually, success comes with the replacement A lot of modern day wannabe socialist and to this misconception of what a revolution The way they talk about revolution as some after betrays that kind of mentality. It's practically millenarian, as though Karl Marx to bestow the capital-R Revolution But if you're trying to write a realistic modern day setting, then as Alexander Berkman to alter the whole character of society." In case you didn't know, anarchism is a opposition to all forms of hierarchical control can freely cooperate together as equals. The social revolution that anarchists seek themselves in the process. It is not a sudden flipping of the switch, drives, and consciousness. Social revolution is an ongoing process, not Social revolution is heterogenous and dynamic, It may be punctuated by major ruptures and informed by a variety of strategies built goals. It starts here and now, developing people's A social revolution takes years of social and creating new ways of living. In a phrase, a social revolution requires This is a hopefully comprehensive guide to [TITLE CARD] requires the cooperation of multiple people. One potential form that cooperation can take Affinity groups are small groups of anarchists to the wider culture. Their work requires a combination of actions in the realm of education, where affinity consciousness of systems of oppression and Additionally, affinity groups seek to develop in mass movements, unions, and communities their own affairs without hierarchy. Affinity groups may host workshops and skillshares connections in their communities. Within affinity groups, folks can fill different promotion of ideas through literature, music, media, and other forms of political art. Don't underestimate the potential ripple can have on the broader zeitgeist. Political action to oppose can generally be of confrontation, which require less people which require more people but involve slightly Technically speaking, acts of noncooperation vice versa, but doh get tie up. They're imperfect categories. Let's begin with acts of confrontation. Protests are a very public form of sometimes that anarchists may utilise in order to raise and well. Protest, when executed correctly, is a sign and against what authorities want them to However, protesting is very risky. Even nonviolent protests can be subject to or from the agents of the state. Organisers have been assassinated, gone missing, Plus protests don't usually have much control to the highly developed propaganda machine Alternative media organised by affinity groups but they can't always compete. Still, political protest in the context of and necessary to resist oppression. Keep in mind that anarchists' engagement lobby those in power for change. The lobbying approach typically results in where the masses below do the work and take rub shoulders with politicians and lose touch Lobbying requires compromise, while anarchists of a radical movement can produce reforms The Zapatistas were able to gain and maintain even a "progressive" government, does is scared of losing all of its power. Rather than expending time, resources, and movements can focus on building up a real direct forms of action. Direct action means working to accomplish or representatives as intercessors. But crucially, direct action requires a security from the law. Again, I'm not advocating for anything illegal, works. A security culture is an instinctive set of whose members may be targeted by the government, The central principle of security culture sensitive information they do not need to Don't ask, don't tell. Don't make it easy for your enemies, don't put yourself or others at unnecessary risk. Alongside support networks that can lend transporation the underground railroad, having a solid security illegal actions that seek to directly confront Obstruction refers to any actions that movements the operations of those in power by making with their intended actions. Using sheer numbers or shrewd strategies, blockades to eviction resistance to the disruption activities that are damaging the environment Another usually temporary tactic is occupation, infrastructure such as factories, transportation public squares, parks, and empty land or housing where protestors may reimagine and transform to public need rather than state or corporate If sustained and defended, occupation can the workers occupations in Argentina during of self-managed cooperatives. The Reclaim The Streets movement is another have "invaded" roads or highways to stage up the space we have lost to car-centric infrastructure. Land and housing can be secured, cooperatives and the commons can be reclaimed through sustained Expropriation is another example of direct food, medicine, money, supplies, or equipment people. Historically, many affinity groups have engaged in order to finance their revolutionary activities, New Afrikan anarchist Kuwasi Balagoon was order to fund Black Liberation Army activities known for his practice of expropriative anarchism. However, sometimes revolutionaries seek sabotage Whether merely threatened or actually carried or other political activities has a long and From individual acts of sabotage during slavery transit, and energy infrastructure that helped Indigenous activists in Canada sabotaging Lastly, there are acts of confrontation that repeat that I do not support. This violence can be either offensive or defensive, but ultimately it aims to make being a rapist, politician a very dangerous position to be In a society where the power-hungry already people will gain their freedom by overthrowing defending against those who seek to re-impose of self-defence, because the freedom anarchists others. Organised militias will be necessary to defend [SKIT 1] Antoine: "We've done it, they're all the tyranny of the grasshoppers! Workers of the anthill unite, we have nothing Antony: "They can exploit our labour no Now we can build a better anthill, without Lenant: "Yes, let's build a better anthill. You over there, start gathering fruits for beetle we found a few days ago." Antony: "But wait, but who died and made I thought we were gonna run this anthill horizontally, Lenant: "I'm no boss, comrade! I'm a worker ant just like you. But you see, even though the dictatorship need a dictatorship of the worker ants in You should read State and Revolutiant. Don't worry, all ants are equal. Eventually I, I mean we, won't be worker Antony: "Uh, but I think we should-" Do you want the grasshoppers to come back? Stop wasting time, go and gather food for Narrator: A few months later, at the People's Antoine: "Can you give me a leg? I'm carrying food to Chairant Lenant. I hope I made quota this week!" Antony: "Sure comrade, but, shouldn't It feels like the grasshoppers are in charge Ant 1: "Comrade, don't you remember what All ants are equal, but some ants are more Ant 2: "*sigh* Maybe we should have prefigured On the other side of the "oppose" coin social, or economic. Like I said before, these could also be considered just categories, however imperfect. Strikes are perhaps one of the most well-recognised action, but people underestimate exactly how There are different types of strikes that and target different segments of the system. Labour strikes are a mass refusal of workers Labour strikes can occur in a specific workplace, strike, across multiple industries. Strikes can be organised and called for by approval of unions and with significantly For anarchists, wildcat strikes are necessary nature of some unions, as very few unions due to the rise of the high-turnover, atomised are unionised. Strikes are born from the recognition that around. Particularly for movements with radical aims, strike can play a powerful role in the rupture of the means of production. However, it isn't easy to achieve a general Alki made an excellent video on the topic, from a mass grassroots coalition of radical It won't be achieved via Reddit.. Student strikes bring together affinity groups specific classes or entire student bodies without waiting to be legitimised by the channels Students can use their campus as a space to spaces to strengthen the autonomy of students a kaleidoscope of academic possibilities. Rent strikes are a method of resistance tenants refuse to pay rent. They can operate as part of an effort to occupy particular demands such as better conditions A rent strike needs three basic elements in tenants, outreach to build numbers and therefore both legal support and physical support against Taxpayer strikes, or organised tax resistance, Governments have always struggled with tax effectively to supplement protests against movement, against the colonial state. Debt strikes are a method of collective debt debt dogma and free people and communities Organisations such Strike Debt purchase and Jubilee program and organise debt strikes a method of mass financial civil disobedience. On the consumer side of things, boycotts are resistance. Though not as effective as they used to be, nature of today's capitalism, on a targeted if organised into mass movements and undertaken consumer boycotts can have some impact in Then again, boycotts don't have to be limited Leveraging numbers to apply social sanctions Other acts of noncooperation may also include and insubordination for soldiers and other shunning of class traitors, scabs, racists, systems. Between the acts of confrontation and acts believe that pretty much exhausts the "oppose" Now we can turn to the side of social revolution and build alternatives. Today is the shadow of tomorrow Yesterday is the shadow of today And the light of the past is yesterday which is the deliberate experimental implementation infrastructure, and practices in the here-and-now. The anarchist argument for social revolution be linked in important ways, but that they Today is the preview of tomorrow. Thus, it is vital that organisational practices forms. That means developing people's powers, drives, to anarchic social change. Powers refes to people's capacity to do Both individual and collective powers are especially social contexts folks find themselves Therefore, movements must be structured in needed to organise horizontally and spread There is a strong connection between powers relations and the drives to establish and by social contexts. Lastly, consciousness enables people to contemplate Radical education helps people to develop better understand, assess, orient themselves Now let's talk prefigurative politics. Mutual aid must be a foundational concept Put simply, mutual aid is a form of political for caring for one another and changing political of reciprocity, and communal autonomy from Mutual aid may involve work to support people alternative infrastructure. It can take the form of ride sharing, disaster as you'll soon see. However, those engaging in mutual aid must material relief, avoiding legitimising oppressive and accomodating marginalised groups. Mutual aid is not meant to be charity. It must actively cultivate liberatory skills, In Anarchism and the Black Revolution, Black Ervin wrote about the need to create survival and working people facing life-altering conditions. Survival programmes are based in a specific get together to meet specific needs in their consciousness, and eventually popular assemblies. A popular assembly is a free association of of self-management. Popular assemblies allow community problems directly, drawing upon the ideas and experiences debate. Decisions may be made via consensus or through democracy, majority vote, or supermajority Within a popular assembly, affinity groups in an coordinated manner. The town of Cheran in Mexico provides just where the community armed themselves, kicked government, and organised popular assemblies Popular assemblies will need to network and and revolutionary organisations in order to For example, communities will need to develop Urban agriculture might be able to supplement agriculture provides a more robust alternative Community-supported agriculture or cropsharing within the food system without a middle-man harvest of a certain farm or group of farms. For the purpose of revolution, cropsharing assemblies to develop an alternative economy. A cooperative is simply an autonomous association social, and/or cultural needs and aspirations organisation. Cohousing cooperatives deal with housing, including food, healthcare, transportation, deal with finance, including potentially financing deal with websites or apps, and utility cooperatives community or region. Makerspaces, codingspaces, and cooperative in revolutionary projects, bringing together and find solutions to the issues raised by As I discussed in my videos on the library the commons is absolutely vital to revolution. In brief, the commons refers to any collectively such as a community land trust, a local forest, Revolutionaries can engage in building full-fledged This can take the form of tool libraries, libraries, and more in an effort curb overproduction, to an irreducible minimum to all. Revolutionaries can also establish childcare Free schools are autonomous, non-hierarchical skillsharing. They reject the subordination of students that promotes critical consciousness across From nursery through college, in community spaces, learners and facilitators can collaborate system that can dispense knowledge and skills Free children beget a free society, and education Communities must also develop methods of conflict Mistakes and disagreements are inevitable, deciding, and resolving conflict and incidents and individuals in a healthy and effective or conciliation. Community defence against domination and abuses of responding to harmful behaviour. How that manifests is subject to much debate reserve that discussion for a future video. [SKIT 2] A radical few who chose to maroon But they left the city and its working class Utopia was the goal, but they couldn't be Solidarity made impossible between the commune When the time drew near and their comrades The commune folk didn't help, at all" G: "Hey T, it's me again, we're down and we could really use some of your aid, T: "Wassup comrade G, you know we'd love week and we've been trying to fix our place. Plus we're setting up a new irrigation system, don't have the time to make it downtown But I promise you man, we'll be sure to G: "*Sigh* Okay T, but you know this is What happened to solidarity forever?" T: "Yo, of course, man, of course, solidarity But we're just too busy, you know? Don't worry, we always got love for you, down for us here at the commune, but for now NARRATOR: "But year after year, there was Why the commune folk couldn't partake in They shrunk to the background, doing their Until the phone of revolution, no longer did A year or two down the line, money got tight were in sight." T: "I think we should start a farmer's NARRATOR: "Before long, these radicals took A bed and breakfast was born, with the money Book a stay, one and all, at the Breadbook You pay for your room, the utopia's free But they forgot to oppose and they lost their Oppose and propose. Propose and oppose. Confrontation, noncooperation, and prefiguration. A variety of organisations and individuals strategies in a variety of settings in concert Supporters unable to directly engage helping Ultimately, the social revolution is a movement their own freedom. It is an ongoing process to make society more Expanding pockets of social change around could be are made known to all. Remember that even in struggle, it's not Revolution can and should be fun--a carnival It's about making life worth living. It's about emancipating people. As Emma Goldman said, "If I can't dance, Remember that "It always seems impossible All power to all the people. Peace. [SKIT 3] time. These days, me and some friends of mine have some new irrigation systems in place in the our own food year round. It's good to have, you know, the farming cooperatives also want to make sure we have built our resilience the versatility and complexity of our local Our cities have gotten more walkable, our they've been so interwoven with a diversity And it's just been a treasure to breathe air Look at how far we've come!&quot; &quot;Man, I hear that. Who would have thought that a little bit of a little elbow grease from people that cared 9-5s to running workplaces by us and for us? Now we have access to the commons, where we with the people we love. Honestly, it's great.&quot; &quot;All that's cool and all guys, but personally There are still systems of power that we need We still don't listen to women as much as as much as we should. There are social intricacies that we have have a better tomorrow.&quot; &quot;I agree, I mean we made it so far already. We revolutionized our education, our economy, The way we engage in politics is so fundamentally And yet, there's still work to be done, there's to uproot. And yet, I feel like we going in an positive &quot;We're going to get there.&quot; &quot;When you say it like that, I have hope.&quot; &quot;Hope for the future like never before.&quot;