This time I will introduce a very nice pizzeria. The craftsmanship that Japanese pizzaiola. &quot;My encounter with Neapolitan pizza changed my life.&quot; A man who loves pizza and lives for it. Make pizza dough. The flour is CAPUTO's &quot;SACCOROSSO&quot;. Mix the yeast and brewer's yeast with the flour. Add flour. The amount of flour varies every day. Especially on rainy days. I can't make it with the same amount of dough as yesterday. Depending on when you add the powder, the finished product will be completely different. It's a living thing, isn't it? Really. If you don't pay attention to it, it will end up looking completely different. The amount of water is the same, and the temperature is also important. All factors are important. I have to bring it to the best point while paying attention to various elements. I think that's what makes it interesting for me. Ultimately, feel is the most important thing. It's not something that I learn by being told to &quot;do it this way&quot;. That's so cute? JKT) It's plump. pomodoro sauce. mozzarella cheese. tomato cut. basil. Prepare the stone kiln. From now on, He will work with his wife. Because there is a fire, Heat enters the pizza dough with far heat. It's like a distant heat that heats up slowly from the inside and finally burns the outside until it's crispy. After all, with electricity, fire enters from the outside, so the outside will inevitably become crunchy. make bread. Olive oil. Standby for pizza dough. I used to be a hall staff. Working at a hotel. I was in as a wedding staff. I had a lot to do with the kitchen, and before I knew it, I started working in the kitchen. It's a wedding kitchen in a hotel, so I get to touch pretty good ingredients. I thought, &quot;That's interesting.&quot; So I quit college. My parents were very angry with me. It's finally open. He got an order right away. Make &quot;Pizza marinara&quot;. Spread pomodoro sauce and drizzle with oregano. garlic. fresh tomatoes. Top with basil and drizzle with olive oil. The other one is &quot;Pizza Margherita&quot;. A popular pizza made with tomato, mozzarella, and basil. &quot;Marinara&quot; means &quot;sailor&quot;. This pizza was loved by Neapolitan sailors. The next order is &quot;Pizza panini&quot;. First, roll out the pizza dough into a square. Cut the stretched dough into two pieces. Panini ingredients are tomato and lettuce. It's a fresh vegetable. mozzarella cheese. Take Prosciutto. It seems to be surprisingly edible. Then another Margherita order came in. Pizza Margherita was born in the 19th century. At that time, Queen Margherita of the Kingdom of Italy worked diligently on the dissemination of art and culture and preparatory activities, and was said to have been very loved by the common people. One day , a Neapolitan craftsman made a pizza to entertain her when she visited Naples . The pizza is red, white and green, just like the Italian flag. It is said that this is the origin of pizza margherita. The next order is pizza calzone. This is a slightly different type of pizza. Top with mozzarella and ricotta salami . Sprinkle with parmigiano and olive oil. Then wrap the pizza dough. Add more pomodoro sauce. It's baked. It was hot and very delicious. (I ate). The next order is the popular &quot;Quattro formaggi&quot;. &quot;Quattro formaggi&quot; means &quot;four cheeses&quot;. If you like cheese, it's irresistible. Mozzarella Ricotta Parmigiano Gorgonzola. Top with basil for added flavor. It looks so delicious. The last one to introduce is "Pizza al CUORE". It is a pizza in the shape of &quot;something&quot;. This is a heart-shaped pizza. Mr. Miyahira seems to handle pizza dough easily, but this is a skill that can be achieved with many years of training. done. Thank you for your wonderful performance. When I put about 6 pizzas in the kiln, you think, &quot;I'm doing it!&quot; When pizza dough is lined up here, opped and put in the oven repeatedly. I feel &quot;I am alive&quot;.