Welcome to HelloTech's YouTube channel. Your one-stop-shop for tech news, how-tos, and product reviews. I'm your host Caleb Cabiness, and today we're going to learn: What Is the Difference Between a Router and a Modem? Modems and routers are both essential devices for connecting to the internet wirelessly, or "Over WiFi." Sometimes they are combined into one device, but we'll get to that later. For now, here's everything you need to know about the difference between a modem and a router, what each device does. And do you really need a modem and a router? So, what's the difference between the two? A modem connects you to a wide area network (WAN). Which is a fancy way of saying the great, wide area that is The Internet! A router connects your devices to your local area network (LAN) -- which is your WiFi network. Local here basically means YOUR area -- your home or office network. This lets your devices communicate with each other wirelessly. Without a router, meaning no WiFi, you would need to plug your devices directly into your modem. Your "mobile" phone wouldn't feel so mobile attached to an ethernet cord. Basically, a modem is your gateway to the internet, while a router is the central hub for your devices. Think of it like a big train station. You enter the main terminal and you can see all the arrival and departure times, everything's in one place. Entering that big first room, that's your modem. Then you have all the rail lines and underground metro links that take you in different directions. That's your router, sending signals -- or, in this case passengers -- off to their destinations. Great, that's the overview. Now, let's dive a little deeper. A modem is the device that receives a signal from your internet service provider -- that company you pay each month for your internet. However, this signal is analog -- could be cable, fiber optic cable, or telephone wire -- but it's not usually digital. Your digital devices, such as computers, smartphones or tablets, need a digital signal. So, your modem translates that analog signal into a digital signal that your devices can understand. It also does the same thing in reverse when your digital devices need to make a "request" of the internet, like to, let's say, open your email. In short, the modem allows your devices to send and receive data -- these signals -- over the internet. Most modems only have three ports: One that connects to the internet, one that connects to a router, and one that connects to a power source. Moving on to routers - what do they do? Basically, a router is a networking device that distributes (or routes) your internet connection from your modem to the devices in your network. This allows you to connect to the internet from your computer, mobile phone, smart TV, smart fridge, and other wired or wireless devices you have. The router assigns all your devices an IP address, so when you try to open a website on your computer, it opens on that computer and not on your phone, or your TV, or any other device. Think of your IP address like the number you get when you order food at the counter. That number allows the server to bring your food to your table, and all the correct orders to each table by number. A router also creates your local network and lets you manage its settings. So I can create my own network, give it a funny name if I want, and password protect it. Then when I connect my smart devices to that network such as my printer, or even my air conditioner or heater system only other devices on that network can connect to those appliances. That way my neighbor can't crank up my heat, and no one can use my printer unless I give them access to my local network. And I can control everything connected to my local network right from my phone or any other device on that network, like a voice controlled smart hub. "Hey, Alexa! Run my robot vacuum!" There are many different types of routers, but the two most common are wired and wireless routers. Wired (or hard-lined) routers need to be connected to your computers and other devices with a wired Ethernet connection. WiFi routers use built-in antennas to transmit your network's internet signal wirelessly. Most routers have several Ethernet ports that allow you to connect to your devices via an Ethernet cable. They also have one Ethernet port that needs to be connected to a modem so it can send and receive information from the internet. If you're in the market for a new router, check out our list of the best routers for any budget linked in the description. Finally, do you need a modem or a router? It's safe to say that you will need both a modem and a router if you want to use WiFi or connect multiple devices. A modem is a must. Without a modem, you will not be able to create connections to the internet. Technically, you could connect to the internet with only a modem but, since most modems only have one LAN Ethernet port, you could only connect one wired computer. And -- and this is important -- it wouldn't provide the same security that a router does. So it really is not recommended. Furthermore, a router is essential if you want to connect more than one device to the internet or you want to use WiFi. With that said, these days, there are devices that come with the functions of both a modem and a router, all in one. So you don't necessarily need to purchase both. I personally use a combo modem/router at home, and it works great. Check out our list of the best combo modem/routers linked in the description if you're interested in learning more about these. And that's it! We hope this helped answer your modem and router questions! Make sure to like this video if it's been helpful and don't forget to subscribe to our channel and head to our website for more tech tips and tools. This has been Caleb Cabiness with HelloTech.com - thanks for watching! :)