- This is a bird feeder, and everything to my left is my attempt at making it squirrel-proof. If they want the bird seed, they will first need to pass an eight-part &quot;Ninja Warrior&quot; This course is extremely challenging. It is not for the timid of heart. But out of the gate, I will admit that in hindsight that I completely Now if you're wondering why I would go through all this trouble, we need to go back eight weeks ago when I found myself stuck So I installed a bird feeder and decided to become a birdwatcher, and it was just so lovely (record scratches) Now, luckily, my bird feeder big enough for the birds to slip inside but small enough to prevent the squirrels from getting the food, and that worked really For me, this was like the when they realized the And once the door was open, it was clear this wasn't They basically cleared this by the end of the day. Mind you, this bird feeder was advertised as being squirrel-proof. So I bought another to replace it. It's got this outer cage and so if a bird comes and lands here, it doesn't weigh that much and it has access to the seeds. However, if a squirrel comes, Its weight will force the springs down, thereby preventing access to the seeds. I have no idea how the squirrels could but let's see. And this one work exactly as intended. You can see the birds love it, but when the squirrel comes along, the cage shifts down and now all the seed ports are covered up. Every time they tried, However, the next morning, this guy manages to unclip the springs that hold the cage up, which means the cage stays where it blocks all the seed openings. Problem with that is now But this bird feeder to give direct access, so he goes with a different tactic, (bird feeder clanking) (birds chirping) where he now has access to And so I decided I would try Okay. Wow. It almost feels intentional at this point. This one's supposed to work well because it's got this baffle, which is supposed to keep the squirrels from just coming straight and more importantly, there's no way for them to rip this off. We'll see. This one debuted to similar results. As he hangs by a few toes, this is when I really started for what they were capable of. It definitely seemed like this bird feeder was their favorite. Okay, yeah, they're And at this point, a plan but just to be thorough, I moved the post away from the fence. And I can't say I was surprised nor was I surprised to and down a small metal pole or even a large one for that matter. And whether they could climb was a moot point anyways because of this! Look at this! These guys are basically freaking And on some level, this is what it felt like from my porch that didn't belong to them, and I harnessed that indignation, spending a year designing the - Hello. (glitter bomb whirring) - [Mark] Complete with special fragrances. - Aw. - If I could design a could I design a bird And so after a couple designing, and building we put it all together in (upbeat music) (aerosol can hissing) (metal clanking) (drill whirring) Here are the basic elements. For starters, here's where I've placed at the end of the course. And to sweeten the deal, right below that, there's a trapdoor. And if they step here, it releases a butt-ton of walnuts and unfurls some celebratory banners. Why walnuts? I'm glad you asked. I'm using walnuts because I put out a buffet of seven And all four times I walnuts were always What's great about placing this here is it levels the playing and get as much food as they The squirrels, however, because the only way to is if they work their way through my eight-part &quot;Ninja which all starts right here. This is the only platform on the course that has a pole that isn't which means this is where to enter the course. If they try and get up any other way, they can't keep a good grip and they just slide back down. So the first challenge is Now, this may look easy, but the trick is it attaches And from a physics standpoint, that makes it no different than trying to crawl across a tightrope. It's the same deceptive principle with that one carnival I broke it down in another to show which carnival and the science on how to beat them. Next up, the Maze of a Thousand Corridors. This one's a bit more cerebral, but if they make it through that, it will bring 'em to which are inspired by the show &quot;Wipe Out.&quot; But unlike &quot;Wipe Out,&quot; I should point out that all these contraptions and even with a little back force, they will break away and stop spinning. Now, if they can make it past the Pitchfork Tumblers of Treachery, they come to one of my personal favorites, the Homewrecker. (romantic music) I put her in to tempt the on the real prize at Because this pad has a and it connects to a microcontroller that has a relay that that connects to a pneumatic piston that connects back to this platform with the pressure sensor, and so if they stand here they've gotta start the Next up is the Slinky Bridge of Deception. I've suspended a juicy but there's no way this bridge So it'll be interesting to The sixth challenge is It's actually a bit of a If the squirrel sticks their head through this board my wife painted, it's just a photo op of their tiny squirrel nest. I'll place a walnut here as an incentive for them not to miss The penultimate challenge are the Quad Steps of Great Elevation. This is taken straight and this is super tricky because these pads are all totally smooth and placed at a 45-degree incline. And now for the last challenge. At this point, they are a near few feet away But if they're not careful, they'll have to deal with aka the Final Countdown, aka &quot;It's not a catapult, which means they now have to go back and start all the way Now, if they wanna avoid that fate, they just need to stand on this pad for less than three seconds. But once again, I've This one projects an optical illusion of anything you place in It's actually super trippy and looks even more because the projected image is 3D. They're like nine bucks on Amazon, and I put a link that of how they work in the video description. Now with regards to squirrel safety, I know I seem to have this reputation of (fire sizzling) (glass shattering) (people screaming) improvised high-speed projectiles, and so this one might worry a including my wife. We have five pets and one child, and the child was the So rest assured, I can adjust and we'll be staying way that could hurt any of our And so, finally, after we're back here at the world's And as far as I'm concerned, they've earned the right for as long as they want. And so after nearly a month of prep work, the course was officially (lighthearted music) They could smell the walnuts and you could see the gears turning because right above that was And so before long, we (bright electronic music) That didn't exactly go as planned, so Rick decides to regroup. Speaking of which, that's Rick. There are a total of four competitors that will be attempting the course. First up is Rick, and he weighs 500 grams. I know this 'cause he's actually standing on a custom-made scale. Rick is very clever as but he also gets spooked easily. Next up is Marty. He's basically Rick and Marty are inseparable and pretty much spend all Our third contender is Frank, also coming in around 500 grams. He's very gutsy. He's also kinda dumb. Finally, we've got my He's just really charming and will strike a pose He also really likes to eat, and he tips the scales at While most of the squirrels before making a selection and then gracefully leaping away, Phat Gus just goes for it, hands-free, just makes himself real comfortable. Here he is laying out with a light snack from the bird feeder. I mean, you can't fault the guy for just clearly appreciating a good meal. So now that you know our four contenders, let's get back to Rick. So he hops back on, and he's actually doing Mm, just barely. This is the best because he's like, &quot;Okay, I got this. Nevermind. Well, maybe I, no, I definitely don't.&quot; And this was the exact moment I realized I just might be outmatched here. (playful music) Marty was watching Rick and, after a quick dip adopts his strategy right out of the gate. Ooh, so close, but an excellent recovery. And Phat Gus, perhaps predictably, which brings us to the Maze which, to be honest, they Here's a solid run from Phat Gus. And now for the Pitchfork Marty was like, &quot;Yeah, Phat Gus is just like, &quot;Abort!&quot; Frank is just like, &quot;Nope.&quot; Then he's like, &quot;Wait a second. Mm, still nope.&quot; Then Marty flies in real hot over the top. He didn't make it through, but that's partial credit And then here's Phat Gus with (bright music) And then Frank shows no fear, which helps him pull up And finally, Smart Rick essentially untouched. And I should mention, the squirrels were most so every morning I've been to start filming from in my house, like one of those camouflage only like a suburbanized version. I've also had a handful of which has allowed me to as we have the world's worst guard dog. Thanks for the help, pal. Now back to the Homewrecker. You could see Rick is of this gold digger and only for a brief on the platform. I told you he was smart. His buddy Marty, on the other hand... She is a cruel mistress. And because I know my no, this will not hurt the Number one, they are amazing like cats and always land on their feet. And two, they themselves were jumping from this height all the time, and in some cases, much higher. In fact, squirrels are that can survive a fall from any height because they make their You can see it right here. They make their body as flat as possible, then put their tail back to increase drag. They basically become their own parachute. And then right before they land, they pull in and fully to act as shock absorbing landing gear. This is so cool. Now back to the course where even Smart Rick which is exactly when she strikes. But just like all the after a day or two, they'd mastered it. In this case, even disregarding her Now onto the Slinky Bridge of Deception, and this was the sleeper That is not a large gap, but having the slinky there You can see how much and he's the brave one. And Rick only jumps when Marty shows up for emotional support. But like all the obstacles so far, after a day or two, they'd mastered it. Now onto our third to last and this one was just a freaking delight. A little peanut butter (camera shutter clicks) (playful music) Now here comes Phat Gus. And I mean, how Phat Gus is this? He sees the camera and he's like, &quot;Paint me like one of Yeah? No? No takers? All right.&quot; Here's another classic Gus where he looks at the Play that back, and freeze. Zoom, enhance. (record scratches) (air whooshes) (lighthearted music) Well, turns out Phat Gus is which meant I was suddenly about all those weight comments. So after a bit of a pivot we soldiered on to the Quad Frank comes in rather but he pulls off the smooth recovery. So after not much time at all, they were looking pretty good here. In fact, one morning, I noticed Marty totally skipped which I took as a challenge, and so I removed the middle And who else but Phantastic Gus? Let's slow that down a bit. They're such amazing jumpers, so I suppose the quick mastery I mean, this right here is And here's some classic He'd already entered the course normally and made it to the Homewrecker by this point, and yet for some reason, he decides this 12-foot jump And Smart Rick was the first So in the end, after it was fitting he was the one to make it to the jackpot first. And he's so stoked he apparently wants to run In hindsight, we probably should have made Here's Marty, as always, not far behind. (light music) He's also a bit flighty as you know, which worked against him here, because down below, Phantastic Gus, ever the opportunist, comes through with the But pretty soon, Marty comes back like, &quot;Um, I'm the one who kinda earned that.&quot; And then Phantastic Gus is like, &quot;You snooze, you lose, sucker!&quot; And might I just say, Phantastic Gus, when you sit like that, you don't look an ounce over 700 grams. Eventually, they learned and they'd quickly return for their reward before Phantastic Gus got any ideas. So here's a single camera And by the end, all of them in less than 40 seconds. And while we're watching, you might be wondering what Unfortunately, they didn't but I'm about to show you And as a promise to my wife, I turned the pressure so the acceleration is about half a g, which is 10 times less than Additionally, I never turned on either the Homewrecker when I wasn't actively where I had a manual override button, because as safe as it was, something about launching Phantastic Gus just didn't feel right. Now what you're about to see But when we check the slow-mo, amazingly, I'll show you how the squirrel is totally in control pretty much the whole time. All right, now here's a second angle. Also, even if you don't I can assure you that the In both launch cases, they were back up on the Here's the slow-mo, and see if you could spot the to make sure he lands feet down. Did you catch it? The first critical moment is right here. He's already done the predictive math, and he's locked his head on the And now his head will not lose What's crazy is the time it takes him to do all the predictive math to know exactly where he will land and to lock his head is 300 milliseconds. That's exactly this long. Literally less than the blink of an eye. That blows my mind. But if you think about it, it makes sense these to be razor-sharp if you live your life in the trees constantly making split-second decisions. Now, besides picking the the second trick is with his arms. When he wants to keep his he has his arms out. But the moment he wants to he tucks them in. And then when he wants to stop rotating, he extends them out again. This is straight up conservation It's the same trick ice skaters use. Basically, bring your limbs extend them out if you My buddy Destin from Smarter Every Day also made a video analyzing on their feet, and they do the exact same two tricks. The head target lock and bringing limbs in to rotate and out to stop rotation. (air whooshes) So this may look like but the slow-mo tells a different story. In that amount of time, he's already made a slight and locked his landing We know from the previous to any orientation, but he doesn't in this case because he sees his small for the perfect landing. That's just so cool. And so after those two I disabled both the Launcher and just let them enjoy As far as I was concerned, Plus, after spending a month together, we were sort of bros by this point. If they saw me coming out to work, they would certainly jump away, but then they'd just And sadly, all good things And because I didn't want them to develop an unhealthy after about a week of free But in its place, I put up a specialized Every morning, this door opens to as a little treat to remind Although I had to laugh somehow I didn't anticipate on day one Frank would immediately try and figure out and partially succeed in finding Like everything else though, and now on some mornings, I'll catch them just waiting chilling patiently on the bench seat, that is, everyone but Phantastic Gus. Don't ever change, buddy. When I started this trying to bird-watch, I had no idea I would enjoy It's also made me realize that and pavement and power lines, how interesting nature can be if you just really stop to look. Even the plants are amazing! I had no idea that as vines grow, they spin around looking I didn't anticipate the that use fences as inner yard highways to get around as a substitute before we got here. Even little interactions like with this very timely leap into the unknown were But of all the animals, I can definitively say now that squirrels are my absolute favorite, and they're certainly a than porch pirates. They're kind of adorable, incredibly crafty, curious by nature, athletic, and persistent. Turns out, squirrels can and so I like to think that someday, Phantastic Gus will bring his and regale them with tales and legendary walnut piles. (lighthearted music)