Alright, we're checking out the only game where the worse you It's Draw Joust. and then utilize that to murder the person That's what Draw Joust is. What you do is you You go ahead and purchase things more power, and you go ahead the person is basically sitting on. I like that at least they gave me this bulldozer plow on the front. Alright, Attila the Hun is going to go flying off the arena. I was going to say, my car is coming apart This is fine. This is working out quite good, actually. I think I just gave him brain damage Oh, I get a cannon on the front now? Let's see here: Better tires, horny helmet, different body. And actually, it looks a lot like me Not like that, you know, like. Great. The guy I'm fighting is going to be inside of the left Actually, I kind of wonder, if he's in the realistic looking heart, I didn't actually have enough juice I don't know if this car I didn't have to do anything! My kid did it all for me. Okay. Any time I can buy ink. I'm going to buy ink. Don't ask. I just kind of So this is what I came up with. The fact that it's holding together We are going to murder Player2869. Dr. Yeetson reporting for duty. Told you- Oh, and into the water... Ah, we're up against a slice of cheese. Can I get a burger done? What happens if I don't have I'm going to back up that big forward If I jump into the water myself, I was just going for a swim. I'm literally up My opponent's name is just Apple... I can kind of connect these and get Can I just feel like You absolutely can. It's a little dangly! Now, if you notice, he's fine. as if, though I just stabbed him But it's on the side of his. His chair. My opponent's on a Dorito. I'm going to be on a bigger Dorito. Go! Dorito power!!! I had no idea Doritos are not the superior shape of chip. Kind of like- Kind of, like, this shape. There! That's a- Oh yeah! This looks good. Okay, so now I have a boss fight More power. More. How come? It seems like What if I just draw an unhappy face? Draw that- Hold on. Well, there's one eye. And then here's the other eye. It doesn't look like an unhappy face. It just looks like a judgmental face. I'm sure it's fine. Okay. This is not- I guess we're going for the wheels. Okay. So far, so good. Some money just popped All right. Oh, yeah. Oh, where? This is the most awkward fight in the history of this game. Here goes, and we'll get our money. Oh, it's delicious. I found a cool way to beat this guy- Oh, all right. Don't mind me. Just doing a backflip. No big deal. I found a cool way to beat this guy- I can literally just, like, jump over him, Watch: I can, like, ramp myself upward. There it is. I almost went flying off the board. I love how my audience is like four people Here. There it is. Oh, it's like going fishing. Alright, I ranked up, so now I got this better sword. Okay, so my guy just kind of limply lays He's going to go flying over the vehicle. I wonder if I can make him jump *groans of pain and shame* Oh, the spear is I decided to draw a giant baseball bat. The baseball bat is driving This is so concerning. Get off! pal. Yeah. Uh, I They kind of look cooler than mine, Oh, yeah, that's nice. Now I look like I'm I'm just going with something simple. Just to see if, like- Well, maybe simple wasn't the best idea. Okay, let's- There we go. And I'll make This is totally going to work. Extra connection. Oh, yeah. Oh, now we have true power. True! Ultimate! Power! I'm gonna draw human fist. There we go. There's the wrist. A couple of knuckles over here. This is perfect. Oh, the human fist works incredibly well. Okay, sweet! I finally get a canon. Right. Connect all that and write Blast them. I can just sit back I got, like a- This kind of looks like the infinity sign. I feel like an infinity sure that he's roped in here to utilize in battle, The infinity sign I'm actually going to fall on top of them. All right. I don't know what these are. We're going to buy What is this? I need I'm not here to look good. Ready? Come here. Come here! Okay, now I can buy the spiky one. Right there! G for Gray. Unfortunately, it happens to be made of spikes, Yeah, alright, you're afriad. You're afraid of my spiky frame. Come here! My car is gonna eat you. It's like chowing down on a Big Mac made of humans AHHHHHHH!!!! What is this? Don't ask me why I decided to draw a spoon, Spoons got some good aim, though. Yep. There we are. I wonder if I can draw an octopus. Which next to a squid I mean, so there's one tentacle. The other tentacle, third tentacle, Fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh. And he kind of ran out of tentacle power. So these other two tentacles That's what happens All right. Tentacle vehicle versus just a Okay. Oh, yeah. We're doing all right. We're kind of working up Kind of have to. Yeah, kind of have to go Oh, yeah. Oh, we got. All right, now, I don't want to kill him to spear- There it is!!! Well, guess what? In Florida, Oh, I get two weapons I wonder if I can get the mouth It's kind of like a mouth. This thing is so awkward, I don't want you real meaty. All right. There it is! What is this? This is basically No more help, I guess. More power. I'm just drawing, like, You'll understand. I ran out of layers. Oh. Oh, it's awful. Okay, you can get. I don't think you can get subscribe. You definitely get sub. Actually. No, I've got some ink left over. Subscribe versus Oh, wow. Doing the giant F for Florida. Here it is. Connect all these wheels. All right. Now, I think that this is probably, like super heavy. this extra thing that kind of connects So that doesn't just limply fall to the ground. Yeah. This is working. It looks awful, but it's totally working. I told you- I want these spiked tires. A few seconds later, We go the backwards p right like that. In fact, I'll make my P slightly wider Now this just looks like How you like my spiky tires? Uh-oh... But in fact, that's how I'm going to try So, like, for this we're going to want to connect these two. And then honestly, you could just do this See that right there? All right, now shove them upward. Now, look at this. Look, look, look. Oh, no, no. Don't fall on your head! Bunch of scribbles. That's all I need. There. Wait for it... And there, he's upside down. Now let's work this in right there. Well, the sword is so big that I kind of This guy has a bulldozer, but Like, I could just go like this. There's my my shovel thingy. I go like this. I do have to connect that and then kind of come down into a coat Yeah, this should work. I have a bulldozer. Look, it's working out perfect. Your wheels are really cool. But first- Awwww, come on! Let me get my little prod I need to probe you. What I'm going to try is just like that one fish that kind of hangs Do that and then build I think this is all it really needs, Oh no.... Oh, this turned out to be a way worse My wheels are not working Oh, God. Oh, my wheels are actually No, I have no wheels left, but roll, roll. We can still win this. Don't you ever give up, Doctor Yeetson. you took out like $400,000 in medical Okay, this is a terrible idea. I love it. When I did poorly, I feel like a dollar bill sign like this. And then you got the other dollar I feel like this is a really strong shape. Oh. Oh, yeah. Uh huh. I think he may have stabbed himself He's like, I don't wanna be a part I have no engineering skill, and I think that's My opponents never think that I'm going I'm kind of curious if I don't if I don't at all touch the guy so he can kind of rest Like that right there. So there's nothing really holding him He's just going to fly around I have to catch him, though. I can't. I can't let him fly Can't believe how well I'm doin- I got a taste of my own medicine, How high can I go? But I can get pretty high. Oh, can I connect this? Oh, no. The two wheels are not connected. Oh, God, I think it still counts as connected, though. Look at how- My car is holding my weapon for. It's like, come on forward. I have something for you. Oh. Oh, my wheel just did the work My wheel almost murdered that guy on his own. I'm going to try and win, like- I'm going to try and win with this battle Here's a fishbowl. See if I just yeet them off the side, that works. What if I draw, like, Like, how's the double ball formation? This looks pretty strong so far. The infinity sign is The double ball formation is close Boss fight with Jerry. What a name. Can I finally get the yeet in. Come on. You can do it. Oh, it's happening. This is 100% happening. We'll never give up until we have the- Oh. We'll never give up until we have the yeet on our side. I don't have a oh, I do have a weapon, Just this one time. I need your help here. Okay. This is kind of going to be a derpy yeet. That's fine. That's how the yeets are made. Okay. This looks awful. My car is kind of but the yeet exists, You can't beat the power of the yeet. You can't beat the power of the yeet. I will whip this yeet on top of you violently. You ready? Watch this! I want you to taste it. Taste the yeet. AHHHHH!!!!! the full unhappy face I just threw my battle ax at him. I didn't even have it connected. That was incredible. What is this? It looks like a Valentine's Day box The time has come for the most powerful shape in the whole world. And I finally have enough ink to do this. Maybe seeing gray. It's the state of Florida. We don't need hearts where we're going. Come on, Florida! All right. Part of Florida This is a realistic problem we have here. I am slowly giving this guy a lobotomy, Come here. We're having a half off sale Let my blade taste your flesh. Oh, his sword fell. Oh, sword's coming back with a vengeance. There it is! Well, it turns out in the whole world is actually a state. Anyway, hope you enjoyed this episode of Draw Joust.