I have actually climbed ice I did it as a joke, but there are already so, no, that dagger would not work. My name is Will Gadd, and I'm Red Bull athlete from Canmore, Alberta, and I've been ice climbing Today, we're going to be in movies and judge how real they are. You wouldn't be climbing because if one person falls off, you're kind of all going to die. Simul climbing is a tactic you use on relatively easy terrain, like, maybe 50-, 60-degree terrain, and it's just in case something It's high risk. It's not something you and you definitely don't want to do it when you're scaling the side You get cracks like that that go really frightening distances. I've had it fracture, So it's a bit exaggerated, I saw that scene and I was like, ah! But most ice climbers don't You kind of have to be weird to go there. OK, it's totally unrealistic but at least that part was kind of real. Oh! Stop, stop, stop. OK, so, that rope does not stretch. They would be cut in half, or they would break every It's like a steel cable. Imagine hucking yourself off a building tied to a steel cable. It's just not going to go well. So, modern climbing ropes and they elongate and specifically so you don't This is not a survivable situation, and that's just assuming could actually hold the They would get yanked off so fast. When you're hanging on a rope in space, it's really hard to generate Pretty much impossible. I've So it doesn't matter how you just sort of end up going in a circle on the end of the rope. It's one. This is totally unrealistic and never gonna happen. As a mountaineer, when you self-arrest, you flip onto your stomach, which buddy doesn't do when He would've stopped this really fast if he'd just dug his toes in right away. You know, his pick is just the whole time when he does self-arrest. Somehow it holds in that situation. Hang on! I always love it in scenes like this when they say &quot;hang on.&quot; Like, what are they gonna do, let go? It's super sunny out. Why are her sunglasses on her head? She would be snow-blind There are so many things but that's almost the You'd definitely have your sunglasses over your eyes at this point. And when you break a cornice When you get a fracture in You don't get kind of a And having been in that I ran the other way at speed. You're like, &quot;Get away from there.&quot; And she's like, &quot;I'll Not really what you OK, so that's not going to work. You're not going to put your pick gently into the snow and It's just going to rip through like crazy. Maybe if you pounded and it were ice, you'd get, you know, a sort of OK emergency anchor, but no. That's not gonna work. I've done things like that, jumping from one desert tower, You can do things sort of like that. What you can't do is fall, let's use the most 30 feet vertically and stick your ice tools into rock and then not completely blow both your arms out of the sockets. Say you can hang on to the ice tools. Like, let's say that you got the juice, you can I keep picturing this while his body is somewhere Like, that's what would happen. You would just rip everything out. It'd be like, pew! It's in the negatives. Like, if the other ones are one or twos, there's not enough room Galadriel: And the This terrain is really cool. So if anybody knows where please send me an email. I'd Galadriel: I wish I could be one of them. She seems very nice, That dagger is not going to It could be kind of like by pushing the axe-head into You gotta swing it. And there's You just can't move fast enough. This is designed to swing It's got a razor-sharp point on it. It's a weapon. You want this, not the ice-dagger scene. That is just flat-out not going to work. You certainly couldn't jump laterally, stick it in, and not die. All this metal, that's gotta be so cold! She's got, like, chain mail on her head. She's going to get frostbite from that. OK, where's, what are they hanging on to? Hang on, stop for a second. But that person has their hand on the ice, and then look where the It's just dangling. Like, You want to have that in your hand. You're not just going You can climb ice without an ice tool, but if you have one, you're But I just loved how the ice It's like, &quot;Ah, we don't need ice tools.&quot; That's something that's in ice climbing, is you have to think about where the ice you That's, like, ice-climbing 101. I have seen this happen in real life. It's usually involving ice You gotta put the belays out It's really important. And then they get hit and they're like, &quot;Oh, mate, you hit me in the face with ice!&quot; It's like, don't stand in And then in terms of the yeah, we're down in the So, I really like this one, because this one actually happened. BASE jumpers have hucked themselves and gotten stuck on cliffs regularly. You know, my friends on here where I live and they deal with this not, It's, like, a couple times a season, somebody's going to do this somewhere. This has gotta hurt your foot. Like, there's a knife in there. I can't see this going This is not a good idea. But yeah, and I have actually climbed ice with a steak knife once. but there are already so, no, that dagger would not work. You need about 2 centimeters to climb it in a vertical I'm pretty sure with, you'd probably need a bit more than that. That ice looks more like almost or just very thin ice. And, yeah, that's not gonna work. But I love the creativity. I've actually had this happen! Sheep do show up in climbing areas, and they're a real hazard because they knock rocks off on you. I actually almost got killed this way. This herd of sheep showed and they're running around up there, and they're knocking rocks off. And we all had to run into the cliff. The sheep don't move like They don't have crampons on their feet. They're not moving like this. They're really good, but OK, hold up, hold up. What he's just found there is actually one of the biggest hazards that you can't see in ice climbing. You kind of have to develop a feel for it, and it's called an onion skin. And what happens is you get and then the water from the and it makes a new layer of ice. So it's got snow underneath, and it'll make layers, just like that. And this is a little overdone. Ice doesn't just fail like this. I actually had something where an onion skin broke, and then kind of wound up running in place as this onion skin shot So, it's not exactly like this, but it, you know, kind of realistic. Ice-climbing instruction level was poor. I'm gonna go three. You can tell by their that have actually ice climbed. I think one of them is my It's pretty old school, and they're hamming it Legs are out like this to the side. You don't normally ice climb like that, but it looks good on television. I have done that exact move where I can hear the director yelling, &quot;Get more limb separation!&quot; That's the classic line. But their feet aren't blowing. about shoulder-width It's like in any sport. When your feet go way out to the sides, bad things are going to happen. So, I think in this scene, they're training for the Mountaineering is about getting but you gotta have skills different sort of mediums But in terms of the this is all pretty realistic. You might not be doing on K2, but you'd be doing The whole camera is tilted And you can tell 'cause you can see the They're not hanging down the right way. They're hanging down toward They're kind of using weird combinations, and so they've got a and a longer mountaineering And the technical very organized for the whereas the mountaineer and more focused on generally speaking, than hard-water ice. But it's just tools of the trade, and they're all meant for ice and snow. It's not a huge stretch. If I had to rate it, I'd It's pretty accurate. That is in France, and it's in the world, so they but it's definitely not the [phone rings] Hello? Phone: Ms. Woods. Pleasure That is just anatomically to take a phone call, like, ever. It just makes no sense. You'd be either pulled and her tool is junk. Like, if you're soloing, that Most ice climbers will solo meaning not use a rope. The difference between soloing is a lot less than the difference between using a rope and not on rock. Ice climbing, the goal is very, even with a rope, because you've got all and if you fall off, they tend to catch and either impale you or break your legs or flip you upside down and then you break your you don't fall off in ice climbing is kind of the general rule, but you want to use much better technique and tactics than is going Phone: Represent Weyland Industries. Ice is really strong. If you've ever tried to it's really hard to get off. It doesn't all just break and catastrophically fail all the time. So, yeah, it's a good medium to climb. So, she's not hitting in very good places, and I can hear the director saying, &quot;Hit the ice one more time, and make some spray go sideways!&quot; 'cause I've done that a lot. Ice climbing in movies always And it is dangerous, but you You know, wear a helmet, use ropes, get qualified instruction. In terms of technique and tactics, it's, like, a two. Not happening. Interestingly, I think they on how to ice climb. Their tools are staggered vertically. His tools are completely buried. If he put them in that deep, he's probably never getting them out. Like, he's going to have to But if you look at his right hand there, it's not on the bottom of the tool, it's on the handle of the tool. It's really, really hard to just hang on to the straight pipe of the tool. You gotta get down to the That's what is for your finger. So, quite clearly, there is no ice climbing He's not hanging off that tool. He's just standing there The ice-climbing tools are This is just, like, eyes glaze over, move on, as an ice climber. OK, stop, stop, stop. I love this one because it's not even an attempt to be realistic. There is a thing in climbing you do called a self-arrest, but you That's what you wear in the mountains. Just, like, your Timberland or whatever they are hiking boots. That's what you want for You know, obviously not really. You probably want something and maybe some crampons, That'd be helpful. You use your tools on rock all the time. So, mixed climbing is where and it's a natural part of You have to do that to get up peaks, and it's become its own I've climbed huge overhanging That's totally legit. You just don't get to do that after you've been free-falling I love this scene. This is the ultimate combination of parkour and ice climbing. This one hit the climber forums out there, and everybody started 'cause it's totally, And at the same time, it's so ridiculous it's just kind of awesome. Like, it's ridiculous and it's laughable, but it's not even trying to be real. What he just did there, that's athletic. He's having to deliberately blow his feet and make it look bad. I've taught a lot of and if you can climb a I have not found that pushing my students or guests off the top is When I teach ice climbing to people who want to get good at it, because often you'll climb go the wrong way, and be like, I can either hurl myself or I can downclimb and So it's a really good skill to have and, honestly, it's not practiced enough. That's probably a nine. My favorite ice-climbing I think that does a pretty accurate job of showing it, for the most part. Honestly, I'm just stoked in a movie, 'cause it's If you enjoyed this, please click the link