Hey everyone, as you all know I enjoy debunking and today we have a two-for-one. We will the self-appointed leaders of the intellectual so let's have some fun with it. the term before, these guys are prominent members actually having been coined by Eric himself. out with is the intellectual The dark web of course being the place where not really the most sparkling connotation. But the the seedier and more repulsive they seem, so it recent debunks on Terrence Howard, you've heard me more to discuss here today, including a special Unity. But let's start with younger brother Bret has a doctorate in evolutionary biology years. He was catapulted to prominence Here's the popular version of the story. "Day of Absence" where minority students a statement about racial issues. In 2017 it leave campus instead for that year's Day of saying that you can't force people off campus students threatened Bret with baseball bats, the and Bret became a hero overnight by standing Of course the reality is totally different. activity where all students could attend and this year was no different, it was simply that with the off campus site only able to accommodate expected for all white students to attend, nor had past. None of it had ever been school-sanctioned, making them feel unwelcome, and nobody threatened these events in his own correspondence, who were protesting a full six weeks after the and instead went on FOX News with Tucker Carlson exact same vibe as the "War on Christmas". white people leave campus or else! Oh my gosh! Because of the FOX piece, enraged neo-Nazi repeatedly driving by and shooting guns into the the school's graduation had to be moved off-site 3.8 million, settled for half a million and his podcaster and darling of the right. about the current state of the left. Where else have we seen this story before? Ah a stand against PC culture? Cartoonishly to manufacture some kind of authoritarianism to the conservative news cycle to launch himself behind a false flag of free speech absolutism? played the reluctant martyr and victim of nasty distorting the facts, putting students and were targeted with harassment and death threats He allowed Tucker to state that white people The core demand is that all people He pretended protests were all about a leaked of two black students by campus police and he kept amplifying these lies on Twitter of Bret Weinstein, a demagogue from the start, for personal gain with no remorse whatsoever. the real focus here. During and shortly following through a series of appearances on, where the hell sufficiently amplified by these appearances so Bret began dishing out consistently garbage sun on his own DarkHorse podcast that he hosts biology at Evergreen. Much of their rhetoric of baseless anti-establishment talking points, So what are the main topics he needs to for the Bret half of the video. First up, Bret's According to Bret, and also his brother Eric, that was stolen from him to win a Nobel prize. To telomeres are. Telomeres are sections of DNA that The evolutionary impetus for this is that every because of the way that replicative the last few bases can't be read. So the new nucleotides shorter than the template strand. This long as chromosomes are, with many millions of and cell division would eventually result in therefore new cells that can't survive. Evolution which are around 5 to 15 thousand base pairs long stretches of repetitive non-coding DNA at happens as the tips are continually eroded during when expressed, is constantly at work adding to keep the telomeres intact as long as further replication can begin to erode actual is called senescence. Ok, so that's what telomeres We actually have a kind of concern about arises from the fact that in my graduate work, as will know, my graduate work, I happened onto what I published this flaw, and the flaw basically like drug safety testing and other experiments by the breeding protocol that is used to produce repetitive sequences at the ends of chromosomes potentially very large impacts, effectively these so that if you poison them but you don't outright capacity to fix themselves, whereas we have Yep. Bret says that because lab mice all the drug testing on them is invalid and all There is so much stupidity to unpack here. First, logic, is that all drugs go through clinical So it's mice first, then other non-rodent animal always. This fact alone renders this entire idea people before people can buy them. So even if lab we would catch it in other test subjects. relevant to what Bret is talking about. He's telomeres do is prolong the duration of to the onset of senescence, they aren't some biological process. Telomere shortening Telomere length also does not correlate linearly humans do and we live way longer than them. And the first place, other species have longer ones. tissue degradation occurs via so many different tissues, from neural tissue to muscular tissue and to do with telomeres. Telomere length does not or its regulation, nor how toxic agents interact that inhibits enzymatic function is not magically to studies on aging, and also certain kinds thing is just an erroneous observation drenched in anti-pharma sentiment. this absolute nothingburger of a scientific claim establishment and then subsequently stolen by a prize. Bret likes to retain a facade of humility take the reigns with this accusation, as well as hero genius, and Eric does not disappoint. know him at all, as the heroic professor who and I swear I'm not making this up, as a Maoist Pacific Northwest, the Evergreen State College. he made up. A Maoist insurrection. Maoism of insurgency. The students at Evergreen were total dorms from actually armed neo-Nazis that Bret appearance. Good god what a pretentious douchebag. distorting the history of science. You have are not taking up, you are not advocating for, Well that's laughable. Bret has published two to the field of biology. He was a teacher. about his brother and himself, the revolutionary I know that it happened and I know that it got calling the distributed idea suppression the only person who's a part of this story. to? These two are absolutely shameless. Speaking For context, Carol Greider is a molecular student in the 80s, and in general pioneered Carol, we are stunned to find that our paper Without review. I send you the paper and have you look at it? And sends back the paper with an unbelievable number Not sensible, which is code for Carol explaining accept reality. You can see for yourself on his telomere shortening is responsible for all tissue tissue types each with their own aging dynamic. paper to Carol to review she panned it again. well understood. I didn't want to Ok this is exactly why I got angry at you at no offense. You were in line for a Nobel prize. class participation trophies? The guy is beyond primary pioneer of telomere research nothing. "Oh what if this thing in mice" is not to do with what Carol got hers for. Insanity. her that she and Mike are about to publish their So this is the delta between Yeah. And I'm shocked because she's told me this was my hypothesis that you were testing. But at the very least I need to be an I can go back and point to it and say that was... it wasn't something that was stumbled upon. Yes, Bret is accusing Carol of stealing his when in fact Carol published a paper on varying to it in another paper in 1995. Whoops. Elizabeth Blackburn, and Szostak. What Carol Nobel lecture being the biggest lecture And filmed. in which she very oddly has now embraced my entire over from the comparison between the paper of mine she is now a total convert to the idea that Hayflick limits that are telomere-based... Bret outs himself here. He backpedals from tissue claims to connections between telomeres and well known. This is what frauds do, they make and then they reign in these claims to reference in order to pretend that it vindicates them. The when they make up bullshit about and then point at Birkeland currents as though As anyone can plainly see, this narrative the anti-establishment sentiment. These podcast praising Bret for his unparalleled brilliance, understand. It's ridiculous. Do they look for and dish out the same type of praise? Were they the Nobel? Of course not. They have no interest no idea what Bret is saying when he references of alleged scientific achievement. It's the story the system, and the corrupt bureaucracies behind the only story the Weinsteins know how to tell. of the science-denying charlatans who are pandemic. There are three primary narratives first was a cartoonish level of confidence zero evidence. The second was being one of the of preventive measure for COVID, again with bandwagon of fabricating millions of deaths from Since the emergence of the novel coronavirus from circulated as to its origin, contradicting arising naturally in animal populations. In this through natural evolutionary processes, likely such as pangolins. The more outlandish of these created SARS coronavirus-2 as a bioweapon something that has been quite thoroughly require a whole video unto itself to explain. virus accidentally leaked from a lab in Wuhan. saying he was 90% sure this was the case. that oh it can't, c'mon that's conspiracy it certainly is a 50/50, would you say that? fact I said I think in June that the chances that This is already ridiculous. 90% sure based absolutely nothing to substantiate this. he began to reject any data regarding virology community. When any such papers were lies sent to squash the lab leak truth while In conversation with Joe Rogan he has said even from nature are nothing to worry about, fatality to overprescription of Aspirin, he thinks polio most viruses are lab leaks, claiming that research. He is just completely off his rocker. for people who came in with flu symptoms, that are now known to be deadly. polio that's not really an epidemic of that are being sprayed for with these toxic Next up, the Ivermectin debacle. This to me. Once COVID vaccines began rolling out, to criticize the operation and bypass the an anti-parasitic drug, was miraculous in not just infection. There is no clinical basis for this story is that it was adopted by those eager to out what they baselessly decided were ineffective when Ivermectin is itself a pharmaceutical drug, pharmaceutical companies in the world. So narrative. Those pushing Ivermectin wanted by boycotting their vaccines and throwing When medical professionals caught wind of public how there is no basis for presuming that COVID or preventing its transmission, including they were instantly labeled pharma shills trying by people who don't even exercise their own logic same argument for those trying to push Ivermectin, whole world started taking it. It's a breathtaking Never one to miss out on some good Joe Rogan held an "emergency podcast" with and he continued to push it relentlessly on his guests. Bret and his wife, who if you recall are because of the mouse telomere thing, took And we are a bit skeptical of pills. A lot skeptical of pills. suggest that this drug has any utility in curing suggest that the vaccines are more dangerous than promoted as an alternative. Bret will use garbage typos which claimed 100% efficacy, and when he garbage he just says it's a little sloppy. There due to plagiarism and problems with the raw data. which again would require a video unto itself to description. He also still promotes a website meta-analysis of ivermectin studies that shows things like multiplying together the p-values cherrypicking endpoints, and so forth. And will provide garbage insight. It's as simple sound when placed next to a bunch of other bad In general, Bret's narrative had long been and once large clinical trials were being done he just came up with conspiratorial reasons to and lying about clinical data aside, position from the standpoint of biology are just The fact that the drug in question, it's not a completely synthetic molecule, means one's ancestors have encountered before, and there reasonably elegant way of dealing with it rather Bret is clearly just taking advantage of negative synthetic. Whether a drug is synthetic or Soil bacteria produce toxins that can kill the Clostridium tetani toxin which causes which is the single most toxic compound known of the public thinks that natural equals good and but Bret isn't a scientist and he's deliberately with. That a molecule never existed until humans And naturally occurring compounds can be made In the end, this is all just clickbait for which in turn gets people killed. Lots of vaccinated and died of COVID. This includes one who was extremely vocal about avoiding the the basis for his reasoning. But undoubtedly Bret's combination of incompetence and It could be considered criminal behavior. He is directly attributed to his rhetoric, but for so were able to emerge because of the enormous due to having access to so many unvaccinated Why do so many people fall for these lies? It's dish out the conspiratorial overtones people himself from all reasonable criticism. He on Ivermectin shows no efficacy on COVID, Something is engineering the appearance price point. If you want something to be that to be a fact? That's gonna cost ya. Ivermectin was suppressed By not doing the relevant large and thus it not being approved by the FDA for for emergency use authorization for the vaccines There is zero epistemological consistency to conjecture is supported by data, he references supports the things he says, as well as any bogus contradicts what he has said, he invents threads just sculpts reality to be whatever he wants it medical establishment always wrong. All he has and those who are susceptible to this rhetoric like that the government mandated COVID them, weed out free thinkers, and reduce off by China to do so. Yes, he actually said this. then the mandates might persist in the advance of midterm elections or something He has also claimed that the vaccines were a despite saving millions of lives. He claims COVID variants, something which doesn't even the fabrication of all the deaths. He's brought Carlson, he discusses the estimate by of 17 million dead worldwide from the vaccine, I saw a credible estimate of something like 17 17 million deaths from the COVID vax? it's not hard to reach a number like Unfortunately, with regards to COVID vaccines and caused so many issues, we have gotten to a point over and over and over again, that a huge They absolutely can't be convinced that they were reactions to COVID vaccines, proportionally ever this widely distributed. Nearly all of were completely fabricated. But because of the on the paranoia, it has become reality for public on this issue is going to take decades. which is without a doubt the most ridiculous record supporting HIV denialism. He thinks hard to decide whether this is more idiotic but let's hear his justification. HIV being causal, was a lot higher quality a fellow traveler of a disease that was highly plausible hypothesis. And with Anthony for what he was trying to accomplish. factor in AIDS, which is party drugs. and for those who think that this is look at this evidence. The evidence is suprisingly that Luc Montagnier who got a Nobel prize for the that the thing for which he got the Nobel prize That's right, party drugs, a thinly veiled guys. By the way, Bret is constantly referencing isolating HIV, and who subsequently became a like structured water, homeopathy, and other another fraud to appear credible, nothing more. encapsulates the problem with Bret. Our virology is profound. We have an all-encompassing the virus infects T-cells and damages the immune disrupt this mechanism to the point where we can while still serious, is no longer a few decades ago? Because of the incredible and develop treatments for it. But all because he read some bullshit in a crappy book, What Luc Montagnier had said, and I Bret is nothing more than the clueless guy for on Facebook, he just knows how to use fancy he used some kind of scientific reasoning To be clear, everything we've covered so far is for hours and hours, as Bret's podcast is a is out to get him. Nobody can refute anything he he says he just refuses to engage with them. communicators confronting him on claims regarding openness and then runs away like a coward at see in a moment. But the way he postures as an continually downplaying, insulting, and running He is an absolute nobody even in evolutionary topics, he really is just totally clueless, which and dangerous statements. Reality has caught less influential than he was a couple years ago, topics that are even farther outside of his area the ultra-right wing wishlist. Here's a very AI, UBI, Fauci, parenting, the dangers of of the magnetic poles and disaster scenarios? Tremendously vulnerable to the EMP effects north pole isn't always where the north pole flip. We are in the midst of what's called a polar Well that all sounds pretty familiar. Ben Davidson, the scientist cosplayer, con who I exposed the hell out of a few years Ben, I've been following you for quite some sitting down with you and I'm also thrilled so much going on. So welcome to DarkHorse. make it out to Ben's apocalypse camp anytime definitely give that video a watch, as it's just marvel about the fact that there are psychopath just by looking directly in his eyes Anyway, that's a quick introduction to everything to pivot over to big boy Eric. But first I have We all want a reliable method of finding accurate comes to science. Google searches turn up a leaving us with more questions than answers. Scholar or PubMed connect you to research with many behind a paywall. Thus enters: search engine that leverages AI and vector search Consensus searches across 200 million scientific and presents referenced information to you any question, like, oh I don't know, does the science has spoken, a resounding no! Somebody end of the investigation. Consensus pulls up the extracts key insights from each paper, and gives data, methodology, and relevant outcomes. you don't even need to know the precise keywords to it like it's your friend. And you can even like your answers to be provided for you. search. Ask for the mechanisms of action, or or to explain a topic in simple language. Whatever from economics to anthropology. Is the gut treatment for acne? How does a cricket chirp? physics or just a curious Jack or Jill trying to Join over two million people who have already information sourcing. Try Consensus for free, no and jump straight into your first search today. the coattails of his little brother during Bret's it as an opportunity to shoe-horn his face into amplified by, who the hell else, Joe Rogan. And thumbnails for some of these conversations. This control! Break free from the matrix! Eric is such he? Look at this one, he says we need a scientific guy who has never made any meaningful contribution doctorate, his being in mathematical physics, but two papers and then taught biology for a while. and has never worked with physics in any saying things to sound smart on podcasts. Much anti-establishment tripe and complains about having done anything worthy of being recognized. something worthy of being recognized. Something of everything, which he calls Geometric Unity. He an old grad school buddy to give a public talk anything about it, and then began complaining it seriously, as though scientists are in the instead of reading papers. When pressed as to he always gave one of several mutually exclusive ideas. He can't publish because Arxiv only accepts Academia doesn't deserve his amazing ideas. He recorded and people can just watch the video. Einstein taken from him, Eric took to creating a place where he could cultivate an inner circle hundreds of members spreading his gospel all Eric eventually did finally put releasing it on April Fool's day 2021, with rather a podcaster, and it is merely a work of he pretends that he did it to protect himself. for taking somebody else's work and This was a good protection. to be an entertainer rather than a scientist, This is insane. You can't just steal the published Publishing research in respected journals is how This is just his attempt to play both sides so he stay under their radar completely, while appearing random people on the internet. His pseudo-paper Why would he expect to be taken seriously specifically telling everyone that he nobody in the physics community cared at which Eric then pretended to be enraged about, had been baselessly complaining about how string the field and aggressively shuts out alternative he regularly claims, that it is the key to a space colonizing multiplanetary species. Yeah. What are you talking about in terms of the Despite his disclaimers, the dialogue Eric came. Two people from within the Discord server, a Eric's work. They published a paper discrediting his pretend paper, based on the Oxford video. by the pseudonym Theo Polya. Eric didn't like so he began to attack anyone who acknowledged and then eliminated his critics all together by and maintaining correspondence only with his brand of suppression he falsely accuses academia get when pressed about this paper by listening asking when Eric will address the criticism head When will we hear like a debate with Sorry who's Theo? Sorry, who's Theo? I'm not aware of Theo Polya, Do you know Timothy Nguyen is? He's the coauthor from the paper... That wasn't the question though, right? No the question was... No you're not understanding. You're not understanding me. I've never heard to be taken seriously as an anonymous critic. of Theo Polya, cutting off the person speaking It's irrelevant who Theo is. If there is who is providing it, just like his insistence that from someone totally outside of academia. Eric the other author is not anonymous. Tim Nguyen is the exact same field as Eric, and he is from flat out muting the person asking him about the book to run away from it, from pretending the authors being internet trolls who harassed Behavior of those gentlemen, however many there comments against my colleagues, disrespecting also a friend of mine, I'm fucking sick of these but we don't know what Theo Polya is. No, no... put out rebutting geometric unity. Right? rebutting geometric unity. There was an which was rejected that attempted to get in looking at the text messages that were found quote "make me cry" close quote. What I'm talking exploit a situation in order to make a name for from that Discord server are trying to get people Well... no... you if you don't keep it up. Alright. You're muted We don't allow people in general to go around misogynistic, manipulative, it's fucking He calls them Arxiv meets 4chan, as though credentialed than himself, and when the caller Eric says he has to go walk his dog. Actually I'm kind of irritated. Yeah, but like I don't wanna be subjected to this. things really fast though please? The caller persists, continually saying it's about Misogyny, rape jokes, fixating on random people real criticism from real experts in the field. in particular, I don't care about... me. I'm not putting up with misogyny. I'm not putting up with threats against my family. I'm not putting up with any of the stupid Great. I'm talking strictly about the math. to you. Rape jokes aren't funny. Are we clear? That server. this for months, all as a method of distraction so Keating comes to the rescue, saying this Yeah and I'm [???]. Actually the title of the wanna stick to physics and I wanna make sure about physics, so let's move into that domain Of course this person was trying to get just transparent redirection on Eric's behalf. that criticism is invalid when it comes from discussion away from pressing Eric to acknowledge it's worth taking a brief aside to mention that points for being an actual working scientist, but he's been desperately trying to join the ranks promoting Eric every chance he gets, and he anti-science propaganda, especially Discovery promoting them and leaving favorable comments on receives some kind of compensation from them, and his podcast, presumably because I shat all over entire book whining about a Nobel prize he didn't should not be taken seriously. Now back to Eric. Geometric Unity all about, and why does nobody in of this are beyond my pay grade. Fortunately we through the nitty gritty. To offer some preemptive around how it's not actually a complete theory. "SHIAB Operator" which he does not rigorously in college, and he's pretty sure it worked but quantum theory, which any theory of everything inconsistent, and there are numerous other glaring invalid. But let's hear all this from Tim. ready to take a little bit of an in depth Great, yeah, glad to be here Dave. So yeah, what the two papers in question, there's Eric's paper released on April 1st of 2021. And there's my my anonymous coauthor, back in 2021. It predates on his lecture that was on YouTube that was the essential details, but just for the sake of paper was based upon. Yeah, anyway, let's just go before I go into the details, let me first of everything is, because remember Eric's theory I should at least clarify what exactly that So very quick crash course here, so let's in nature. We have the electromagnetic force, I've written these four forces over here. And well you want to be able to unify all these not the case. Right now we have a unification and strong. And those are unified in what's called left. And the standard model is quite intricate, on display, but famously it doesn't include a way, finding a model that would incorporate that you also have to include quantum theory. And a quantum field theory, so we don't have a problem combine gravitation with quantum theory. Gravity which is a classical theory, but we don't know don't even have a satisfactory quantum theory of three other forces is going to be very difficult. Just to clarify for the viewer, right, when we're electromagnetism and the weak force, they have and they went to the particle accelerator and they so it's not like just "oh, I think", it's about actual real empirical science unifying these of the universe, like that kind of thing, right? of these very well tested and validated there are still some mysteries, it doesn't that. But yeah, it's been empirically validated. three to that last fourth one basically. sort of two separate theories, or models Einstein's general relativity. And the standard but general relativity is not. So Yep, and maybe just one last ingredient which a gauge theory, gauge theory basically means and a gauge group is a symmetry group. And in in this case describes how the internal states of just a very kind of important mathematical aspect theory, because these particles have symmetries. as mathematical gauge theorists, well this is how the standard model is itself a gauge theory. Yep, well let's go ahead and dive right four objections to Eric's theory. So Eric's and it's also a gauge theory. So that's how it ahead and quickly state what the objections are. as it were, is that there is no SHIAB operator. So and SHIAB is an acronym for ship in a bottle, and motion. So in physics we have equations of motion. laws, and the second law is the statement that progress through physics you have more and more operator is the one that occurs in Eric's Eric claims that there is this SHIAB operator, and to invoke to show that it exists doesn't hold. if you can't construct the operator then your so basically his whole theory collapses It's just a magical thing that he That's right. And for those who want I have this long two hour lecture on the where I go into pretty concrete detail. I'll let everyone know. it's, I made it concrete in that I explain the of 2x2 matrices. So there's a simplifcation in matrices then maybe they'll appreciate Ok, so objection 2 is that there is a gauge that is when we take a theory that's classical and quantizing means, we have to show that certain well, typically wanna show that these things gauge anomaly, the reason you want the gauge you lose gauge invariance, the symmetry that show in our paper is that GU has a gauge anomaly and that leads him into this fatal situation and so you don't have a quantum theory. So The third objection that we have goes under constraints, and the way you can think of that Eric's theory lives in a 14 dimensional space, he so supersymmetry is this extra structure you it's quite intricate. But anyways, at a high to have certain particles, you also have to have and all of these extra structures are contrary he sets up structures that are not compatible. And finally there are numerous omissions in the itself, and, well, the unfortunate thing is that evident that there are lots of missing details. can find in his work, and I highlighted the part notes anymore for the claims that he's made. but it totally worked, trust me, bro. everyone to follow his work, but then finally provide them. So quite unfortunate. Ok, so that's Awesome, cool. So to summarize, would we or it does but is merely unsubstantive, or would how would we, in a sentence, qualify this? work, right? I mean, there, I mean his GU paper mathematical fragments, but because there are problem that I already elucidated, it's It's just a very incomplete work to say the least. competence. Something like that. Very cool, thank you for that. Well, there you have it. GU is junk. This is Weinstein. He wants to be the next Einstein. to him, it's enough to be perceived as such publishing anything for a decade to shield himself review, so he simply attacks the concept of peer does put something out after immense pressure, he ignores it, lashing out at anyone who mentions and unsavory behavior as though that would Eric knows his reputation can't rely on GU alone, guru, making bullshit claims about having He wrote a short blog post in 2010 called "Go "the internet is cool". He references this blog like cryptocurrency, without any basis whatsoever. and uses it to pretend that he predicted Because Eric can't bear to face a reality where he but rather just some guy with a doctorate and paranoia and conspiracy. Here he is talking You know that the first person outside of me to How did he know I was working on this? I don't until, you know, even my close friends didn't when the government is actually out to get you. engage in disinformation campaigns. When they It's gonna be a lot harder to roll me this time. point is, I didn't wanna become a celebrity. I harder to roll somebody who's getting, you know but I think I'm the math PhD with the largest get banned on social media because somebody interfere with the dominant narrative. he never sought fame, when that's literally the he goes on podcasts instead of doing physics. his persona and fabricating aspects of his productive. He makes claims that the FBI about Jeffrey Epstein. Here he is on Rogan Harvard university told me to remain in good in Massachusetts. Harvard has a program for how are in good standing. It makes them move so they can't complete the wrong side, I proposed some equations that never mind what that means. The story of thesis defense. To any academician, you hear it you present your thesis! No no no. I was not So this is why Harvard wanted Another victim of evil academia, just like endless. He says that he was prevented from never done in the history of the world, when the usual practice of the Harvard math department. as well. Eric cowrote two chapters of Pia's just applying gauge theory to a problem in that already exists. He routinely refers to this nobody cares about it, which is confirmed Pia Malaney's thesis revolutionized all understood. If you want to do something it's an arbitrage I can share it with the the world decided to stand in the way of that Fortunately our friend Tim has debunked this claim another tidy refutation of Eric's inflated claims? look at some of this economics work Yeah, so also in 2021, Eric went out on a limb to that's sort of the short title here of this talk at the University of Chicago in November of physics lecture. Basically other scientists don't this gauge theory you know, yoga, that I know eyes open to this revolution. And this work is her dissertation back in '96 at Harvard, where she economics PhD thinking about economic indices sort of like a reboot of that program. So in this to actually write a proper response, because there video. And yeah, this paper is now on the Arxiv, being on the Arxiv makes it even more official. this paper did go through that moderation process. That's right. Ok, in this case it's also just by so let me kind of also just kind of summarize work. So let me just start off real basic, simplistic assumptions, which is quite unfortunate to revolutionize economics. And in this case Eric work was the most important work in mathematical right? So when you make so many simplifying claim. And let me just give you one representative I have what's called an indifference curve. And what an agent, a person, might consider equivalent which they obtain. So in this case if there's and good two on the Y-axis, say oranges, then basket of one apple and one orange, and over here So maybe for this person they value one apple and of an apple and four oranges. Same with other so one of the things that Eric assumes in his these indifference curves are complete. Meaning have to go off to infinity. And if you translate one of the consequences is that it's impossible to to infinity, this hyperbola shoots up to infinity value, I can't have a basket of, I refuse to have infinite number of oranges to compensate. Exactly, right. So maybe this is nice for you're forbidden to have zero of a little bit drastic. Anyway so that's kind of But ok, let's just roll with it, but anyways, I it would good to at least have this example. So two conjectures that Eric has in his paper, and and try to unpack them, but the point is that essentially, so for example this conjecture 1 and it's false in a very simple way. Basically there from all the notation, and what I showed is what's called the trivial, it's called the that satisfies his list of properties. So it's down actually satisfies it. So it's kind of if the simplest thing you can think of once you it's sort of obfuscation, right? And then that it's a tautology, and that this conjecture do I say it, if you know enough gauge theory spent all this time setting up all this notation all the work that goes into unpacking what he unravel all the terms and the notation, the thing known fact. It's basically, you know, writing Long winded superfluous obscure verbiage Right what a surprise, right? So anyways Got it. So it sounds like, you said November unity flopping completely he said why where economists don't know gauge theory, and That's right. these segments are, have been very elucidating, out your longer lectures on these topics if they but I think this is very helpful for the Great, thank you. Well that was even worse than GU. How does Eric revolutionary? But not just revolutionary. He according to Eric, he and his brother and never get them because of various big bad evil don't you think? In this case, according suppressed by Harvard because it posed a threat which was conspiring to come up with a fake for calculating the price index in order to Security payoffs against the will of the people. figure out how to cut social security and raise third rail of politics. And what they said is, the way we measure inflation, because tax brackets social security and medicare payments are sorry if we claim that inflation is we will gain a trillion dollars in savings. it was also stolen! By physicist Juan Maldacena. that he's ever been on, and that is the Into the an intuitive way to understand gauge theory, really brilliant economic analogy that from Juan Maldacena. This is Eric's work. This Eric and Pia. Eric and Pia. Juan knew that he had gotten Funny how an idea can be both suppressed and away but also steal and show! Seems like the to reiterate, Eric deserves the Nobel! His wife Brian Keating deserves the Nobel! But all of them academia because of blah blah blah shoot me in that all false prophets have in common. If Eric's about it, and expand upon it, so to undercut this He invents concepts and cute acronyms, like the Suppression Complex to manufacture an identity of the hero battling against dark forces trying to but a fame junkie spewing anti-establishment a cabal of podcast hosts to promote himself and ironically the thing he pretends to criticize Terrence Howard in spirit. Both pretend to have the most brilliant person alive. Eric may be still completely full of shit. Eric is much more to appear credible, and thus his lies on topics Bret, he has a host of garbage takes on COVID and endless rhetoric railing against the university a long way in fostering anti-science sentiment. seems like he's good with money. From 2013 to which is not the same as a hedge fund manager and offered some kind of value to be on the payroll. his sole function for Thiel was being the internet prominent insanely wealthy anarcho-capitalist who and federal institutions. Eric is someone instability in these institutions on social to do? Wage Peter's culture war while he sits in does understand math and physics, which gives level math and physics textbook information to anti-establishment rhetoric he desires to give the This is genuinely all that Eric does. He's not publish. He doesn't teach. He talks. And boy does says very little. He uses podcast appearances to possible, appealing to props and analogies that on the back for his explanatory ability. He fails to explain how Terry is wrong in a way time. This is the essence of Eric Weinstein. they really do have a lot in common. They use the from bad academia but I am good. I'm a genius in or publish anything, having zero accolades that's because they're jealous of my brilliance which are the precise opposite of each other. me a Nobel prize, and if you disagree Sadly, this formula does work on a lot of people. popular. They trigger something psychologically in hostile towards knowledge and academic success, their disdain for institutions of knowledge there are a few obvious threads of logic that consciousness, or we will forever be falling for figures present their narratives, they should be outside of academia could ever possibly contribute in the 21st century, and almost every single of shit. People outside of science who claim track record of being lying manipulative frauds. of their time amassing a following and talking on they claim are their peers, and instead engage hell at understanding what they are talking about. If you are not well-versed in a particular a bachelor's degree, you will not be equipped these figures are talking about. This is by they are explaining it so masterfully that you physics as well as experts in the field, but suddenly know an entire foreign language from doesn't work that way. These figures say things not understand, and they say them with extreme intellectual superiority. This resonates with are all in a way still primitive primates roaming the tribe. We find peace and satisfaction in and letting the strong loud alpha male do our tapping directly into this phenomenon when they be skeptical. Be skeptical of everything. It's large corporations, or anything else. But also be as heroic whistleblowers and Luke Skywalkers. And the person or group that is contradicting far more likely to be the one who is lying. It's that sounds cohesive, because people are primed similarly primed to distrust individuals who make corrupt? Really? Every last academic in the entire narrative is a lying fraud shielding themselves Weigh for yourself what is more likely. It's must be exposed, so that their toxic influence must see the truth, such that they will stop stop supporting them on Patreon, because only many more figures like the Weinsteins that need to to a few of them. Perhaps I'll even circle back on sufficiently expand upon in this video in the made it through this video, if you previously that has now congealed into the appropriate So that's it for the Weinstein brothers and promising this one for a while, so let me and if there are other similar figures you think