Hey, Gen Mex, I want you to meet Jesus and Melissa. They're great friends of mine here in La Paz. Melissa is canadian and Jesus is Mexican. They met here in La Paz and got married. And so I want to talk about, all about, really, we're focusing on Melissa's journey because theoretically, you're most likely Melissa. You're living up in Canada, the United States. Melissa's not yet retired. She's almost retired and now married to Jesus. Let's get to know now. Hey, everybody. I'm Melissa. I'm 47, and I'm currently living in La Paz. I work in the oil field in Alberta as a medic on a drilling rig, and so I am allowed to work one month on, one month off. And I went on vacation with some friends to Puerto Vallarta for three weeks. Then I went to Cabo for ten days, and I had a friend that sailed down from Vancouver island to La Paz, and I said, oh, I'll meet you there. We'll hang out. Never heard of La Paz before. Got here. Absolutely fell in love with it within a day and a half. I have traveled extensively, mostly over Europe, and never felt that way about anywhere else. So I decided to rent an Airbnb for three months again, fell more and more in love with La Paz and decided that I was going to move here. I then went back to Canada, gave everything I owned to my 22 year old son, just in case things didn't work out, I would be able to get my belongings and furniture back. Well, this is kind of half time, but home is Mexico. Now. When she's up in Canada, she is at work. So she lives and works at the oil field in a company provided accommodations. So this is home, and let's go a little bit more and find out, continuing her life here in Mexico, what things were like at that point, how long ago that was? Once I was in La Paz and I started to meet people and went to different groups and the expat meetups, the recurring theme was, I wish I could have moved here sooner. I wish I didn't wait until I retired. And it kind of set off bells in my head as I'm able to live anywhere in the world with my job. So again, that got that ball rolling and just decided to go from there and thought, why not? Why do I have to wait until I'm 65 and retired? Why not live my best life now? And so once I had given everything away to my son, I was going to go back and forth and Airbnb during my time off at that point, I had bought myself a jeep liberty. I had a car, and I was actually staying with some friends in this complex. And a one bedroom became available. So I thought, you know what? Why not just go for it? Just rent it. And if it doesn't go, well, that's okay. At least you've tried it. So at that point, I chose to rent that apartment. And about two weeks later, I met Jesus. So I moved here solely by myself, knowing very few people and just winging it again. Then I met Jesus and kind of went from there. Jesus, come on in. Let's get in here now. Okay. Okay. Before I ask Jesus any questions, I'm going to ask Melissa about her level of Spanish before getting here. So my Spanish. My Spanish consisted of Bano Cerveza, por favor, playa. And that was about it. That was all the Spanish I knew. Okay, Jesus, your English. Oh, my English. Mi coming from Mazatlan to La Paz for work is nothing. It's similar Melissa and me, or maybe a little more. Not for communication. For more and more time. Okay, introduction, blah, blah, blah. It's now... maybe it's not good English, but it's communication now. Yeah. I always like to ask people what level of Spanish is just to get around. And of course, now we have people in a marriage. And I was impressed when I heard that Jesus had just had spoken zero English just a couple of years ago. It's amazing how far he's come. I don't hear Melissa speak a lot of Spanish because usually they're speaking English together and we're going to learn more about their relationship and how that works. When they don't speak, neither one fluently speaks the other one's language but enough to communicate. So we'll talk about that, but let's talk with Melissa and hear how they met. So I absolutely was not planning on moving to Mexico. I had no intention of it. I was single for six years, happily single, not looking to get into a relationship. Just happy, traveling the world, working. And then one day I went to a bar called Estrella del Mar on the beach and had a few drinks with some friends. And at that point, I ran into Jesus and we started talking and just really hit it off. So we spent the next five days together and I had to go back to work for two months. And he was actually devastated. He thought I would not come back in those five days, I had actually signed the contract to rent my apartment. And so that made him a little more secure that I was going to come back, and I was serious about him. There was a lot of face timing going on, a lot of phone calls, again, a lot of Google translate because we didn't speak each other's language. We just knew that the chemistry and the connection was there, and we wanted to see where it went. Yeah, these guys are really wonderful. I see them around a lot of happy hours and whatnot. I want to hear more about their families, some of which I've met at their wedding. And we're going to talk about their wedding in a second, but let's hear about a little bit about both of their pasts. So, again, I was single, not looking for anything. Found Jesus very quickly. Decided within probably four or five months that we did want to get married. That was no question. It was just there. This is a second wedding for both of us. We both have grown children. He's got two sons. One is 26, Jesus David. One is Diego, 17, who lives with us, and a stepdaughter, Paulina, who's 20. Amazing kids. I also have a son that's 23, Dakota, living on Vancouver island. And if you watched the interview with Jake a while back. So this is a. I think he's an american guy, and he was dating a Mexican woman, and things were a little more complicated because there was this family dynamic in how things work in Mexico. It might be different if you are a woman dating a man or a man dating a woman. So let's hear a little bit about those differences. Mexico. Family is everything. Family is huge. It's very, very important. However, he's 51, I'm 47. It's our second marriage. His father, unfortunately, passed away three years ago, so he has his mom, his sister, and nephew in Mazatlan, as well as his two other kids. We asked them what they thought about us getting married, and their answer was, you know, as long as you're happy, I'm happy, and I've met them. They're wonderful people. My parents have met Jesus as well and very much in love with him, but we didn't have those complications dating as you would if I was a Mexican woman and he was an american man. But family is very important here, and they do have a big say. His family is a little more relaxed and just wants the best for both of us. So I met Diego at their wedding, and along with all of Melissa's friends who came down from Canada once again, we're gonna talk about that wedding in a second, but let's continue talking about the family unit here, because it is important and it is a little bit different. When we first moved in together, we had a tiny little one bedroom apartment. It worked perfect for us for the first year, and we quickly outgrew that. So then we ended up in this two bedroom place, and after about three or four months of being here, Diego and his stepdaughter, Paulina came down for Samana Santa, I believe that's how you say it, spring break. And Diego, who is 17, absolutely loved it here and wanted to move down. So about three months later, we decided, talking with his mother in Mazatlan as well, that he would move down here, and that was a little bit challenging. Diego is a wonderful young man. He is extremely respectful. There is definitely a language barrier there, as he doesn't speak very much English at all, so we have to use Google translate a lot. But I'm sure it was difficult for him going from having a Mexican mother to a canadian stepmother. Mothers are the same around the world, but having a few different guidelines or expectations within the realm of normalcy, and we've worked through those. It's not been a problem. He goes to school full time, he works full time. We're very, very proud of him, and we're happy to have him as part of our family. I was done raising kids, and so it was a bit of an adventure having a teenager in the home again. But again, it's what you do for your family. You just do it. Yeah. And it works really well for us. Okay, let's continue on theme of differences. I want to hear what's different about marrying someone in a different culture. There is a difference between Mexican girl and canadian girl. There is more looking at girls, looking at men.. Okay. Why looking? It's more different for the Canadians. Melissa is in the. Oh, this is Melissa. Hey. Hi. Hi. This for odd me. Okay, the one moment, why is she doing this? I don't know. Nope, it's no problem. Now it's okay. This is only hi. It's only hi. Before, my ex is in there. Hey. Hi. Is for what guys? It's for looking? Phone? I don't know it is. &quot;No, no, no. he's only my friend.&quot; Okay. Yeah. Now it's ok. Communication for Melissa. For question. Hey. For &quot;hi.&quot; Oh, this is only &quot;hi.&quot; Oh, perfect. It's been a problem in Mexican culture. There's definitely a little more jealousy for men and women. They're very protective of their girlfriend, boyfriend, husband. They don't understand. Oh, why? Why are you talking to that man? Even though it's friendly? And again, Jesus and I are not jealous people. But that was one of the different culture things. Whereas Canadians are very friendly and very outgoing. And so now he understands. When I make new friends, be it female, male, and vice versa, I tell him to go out all the time, go out and have fun when I'm at work. And he's like, but why? I wouldn't go without you. And he doesn't want me to be jealous. And he. I'm not. But there's a little more jealousy in Mexico as opposed to Canada. Yeah. So I think. I mean, every relationship is probably different. Let's see. I think Melissa mentioned that they like to do a lot of the same things. It's pretty casual. So let's hear kind of some of those things. Cause I know what they did today, and I'm very jealous. So what I did today, actually, was turbo cleaned the house for this interview, which it was fine. It was easy to do. But then I went scuba diving with Jesus. He works on a boat as a skipper and does a multitude of things. One of the things he had to do today was clean the bottom of the boats. And I used to be a diver many years ago, and he said, do you want to get in the water? Help me clean the boat. So I said, okay, why not scuba diving today? And then I went to a knitting club, which I'm super enjoying. I spin wool with a spinning wheel. I know it's kind of different, but it was something that a group that I'm really happy I found here today. We are very outdoorsy people. We love paddle boarding. We love snorkeling. We love finding new reefs to check out, different beaches. We love walking the malecon when he's got a day off. Dancing in the street. We will dance anywhere. We love dancing. Absolutely. We love cooking together. He is by far the chef. And I will sit there and drink my margarita while he whips up something amazing. And he loves doing that. But, yeah, we like being out on the boat. We don't own a boat, but when we're lucky enough to go out on our friends boats, we love fishing. Just the whole underwater lifestyle. I always said I should have been born a mermaid. And I have a mermaid tattoo. He's got an octopus tattoo. He always said, you know, his life is under the sea, and that's kind of. Yeah, we live a very outdoorsy, busy lifestyle. Okay. That mermaid transition is perfect for talking about the wedding and I'm sure Melissa hates it every time I say this, but they wrote their own vows, and the way this worked was Melissa said her vows in English, and all of us understood. And someone translated to Spanish for those people who were spanish speakers in the audience, and they were very nice. Very nice. And then Jesus started saying his vows, and then when the woman started translating the whole, everyone was like, ah. So let's hear a little bit about what was in those vows and just the wedding in general. So Brighton is absolutely right. We wrote our own vows, and everybody says it. I wrote my vows about half an hour before we got married, and I'm very proud of them. However, the vows that Jesus wrote were absolutely amazing, and they were very much along the lines of, I came to La Paz, and I met a mermaid on a rock sitting on the sea. I came to the scene la paz de. And I fell in love with a mermaid. And she brought me here forever. And even if I have to live underwater for the rest of my life to be with her, I will do that. No matter if I have to sleep in the deep of the sea, wherever you are, I will be there with you. You always and forever, my love. Yes. There was a big sigh at the wedding. We chose to get married at Playa El Tesoro. It's a beautiful cove in La Paz. And, yeah, it was perfect. It was really great. And I'm super happy for his vows. They were very heartfelt. Tell us more about the wedding. So the wedding. So we decided, I guess probably six months ago, seven months ago, that we wanted to get married. I found a dress already was having a little bit of stress about it when we first started bonding, and Jesus said to me, keeping in mind I'm at work planning this entire wedding from a drilling rig. And I amazoned everything. And Jesus said to me, baby, it doesn't matter. Don't stress. It's just you and me. And at that point, I decided to let any stress go. And so I had 17 friends fly in from Canada. I'm very grateful. There was about 40 or 50 people at the wedding. It was very casual. We kind of, everybody was there at the beach, had everything set up, walked in, mingled with everybody for about 20 minutes, said, hey, it's a good time. To get married, and I can vouch for the wedding. I hope that Melissa talks a little bit about the dog and also the tacos. So we had our very good friends Russ and Dolores from Denver fly in to marry us, and they were spectacular good friends of ours. During the wedding, ceremony. There was a random beach dog who just kind of was going to hang out right by us, so I politely asked somebody if he could maybe just move over there. So that worked out well. Yeah, we had friends of ours do an entire taco stand that were the best tacos anybody's ever had. And that's what we did for kind of a brunch, whatnot, and then had tequila on all the tables and. Yeah, then we did some dancing, took some photos at sunset, then went to. It was beautiful. Yeah. We all mingled. We all had a good time. Again, I let all the stress go, and it was perfect. And then we went to Bandidos for dinner. And if you know where Bandidos is here, it's a restaurant with a car grill. It, unfortunately, is closed down now after 20 years, which is sad, but we had a great time there, and then came back to the house for a party down by the pool. And I have heard a rumor that Bandidos is going to come back in El Centenario, which is where I live. That's. That's a rumor. We'll see. Rumors are. Are very popular in Mexico. This is our adventure book that I got from the movie up, and a friend of mine bought a Polaroid camera and took pictures of the wedding as it was happening. So I had friends that flew in from Australia, friends from San Diego. There's a great picture of me and Jesus at our wedding. Love that. And then everybody wrote congratulations and whatnot. This is Diego, his son. Yeah. There's a picture in here of you, I think, Brayton somewhere, probably in the last place. No, that's not you. That was with Scott in my picture. There we are. There you are. Yeah, this is friends of mine from work, actually, from my drilling rig. So, yeah, it was a great wedding. Les, before we wrap up, let's get a quick tour of the house here and hear what things cost for them. So we live in the La Posada area, about a four minute drive from the beginning of the Malakon and about five minutes to Walmart. It's a great area. The beach is about two blocks away. Everything came furnished in the house. Our landlords are absolutely amazing. They live across the street. They are wonderful, wonderful people, because there are rumors of landlords not being very honest in Mexico. But our landlords are phenomenal. So, yeah, everything came furnished here. We pay under 15,000 pesos for our rent, which is an extremely good deal considering the cost of inflation in the last two years. Everything's included. Water is included, except for our air conditioning. Our highest bill in July and August was 2300 pesos. We're conscious about air conditioning, but we're not. You know, we don't go overboard, but we certainly don't leave it on when we're not home. We do go out probably twice a week. That bill's usually anywhere between 501,000 pesos, drinks, dinner included, depending on what we want to do. Jesus has a motorbike, so we save on gas. I have my jeep and I think my jeep takes about 1700 pesos to fill. We don't have a lot of other expensive. Again, we like to do a lot of outdoor stuff that doesn't cost a lot of money. Food. We eat a lot of food at home as well. I suggest shopping at the Marcado where you can get your fresh meat, at the butchers, all your fresh vegetables and whatnot. We live across the street from the grocery store, Chandrawi, so it's convenient for us to shop there, although it is a little more expensive. One of the expenses we do have that most people don't is my flight back and forth every month, and I usually get that between four and $500 canadian, but I do that once a month. However, it is cheaper for me to fly from Calgary to Cabo than Calgary to Vancouver Island. I have been doing my job ten years and I was paying quite a bit more to fly to Vancouver island. So it's almost a no brainer for me to move to Mexico. Yes, it is a no brainer to move to Mexico. I love that line. We're going to get a little bit more of a pitch for Mexico, because if these guys can do it, they're right around 50 years old, still working, have found a way to make this happen. It's possible for, I think, anyone to figure out how this can happen. So let's hear some parting thoughts. So if anybody's thinking about moving to Mexico or somewhere else or stepping outside of their bubble, I highly suggest you do it. Just go for it. I jumped in both feet. My suggestion would be to rent for three to six months first to get an idea if that culture is really for you. It can get very hot in July and August. I'm okay with that. Not everybody is. I think too many people get stuck in their bubble and don't find a way to make things work to better their lifestyle or make themselves the life that they want. So I just want to say that the culture differences for us have not been a problem. We've been able to overcome them. When you love somebody and you find that person, just go for it. And he is extremely special to me. I've dated wonderful men in the past. My ex husband and I are very good friends. We've been divorced for 18 years. However, what I have with Jesus is extremely special and I would not trade it for all the money in the world. Yeah, he's amazing. What is it that is holding you back? Put that down in the comments. And all of us can kind of crowdsource ideas. So like there's, I even have a video with a doctor. She's a doctor living halftime in Mexico and she, she has found a way to make it work where she has to go back and forth to the US. So there's a lot of different ways to make things happen and that's what I'm trying to bring to you. I've got a couple more people including that doctor so you should watch those videos next. Hasta Luego.