Today I want to talk about the Romance of languages and learning languages. You are no doubt aware that There are large sort of families European family of languages. If you look at a map of the world, you occupied large areas of the world. Other languages are very much sort Typically, this is the result of the whereby languages expand or influence the it be European colonialist empires, but Bantu languages in Africa, Quechua as which began somewhere in central Asia, now is spoken across a great swath of. Of Asia or Eurasia, but the greatest wasn't the case a thousand years ago. In other words, these So the Romance languages are the to Rome and Latin was one of. of a variety of Italic languages when the Roman empire developed and expanded those Italic languages at the Other languages, presumably even Greek was spoken in Spain, for So there's constantly this ebb So the romance languages are the group Typically the Experts say vulgar of Latin that was spoken in Europe. And we can see in this map that there We have the larger groupings like Romanian, but there are subsections Sometimes these are called dialects. Sometimes these have declined and are And some of them are languages that Existence, for example, Catalan, Gallego in, in Spain, but in Italy, in Most people today study the are identified with the major So Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese, only in Europe, but again, as a result Uh, spoken on other continents in the So how different are these languages? These languages share a The vocabulary can be as close as case between Spanish and Portuguese. Or it can be, you know, uh, as in And French, only 75 percent similar. French, in fact, in terms of vocabulary to Italian than it is to the other Romance Are closer, not surprisingly to each structure than they are to Italian, sounds more similar to Spanish. In fact, in terms of grammatical In terms of vocabulary and my syntax or structure grammar. These languages are very However, there are significant terms of Vocabulary Even in terms of word might be feminine in one language but there are also differences within talking about regional variance, as regional, uh, Romance language, but even in pronunciation, differences in usage countries in Latin America, similarly, spoken in Portugal and Portuguese in French, again, uh, minor differences more significant differences between So typically. When you are going about learning one probably want to learn the version of most useful for you in your situation. So if you're going to be living in Brazil, then that's the variety that you probably strong preference for some other variety. Because typically, it's People these different varieties. Despite what you may hear, I found understanding Brazilians, vice versa. The same is true between Quebec of the Spanish speaking world, Heavy slang, heavy regional sort of but they all can speak a sort of a language, regardless of where they live. Very often learners of these About whether this particular bit uh, European Spanish or Mexican It's been my experience that at an hardly even hear the difference. Uh, it's largely the same words. It's largely the same usage Again, unless you get into very So I found in learning these languages Brazilian, Portuguese, or different It didn't really matter. So then let's move on to this question these languages, these Romance languages? So I will sort of use my own So I think the first thing, learning one or more of the Romance There has to be something In my own case, I was I had a professor who We had a course on French civilization, know, Racine, uh, Moliere, you know, For whatever reason, it caught my fancy. Similarly, you know, they had Uh, of cinema in, uh, in the sort of late So whether it be Italian, French, to find something that motivates You want to learn for that reason. The motivation could also be a person. In fact, very often it is. So get that motivation. That's going to keep you going. The second thing is I would You need words, lots of words, do a There are grammatical features in be troublesome for people who are First of all, gender of nouns, which we identify gender with people, it's reason, grammatical reason, certain and certain as feminine, and you just All of these languages have agreement masculine, then the corresponding And similarly with feminine. So gender is a significant element. Sort of obstacle for many people because about why a word is masculine or feminine. There are rules. You know, the O ending in Spanish The ah ending is typically feminine. Those are rules that It's difficult to remember. It's difficult to produce this If you, you know, speak a language, So even if you understand the be masculine or feminine, you may on the fly for a long, long time. So don't worry about it. That's normal. There are grammatical, The Portuguese have a sort of a exist in the other Romance languages. So you're going to find specific which is different from the others. The subjunctive is fairly common, but the be different from language to language. So. You can look at these rules, you can experience, it's only through a lot of a lot of opportunity to use the language, mistakes that eventually you get better. Another thing that I found was that languages, like Spanish and Portuguese, vocabulary, maybe more pronunciation So it's like um, much more difficult of Portuguese from Spanish because to Spanish than to Portuguese. There are people however, and I was video the other day put out by language languages and he is really very very good. Both in Brazilian So there are people who don't have found it to be an obstacle. So getting back then to this idea of, to learn the language, I would recommend If you're using LingQ, Lots of high frequency verbs. Listen to them over and over again. My strongest Romance language is French. So if you look at my statistics many saved words in French. I think it's around 5, 000 and it was different content items in our library. On the other hand, Spanish, You'll see that I've put a Acquiring words on LingQ, that That means I read a lot. And, uh, the advantage, of course, if language, because there's such easy to accumulate lots of words. New known words, because you'll form is slightly different. The meaning might be slightly different, these and then to identify the meaning them in subsequent content that you Very quickly, you're able to understand And that's really very encouraging. So if, if you sort of knock off Spanish, Italian, as long as you're prepared Uh, next romance language, you'll find than some languages unrelated. Uh, and that certainly was my, Romanian, where there is the, very similar to Italian, but That is influenced by the Slavic Romania and Romanian speakers. And there's also some influence of, of, Part of Europe, but nevertheless, I quickly because of the 70 percent Every one of the Romance languages that were spoken around it. So, uh, you know, in the case of Spanish, Spanish, but by and large, this is affects Overwhelmingly, the vocabulary is very do to go in there and go after this know, quite a big part of certainly the reflects a lot of the romance, cultural olive oil and all the good things that the classical world of ancient Greece and And in a subsequent video, I may talk how the Greek world expanded beyond its for now, and so there you have it. My brief rant on Romance languages.