The U.S.'s Central Intelligence agency - the CIA famous and most elite spy agencies with a long at times, of spying on each other. Israel and the U.S. have long professed to in both countries have been bragging for between the 2 nations. While this may be true, countries and their spy agencies working together regard each other with deep suspicion, and both end of each other's espionage efforts. In fact, aggressive espionage efforts on the U.S. than classified NSA document that was made public good partners for us, but they target us to In one of the most famous cases, U.S. Navy life in prison in 1987 after he was caught Given the clandestine nature of get any straight answers about what exactly accomplish their clandestine missions. the revealing memoirs of former spies, and to piece together a history and profile of The U.S.'s Central Intelligence Agency was largely in response to growing tensions with to the Director of National Intelligence, a to provide foreign intelligence information to the Today, the CIA employs more than 21,000 people, Although there have been female spies in the CIA long history of sexism, and many former employees women from rising to higher positions in the were held by women, versus 40% in the general recent years - in 2018, Gina Haspel was sworn Mossad was formed in December 1949 to act between Israel's existing intelligence the internal security service Shin Bet, and the and made a part of the prime minister's office, their headquarters in Tel Aviv, Mossad focuses on their role is to "collect information, covert operations beyond Israel's borders." taken from the bible: "By way of To help them in their mission, Mossad employees are covert operatives, called Katsa. Many Katsa attitude toward their female operatives - to stereotypes, you see that women's abilities the territory, reading situations, spatial When it comes to achieving their objectives, are hard lines that they will not cross - and A former female Israeli spy told reporters that "a has less chance of being allowed in... A but was adamant that sex CIA spy training takes place at their headquarters training, at minimum a prospect must be engineering or business, and be drug-free for considered an asset, as well. CIA training focuses gruelling experience how to function and focus and in the face of extreme danger. Recruits hand-to-hand combat, but the hallmark of CIA training. According to former CIA spy Amaryllis that the civilians around them are oblivious At "The Farm" - the nickname for their will learn the hands-on skills they need to be a or bumps, the subtle art of extracting They learn to perform dead drops and brush passes They become skilled at detecting and their marks are other seasoned spies. Some hard-earned wisdom with the next generation assignment close to home, and still others Requirements for joining Mossad appear to be less website, "all are welcome, regardless of religion, at the Midrasha near the town of Herzliya, where psychological and aptitude tests before starting new spies are instructed in the arts of espionage, surveillance. They also receive extensive How do the CIA and Mossad compare? Both mandates, and their recruits undergo similar agencies stack up against each other is to look at secret, over time details have leaked out about The CIA's official focus is on gathering intel, longest and most successful It started out as an unofficial "gentleman's William Friedman and Boris Hagelin, owner of of the world's most reputable manufacturers of and militaries of over 60 countries among its agreed that Crypto AG's machines should only the 1950s almost all of Crypto AG's machines The relationship between Friendman and Hagelin 60s the CIA realized that they needed to find information that Crypto AG provided. CIA agents, orchestrated a daring and complex operation The purchase was done in secret through and not even Crypto AG's employees knew the Once the CIA controlled the company, they enemy countries - and probably to their allies, to intelligence data from all over the world through Crypto AG machines was instrumental in Canal crisis in 1956, the 1978 Camp David Peace Like the CIA, Mossad's focus is on In recent years, Mossad has also investing in tech startups in an effort to Mossad also aren't shy about the fact that covert operations - including assassinations One of Mossad's most high profile successes was a daring escapade that seems like a plot Eichmann was one of the architects of the murder of 6 million of Europe's Jews, and after There, he lived a quiet life with his family under son began dating the daughter of a Jewish refugee her father realized Eichmann's true identity. a highly trained "snatch team" to Argentina to their entire families in the concentration camps agents approached Eichmann as he was walking wrestled him to the ground and into a waiting where he was interrogated for days before being trial that followed was the first televised trial heard the true details of the Holocaust. Eichmann but the evidence showed otherwise - he Some of Mossad and CIA's biggest successes work together. During Operation Olympic and Mossad operatives were rumored to have worked The operatives created a sophisticated the first of its kind in the world. Since hackers they coordinated a complicated operation to infect be connected to the facility with the destructive to the plant's industrial control computers via centrifuges and preventing Iran from enriching nuclear weapons. It took nearly a year for the and to this day, neither the U.S. or Israel When an operation is successful, the public if at all. Failures, on the other hand, the CIA has come under scrutiny for its perceived World Trade Center. It has faced increased and Americans' growing concerns about privacy. over its interrogation methods, which Mossad is not immune to criticism, either. They neighbor and sworn enemy Palestine to such an intel elsewhere in the Middle East and around too. In 1972, Palestinian terrorists launched killing 6 Israeli athletes and 5 of their terrorists behind the attack, but in 1973, they having mistaken him for one of the terrorists. and Mossad compensated the victims' family. Mossad and the CIA are 2 of the most elite at times acting as allies, and at others turning Mossad versus CIA - how do they compare? Only come to think of it, maybe we If you thought this video was fascinating, like this one called "Who Were The or perhaps you'll like this other video more!