You're asking me for my world title prediction in Gukes versus Ding, which, first of all, I think as of the time of recording, we basically have confirmation that Ding will, in fact, play. I don't know where that rumor came from that he's not going to play in November. But, I mean, just because, again, it's the same thing, just because it happened once and now it's happened twice with Bobby Fischer, it's not a trend. You know, there's this expression, I always forget how it goes, like once a coincidence, like two a tendency, three times a trend. But, OK, more often than not, the world champion has shown up throughout chess history to defend their title. So the huge question, obviously, and you don't need a Naroditsky to say this, is that the big X factor will be Ding's mental state and his emotional state. The things that he's been dealing with, we don't know what they are and we don't know if they're sort of physical in nature, mental in nature. I didn't read his latest interview. Whatever they are, it doesn't matter. First of all, obviously, hopefully the chess community can unite to wish him the best and to hope that the best version of Ding shows up at the World Championship match. I don't think Gukes would want to play Ding, a weakened Ding, who forces himself to play. In fact, I'm positive that Gukes himself would, the first thing he would say is, no, I want to win the title against someone who plays his full strength. So, if we can see a full strength Ding, the kind of Ding that crossed 2800, the Ding that people have largely forgotten about, right? People have somehow, I think, sometimes think that Ding accidentally made it to where he was because there's this recency bias and I totally get it. Can you name, for example, a tournament that Ding won? Just period. I mean, I would accept the World Championship match against Nepo. I think he won in the finals against Magnus in St. Louis in 2019. Excellent. That's what I remember. And I ask this, not disparagingly, but the opposite. That's what I also remember, that final Rapid game against Carlson. But if you look at Ding, I mean, he was, I'm on his FIDE page right now, and in 2018 September, he crossed 2800 for the first time. And 2018 September, that was like a different universe, a different millennium. People don't really remember that time. But if you just click on a random supplement from that time, World Olympiad 2018, here's how he did. He beat a 2600, he beat a 2700. He made three draws, including one against Mamid Yarov, who was 2820. Defeated Jan Shistav Duda and drew 2830 Caruana. Then European Club Cup. He defeated Peter Svidler, 2750. Drew Magnus, defeated a 2650. He beat a 2500. I mean, yes, that guy was and still is very good at chess. In Norway Chess 2019, he had another solid showing. Didn't lose a single game. Defeated Fabi and defeated Mamid Yarov. So Ding, at his peak, is an incredibly solid player. Also defeated Gukes in the last Tata Steel tournament, where Ding had that breakdown. But at first, everybody thought, Ding is back. And he beat Gukes with black. So Gukes has some personal things to kind of work through there. If the best version of Ding shows up, I think that you essentially have two players with pretty similar styles, which are styles sort of in the general Magnus Carlsen camp, sort of more positional at their core than tactical. Opening preparation, I think, will play a very large role in this match. Because Ding with white cannot, I think, afford to come with the same kind of vanilla setups that he did against Jan. You know, the H3, Queens, Gamma declines. And Ding has to put more pressure. We saw how Gukes reacts, for example, in the last round against Ikaro. If you don't put pressure on Gukes out of the opening, he is going to outplay you. He is going to hold the line, and he is not going to self-destruct, which is a huge strength. So opening prep will be fascinating to observe in that match. I would say it's very hard to make a prediction because I truly have no idea what kind of form Ding is going to be, and if he demonstrates the same form that he did against Jan, I think that Gukes is the favorite. If Ding can improve his opening preparation with white, if he can avoid time pressure and perhaps use Gukes' time pressure against him, and I do think that time management could be, insofar as we could point out some things that Gukes might want to work on, not suggesting that I, I mean, it is my business or even right to point that out, but things that I observed at the candidates, at least, the time management of the players will be interesting to watch. I would say Gukes is the slight favorite, as I currently see it, with the big caveat that almost everything depends on Ding's mental and emotional preparation, and I truly hope that in the next, you know, seven months, he can get himself to a place where he feels motivated to play the world championship, and first and foremost, of course, I wish him the very best of health. That is by far more important than, you know, anything chess-related. What's your, like, estimated probability of Gukes winning, Ding winning? Yeah, I think my hope, my answer is, like, not different to many people's opinion. I think Gukes is a pretty big favorite. Maybe his chances are, like, 75 -25. Yeah, I think his, like, Ding hasn't really been in good shape, and I hope it will be a close match, but, like, it will be entertaining. But, yeah, considering the way, like, he's playing right now, I think Gukes will, it won't be a close match. What's your assessment of probabilities of Gukes winning or Ding winning? Depends which Ding shows up, like the Ding we've seen recently in Norway chess or Valkanze, I don't think has a chance, not just against Gukes, but against any top player. But there's still some time, and, yeah, I would expect Ding to dig deep and a different Ding to show up. But the way he's looked recently, you have to make Gukes the favorite. I'm not sure, because also it's a different stage and everybody reacts differently. But Gukes seems very, very tough mentally, judging from far away. So right here, right now, with what we've seen from Ding, I would say, yeah, whatever, it's 60-40 Gukes with, yeah, the unknown being what shape Ding will be in. But, of course, if 2018 Ding somehow shows up, things could be different. But, yeah, from the games we've seen, you have to make Gukes the favorite as of today. Arjun said it's going to be a massacre. What do you think? Will it be a massacre? Who will massacre whom? Yeah, I don't know. I mean, it could be a massacre. I don't think it's impossible. But, I mean, as someone who has followed World Championship for a long time, I would, like starting from 2013, not very long, but obviously I've seen all the games from the past. I would hope for some exciting games and hope for, like, a close match so that we will see some exciting games and fun stuff. But I think that, I mean, seeing the current form, that Gukes is obviously a favorite. That's no doubt about it. But, you know, saying that, like, World Championship is a completely different event. And we saw last year how Ding lost the second game. And then he gave this press conference about saying, like, I'm not, yeah, I'm not feeling a lot of depressed state or something, but still he managed to come back and win the match. So, it's, I mean, he could definitely recover. He could definitely be in the best shape before the World Championship match. So, we don't know what's going to happen. And I think that's the reason it provides a lot of excitement. What percentage do you give to Gukes winning? I mean, with the way Ding is playing now, I can give 99 to Gukes. But if Ding plays, and again, also how Gukes play, it's like the most enigmatic match in the chess history, because you don't know what to expect from both of them. Like, if Gukes plays on the level he played in the candidates, then even if Ding plays at his best, he has almost no chance. But if Gukes plays at his usual level, and Ding plays at his best, then Gukes has no chance. So, it's like, I mean, it's almost impossible to imagine a scenario where the match is more or less even. It's like one has less than 1% or another has less than 1%. Who is the favorite in this match? What are your predictions? The prediction for me is quite difficult because Ding Li Ren is my teammate and a friend for many years. But it looks like he was not in the best form in this year's tournaments. For example, Norway chess, Olympia. Yeah, but, okay, of course, we saw he was trying to be better and better. It's really not easy for him to recover very fast his best. But yes, he's trying, not easy. But Gukes, his opponent, I think, grew very fast, played much better than Premier Sears. And yes, we can see his fantastic performance in Olympiad. Yes, I think Gukes has better chance if things just go like this as friends and teammates in a national team. Of course, I think maybe it's better if Ding Li Ren wins. But as a chess player, chess fans, maybe Gukes had a better chance. Like, it will not change much. Gukes, in my opinion, if he wants to prove something, okay, just go play this Grand Chester. Get to your, like, 2800 and then you're a big thing. And then you don't even need to win the match. But, I mean, okay, if you're bidding or not, I mean, it's not that, I mean, okay, you can do that. It's better than not to be Ding.