Claudia Romeo: Today Colston Bassett in to learn more about how Today we're going to and origin, and I will also be getting my hands dirty in the process. And then, of course, This cheese can only which are spread across three counties here in England, which Leicestershire, and Derbyshire. And today we're going to visit Colston Bassett Dairy, which is one of the six dairies making Stilton cheese. Stilton cheese takes its of Stilton, in the east of England. The earliest reports of cheese made and sold here date In 1724, English writer Daniel Defoe referred to the town calling the product What contributed to its popularity was that Stilton was relatively close to London, only 70 miles away. The town was on the Great North Road. Built by the Romans, this road was the only link between before modern motorways took over. The road passed through villages and market towns filled One of these was The Bell Inn, where a lady named Frances Pawlett sold her cheese to travelers, and the word of her Stilton cheese quickly started to travel with them. And though she probably did not invent the cheese herself, she is responsible for expanding its popularity Billy Kevan: That was her route to market. It was basically a so people would stop overnight, and a lot of the cheese was sold there and taken down to London by travelers. Claudia: As its popularity grew, Stilton cheese started to be made in the surrounding areas. Today, Stilton production has strict geographical borders and is confined to three counties in England. Ironically, as the village of Stilton falls outside of the county's borders, there can't be any cheese made Colston Bassett Dairy was founded in 1913 as a cooperative to save excess milk from farms in the village Today, the dairy works with four farms that supply 4 million Billy: Over, you know, the we've gone from making probably making 50, 60 cheese a day, to making seven days a week, and we are doing, in peak, Claudia: The farms send where it is pasteurized. Billy: What we do is we take the milk, we add a blue mold culture, starter culture to produce acidity, and then we add rennet, which will help us clot the milk and turn it into curd. Once we've set it and it looks like a giant jelly, a giant white jelly, we'll cut the curd, release the moisture, and we'll drain that moisture off. Quite specific to us, all of our cheese will be hand-ladled from vat to trolley. And that's just the transfer of curd from one large vessel to another. That will give us moisture release without losing too many Mechanized processes, people who are transferring large volumes, can and do lose fatty proteins to whey. We do, but just less, because Claudia: If you think that ladling is just about transferring the curds from one vat to another, think again. Billy showed me how to do it, and I had a go myself. Billy: So, the thing to Keep it quite flat and Claudia: And that's it? Billy: Very good. OK, so you also need to.... It needs to all come So you can't have some deep, some not. So it needs to be exactly Same here. Claudia: So, I'm just gonna Billy: And that bit of cheese is now dead. And you can let Craig have Claudia: [laughs] Thank you. So, you know when you say, &quot;One day I'm gonna quit everything and become a cheesemaker&quot;? [laughs] Not an easy task. You have to think it through. Billy: So, once we've ladled, we will then allow it to settle, and again, And then you will drain that whey. And once you start draining the whey, the bacteria that's in the curd will start to multiply and produce quite a high level And then the next morning, we'll come in, and at a specific lactic acid point, we will break the curds by milling, so it's a uniform size, hand-mix the curds, and form it up into a cheese hoop, as you see behind me. Claudia: The cheese is to allow some of the The cheese is turned every day, and when it's dry enough the mold is taken off. Billy: We need to stop at that stage, because if with Stilton, it won't taste right, because you're changing So we will take a knife, rub the outside of the cheese. And by rubbing the outside of the cheese, we create a barrier, so And we stop the mold growth, at that particular stage of production. Claudia: Then the wheels When they're five or six weeks old, they are pierced to allow oxygen in, which will activate the blue mold and produce the Stilton's Then the cheese matures Billy: Put it on straight All the way around. Right, now gently bring it out. Claudia: So this one Billy: Almost. Not quite. I mean, the other end might not be quite so firm, because they don't mature in uniform. So, what we should see, it'll start the blueing process from the center and work out, so we can tell, looking at that, it's not ready yet because Mind your finger when So, push into the center, stop, finger on. Now use your other hand. Claudia: Like that? Billy: Finger on, use your thumb, and have it up in the gap, and then pull it out gently. And then just clean it so that that's covering the hole. Claudia: We've got a slice so, I'm so excited to give this a try. First thing that I want to point out about this is that it's not that smelly. You know how blue cheeses for being so smelly. It's actually all right. Oh, it's so good. It just disappeared. It just melted, like that. The texture is nice and crumbly. Even if this is some sort of hard cheese, so it's not that creamy, it actually is on your palate. It has some, like, sweet when you first taste it. And then you're left with a bit of salty aftertaste, which is incredible. I mean, you know, you get two It's so good. I'm gonna have another one. The sweetness of the blue veins, so good, and also if you get a mini piece without the blue, that in And, again, the texture is incredible. So crumbly, and it's something that I haven't had with other blue cheeses that are kind of gummy. This one is so nice, melts Stilton is a registered trademark by the Stilton Cheesemakers' Association, which was founded in 1936. The trademark protects the cheese in countries including Within the EU, the cheese was also granted the Protected Designation