Please give it up for the Keep it going for everybody All right, so I have so much to tell you. First off, you're gonna hear me slur, you're gonna hear me mumble. I'm not drunk, here's what I'm on stage, as I'm of my face starts to become paralyzed. And like any dude, I I'm gonna go to Arby's and then I'm gonna see how So I go to Arby's and the this face, my right just lower and lower and like this, right? So I take a picture of my face and then I send it to my brother who's a heart surgeon, and I go, is this a stroke? Right? And then I eat some curly fries. And then... All the sudden I get a where, you ever just have and just the text bubble is just lasting longer than you would like it to So I'm sitting there, eating waiting for him to respond, right? And then all the sudden it disappears. I'm like... Okay, what happened to him? Did he just have- Did he fall? What happened to him now? Then, all I got back from him was an emoji thumbs up I'm like, okay what took you, the right skin color for the thumbs up? Then... the text bubble comes So I'm like oh my god, then all the sudden an ambulance a guy running and then a headstone So now I'm trying to read 'cause I'm like, I don't Like that guy, I get it, I or shouldn't I run to a hospital? I have so many questions about this. But then I'm like, you're a doctor, how is a headstone in your current emojis? Like, that seems like something it shouldn't be something you used on a daily basis, right? So then, like any guy, now I'm gonna be honest with you, but not because of what I don't even know if I I don't even know if I'm And then I'm worried, probably it probably covers parking. Right? I'm like, maybe I'll just wish this away. But by this point I and it's everything drooped, right. So I go into the ambulance, I get to the hospital and I'm laying in the bed thing and they do all these tests. And it wasn't a stroke, Bell's Palsy where it's side of your face just goes... I'm out, I'm done. Right? So your face starts to is like, this is weird, the Let me call- let me call customer support of the nervous system and just see. So then your brain calls customer support and then the nervous system's Well, the left side's working, but the right side is it's not, the eye is not even blinking, I've got nothing, nothing's coming out of the right side. And then, customer support's like okay, here's what we want you to do, you're gonna have to just unplug the entire thing for 30 seconds. And then your brain's like, you want me to unplug the entire face? Yeah, just, just unplug it for 30 seconds and then just tell me what's going on. Okay. All right, so what's going on? The left eye is blinking, but Yeah, uuhhh... Can I put you on hold, so I And then I asked, right, I'm like okay, so with things, like yeah, you lost the of your face, nothing works. And I go, well, do you to make it, you know, work again? And then the doctor literally Eehhh He literally just instead you learned in medical school. Okay, those of you who if you tell your teenager to do something they respond as if you So, it's literally like I asked Is your homework done? Hey, can you throw this My whole day is ruined! So then I go, okay, is there medicine? He goes, well, there's like a steroid, but we can give you, but it's basically, you know how on Halloween It's basically all it is. It's just a sugar pill, but you feel better 'cause So then I go, okay, well, without a right side of my face? 'Cause I would like all of it And again, he goes... well, well, ugh, uh, uh He goes, it could never come back... And then he paused, he goes, could be a couple of weeks, some people, 40% chance of healing And then I'm sitting there going, you're gonna lead with never? Just as a comic, I know I wouldn't lead with never. And then he goes, but it's stress-related. So okay, well, you know what, the left side is now twitching, so... You keep talking, everything 'cause we'll, we'll and then everything's symmetrical again. I'm like you have nothing you've told me I can't get better and you If I would've went to anybody who sells essential oils... They would've had more of a cure for me than what I'm hearing right now. They would've pulled out Oh, you've got the Bell's Palsy curse. Hold on. And then, uh, it's viral and then some oregano and some peppermint, and then we'll just and you should be fine, right? But then, what's weird, all the CAT scans or whatever it's called, they go, we need an before you kind of go on. And that was a weird question for me because it was also right when, right smack dab when my right when everybody was Huh, I wonder why my face imploded? Anyway, so right, so. Correlation? I don't know. Anyway, right, they go we need a number for you to write for and it was the first time that question, I didn't have the go to number I'm like, well, um I'm not giving you my brother's number 'cause he's just gonna You're gonna end up getting two hands up in the field goal position. Check his eggplant! Laughing emoji Right? So then they go, well, we need somebody, we can't just put you in without a number. I'm like, I don't know, who lives in this area? Maybe somebody who could use Right, so then here's my big, here's my life lesson out of this, right? Here's my life lesson, 'cause And it was right when and I know everybody in this room, you have something goin on and you wish it wasn't going on, and if it wasn't, you think Well, here's the deal. You're strong enough to you've got going on in your life, and the fact that you are shows me your bottom isn't even that deep. Right? Even if you think your life sucks, oh man, my life sucks. Just, you know what, accept it. It's your reality changes, Deal with it, 'cause don't challenge life. 'Cause there was like a week I'm getting a divorce, my life sucks, my life can't get any Then life went... whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa I'm sorry, did you just say something? I was... I feel challenged. Do you think I cannot? Do you think I cannot Is that what you just said? All right, how about this, How about right after you've right when you're single, I drop the right side of How about I melt the entire like you had a real tough hot I wanna see you change your I wanna see if you're man enough to put what you really look like today. I wanna see you change hey, looking for a female into the Phantom of the Opera guy Hit me up. Then I gotta order that mask from Amazon. Music of the night Looking for a girl with Who's into goalies? Hit me up. Right, so then I'm sitting where I'm thinking about 'Cause my reality life unfolds, life unwinds, So now I get to live anywhere Right, I'm moving out of Los I'm like I'm gonna post all over the country, where am I gonna? And I go, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna get a shipping container house and it's gonna be awesome, container house and I'm gonna drop this shipping container house It's gonna be in the middle of 30-acres, I'm gonna have a long gravel driveway with colored markers along the driveway, that way if a vehicle's approaching I'll know how many yards And unless your vehicle or Amazon Prime, I'm putting a bullet through the engine block. Right? But then, I'm like you know that's probably how I really wanna live, but now that I'm single, and be like, hey, you Okay, where do you live? All right, it's gonna get weird. Huh, this is where I lose 'em. Anyway, uh, you're gonna a gravel road, you can you're gonna drive until your cell reception Okay. Right about the time you think you're in Canada, and then you're gonna come to a river. There's gonna be a boat and pull yourself across the river and then get out of that, and then there's gonna he's gonna ask you a riddle And then... If you get the riddle correct, he will tell you what path to go down. Then, you'll go down a path, and then you're gonna see you're gonna think that's mine, that's a decoy, that's the burner container. Mine is actually buried under that in case there's surveillance from the air. So that's exactly... 'Cause I don't know how solid So, so I'm just... I'm gonna be living underground Right, and also the whole I have a roommate or a curtain mate or whatever you wanna call him. And this gentleman, this that I went into the emergency room. So it's Christmas Eve, the He cut his hand carving turkey And the whole time he's about the millennials who Nonstop the entire I'm these millennials, this whole Look at, and this guy's he's like but these- oh millennials. Like, why can't there I'm like, mm, nah, and then... I'll be like, did that guy Right, so... Why is he eating all my jello? That's my jello. Right, so the whole time he's And then some kid was having a hard time, like a tube fell off and he's like see, he doesn't even know how to run that machine. I'm like dude, stop talking, you don't know how to work a knife. You cut your hand open, everyone knows you cut away from you. You cut away that's Cub Scout week one crap right there You don't cut towards you. Why don't you worry how to do in life and let Right? And that was a big, And I've also been guilty of it. If you're older at all, stop complaining about Just stop, save your energy, Well, problem with kids today is that. You know what? They are living in a different world than the one you were lucky So stop. Well, yeah, but 20 year olds, right? 20 year olds bug- Yeah, that's the deal. You bugged people You just did it in a member's only jacket Listen, if you're in your 20s, you are annoying, I'm But that's your job, if you're 20, you're supposed to annoy that's how it works. If you're 70 plus then you were a beatnik reading your dumb poetry, at 60s or 70s. If you were a little bit you smelled, you bugged When I was in my 20s, I'm roller blading past them. With my corduroy shorts. 'Cause it's always important to still wear corduroy My corduroy shorts my Spuds MacKenzie shirts My Polo cologne, which is crapped out the right side of my face. I was too consistent on one side, I should've sprayed in front of me, then stepped into the mist. That would've been more healthy, but I sprayed on the right, it lied dormant for 40 years, and then right when the stress came out then that's when it just collapsed the right side of my face. You people who wore Drakkar Noir, Good luck, I don't what's Right, that's the thing. Younger people have and there's nothing wrong with it. I'm sure that there was some who had a cup and a string and a ball, and that kid was minding his own business trying to catch the And they're like, yeah, And then, some dick Ugh, we never had the cup and Their face is in the cup and They're not even paying attention. Back in my day we were looking out for pterodactyls Kids today don't even know how to throw spears at dinosaurs. But here's the deal if you are in your 20s to what older people are complaining about because you will grow into Believe it or not, if you're 20 years old, I was where you were So listen, if you're 28, there's no way I'm smarter than you. There's no way that I even think I will make the case that I've seen more of the I will make the case that I'm So I have some spoilers for you. It doesn't mean I'm smarter than you. I can give you some of the plot lines that you'll see as you get older. Oh boy, where do I start? One of the episodes you're gonna learn what a no fault 50/50 state is. That'll be an expensive episode. Yeah. And then, there'll be all those condoms in your That's when you'll realize of getting a stomach ache Okay. I'll adjust. There'll be the episode where Right? You guys in your early 20s, you don't even know you had a bladder. Right, 'cause you don't make decisions based upon your bladder's capabilities. Your first thought if you gotta drive any decent amount of distance won't be, how many times am I gonna You will one day change your And then you'll pull out the seating chart and then you'll look and see where's my seat in 'Cause you don't wanna 'cause here's what happens. When the drink cart gets to you gotta wait til row So what you learn is you get row 20. Then that way as the drink cart's coming, you can use the cart to block other people and you can run to the bathroom and use the cart to cut off the lifeline for the rest of the cabin. And then jump back into your seat right before the cart comes like the first &quot;Indiana Jones&quot; Right? To have my 20 something Are you kidding me? You don't even know! Right, if you guys, if you're if you're downtown decide to take a leak You can stop and you think you see a cop. You have the ability to shut down the stream Re-holster it... Completely dry Completely dry You can be like hey guys, I Re-holster it completely dry. And I've said completely to make a point. Let's jump to season 48. We're gonna skip a lot of seasons, let's just jump to season 48. Okay, now it's season I don't pee in alleys behind dumpsters, that's what kids do, okay? Now, I'm a respectable man Now, I'm peeing on the golf Okay? And what's gonna happen is and as you're peeing, you're and then that's when you're gonna have a weapons malfunction. That's when... That's when everything's And you're gonna forget all your training. There's a reason why we That way we get steps in our muscle memory so that's- you gotta put the rounds in. That way you just know, so that way you know. But you're gonna forget all your training when it's a dry fire drill. Fellas, I'll speak to you, let's go over some quick training tips. Always point it down range, always know where it's pointing at. Never point it at anything Very important. Second biggest rule Always assume it's loaded Always assume it's loaded Always clear it before it's clear, it's clear. If you're gonna hand it to somebody else, have them go clear, clear. Again, whoever you're handing clear, clear it first. Get off the X, don't But you're gonna forget all that and you're just gonna dump it, you're just gonna dump and that's when you're gonna misfire and have the big half dollar piss mark right on your pants. A big half dollar piss mark on Then, you get to have this with your wife when your wife goes... Do you piss your pants? And then you're like what, are we talking about my underwear? Yeah, you just have a lot It's gross. You're like, can we not talk Yeah, but no, but your underwear is gross. Okay, that's fine, but you know what, there's times I've I've had questions. How deep in this 'Cause there's been times and I've just And I didn't say anything I'm sure she's aware of the situation. It's probably not her first rodeo. I'm sure there's an I'm probably just gonna go about my life. There's another episode, the I don't know, the bread At 20 something, at 30 and it really doesn't affect you whatever food it is you're eating. I remember when I was in my early 20s I used to live in Chicago, and I remember walking out of a bar at whatever, four or five o'clock trying to find your car. And this is back when it nobody had a problem with it. Right? If you just found a street if you just ate a hot dog, you Hot dogs were made different back then. For every four shots, one hot dog... Sober Right, so, but I remember like walking, getting a street vendor hot right, wolfing it down, ever buying any water or anything to drink to wash down all the I just have no, I don't Okay, so season 48, I I grabbed a pinch-full I didn't go full biscuit of biscuit, tossed it into my mouth, it got right about here... And then I just went all right, this is how I die. Okay. I'm probably not gonna text my brother to see if I'm choking. So, and then I'm like, but this is weird, I'm not choking, but the This is- I'm like, is this what a snake feels like when it eats a mouse? 'Cause this would be horrible. I would be a vegetarian if I was snake just 'cause this is a pain in the ass. Like did I swallow, it piece of bread Did I swallow one of those dinosaur pills that when it gets wet it Right, or like you ever eat and then you swallow it, you're like, I think it's I'm like that edge of there is no way I'm there is no way I'm not. I actually, I'm not kidding you, I had to look that up once. I literally, it hurt so bad. I'm like okay, so when is that when it stabs me, like? I literally went to WebMD and I went... Can you bleed out from a Dorito? And I need medical Don't judge me about where So I need, so- Can you And before the website gave me any type of medical information, this box pops up with this picture and the box just says... Are you a robot? And I went, no, I'm not a robot I'm bleeding out from a Dorito. And just, like I don't know, I just... I just don't know if Okay, listen, if you're click on the picture of Then I'll know you're not a robot. And then, okay, I don't want, I've never passed that test my first try in the history of my life. So, I already have test And then, second, I those pictures are taken from. But I get confused, they're I'm like, I don't know, maybe and they use, like I don't know. I don't know, that could be &quot;Click on the crosswalks&quot; there's not a straight line that's all that weird like, I don't know what that is. Well, click on the truck. I don't see a truck, that, I see a vehicle with one front tire, that's not a truck. I'm not giving up my belief Show me an F-150, I'll But you know what, I don't see a truck. Give me another picture. Okay, just click on the motorcycle then. I see a scooter, is that the question? I don't see anything that would You know what? I identify as a robot So, what are you gonna You're gonna judge me? I identify as a robot. Matter of fact, computer, you're a robot, quit being a self-hating robot. What else, there's also this episode, and I am jealous, keep in mind, a lot of the things that if you're younger. Here's what I'm jealous of. I am jealous that you to do something after this show. Okay? And here's the thing about life. Sometimes in life we are Sometimes in life you're so that you forget the journey from A to B. The journey, getting to where you're going is where all the life actually happens. So all, right, you will age in your life now, you're And some of us need a little bit of help in certain situations, some of us I wish it was either an app or a wallet or maybe kept something in your purse where it had a scenario guide and you can match your and it just tells you if you should do it, yes or no, right? We all, some people, I'm 37, should I tell people how No. Right? I'm 55, should I cry like a baby when a phone gets taken away so I pay attention? No! Everybody gets their sippy Relax, so. Right, so you'll all age out of stuff and you're gonna age out of that. So if you're younger and you have plans to do something later just take a moment and enjoy look at the time and go boy, it is late, I'm having a good time, I got a buzz on, because life will unfold, and one day you're gonna wake up and go, I don't need to be up Right, as a comic, I usually I gotta say, shortly after this I'm gonna start doing 2:00 and 4:00's So get on that mailing list We're gonna... We'll get this done, drop whip to my show, pick 'em up. I think that'll be, that should So mommy and daddy will be right back, we'll running to the store. Just come here, hang out, have a drink, go back, pick 'em up. And now, if you're younger though, you're thinking, well, I if you know, you don't how do you have a good time in my life? Okay, here's a little secret in life, that I'll- this was in but you gotta kinda really- so I'll just tell you what it is. Here's why older people still even though they go to You can do 3:00 AM shit at noon. Any trouble you younger can be found during the day. You don't need to be in trouble and tired. Right, you're always gonna party, but eventually you're gonna get And you're gonna from into going, you know, you got anything that will just knock me out? I just wanna, I just wanna be done Can I have that pill I don't, I don't wanna be dead, but I don't wanna be alive. So... I just want my whole body to feel like the right side of my face, that's all I would take a sleeping pill every night just because I was too That's the point of life that I just hit where just falling asleep is too much work and I just don't have it in me, right? Now, if you're younger, you right, if you're in your when your body just shuts down, right? That you pass out, you Well, there is time when you start doing some I need to be in bed in five hours, I should probably start I'm gonna start the wind down process. I'm gonna be in bed in about five hours. I should just put my sleepy That way I'm just ahead of the game. And if I'm gonna be in bed in five hours, I should just lay on the couch 'cause what am I gonna get So... I'll just, I'll just lay on so I can go to bed restful. Right, but I would have to stop taking, 'cause my sleeping pills, I would lose my memory on 'em. Like it just, they're not good for you. Like I would lose my memory. I would literally, there were times where I would forget if I took 'em. I would literally go... I should take a sleeping And then I'll mess around on my computer, then about 20 minutes into the I'm still- I'm not a And then about 20 minute after that I have to ask myself Did I take the sleeping pill? I don't even remember if- but I don't know if I took it. And then I start playing okay, let's see, I was sitting here, I think I was here for a while, somebody brought me a bottle of wine, I don't know who got me that, but I've been drinking the wine. I made some grilled cheese sandwiches. I think I have a peanut in the Insta-Pot, I hope that turns out. I don't know if I took the Ambien. You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna take one more and then I should chase it with NyQuil just in case it's a placebo. And then I would start buying stuff online and actually eating. The amount of food I ate on and the mess I would make was even worse. I would shovel cereal and then at some point I'm feeding pigeons I'm salting steps, I'm fertilizing stuff. I'm throwing confetti, I don't know what I'm doing, right? And then, and this is the case, like if, then I started buying things online just like random stuff that I didn't remember. And we all do that, you all come home, maybe you're drinking a little and you start making And here's the deal, get some protection, Amazon should know you put anything in something's up, right? That's when a box should Are you drunk? And then you're like, no, I'm not drunk, just, I don't know, just tell Okay, and then it shows and if you touch the screen, yeah, you just tried to eat the We're shutting you down, from 10 to 3:00 from now And I gotta tell you, I've bought a lot of really cool things and I've never returned anything so whatever subconscious I have that gets a little loosey goosey I buy some good stuff Here's some things that I've bought One time, I got a hoodie... that holds a cat Maybe the greatest purchase I've ever made in my entire life. It's just literally, it's a hoodie, you can put your cat or if you don't have a I keep everything in that pocket. I have TV remotes in there. I got the side gate key, I I got a PowerBar, some some reading glasses Playstation controller It's kind of like my bug out hoodie, I could run into the off of what's in that pocket for about like a day and a half. And I'm lucky I didn't do other stuff like when I became an ordained minister on a sleeping pill but there's other things. I watched so much TV and I'm just lucky they didn't and I just heard a knock and there's two moving guys standing there with that bathtub with the door on it. And I'm like oh man, I pulled I do not remember that night. It's probably the same night I got qualified for a reverse mortgage. Well, you're here, I got Now listen, if you're in your 20s, you probably don't know what the bathtub with the door on it is. 'Cause they don't play that But basically, once you get older, stepping over anything becomes a huge pain in the ass So you're not gonna so that's why the bathtub is convenient, but I about the bathtub with Here's one. You get into the bathtub, You turn on the water. How long is that fill process? I just see me just as the water is now up to my ankles. Like I'm a captain of and I've decided I'm gonna and I'm just sitting there That just seems like a looking at yourself, just... Just like a long time to sit I don't feel any positive I think that bath would do at the end of the day with and your body image. Then, when you're done and how long does it take for the water to drain? And... do you have dirty bathtub rings on you? I don't know how you wouldn't! Like, and then if you had a right when you got out, from your rings- you got Temperature was 82 degrees 22 minutes after the bath started is when you threw in a lush bath bomb You can tell by the around your ankles that There's that that I'm lucky I didn't get and then there's also I'm and then there's also I'm is that Acorn Chairlift. Okay, if you're younger and It is a chair that starts and that chair takes you or it takes you down, right? And if it's in the middle, 'cause you've got, you gotta- you gotta free climb down But here is why I want the The commercial for it is- There's a woman somebody's Nana And she has perfect posture and she's just slowly going up the stairs. Okay, and it's maybe to be honest with you, I've of life, there's that just seems So. Fuckin'. Peaceful. I want seven steps of I'll get back to the fight of life, but can I have a seven stair break please? 'Cause if you're strapped to that chair, the world can't expect anything from you. That is your time. That is all about you. Unless you live with a dick, then they're gonna throw a Or your cat's gonna ride you But if somebody calls you at that moment, you can- I'm gonna assume You just open up your flip phone and you can be like yo, I'm I'm gonna lose you And then you're like okay, into chair mode and then And then you just take a breath. Take a breath and slowly go up the stairs looking at old family photos. Speaking of old family photos, I just went through, my but I went through her storage And I'm my mom's only kid and I ended up throwing away almost 'cause I don't have kids And I had a big thing- and as a person I'm also trying to get I just want to just- I don't want anything anymore, I've reached the stage, stuff Stuff is dumb, I'd rather do Here's the lesson of that though. If you have older children, you can get your older children Is a bonfire... And... Burn your shit in front of your kids. Yeah, but what about grandma's hutch? It smells like cigarettes, So, I was going through my mom's stuff and I found a box of my old and then what was cool was I also found the order form which I haven't seen in a while. Remember the A package, B Right? And it was funny, as a kid, 'cause my parents always got I'm like, why are we And then you look, it's a money grab from your school system. An A package, your kid They're not signing autographs Right? But then, now kids can and then submit that picture which must be nice, 'cause at any of your elementary school pictures. Or I'll speak for me, I don't Or I'll speak for me, I don't my parents knew it was picture day. There's no way I was wearing It literally looks like I'm still wearing my pajama top. It's just a random shirt and every year it just So by fifth grade I just look like an out of shape superhero. Pop-Tarts all over my Haircut from the night before when I told my mom, mom, for tomorrow's pictures. And my mom's like, I'll And then you're like, no, you can't. Can you take me someplace That costs money. It's two packs of Benson But so, can we go somewhere? No, I'll cut it. And then she'd go into the junk drawer and pull out those orange Those same scissors pop the lid off paint cans and cut pizza Cut the dog crap off the dog when it got matted right there. We'd always run around the house, mom's trying to cut our hair with the dingleberry scissors again. You wouldn't even care about germs, you would see your mom with those scissors, those you'd use to open up those I love me the Otter Pops! What flavor you have? I have strawberry dingleberry. What about you? I got grape dingleberry. So back to this Acorn Chairlift, here's also why I'm obsessed, ooh, I have some questions. So, right, I was married, But now that I'm single this late in life, but who knows, right? So now, let's say I do have a kid. Is that kid gonna wreck my 'Cause I would have a... Right, I would be Acorn Chairlift age and have a teenager, I don't in my Acorn Chairlift plug it back in! That's when my cat pops Like, plug it back in! I'm going to the dance dad. No, you're not, plug it back in! Then I gotta hit my Hello, Life Alert? No, I haven't fallen, I'm trapped about three steps up though. Nope, got no power, nope. Didn't get the emergency hand crank 'cause I didn't know my I had to take an Uber or Lyft recently and here's the only thing I don't like when I get into a random Uber or Lyft, is I just, I always hate when why you're in town, what are you doing? Stuff like they say. I don't mind random questions, Like when I get picked up from my house, I hate when they go, where you off to? How long you gone for? I don't know, how much for you to rob me? 50/50 no fault state, no Right, so I always just make up stuff. Like I literally will lie to a driver my entire trip about why I'm in town. I think it's hilarious I always go, uh, I'm a chocolatier. And then as we pass a we just bought that building, we're gonna turn that And you see the excitement when you tell them a chocolate factory is coming to their city. And they'd be like, the high school? Yeah, the high school, But that's where I went to high school. Well, it's a chocolate factory, I don't know what to tell ya. The younger the driver One time I was the group Hanson's dad. And I just talked about how I wrote MMMBop I hit Zac's head on the crib I'm like MMMBop... dah daaah dooooobop *sound on* One time I landed in Phoenix, this is key, I landed in Phoenix and they And I go, oh, I paint. And they go, are you an artist? I go, no, I do commercial painting. I think we're done. They go, what type of I go, we paint lighthouses. Phoenix is a tough market for us. And then he wasn't even paying attention. He just goes, what kind of paint do they use on lighthouses? Waterproof usually. Waterproof and you're not allowed to paint waves or We had one guy, he was very Just wasn't a fit. Here's one of my favorites though. One of my favorites is a guy goes, what are you in town for? I said, installation. He goes, what are you installing? And I go, oh, I own a trap door company. And we're putting trap doors in most of the 7-Elevens in this area. That way if they ever get robbed, then the cashier just- ouussshh! As that's coming out of why does that not exist? That seems like an easy fix for a lot of problems, just trap door 'em, let's just trap door 'em. Here's probably why, right? If you had a trap door you know you'd be pulling that You know somebody would be like, listen, we're allowed six trap door removals, we're at like 47, so you You know if you're a cashier and somebody's buying cigarettes You're done! Hey, did you know they're into a chocolate factory? You're done! Hey, is Hanson playing in- You're done! And why would I stop there? Why would I not have That even sounds funner That way your boxes aren't gonna be stolen off your porch, and when you had answering machines, right, how excited you were, or had groceries, you'd come home, you looked at your just to see if anybody called you. You mean to tell me you to check the trap door I think you'd be as excited. Then you'd look and it trying to sell candy Like oh man, sorry buddy. I always have to do that, I knocking on the door, selling candy bars for something they're It's a good call, people love chocolate, it's good, it's a no-brainer. I don't know why kids are the only ones allowed to sell chocolate. I think I should be able to. I'm in a different city every week. I think, you know, or anybody. I think you should be able if you need something, knock on the door, and if they answer, you'd be like, hello. My, I, I, I'm selling candy bars so I can learn how to And this is teaching me skills s-so... We have chocolate and milk chocolate and all the proceeds for these candy bars will be going to purchase of putter my wife does not know about. Or possibly a drone. Okay, I'll take a few, that's awesome. What type of drone you gettin? I had to get a new car recently 'cause the state of California And uh... I don't buy new cars, that's not my thing, is I usually buy a car, 100-some thousand miles on So I always miss out 'cause I'm usually pretty far behind. So the car I got now is and I gotta say, it's a weird- Like I have buddies telling me, you should just get a I'm like yeah, but Teslas are great cars, but your car rats you out every night. Every night you're done it's like yo, Elon, you Here's how fast he drove, he listened to, here's how here's your normal routes. You need your car to be a You can't do anything That's why I have an idea, okay? I'm gonna start a startup of dealerships, it's gonna be called BurnerCar.com And there's gonna be no technology. And if you need my car for I'll walk you in the lot going oh, there's a Ford Escort, there is Probe. That's awesome. We got a Fiero. In case you're planning on doing cocaine and going to a racketball so we've got that for ya. That's got a cassette/CD That's awesome. But it's weird, my car here's some features that I'll get used to it. One, it's a push button start, and that's a little weird for me just because I like seeing keys hang so at least I know where the keys are. Right? Already with my new car I've been whipping down the freeway doing 80, then I don't know where the I'm checking my cat hoodie, where the keys are to the car. But they're on me or But I'm like, well, what if I don't know if I actually. There's been times where, and then when I, when I stop, there's been hit the button to turn off the car 'cause I'm not doing the normal. One time I went into a and my car was still running. I'm like... Was it running that whole time? But I also did that, I'm just a dumb-ass, I forgot to turn my car off, but old school cars, I forgot and I've done that move, Like ha-ha, ha-ha, ha-ha. I didn't know it was on, No. or you ever do this move in your car and the car and you're like, oh my God, oh! I thought I was going in But here's the deal, like and here's how lucky you you haven't even experienced this 'cause your car, even was still built in the 2000s. Cars not turning over, cars not and that was, that was part of your life, wondering if your car is gonna start. You would leave earlier in the morning to see if your car- Just to show you, side note, how much technology has changed. There was a time where Remember, you didn't have a watch, you didn't have a phone you would go to work and you didn't know if you were late or not. You would just have to go on gut instinct. And feel, maybe if you lived by a bank, you could look at what time But cars didn't always turn over. Like depending on if the depending on what radio before you turned it off. Remember, you'd sit there *sound on* and then you'd have to just BAM! BAM! BAM! BAM! Then, if you're a teenager, would throw open the You're floodin it! Right, then you'd have look at him, what? what? what? I'm not flooding it, what? what? Then you'd have to put then that way your car would with no noise, you get a and that's when you try- Then that dad would swing open the door, you're floodin it! But remember how excited you were when the car turned over, when it would finally start, I won! I wish my new car when you hit the button, it would make the old noise, and then just start, 'Cause then I would be like, This is awesome. So then, when we were at the dealership, the guy goes, put the car into park and then we'll go inside and So I'm sitting there and I'm moving it, and I'm I see like one, two, reverse, neutral, and I'm just, I'm moving I'm like, I don't see park anywhere. And then the guy goes, you take this finger, you and you have to reach around the handle and there's a button I'm like, seriously, I have to find the G-spot of the handle? This seems very uncomfortable. Every time I have to park Is this okay? Is this okay? Is this okay? If you don't wanna do this, Is this okay? You know what, you just do it yourself, I'm just gonna watch, My hands are gonna be up like this. I'm gonna FaceTime my friends so they see there's And I'm not touching anything from now on, I'm not touching nothing. But it just doesn't feel with the buttons, it just doesn't have that old school finale, there's no- And that's the deal, you don't know what it feels especially if you're hitting buttons. Some of you people in here older than me knows what it feels like when and your gear, your shifter And you'd be like, done! Right, just shifter, I'm done! Your grandpas knew when There wasn't a question. If they were pissed off at somebody, they could pull next to 'em, done! You can't do that now. Now you pull next to somebody like, uh, I'm just, let me just Let me sign out of my What'd you say to me? Like it just doesn't Like your whole generation of slamming shit. That's the one thing If you're in your 20s, you don't know what it feels like to You don't know what it feels like because you still have that anger built- you don't know what it feels You don't even know what a house phone is! Right? House phones used to be and I just remember my dad, just getting so mad that he would start smashing the receiver. Or he'd slam it down. The phone itself weighed 50, 60 pounds. That you could use it as If you thought somebody was in your house, you'd grab your whole phone I'm gonna smack you. And with the receiver, you then choke them with the cord. And as they're passing if you'd like to make a call, You don't know what Like even parents now can't slam things. If you were a kid in the like 70s or 80s and you had that minivan, everybody knows what that Astro van when your parents would slam that door. When your parents were mad, it'd go-- and then as fast as they Right, you could tell your mom was mad 'cause she didn't even give She would just-- You can't slam stuff you get mad at your kids, you're like, you do not act that way in public! Then you gotta hit the button Who put their hand in front of the sensor? You gotta hit the button again, Reopens, put your hand in front watch what happens to you. I was thinking back to when I was a kid, I have no memory of any type I have zero memory of- I got me around as a kid, right? But I do have memories in my parent's car. I remember waking up a lot of times in the middle of the night in the backseat of my parent's car walking into the house going, so you brought in groceries, Yeah, I woke up 'cause I was shivering 'cause it's 42 degrees outside. So, I guess I just don't eat dinner? Is that what happens, so you just? You know what, I got pictures tomorrow, I'm just gonna wear this 11 Hopefully your day went okay. Okay. I don't remember any type of car seat. I remember going to my literally sitting in of my grandpa's car, just Look it, I'm higher Pre-drink holder, that's when your grandpa would open up his can of beer *psssht* Hand it to you, you would Then he lights up his Pall Mall No-Filter. I love Pall Mall No-Filter. Sure hope this second-hand smoke doesn't crap out Johnny's face 42 years from now. Like what are the car seat laws now? They're kind of insane. I think your kid still if your kid's 5'7&quot;, 145 pounds. I feel sorry for anybody who's got a kid who wrestles at 98-pounds varsity. That poor kid is in a car seat going, I'm going to Regionals! I'm seeded third and I'm in a car seat! I'm not going to prom in a car seat! I'm not going to prom in a car seat. Yeah you are, buddy, I You're gonna be in a car seat. I'll vacuum out all the for ya so you could go, but- And your date's a little taller, she can be in a booster chair, but you're- you gotta be in a car seat my buddy Well then, can I face Guys, thank you so much for coming out! I really appreciate it guys! John Heffron, ladies and gentlemen!