On paper, the job market Unemployment hit a 54 January of 2023, and U.S. employers added 2.7 payroll in 2023 alone. The January jobs report market was off to a solid When we look at the hard that the labor market has fact, surprisingly after 2023 where we had and forecasts of look at the soft data, little bit less economy is doing and in market. Politicians just talking so great. I just want to But then how come no one Recently, unemployed full average of 30 jobs only four callbacks or If you look at the job little bit, but not down ask, you know, how hard them? The answer seems to So why does it feel so now? And is the U.S. labor market as strong as Hi. My name is Jenna I'm from Ardmore, of Philadelphia. This job market is like ever seen. I was frustrated just process has been going. I haven't quantified how applied to. It would be a at this point to quantify But it was definitely in 55% of unemployed adults from searching for a new Younger generations were 66% complaining of search. Looking for a job can be a There's a lot that goes Filling out applications can be time consuming and Every day, it just feels waking up doing the same When I looked at the data, job through a job board, hired were about 3%. So you got to apply to a order to have a chance to And you're going to get responses. And it's A 2023 study from mentions of applicants prospective employers before the Covid 19 We often hear from job tons and tons of don't even hear back, and emotionally and mentally It's unprofessional as It's like, especially if time to do an interview least let them know. I think it's because of It's easy to put up a job that job. So when you get response, it's often very every single solitary Certainly during the the market was at a fever being ghosted by something that hadn't past. So we've seen it the fence. And I think a just sheer volume. The time it takes for a employee also hit an all 44 days during the first industries like the taking more than 67 days Application process has longer with going through assessments. My worst a large financial phone screen with them, interview with one of the After that, I had a case very vague instructions. They got back to me and feel like there was another attempt. In the end, I just ended recruiter and saying sorry, I don't think this even if I did move with my revision, there three more interviews. A lot of employers think is a good thing. And it's not a good Most job interviews are important. They don't they're asking are going whether you are a good They don't know when they right answer is. And this is a development while. It's not a good And even if the labor would still be seeing There are generally two describe the state of the loose. Usually when economists market, they mean hot, Mostly what that means is employers to find And so in that context, hesitant to lay off They tend to try to be they hire, whether that offering on-the-job loose labor market or where there might be hiring freezes. It might for workers who are workforce or workers who workforce for the first The American labor market tight following the end So many companies had to pandemic, and then all at to hire again as their move. So you had so many at the same time. Job openings surged to country continued to devastating labor plentiful job prospects, quit their jobs at a in a trend that came to Resignation. But the job show signs of cooling. There's less of a frenzy employers. If you're you would like a frenzy employers because you people trying to hire I think one interesting right now is that it is rate is low, and is actually very low. The layoff and discharge has been hovering near barrage of layoffs within the more visible So I think what might be employers are hesitant to They're hesitant to push their recent experience But on the flip side, of workers are sitting quitting, they're not And so there aren't as opportunities you would attrition for folks who those roles. Meanwhile, research from seekers search intensity grew by 27% in 2023 before. In 2022, there active applicant on the By 2023, the ratio turned active applicants. Right now in the seeing is both employers little bit more taking a little bit more right now, being a little their choices. And that's bit of a cooling in the However, experts reassure market is no reason for It is important to have a little more historical on You know, if you're now and you can't find job market to you. But experience, it's a great I think that sentiment is expectations. So in 2021, shortages. Companies were And so even if 2024 is relatively healthy labor comparison, it doesn't A cooldown in the labor Federal Reserve had of interest rate hikes. If you are the Federal slow the economy down, slow the markets down a The biggest market is the If you look at what budget is, it's mainly So you can't easily cool you cool the labor market Experts also noted that market will largely rely headed next. If the economy does slow 2024, if we see a labor market can be can't fully buck the And so that's definitely out for in 2024. It's not a guarantee that remain as strong. Broadly speaking, we about the economy. That doesn't necessarily is an easy process. I guess the big thing I It's not you. It's other, hundreds of same time. And it has to do with bigger economy. It has to it also has to do with a employers about how they It's definitely, um, But I just encourage you keep diving into your tight with family and the emotional support at the moment and to give you can do it.