(upbeat music) - This may look just like your regular American fast food restaurant (speaking in Chinese) with a meal that comes with But if you look closely, that this burger has been made in China. I'm sitting in Tastien. It's China's answer to McDonald's, and as you can see it, you have all this language a Chinese burger for a Chinese stomach, and you can see that of Chinese imagery around. A little bit of McDonald's transported to Imperial era China. And Tastien is just one example of a Chinese brand China once presented a huge but now local challenges and that threatens dominance (gentle music) China is the world's second The country has more than 1 as an untapped gold This is Beijing's premier and you don't have to look far to see which companies There's American brands all around me. Over here we got Ralph Lauren, Tom Ford, and right behind me is of all of the brands, Apple. In the first quarter of 2024, Apple saw its smartphone sales fall 19% while that of its Chinese rival, Huawei Technologies saw its sales rise 70% For China, apple saw to $16.4 billion, and Apple isn't the only American company that's been struggling a little From luxury cosmetics firm, Estee Lauder, which is expecting sales in China to fall to retail giant Walmart, which has closed more than over the past five years. Executives of some of in China are increasingly worried about their weak - Local brands are expanding Any CEO who is worried his profits is going And we have seen stock prices fall. Nike stock prices fall, for of weakening performance in China. - [Speaker] China. - China once represented almost a fifth of Nike's global sales. Nike has long dominated but that's changing. Younger Chinese consumers towards brands that incorporate elements of traditional Chinese culture and style, and it's allowed brands to make inroads in a market by Nike and other Western brands. Chinese consumers are trying for size, and in many cases As the sponsor of the Anta has found a place among that matches growing - [Speaker] Anta supports of Chinese Olympic athletes. - It was very much linked to very big and bold expressions of Chinese pride. So think about your large logos, red and yellow color combination. It's resonating, especially because they don't have for the West as the past generations. It's not about, you know, blind kind of, I'll buy something from of it being from the West. - American brands have reaped huge profits by capitalizing on changing Starbucks largely created in a country long but supremacy is now under threat. At the end of 2023, Luckin China's biggest coffee Analysts credit luck and success to its operating model, which requires minimal Luckin prices its coffee often up to 50% less than Starbucks. - You know, there's a with coffee brands. Starbucks has largely avoided that. They are kind of committing They're focusing on what they do best. That should be the way for who feel threatened because you don't want your brand identity to get lost as you follow the trend. - Starbucks executives as the company positions But sales for Starbucks have dropped 8% during the first quarter of this year, while Luckin's have surged 41%. That contributed to the for the rest of the year. The announcement spooked the market causing Starbucks' share The US coffee giant still has plans to make China its biggest market, but it's now in a race to win wallets. In 2023, Starbucks opened nearly 900 bringing its total in the But in that same year alone, Luckin opened more stores than the entire Starbucks and now has nearly 19,000 locations. - Luckin is expanding tier three cities where that big of a presence. It's really forging its that resonates with who - American brands have had a near free run at the Chinese market for decades, but that's coming to an end. - I think to lose out on China not just in terms of dollars, but in terms of cementing of the largest consumer - What was once an enormous opportunity for American companies as Chinese rivals chip away But of course, the real question with this Chinese burger is not, you know, whether it is very Chinese or very American, it's about (upbeat music)