Particle physics is a mind-blowing subject world around you. By smashing two particles rules that govern the universe. While we call our theoretical understanding of particle physics, that actually is a little rather several theories that are cobbled together. And not all of the component theories are to talk to you about the most precise theory theory of quantum electrodynamics or QED. So just what is QED? Well, from the first related to the quantum realm. And the second the motion and interaction of electromagnetic They say that success has many mothers and in this case. The first step forward was made wed quantum mechanics and Einstein's theory were many other contributors, but the ones were Richard Feynman, Julian Schwinger and Prize in physics for their insights. Now all three of these guys were crucial contributors, is the easiest to understand. The reason is called Feynman diagrams that stand in for very easy to picture. Now, before we get into that in a big way, depends on two crucial components. The first is an idea called perturbation theory. and it would help you if you watched it. But with an equation that is too difficult to equation that is easier to solve. As long very similar, you'll get a reasonably correct you just use a more accurate approximation. The second idea is that every Feynman diagram of an equation. I made a yet a different video right now just remember that when you see in for an equation. And every diagram has Okay- so with those ideas out of the way, So suppose you wanted to simply calculate at one another. If you have any classical in terms of an electric field pushing the However this is, after all, QUANTUM electrodynamics, one of the big things here is that the electric and amorphous force field, the electric field photons. Thus the right way to think about the scattering particles exchange one or more photons. As does the electron that absorbs it. If multiple electron trajectories will reflect the contribution Since we don't know in any specific scattering can sort of draw it like this, with electrons the interaction, with an amorphous blob that going on in the collision. However, what we can do is employ Feynman is actually just the sum of all things that here are photons, while the straight ones photon exchanged. Then there is the situation uniquely identify which outgoing electron some other diagrams that really should come After the simplest two diagrams, things get could temporarily turn into an electron and are exchanging a photon, one of the electrons are tons of other possibilities. So is there a way to simplify this? It probably Remember that I said that these pictures were draw your attention to the spots where the call them vertices and they are key to figuring others. It turns out that photon emission or absorption reduces the probability by about a hundred In practical terms, that means we can simply each diagram contributes. The simplest electron There are no pictures with three vertices if there were, they would happen about one vertices would be 1% of 1% or 0.01%, etc. Thus we can see that the first and simplest more complicated Feynman diagrams are just a QED calculation is relatively easy. You diagrams, the simplest one does most of the Now, there are a couple of complications. diagram can change slightly the conclusion there are several pictures that have four A final messy thing that must be taken into about how one handles the Feynman diagrams diagrams like this, or this, or this. They renormalization, but that's a complication it in case you want to do some reading on So I've told you the basics of theoretical to actually do a calculation, but enough to I will talk about comparing calculations to line here. QED is, without a doubt, the most parts per trillion. It truly is a jewel in