December 10, 1945. Police enter an apartment at 3941 North Pine They discover the body of a woman lying over A bread knife is stuck in her neck. In the living room, there's a message on "For heAVens BeFore I Kill more This wasn't the first time the killer had In June of that same year, cops walked into in Chicago. There they found the body of 43-year old Josephine There'd been no forced entry. It seems the killer had let himself in through The woman had been killed while sleeping. Her jugular vein had been cut right through. The killer had then carried her body to the it in the bathtub. The cops found it still filled with water, Bloodied towels floated on the surface. The killer had then taken her back to her He'd bandaged her injuries as if he felt A skirt was placed over her head, and a stocking The killer had spent close to two hours in He cleaned traces of his fingerprints, which term investigators would use years later. His next victim was found with that haunting She was thirty-one year old Frances Brown. When she was discovered half-hanging into towels nearby. To hide her wounds, the killer had this time Only when they lifted them up, they saw the This victim had also been shot, once in the The killer had taken his time with the clean-up and water. He'd also used tape to cover her wounds. Perhaps in his twisted mind, he thought he Or, perhaps, different personalities inhabited killer, who after the fact turned into a repentant What astounded the police is how this killer He'd performed quite a dangerous stunt by her narrow window ledge. He could quite easily have fallen to his death. Cops knew now they were looking for someone And that message. It sent shivers down the investigators' Did this maniac really want to be stopped? Could he not suppress the urge to kill? He'd been meticulous in cleaning up the On the doorjamb that he'd touched with his January 6, 1946. A girl named Suzanne Degnan was abducted from The police discovered that the perpetrator In the bedroom was a ransom letter, scribbled Like the cops had seen before, the capital What would also become a matter of importance The note said: Do NoT NoTify FBI or Police. Bills IN 5's &amp; 10's. BuRN This FoR heR SAfTY." The next day some patrol cops were looking strange-looking in a sewer basin. They had to scrunch up their eyes. What they thought they saw was a large doll's The yellow hair of the doll was lying in the It wasn't a doll. It was the severed head of Suzanne. More police searched the nearby area, places been abducted. In no time at all, they found one of her legs Soon after, they discovered another leg. Her torso was found later in a storm basin. It took the police a month to find her arms. Again, what was strange was that this killer blood from the body parts. Cops assumed that the body had been dismembered laundry room. Close to that room, police found a bit of Still connected to it were strands of the The murders had all happened in close proximity, The modus operandi was the same in the first It didn't take a rocket scientist to connect with caution when joining the dots. For instance, if the killer was the same guy, her later? Why had he changed? Then the police saw some other dots forming They discovered that a 19-year woman had been to her through her bedroom window. The location of the crime was close to where Just days after that, a very nimble and acrobatic and dropped through a skylight like Spiderman That girl was named Evelyn Peterson, and she The assailant had hit her over the head, and through the things in her apartment. But this time, he decided not to kill the He just left her there. She was later discovered by her sister, who'd Just as the sister entered the apartment block, She remembered his face because he was quite She was locked out of her and her sister's and help her get in. Her sister at this point was still unconscious. That teenage boy banged and banged on the After a few minutes, Evelyn answered. Her hands were still partly tied, and her The teen held her in his arms and asked her She wasn't of course, so he guided her back clean her up. The guy then went downstairs and told the He said she'd been beaten up pretty bad. The kid then just took off, not even leaving Police found the girl in a state of shock. She was still trembling, only half-conscious. On looking at the skylight where the intruder The perpetrator had for some reason taken the room. It was also reported that another young woman attacked. This time someone shot at her through the She was injured in the arm, but it was only The perpetrator subsequently fled. All these attacks were similar, and all happened Surely there had to be a connection. This became a huge case in the US media. The term split personality wasn't part of seemed that there was a possibility that one that man was somehow mentally divided. He killed, and he cleaned, as if trying to outburst. It was reminiscent of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. There was also a hint of Jack the Ripper in The coroner told reporters that the killer He said the murderer was "a man who worked anatomy or one with a background in dissection...not The newspaper the Madera Tribune wrote that taking place. The paper said the number one suspect was where the body had been dismembered. That couldn't have been more wrong. The paper wrote that residents had come out grandfather" who'd never do such a thing. The manhunt continued. Then things got crazy a few months later. A caretaker of another apartment was being bunch of burglaries at his apartment. Every night he prowled around the place, making key. On the night of June 26, 1947, the caretaker When he approached the man, a gun was pulled, He was spotted not too far away by police, to shoot. Lucky for the cops, the gun didn't work on the floor. That wasn't easy. This guy, no older than a teenager, was certainly Just as soon as the cops thought they had somehow slipped out of their grip and got Another cop then jumped on and managed to the kid fought like a lion. One of the cops took drastic measures, picking over the teen's head. It should have knocked him out cold. It didn't even seem to bother him, so the head. Only now was the teen subdued. Who was this kid who had the strength of two who worked in the circus? His name was William Heirens, and he was just When he wasn't taking on policemen in the of Chicago where his impressive intelligence for talented students. He was popular, too, especially with the girls. Young Bill was quite the looker, and he had But it turned out that Bill had a checkered In his early teens, he committed scores of stole. He just kept all the things, so when cops found a stash that looked like a veritable If he'd sold the items, in today's cash His crimes weren't about money. Bill was sent to school for wayward boys after Even though he stole again and again, just student. So, when his former teachers and schoolmates with cops, they couldn't believe it. He was a good kid, smart as a whip. He got one with everyone. When that first murder was committed, Bill for the Chicago railroad. On the day the murder happened, he hadn't When the second murder was committed, he was There, girls flirted with him constantly. He was also a member of many clubs, ominously, When police took this guy in, they didn't murders. What they had in their interrogation room done a bit of wrestling in his time. But then they searched his dorm room...Now They found jewelry, guns, watches, and other They even found photos of well-known Nazi On top of that, they discovered war bonds cash. Police were given another shock when Bill kept at the Howard Street El station. There they found more war bonds worth over And this was a kid that on the outside looked Bill then told them about more of his stashes, worth over $1.1 million in today's money. He hadn't spent any of it. As serial killer historian Peter Vronsky points the burglaries were "purely pathological." Notably, one of the stolen items found was on sexual deviance. But murder, dismemberment, that was a whole Still, fingerprints found at the murder scenes The crimes had also taken place close to where Then witnesses came forward and gave positive Vronsky writes in his book: He just lay strapped in his bed, staring blankly Frustrated, Chicago police allegedly roughed a wall in the hope that would help his memory. It didn't." Now things get even stranger if you thought Police tortured him. They gave him truth serum. Quite unbelievably, they gave him a spinal This was Middle Ages stuff, and Bill didn't The police were desperate to get their man this pressure can lead cops to do things that Nonetheless, it was shown that Bill misspelled in that ransom letter. He had the loot from many burglaries close Those Nazi photos had been stolen down the He also fit the witness's description of It all seemed to point to his guilt. At one point, he made a deal with the prosecutor imposed, then later, Bill changed his mind. He confessed and changed his mind on a number Meanwhile, his mother said, "He's still He still got life in prison, but he always to police torture. Once when asked how much pain the murdered if she suffered. I didn't kill her. Tell Mr. Degnan to please look after his other still out there." Was he telling the truth? Well, over the years, he had a huge number They said he was a victim of a police conspiracy. They said Bill was nothing more than a burglar, cornered by immense public pressure. Human rights advocates later said his guilt in this case. A miscarriage of justice took place when the A petition said there had been prosecutorial science used, a terrible defense counsel, He might have killed those people, but in he would never have gone to prison. Even in the 2000s, when Bill was an elderly for his release. Vronsky, who's investigated the case as his guilt is the fact he knew things only use of a certain hunting knife to chop up Vronsky writes that Bill was almost definitely of a severe head injury when he was a kid. This seemed to change his behavior. After he was first imprisoned, doctors noted They said he had a very unusual tolerance Doctors shoved pins into his feet and under He didn't even flinch. This might explain his high-wire jumps and bashings. He may also have lost the ability to sympathize, Bill told the psychiatrists that since childhood, He was turned on sexually by wearing women's He said he had a collection of stolen underwear When the police went to look, they found out There were 40 pairs in total, mostly bright Perhaps at times, Bill changed into a different bodies. It might be why he didn't always kill his wall. Notably, he told doctors his favorite movie In some of his confessions, he admitted to body parts into the sewer. He said that happened after he dismembered That's why he threw a ransom note through He felt bad. He wanted the parents to think their daughter To give them "hope." He also once said he'd had an accomplice, But police could find no such man. It's likely he didn't exist. George was Bill's father's name. Murman could have stood for murder man. Maybe George was Mr. Hyde, and Bill was Dr. Vronsky wrote that since the age of nine Bill actions." In laymen's terms, that means he did things a sexual element to his deeds. If he didn't commit those murders, he was a complete psychopath. Vronsky thinks he probably did commit those Still, terrible police work and a cruel and it's paid by the public to do. For that reason, we just can't be sure of There is also pretty strong evidence that He was Richard Russell Thomas. He died in prison in 1974, and strangely, Chicago murders died with him. On February 26, 2012, William Heirens died He was 83, and one of the longest-serving Now you need to watch "Why This Generation Or, have a look at...