When I told people I was doing a video on was confusion as to what the game actually Is it a space combat game? Is it a first person shooter? Is it a virtual ship gallery that costs thousands Is it Star Wars? Their confusion is understandable, and can coverage of the game has seemingly become from the game's original 2014 release date initial Kickstarter funding goal. The occasional reports of management issues or the rather odd ways the game was making to me than the fact that this is the most and yet, from where I'm standing, barely Combine with an official website whose rather of community updates and podcasts and event as they are to keep people informed of project for real, definitive information on where at least through the official channels. In short, their messaging on this stuff has a general lack of understanding as to whether point. And honestly, I was in the same camp for a myself and the game thanks to the simple fact believe it when it's in my hands. For as many legitimate issues I have with saw about how this will be the game No Man's while avoiding the dearth of curated content change the fact that at least Hello Games predict with such certainty about Star Citizen's And then I saw a train. It was October of last year. Enough time had passed between any real news led me to click on 85 minutes of new gameplay set up by the developer). Far from merely flying through space to land my exposure to the game up to that point, area filled with NPCs. I saw massive, sunkissed cityscapes giving CD Projekt Red were showing in their recent There were bars, activities, shops; not mere interactable; full of intricate clockwork as organic as possible. And one of those systems? A train that connected disparate parts of time; one that, if you missed, would require I heard people cheering at this inclusion This wasn't merely about space flight or actors anymore; here I saw a full world, mundanity It showed that the developers were as concerned they wanted to create a world that would seemingly That was exciting to me. But almost all of it looked too good to be I thought Star Citizen at this stage involved of pixels that I guess they could maybe call... This seemed like an actual game and the more into that cynical daze; you know, wake me Well, according to one commenter, I wouldn't update. And that was when I knew I had to look into to find out if this was true, and more importantly With Star Citizen coverage being as infrequent the game's wild crowdfunding success inevitably along with it; one that I found to be... surprisingly A lot of users rather patiently responding I play Star Citizen now?" being quick to highlight the game's alpha technical issues on anything other than super that in mind and could justify the cost and just find something to get excited about. And at that point, despite my internal logic put aside any preconceptions I might have I was aware of the potential shortcomings; I wasn't interested in some kind of Star in seeing for myself what it's like to experience see what potential it might have for the future. And so after navigating the aforementioned descriptions that gave me a little cause for ten pounds extra in order to gain access to apparently more "in development" than of writing the mode only has a beta planned starter ship pack. I installed the launcher, sat through a good it even ran and began exploring the game's and space race modes relegated to individual I was here for one thing though--the universe explore the worlds currently available in-game or there. And after crafting as close an approximation sitting through an ungodly amount of loading, albeit at a framerate that, well, to call But that's OK, I could look past that, it to explore the station of Port Olisar; a starting Or rather, I would if I could figure out how Turns out the key to your interaction with by holding F, allowing the camera to zoom then allows you to select the open door option OK, not sure why just pressing E wouldn't now. Goddamn, that frame rate is chunky. Then I realised I had no idea how to access I ran aimlessly around different facilities And so began one of the definitive aspects and error as step-by-step I looked up solutions across. That is to say, this game's onboarding isn't Tutorial prompts occasionally appear on screen, you're on your own, with nothing but a less-than-optimal Like the game's website, it could do with From there though, with the help of the internet, you first have to retrieve your ship which with it, at which point your chosen ship will Once you've found your pad through a combination find the specific part of the door your ship select the option that ultimately starts the ladder, slowly climbing up, falling through when you're in your ship you highlight the then interact with the correct panel (all for every type of craft) and navigate the the point at which you can even begin to think that my ship was being sent back to storage. I respawned with a crime penalty for taking Eventually though I got my ship in the air, the surprisingly weighty-but-intuitive flight mode (this is a space sim after all) and before planet. After a lengthy approach impressively illustrating by the seat of my pants, I landed--I'd I got out and immediately fell through the the process over again. And scene. It was a messy set of events, but one that Namely that, despite the game's onboarding things worked, I began to realise that at tech issues, Star Citizen is actually a fair say, Elite Dangerous, where getting your ship of the space station can act as a legitimate As involved as that process I just listed always a more streamlined option. You can select open door, unfold ladder, climb and turn your engines to flight ready mode. Once I'd gotten it down the first time, attempts was now a matter of a few clicks I just wish it was all tutorialised a little my ship and getting it off the ground was Approaching a physical screen and feeling pause menu is just one more thing convincing screen. Following in-world signs gives environments less game-y, and requires just a little more It wasn't impossible, but it was inherently in something like No Man's Sky for example - the way you magnetise to your ship, take little fear of crashing or running out of redundant; like you might as well be (and from a menu. systems level, why you would want to simply But crucially, the option is there for those And you know what? Sometimes you want a little bite back from You want that tactility. This is the potential grand vision of Star course; exploration of a universe and the you want to, on whatever level of depth you straight to the point - blasting away bandits fawning over every little bit of tech available space errands; not so concerned with taking and mastery of your own universe. In this vision, Star Citizen could eventually Sky, and the intimidating intricacy of Elite discussion around accessibility options in move on the part of the developers--you end on how involved you want to get. This is your game essentially, your path, that's kind of great. As my experience went on, though, this vision and further away, until my predicament could of defining my own path; morphing into some Elite Dangerous' complexities and venturing horrific. My vision of success after tens of hours with my ship off the ground. It was literally getting an elevator to load And it wasn't all bad. But allow me to explain--it all comes back that so drew me to this adventure in the first It was the game's North Star for me. And after landing on a couple more planets, there, I figured I was ready to make the pilgrimage located. I plotted a course using the galaxy map and puzzle figuring out this particular journey, more, but this time with the increased stakes huge distance I'd need to cover. I'd spend upwards of ten-fifteen minutes the slow descent to the city, only to miss no-fly zone and be shot down. I'd do it again and realise I had to use permission. The hangar doors would open and I'd descend loaded in properly. But after all of that, I finally touched down I wandered round the impressively grimy industrial of interactivity I was expecting, but hey, And after following the signs, I finally found I was the only passenger on this weird transit for myself. It wasn't quite the vista I'd seen in on low settings, I could understand. As far as I was concerned, I had completed And I'm honestly not kidding when I say achievement. The effort I'd put in, the struggle against rewarding. Then I began to walk around the bars and shops, NPCs didn't quite know what to do, there I may have expected from the demo. In all, it didn't seem like there was a probably ready to be done with it. I turned the game off and decided to leave I'd seen what I'd come here to see. Fast forward to getting pickup footage for Olisar to begin quests anew, instead I woke the residence from the demo. Weird, I hadn't considered that this was This is neat, but I'd kind of like to leave I managed to find the elevator and after a weren't responding, I was presented with A black, endless expanse. I stepped inside to see if the textures had and ended up walking on what I can only describe the bed. The void appeared again, with no other way Then the game crashed. I tried again. I had a feeling my trip to the hangar was I had no idea what was causing it, but this the gradual process of the world falling apart Commands were becoming less responsive. Ships would rarely spawn and when they lurched pace. NPCs started to flip out more; their voice leading to a series of interactions with terrifying Doors would open telling me to get onto a Sometimes it'd spawn in as I took the leap be left on the tracks from which I could never than I was led to believe. Over the countless failed attempts to get became some kind of macabre commute; I was to wait at that damn elevator to see if I'd at every turn, "just jump on the train! It's right here! It's going to leave if you don't!" only through the same broken world time and time for how its vision of a living, breathing vibe it gave off. I'd get inches from Olisar before the game (which, might I add, can take upwards of half In such a gargantuan universe, I was beginning I wasn't choosing my own path here; I was like I was in Cyberpunk Sekiro or something. I was navigating an illusion and what's And this was when I realised, what No Man's quest design - the decay of an uncaring universe was experiencing organically through Star This world felt more hostile than anything generated infinity; I felt like the only conscious and in an age where everyone and their dead that idea that you could convey that crushing unintentional, was kind of meaningful in its Meaningful enough, at least, to warrant me to confront my Sisyphean torment for hours me a surreal peek behind the curtain at just tape. Pulling that tape apart might just lead to point in development and in a universe so Likewise, there's an unparalleled sense you have to physically navigate just to get They can be full-blown environments unto themselves; through those halls gives off a real Nostromo of missions or stories taking place within that much physical space to work with. It's also hilarious to me that the reason in trying to find my own ship, I ended up else's, only to find myself somehow glitching to the confusion of its owner. As draining as it was to spend so much time to bug out on me and reset everything to zero, cool in their own way, they were often funny who gets a lot of joy out of trying to navigate appealing to me. I'm daft, I know. Which kind of brings me to my ultimate point. I went into this piece hoping to answer a to had about Star Citizen--namely, what is And honestly, after playing for tens of hours closer to knowing that for myself. Or at least I thought I was close, and then eyes. All I can say for sure is that I had experiences other game--there's just maybe a reason For what it's worth, the game is still expanding; city planets being added and the alpha build blame you for being invested in that process, messaging and getting excited about the potential I don't think you're stupid or misinformed in almost everything Star Citizen has to offer. I also don't blame anyone for being highly will ever be realised. It is wild that this game, through crowdfunding any other video game, has been in development b-game to describe it. And let me be absolutely clear--I don't now, at least until vital technical improvements is made clear. I could justify the time and money spent to expense (as daft as it sounds to say that). I don't think mere curiosity, for what you a stable experience on anything other than serve the same justification. You know, Elite Dangerous runs really well. But I also can't deny the times at which to the atmosphere of my playthrough; I can't the scale of my surroundings, even if it was shenanigans; and ultimately I can't deny ship off the ground and landing on some faraway to directly fight against the game. These are all valuable, meaningful, memorable and broken they may have been. So I hope you enjoyed my piece on Star Citizen. I also sincerely hope that whatever side of you didn't feel personally attacked by this my intention going into this. I just wanted to provide you all with my own and I hope that came through. I'd also like to take this opportunity to making videos like this possible. Demonetisation is unfortunately becoming more names on screen and directly supporting the absolutely be helping me to continue doing Special thanks go to Mark B Writing, Rob, the Unwise, Dallas Kean, Spencer (iruleatgames) Jones, Spike Jones, TheNamlessGuy, Chris Wright, Tom Nash, Shardfire, Ana Pimentel, Jessie Mathieu Nachury, Nicolas Ross and Charlie And with that, this has been another episode Thank you so much for watching and I will