My name I am a stage for a, I guess I won't call And how I did it. But I am a warrior. I'm married. been married to my wife this year. we've been together we have a wonderful that lives on the other My wife and I live in Chippewa I've been out this way for probably almost 15 I am a full time, firefighter, critical I've been doing about 16 years, for about 13 of those Symptoms started a year or two it started with a size. consistency. some blood abdominal pain. kind of some acid that my wife and I maybe being not as at my age. my wife having IBS, was IBS. Some foods would just trigger fast forward I was working full time for departments Decided to, change over to a neighboring department and for these jobs, a physical agility test to, get off Had been working myself that that test is a to be able and at my age, I wasn't that were usually I was kind of doing a, at so I was had passed that two weeks before a couple months later, We respond we work that. My battalion chief pulled me off the line, you look wiped out. I'm going to I'm going for a little bit, and I'm like, okay, But, you know, again, I'm getting All right. Whatever. sat out, went back in with a fresh bottle on did my gig. and then this time, was there on scene take your gear off. You don't look good. Go back You're going to be doing rehab, everyone else But we don't want And I'm like, something's weird. Maybe I'm not hydrated but apparently I didn't To my chief's call, my wife said, I don't know I've got really bad abdominal pain, I'm going long story which I make all long. Stories long. I was diagnosed in the E.R., with diverticulitis they started me on they weren't sure if surgery was but then they set up to the hospitals at the night on an inter So shut me down there. my brothers and sisters came and picked me and that was great. You know, transport me as a patient, which has never and hope at that point, get dropped off at the I think we met A thoracic abdominal and and started things but he said we're not going to go We're gonna kind of keep hopefully with some some steroids, if we have to, we're going you and evaluate you. We'd really like next day, I wake up, get my vitals by the nurses, we see you're slated And I'm like, oh, okay, I guess we're that turned into a, they had found I had yeah. Perforated colon, in the sigmoid area. the last area right but that had so basically they went in a couple small washed everything out there there was in there, no infection. kind of stitched me couple of your I was in the hospital six days, I think, and sent home, to heal and hopefully get back to working on ended up a couple days and went to the local hospital again I had some drainage coming and they found I had an abscess post-op. Another infection E coli, I believe, was and there was something so now they needed some heavy hitter Went back to work. Light duty where? I work shifts, but And, about another two Antibiotics. Picc line was pulled. met with the surgeon, Let's do a follow up colonoscopy to check how the diverticulitis I want to sleep but I didn't. so I go you can see the screen the whole time, and I'm And the docs were I hate to say it. We're and all of a sudden, I heard the doctors I was I remember the screen and seeing and then he tried and I said, oh, and when you're on in first said, kind of takes away The first said, if you are experiencing pain kind of makes feel it your brain But you don't So I said, oh, I didn't feel it. And he's like, okay, And I'm like, no, And he's like, no, we can't get past this We're we're going And the tone changed. I mean, it went from we are all smiling, You probably could have in that they will me back where on the way there, one of polished stone Hope stamped pattern. I didn't think carry it wherever I go. yeah. in hindsight, And it also, it the seriousness now of we don't know exactly but something's And I'm but there's enough medical training field experience I'm reading the room. This isn't good. doctor eventually we can't diagnose They did take at that point, and, they were going to send that off what they thought He wouldn't Yes or no. but they said, hey, we're Got the results. Finally they came in. got the ding on my the notification checked it, it was, it it was most probably malignant. and didn't but I did. finally called her, now we know what Sort of. All right. It's cancer never, never thought it The day of the And we were in the procedure he said, we're going to It has to come out, so he referred me and of course, we're getting closer at this point that was November 7th. was the colonoscopy. And I think consider it my, not knowing what it was, but luckily that had performed my surgery earlier who I, I trust with my life. The guy's a rock star. just did then, and I'm like, I got this guy again. We can tackle it. met with him, about a week later. right I think it was kind of explained it was going to be more of an exploratory surgery what it was in there. And then we do I remember with my mother and my wife was there, They wheeled me in. did their IVs, said Mr. Spragg. They start I don't think I hit 99. Five hours later, I woke up with a slightly sore throat they had performed I can't remember how much colon but it did not require Thankfully, they're able and reconnect it the good news was The margins so they felt far, at least in the but the surgeon did they've sampled right next And they took out 49, 19 of which tested at that point, that's with my oncology team Christmas, I believe. met with doctor law, which was my And, what really helped was a former ER nurse So to see a familiar it went kind of said doing They had seen some, inflammation in some They weren't sure post-surgical or what. they do another c.T. to check things out but they were happy being clear and very positive. Diagnosed stage it metastasized the point of origin, went and had Christmas across the state. Came back. it was going to be, first day of chemo was going to include just to see where And the plan was to do which is Cape an oral medication which is an IV medication the artillery that was that was the one that probably caused But it's also the one that can be very, very effective so it was kind of like, whatever, I'll take if we can knock and it was Cape side of being twice a day. I think for me, based, four pills four pills and they were not and then I would do the oral. chemo for two weeks. And then at third week I would go in chemo that was also but that was a longer And they would do labs to make sure And then they wanted CT to unfortunately, the doc didn't like what He saw some more inflammation and said, handle on this. We're going to get something and, set me up within a few days, Or with All right. We'll delay the chemo. went on, for the Pet scan, start, and I'd shoot you up with some and then put you in an even fancier And what that does the spots where the cancer is to be the spots got that done. Easy peasy. Went home and I think a couple days later to try and start the get and the doc our next appointment. it had spread to lymph nodes. kind of down some lymph nodes very all the way up so I had really hate than we thought it had. which. All right, let's just keep building on the bad news for 2022, not that I'm looking but it just. It's like I felt like like, made a plan for we're getting steps again, but, I wanted to for my family. I, you know, I'm in this fight my true Yeah, this but I'm not going and it's going to be So I'm. I'm stubborn. I'm from Wisconsin. Bohemian. German. We don't. We don't go down so we started I'm not going to lie that the chemo it knocks fatigue for sure, within the first day. I believe it's the oxalic platinum For probably a week Right from right when you start You can't drink It feels like that you're swallowing. And they described it I didn't believe, Who knows what glass shards going down Right. And that's a lot of fatigue neuropathy kicked in. I never that describe it, you know, as pins and but I, I, I've never so I couldn't Yeah, My toes, my feet, we get winters I didn't like being out And I love ice fishing. you'll catch me outside on a normal day, Not a chance. I couldn't be, all the time. I pain, my eyes were always drying out, insomnia, joint pain, you name it, we had it. we added Avastin, which to the chemo routine. that caused rash to my back, But from the waist line all the way the doctor never heard of it, the only thing it to is the Avastin. That was the only thing that changed I felt like I was just a bunch of pimples Now. Painful. But there, just a little but whatever. we got through I think the initial plan months, eight cycles unfortunately, because of the, restaging, it was going to be more of a you're going to you're going for the rest you might get some time off if we get no evidence of disease but it will come back and we'll have to So we continued on I was able to work, full time back and full duty I tried and we through our swing. So it's a four day I try to time it there, so I had a couple days Post infusion and feel somewhat human Work was very We're firefighters. We don't sleep all day. but the chief if you got to rest, let us know. There's no fault. which I appreciate. And I never, never, I was try to stay with my brothers or doing whatever and that was working my cea my tumor marker when this all started whatever But the number and it was dropping we were seeing shrinkage we're like, It sucks, but it's so we stayed And then six. I think, and we noticed, my CVA was going back up but with that with we would do we were doing CT. I think we also noticed some growth again And the doc said, to we're going to stop it's not working. Yeah. Sally Platt receive so much of it it will be and he said, a couple of cycles to go back to it, So we're to an immunotherapy The side effects are much less I'm like, I'm still I mean, we're I think I quit chemo in probably around of last year, and start it up around September or here we are in 2024. almost June and I still have every now and then and my toes Nothing, But just a reminder that I was on chemo and that that probably won't get any better Hopefully With the Keytruda. Didn't have to worry And that's a half hour slowing that rate. That was a at the hospital. Now I go get labs drawn to sit and it's a half hour and boom, You know, if I go at 730 for labs, I'm home which is The side We want to do 18 more months. It's a two year plan. See what it does. and go from there. Hopefully everything No evidence I can ride Fingers crossed. Maybe for colon cancer. I don't know. but, realistically, I think it'll be, a lifetime battle, be a long life. So, with the support my work family, I couldn't but they're they're They're they're they're what gets me Scans i.t is a real thing. you know, I've dealt with panic attacks I'm going to admit, and this probably makes And my instructors will probably be like anxiety a lot of times with the patients But now that I'm position, I've. Dealt with it. Luckily, group in place, through another set of unfortunate we see a lot of things, as paramedics so I after a while, you start to realize and I had to start to my mental health to the point where the marriage isn't going to last do something about it. and there's a few I could look back that probably were so I started and had with her she's how to deal with anxiety, deal this stuff is real. And to bring it back Thankfully, already lined up but outside of that, the skin side is real. All I can how to deal with that. Is stay strong. recognize that what we're going patients. is not something most people go through. nor do they understand. so take a deep breath. Listen to what and your body And know that those feelings don't try and brush and push your way Rely on that support You have a therapist. Talk to that therapist. Most oncology teams, come with Use that. That social worker on your family, Tell your spouse you know what even when you don't sometimes gets it out as opposed to having it here when you're down. I find just spending time retreating the family, and and staying busy making sure that, some of those students the technical college as as full time are doing their thing. that hopefully in check, keeping busy. hobbies If you have any. If you don't find some. I'm a big fisherman, I you all. You could and I could not catch And I would so just just find you disconnect, the cancer stuff is for anyone that might some sort of symptoms that they're not quite Listen to your body. Go talk to your doctor. Be an advocate if you feel something's Push for tests. Push to try what's going on The answer of what's wrong with you push to find That's what those My second message patients, those warriors going through this. Keep going. you're not in it alone. There are support Beyond family, beyond friends, There are a ton groups out there social workers. Whatever. It's there. There's all kinds and no, it may feel like it's There are down in the dumps, and I find something I come up with a reason And there are a million reasons to keep going. But if you find one, Keep going.