- Nike, sb, Nike, skate Boarding. Look at these. You might own a pair. You might own five, you might own 25. And even if you don't, there's probably somebody in your life who cares way too much about sneakers. I'm a sneakerhead. Of course. I'm gonna keep all the original boxes that the sneakers came in. And even if most people who obsess over these shoes between a kick flip and a No Comply 360 flip nose manual out. This shoe obsessed population of the skateboarding division of Nike, Nike, sb. It's one of the most ubiquitous lineups of shoes the world has ever seen. And at the heart of it that pushed the boundaries brought out wild collaborations and helped sneakers become They turned them into a canvas But how did Nike, a brand to even get skaters on board skate culture, but pop culture as a whole. Welcome to speed. This to know about Nike. sb Nike was already at Giant They had just about every basketball, baseball, football, running, football, you name it. If it had a ball, Nike was into it. By 1997, half of the athletic shoes sold The swoosh was error everywhere. But in the world of as much cred as Ralph Lauren does amongst Goths, actually. Have you ever heard of a double RL Goth? Very common Skating was all about anti-establishment vibes and doing your own thing. I mean, it's a bunch of boys and girls rolling around on It's a wild concept. You ever look at skateboarding and just think like, what is that? It's gymnastics on a It's so hard and so dangerous. It's like playing guitar that you have to be like athletic to do. Nike, on the other hand, dangerous athletic guitar. They were the definition And the last thing skaters wanted was to be seen wearing anything This is the nineties. I legitimately remember When I heard that Nike was Nike thought that they could and in 1996, they made their first attempt by launching the Nike skate line. And if you want to know why it with the names of the models. Names like Snack with a K, Chimp and Chode. There was really a shoe and I'm pretty sure that Chode then as it does now. A nobody in the boardroom was like, it is not even, it doesn't It's like a Nike executive heard a bunch of skateboarders talking and it was like, oh, I Maybe we'll call it that. Should How well we could ask to teenagers. Are you kidding me? of people on the planet. They might make fun of how I look. They see your weakness and they just dive in on it mercilessly. Now let's figure out how to It is Cho Cho. A young Bam. Marra was actually Nike skate team, but the shoes were so bad he didn't even wanna wear 'em. To fulfill his contractual Nike Swoosh off of the Chos and then glue them onto his own shoes that he could actually skate in. That's how far off the mark Nike was. Instead of embracing Nike that they trusted Vans, DVS, and Osirus. These brands were skate first and born from the same culture. Nike was seen as a poser but Nike didn't give up that easily. In 2001, they tried again by buying out a small called Savior. Now, the idea was simple. If skaters don't wanna wear Nikes, maybe they'd wear less corporate brand. One that just so happened Much like Anheuser-Busch owns all of these small craft beer companies. Now. Savior would have access to Nike's cutting edge technology, giving them a leg up in And they brought in a including Stefan Janoski, John Ratray and Tim O'Connor. Savior had a laid back irreverent attitude that theoretically resonated with skaters. They put out shoes with features into the laces and ran marketing campaigns that leaned into the But despite doing a lot of things right, savior never really caught on. Their shoes weren't selling. And by 2004, Nike pulled the plug. Still Savior was an Nike learned from the about respecting the culture, and about the importance of And that brings us to the Nike SB cracks the code. After two failed attempts, Nike was ready to give it one more shot, and in 2002, they made the They put Sandy Bodecker in SB Bodecker was a Nike veteran who joined the company in and rose the ranks to help European soccer. IE football. If you're a soccer player like of, but you also know just how massive Nike is in that sport. But skateboarding, this beast entirely. Bodecker knew that Nike couldn't world and expect skaters to accept them. There was too much skepticism, too much bad blood from So instead of throwing Bodecker did something simple, of us should do. He listened. He talked to skaters to who actually lived and - He became a skate fan first I think he probably read which is awesome though, right? Because like, hey, if of skateboarding and want to be welcomed, like you're gonna have to really know the deaths of it, right? Not just, you know, how - There's no magic bullet here. Just honest conversations and what Nike could bring to the table. - It looked like he approached we can't get in there unless we do something for skateboarding, because the previous things to take from skateboarding. - The big breakthrough was already had that skateboarders already loved talking about the dumb. It was originally designed but skaters in the eighties because of the durability So instead of creating an and his team took the dunk They beefed up the added more and used Nike Zoom air technology for better cushioning when Oling and such the result, the SB dunk. Nike wasn't just throwing they were bringing a beloved with real updates that made it better for actual skating. And Nike didn't stop at just making the dunks skate friendly. They built a team of skaters that gave the brand credibility First four riders, Danny Sopa, and Reese Forbes each got All these shoes weren't just They were personal. They were expressions of and the culture that they represented by tying the product Nike gave SB authenticity something the previous attempts had seriously lacked. I mean, being connected to a guy is much more meaningful on your shoe. I don't even get that one. Like what? Thank God for Sandy Bodecker. Dude. He is like walks in and he I don't know, man. We've tried everything. We named that after a wide wiener, and then we try to give 'em and I don't know what they want you. Whoa. Or if we use this shoe and just like Ma, let scape like four guys choose the colors. Yeah, I guess that would be a good idea. Should we put a lighter in one of 'em? No, I don't think we need What if we made all the I don't know what these Every shoe gets a free haircut. What is skateboarding? If it's surfing for the street, shouldn't they even do it barefoot? What if we make this Can we please just try This video is sponsored by factor. A lot of you guys out there why I am looking so good and fit and handsome. Gigi, thank you. Thank you. I walk a ton now. 10,000 steps a day minimum, but I've also been eating healthier. Healthy food often takes a bit more work, but a cheat code for that is a service like factor, which delivers fresh, to your doorstep, whether maximizing your protein intake, both of which you should be doing Balanced factor has that will help you meet A dietician is a professional food person. Choose from six different meal calorie smart and vegan slash veggie, and round out your orders snacks, and energy shots to This is a nutrient rich and it's got caffeine in it. It's a cold brew latte smoothie. Drink this right when you I do. I know a lot of you You got to. I know that you've got a lot going on outside of the kitchen. I can relate. I am also a speed man. Keep your life going and turn to factor. They deliver fresh, nutritious, to eat in just two minutes. Head to factor 70 five.com and use code speed 50 to get and 20% off your next month of orders. That's code speed with three E's fifty@factorseventyfive.com to get 50% off your first month of orders. I know that a lot of you mons And then came one of the most early success. The launch now, rather its big old corporate show. Nike SB went for a more low key approach. They pulled up to the first a crucial trade show for the industry. And I'm realizing it is this channel a lot. Well, they pulled up with with just one shoe, the Nike SB dunk, and it worked. They ended up winning the award for Grand Lake, Nike was unheard of. And honestly, if you think I mean that like a show like that could really change Nike comes in, is like, actually we are competing We just brought one shoe. We even though Nike probably at that trade show, they for small skate businesses rather than bigger retailers to reach skaters while that were beginning to be neglected by the other current major Today, having a Nike SB to a local store and may even - He knew that dunk and he was gonna offer this so the shop would benefit and buying it, and it would - As Nike SB started to gain momentum, the team expanded bringing in the skate world like Eric and my buddy Stefan, Steve Stevens. Ian Janoski. Each skater brought their own style and credibility to the brand. But perhaps the biggest coup for Nike SB came in 2004 when to leave s and join the Nike SB family. That same year, PO won his instantly cementing himself as one of the top names in skateboarding and giving Nike SB a And then in 2005, just one year after joining Nike, SB POD ever to get his own His line grew to include 10 models. By 2017, putting him in an exclusive club that included only the This moment wasn't just about sneakers, it was about showing the skate to the sport at the same to their top athletes and beyond. They were - Treated like any other athlete in Nike. Now, first class flights, It was like royalty, like the way we were I felt like Andre Agassi. - Now, while the SB dunk was there were other shoes Take Janoskis signature model. Unlike the tech heavy shoes that dominated skateboarding minimalistic influenced by It wasn't about the bells and whistles, it was about These shoes were popular. Everyone had these, whether My grandma had a pair. - It was really part of that thing bigger than maybe what people saw on - I work out in, I get married in 'em, go to funerals in 'em, go to skating. I don't, that's how good mine are. I don't even have any other shoes. Now for actual skaters, there that the janoski is even bigger and more important than the dunk. Go to any local skate and you're all but guaranteed to see at least one pair. Because skaters can be, to embrace new technology. And the Janoski has been the go-to now for 15 years. Outside of skateboarding, there's something I Okay? Sneakers did not Before Nike sv, there were and air forces in the early Japan, which had wild colorways, but were exclusive to Japan car guys. But Nike SB took things They were early standout dunks SB dunk in 2002. Then in 2003, Nike SB dropped the infamous a colorway very similar to the colors and logo of a certain brand of beer. They pulled 'em straight off and desist, but that made and more coveted. But perhaps the most infamous In 2005, designed by Jeff Staple, the drop caused riots in New York City. This wasn't just another sneaker release, it was a full blown cultural pushing the boundaries with drops like the before the release, after again, legal threats that survived some of the rarest and most valuable sneakers And speaking of valuable, the Paris SB dunk featuring by Bernard Buffet became after shoes ever. And later skaters like my friend Asad Ware and cultural icons, like also had their own special SB shoes. Nike SB didn't just change the way that skaters looked at sneakers. It redefined what a sneaker could be. Each limited drop felt like a And the scarcity of these and hype There was. These are one of the biggest that the word hype is used so much. Nike SB was no longer just for skaters. It was for anyone who who appreciated culture, anyone who appreciated storytelling, all wrapped up into a pair of sneakers. And those are all things - It. This is, this is, this is a grailed among grails. This is a beautiful shoe. - Paris es, oh my God, that's my size. Paris Espb is one of I got the grateful dance But just as fast as the hype By the early 2010s. Dunks were sitting on shelves and skate shops that once thrived fewer and fewer customers. It looked like the SB but in the late 2010s, something happened. The SB dunk found a second life. This time through street wear influencers and social media, high profile and Virgil Ablo began wearing SB dunks. Again, reigniting interest in the shoot. Travis Scott even launched and suddenly the SB dunk As with many things that of SB dunk sparked mixed reactions. Some welcomed the comeback as over commercialization. A reminder of how mainstream what once felt authentic. Now this tension reveals a larger truth. When something underground it's inevitable that it changes. It's the cost of exposure and growth for better and for worse. And perhaps this is one of the reasons for the dunks most It no longer serves the so well at the beginning. We've seen it happen across all kinds of different subcultures. Think of li like punk rock, which began as an anti-establishment movement only to become a fashion trend sold in malls or graffiti once literally Now a fixture on the walls of every tech startup's open as niche and sometimes even rebellious, often gets co-opted by the mainstream, influencing broader of its original edge. And that's the paradox of influence. For a subculture to change And in that process, it risks The question is, how much can be given to the masses without Can a culture retain its soul while gaining wider recognition? Now, in the case of Nike sb, or appropriate a culture. I mean, they did both of those things, but they helped shape how niche cultures intersect While Nike's impact on skateboarding came with mixed feelings, it and gave it a stage that I mean, it's in the Olympics. So while trends will come and go, the SB dunks but its legacy reminds us that to change and shape the world. And in a world where things and we move faster and and towards a monoculture, Where will cool stuff bake if to a few people and quickly I guess only time will tell. I guess. Eventually we'll just be eating dust and watching the gray channel. Yo, thanks for watching this video and supporting the channel. We're really early on, but We're figuring out how to do this. So we're like every other week right now. Thank you for being here. and our new audience. A lot of you guys haven't even other than Stussy and now Nike SB. So welcome aboard. More to come. Sometimes we might talk about cars. Follow me on Instagram at James bumphrey. Follow speed@speed.co Alright dudes, I love