- The following is a He was the CEO of Google for 10 years and a chairman for six more, guiding the company through and a series of He is one of the most impactful leaders in the era of the internet and the powerful voice for in our society. It was truly an honor to speak with him as part of the MIT course on and the Artificial Intelligence podcast. And now, here's my What was the first moment when you fell in love with technology? - I grew up in 1960's as a boy where every boy wanted to be an astronaut and part of the space program. So like everyone else of my age, we would go out to the cow which was literally a cow pasture, and we would shoot model rockets off, and that I think is the beginning. And of course generationally today, it would be video games and that you can do online with computers. - [Lex] There's a of science and math that maybe rockets would instill in individuals. You mentioned yesterday is where the journey through diverges for many people. It's this fork in the roadway. There's a professor of math I'm not sure if you're familiar with him. - I am. - [Lex] He has written this amazing book I recommend to everybody Two of my favorite words. (laughs) He says that if painting then students would be It's just his analogy of So you never get a chance to discover the beauty of the art of painting or the beauty of the art of math. So how, when, and where did - I think what happens is that you're math-enabled pretty early, and all of the sudden you discover that you can use that to The great scientists The men and women who are fantastic today, it's somewhere when they were they discovered that they could discover something themselves. And that sense of building something, of having an impact that you own drives knowledge acquisition and learning. In my case, it was programming and the notion that I could build things that had not existed, that I had built that had my name of it. And this was before open-source, but you could think of it as So today if I were a 16 I'm sure that I would aspire to make a contribution of the world today. That would be what would be driving me, and I would be trying and learning, and making mistakes and so The repository that GitHub represents and that open-source libraries represent is an enormous bank of knowledge of all of the people who are doing that. And one of the lessons was that the world is a very big place, and there's an awful lot of smart people. And an awful lot of So here's an opportunity, for example, building parts or programs, to contribute to the greater of society. - [Lex] So in that moment in the 70's, the inspiring moment and then you cerated that magical moment. So in 1975, I think, you which I especially like So thank you, thank you that established a reputation and has a big impact on the So thank you for that. But more seriously, in that time, in the 70's as an engineer personal computers were being born. Did you think you would be able to predict the 80's, 90's and the noughts - I'm sure I could not and I was the beneficiary of the great work of many many people who With Lex, I worked with a who was my supervisor, and he essentially helped me architect and deliver a system After that, I worked at Xerox where the Alto was invented, and the Alto is the predecessor of the modern personal computer, And the Altos were very rare, and I had to drive an hour but I made a point of skipping classes and doing whatever it took to have access to this I knew that they were consequential. What I did not understand was scaling. I did not understand what would happen when you had 100 million And so since then, and I have I always look for things which are going to scale to platforms, so mobile phones, Android, The world is a numerous, there are many many people in the world. People really have needs. They really will use these platforms, and you can build big - [Lex] So it's interesting, so when you see a piece of technology, now you think what will when it's in the hands - That's right. So an example would be that the that if you can't figure out a way for something to have a million it probably is not going to be successful because something else will and your idea will become a lost idea or a specialized service So it's a path to generality. It's a path to general platform use. It's a path to broad applicability. Now there are plenty of good so luxury goods for example, but if you want to have you have to look for things common pricing, common distribution, and solve common problems. They're problems that everyone has. And by the way, people Information, medicine, health, work on those problems. - [Lex] Like you said, you're a big fan of the middle class-- - 'Cause there's so many of them. - [Lex] There's so many of them. - By definition. - [Lex] So any product, any and improves their lives is and it's just good for society. - And there's nothing in the high-end as long as you have a plan to get to the middle class. There's nothing wrong with starting with a specialized market in order to learn and to build and to fund things. So you start luxury market to build a general purpose market. But if you define yourself someone else can come along that can push you to the corner, can restrict the scale of operation, can force you to be a lesser So it's very important to think in terms of broad businesses and broad impact, even if you start in a - [Lex] So as you look to the 70's but also in the decades to did you see them as tools, or was there a little I remember a quote saying AI began with our dream to create the gods. Is there a feeling when that you were creating another entity, giving life to something? - I wish I could say otherwise, but I simply found the That's what I was focused on. I think the majority of the and there are a few exceptions, really saw this a great I think relatively few of the the scale of its impact. So I used MCP which is It just made sense to connect things. We didn't think of it and then companies and then Facebook and then Twitter and then We never did that build. We didn't have that vision. And I think most people, it's a rare person who can Most people can see, if you ask people to predict the future, they'll give you an answer of six to nine months or 12 months because that's about as But there's an old saying, which actually was attributed to a professor at MIT a long time ago, that we overestimate what We underestimate was And there's a great deal of evidence that these core platforms of hardware and software take a decade. So think about self-driving cars. Self-driving cars were There were projects around them. The first DARPA Grand So that's roughly 15 years ago. And today we have at a city in Arizona, so 15 years. And we still have a ways to go before they're more generally available. - [Lex] So you've spoken you just talked about You've spoken about the importance of thinking five years ahead and having a plan for those five years. - The way to say it is that almost everybody has a one-year plan. Almost no one has a proper five-year plan. And the key thing to have is having a model for under the underlying platforms. So here's an example. Moore's law as we know it, the thing that powered improvement in CPUs has largely halted in its traditional shrinking mechanisms because the costs have just gotten so high and it's getting harder and harder. But there's plenty of and specialized hardware improvements. So you need to understand the and where they'll go how it will change the platform. In the area of network conductivity, what are the gains that are It looks like there's of wireless conductivity and that we will primarily, historical I've always thought that we were primarily but now it looks like fiber plus very powerful high bandwidth sort of short distance conductivity That's an amazing achievement. If you know that, then you're going to build By the way, those networks have because they're more symmetric. The algorithms feel - [Lex] And so when you think about, whether it's fiber or just so there's this Barbara that I really like. It's from the champions of the impossible, rather than the slaves of the possible, that evolution draws its creative force. So in predicting the next five years, I'd like to talk about the - Well, and again, one of the is that we produce dreamers. We literally have people who They are, if you will, that they disagree with the, they disagree with what They say there is another way. They have a belief. They have a vision. If you look at science, science is always marked by such people who went against some conventional wisdom, collected the knowledge at the time, and assembled it in a way that - [Lex] And you've been in an inspiring way, about things you've been and you've obviously been But in this kind of tension, how do you balance as a company predicting the next five years listening to those crazy dreamers, letting them run away and make it happen, and you know that's how and slowing things down and saying well this is the rational, this is the possible, the pragmatic, the dreamer - So it's helpful to have a model which encourages a as well as the ability to do new things. So in Google's case, we're big enough and well that we have a pretty good sense for the next year or two, And so we have enough cash generation that we can make bets. And indeed, Google has become Alphabet, so the corporation is And these bets are in areas of fundamental importance to the world, whether it's artificial intelligence, medical technology, self-driving cars, conductivity through And there's more coming and more coming. So one way you could express this is that the current business that we have the luxury of making bets. And another one that you could say is that we have the wisdom that a corporate structure to enhance the likelihood of So we essentially turned of bets and then this which is itself innovative. So in order to pull this off, you have to have a and one of them is that you have to have bottoms up and tops down. The bottoms up we call 20% time, and the idea is that people on whatever they want. And the top down is that have a keen eye on technology, and they're reviewing things constantly. So an example would be or I'll hear about something Let's go visit them, and then let's begin to see if that's possible. And if you do this long enough, you get pretty good at - [Lex] So that's a beautiful Is this something that - Seems to be. Sergey, again 15 years ago, came up with a concept should be on things that are unrelated. It was called 70/20/10. 70% of our time on core business, 20% on adjacent business, And he proved mathematically, of course he's a brilliant mathematician, that you needed that 10% to And it turns out that he was right. - [Lex] So getting into the world of artificial intelligence, you've talked quite to the impact in the near term, the positive impact of especially machine learning in medical applications and education and just making information In the AI community, There's this shroud of uncertainty as we face this new world And there is some people like at least in the degree of emphasis he places on the existential threat of AI. So I've spoken with Stuart who share Elon Musk's view, and Yoshua Bengio, And so there's a lot of very smart people who are thinking about this stuff, disagreeing, which is So what do you think is the healthiest way for the AI community to, and really for the general and the concern of the technology being mismanaged in some kind of way. - So the source of education has been robot killer movies And the one thing I can are those kinds of solutions. Furthermore, if they were to show up, someone would notice and unplug them. So as exciting as those movies are, and they're great movies, were the killer robots to start, we would find a way to stop them, so I'm not concerned about that. And much of this has to do with the timeframe of conversation. So you can imagine a when the human brain is fully understood in the next generation and next generation of have figured all this out, we're gonna have a large around science and thinking and robots and computers and so forth and so on. So it depends on the In the next five to 10 years, we're not facing those questions. What we're facing in the is how do we spread this as broadly as possible to gain The primary benefit should be in healthcare and in education. Healthcare because it's obvious. We're all the same even though As a medical matter, the fact that we have will save lives, allow us to deal with skin ophthalmological problems. There's people working and so forth using these techniques. I can go on and on. The promise of AI in There are many many companies and solutions and we will all The same argument in education. Can you imagine that for each generation of child and even adult It's AI based that's not a human but is properly trained helps you address your or your math difficulties Why don't we focus on those two? The gain societally of and healthier are enormous. And those translate for and we'll all benefit from them. There are people who are which is the issue that you're describing, and there are conversations that should there be such problems what should the rules be like? Google, for example, has with respect to AI safety, and I think most everybody would support. And they make sense. So it helps guide the research. But the killer robots are and they're not even being built. - [Lex] And on that line of thinking, you said the timescale. In this topic or other topics on the business side or to think beyond five to 10 years, to think 50 years out? Has it ever been useful or productive-- - In our industry there of 50 year predictions Let's review AI. AI, which was partially and a couple of other the original claims were a decade or two. And when I was a PhD and it entered during my looking at it a period which is known as AI winter which went on for about 30 years, which is a whole generation and a whole group of people who didn't make a lot of progress because the algorithms had not improved and the computers had not improved. It took some brilliant mathematicians starting with a fellow names Geoff Hinton at Toronto and Montreal who basically invented which empowers us today. The seminal work there was 20 years ago, and in the last 10 years So think about the timeframes It's very hard to predict. Many people think that in the equivalent of flying cars. Who knows? My own view, if I want is to say we know a couple of things about 50 years from now. We know that they'll be more people alive. We know that we'll have to have platforms that are more sustainable because the earth is limited and that the kind of platforms will be consistent with the They will be much more They'll be much more 'cause they have to be. They just have to be. I also think that humans are going to be a great deal smarter, and I think they're gonna be a lot smarter because of the tools that and of course people will live longer. Life extension is continuing at a pace, a baby born today has a reasonable which is pretty exciting. It's well past the 21st century, so we better take care of them. - [Lex] And you've mentioned on some very large percentage, 60%, 70% of people may live in cities. - Today more than half and one of the great stories of humanity in the last 20 years has been This has occurred in the United States. It's occurred in Europe. It's occurring in Asia, and When people move to cities, but believe it or not Their productivity gets better. Their IQ and educational So it's good news that but we have to make them livable and safe. - [Lex] So first of all, you some of the greatest leaders What insights do you draw from the difference in Steve Jobs, Elon Musk, Larry Page, now the new CEO, Sundar Pichai and others, from the I would say calm - One of the things that I is that there's no single They try to teach one, but There are people who just and they need to do it quickly. Those people are often entrepreneurs. They just know, and they move fast. There are other people who are systems thinkers and planners. That's more who I am, more thorough in execution, a little bit more risk-adverse. There's also people who in the sense that they are and they feel it and they There's no single formula to success. There is one thing that unifies all of the people that you named, which is very high intelligence. At the end of the day, the all of them is that they saw They processed information faster. They didn't necessarily make the right decisions all the time, but they were on top of it. And the other thing that's interesting about all of those people is that they all started young. So think about Steve Jobs starting Apple roughly at 18 or 19. Think about Bill Gates Think about by the time they were 30, Mark Zuckerburg a good by the time they were at 30 years old they had of dealing with people and products and shipments and the press It's incredible how compared to the rest of us - [Lex] Yes, exactly. - So we should celebrate these people because they've just and that helps them form the judgment. At the end of the day, when you're at the top all of the easy questions How should we design the buildings? Where should we put the What should the box look like? That's why it's so interesting The problems that they face in terms of the way they operate, the way they deal with their their innovation are Each of the companies is They are not, in fact, cut of the same. They behave differently based on input. Their internal cultures are different. Their compensation schemes are different. Their values are different. So there's proof that diversity works. - [Lex] So when faced in need of advice, it's been said that the is to find the best person in the world who can give that advice and find a way to be in a room So here we are. And let me ask in a long-winded way. I wrote this down. In 1998, there were many Lycos, Excite, AltaVista, InfoSeek, Ask Jeeves maybe, Yahoo even. So Google stepped in and They disrupted the nature of search, the nature of our access to information, the way we discover new knowledge. So now it's 2018, actually 20 years later. There are many good including, of course, So you've spoken in medical and education the impact of such an AI So we arrive at this question. So it's a personal one for me, but I hope my situation as we said dreamers and So my whole live I've dreamed of creating such an AI assistant. Every step I've taken has Now I'm a research scientist in human-centered AI here at MIT. So the next step for me as is to do what Larry and Sergey did in '98, the simple start-up. And so here's my simple question. Given the low odds of success, the countless other factors that can't be controlled or predicted, which is all the things is there some calculation, some strategy to follow in the step? Or do you simply follow the passion just because there's no other choice? - I think the people are always trying to study the extraordinarily chaotic nature of innovation and entrepreneurship. My answer is that they didn't They just did it. They sensed a moment when there was all of this data and they had a better algorithm. They had invented a better way. So today, with human-centered AI, which is your area of research, there must be new approaches. It's such a big field. There must be new approaches different from what we and others are doing. There must be start-ups to fund. There must be research projects to try. There must be graduate students Here at MIT, there are people from the standpoint of How do children learn starting at age one and two-- - And the work is fantastic. Those approached are different from the approach that Perhaps that's a bet that you should make, or perhaps there's another one. But at the end of the day, the successful entrepreneurs They see an opportunity Let's use Uber as an example. As Travis tells the story, he and his co-founder and they had this idea 'cause And they said we have smartphones, So what's the equivalent of that Travis Eiffel that you could as an whether it's in human-centered That's the next great start-up. - [Lex] And the psychology of that moment. So when Sergey and Larry talk about, in listening to a few interviews, it's very nonchalant. Well here's a very fascinating web data, and here's an algorithm we have. We just kind of want to and it seems like that's a really nice way to organize this data. - Well I should say is that they were graduate and they thought this was interesting. So they build a search engine and they kept it in their room. And they had to get power 'cause they were using too so they ran an extension cord over and then they went and they found a house and they had Google world headquarters of five people to start the company. And they raised $100,000 who is the Sun founder to do this and Dave Cheriton and a few others. The point is their but they were based on a powerful insight. That is a replicable It has to be a powerful insight, the beginnings are simple, and there has to be an innovation. In Larry and Sergey's which was a brilliant idea, one of the most sited What's the next one? - [Lex] So you're one of, if I may say, richest people in the world, and yet it seems that money of your passions and not an inherent goal. But you're a fascinating person to ask. So much of our society and at the company level and as nations is driven by the desire for wealth. What do you think about this drive, and what have you learned about, if I may romanticize the notion, the meaning of life on so many dimensions? - There have been many and above some threshold, which is typically relatively there's no difference in The happiness is correlated a sense of family, a sense of impact. So if you organize your life, assuming you have enough to get around and have a nice home and so forth, you'll be far happier if you figure out what you care about and work on that. It's often being in service to others. There's a great deal of evidence when they're serving This goes directly against the sort of press-induced excitement about powerful and wealthy and indeed these are consequential people. But if you are in a situation where you've been very you also have to take and you have to basically and give them that opportunity but also use that wealth In my case, I'm particularly interested in using the tools of and machine learning I've mentioned education. I've mentioned inequality in middle class and things like this, all of It doesn't matter what you do. It matters that you believe in it, that it's important to you, and your life can be far more satisfying if you spend your life doing that. - [Lex] I think there's than a discussion of the meaning of life. - Eric, thank you so much.