This is a Raspberry piece of hardware, With it, you can very easily create a very powerful In fact, I plan to use this particular retro gaming machine capable But what if I told you that when you pick you don't really get its true potential? you can dramatically increase if you're willing to put in We're going to see what it takes to squeeze every last little bit of juice So what is the secret sauce? Well, we're going to be water cooling it, the temperatures, the harder we can push the hardware The first problem I have to overcome cooling kit for the Raspberry Pi five, to have to make my own. The first half is this pump, reservoir And it's actually meant to cool a 3D is going to be this generic copper of all the Raspberry Pi's heat generating This should keep everything nice and cool, because water is much more effective But This copper water block has no way In order for optimal heat transfer, contact as possible. And yeah, So I need to create a custom mount for it. In order to do that, I created a 3D model It's not super accurate, but it's got all From there, I created a four legged mount So with all that figured out, Thankfully, because it was so small, And I also made this little temporary with brass standoffs. By carefully tightening down each screw directly on top of the Raspberry Pi CPU, looks pretty good for a first draft. But I didn't think about one thing. Oh, crap. This is PLA plastic, printing, you know that As PLA heats up, it deforms and it loses So that means as we're gaming is going to make worse and worse contact So in order to fix that, in a completely different material. This is carbon fiber reinforced nylon. And it can withstand temperatures before it starts to deform, scenario, should give us over It's also significantly more expensive. So it's actually probably a good thing I did the early prototyping There we go. That eliminates any concerns So next, we need to take a look at the CPU. Many people think that it's actually just a thin layer of metal The actual CPU is, under here somewhere. this metal is called And the problem with it is that it adds a layer So I decided to remove it. I grabbed my trusty soldering station Set it to a nice low temperature and began loosening the thermal adhesive As always, I'll include a link to it, along with all the other tools that I'll use throughout this project down Once I got things nice and hot, I used The CPU die that sits below nice and slow. One small slip of the blade and you can Eventually, though, it popped right off. Oh, there we go. And now we can see That right there, that is very low quality So with a little bit of rubbing alcohol and some scrubbing, Now a lot of people will replace this adhesive And then just reinstall the IHS. But I think I'd rather get rid of it If I can find a way to get this block That will give us maximum But looking at it are inlet pipe is hitting and also our Ram chip So it became clear to me that I was going These are one millimeter and by trimming them ever so slightly, four of them side by side over This will shift our CPU give us clearance over that button But obviously we can't because there's no way So I set up to do a little bit of brazing. I started by painting on some flux. Not only does this stuff clear away to join our pieces together with solder, that solder into any small voids give us one solid block of copper But looking at it, it didn't look great. And you can see that it was visibly. Well, not very flat. but that's okay. I was prepared for that. I set up a series of progressively finer I started at 400 grit and slowly sand down I could have stopped there, I was able to get a smoother and smoother And the smoother the block, the better I didn't quite get it to a mirror finish, but it's definitely better than the factory So with all that done, I headed back so I've got everything laid out that I need to test the system, but I'm realizing both the pump And then if you look down here, that supplies that which is fed by this but, I don't have one of those, So I'm actually just going to convert which is the same as the Raspberry Pi itself. Now, that might sound but it's actually easier than you Delivery trigger board and setting these Dip switches, 12V of power from a standard power like this one that I got from UGREEN A quick check everything was working correctly, the wiring harness from the buck converter This whole process and should make the whole setup but I still wasn't sure that my adapter the fan and the pump at the same time, Not the quietest fan in the world. If I'm being honest. Good airflow. Definitely Just a second. Yep. There we go. Sweet. With the power delivery sorted, filling the system with distilled water, And we'll be replacing it later. One thing you want to watch out for your system. It's pretty easy for air bubbles inside the radiator. So as I'm adding water and agitating the whole system Once I felt like I got them all, I let the system run All right. Our setup has been running There are no leaks. It is still a little bit loud, being some small air bubbles and loops, But for now I think we should get started where I have some pretty cool stuff The first thing I did was take plug it into my computer This is a pretty basic and stripped down version of Linux I then transferred it I then transferred it to the Pi, ran and got dropped into this pretty barebones From here, I installed Geekbench six software running Geekbench. We can see that pretty quickly. The Raspberry Pi heats up to the mid 80s, and using the thermal camera, yeah, the top of the die is a bit cooler, So now let's see how it does I used a little dot of Noctua And then for the Ram chip to eliminate that I mentioned earlier, This stuff is similar to thermal paste, but designed to work at a much greater With it, So with that done, I reinstalled the block to check out how much better And even I was shocked at the difference. Whoa! That's a lot. Oh **** Needless to say, I was very block had dropped the CPU temperature which should give us a ton of headroom I started with small incremental The way you do this is by editing a little config file I went from 2.4GHz to 2.6GHz to 2.8GHz. And I also slowly increased keep it stable. I pushed it to a nice round 3Ghz, and even that only managed to raise the CPU's temperature but that is where I hit the wall. Just not in the way that you might think. I still had a ton of thermal headroom, but Turns out the firmware on the Raspberry at just 3Ghz So I went in search of a solution, by forcing the Raspberry Pi to update I should be able to remove that cap. Okay, let's see if this is 3.1GHz. I'm going to be very happy Uhhhhhhhh, Yes, 3.1GHz. Okay. We're through the barrier. Now we can see how far above Unfortunately, further testing revealed was just about the limit I was able to squeeze a tiny bit more out but anything more than that and the system Given how lower temperatures are, And annoyingly, the firmware caps Hey, everybody. It's, future Zac here. So I was basically done Geerling released a video showing with some very clever scripting, limit to 1.1V, So, not wanting to leave any stone I went back and followed his instructions Pi here any further, and yeah, Even with the increased voltage, And I think what that comes down to is just the good old fashioned some chips are just better than others. Obviously But if you consider where we started from, I still think so now that we've found the next thing that I want to do the next thing I want to do But before we do that, I think we should create an enclosure more cohesive and more like an actual game And to be honest, I had a lot of different parts and I wanted this thing So the first thing I did was measure This might seem but it allowed me to try out a number of different orientations I eventually settled on this one footprint and with the right case to all the components in case I need Now, before we get into the designing I want to tell you guys about something that I found hugely helpful the Eufy S1 Pro, because you've The S1 Pro is the world's The 3D printing process lift a bunch of But thankfully I had the S1 every night once I was done filming. In fact, it cleans my entire house. And you might be thinking that So how is the S1 Pro Well, most mopping robot vacuums use But eufy's designers realized that those systems often So instead, the S1 produces with every revolution, ensuring top notch It also has a square body design mopping ruler, and the best possible edge And creating a square They had to completely rewrite all the pathfinding algorithms But what it all adds up to is a robot vacuum that actually washes You can see I set up this test area and the S1 Pro completely clean the floor It's also got this really cool looking base station that pulls dust after every cleaning cycle, And then water that it creates in this tank and then probably Pro is its 3D Matrix Eye The S1 Pro will map and navigate but it also has another AI powered system and conventional imaging to avoid accidentally sucking up So if you want more information about the check out the link And now let's get back to designing The first thing I did was design a super simple prototype Basically, is make sure that all my models So I'm testing to make sure my screw holes Sure enough, that I had to change, and I figured, well, I may as well solve Looking at the motherboard, you can see But I want all of my wires So I added these short extensions I modified my case design for them along with the trigger board. and then did a quick test fit. So there we go We have all of the hard work done, and now we can get on to, well, Like I said earlier, servicability was important to me, My first attempts were split that that was just way too complicated So instead, I opted for two interlocking The next problem I had to tackle Sure, I had the front intake, but So I added all these little exhaust I also wanted all the internals so I added cutouts and then just to give it I embossed the Raspberry Finally, I reworked the entire front face and more functional. But rather than showing you I'd rather just show you how I made it. So all my 3D printers worked on I hit up the shop to get started on that. the first thing I did and prep it for the C and C, I added some double sided tape to prevent initial shape here is pretty simple. It's just a big round opening To add some dimension to it, and used a chamfer bit to add a slight in theory, this might also make the fan but I've got something A quick oil rub finish sealed the wood Gave it a much nicer finish as well. And while the CNC was still warmed up, I also cut the two acrylic As always, make sure that you get cast for use on the CNC. It cuts so much nicer and won't cracker the next thing I did should hopefully If you've ever opened up you know that these things are basically So in order to prevent that, to use to filter the front intake. It's thin enough and then flex it along those lines at first I temporarily tacked it in place And then once our case is done printing, But first, The fan on this system For reference, it's generating about 46dB of sound So to solve that, I went out and bought which was actually so quiet that it failed It probably doesn't move but given our completely overkill I really don't think Unfortunately, both fans, despite having the same operating voltage, So I had to do the old switcheroo, of splicing the old connector and then sealing everything with some heat and then finally, after all of that, I didn't want to use the standard PLA, so This stuff should be much more heat carbon fiber in it, it's But I'm sure you're asking yourself, that's also in there? Well, that is support interface, and it's plastic that sits between the support This stuff makes it weighs or to remove your supports and gives you a much nicer surface texture After I had all that pulled off, I installed my acrylic windows with the help of some CAA glue in place, which permanently sandwiched I then started installing which was truthfully a bit of a make there were dozens of variables here, and I still wasn't 100% sure To my surprise, though, everything And honestly, I think that's each of my individual parts it was definitely a bit more up from work, but in the end, the last step was filling the loop. And here I'm hoping to gain back that was lost with our quieter fan. This is a specially designed coolant, from my water cooled desk project. Not only does it have a bunch of additives in it But it also has an additive in it at transferring heat. So after burping the system to work out a little micro air bubbles so before we install the other half of the case, I'm going to pop the SD We're going to format it and instead we're going to install for gaming, Batocera *struggling to pronounce Batocera* I don't know how you say it, but apparently And here's the cool thing Instead of using a traditional desktop it's got a stripped down, lightweight launcher which makes it a lot Once you boot it where you can see all the It also makes it really easy because Batocera just appears So all I have to do is drag and drop folder on my desktop, to mention that obviously it's illegal I'm definitely not endorsing piracy here. So everything from the original Atari runs flawlessly here, and I don't think These games probably where I'll spend most of my time, where the previous Raspberry the Sega Dreamcast, Well, here things are looking really good. The Raspberry Pi five emulates And honestly, you don't need to go to all the effort your Pi to get these systems to play, But that doesn't mean because one of the best parts is that you can actually make them We can do all sorts of fun stuff, here. I was able to render its original resolution, You can also add smoothing, and all sorts of different stuff. And the only limitation here is how much some games are easier to run than others, So you often have to dial in your specific basis, which, if you're a geek But the point is, our crazy overclock even further while still getting So an overclocked overclocked one, Which I guess kind as to why an overclock is so important. The systems that came out mentioned, the first two, which I'll talk Yeah. That's right. It's possible to emulate both Kinda. it really comes down to which games Some games are great and run but others require more graphics Like in The Legend of Zelda The grass here kind of kills my FPS. That being said, because this Raspberry Pi It's the one you want to be using that are right on the edge That overclock might be the difference actually being playable or not. And then, speaking of being right The PlayStation two. Oh, man. Okay. This was an ordeal. So earlier versions of Batocera but at a certain point the devs removed it Pi couldn't handle it. So as configured, this system right now However, I thought that maybe just maybe, my turbocharged system So I went in search of a solution, this emulator called AetherSX2 So I went back into Raspberry Pi OS, So I did some more research best in ubuntu, which is a very popular The problem is the latest release and wouldn't load on my Raspberry Pi. Even more research to fix that bug by editing a config file I eventually got Ubuntu running, Did a bunch of terminal commands, And finally, finally I got my PS2 And what did I find? Well, I found a new appreciation OS because Linux is really annoying But on the gaming front. Well, the results are kind of similar work and others are struggle Generally are usually better and games Overall, it's just not quite there why the Batocera devs but I also feel like with a bit of optimization emulation might just be within reach But yeah, right now So was it all really worth it then? if all you care about is gaming then. No probably not. You could grab a Raspberry Pi, get a cheap like 90% of the performance I did But as far as projects go, Not only did I level up my 3D modeling about Linux emulation, material science, now. Normally but I've actually decided to do And I've explained my reasoning So become a member Get early access to videos, and hopefully some other fun bonus content, And on that note, Peace.