For those of you who have a mobile phone in your hands right now, maybe you Can you wave your mobile phones? Okay, here's a quick question for you. What is the memory capacity of your phone? How many GB's is it? 256 GB. Anyone else? 512 GB. And is there anyone who forgot It happens. Now, it's incredible our pocket phones and hundreds and thousands of Now, my question to you is, what is What is the storage capacity Now, I'm sure you will all agree with me if I say that your brain has an You agree with that? Absolutely. brain has an estimated 2.5 Impressive, yeah? And the question is, how come we have such capacity, but we are still Why is that happening? So you'll find out the answer for Now, just before we go, I want to show you something really cool, something really show you the power of the So for this, I request the participation of any five people who is willing What you need to do is very simple. Please come here and write a six Now, I'll be behind the flip chart, so I will not be knowing Yeah, go ahead, please. Perfect. Shiva. So please take this So all you need to do is, I'm not going to look at the I'm going to stand here, close my eyes, if out loud to me from the first digit Yes, sir. 6, 8, 2, 6, 8, 3, 1, 4, 7, 7, 8, 4, 2, 3, 9, 4, 6, 1, 4, 9, 3, 1, 5, 8, 0, 6, 1, 0, 1, 4. Thank you. Big round of applause for everyone, Thank you very much. Okay, so what just happened, hopefully, is I tried to focus on these numbers So what I'm going to do is I'm going to close my eyes and try to recall these And if I make a mistake, there is a possibility sometimes, if I So I'll correct myself. Let's try. are Thank you! demonstration of what can be Now, one of my records very early in my memory days is I memorised a Looks something like that. Memorised decks of playing cards for For those of you thinking of taking We can talk about the Just kidding, by the way. And I also happen to break a Guinness record for memorising the Now, when I share all these stories and my the first thing that occurs to their mind Now, I've been living in But I was born and brought up in India in Now, in Hyderabad many years ago, there were telephone numbers which And I used to struggle memorising even a five digit number and fast Today I can confidently say I can remember period of time with amazing Now, the interesting thing is And that's exactly what I'm If you want to skyrocket your ability to like you never did before, you If your memory is great already, it means that you are, without knowledge, If your memory is not great, it's time Because these habits will Not only they will improve your memory and learning, but also they have the And that's what we'll be talking about. So what are the four habits? Number one is the habit of attention. And this is one of my favourite words I'll be talking about a lot in this segment Because it's one of the important That's number one. The habit of comprehension. Number three, the habit of recall. And number four, the habit of application. Whatever I remember in my life, And I highly encourage you to So let's first talk about The habit of attention. Now, we are living in the A lot of distractions, interruptions. And that's the reason why attention Now, I'm going to tell you a simple In my school days in India, back then, in primary school, we had a teacher who used to say a million times Please pay attention. And one day, very innocently, I wanted to ask a question to the &quot;Excuse me teacher, I have a question&quot;. My teacher was not in the mood for Because she was very furious What's your question?&quot; &quot;Ah..teacher, my question is..&quot; Now I'm &quot;My question is, you've been Can you please tell us Right after that, I realised that that was Because what I got back from my teacher Pay attention. What? She's not telling me how to pay attention? But it turns out your If you pay attention, As simple as that. So let's quickly go through The process of memory Can you shout out loud? What do you think are It could be right or wrong, just give me Retention. Recognise. Registration. Recall. Repeat. Yeah it helps sometimes. Thank you. Retrieval. Now you know what? Between all of us, we got the The first R of memory process Now, that's what is happening right now. Maybe you may call it as remembering, Registration means the process of Right now, I'm speaking, What you're doing is you are Similarly, when you are reading a book, or whatever it is, when you want to But the problem is, there are some right ways of registration and there are And if you use the wrong ways, you're seriously going to have a The second R is retention. Now, retention means, how long can you hold, store the information in Now, a lot of times people tell me, &quot;Nishant, I can remember Good. &quot;But also I forget very That's because this person has registration but may be struggling And finally, the last R Now, this is where, when people How do you know it's good memory? That means you can recall the right Boom. Then you know your memory is good. Now, the interesting thing is, if you make sure your registration is great, your retention and recall Not always, but mostly. But the problem is, if your registration be bad and your recall So we have to make sure we have And the way to do that is very simple: What your teachers said, Now, the problem is, in today's world, you are learning something, maybe you're you're attending a seminar and then you because the smartphone has become You have it all the time with you. So when you are learning, after some time, inevitably the smartphone Now, what do you do? In the last one decade, we have trained our brains that if the notification goes Not two minutes later, not 1 minute later. Must immediately you must attend to it. It's as if, you don't attend to the going to pop up, dare you ignore me?&quot; So people are That's the reason why they Now, this is what happened. Notification. You went out. And you just messed up with That is how powerful it is. Even if you do not click on the notification, you already messed And if you're thinking this Because that is how your retention and your recall will be adversely Now, you may be asking the question, &quot; something that you may not like The answer is pretty simple: At least in the time You can use notification some time else, but when you're learning, you have to Now, if some of you are thinking, Now, here's my point. Learning is something that In fact, you have to keep on If learning is so vital, Because when you dilute the learning, That's the reason why, at least for the time of learning, you must And that is the reason why you can do 100% Now, let's look at another word. We have this word GET. Now, what is this word? A lot of times people tell me, &quot;Why is it keep forgetting?&quot; What if I told you, the because you don't even get That's the reason why I say &quot;Before you the first place!&quot; I'll give How many times it happens to you? You walk into a networking event, you person, &quot;What's your name?&quot; The And within 1 nanosecond, not even a You just forgot the name. &quot;Oh my God, this person I don't have any idea. Does it start with a P I don't know anything. I forgot&quot; Did you forget? You did not even get When you are shaking hands, when that time your mind is going &quot;Am I presenting myself well? What should I say next? Who should I meet next?&quot; Your mind is So you're not even getting it. That's the reason why you forget. Another example I can give you is that when you are reading a book, Now please tell me if This is the text and these are the Now watch this movement of my marker. Because that's how your eyes Typically these days. Now you go from one word, next word, next word, next word, come back. Next Next word, next word, next word. &quot;Hey..oh..yeah yeah yeah!&quot; Come back. And then you keep on You can relate to that, I guess. Now what is that? I've seen many people after opening a book and start reading after They are in this position. The book is open, the eyes are open. The mouth is also open. Hey, where are your looking? &quot;Oh, thank you, thank you. I just got lost&quot; Now after some time, this is the same person who says, Oh, did you forget? No, you didn't even get That's the reason why Now you have to make sure One of the ways you can do, like I said, Now that is how powerful attention is. Now attention will help But you know what? And if you don't stack up the next habit, And you may have problem The next habit I'm talking about Now, a lot of times many people think that hey, comprehension is something No! Everyone on this planet, you have to The problem is, a lot of times, people they jump in with an Now, I'm not saying, &quot;Don't remember&quot; I'm not even saying don't Intention to remember is good, but Your primary intention has to be comprehension, understanding That's the reason why I say, &quot;F First understand, then remember. Because if you straight go to remembering, Which also means that you will And that's not a good thing to happen. Now, there are a couple of In fact, there are a lot of ways of But I'll just give you two for today. Number one is the process of association. This is a very, very important step for improving your memory and also a great Association simply means it's a process something that you have What is it that you want to learn today? You link it with something that So next time, when you want to learn an to do is to ask yourself, How can I relate this? How can I link it, associate it with something that I already know?&quot; Now, to do this comprehension, You can make some connections, or many someone who's already an expert in that than what you do in that Now, I used to have this problem and confusion when I was in between proper fraction I don't know how many of I had this terrible problem. My dad was very good at math. I said, &quot;Dad, please help me. What is the difference and how can I remember proper-improper fractions?&quot; He said, &quot;Okay, good. Can you draw the picture of a human about proper fractions&quot; &quot;Can you draw the right in a moment, I'm really, Okay? Something like this. So I said, &quot;That's a human being&quot; And my dad looked at it and said, &quot;Great, He took the pen back and he drew a line looks like a proper human being Example: 2/3, 17/55. So the head is small, the body is big. That is a proper fraction. And then he took the pen back from me, And then he asked me, do you No, I never see that. Very simple. So just by making a connection between proper fraction, with what I already Boom! I made the connection. Several decades later, I absolutely have difference between proper That is how powerful association is. And also it helps you with comprehension. That's the first way you can do it. And the second way is also very And that is the checkpoint technique. This is what I call as a checkpoint. Now, what is a checkpoint? A checkpoint is a predetermined spot or a place in a book or in a video that you For example, if you're reading a book, A checkpoint could be every three pages. Checkpoint could be every chapter. You can decide what a checkpoint is. Let's say you're going Maybe you're going through one of my online courses, and your checkpoint could Now, what you need to do is very simple. When you reach your predetermined checkpoint, pause and ask yourself, okay, have learned, the main ideas I have And next important thing, very important, First point, what are the three to five key ideas in the last checkpoint and If you can rephrase something in your own words, it usually means that your So that is how powerful registration is. That is how powerful the comprehension is. And comprehension can be done either As you can see here, the attention Comprehension will help Now, of course, the next And you already know It's exactly called as the recall. Now, here's some quick questions for you. Please answer as best as you can. Question number one: If you want to Swim more. If you want to be a better Play badminton more. If you want to be a public Speak More. If you want to have a better Memorise more. No! I mean, of course you can. There's no harm. Actually you can memorise more. But if you want to improve your capacity to memorise information, you do not A person who recalls more, a person who who is going to retain A typical way people learn is learn, . Maybe. you struggle way too much to get So what you need to do is: You learn, test And that is how you can really So if you want to train your memory, the actually sharpens his That's the reason why I say, &quot;Do not end session&quot; Do not end your learning So what's a recall session again? It's simply testing yourself. For example, there are Number one is you can do a self test. After the segment, after the book, after reading an article, close the book or Okay, what are the key things And that process actually will train That's what you could do. An even better way is to actually In other words, teach. How many have you heard this thing before? The best way to learn You heard that before? Why did they say that? Because before I can teach I have to comprehend it and only So you can do self test or It's up to you how you do that. The important thing is to recall. Bring out the information Now, as you've seen here, attention helps help you with retention and recalling Now, if you want to go to the fourth R, Now, what is the fourth R? We only have talked about three R's. Now the fourth R has not much to do with brain and memory, but it has Because the fourth R is results. If you want to improve results in your And the fourth habit, probably one of the most important habits you can think of I remember a time when I was very young to, I had to wait one full week Those of you who are old You have to wait one full week to And I cannot choose I don't know if it's going to be Tom I don't know. I just have to turn on the TV on Boom. That was many years ago, but fast forward it today, not only I can watch any cartoon learn anything I want just If I want to learn something new, I can go to YouTube, for example, The problem is not about The problem is too much of information. And that leads to something which is very A lot of times people are They have trained themselves You know why? Input is easy. All you need to do is to turn on the television, type some Boom, you are learning. Or buy a book, open a Kindle. You are in the input zone. Applying what you have learned. That is what output is. It takes time, it takes effort, it That's the reason many And you've heard this thing If you don't use the information, you are That's the reason why I say, &quot;It's not do with what you learn You need to not only to go through the take some time for recall Now, if you don't do that, if you don't do that, what happens is you Shallow learning means you think you are It's not deep. How do you get deep learning? Deep learning happens when Deep learning happens when you take the Deep learning happens when you take the time and effort to recall the And deep learning happens when you take what you've learned and put it And that is how you get the fourth R. That is how you get the results. &quot;Because lifelong learning will get you will get you the results&quot; No problem about it. You need to be learning But what is more awesome than lifelong So there we have it, the four habits. Attention, comprehension, As we come to the close of this presentation, I want to tell If you're not being able to do one or Many times it's not exactly your fault. It's because we all have gone through Some people even do longer. Now, well-intentioned teachers, well- intentioned schools, They do not teach you these habits. Quick question for you, or Did you ever attend a school where Did you ever attend a school where they made sure that you comprehended Did you ever attend a school where they you to test yourself - That's important. And did you ever attend a school where they designed lessons for If you attended such a school, But a lot of us have not attended such schools, and that's the reason why Now, learning without all these four habits is like driving a car where Well, you can definitely get along, but you'll be going in a snail's pace and And you're wondering, &quot;Holy cow, I'm action, putting in the effort, why I'm not The moment you bring in all these four but also you're filling the car with high even the slightest effort Just keep moving forward. So if you use these four habits, these four habits will help you to go from These four habits are the bridge And these four habits can 10x or more Thank you very much.