- So the big news is I'm a wizard now. Check this out. Look, (Narrator gulping) Empty goblet. Replete poculum (Narrator gasping) This is some &quot;Harry Potter&quot; merchandise that you can't get anymore, it must be about 20 years old, this thing, and it's got a really cool mechanism so, well, I had to laser I was pretty confident I Like, you can see the walls and there's something strange but I cut one in half And so my 2D model is but you'll notice it doesn't work at all. When I fill it up, the water And actually on closer inspection, look, there's a little hole on So I need to put a little And once again, I've made the classic 3D-to-2D conversion error. In 3D, the side walls form but in 2D it's now two separate chambers. It's also a problem for bell siphons. Will I never learn? So with the hole on both sides, air is able to escape and so they fill up with liquid as well. So you drink it off. The great part is, as long as you keep your finger over those holes, the water will remain hidden I mean, it's not hidden in this version, unless you're also 2D and but, anyway, it means you until you deliver the refilling charm. Replete poculum. Refilling charms do appear in the &quot;Harry Potter&quot; series, by the way, Harry uses it in the Half-Blood Prince but we don't know the actual incantation because Harry cast the charm non-verbally. So this uses a similar principle By putting your finger over one hole, you prevent the water from escaping from the only remaining hole. It doesn't work in exactly the same way as the Assassin's Teapot, they both rely on the fact that for water to escape from a container, air needs to be able to That's a consequence of I won't get into the details of that because I cover it in the but it's something you probably have an intuition for anyway, from the times you've played But the Harry Potter goblet and in the way they prevent air If a container has just one hole, that has to be the exit hole for the water and the entry hole for the air. And that is possible, so long The air kind of chaotically But if that one hole is so small that surface tension becomes important, then you do need a to be able to escape; and that's the working principle But the way the Harry Potter is more like the way a So look, this thing is full of water. Some of it's coming into the bottom there, and as water is removed via drinking, this is how chickens every chicken carries and they scoop the water out. Anyway, as the water's removed, more water from the container And the level of the water which is also quite So here's the 2D version. And look, as the chicken and the level remains the same. So just like the Assassin's Teapot, this water can't fall out of the container because air can't get in to replace it, but unlike the Assassin's Teapot it's not surface tension that's Instead, it's the fact that and that creates a kind of plug, like the air would have to somehow push this bit of water down to If that happened, that Ventus. The goblet works in the same way, air isn't able to get down because there is water in the way. Actually, this is how They've got a little and it comes out, and I noticed this cool thing while I was filling The stream is touching which creates a seal, which means we now have a fixed so as the water level rises a stream must bulge and then the cycle continues. Another issue with going from 3D to 2D is the volume available If adding hidden chambers to my 2D version was to double the width of the goblet, then those hidden chambers exactly the same volume but consider this top-down If adding a hidden chamber here were to double the width of the goblet, well, the hidden chamber would have three times the capacity So I ended up making my hidden chambers quite a bit thicker than the goblet ones. By the way, if you like I've had something in the that I think you'd be something you can own. So if you wanna make sure consider clicking the notification bell. It should be one of my next few videos. So I've got my own laser cutter now. (gentle upbeat music) I've been just cutting loads of stuff and just trying different things, and I've come up with this It's not related to the goblet at all, but it's a cool 2D water thing. So Jack Bull asked me the question, &quot;How does water drain?&quot; And I thought about it for actually I don't know the answer. Which is to say, &quot;If the water that comes out the plug hole, where does it come from? Does the water drain from or does it drain from the cylinder immediately above the plug hole or is it something in between?&quot; We know that if the body of water has any kind of rotation to begin with, it'll end up swirling but what if there is no rotation? I think we need a 2D version. (Narrator mumbling) (machine beeping) (water trickling) Well, that's not desperately helpful. If only we had some mutually Now, because this is 2D we but we also have boundary layer effects because of these two so this might not be a great but I still want to see it. So it looks to me like the water is coming evenly from all directions. I hope that answers your question, Jack. I also wondered about if the how different would that be? It's easier to see in this one that there's a boundary layer effect. The beads seems slower right There's this video effect in Premiere Pro editing It leaves a trail when things So look, if I turn that You can get a sense of in different places and It's quite mesmerizing. (gentle music) It's not my fault You've been lying, saying that I- - Watching it fill up is pretty cool too. Drowning by yourself, Like you have no options - I didn't realize this when I made the Convection Viewer video, so I really want to show you that now. How cool is it that you can see little eddy currents that formed, little vortices that That would be really hard to Link in the card in the description if you want to see that video in full. You know, life is full and it's important to but at the same time I'm the sort of nerd that thinks about optimization a lot. Is there a system I can put in place now, or something that I can do and friction in the future? As a result, I have all sorts And thanks to the sponsor there is one really easy to remove annoyances in the future and improve your security The annoyances in question junk mail, and spam emails. The reason you get these is because of companies They collect data about you and then sell that on to marketers. Data brokers must delete The problem is there are 100s of them and they all want to be asked So Incogni have done all that work upfront to figure out how those companies operate, all you have to do is give them permission to act on your behalf and then they just take care of the rest. They contact them all, they and you can go onto your look, these are all the companies that no longer have my data. And the reason it improves security is because data breaches are And when a data broker has a breach, that's loads of personal that is now in the hands of a criminal. If that sounds like then the promo on this one is really good. If you go to incog.com/science, you'll get 60% off their annual plan. The link is also in the description, so check out Incogni today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and the algorithm thinks (lively music)