- Hey folks, Toby Mathis here and today we're going to could be the best decision you ever make. So hang on tight 'cause I'm coming from this one. Alright, there are absolutely and logical reasons why you Now I'm going to break it down and I'm going to give of why looking poor could Now, I'm not talking about looking poor in the sense of looking homeless, I'm just saying don't look overtly wealthy and there are plenty of reasons why. Number one is avoiding lawyers and snoops. A number of people who have have said it's the worst thing and one of the main reasons is because of everybody coming around digging into all their stuff, the lawyers involved and Now there's another reason is that if everybody knows you have money, you're literally putting for someone who decides to your wealth. I think it was Mark Cuban that once said one of the worst parts was all the lawyers they had to deal with because there is a constant barrage of people trying to take So one of the best ways to look poor is to not have your name It's something we teach all the time at our Tax and Asset Protection Workshops but it's making it so people via a public record, which means they can't go type up a search and see all your rental properties, all the businesses you own, all of the things that you have going on. You can get your name So looking poor, may be as simple as not being overtly You could still have it, but we want to make it to don't come looking for it. Number two, believe it or Now there's been plenty of studies on the psychological impact of living in certain neighborhoods and this is going to, this might tweak you the wrong way. If it bothers you, let about why it bothers you but this is the truth. People that try to keep are less happy than people that don't. And so if you don't try to keep up with whatever your like let's say that you are and you avoid the temptation of going into a lavish neighborhood, or if you do, you don't hey, I see they have a Rolls, my neighbor's got a Rolls that's a lot of pressure. And even if you buy those items, you're not going to be happy because you're trying to In other words, we're looking It sounds weird, but there's study after So by living a little more modest and not trying to look rich, studies prove it. Number three, gold diggers, and I'm not talking about your spouse, I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about other people that all of a sudden decide because they perceive And I can use me as an it was publicly, there was a press release and all of a sudden, every financial planner decided that they were my best friend and really had some good ideas about what I could do with my money. You want to avoid that if at all possible by keeping a low profile. Now some things, there's like there's nothing I could But what I can do is make sure that I have a low so that I'm not attracting people who are going to start trying to ask and help themselves to my money. It always surprises me that I'm an angel investor and they're putting their name out there and I talk to them and they're always getting hit up. And I'm like, that's because you said and put yourself out You basically waved a flag and I'm willing to share it with anybody who has a great idea. Of course you're going to get pitched. You want to put up some with either other professionals or by getting your name so that you don't get hit Number four, and this is a weird one, but some people are you want to avoid I've heard this over and over again, somebody who makes a lot of money and they say, I didn't and they started treating me differently. And a lot of times there's not You can be aware of it and you could say, hey, you know what, I'm not going to flaunt I'm not going to sit there and because I have something Now some of you guys who are wealthy, you already know what I'm talking about. If you had friends from or whatever and you're around them, you have to be a little bit sensitive to the idea that what you're able to do, for example, you go out to dinner, you may see a bottle of wine, $400 bottle of wine and but somebody else, it may be causing them to feel a little bit and also, there are people that and say, oh, you're one of those people. And so I just say, maybe be sensitive to it, just be aware that if you there are people who will And depending on your social circles, that may not be a good thing, especially for you and your family. You may want to tone it And again, I see people, and the first thing they want to do is go out and get the really nice car, get the big house, get the big boat, they want to start, hey, let's go on a ton of and you're sharing it with everybody but there might be people that are looking at you a just be aware of it. Now number five, this not looking rich because you I think it was Kurt one of his friends who was a publisher and they were in the Hamptons, they were around all these &quot;Doesn't it bother you that makes more in a day than you in what in this particular case And he said, &quot;No, 'cause I have something And he said, &quot;What's that?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Enough&quot;. And we all know people that I call 'em rich, miserable bastards. They've never figured out the which is the personal satisfaction. And there is something to be said for, hey, I am deliberately and wearing my jeans. Right, I'm satisfied I like my family, I like And yes, I could do the private jet, yes, I could do the Rolls Royce, yes, I could do some and I could go out and pop and spend $10,000 a night and do all that crazy stuff, right, but it wouldn't make you happy. And just realizing, hey, that doesn't bring me any happiness is part of the equation that It's something that I've 'cause I work with investors and I can tell you all five and from my personal experience. Right, I see these folks and you see somebody who's and then they reach it to they leave their job, they and sometimes, sometimes they start going and they get very conscious of it. And I can tell you each one of these, I've had stories that people have told me that they shared with me about how other people perceived them caused them a certain amount of pain 'cause they said, that's not me. But I'm like, well, you know, you can't control what other people think, but you can control what you do, and then again, how you react with it, and you could be a little sensitive to it 'cause a lot of times it's the last thing hey, got a bunch of money, I'm going to start to spend it. I get it, that's usually the especially you have a a big event, you know, if you win the statistically you're not going but if you build your It's the next generation that And so you want to teach them so that they don't go out and blow it up. And usually, when somebody it's because they get the big windfall and then they start chasing and they think, this is what And if you just tap the brakes, slow the roll on those things, and so that's your why but while looking poor could be one of the best is when you consciously say, I'm not going to enter that race. I'm just going to be me and and do the things that you're going to be much better off. Let me know in the comments Share this with anybody you there are some folks out and then if you can, like and subscribe.