Working for God By Andrew Murray Introduction to remind all Christian workers of the greatness a share. As we see that it is God's own work that we and that in our working, His glory rests on it our joy to live only and wholly for His The purpose of this book at the same time do not even know enough to complain, that them discover what may be the cause of so God's work must be done in God's way and in It is spiritual work to be done by spiritual The clearer our insight into, and the more work, the surer and richer our joy and reward I have also noticed the great number of Christians of their Lord. They have never understood that the chief Christ is love and its work of blessing men. The divine life in us can show itself in no I have tried to show that it is God's will whatever his position in life, give himself I have also written in the hope that some life and work may find thoughts that will duty, the urgent need, and the divine blessedness I hope to awaken the consciousness of the and power of Christ Himself. To the great host of workers in church and and Sunday Schools, in Endeavour Societies, and in all the various forms of Christian offer these meditations with the fervent prayer fellow workers with Himself. Andrew Murray First Day They who wait for the LORD shall renew their . . . - Isaiah 40:31 which worketh for him that waiteth for him. - Isaiah 64:4 ERV between waiting and working is made clear. In the first verse, we see that waiting brings the person for joyful and unwearied work. Scripture: Those that wait for the LORD shall wings as eagles; they shall run and not be (Isaiah 40:31). Waiting on God has its value in that it makes The second verse reveals the secret of this for him. The waiting on God secures the working of must spring. The two passages teach the great lesson that true working for God, so working for God must Our great need is to hold the two sides of Some people say they wait on God, but they There may be various reasons for this. Someone may confuse true waiting on God (in One) and wholehearted devotion to Him with oneself from all work until God, by some special Another may wait on God more truly, regarding Christian life, but never understand that surrender and the readiness to be equipped And still another may be ready to work as overpowering inflow of the Spirit's power He forgets that more grace is only given to only in working that we can be taught by the All such individuals, and all Christians, its objective, and it is only in working that blessedness. As we elevate working for God to its true and power, and the absolute need and the divine On the other hand, many work for God but know They have been led to take up Christian work feeling at the bidding of a pastor or a society, thing it is to work for God. They do not know that God's work can only in us. They have never learned that just as the Son as the Father did the work in Him, so too works in him. The Son lived in continual dependence upon These individuals do not understand that it can rest on us. So they have no understanding of a continual essential conditions of successful work. Christ's church and the world suffer terribly are not working for God, but also because on God. Among the members of the body of Christ is Some who are confined to their homes due to for waiting on God than opportunity of direct Others who are exhausted by work find it difficult These may mutually supply each other's lack. Let those who have time for waiting on God Let those who are working claim the aid of on God. In this way, the unity and the health of the Those who wait will know that the outcome will know their only strength is the grace So, God will work for His church that waits Let us pray that as we proceed in these meditations us how sacred and how urgent our calling is May He show us how absolute our dependence sure it is that those who wait on Him shall May we find waiting on God and working for 1. It is only as God works for me and in me that 2. All His work for me is through His life in 3. He will surely work, if I wait on Him. 4. All His working for me and my waiting on Him work of saving men. Second Day Ye are the light of the world. . . . Let your light so shine before men that Father who is in the heavens. - Matthew 5:14, 16 are in darkness - that by it they may see. The sun lights up the darkness of this world. A lamp is hung in a room to give it light. The church of Christ is the light of men, eyes. Christ's disciples are to shine into their As the rays of light stream forth from the good works of believers are the light that darkness with its ignorance of God and separation What a high and holy place is thus given to What power is attributed to them. How much depends upon them. They are not just the light and health and the means of bringing lost souls out of darkness But they are even more. They not only bless men, but they also glorify of the grace seen in His children. We propose a study of Scripture as it concerns for God and His kingdom. Listen to what these words of the Master have The objective of good works Remember how our Lord said to the Father, finished the work which thou didst give me We read more than once of His miracles when It was because what He had done was distinctly It is when our good works are more than the the impression of God on them that men will They must be the good works of which the Sermon children who do more than others and seek perfect. Men may not yet be converted when they glorify a preparation for conversion. The works prepare the way for the words and truth that is taught; without them, the world The whole world was made for the glory of Christ came to redeem us from sin and bring Believers are placed in the world for this in good works to win men to God. As truly as the light of the sun is meant children are meant to be the light for those We need to form a correct impression of good and divine and have the power to verify that The power of good works and the life was the light of men (John 1:4). The divine life gave out a divine light. Of His disciples Christ said, he that follows the light of life (John 8:12). Christ is our life and light. When it is said to us, Let your light so shine, dwells in you, shine. As in the power of His life, you do your good who see you. And because Christ in you is your light, then may be, can carry with them a power of divine The measure of the divine power in your works those who see them. Oh, child of God, submit to the life and light your Father in heaven because of what they The urgent need for good works day, even more necessary is it for every believer We have been reborn in Christ for this purpose in the world. Christ wants you, my friend, to let His light Perishing men around you need your light if God needs you to let His glory be seen through As wholly as a lamp is given to light a room, light of a dark world. Let us undertake the study of what working of this, with the desire to follow Christ into our hearts and lives and radiate from 1. Ye are the light of the world. These words express the calling of the church The fulfillment of her duty will depend upon to love and live for those around him. 2. In all our efforts to waken the church to must be to raise the standard of life for As truly as a candle only exists to give light existence is to be a light to men. 3. Pray that by His Holy Spirit, God will reveal to let the light and love of the life of God Third Day Son, go work today in my vineyard. - Matthew 21:28 He told each to go and work in his vineyard. The one went, but the other did not. God also told every child of His to work in but the majority of God's children are not Of all the mysteries that surround us in the incomprehensible that after eighteen hundred unknown to more than half of the human race? Just consider what this means. To restore the ruin that sin had created, own Son to the world to tell men of His love When Christ made His disciples partakers of brings, it was with the understanding that the lights of the world. He spoke of all who would believe through He left the world with the distinct instruction teach all nations to observe all that He had At the same time, He gave the assurance that would always be with His people, and that be able to witness for Him to the ends of In His last words to the disciples, he commanded but wait for the promise of the Father, . . . ye which shall come upon you, and ye shall be And what do we see now? After eighteen hundred years, two-thirds of of Jesus. And of the other third, the larger half is Consider again what this means. All these dying millions, whether in Christendom and His salvation. They have a right to Him. Their salvation depends on their knowing Him. He could change their lives from sin and wretchedness Christ has a right to them. His heart would be glad if they came to be But they are dependent on His people connecting And yet His people do nothing compared to and to what ought to be done. Just consider once again what this means. What a revelation of the state of the church. The great majority of those who are considered making Christ known to their fellow man. Of the remainder, the majority are doing so of the lack of wholehearted devotion, that to their Lord's service. And of the remaining portion who have given many are occupied with the hospital work of such that the strength left for aggressive reduced. Scripture: The harvest truly is plenteous, So, with a finished salvation, a loving Redeemer, to men, the millions are still perishing. No question to the church is of more intense be done to waken believers to a sense of their for God and offer themselves as instruments be the one purpose of their life? The vain complaints are heard of a lack of the great majority of Christians. Vain attempts to waken an interest in missions make us feel that nothing less than a revival raise even the average Christian to an entirely No true change can come until the truth is law of the kingdom: Every believer is to live The father who called his sons to work in to do as much or as little as they chose. They lived in his home, they were his children, - their time and strength. God expects this of His children. Until it is understood that each child of interest and work, until it is understood for God, the evangelization of the world cannot Let every reader listen, and the Father will 1. Why do stirring appeals on behalf of missions Because the command with its motives is brought devotion and immediate obedience to their 2. If it is seen and confessed that the lack low and sickly Christian life, all who plead to proclaim the calling of every believer Every missionary meeting will be a consecration Spirit's power. 3. The average standard of holiness and devotion or in the church at large than in individual 4. Everyone cannot go abroad or give all his his calling or circumstances, can give his of the kingdom. Fourth Day As the man who, taking a far journey, left and to each one his responsibility and commanded - Mark 13:34 to do her Master's work or to insist upon led me to ask the question, &quot;What must be of her calling?&quot; This little book is an attempt to give the Working for God must take a different and of Christ's disciples than it has in the past. In studying the question of what must be done, of a great educator. The opening sentence of the preface to his the most original and striking figure in the He attributes his own power and success to and the faithfulness with which he carried I have found them as useful in the work of will clarify some of the chief lessons this The root principle that distinguished his was this: Every boy in school, even the dullest, At Eton, where Thring had been educated and the evil of the opposite system. The school kept up its reputation by training the majority were neglected. He maintained that this was dishonest: there care for all alike. Every boy had some gift; every boy needed every boy could be fitted to know and fulfill Apply this to the church. Every believer, the weakest as much as the for the kingdom of his Lord. Scripture: For in the manner that we have the members do not have the same operation Every believer has an equal claim on the grace his gifts to equip him for his work. Scripture: Likewise many of us are one body So that having different gifts according to And every believer has a right to be taught Lord expects of him. When the truth that every believer, even the God, gets its true place, can there be any Not one can be missed, because the Master Another of Thring's principles was this: It Make it voluntary and not compulsory. Don't lead the boys blindfolded. Show them why they have to work, what its in it, and what pleasure may be found in it. He says a little time stolen for that purpose compensated for by the spirit that will be What a field is opened for the preacher of Christ's disciples. He can unfold before them the greatness, the to be done. He will have the opportunity to show the value approval by becoming the benefactors and saviors He can help them develop that spiritual vigor, of self-sacrifice, which lead to the true A third truth that Thring insisted on was in the possibility of success in gaining the That objective is not much knowledge; not The drawing out and cultivation of the power this is for every boy. As a learner's powers of observation grow within himself a source of power and pleasure that is beginning to live, and the world around &quot;He becomes conscious of an infinity of unsuspected daily tasks . . . becomes lord of an endless and power.&quot;2 education, what light is shed on the calling The &quot;know-ye-nots&quot; of Scripture - that ye and that the Holy Spirit dwells in you - acquire Scripture: Know ye not that ye are the temple you? (1 Corinthians 3:16). It tells us that the one thing that needs is the faith in the power that works in us As one sees the worth and the glory of the of being able to do that work, and learns Spirit of God working in him, &quot;he will become unsuspected glory in the midst of daily tasks of light and pleasure and power.&quot; This is the royal life that God has called The true Christian is one who knows God's when the life of God flows into him, and through 1. We must learn to believe in the power of littles As men are saved one by one, they must be 2. We must believe that work for Christ can become pleasure in the spiritual world as in the 3. We must believe and teach that every believer Are you seeking to be filled with love for Fifth Day For it [the kingdom of heaven] is like a man his own slaves and delivered unto them his And unto one he gave five talents, to another to his faculty. - Matthew 25:14-15 instructive summary of our Lord's teaching do. He tells of His going to heaven and leaving He tells of giving everyone something to do, to get back His money with interest. He tells of the failure of the one who had neglect. He called his own slaves and delivered unto . . . and straightway took his journey. This is literally what our Lord did. He went to heaven and left His work with all His goods were the riches of His grace, the Word, and the Spirit with all the power of As the apostle Paul proclaimed, Blessed be who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings All these He gave in trust to His servants The work He had begun, they were to continue Like a rich merchant who leaves Cape Town carried on by trustworthy servants, our Lord and entrusted His work on earth to their care. Through their neglect, it would suffer, but Here we have the true root principle of Christian on the faithfulness of His people for the Scripture: Unto one he gave five talents, one according to his faculty. Though there was a difference in the measure, goods. It is in connection with the service we are grace according to the measure of the gift This truth, that every believer without exception of winning the world for Christ, has almost Christ was first a Son, then a servant. Every believer is first a child of God, then It is the highest honor of a son to be a servant Neither the home nor the foreign missionary until every believer feels that the one purpose kingdom. The first duty of the servants in the parable master's interests. Scripture: After a long time the lord of those (Matthew 25:19). Christ keeps watch over the work He has left depend upon it. He will not only hold reckoning when He comes inquire of His servants as to their welfare He comes to approve and encourage, to correct By His Word and Spirit, He asks us whether His devoted servants, living only and entirely He finds some laboring diligently, and to joy of thy lord (Matthew 25:21). Others He sees who are discouraged, and He Some He finds working in their own strength, Still others He finds sleeping or hiding their warning: from him that has not shall be taken Christ's heart is in His work; every day He Let us not disappoint Him or deceive ourselves. Scripture: I was afraid and went and hid thy That the man with the one talent should have is a lesson of great seriousness. It calls the church to beware lest by neglecting service is also needed, she allows them to In teaching the great truth that every branch on the danger of thinking that this can only When truth reigns in a school, the most backward one. Care must be taken that the weakest Christians may joyfully have their share in the service If Christ's work is to be done, not one can Scripture: Lord, I knew thee that thou art Wrong thoughts of God and looking upon His causes of failure in service. If the church is to care for the weak ones, discouraged due to their conscious weakness, of grace and the certainty of success. They must learn to believe that the power the work God has called them to. They must learn to understand that God will the inner man. Scripture: Not that we are sufficient of ourselves sufficiency is of God (2 Corinthians 3:5). They must be taught that work is joy and health Unbelief lies at the root of laziness. Faith opens the eyes to see the blessedness provided, and the rich reward. Let the church awaken to her calling to train on every redeemed person to live wholly for This alone is true Christianity and full salvation. Sixth Day My food is to do the will of him that sent - John 4:34 that sent me. - John 9:4 finished the work which thou didst give me And now, O Father, clarify thou me with thine - John 17:4-5 at the beginning of this chapter and see what Christ showed His own glory and that of the Because of the work He had done, and because claim to share the glory of the Father in The greater works that He was to do in answer Father to be glorified in the Son. Work is indeed the highest form of existence, in the Father and in His Son. What is true of God is true of His creature. Life is movement and action; it reveals itself The bodily life, the intellectual, the moral, national - each of these is judged by its The character and quality of the work depends On the other hand, the life depends on the and expression and perfecting of the life; This is especially true of the spiritual life There may be a great deal of religious work of human will and effort but with little true weak. When the believer does not know that Christ of God work in him, there may be much earnestness On the contrary, there may be much external that prove the life is indeed of God. The work depends upon the life, and the life All life has a destiny; it cannot accomplish by work. The highest expression of its hidden nature Work is the great factor by which the hidden Christian life are brought out. For the sake of what it accomplishes through what it effects in the child of God, work As in the Father and the Son, so with the expression of life. Work must be restored to its right place in highest form of existence. To be the intelligent, willing channel of the work of God, to be animated by the divine to work life and blessing to men, gives nobility It is for this we are created in the image As God never ceases to work His work of love working out what He works in us is our highest If God's purpose in the perfection of the His church as the body of Christ to carry to His allegiance and love is to be carried as the true glory of our Christian calling. Every believer must be taught that our work the only perfect expression and therefore the world. Shall it be so in our lives? If this is to take effect, we must remember The one is that it can only occur by beginning Those who have not had their attention directed is to make work a matter of thought and prayer Scripture: In all labour there is fruit, but 14:23). It is easier to hear than to think, easier than to act. We may listen and accept and admire God's willingness to do and yet not actually do. Let us take up our calling as God's working of grace we have and pray for more. Doing is the best teacher. If you want to know how to do a thing, begin Then you will feel the need for the second there is sufficient grace in Christ for all You will see with ever-increasing gladness as the member, and how work for God may become your highest participation in the power of 1. Life and work: beware of separating them. The more work you have, the more your work If you feel unfit for work, take all the more in close fellowship with God. 2. Christ lives in me: this is the secret of Care for the life, and the life will care Be filled with the Spirit (Ephesians 5:18). Seventh Day Jesus answered them, My Father works until - John 5:17 and the Father in me? The words that I speak unto you I speak not he does the works. - John 14:10 us what a true man is, how God meant to live life and do his work in God. In words like those above, our Lord opens to us the nature and the deepest secret of He did not come to the world to work instead - He works until now. Christ's work was the fruit, the earthly reflection, And it was not as if Christ merely saw and The Father that dwells in me, he does the Christ did all His work in the power of the So complete and real was His dependence on He used strong expressions: The Son can do do; . . . I can of my own self do nothing What He said, which is literally true of us - is true of Him also - the Father that dwells Jesus Christ became man that He might show between man and God, and the true way to serve When we become new creatures in Christ Jesus, was and is in Christ; only by studying His Scripture: As . . . I live by the Father, me (John 6:57). His dependence on the Father is the law of Him. Christ counted it no humiliation to do nothing on the Father. He counted it His highest glory, because all God in Him. When shall we understand that to wait on God, and to let Him work everything in us is our activity? This alone is the true Son life, the true As this life is known and maintained, the who hath prepared for him that waiteth on It is the ignorance or neglect of the great God works it in us, but God cannot work in on Him. That is the explanation of the universal complaint result. The revival that many are longing and praying ministers and workers to their true place of complete dependence and continual waiting Let me invite all workers, young and old, full of fear, to come and learn from our Lord Scripture: My Father works until now, and the works (John 14:10). Divine Fatherhood means that God is all, and Divine Sonship means continual dependence moment, of all the strength needed for His Try to grasp the great truth that because your one need is to wait for and trust in (1 Corinthians 12:6). Learn from this that God can only work in The Father that dwells in me, he does the Cultivate the awareness of God's continual and of His dwelling in you. Scripture: For ye are the temple of the living and walk in them and I will be their God, 6:16). Offer yourself for Him to work all His good You will find that work can become your greatest and childlike dependence. At first, the waiting for God to work will It may indeed - but only to bring the greater of faith that depends on His working even You may have to do your work in weakness and You will know that it is the excellency of As you know yourself better and know God better, be His strength made perfect in our weakness. 1. The Father that dwells in me, he does the There is the same law for the Head and for It is the same God who works all in each one 2. The Father not only worked in the Son when Son now that He is in heaven. It is as we believe in Christ in the Father's works. Read John 14:10-12: and the Father in me? The words that I speak unto you I speak not he does the works. Believe me that I am in the Father and the works' sake. Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believes and greater works than these shall he do because 3. As the indwelling God, the Father, dwells Let the life of God in the soul be clear, 4. Pray for grace to say, in the name of Jesus, works. Eighth Day Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believes and greater works than these shall he do because And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in be glorified in the Son. If ye ask any thing in my name, I will do - John 14:12-14 dwells in me, he does the works, Christ had service - man yielding himself for God to When Christ promises He that believes in me, law of the divine &quot;in-working&quot; remains unchanged. In us, even a thousand times more than with in me, he does the works. With Christ and with us, the same God works How this can be is taught in these words - He These words do not only apply to salvation, Christ had just said, Believe me that I am Father that dwells in me, he does the works We need to believe in Christ as the One in When we see the Father's working inseparably in Christ is to receive the Father dwelling The works His disciples are to do cannot possibly own are done. This becomes clearer from what our Lord adds: I go unto my Father. What are the greater works? The disciples at Pentecost with three thousand and Philip at Samaria with the whole city The men of Cyprus and Cyrene, and later Barnabas are greater works. Paul in his travels and a countless host of what the Master calls greater works than He Our Lord makes it plain why it should be so: When He entered the glory of the Father, all Him as our Redeemer. In a way more glorious than ever, the Father work through His disciples. Even as His own work on earth in the days power received from the Father in heaven, like His, and greater works in the same way The law of the divine working is unchangeable: As we see this in Christ and receive Him as and so yield ourselves to the Father working works than He did. The words that follow bring out still more - that our Lord Himself will work everything Our responsibility is to be exactly what His Scripture: Greater works than these shall And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in Christ connects the greater works the believer whatever the believer asks. Prayer in the name of Jesus will be the expression working to which He gives the promise - whatsoever I do. Then He adds, that the Father may be glorified He reminds us of how He had glorified the all His work in Himself as Son. In heaven, Christ would still glorify the and by working in His disciples what the Father The creature, as the Son Himself, can give Him to work all. The believer can glorify the Father in no and unceasing dependence on the Son in whom the Father's work in us. If ye ask any thing in my name, I will do Let every believer strive to learn the one We are to do the works we have seen Christ yield ourselves to Christ, exalted on the We may depend on Him working in us according Our one need is the spirit of dependence and abiding in us will do the works, even whatsoever 1. How was Christ able to work the works of God? By God abiding in Him! How can I do the works of Christ? By Christ abiding in me! 2. How can I do greater works than Christ? By believing not only in Christ, the incarnate on the throne. 3. Oh believer, in work, everything depends on Pray to realize that work is vain except as in you. Ninth Day For by grace are ye saved through faith . . . Not For we are his workmanship, created in Christ that we should walk in them. - Ephesians 2:8-10 works. How vast the difference. How essential the comprehension of that difference Not of works that we have done, as the source good works, as the fruit and outcome of salvation for which we have been created again. As worthless as our works are in procuring what God has created and prepared us. Let's seek to hold these two truths to their The deeper our conviction that we have been the proof we will give that we have indeed Not of works, . . . For we are his workmanship. If works could have saved us, there would if righteousness comes by the law, then Christ Because our works were all sinful and vain, His workmanship, and all the good works we His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus. The ruin of sin had been so complete that in Christ Jesus. In Him, and particularly in His resurrection His own image. He created us into the likeness of the life In the power of that life and resurrection, good works. We who have been created in Christ Jesus for capacity for good works is the very law of for light and the vine for bearing grapes. If we know and believe this is our destiny created in Him to do, we can and will be fruitful Created in Christ Jesus for good works, which We have been prepared for the works, and the Think of how God foreordained His servants Peter and Paul - for the work He had for them The weakest member of the body is equally The Father has prepared works for the humblest counted leaders. God has a life plan for every child, with grace provided according to the work. So just as strong and clear as the teaching counterpart of salvation for good works, because them for us. Scripture confirms the double lesson this The one is that good works are God's purpose to be just as distinctly your objective. As every human being was created for work only live out a true and healthy life by working. So, every believer exists to do good works fellow men may be blessed, and his Father We educate all our children with the thought but when will the church learn that its great share in God's great work and abound in the Let each of us seek to take in the deep spiritual for good works, which God has prepared for fulfill. The other lesson is that waiting on God is we desire to do the good works God has prepared Let us take these words in their divine meaning not by one act in the past, but by a continuous We are created for good works as the great The good works are prepared for each of us Surrender to and dependence upon God's working Let us consider how our new creation for good in Him, believing on Him, and looking for our soul. Created for good works will reveal to us at power to live a life in good works. Let us pray for the Holy Spirit to work the created in Christ Jesus for good works. In its light, we shall learn what a glorious what a perfect capacity is ours. 1. Our creation in Adam was for good works. It resulted in entire failure. Our new creation in Christ is for good works has been made for securing them. 2. Created by God for good works, created by by God for us - let us pray for the Holy Spirit means. 3. Let the life in fellowship with God be true, As the life, so will be the work. Tenth Day Work out your own saving health with fear For it is God who works in you both to will - Philippians 2:12-13 is our being God's workmanship, created in One of its chief and essential elements was that God has prepared for us. In light of this thought, we get the true 2. Work out your own salvation such as God has that He has prepared for you. Study to know exactly what the salvation is Discover all that He has made possible for Let the greatness of this divine and holy absolute insufficiency and the terrible dangers in fear and trembling. And yet, that fear doesn't need to become for it is God who works in you. Here is the secret of a power that is sufficient assurance that we can do all that God wants God works in us both to will and to do the First to will: He gives the insight into what pleasure, and the firm purpose of the will ready and eager for action. And then to do the work: He does not excite it out ourselves. The will may have seen and accepted the work, it. The renewed will of Romans 7 delighted in until in Romans 8: For the law of the Spirit from the law of sin and death. . . . the righteousness of the law might be the flesh, but according to the Spirit (Romans One great cause of the failure of believers God has given them the will, they undertake They have never learned that because God has and has prepared the good works for us, He Some have never listened long to the voice Here we have one of the deepest, most spiritual, unceasing operation of almighty God in our In character with the very nature of God as but everywhere present, there can be no spiritual indwelling. Scripture says, the same God works all in Not only do all things have their beginning Him who alone maintains them. In the man Christ Jesus, the working of the In the new man, created in Christ Jesus, the highest privilege, our true nobility. This is indeed fellowship with God: God Himself Let us seek to learn the true secret of working It is not, as many think, that we do our best By no means. The faith of God's working in us is the measure The promises according to your faith be it that believes have their full application The deeper our faith in God's working in us, in us and the more true and fruitful our work What if a Sunday school worker reads this? Let me ask this: Have you really believed one who has been created in Christ Jesus for to will and to work? Have you yielded yourself to wait for that Do you work because you know God works in Don't say these thoughts are too lofty. Indeed, the work of leading young souls to live as little children by believing that His work in His strength. Pray often to learn and practice the lesson 1. I think we begin to feel that the spiritual in you, is what all workers need. 2. The Holy Spirit is the mighty power of God Ask the Lord for the Holy Spirit, so that be the daily renewing of the Holy Spirit. 3. Obey the command to be filled with the Holy Believe in His indwelling. Wait for His teaching. Yield to His leading. Pray for His mighty working. Live in the Spirit. 4. What the mighty power of God works in us we Only give way to the power working in you. Eleventh Day For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision avails works by charity. . . . only do not use liberty for an occasion For all the law is fulfilled in one word, as thyself. - Galatians 5:6, 13-14 of value. The Jew might boast of his circumcision, the The Gentile might boast of his uncircumcision the Jewish law. Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision profited except being a new creature, in which old new. Scripture: For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision new creature (Galatians 6:15). Therefore if anyone is in Christ, they are behold, all things are made new (2 Corinthians Or, as we have it in our text - as a description but faith which works by love makes us serve What a perfect description of the new life. First, you have faith as the root, planted Then as its purpose, you have works as the Between the two, as the tree grows down into love with life sap that flows through the We need not speak of faith here. We have seen how believing in Jesus does the and in God working in us is the secret of Nor do we need to speak of works - this whole and life that they have in God's heart and We need to study particularly the great truth cannot do its work except through love, that come from love, and that love alone is the to do. The power for work is love and redemption. Love enabled Christ as man to work and suffer Love can inspire us with the power of self-sacrifice to live and die for others. Love gives us the patience that refuses to Love reaches and overcomes the most hopeless. Love is the power for work in ourselves and Let us love as Christ loved us. Scripture: Be ye therefore imitators of God, as the Christ also has loved us and has given to God for a sweet smelling savour (Ephesians The power for love is faith Jesus, which is all love. Faith knows the wonderful gift that has been God's love there, even when we cannot realize A spring in the earth may often be hidden Until it is opened, the fountain cannot flow Faith knows that there is a fountain of love and flow out as rivers of living waters. It assures us that we can love, that we have endowment of our new nature. The power to exercise and show love is work emerges as it is exercised. Power at rest cannot be found or felt. This is especially true of the Christian graces, human nature. Only by doing can we know what we have; a its possession. This is the unspeakable blessedness of work life that it awakens and strengthens love Faith working by love Workers for God, believe this. Practice it. Thank God for the fountain of eternal love Pray fervently and frequently that God would the inner man, that the Christ may dwell in and grounded in charity, may be able to well and length and depth and height and to know Then, live your daily life in your own home, all your work as a life of divine love. The ways of love are so gentle and heavenly, But be of good courage; only believe in the to the work of love, and it will surely gain Faith working by love. In Christ Jesus nothing works but this. Let me press this message home for those who to think of working for God. You owe everything to God's love. The salvation you have received is all love. God's one desire is to fill you with His love and for the saving of men. Now I ask you - won't you accept God's wonderful Come and submit your heart and life to the Believe that the fountain of love is within it by deeds of love. Whatever work you try to do for God, seek Pray for the spirit of love. Live a life of love and consider how you can by serving them, and by laboring for their Only faith working by love in Christ Jesus 1. Faith, hope, love: the greatest of these is 2. Love is the nature of God. When it is shed abroad in our hearts by the Believe this, give yourself over to it, and 3. Love is God's power to do His work. Love was Christ's power. To work for God, pray earnestly to be filled Twelfth Day That ye might walk worthy of the Lord, pleasing good work, and growing in the knowledge of - Colossians 1:10 Fruit is that which comes spontaneously without outcome of a healthy life. Work, on the other hand, is the product of In the Christian life, we have the two elements All true work must be fruit, the growth and God's Spirit within us. And yet, all fruit must be work, the effect In the words, being fruitful in every good the truth taught in previous chapters. Because God works by His life in us, the work Because, in the faith of His working, we have work. In the harmony between the perfect spontaneity us, and our cooperation with Him as His intelligent work. In the words that precede our text, filled and spiritual understanding, we have the human 1:9). In the words that follow our text, strengthened his glory, we have the divine side (Colossians God teaches and strengthens; man learns to is the double life that will be fruitful in It has been said of the Christian life that and then the spiritual man must become natural. As the whole natural life becomes truly spiritual, fruit, the outgrowth of the life of God within And as the spiritual becomes perfectly natural at home, all the fruit will bear the mark Being fruitful in every good work. These words suggest the great thought that for its fruit, and a great purpose of our work and service. As Thomas Carlyle said, &quot;The end of man is the noblest.&quot; In his work, the nobility of man's nature been created in Christ Jesus for good works When men see our good works, our Father in that is His due for His workmanship. In the parable of the vine, our Lord insisted the same brings much fruit (John 15:5). In this is my Father clarified, in that ye Nothing honors a husbandman more than to succeed glory to God. What does every believer need - even the weakest only one talent - to be encouraged, helped, A little strawberry plant may bear a more The call to be fruitful in every good work The grace that equips us for the work is for Every branch fruitful in every good work - this Being fruitful in every good work. Let's study to fully comprehend the two sides God's first creation of life was in the vegetable This was a life without any will or self-effort; work, the spontaneous outcome of His invisible In the creation of the animal kingdom, there A new element was introduced - thought and In man these elements were united in perfect The absolute dependence of the grass and the beauty was to be the groundwork of our relationship. Nature has nothing but what it receives from Our works are to be fruit, the product of true mark of our God-likeness, the power of to be our own work. As we grasp this concept, we shall see how is consistent with the deepest sense of obligation to the utmost. Scripture: He that abides in me, and I in without me ye can do nothing (John 15:5). We shall learn to study the prayer of our and strength from God alone, and we shall to use that wisdom and strength with the diligence, fruit in every good work. 1. For quality and quantity, much depends on The life of God, of Christ Jesus, of His Spirit, 2. That life is love. Believe in it. Live by it. Have it replenished day by day out of the 3. Let all your work be fruit; let all your willing Then you will walk worthy of the Lord, pleasing of the Lord, pleasing him in everything, being the knowledge of God (Colossians 1:10). Thirteenth Day Therefore, my beloved brothers, be ye steadfast, the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labour - 1 Corinthians 15:58 with its divine revelation of the meaning from it. It gives us a living Savior who revealed Himself heaven. It secures the complete deliverance from all It is the pledge of His final victory over Father, and God is all in all. It assures us of the resurrection of the body Paul had closed his argument with his triumphant where is thy sting? O Hades, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the power of But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory 15:55-57). Then after fifty-seven verses of exultant the resurrection life in our Lord and His Therefore, my beloved brothers, be ye steadfast, the Lord. The faith in a risen, living Christ and in and eternity is to fit us for and prove itself It cannot be otherwise. Christ's resurrection was His final victory work of giving the Spirit from heaven and Those who shared the resurrection joy received It was so with Mary and the other women. It was so with the disciples on the evening Scripture: As my Father has sent me, even It was so with all to whom the charge was the gospel to every creature (Mark 16:15). The resurrection is the beginning and the That victory is to be carried out to its completion The faith and joy of the resurrection life work of doing it. So the call comes to all believers without be ye . . . always abounding in the work of In the work of the Lord. The connection tells us at once what that It is nothing more, nothing less, than telling Christ has brought new life to us. As we know and acknowledge Him as Lord over we shall see that the work of the Lord is and bow to Him. Amid all the lowly, living, patient service, of the life of the risen Lord - to make Him This work of the Lord is not an easy one. It cost Christ His life to conquer sin and It will cost us our life too - the sacrifice We need to surrender all on earth in order newness of life. The power of sin and the world in those around his servants to our efforts. This work needs a heart close to the risen to be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding That is a life that can be lived - because Paul adds: Forasmuch as ye know that your I have often mentioned the mighty influence work exerts on the millions of earth's workers. So, shouldn't Christ's workers believe that great? The work is often difficult and slow and apparently We are apt to lose heart, because we are working Let's listen to the message: Oh ye children unmovable, always abounding in the work of is not in vain in the Lord (1 Corinthians Do not let your hands be weak, for your work You know that your labor is not in vain in In the Lord. This expression is a significant one. Study it in Romans 16 where it occurs seven Jesus, or in Christ - occurs five times. Paul uses the expressions receive her in the also were in Christ, beloved in the Lord, and chosen in the Lord (Romans 16:2-3, 7-8, The whole life, fellowship, and service of labors were in the Lord. Here is the secret of effective service. Your labour is not in vain in the Lord. As we maintain a sense of His presence and in Him, His strength works in our weakness. Our labor cannot be in vain in the Lord, for him, the same brings forth much fruit (John Oh, don't let the children of this world, masters for the work they are doing, put the Let's rejoice and labor in the confident faith be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding that your labour is not in vain in the Lord. Fourteenth Day And God is able to make all grace abound in in all things, may abound to every good work. - 2 Corinthians 9:8 for abounding work - the spirit of triumphant Our text in this chapter assures us that the God is able to make all grace abound that Every thought of abounding grace is to be for which it is given. And every thought of abounding work is to it. Abounding grace has abounding work for its Sometimes we think that grace and good works This is not so. Scripture calls our own works the works of have done. These are dead works - works by which we seek These are indeed the very opposite of grace. But they are also the opposite of the good alone is given. As irreconcilable as the works of the law and indispensable are the works of faith, God makes grace abound that good works may The measure of true grace is tested and proved God's grace abounds in us that we may abound We need to have the truth deeply rooted in its objective. Abounding work needs abounding grace as its Often there is abounding work without abounding Just as any man can be diligent in an earthly of an idol, so men can be diligent in doing little thought of that grace which alone is The grace of God is indispensable for all and truly fruitful, not only for visible results Paul continually speaks of owing everything more abundantly than they all, yet not I, Corinthians 15:10), according to the gift of his power (Ephesians 3:7). And he also calls upon Christians to exercise given to us (Romans 12:6). To each one of us is given grace according 4:7). It is only by the grace of God working in It is only as we seek and receive abounding God is able to make all grace abound in you all things, may abound to every good work. Every Christian should praise God with thanksgiving him, and every Christian should confess that abounding grace has been so defective. Every Christian should believe with confidence possible, because the abounding grace for Then, with simple, childlike dependence, every receive more grace, which He gives to the Child of God, take time to study and comprehend good work. He means it. He has provided for it. Make the measure of your consecration to Him Then claim nothing less than the abounding Make His omnipotence and His faithfulness of continual prayer and dependence upon His This will make you abound in every good work. According to your faith may it be unto you. Christian worker, learn the secret of all To work in our own strength with little prayer cause of failure. The cultivation of the spirit of absolute on God will open the heart for the workings We shall learn to ascribe all we do to God's We shall learn to measure all we have to do And our life will increasingly be in the joy abounding in every good work. 1. That ye . . . may abound to every good work. Pray about this now until you feel that this 2. If your ignorance and weakness appear to make tell Him you are willing to be a branch that you to abound in good works. 3. Take into your heart the precious truth as abound in you. Trust His power and His faithfulness: of God, with unbelief, but was strengthened persuaded that he was also powerful to do (Romans 4:20-21) also do it. (1 Thessalonians 5:24) Begin at once by doing lowly deeds of love. As the little child in the kindergarten - learn Fifteenth Day And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; teachers, for the perfecting of the saints of the body of the Christ. - Ephesians 4:11-12 various gifts on His servants for three reasons. The first was for the perfecting of the saints. As saints, believers are to pursue holiness in all the will of God (Colossians 4:12). Epaphras labored for this in prayer. Paul wrote, whom we preach, warning every present every man perfect in Christ Jesus This perfecting of the saints is, however, of the ministry. It is meant to equip all the saints to take is called. This same word is used in other texts: others and having helped the saints and helping them This is also a means to a higher end: unto As every member of our physical body takes maintenance of the whole, so every member first duty to take part in all that can help And the high purpose of building up is necessary, who are already members or by reaching those Through its pastors and teachers, the great of the saints in holiness and love and fitness in the work of the ministry, so the body of Of the three great objectives for which Christ the work of ministering stands in the middle. On the one side, it is preceded by what it the saints. On the other, it is followed by what it is the Christ. Every believer without exception, every member the work of the ministry. Let every reader try to realize the sacredness Let's learn what the qualification is for The perfecting of the saints prepares us for Lack of true sainthood and true holiness cause As Christ's saints learn that conformity to up in self-sacrifice for the service and salvation the one thing we live for. His humility and love, His separation from very essence and blessedness of the life He of love. This will be what we live for. Humility and love - these are the two great powers for the work of the ministry. Humility makes us willing to serve; love makes Love is inventive; it seeks patiently and its object. Humility and love are equally turned away Let us pray for the church to labor for the and the Holy Spirit will teach us how to minister. Let's look at what the great work is that They must minister to each other. Place yourself at Christ's disposal for service Count yourself their servant. Study their interest. Actively promote the welfare of the Christians Selfishness may hesitate, the feeling of inadequacy difficulties, so ask your Lord to reveal His There are Christians around you who are cold Begin to think about what you can do for them. Accept that the will of the Head is for you Pray for the Spirit of love. Begin somewhere - only begin and do not continue Begin the work of the ministry according to He will give more grace. Let's believe in the power that works in us As I think of the thumb and finger holding that during all these seventy years of my will. It was because the life of the head passed He that believes in me as his Head working (John 14:12). Faith in Christ, whose strength is made perfect we are called to do. Let us cry to God that all believers may awaken of the body is to live wholly for the building 1. To be a true worker, the first thing needed Head - to be guided and empowered by Him. 2. The next is humble, loving fellowship with 3. This prepares and fits us for service in the Sixteenth Day Let us grow up into him in all things, who body fitly joined together and well tied together connecting bond supplies, by the operation received, making increase of the body unto - Ephesians 4:15-16 - the increase and building up of the body. This growth and increase has a double reference. It includes both the spiritual uniting and to secure the health of the whole body, and still outside of the body and are to be gathered In the previous chapter, we saw the mutual to care for each other's welfare. In this chapter, we will look at the growth member of Christ's body to labor in love for This increase and building up of the body part. Think of the body of a child; how does it In no other way but by the growth and working As each member does its part by seeking and is made by building itself up. Not from without, but from within, comes the In no other way can Christ's body attain the As we grow unto Christ the Head, and from is through that which every joint supplies Let's see what this implies. The body of Christ is to consist of all who There is no possible way in which these members the body building itself up in love. Our Lord has made Himself dependent on His What nature teaches us about our own bodies, The head of a child may have thoughts and unless the members all do their part in securing Christ Jesus has committed to His church the As He is the Head and lives for the growth every member of His body, even the weakest, Every believer is to count it his one duty increase of the body, the ingathering of all What is it that is needed to bring the church the members of the body to know and fulfill One thing. We must see that the new birth and faith, and surrender and effort to live according work. What is needed is for Jesus Christ to be formed heart, and His life in us can become the impulse loving one another with brotherly love, with It is because self occupies the heart that for ourselves. When Jesus Christ lives in us, it will be for the body of Christ. As the thumb and fingers respond to the will of Christ's body respond to the Head as the itself. The Head is entirely dependent on the service the world and building up His body. Not only our Lord but also a perishing world and give herself to this work - the perfecting Every believer must learn to know his calling this existence. This great truth will be revealed to us in give ourselves to the work of the ministry We may confidently wait for the full revelation asks of us. Seventeenth Day In like manner also that the women adorn themselves not with ostentatious hair or gold or pearls a widow be placed on the list being not less of one man, having a good testimony of good every good work. - 1 Timothy 2:9-10; 5:9-10 two young pastors to instruct them about their than in Paul's other epistles.3 In writing to the churches in Romans 12, Paul In writing to the pastors, he had to use this aim at both in their own lives and in their A minister was to be prepared for every good and be an example of good works. They were to teach Christians: the women were follow every good work, and be well reported The men were to be rich in good works, zealous and were to be careful and learn to maintain No portion of God's work presses home more works as an essential, vital element in the Our two texts speak of the good works of Christian In the first, they are taught that their adornment pearls or costly clothing but with good works We know what adornment is. A leafless tree in winter has life; when spring rejoices in the adornment of foliage and blossom. The adorning of Christian women is not to works. Christian women should seek good works whether to personal duty and conduct or those works helping of our neighbor. They should more definitely seek the salvation gives true heavenly beauty, and will attract John saw the holy city descend from heaven, husband (Revelation 21:2). The fine linen is the righteousness of the Oh, if only every Christian woman would seek her. In the second passage, we read of widows in of honor and given charge over the younger No one was to be enrolled who did not have Some of these are mentioned: if she had done exercised hospitality to strangers, washed Then this is added: if she has diligently If inside and outside her home, in caring and for the afflicted, her life has been devoted fit to be an example and guide to others. The standard is a high one. It shows us the place good works took in the It shows how a woman's blessed ministry of It shows how, in the development of the Christian as a life given to good works. Good works are an essential part of the Christian of the individual as they are to the welfare And yet, what multitudes of Christian women of blessing others is little more than playing They are waiting for the preaching of a full them to give their lives to work for their as diligently following every good work. The time and money, the thought and heart redeemed to its true purpose. Religion will no longer be a selfish desire Christ, the helper and Savior of the needy. Work for Christ will take its true place as of the Christian life. And as diligence in the pursuits of earth character and worth, diligently following to the highest reward and the fullest joy As Paul said, And whatever ye do, do it heartily, that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward Christ (Colossians 3:23-24). 1.We are beginning to awaken to the wonderful missions. This truth needs to be brought home to every by which they are to attract the world to works. 2.Woman, as the image of the weakness of God, to teach man the beauty and the power of the of love (1 Corinthians 1:25; 2 Corinthians 3.The training for the service of love begins chamber, reaches out to the needy, and finds died. Eighteenth Day Charge those that are rich in this world, in good works, liberal to distribute, willing a good foundation against the future, that - 1 Timothy 6:17-19 adornment, men are to count them as their As good works satisfy woman's eye and taste and power. In the present world, riches have a wonderful diligence, industry, and enterprise. They represent and embody the life-power that In this way they exercise power in the honor Their danger consists in their being of this God and the heavenly treasures. They may become a man's deadliest enemy: How into the kingdom of God (Mark 10:23). The gospel never takes anything away from place. It meets the desire for riches by the command Good works are the coin that is current in the rewards in the world to come will be determined. By abounding in good works, we lay up for Even here on earth, they constitute a treasure the consciousness of being well pleasing to John 3:11-24). There is more. Wealth of gold is not only a symbol of the so opposite in its nature, also a means to Scripture: Charge those that are rich . . . to liberal to distribute, willing to communicate, (1 Timothy 6:17-19). Make friends unto yourselves with the mammon you may be received into eternal dwellings Even as the widow's mite, when given in the an offering with which God is well pleased The man who is rich in money may become rich that Scripture gives. The money must not be given for recognition Nor should it be given as from an owner, but - with prayer for His guidance. Nor should it be given with any confidence on Him who alone can make it a blessing. Neither should it be a substitute for that is to contribute. As in all Christian work, our money-giving it is done - the Spirit of Christ Jesus. What opportunities there are in the world treasures. In relieving the poor, in educating the neglected, to Christians and to heathens in darkness sought to be rich in good works, rich toward We may ask the question, &quot;What can be done true riches?&quot; Men have made a science of the wealth of nations its increase and universal distribution can How can the charge to be rich in good works shall be as much a pleasure and a passion world? All depends upon the nature or the spirit To the earthly nature, earthly riches have To foster the desire to acquire what constitutes to the spiritual nature. That spiritual nature needs to be taught and habits that go into making a man rich. There must be the ambition to rise above the with just being saved. There must be some insight into the beauty of the divine life, God's working in us and glory to God, as the source of life and blessing in heaven for eternity. There must be a faith that these riches are of God are working in us. Then every opportunity of doing the work of of Him who said, It is more blessed to give Study and apply these principles; they will A man who wants to be rich often begins on Begin at once with some work of love and ask sakes he became poor that ye through his poverty 8:9). 1. What causes the request for money for missions Probably the low spiritual state of the church Christians do not understand their calling 2. How can the evil be remedied? Only when believers see and accept their divine concern and with humble confession of their seek the heavenly riches to be found in working 3. Let us never cease to plead and labor for church. Nineteenth Day If a man, therefore, purges himself from these sanctified, and profitable for the master's Timothy 2:21 sure, of the church as the great house built These were not only of gold and silver, costly common and perishable vessels to dishonor. He distinguishes between those who gave themselves and those who sought to depart from all iniquity. In our text, he gives us the four steps for of God. These are the cleansing from sin, sanctification, for every good work. It is not enough that we desire or attempt As we need training and care to prepare us to be prepared unto every good work even more This is what constitutes the chief mark of Purging from vessels of dishonor characterizes the vessels of dishonor, such against which Paul had warned. We insist that every dish and cup we use should In God's house, the vessels must be much cleaner. Everyone who wants to be truly prepared for himself from all that is sin. Christ Himself did not enter upon His saving cleansing of our sins. How can we become partners in His work unless Before Isaiah could say, Here am I; send me, he heard the voice say, thy sin shall be cleansed An intense desire to be cleansed from every Becoming a vessel of honor, sanctified out and removal of all that is impure. Sanctified, the positive side, is the refilling through whom the soul becomes God-possessed Scripture: Let us cleanse ourselves from all and then perfecting holiness in the fear of In the temple, the vessels were not only to to God's service alone. He that desires to truly work for God must in holiness, a holy habit of mind and disposition, His presence, and fit for God's work (1 Thessalonians The cleansing from sin secures the filling Profitable for the master's use In every work we do, it is to be Christ using The sense of being a servant - dependent on eye, instruments used by Him and His mighty That sense of servanthood maintains unbroken Lord can do His work. It retains that blessed consciousness of the to become more humble. His one desire is to be profitable for the Prepared unto every good work This word doesn't refer only to equipment readiness which keeps a man alert and makes of every opportunity of doing his Master's As he lives in touch with his Lord Jesus and vessel, ready for Him to use, good works become He sees how good works are what he was redeemed to be proved. He is prepared unto every good work. 1. Profitable for the master's use is the central The secret of true work involves a personal to His disposal, a dependent waiting to be He will use us. 2. Let the beginning of your work be a giving your living, loving Lord. Twentieth Day Study to show thyself approved unto God, a rightly dividing the word of truth. - 2 Timothy 2:15 and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly - 2 Timothy 3:16-17 one who is not afraid to have the master come In hearty devotion to it, in thoroughness the one who employs him. God's workers are to study to present themselves of Him. They are to be as a workman who doesn't need A workman is one who knows his work, gives doing his work well. He is known as a working man. Every Christian minister and every Christian expects the Master's approval. Rightly dividing the word of truth bread, and light. Workmen in any of these spheres can be our In work for God, everything depends upon rightly Therefore, we see that the personal subjection is the one means of our being completely furnished God's workers must know that Scripture is power of God in it. Inspired is Spirit-breathed - as the life The Spirit in the Word and the Spirit in our As by the power of the Spirit within us, we men. This Word is given for doctrine, the revelation of our sins and mistakes; for correction, be replaced with what is right and good, and of all the knowledge needed to walk before As one yields himself wholly and heartily Word gets mastery of his whole being, he becomes to every good work. He becomes a workman approved of God, who the Word of God. And so the man of God has the double mark Word and his whole work directed by his right Perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good In the previous chapter, we learned how the life makes the worker a vessel profitable good work (2 Timothy 2:21). Here we learn the same lesson - it is the work of reproving and correcting and instructing furnished unto all good works. Completely equipped and ready for every good aim at. If any worker is conscious of how defective furnishing for every good work is to be attained, need to be ashamed suggests the answer. First, he would tell us that he owes his success He gave it his close attention. He left other things to concentrate his efforts He made it a life-study to do his work perfectly. Those who would do Christ's work as a second to sacrifice all for it, will never be complete The second thing he will speak of will be Proficiency only comes through painstaking You may feel as if you don't know how to work. Fear not - all learning begins with ignorance Be of good courage. Won't He who has endowed human nature with with skilled and cunning workmen give His be His fellow workers? Let the necessity that is laid upon you - the the world, and dignify and perfect your life to give immediate and continual study to be good work. Only in doing can we learn to do what is right. Begin working under Christ's training; He your work for Him. 1. The work God is doing and seeking to have 2. In this work, every believer is expected to 3. God wants us to be skilled workmen who give it. 4. God does His work by working in us, inspiring 5. What God asks is a heart and life devoted 6. As God's work is all love, love is the power conquer its object. Twenty-First Day Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us that us unto himself a people of his own, zealous - Titus 2:13-14 has done to make us His own and what He expects In the former, we have a rich and beautiful for us; He redeemed us from all iniquity; a people of his own. He did all this with the one objective that The doctrinal half of this wonderful passage Let's devote our attention to its practical works. Christ expects that we shall be zealots for devoted to their performance. We cannot say this about the feeling most What can be done to cultivate this characteristic? One of the first things that awakens zeal A great need awakens strong desire, stirs energies of our being. This sense of need rallied many to be zealous them. The gospel has robbed this motive of its power. Has it taken away entirely the need for good No, indeed. It has given that urgent need a higher place Christ urgently needs our good works. We are His servants, the members of His body, earth. The work is so great - with the hundreds of can be spared. There are thousands of Christians today who must be attended to, but who have no concept to them. The church must wake up to teach each believer As urgently as Christ needs our good works, Around you are men, women, and children who To see men swept past us in a river stirs Christ has placed His people in a perishing give themselves, heart and soul, to carry Oh, let us sound forth the blessed gospel redeem us for Himself, a people of his own, of good works. A second great element of zeal in work is An apprentice or a student usually begins As he learns to understand and enjoy it, he in its performance. The church must train Christians to believe training to make us skilled workmen, there work of mercy and grace. As physical and mental activity give pleasure the spiritual service of Christ can awaken Then comes the highest motive, the personal the charity of the Christ constrains us (2 The love of Christ for us is the source and Our love for Him becomes the power and the This love, shed abroad in our hearts by the renewed in us by the renewing of the Holy that shows itself as a zeal for good works. The love of Christ becomes the link that unites the practical, into one. Christ's love is seen in that He gave Himself cleansed us for Himself. It made us a people for Him in the bonds of in, received into the heart, and made the Zealous of good works. Let no believer, the youngest or the weakest, It is divine, provided for and assured in Let us accept it as our calling. Let us be sure it is the very nature of the Let us, in opposition to all that nature or part of our redemption - Christ Himself will It is good to be always zealous to do good Twenty-Second Day Admonish them . . . that they be quick unto - Titus 3:1 The word admonish suggests the need for believers in their lives, one of which is their calling A healthy tree spontaneously bears its fruit, in perfect health, Scripture teaches us that teaching and its influence on mind and will For all who have charge of others, the need to teach and train all Christians to be ready This is especially true for young and weak Let's consider some of the chief points of Teach them clearly what good works are in the law and show them how integrity and for Christian character. Teach them how true religion is to be carried daily life. Lead them on to the virtues that Jesus came gentleness, and love. Open up to them the meaning of a life of love, given to think of and care for others. Then carry them on to what is the highest, of men to know and love God. Teach them how essential good works are the salvation that God gives. They are not merely to be done as a token of our faith, or a preparation for heaven. They are all this, but they are a great deal They are the very purpose for which we have good works. They alone are the evidence that man has been as God works and working with God, because In becoming imitators of God and walking and gave Himself for us, we have the very image The works of a man not only reveal his life, and perfect it. Good works are the very essence of the divine Teach them what a rich reward they bring From the poor man who can hardly earn a shilling the thought of the reward for labor has been work. Christ appeals to this feeling when He says, Let Christians understand that there is no of God. Work is invigorating; work is strengthening; Work awakens enthusiasm and calls out a man's In a life of good works, the Christian becomes the life and grace of God to others. Those works bring us into closer union with There is no higher fellowship with God than It brings us into sympathy with Him and His His approval. And, great is the reward on those around us. When others are won to Christ, when the weary, and made partakers of the grace in Christ in which our blessed Lord found His reward. Teach them that each of us can abound in good This is the chief thing. Nothing is so fatal to successful effort as Nothing is a more frequent cause of neglect have the power to perform them. Remind people of the power of the Holy Spirit Show them that God's promise and provision and there is always grace sufficient for all Strive to awaken in them a faith in the power life, which can flow as rivers of living water Train them to begin their service of love Lead them to see that it is God working in as empty vessels to be filled with His love Teach them that as they are faithful in a the living out of the life will strengthen Work for God will become a second nature, May God grant that the teachers of the church to all her members. Admonish them . . . to be quick unto every Don't just teach them but train them. Show them the work is to be done by them; to do it hopefully. No part of the office of a pastor is more blessing than this. Let the purpose be nothing less than to lead the work of God in winning men to Him. What a change it would make in the church 1. Comprehend and understand the great root principle. Every believer, every member of Christ's body, the whole body. 2. Pastors have been given for the perfecting serving in love (Ephesians 4:12). 3. Christ will work mightily if ministers and Twenty-Third Day I desire that thou affirm this constantly, careful to conduct themselves in good works. . . . Let ours also learn to maintain good unfruitful. - Titus 3:8, 14 the truths of the blessed gospel to the end, believed should be careful, should make a works. Faith and good works were to be inseparable; was to be a main emphasis of a pastor's work. In the second passage, he reiterates the instruction This suggests that just as all work on earth Christian life need to be thought about, applied, More than one reader of this little book may to all the teaching of God's Word - prepared, for good works. It appears difficult to get rid of old habits, society, to know how to enter upon a life Let me try to give some helpful suggestions. They may also aid those who train Christian of good works may succeed. Come, young workers all, and listen. 1. A learner must begin by working at once. There is no way to learn an art like swimming by practice. Don't let the fear that you cannot do it or back. Learn to do good works, the works of love, However insignificant they appear, do them. Practice giving - a kind word, a little help to a stranger or a poor man, or the sacrifice All plants we cultivate are small at first. Cherish the consciousness that for Jesus' Him. It is only in doing that you can learn to 2. The learner must give his heart to the work Delight in work ensures success. Let the tens of thousands around you in the daily business teach you how to serve your Think of the honor and privilege of doing It is God's work to love, save, and bless He works in you and through you. It makes you share the Spirit and likeness It strengthens your Christian character. Without actions, intentions diminish and condemn Only as much as you work, do you really live. Think of the godlike blessedness of doing Think of the exquisite joy of growing up into of all you meet. Set your heart upon being a vessel profitable 3. Be of good courage and fear not. The learner who says, &quot;I cannot,&quot; will surely A divine power is working in you. Study and believe what God's Word says about Let the holy self-reliance of the apostle be your example. Scripture: I can do all things through Christ Study and secure the wonderful promises about of grace, and Christ's strength made perfect See how all this can be made true to you only Cultivate the noble consciousness that as God, He will equip you for them. Believe that just as natural as it is for profession, it can also be a delight to the work. Having this confidence, you need never faint. 4. Above all, cling to your Lord Jesus as your He said, learn of me, for I am meek and humble souls (Matthew 11:29). Work as one who is a student in His school, and is therefore confident of success. Cling to Him and let a sense of His presence and lowly, and yet bold and strong. He who came to do the Father's work on earth glory will teach you what it is to work for In summary, for the sake of any who want to 1. Yield yourself to Christ. Lay yourself on the altar and tell Him you work. 2. Believe quietly that Christ accepts and takes you for it. 3. Pray that God will open the great truth of Nothing else can give true strength. 4. Seek to cultivate a spirit of humble, patient, Live in loving fellowship with Christ and You can count upon His strength being made Twenty-Fourth Day For we are labourers together with God; ye - 1 Corinthians 3:9 you also that ye have not received the grace - 2 Corinthians 6:1 teaching on good works; let us turn now to some of the secrets of effective service. Paul speaks in 2 Corinthians of the church He is building a holy temple and dwelling Of his own work, Paul speaks of himself as building has been given to his charge. Scripture: According to the grace of God which I have laid the foundation, and another builds He had laid a foundation in Corinth; to all one see how the building is built (1 Corinthians We are God's fellow workers. This phrase is applicable not only to Paul in His work. Because every believer has been called to to His knowledge, every Christian needs to We are God's fellow workers. We are labourers together with God. This suggests so much in regard to our working The work we have to do Christ Jesus, God's Son, is the foundation; The Holy Spirit is the mighty power of God the world and made fit for their work in the They are built up into it. As living stones, believers are at the same out His work. They are equally God's workmanship and God's The work God is doing He does through them. The work they have to do is the very work God's own work, in which He delights, on which them into His temple. This is the one work on which the heart of with God must be set. It is only as we know how great and how wonderful souls, imparting His own life to them, and of our work, receive the very life of God, The strength for the work was according to the grace of God which was For divine work, nothing but divine power The power by which God works must work in That power is His Holy Spirit. Study to see how absolute was Paul's acknowledgment the teaching and power of the Holy Spirit. As this great truth lives in the hearts of done by God's power in us - we shall feel presence of God's Spirit renewed within us. The power of the Holy Spirit is the power God is love. All His works for the salvation of men is the heart. In all God's fellow workers, love is the power Christ conquered and still conquers by the Let that mind be in you, oh worker, which that sacrifices itself to death - a humble, profitable to be God's fellow worker. Our relationship with God the master builder has but one care - to carry the architect who designed it. He acts in constant consultation with him, to those under him all reference the one thing the mastermind has conceived. The great characteristics of fellow workers to His will, unceasing dependence on His teaching, God has revealed His plan in His Word. He has told us that His Spirit alone can enable His purpose the way He desires to have it The clearer our insight into the divine glory recognize our utter insufficiency to do the But with the provision of the divine love, strengthen us for the work. When we recognize a childlike teachableness, God will be our chief mark as one who is His Out of the sense of humility, helplessness, and courage that knows that our weakness doesn't is made perfect in our weakness, and that us. Of all the blessings of the Christian life, to be God's fellow workers. 1. God's fellow worker! How easy to use the word and even comprehend how little we live in the power and the glory 2. Fellow laborers with God! Everything depends upon knowing the God, in as partners. 3. He who has chosen us to do His great work 4. Let our attitude be one of adoring worship, Twenty-Fifth Day Whom we preach, warning every man and teaching perfect in Christ Jesus, in which I continue which he works in me mightily. - Colossians 1:28-29 I was made a minister, according to the gift of his power. - Ephesians 3:4, 7 we considered in chapter 9 where he called it was God who worked in them, we found one great truth that it is only by God's working In our texts for this chapter, we have Paul's His whole ministry was by means of the grace of God's power. He said his labor was a striving, which corresponded him. We find the same principle here that we found him. Let every worker who reads this pause and Paul could only do their work through the how much more do I need this working of God This is one of the deepest spiritual truths Let's look to the Holy Spirit within us to the deepest inspiration of all our work. I can only do true work as I yield myself We know the ground on which this truth rests: 10:18); there is none holy as the LORD (1 62:11). All goodness and holiness and power are only He can give them to the created, not as something dwelling, and working. God can only work in His people as He is allowed life. As our will and life and love are yielded on to take possession and abide even as Christ This is true of all our spiritual life, but The work of saving souls is God's own work; The gift of His Son is the proof of how great heart is set upon it. His love never for one moment ceases working And when He calls His children to be partners the glory of the work of saving and blessing He promises to work His work through them, working in them. To the one who can say with Paul, I labour, he works in me mightily, his whole relationship of Christ's relationship to God - a blessed, the Father for every word spoken and every Christ is our pattern. Christ's life is our law and works in us. Christ lived his life of dependence on God Why should any of us hesitate to believe that according to the working of the power will Let every worker learn to say, &quot;As the power that power works no less in me.&quot; There is no possible way of working God's us. How I wish that I could take every worker my brother, let's quiet our minds and hush in your ears the wonderful secret: God is All the work you have to do for Him, God will Take time and think it over. It is a deep spiritual truth, which the mind Accept it as a divine truth from heaven; believe blessing can grow. Believing the Holy Spirit makes it live within All the work I have to work for Him, God will Believing this truth and desiring to have live humbly and closely with God. You will see that work for God is the most And you will bow in holy stillness: God is for Him according to the power that works 1. The gift of the grace of God (Ephesians 3:7), the strengthening with might by his Spirit all contain the same thought of God working 2. The Holy Spirit is the power of God. Seek to be filled with the Spirit and to have fit for God working mightily in you. 3. Ye shall receive the virtue of the Holy Spirit With the Spirit dwelling in us, God can work 4. What holy fear, what humble watchfulness and become ours if we believe in God's working Twenty-Sixth Day By the grace of God I am what I am; and his more abundantly than they all, yet not I, - 1 Corinthians 15:10 for thee; for my strength is made perfect . . . in nothing am I behind the grandiose - 2 Corinthians 12:9, 11 how he had abounded in the work of the Lord. Scripture: In nothing am I behind the grandiose I laboured more abundantly than they all. He tells how it was all of God who worked In the first he says, Yet not I, but the grace And then in the second, showing how this grace are nothing, he tells us, He said unto me, is made perfect in weakness. May God give us the spirit of wisdom and revelation eyes of your understanding to see this wonderful and glories in his weakness (Ephesians 1:17-18). He does this so the power of Christ may rest more abundantly than all. What does this teach us as workers for God? God's work can only be done in God's strength can we do effective work. Throughout this book, this truth has been It is easy to accept it; it is far from easy over our whole being, and to live it out. This requires stillness of soul, meditation, As it is God alone who can work in us, it as the God who works in us. Wait on Him, and the truth that appears to you through the knowledge of who and what When God reveals Himself as the God who works pleasure (Philippians 2:13), you will learn which he works in me mightily (Colossians God's strength can only work in weakness we can fully say, but the grace of God which The man who said, in nothing am I behind the though I am nothing. He could say, I am content in weaknesses, in distresses for Christ's sake, for when 12:10). This is the true relationship between the Father and His child, between God and His Christian worker, learn the lesson of your of God's power working in you. Believe that to take time in God's presence the sure way to be clothed with God's strength. Accept every experience by which God teaches to receive His strength. Take pleasure in weaknesses. God's strength comes in our fellowship with Paul says, I will rather glory in my weaknesses Therefore I am content in weaknesses, . . . for And he tells how he besought the Lord three be taken from me, but God answered, My grace Christ is the power of God, and the wisdom We do not receive the wisdom to know or the can possess and use at our discretion. Only in the personal attachment to Christ Him, can His power rest on us. It is in taking pleasure in weaknesses for God's strength abounds in the work that is It takes a living faith to find pleasure in knowing that God is working in us. Without seeing or feeling anything, to continue in us is the highest exercise of a life of To do God's work in saving souls, and persevere and appearances persist, requires faith. Let us be strong in faith and give glory to God will show Himself strong towards him whose My brother, be willing to yield yourself to rest upon you and work in you. Let God work through you. Offer yourself to Him for His work as the Count upon His working everything in you to and bless you in it. Let the faith and love of your Lord Jesus, in your weakness, lead you to live as He lived 1. Let every minister seek the full personal in his weakness; this alone will fit him to 2. Our Lord said, My grace . . . my strength. As we abide in close personal fellowship and in us, His grace and strength can work. 3. A heart wholly given up to God, to His will weakness. Twenty-Seventh Day Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, But whosoever has looked attentively into in it, not being a forgetful hearer, but a in their deed. - James 1:22, 25 He created us in His own image, and in Him True action is born from contemplation. True contemplation, as a means to an end, If sin had not entered the world, there never and doing. In nothing is the power of sin more clearly there is a gap between intellect and conduct. We can delight in hearing and be diligent we can admire and approve the truth and even the actual performance. Hence the warning of James not to deceive Therefore, he pronounces the doer who works Blessed in their deed of our Lord Jesus at the close of the Sermon into the kingdom of the heavens, but he that heavens (Matthew 7:21). Whosoever hears these words of mine and does (Matthew 7:24). To the woman who spoke of the blessedness those that hear the word of God and keep it To the disciples in the last night, He said, if ye do them (John 13:17). One of the greatest dangers in religion is approval that a beautiful representation of of what it demands. Only when conviction has been translated into mastering us. A doer of the work, . . . shall be blessed The doer is blessed. The doing is the victory that overcomes every very image of God, the Great Worker; it removes blessing God has prepared. We are always inclined to seek our blessedness but Christ placed it in what we do, because know and possess the life God has bestowed When one said, Blessed is he that shall eat with, none of those men which were called If anyone come to me and does not hate . . . his 14:15, 24, 26). The doer is blessed. As surely as it is only in doing that the commerce, the discoverer or the conqueror keeping the commandments and in doing the into the truth and blessedness of deliverance Doing is the very essence of blessedness, fullest enjoyment of the life of God. Blessed if ye do them read, Dost thou not see how the faith worked complete by the works? (James 2:22). He had no works without faith; there was faith And he had no faith without works; through and perfected. As his faith, so his blessedness was perfected It is in doing that the doer who works is The true insight into this is that a divine in perfect harmony with all our experience every truth, and every opportunity to abound of the salvation that Christ has brought us. Joy and work, work and joy, will become synonymous; Let's put this truth into immediate practice. Let's live for others; let's love and serve Don't let the fact of being unaccustomed to unfitness keep us back. Only begin. If you think you are not able to labor for Only begin, and continue, and abound. Believe the Word: It is more blessed to give Pray for and depend on the promised grace. Give yourself to a ministry of love; in the and in the promise of God, you have this assurance: if ye do them (John 13:17). Blessed is the doer. Twenty-Eighth Day Brethren, if any of you have erred from the that one know, that whosoever causes the sinner save a soul from death and shall cover a multitude - James 5:19-20 converted and saved by men. Scripture uses the expression twice here of him. Let's not hesitate to accept it as part of God, to convert and to save men. Scripture: For it is God who works in you Shall save a soul from death he works: the carpenter the wood, the goldsmith Our works are wrought in God (John 3:21). In our good works, we deal with souls. Even when first we can do no more than reach For these Christ came to die. For these God has appointed us to watch and Let's study these. What care a hunter or a fisherman takes to Let's remember that one needs divine wisdom, souls. The only way to get that training and skill teach each one who waits on Him. In that training, the church with its ministers The daily experience of ordinary life and powers in a man; these must be called out When a man becomes conscious and master of and enjoyment of life is doubled. Every believer has the power hidden within The kingdom of heaven is like a seed within of the spirit are also a hidden seed. The highest objective of the ministry is to of power to save souls. A depressing sense of ignorance or inability James writes, let that one know, that whosoever a soul from death. Every believer needs to be taught to know he has been endowed. When God said to Abraham, in thy seed shall He called him to a faith not only in the blessing in the power of the blessing he would be in It is a wonderful moment in the life of a blessing is as sure as the first. He shall save a soul He is the embodiment of God's saving love. Saving souls is His own great work and His As our faith in Him grows to know and receive dwells in our heart and disposition, saving We shall be the willing and intelligent instruments Whosoever causes the sinner to convert We usually think of large gatherings where of one who has erred, and another seeks. We increasingly do our work through associations Whosoever causes the sinner to convert . . . shall believer has won the erring one back. We need this in the church of Christ, we need to be looking out for those who are erring help them back. Not one of us may say, Am I my brother's keeper? (Genesis 4:9). We are in the world as the members of Christ's saving work. As saving souls was and is His work, His joy, too. Let me give myself personally to watch over Scripture: Let that one know, that whosoever a soul . . . If ye know these things, ye shall 13:17). Let me translate these Scripture truths into substance in daily life; let me prove their Isn't there more than one Christian around loving help? Someone who is willing to receive it? Aren't there some I could take by the hand Aren't there many who have never been in the me if I were truly at His disposal? If I feel afraid, oh, let me believe that not only calling but also enabling me to do Let me yield myself to the Holy Spirit to service. Jesus the Savior lives to save; He dwells me. Let that one know, that whosoever causes the from death and shall cover a multitude of 1. More love for souls, born out of fervent love need? 2. Let us pray for love and begin to love in the little we have. 3. Lord, open our eyes to see You doing Your Your love and strength to the heart of every Make each one of Your redeemed a soul winner. Twenty-Ninth Day If any man see his brother sin a sin which shall give him life that is, unto those that - 1 John 5:16 charity and unto good works (Hebrews 10:24). These words in the book of Hebrews express works - the thoughtful, loving care we have It's written in Galatians: Even if anyone restore such a one in the spirit of meekness And Jude writes, apparently of Christians some with mercy, discerning; And others save 1:22-23). As Christ's healing of men's bodies was always of love must be secondary to that which is of men unto life eternal. In this labor of love, praying and working At times prayer may reach those whom the words Sometimes prayer is primarily needed for ourselves Other times it may be especially necessary from our words. As a rule, praying and working must be inseparable for the soul and the working to bring to the The words of John here are most suggestive love. It leads us to think of prayer as a personal certainty of an answer. Let prayer be a personal effort. If any man see his brother . . . he shall We are so accustomed to work through societies losing sight of our own duty to watch over Every member of my body is ready to serve Every believer is to care for the fellow believers house, or social circle. The sin of each is a loss and a hurt to the Let your eyes be open to the sins of your judge or helplessly complain, but to love, Ask God to see your brother's sin in its sinfulness, its loss to the body, but also as within reach Shutting our eyes to the sin of our brothers See it and take it to God; make it part of and seek new life for him. Let prayer be definite. If any man see his brother sin . . . he shall We need prayer from one person for another Scripture and God's Spirit teach us to pray nations, and for special spheres of work. This is most needful and blessed, but more us, one by one, and make them the subjects The larger supplications have their place, are answered. There is nothing that will bring God as near, faith as much, and make us know we are fellow to our prayers for individuals. These answers quicken in us the new and blessed Let every worker seek to exercise this grace Expect an answer. Scripture: He shall ask God, and he shall not sin unto death (1 John 5:16). These words follow those where John had spoken that, if we ask any thing according to his People often complain about not knowing God's But here there is no difficulty. He desires that all men be saved (1 Timothy If we rest our faith on this will of God, He shall ask God, and he shall give him life The Holy Spirit will lead us if we yield ourselves us take as our special care and for whom the be given to us. Claim the wonderful promise that God will not sin unto death. He will stir us and encourage us in our ministry of the most blessed among the good works in Praying and working are inseparable. Let all who work learn to pray well. Let all who pray learn to work well. 1. To pray confidently and perseveringly for God and the faith that we can prevail with 2. In all our work for God, prayer must take If God is to work all, if our attitude is to work in us, and if it takes time to persevere for others, there needs to be a work and a 3. Oh, that God would open our eyes to the glory God lives for and as the one thing He wants 4. Let us pray for the love and power of God winning. Thirtieth Day Unto the angel of the congregation of Ephesus Philadelphia . . . of the Laodiceans write; - Revelation 2:1, 18; 3:1, 7, 14-15 These are the words of Him who walks in the 2:1), and his eyes were as a flame of fire As He looks upon the churches, the first thing The works are the revelation of the life and If we are willing to bring our works into what our work ought to be. To Ephesus He says, I know thy works and thy not bear those who are evil; and thou hast are not and hast found them liars, and hast sake hast laboured and hast not fainted. Nevertheless I have against thee that thou . . . repent and do the first works (Revelation There was much to praise here - labor, patience, was one thing lacking - the tenderness of In His work for us, Christ gave us His love tender affection of His heart. In our work for Him, He asks nothing less. There is such a danger of work being carried while the freshness of our love has passed And that is what Christ seeks. That is what gives power. That is what nothing can compensate for. Christ looks for the warm, loving heart, the center of our love and joy. Christian workers, be sure that all your work to Christ Jesus. To Thyatira He says, I have known thy works patience and thy works and the last to be Notwithstanding I have a few things against (who calls herself a prophetess) to teach Here again the works are enumerated and praised; But then there is one failure: a false tolerance Then He adds His judgments: the congregations kidneys and hearts, and I will give unto each 2:23). Along with good works, there may have been the whole church. In Ephesus there was zeal for orthodoxy but but a lack of faithfulness against error. If good works are to please our Lord, our and be completely separate from the world We must seek to be what He promised to make Our work will decide our estimate in His judgment. To Sardis He says, I know thy works, that dead. Be watchful, and strengthen the things which not found thy works perfect before God (Revelation There might be forms of godliness without without life. There may be many works, but He may say, I none can stand the test and be acceptable In Ephesus, works lacked in love; in Thyatira, life. To Philadelphia He says, I know thy works; and hast kept my word and hast not denied . . . Because thou hast kept the word of my 3:8, 10). On earth Jesus had said, He that has my commandments who loves me will keep my words, and my Father Philadelphia, the church for which there is and the law of all its work was that it kept but also in practical obedience. Let nothing less be the mark and spirit of He will reward full, loving conformity to To Laodicea He says, I know thy works, that wert cold or hot. Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased 3:15, 17). There is not a church without works and religious religion - lukewarmness and its natural accompaniment, worth. It not only teaches us the need for a fresh poverty of spirit from which the absolute will grow; it will no longer leave Christ in the heart. I know thy works. He who tested the works of the seven churches He is ready in His love to discover what is and to teach us the path in which our works Let us learn from Ephesus the lesson of fervent and separation from all evil; from Sardis, from Philadelphia, the keeping of His Word, possesses the kingdom of heaven and gives Workers! Let us live and work in Christ's presence. He will teach, correct, and help us, and one works because they were His works in us. Thirty-First Day If anyone ministers, let them do it according all things may be glorified through Jesus, for ever and ever. Amen. - 1 Peter 4:11 KJV Its value consists in the objective it attains. The purpose of him who commands or performs The clearer a man's insight into the purpose, of the more advanced parts of the work. In the construction of some splendid building, be as a hired hand to earn his wages. The trained stonecutter has a greater objective; the work he does. The master mason has a wider range of thought; and good. The contractor for the whole building has correspond perfectly to the plan he must follow. The architect has had a still higher purpose might find their full expression in material With the owner, we find the end - the use building as a gift for the benefit of his All who have worked on the building honestly The deeper the insight and the keener the important the share in the work and the greater Peter tells us what our purpose should be things may be glorified through Jesus Christ. In the work of God, a work not done for wages a share in God's plans and an insight into That purpose is nothing less than this: that This is the one purpose of God, the Great all work - that the glory of His love and This is the one purpose of Christ, the Great and leader of all our work. This is the great purpose of the Holy Spirit, the ability which God giveth. As this becomes our deliberate, intelligent and lift us into living fellowship with God. That God in all things may be glorified. What does this mean? The glory of God is that He alone is the Living alone, because His life is love; His life The glory of God is that He is the only, ever-flowing and that His creatures can have all this only His working all in each one is His glory. And the only glory His creature, His child, to give, yielding to Him to let Him work, Thus, God shows His glory in us; in our willing that He does all, we glorify Him. In this way, our life and work are glorified, that God in all things may be glorified, for See how the Spirit exalts and consecrates serves (in ministering to the saints or the God supplies (1 Peter 4:11 ESV). Let me cultivate a deep conviction that God's only be done in God's strength by the power Let me believe firmly and unceasingly that from on high for all work to be done for God Let me in my Christian work fear nothing so and so losing the one thing needful in my Let me rejoice in the weakness that renders prayer for His power to take full possession. Let him serve by the strength that God supplies-in through Jesus Christ. The more you depend on God alone for your The more you seek to make God's purpose your to His working and His strength and love. Oh, that even the weakest worker might see glory to life, what a new urgency and joy has mastered us - that in all things God may 1. The glory of God as Creator was seen in His The glory of God as Redeemer is seen in the them to Himself. 2. This glory is the glory of His holy love that place. 3. The only glory we can bring to God is to yield Him to take possession of us, to fill us with through us. 4. Let this be the one purpose of our lives - to strength that God supplies and winning souls 5. Lord, teach us to serve in the strength which be glorified through Jesus Christ, for the Amen. Scripture: Let your light so shine before glorify your Father who is in the heavens. - Matthew 5:16 Andrew Murray - A Brief Biography (Note for biography from Waiting on God). Andrew Murray had a rich religious ancestry. His grandfather (Andrew) left the occupation flour mills of Scotland. He was a godly man, and his deathbed prayers of the ministry. John became an ordained minister in Scotland. John's younger brother, Andrew, became licensed by the Presbytery of Aberdeen. He became a missionary with the Dutch Reformed While in South Africa, Andrew met the woman Stegmann. She was of German ancestry, and her great-grandfather France when the Edict of Nantes, which had liberty, was revoked. Andrew and Susanna's first son was named John, of this brief biography and the author of Andrew Murray was born in South Africa on His father often read stories of revivals When Andrew was ten years old, he and his They stayed with their uncle John, the Scottish In 1840, William Burns, the revivalist, spoke He stayed with their uncle John while there, impassioned prayers for revival and the salvation Andrew and John went on to attend Marischal seventeen years old, from which they graduated From there they studied theology and refreshed of Utrecht in Holland. Rationalism was popular then. Mr. Murray in South Africa had written to In a letter to his sons, dated April 23, 1845, among the students, and even by professors, you, but be cautious in receiving them, by be supported. Try to act like the noble Bereans (Acts 17:11). By studying your Bibles and your own hearts Spirit, you will be led into all truth. . . . Whatever books may be recommended to Holy Scriptures. This must be a daily exercise, and must be for the guidance of the Holy Spirit.&quot; Reminiscent of George Whitefield and the Wesleys brothers joined a similar group at the University It was called Sechor Dabar (Remember the Word), of the subjects required for the ministerial The members of this group were often mocked, On May 9, 1848, John and Andrew Murray were Reformed Church, and they returned to South At the age of twenty-one, Andrew was given in a 50,000 square-mile territory in remote For weeks at a time, Andrew would ride on farmers. Andrew married Emma Rutherford, the daughter They had eight children together - four boys In 1860, Andrew Murray accepted the pastorate they heard some speakers tell stories of revivals Murray and others prayed earnestly for revival, not as Murray had expected. He became increasingly interested in sanctification movement.&quot; Andrew Murray became the pastor of a church in Wellington in 1877. Also in 1877, Murray traveled to the United Sunday schools, Moody's revivals, and the Murray also attended the Presbyterian Council the land, including visits to Holland and Murray returned to South Africa where he became and in training people for ministry. Murray's speaking schedule over the past few time in his life. His voice toward the end of 1879 began to for about two years, where he was not often He would write out his message at times, and Andrew tried visiting various doctors, traveling did not improve. He did spend more time studying and writing, After finding only temporary and inadequate more about healing by faith. In 1881, Murray was in London. He had wanted to be able to go to Switzerland life and who was now the head of an institute Murray learned that this man, Otto Stockmaier, They met together and discussed biblical passages Stockmaier urged Murray to attend the meetings on the topic of healing by faith and who then Murray visited the institute and remained He was taught that healing by faith was not to holiness and a life of consecration to Murray's voice improved, and he wrote and He did occasionally have less serious voice not to place such an emphasis on healing by study certainly caused him to believe in the for the rest of his life. Andrew Murray continued writing and speaking. He was a speaker at the famous annual holiness He was chosen to be the moderator of his church He wrote over 200 books and pamphlets, many His books include Absolute Surrender, Humility, The School of Obedience, Waiting on God, The Christ in the School of Prayer, The Two Covenants Andrew Murray spent his last moments on earth He passed from this life on January 18, 1917,