I have got a ticket for a play. And I have come to Dinanath Natyagruha for Because Leena Tai and Mangesh Dada's play It's name is 'Ivlasa Ropta'. I have booked the tickets. The others should book the tickets. We will tell you about the play in this And we have come to Dinanath Natyagruha in Parle. And I was wondering what will happen We are going to eat. So we are going to eat. And today we will see what all can be Mangesh has never taken me on a date like this Like let's go out to eat, never. And I love to eat. Then it's best. Today we have a date to Yes, a date to eat in Parle. So come. So this is right next to Dinanath Natyagruha. Right next to it. Geeta. I have heard that your fried misal is And what do you call it? And corn patties Corn patties. So what is this place? Actually, I am emotionally attached to Because right next to Dinanath Natygruha. Yes. Geeta. After the play is over, I come down. And I am asked how was the play? Even if it is 500 times, I have to talk about it. About how the play was. And we get tea from this window. Oh yes. We rarely come and sit here. Yes. But someone from here gets our call. And the cutting tea come from the window. They come and go. Now let's see how our Misal is. Fried Misal, right? Look at the colour of this misal. It has a mutton colour. You know what, I'm not worried about this because I don't have to go and act in a play. So I don't eat it because I have to go to act in a play. And it's an actor's saying that oily food I have a perfect person on me today. Let's try the misal alone. It is hot. It's nice. I've eaten misal but this is the driest And I haven't seen black peas in misal It's black peas. It must have a lot of garam masala in it. That's why the colour... It's not like you mix farsan on top of it. They have already done it. It was fun to eat. This is their tarri. I don't want tarri. What if it's spicy? I'll try it. It's a soft pav. It got smaller. Soft pav. Soft pav. Let's try the actual misal pav. I just used to drink tea. I had never had misal And this misal is famous. Fried misal. Yes. Usually, fried misal is not available. It's fried but it's not oily. No, it's not. They have taken the whole mixture, put it They have also put farsan and fried it. Generally, we make a curry. And we add any spice in the curry, They have fried the spice, farsan and It's a very nice taste. So, how much is it? 120, right? Yes, it's Rs. 120. So, it can cost up to Rs. 620. Ticket for the play is Rs. 500. Nice. You have to come down after watching the And this misal is for Rs. 120. It's such a beautiful and money saving day for And I think I will definitely give this Yes. When you come here, definitely try it. Definitely. Now let's try. Yes. Shall we cut it in half? Yes, cut it in half. Have you eaten this before? Yes, I have. It is made of patato and corn. The price of this is also Rs. 120. Curry leaves taste so good. When we try a fast kachori, it has a sweet The cover is like that of kachori but the It's interesting that it's not salty. Chutney is fresh. It's not watery. We'll give this item a thumbs up. If it was crispy on the outside and less So, the 'Bha2Pa was here' sticker is on it. If you come here and eat it, click a If we walk straight from Dinanath, This is the Phadke Udyog Mandir. I am having fun reading the name. Kaju Sangam, Kaju Pedha, Amba Barfi, Earlier we had spicy food. We were thinking if Yes, should we really eat this? Now we want to eat all of it. My father owns this shop. What's your favourite? Pistachio. I've also heard about it. Let's do a tasting of everything. What do you think? Yes. I asked and she is ready. Can you give us a taste of everything? The platter is here. This sweet platter is so fun. This is gulkand. I'll take the big one. It's not too sweet. It's nice. Gulkand is nice. The dry fruits of gulkand are also nice. When I had the pista, I could taste the essence. But this is not essence. It has a nice flavour. Yes, it has a proper flavour. It's not irritating. It doesn't taste like sugar. I like this better. This is bottle gourd. It's my favourite. Let's taste it. You taste it first. Then tell me if I guessed it right. It's natural. I like the gulkand best. It's at the top. What's this? It's orange. The saffron is not too strong. You can feel that there is saffron. Gulkand doesn't have any competition. Gulkand is the best. You are having fun eating sweets. I have a sweet tooth. When I am at shoots, I get my own tiffin. Breakfast, lunch, dinner. Not dinner exactly, Even what I meet in the evening, I make at home. I make ghee, sugar and roti a ghee, keemva moramba, keemva morawda. I can't name them all. (Both laugh) You're talking about sweets. I can see it in your eyes. I enjoy it. I feel good. Now I'll eat sweets. Have you eaten sweets before? You're the only one who knows. (Both laugh) Our audience knows. She's a hardcore fan. This is jaifal ped. I call it vaifal. But I call it jaifal for the first time. It's jaifal ped. It's a combination of jaggery and milk. It's a jaifal combination. I got a mark. It's nice. I liked jaifal. I liked gulkand. It's a jaifal combination. Till now, I liked gulkand. We liked gulkand. For gulkand burfi, we get golden thumbs up. Wow! This is the first golden thumbs up of this We have put golden thumbs up. If you come here, you should try our special gulkand burfi. Enjoy it. We'll leave now. Let's have something spicy. Let's go. So Leena, this is the famous Babu's vadapav. I've heard a lot of stories about it. I'll order the vadapav first. Then we'll talk about the stories. Wow! Thank you so much. You have had 1/2 tea but have you We'll do it for you. And they've cut the Vada nicely, so you properly dissect how the Vada Pav is. Yes, you're right. You can see the chutney here, the red It's a green chutney. After eating, we'll know if it's a mix of green Yes. And it's a red garlic chutney. And I like the coriander in the It's good to have a bhaji like this in a And you know what's funny? This is my way of making it. I don't like the smell of turmeric. See this bhaji, there's very less And it's not yellowish at all. I like the crunchiness of the vada. Yes. So this 'Babu Vadapav' and I, we have had Oh! Yes. I had done a play in 2014 called 'Ghoshta So in that play, a 'Babu Vadapav' was Yes, so if you're told to eat 'Babu Vadapav', you have to eat 'Babu Vadapav'. That's how it was mentioned in the play. There were 400 shows for that play. Out of those 400, at least 75 shows had So, in all of those 75 shows, the mention of Oh! Yes. So me, Adwait, Mangesh and Shashank, we was not for a writer, director or This applause was for 'Babu VadaPav'. So, the Vadpav had more fan following than the actor. I had heard a lot about it. I have some So when they were in school, they had to When it was Marathi medium. Yes. So they made it into English medium. And then the vadapav shop came outside. And then they parked the Vadapav' car Oh! It used to be called the window Vadapav It's not spicy. It's not oily. It's crispy. In that, the spiciness of ginger and chillies is more. In that, the spiciness of ginger is balanced. For 'Babu's Vada Pav', I will give a It's definitely a good vadapav'. If you come here... Definitely eat it. This vadapav' is there since 1964. Yes. People are eating it because it must And they are clapping too. So we will go to the next place. Before that, we are just chatting and We are not asking you to subscribe. Please ask them to subscribe. So Bha2Pa's house has a sticker. If you please click a picture and post it on our And yes, there is a scanner here. Scan it So this is Gokul Tea and Cold Drink House. Yes. And people say that they have come And if you from Parle, and you then you are not a real 'Parlekar.' You can't claim that you are a 'Parlekar' Your viens need tea not blood. Let's go, let's go. Let's go. Please give us your tea. I wanted to ask you that Leena, you are from my contact, who has done who has done serials, who is now doing As an actress, does Leena change No, I don't. No, I mean, the foundation of all this is I mean, I have two such people, if I may Mangesh is played by Sachin Tendulkar. And I am played by Virender Sehwag. Starting from the first ball. When he comes, he hits. And Mangesh This ball should be hit like this, here. This is a cover drive. It is a stright drive. So recently, when our 'Ivalese Rop' he says, Bapu is the name of his so he says, &quot;Bhanu, I made a mistake.&quot; So I say, &quot;A mistake?&quot; So he says, &quot;A big mistake.&quot; So I say, &quot;A big mistake.&quot; So he says, &quot;Yes, I created a problem. I mean, you can say I made a mistake.&quot; It's a hilarious scene. And in the recent show, he said, &quot;Bhanu, I made a mistake.&quot; So I said, &quot;A mistake?&quot; So he said, &quot;A big mistake.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, a big mistake?&quot; So I started looking at him telling him Say &quot;I have created a problem.&quot; So he was standing far away I didn't understand what had happened. So I crazily asked, Did you create a problem or something? Yes. Yes. He told me that he remembered not 'bhangad'. When I was taking the entry for the next He said yes. He went. &quot;I made a mistake.'' So I said, &quot;A mistake?&quot; Then he stopped again. So he said that he But forgot to say, &quot;A big mistake.&quot; Oh shit! That was so good! You know what? It lasts for a second but I was like, &quot;Mangesh!&quot; While talking, you must have realized that Yes, it's empty. And I feel like... I drink Amrutatulya. teas these days and they taste so sweet, And I find this tea to be less sweet and And the ginger is just right. So this tea is for Rs. 10 and I really liked it. So I give it a thumbs up. So if you want to come here and do such You can have tea from here. Yes. So everyone told our viewers to go to Okay. And fulfill your want of chat. I find it funny that even after coming to Parle so many times, I haven't come to a place So do watch the Bha2pa episodes. And subscribe to it. Then you'll know what to eat and where. Their Chole Pattice are very famous here. So let's order that from them. Okay. In November, there is raw mango on top of It's still raw, right? Yes, it's still raw. Raw mango has arrived in November. The mango is nice. Let's go. It's not very spicy. Not at all. I can't taste it. If it was hot, it would have been nice. Yes. But he heated it up and gave it to us. I don't know why. I don't like it. Actually, I have eaten this kind of hot Oh, Indore. I want to go to Indore. Do it, do it. Do it fast. I think I will have to stay here for a Yes, yes. I will have to stay here for a month. Just when you enter, There is a big pan They fry the potato pattice on it. Yes. And they heat it. The colour is not red. It's a little dark. I liked the pattice. The best thing was the raw mango. Yes. The raw mango was nice. The raw mango was nice. Rest, I didn't like this item. You didn't like it? No, I didn't like it. Sorry. Sorry, you recommended us to come here. But we didn't like it. Let's not eat much. Our team will finish. But, but, but. Yes. I wanted to say this. You must be wondering. Yes. We go to so many places. We eat so much. We don't let it go to waste. By us, I mean him as I have come only And I am taking the credit of But she is a member of the BhaDiPa family. Yes, I am a family member. So, we have our team with us. They help us to finish. And whatever is left. We parcel it. And give it to someone who needs it. It is not from what we have eaten. Yes. Everything is nice. So, very good. Thank you so much for clearing it. Very nice. I liked it a lot. Because we fight for food in the end. And we tell everyone to eat less. Yes, eat less. Because we have to eat a lot. So, you might think that this is a square office. But it's not. This is 'Chan Chaudar Misal.' 'Chan Chaudar Misal.' And what you will get here is Yes. Kokum Juice and Misal. What a combination. It's nice. And it's so homely. That it's in a steel bowl. But these two are different. It's not like they have taken out the And cumin on top. Kokum and cumin. Cheers. Cheers. Amazing! You can feel it. Yes. It's coming down the throat. It's fun to drink. It's a 30 rupees Kokum Juice. It's nicely coated with cumin. Yes. It calms the mind. Yes, it calms the mind. I give a golden thumbs up to Kokum Sarbat. Golden thumbs up. Now this. I'll divide it. They have mixed everything. It's a moth beans curry, I think. Yes. It looks like moth beans. The beans have sprouted. There are 5 sides. There are 5 types of lentils. Yes, there are 5 types of lentils. People come here just to have the curry. And the colour is not like red or black. No. It's a proper home made colour. It's a little spicy for me. I don't eat spicy food. It's not hot spicy. No. It's a spice of garam masala. Yes. Something different is going on in this It's lemon. It's lemon. It's a bit salty. If it was served with proper amount of We get Vada Sambhar. They add Vada in Sambhar and mix it. This is that kind of feel. With pav, it's not that salty. The one that we ate at first, it was completely different. It didn't have all these ingredients. It was just properly fried spices. The thickness of it is because of the paste. So I got a little reminiscent of that. Kolhapur's... So this kind of masala is very rare in Mumbai. Small places like this.. Some grandparents are running it, have made the recipe. Two or three people are working at it and I don't know why, but it attracts me. I feel it's an authentic city. Yes. I mean, in the franchise era, they have been surviving for so many In such dishes, it's the taste unique I am giving this Misal, because it's a salty in the beginning. That's why I am not giving it a Golden Thumbs up. But it's almost close to a Golden Thumbs So my Golden Thumbs up goes to this Of course, it's misal is as good as it's name, but is better. So please come here And once you come here, click a picture of We will definitely reshare it. And as everyone says, visit Sharma Bhel So what do you get best? Dahi Batata Puri. Yes, we are from BhaDiPa. Dahi Batata Puri is It's the best. Thank you for recommending it. Tendulkar came here to eat. Here comes the Dahi Puri. Let's try Sachin's favourite Dahi Puri. What's this black thing on top? Mmm. It's heavy. You can work out with it. It's amazing. Wow, wow, wow. The curd is good, the chutney is good, the I was never a fan of this thing. Hmm. No. But my friend told me that wherever I go, Like this one. Because it has all the things So, it's a money saving item. All of the crowd in this shop For this dish, from me, from you, what Golden Thumbs Up. Golden Thumbs Up. Come and try this. Please, please. GIve us, in one plate, Everything is here, come forward. Oh, is Yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes, yes. Ha ha ha ha. All together. Wow, so it's a mix of moong and... Ragda, It's good. I want to taste the water. The water is really good. The most favourite Masala Puri. I'll give it a thumbs up. Very quality Pani Puri. The water is good, the quality is good. You have to try Dahi Puri. It's a must. And if you have space in your stomach, you So I'll give it a golden thumbs up because I'm a fan of Chaat so once I'm done with Wow. Confirmed. So while watching her show, you should a picture with her and post it on our We'll definitely share it. I have a different connection with I started my acting from here. I did INT, Unmesh, Rugajal, I did all My first solo competition prize was at Dinanath. My first house full board was put at Dinanath. I completed 400 shows at Dinanath. And it's all a mix. I'm coming to Dinanath from 1994. From before that. But I never went around Dinanath. I come, I do my show. I sit down, have a cup of tea and leave. But today, because of you, I went around Oh wow. I mean, thank you so much. No, no. And now that you've fed me so much, I invite you to come to my play. I'll definitely come and accept your And thank you so much for coming with us. Because today, because of you, I went and got the chance to feed you good food. So this episode ends here. We'll sit down and wait for the play to So their play is called 'Ivlasa Ropta'. Ropa'. Ropa'. Ivlasa Rop' Ivlasa Rop Please come to watch this play. So keep giving love to our page. Keep eating. And keep watching.