You ever lie awake at night thinking wistfully thing? Sigh, this is so sad, Alexa, play Roman this is my jam. See, the big plot twist of the was off transforming into medieval Europe, for another thousand years. First question, what traits stuck to the classical roots, and period? To see how we got from point R(ome) with a barely-standing Roman empire now split easing the govern--ohhh no they're already fighting Flash forward 2 decades, Constantine reconquers and decides that the empire really needs a Byzantium at the northeast corner of the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean, and was closer to the so it would be the perfect spot for a new imperial Constantine consecrated the city in 330 as New you know, the first Rome. But reunifying an empire and introducing an and Constantine soon found Christians fiercely Academic discussion about church doctrine started rioting about it, so Constantine exerted under control. Instead of the vivid but he held the church-wide Council of Nicaea, binding orthodoxy of the empire. Now, this being can stop these people from finding an excuse to Council of Nicaea did the trick by establishing a Roman Christianity. In doing so, they coopted an power structures. Slick move. These two changes marked the start of the East's Old empire, but things really accelerated 3 sons got into a civil war with each other, dragged kicking and screaming into being the trying and failing to reconvert the empire to on a poorly-organized campaign in Persia. Then a absolutely nothing to solve the serious problems weak administration, and a wimpier army than Rome hard-carry to give the empire another century of wildcard idea (not actually all that wildcard) to Eastern and Western half. Other Emperors cut it always came back together one way or another; that the Byzantine empire officially gets going, Empire wasn't widely called "Byzantine" until as early as the 500s, but in specific cases and whole runtime, as far as its inhabitants were No ambiguity. Still Rome! Back to the western pretty poorly for them, but it put the East in a So if Theodosius indirectly sentenced Western Rome by responding to the perilous threat of Goths Classy. Meanwhile the Western emperors were too over into Rome getting sacked... twice. But the making everything Italy's problem. At the turn of fortifications and began building the Theodosian defended the city for the next thousand years. But even the strongest walls couldn't save the Romans loved their chariot races, and aligned Ah yes, I see no way in which this rabid tribalism control as the blues and greens evolved into politics and religion and started throwing hands the worst riots broke out during the reign of uncle and adoptive-father Justin came from humble rule the empire in one of history's rare-few was the power behind his father's throne. Justinian was falling in love with the famed the ultimate power-couple of the 6th century. But the influence of the Blues and Greens in politics, badly that they teamed up in open revolt. These poured out of the chariot stadium to light mode of political demonstration. The races Constantinople would regularly see their emperor, was an effective and ultimately common way of that the emperor step down. Just as Roman armies the centralization of power in Constantinople in a monarchy, the citizens held considerable dead. That's bad news for Justinian, who was ready but Empress Theodora told him to face his fate "May I never see the day when those who meet me do my lord, there is no difficulty. We are rich; Yet reflect for a moment whether, when you have not gladly exchange such safety for death. As for the noblest shroud." YES Basileia, SLAYYYY. That badass this side of Cleopatra. Ahem, it's good, I'm good, we're good. The Nika massacre in the stadium, and Justinian was left having earned the brutal honor of being the only and succeed. So he made up for it by giving the Constantinople even shinier than before, and that In an evolution from your standard Roman Temples, move, the dome is ringed with windows, which cast and the halo-effect makes the dome look like it's the completed church, he exclaimed "Solomon, I still have this masterpiece of a church around design all throughout the eastern Mediterranean Dome. Meanwhile, Justinian was also hard at work one standard law book. The Corpus Juris Civilis this day. Justinian liked big ideas: one law, one church, point, because the Roman Empire had been you likely wouldn't have seen the Italians were decidedly much better at their and Italy still saw itself as Romans living in a Gothic Kings still consulted with the Senate! who simply wanted to paint the map purple, so he retake he did, because Belisarius, is a boss. the north-African coast from the Vandals of all a year. To celebrate his spectacular victory, an honor exclusively reserved for Emperors ever Belisarius launched his reconquest of Italy. This up the peninsula and inventive tactics like all the way into Rome and made Hannibal look like only to Roman generals, thank you very much. and surrounded the city of Rome for nearly a year, and the political capital of Ravenna. But the problem with investing manpower into much-more-consequential East lay severely exposed. of this, as he even joked with Justinian that as Belisarius, because he had the good manners Justinian obligingly paid Khosrau a share of course with that scamp Khosrau, because 6 years and then built a city he literally named Khosrau's no mere joke, but after an entire millennium of deeply familiar they couldn't help but respect genuine friendships even in the middle of great Persia were the Two Eyes of the world, chosen by fought, business is business, but as such, they to invade Mesopotamia in 540. So now Justinian found himself split between carving out pockets of resistance in Italy. And appearance of the Black Death, which ravaged have surely collapsed if not for the herculean while Justinian was actively in a plague-coma. In Ostrogoths sacked and destroyed Rome, leaving the to re-reconquer Italy from the boot to the alps. Ravenna, which soon became home to some splendid and architecture. As early as the 500s, Byzantines talent for mosaics to near perfection. Over the course of his four decades in rebuilt Constantinople, codified the laws, plague, and reconquered the west, or at least what Justinian's reign was a massive step in the his (arguably-misguided) efforts to reclaim empire no longer needed it. And it's just as the Lombards came across the alps, and by the end things were going somewhere between eh and oof. of the completely incompetent Phocas, so the and was personally indebted to him for his help war, and pushed all the way into Anatolia, before This is really bad, and would have probably been a of Heraclius, the son of North Africa's governor. and assumed control of the Empire. By combining was flexible and better able to repel the Persian a problem until it went away, knowing they could and that was it. Byzantine armies from here out use of force. So after a long and hard-fought Heraclius impressively pushed into the heart of to pre-war status, and both empires stood this would become all-too clear all-too soon, as out of Arabia, and neither Persia nor Byzantium Rashidun caliphate conquered the entire levant, well. Constantinople itself was threatened by an trick called Basically Napalm. This was a colossal had held for a millennium, to the point where the the Caliphate. But by the end of the century, entire southern Mediterranean for good. Meanwhile, What other front, you ask? Well, Slavic forces had in half and leaving the empire looking like a the time-honored Roman tradition of spectacular take solace in at least that. It's no coincidence that this chapter in the so-called "Dark Ages", hereafter exclusively got over 700 years left on the clock, so as we'll them. Amid all the land getting yoinked, it's easy what continuity is still there. The empire in and spread out over the whole Mediterranean. form of government that Rome's had for several this newly-Christianized empire was becoming far and they were, but we can associate them with closely reflected the classical Greek world, strongest literary legacy was in its preservation of all the ancient Greek texts we have today came Alexandria, it's the Library of Constantinople this Greekness and newfangled Christianity lets empire isn't really the authentic Roman empire that fundamentally Roman capacity to adapt and literally and figuratively, the Byzantine golden much gold mosaic, it's honestly kind of insane. delicate balance of simultaneously doing fantastic would be a contradiction, but the Byzantines brand. As we'll see over the next 500 years, the while the Golden Age endured some catastrophic the Byzantines kept on keeping on despite the longest-lasting empires in history. SO, let's see gained their golden reputation. When last we left our purple-robed friends, been swiftly yoinked by the shiny new Muslim neighbors had landed on Constantinople's doorstep by the very fires of Hell itself. See, the a secret substance that could be shot from a from the mast down to the surface of the water. from the Fall of Rome -- In addition to their they maintained hundreds of underground cisterns was better defended than Constantinople, but the as the Muslim armies were having their run of only in 740 that Emperor Leo III finally held the the other troublesome frontier by pushing back it took a century and a half, but solid reason that some historians have described this and they loved to have images of Jesus, Mary and in the eyes of people like Emperor Leo, this where images are worshipped more piously than smash every last image he could get his hands on. destroyed every mosaic, fresco, statue, and doubled down, and began persecuting the clergy for the Adriatic, the Pope in Rome was justifiably took the occasion to declare independence, which survive this mess. After Constantine died, his but Emperor Leo V reinstated it, and then it for good in 843. The final rules were that so the Byzantines got back to work with gorgeous snub visual realism in favor of stylized figures and that style governs eastern orthodox art to how pathetically few pieces of original art dreaded double-whammy -- I can take comfort knowing of continuity. For all the well-meaning damage the Iconoclasts the Byzantine military and government by, as back in the classical days, Roman Provinces had Legions to show up from Jupiter-Knows-Where. so the Byzantines reconfigured their armies the provinces were gradually redrawn as Themata, Strategos, overseeing both the civic and military imperial legions, Byzantine Themata each had their and funded by land grants within that Thema, wellbeing of the state. Though the empire the extremely perilous eastern front went fortress -- the Byzantines were stronger and were also hard at work protecting the empire, as military manuals. Books like the Strategikon laid generals in the field. The empire was well past it out in big decisive battles and raise a fresh frontier waiting to pounce at the first sign of So campaigns were won by carefully calculated was all a game of restraint and flexibility, so adopting outside ideas. Those are the big picture swerves, but the tactics upgrade, trading raw manpower for peak efficiency. stayed in fashion by remodeling the old Roman they ditched the Scutum for the hotness that name Skutatoi literally means "Shield Boys". the Toxotai archers, but the biggest and baddest They were basically hoplites on horses, with in scale armor. Their name technically means as "Full-Metal Cavalry". Kataphrakts traced their but came to prominence here as a counter to the around the poor Skutatoi, but eventually the and a byword for Byzantine power. Infantry and Kataphraktoi would hammer through the weak points saying it in English - Karaphracts - it's cool you get Kataphraktos, and then you really just me? Ah fine whatever. So as an empire that's about 75% coast, the in the Aegean, along the Mediterranean, and on navy. In the world's best case of "If It isn't version of the Trireme, some 2,000 years later, known, had been upgraded with a Lateen sail and and of course, Greek fire siphons. Plus, instead ancient Athenian doof, the Dromoi were equipped them, for ease of boarding and/or burning. Slick to stop repeated Muslim incursions into Crete, the mainland coasts, the islands of the Aegean, Constantinople via the Bosphorus river. With Iconoclasm over and the empire no longer the Byzantines entered two centuries of prosperity who I can't help but picture as a leaf, a line of through its Golden Age, the peak of imperial With the Muslim armies to the east &amp; south at their attention to the Bulgarians, and used them via conversion to Christianity. They did the which set Eastern Europe with their quasi-Greek brand of Orthodox Christianity. In return, Varangian guard, a legendary band of Scandinavian guard for centuries. Now this was no Pax Romana - and the Bulgarians even swiped northern Greece in II a century later - but compared to the way By the year 1,000 it held half-a-million people, magnificent city in the world. Hagia Sophia new decorations after iconoclasm. Times clearly window into the classical world, with Roman-style marble and porphyry as far as the eye could see. it was the keystone city of the Mediterranean, a trade, work, and live - Just as there were city, so too was there a Mosque for the city's Romans never missed an opportunity to commemorate empire, Byzantine architects were hard at work monasteries. But funnily enough, our best looks at empire, but from its rivals. To the west, Venice oddest frenemies, because as much as they used prosperity for themselves, they were the most Seriously, between Saint Mark's Basilica and the golden-age art. Then to the north is Saint Sophia Ukraine's Byzantine Orthodox legacy. Culturally, things had never been better, but were starting to show. The Byzantines had been of Anatolia, but the empire was more comfortable and the carefully-constructed Themata system began ignored their civic duties to play Monopoly-Men and gold-covered domes, cushy bureaucrats in their books. So each camp blamed the other for the fix it. The emperor didn't help matters by on the Tagma, a standing army meant primarily extremely precarious position, spread too thin and to stab your enemies with a limp spaghetti. To to conquer the last Byzantine pockets, and to the hard that Anatolia just disappeared. And they Byzantine army deserted en-route to the battle of of miscalculations on their way to an entirely that doomed them, after Manzikert, the Byzantines 1075, the empire had never been smaller or weaker. about Hubris, but apparently not! And unfortunately for our Grekbois here, the between the churches in Constantinople and and One Empire went kaput as soon as the southern in Rome remained nominal at best. When the Papal formality. Communication between east and west was Latin and how few Italians spoke Greek. And tiffs whether the Pope had supreme spiritual authority own business. These views were... fundamentally a head when a Roman delegate excommunicated the Sophia in the middle of service, daaaaaaamn (but excommunications of their own, and just like that realized the implications, this marked the final and the Eastern Orthodox church. But one Byzantine emperor saw this as a rare of civil war to assume the throne in 1081, and his Byzantine fortunes throughout the 1100s. He made new trade agreements with the Venetians, and to Pope Urban with the offer to recognize Papal to help with the Byzantine reconquest. But Urban's up sending along several armies'-worth of European this right: Retake The Holy Land? That wasn't our life now, so now Alexios had to wrangle this Jerusalem so they didn't Deus Vult all over were much more excited to conquer their own new and subsequent crusades would only entangle the European politics, earning nothing but antagonism Normans were constantly poking and prodding into a monopoly on Byzantine trade. But despite all than they first got it, having reclaimed coastal supervision, and continued to make churchloads of Anna Komnene composed an epic poem about the reign first woman historian and absolute literary the Byzantine motto at this point -- definitely of Byzantine history, the empire was in a really smashing all of their art -- but it's no accident revitalize their culture. The Byzantines survived, being clever and never giving up -- The Thema and it bought the Byzantines an entire as time went on they got a little careless, but turned things around, again! I don't just like I love Byzantine history because they're a it doesn't matter how you get knocked down, or how or Anatolia too, wow they've really been through is that you keep on trying no matter what, because track of just how long-running the Byzantines getting Goth-smacked into oblivion in 476 AD, the Constantinople, was, by comparison, doing pretty and the Byzantine Empire evolved into a gorgeous medieval Christian culture. But unfortunately domes couldn't prevent the infinite abyss of to come. Between Persians, Goths, Arabs, Turks, it's safe to say the Byzantines could not catch this distinctly Promethean trend, where they Eagle without ever actually dying from it. As we Golden Disaster Empire managed to keep on thriving most Garbage of circumstances. So, let's see how and even then, kinda slipped past the deadline. with the fall of the Empire - about two we're making great time. Because long before the were struggling to coexist with the Italian on. Venetian and Genoese traders tussled in the were street gangs in Shakespearean Verona, but on the problem by arresting and then murdering Bad look. This Giant Yikes was compounded by the whose constant infighting left the empire woefully powers of Europe launched Crusade Numero 4 on the To the ensuing surprise of precisely nobody, it army getting excommunicated by the Pope before at the end of the Crusaders' tunnel was prince military support in exchange for reinstating his ignoring the key rules from Alexios Komnenos' Under Any Circumstances, Do Not Ask Crusaders not worth it. Rule #2: If the Crusaders arrive empire as fast as humanly possible. Do Not let are inside your empire, never for any reason and prone to fits of disproportionate holy rage. every point - And, spying an opportunity to quit Constantinople. Venice deliberately instigated the Should Have Known Better than to Tee Them Up. So, The Sack. Beyond being a rough approximation unfortunate to be on the receiving end, the the city. Venetians had the good sense to steal Glory Of The Republic instead of mindlessly one -- but whether trashed or taken, Constantinople was next on the To-Thieve list. chose to swipe up the islands of the Aegean, Byzantine throne and carved up the Greek mainland. the capital was now kaput, and the Aegean world went poof. But even The End Of The Empire as Byzantine nobles in Survival-Mode quickly in Trebizond, Nicaea, and Epirus. Each became overlords in Mainland Greece, whose Latin Empire money-pot. But the Franks quickly got bored by weaker than the assorted Byzantines they had out on the defensive, to put it mildly, but gave Nicaea a leg up. The man in charge Michael and he retooled his army away from pure defense campaign on four fronts at once, spread out over in Thrace and Macedonia. And then the Nicaeans While a small army scouted around the city to suss army was out on campaign, so the Byzantines snuck and then took the city. For all the disasters to RNG Just This Once works out in their favor. soon found his work cut out for him, as the city a century earlier, and sliding so close to cutting quite as Imperial a figure as they used hard enough to defend the Byzantine dominion back presiding over a kingdom and a capital that were more impressive achievement was not in retaking but not impossible, as Romans in every era adapted weakened empire on the backfoot had to win harder clever: their solution was to update a taxation military - essentially staffing your heavy cavalry paying and equipping them yourself. The Emperor revoke or transfer them at will, so weirdly version of the tax-farming Publicani system to contemporary sources, the army's infantry there was a battle?? So the late Byzantine army a medieval innovation on a Republic-era system, farmers-turned-soldiers - A patchy system to be but it did the trick, and it's one hell of an were still at play in the Byzantine world. Otherwise, clever diplomacy was the sharpest the rivalry between Venice and Genoa made had a conspicuous habit of always going down in strategic flubs, such as when the Byzantines rogue at the slightest provocation and claimed even this wasn't the worst mercenary customer in 1343, the royal treasury was too thin to Anna pawned what she had, which was the empire's royal honor for some warships, Anna lost her against the empire. This one really illuminates regularly threw themselves into, because the death year old John Palaiologos in charge. His mother second-in-command John Kantakouzenos wanted to That civil war split Byzantine society across controversy. So when John Kantakouzenos and his the original crown jewels were off in Venice, crowns were copies made of tinted glass - augh that's what kills me. Naturally, Johnny another civil war to kick out his co-emperor, the worst thing to happen in the 1340s, because, Population is ravaged, economy in ruins, let us and this would provide a golden opportunity for Byz-bois were busy reconstituting their empire, east after the collapse of the Sultanate of Rum. word for Rome. But where had the Rum gone? Well, own space, and the state of Osman Bey was the starting spot on Nicaea's doorstep, they leveraged playing rival Byzantine factions against each to recast the entire Eastern Roman world in not Roman in the way the Byzantines were Roman institutions and culture - but they were one of Roman orbit and slowly began to scoot themselves the Two Eyes of the World like back with Persia, society like the early Caliphate, this was, in a long line of a very familiar situation. The lot of societies fancied themselves enjoying that but they quickly made it clear they were the next last big Roman one. So, about a century after the reconquest of unavoidable problems to the empire's long-term pushing west, Venice and Genoa turned the and the complete lack of a Byzantine economy meant then, to cap it off we've got the endless internal kid ourselves, this is still the Romans we're fully rebuilding the empire was a no-go, so the their time, which meant putting themselves under in the face of peril, giving up was never an Just Constantinople, things looked shockingly Palaiologos was tripping ass-first into retaking fortune of capturing the Latin Prince of Achaea for a few castles down in the Peloponnese. They the mountains, much like the ancient Spartans had this distant Byzantine outpost in Lakonia became a from the Morea and beyond flocked into the city left off. So in the 13 and 1400s, Mystras became I mean, look, I'm not going to pretend like one par with the empire pre-crusade, because of course a paragon of that Romano-Hellenic perseverance, to No I'm not getting sentimental, that's just marble with Constantinople, keeping this territory safe was a hell of a lot easier with water on 3 sides sweating javelins at the sight of incoming handle itself, so it gained autonomy in 1349. onto almost the entire Peloponnese, and briefly also had a practical benefit to Constantinople, as as governors down in the Peloponnese, to the actually crowned in Mystras rather than up in the is they didn't... stop. Despite the empire's of European Crusader armies that disintegrated up. By 1453, Sultan Mehmet finally had the and by means I mean cannons the size of a house. the city's line of supply, the Ottomans blasted Constantine is said to have given a rousing speech fighting was fiercest, never to be seen again. was so awed by the beauty of Hagia Sophia that rather than blasting it and starting moving the goalpost back for dramatic effect), the Ottomans continued the time-honored love of would play a meaningful role in Ottoman history sailors, soldiers, and people. After all, Mediterranean, more prosperous and secure than pretend that nothing was lost when Mehmet breached spilled and a state did not end, but when the man Rome's own terms that, as its new Caesar, he is now his responsibility; he took it, yes, but he corners of the once-Greek world, where Hellenic despite being part of Other People's Empires. Greece but Greece conquered Rome" describing state it becomes part of, and that has never or anyone else. The Venetian Republic's outlying also majority-Greek, and here they played an a Catholic European audience. Venetian Greece and Crete especially became a beacon for Hellenism with Renaissance innovations. So, Crusading Venetians centuries prior, the painfully part in the long-term preservation of Byzantine loud. But as we enter the 15 and 1600s, the days empire are long, long gone - so let's wrap up. The standard question of the Byzantine Empire hell sooner when everything was always on fire?" is over 1,000 straight years of the map getting if they didn't persevere. Let's not forget that's The Longest Empire. And it got that far too late to care, or too late to try, because their state, their people, their faith, and their for. And even when the last mini-golden-age was a Their Best kept them going in even the most dire So when we look back at the empire to ask why it's for the same reason as when Constantinople the Rhomaioi, endured. meaningful video for me to make, so I sincerely ancient Rome is exciting, or Venice is flashy, but count myself satisfied if I was able to convey all I've got to do now is ah ~ stitch these