Lieutenant Colonel James Earl Rudder is leader of the 2nd Ranger Battalion. He looks up the wet face of the cliff . &quot;Colonel, ropes are useless. They're too heavy to use. They took too much water.&quot; Grenades begin to fall from above. Dust and dirt fall from all sides. &quot;Sir, what do we do now?&quot; His mind drifts back to just 5 months earlier where the plan had been explained to him in a dusty briefing room in London. &quot;We're arranging a multi-pronged attack to take Normandy and finally put a dent in the German's 'Fortress Europe'. But the Germans have something that could be... problematic for our plans .&quot; Six French trophy 155 mm cannons based on a top of 100 foot cliff at Pointe Du Hoc with an effective range of over 20,000 yards... &quot;If those cannons remain in play, they'll inflict massive losses upon our troops in both "Omaha'' and "Utah''. The plan is to land here, at "Pointe du Hoc" There are 100-foot cliffs plus fortifications around this battery. The battery is manned by 200 Germans, surrounded by some barbed wire and minefields. We need you to not only destroy those guns but then hold the point until reinforcements arrive.&quot; It's likely to be the most difficult mission of your career.&quot; D-Day arrives on the 6th of June 1944. Hundreds of Rangers from the 2nd and 5th battalions move from their troop ships to board their 12 LCA landing craft and 4 DUKW amphibious vehicles and start their journey towards France. Approaching France, the group splits into two. The Commander of the Rangers 5th battalion Lt. Col Schneider and his Rangers stay behind in their landing craft and watch as Rudder and 3 companies of the 2nd battalion push the final miles towards the French coast. Schneider settles down to keep watch. As soon as Rudder captures the cliff and signals Schneider and his men will rush in to support them. LCAs occasionally had trouble when it came to stormy conditions. Unfortunately for the Rangers, the weather was with the Germans that morning, An easterly tidal current begins pushing the LCAs off course almost as soon as they broke off from the group. &quot;Hold on, boys! We picked one hell of a day for a sea assault.&quot; 4 foot waves rock the craft as they head towards the coast. One heavily laden landing craft gets swamped and it swiftly drops below the waves. Its crew struggle but survive. Then another goes down packed full of supplies. Only one man is rescued... In less than half an hour, all of the Rangers' supplies and a chunk of their reinforcements have been lost. As the shore comes into view the fog of war is already present... Earlier, planes have dropped smokescreen over the water giving the Rangers a small amount of protection, but also now hampering their visibility. When the smokescreen finally begins to clear, Rudder notices something is off... &quot;What is this? Looks like the currents have pushed us off course, we're too far East. Pilot, can you get us over there?&quot; &quot;Aye, aye sir!&quot; &quot;Stay under cover and prepare for enemy fire! There are a ton of German strong points up there.&quot; Do you have what it takes to command a warship? Test your skills in ship to ship action with World of Warships, the sponsor of today's video. Dive into this free to play game with over 600 historically accurate ships. Each month, World of Warships delivers new missions, updates, and events to keep you and your friends engaged. This time, commemorating the 80th anniversary of D-Day, World of Warships invites you to relive the most monumental amphibious operation ever. As the captain of a warship, command new iconic ships, strategize in fresh missions, and engage in battles inspired by June 6, 1944. Unlock new ships debuting in the game, special D-Day PVE and PVP missions, commemorative historical commanders, exclusive patches, skins, and customizations. Support the channel and join the great game today using the code DDAY80TH to receive a huge starter pack including 200 doubloons, a million credits, 7 Days of Premium Account time, a free ship and 3 special D-Day missions after 9 battles. Don't forget, the game is available on console. Recreate history in World of Warships. The metallic hail intensifies as the enemy fires mortars into the waters around them. Rudder's LCA gets rocked by waves and explosions. The defending Germans hold their fire watching as the approaching vessels battle against the current. At 300 meters distance the order goes up. &quot;Fire!&quot; The Germans let loose with all they have. At the rear of the column there's an explosion as a 20mm shell blasts a hole through a DUKW which quickly sinks to the depths below... The LCAs sweep in and grind into the shingle at the foot of Pointe du Hoc. As the ramp drops there's non-stop gunfire from the German positions from the East. The DUKWs struggle up the sure past the beached landing craft. They're carrying long ladders requisitioned from the London fire brigade. As the 3 remaining DUKWs crawl onto the beach they all fall to the inhospitable shoreline that is pock-marked with craters and sandbars. &quot;Everybody out! Make your way across the beach and watch out for enemy fire.&quot; &quot;Move it, move it, move it!&quot; The LCAs fire off rockets with attached ropes aimed at the top of the cliff. But most only reach halfway up the cliff before rebounding off the rocks &quot;Use your grenades! Do everything you can! They can't reach the cliff!&quot; An angry handful of German soldiers step up to the edge of the cliff to shoot down at the approaching Rangers with their submachine guns and rifles. Lomell quickly takes aim &quot;Time to even the odds, boys" and opens fire at the Germans with his Browning Automatic Rifle, peppering the cliffside and striking one of the enemy soldiers standing on the edge. The German soldiers reconsider their position and begin to relocate. Taking advantage of the enemy's confusion, the Rangers move forward to take cover at the base of the cliff. Back at sea, Schneider is still waiting for a signal from Rudder's group but knows nothing about the delays that have beset the Rangers He looks out solemnly, as his company can't find any sight of the planned signal. &quot;Anything from Rudder?&quot; &quot;Nothing sir.&quot; &quot;Damn it!&quot; &quot;Okay, head for Omaha.&quot; From there we'll land with the 116th Infantry and work our way to the Pointe.&quot; Back at the Pointe a German soldier ignites a potato masher grenade and it lands at the feet of one of Rudder's Rangers. Horrified, Rudder quickly spots the danger. Thinking quickly he grabs it from the beach and throws it out of the way. Under mortar and gunfire, Rudder and the Rangers try to find cover near the base of the cliff. &quot;Colonel! Ropes are useless, they're too heavy to use! They took too much water.&quot; There's a clang of metal upon stone as a grenade lands between 2 Rangers, leaving the ears of the survivors ringing. Rudder, who has suffered a mild concussion, is trying to figure out what to do next. For a moment, it seems like there are no options. Meanwhile, shells from the sea are hitting the cliff, causing pieces of rock to fall onto the Rangers. Far out at sea, Allied ships take aim at the Pointe and fire round after round towards the Pointe in an attempt to help the assault. The shells from the naval bombardment force the Germans back from the cliff edge and into cover. Rudder looks at his men and notices the mound as the dust settles. With all the debris scattered at the foot of the cliff there is now a huge embankment. Determination appears in his eyes. &quot;Get the ladders.&quot; &quot;Yes sir!&quot; Kuhn, Lomell, cover fire!&quot; Doing their best to avoid enemy fire and explosions from grenades, the Rangers show incredible teamwork under fire to assemble three 16-foot sections of the ladder, enough to reach the top of the Pointe du Hoc. Technician fifth grade George J. Putzek climbs up the final section and becomes the first Ranger to set foot on the top of the cliff. In a matter of minutes, Rudder and the Rangers scale the remaining 60 feet of the cliff. &quot;Now let's get those guns.&quot; The Rangers fan out and get to work at routing out the Germans from their stronghold. The Rangers make their way through the German defenses in trenches and craters. They encounter resistance at one of the bunkers, and a fierce battle ensues. The Rangers are suffering heavy losses, but they are experienced shock troops, and gain the upper hand. Rudder jumps up and sprints for cover. He's realised that it's blood on his thigh. &quot;How bad?&quot; &quot;I'm good. Go on ahead.&quot; As Company D pushes up into the area where the 155mm cannons were marked in the mission intel, 1st Sergeant Leonard Lomell makes a troubling discovery regarding the French artillery. It appears that the aerial photographs weren't entirely correct. At least, not anymore. &quot;Dummies! God damn! The real guns aren't here.&quot; &quot;They can't have moved those cannons very far. Let's keep moving inland and see if we can find them.&quot; Within 15 minutes of cresting the cliff, the Rangers clear out the last of the German forces and secure Pointe du Hoc, tossing grenades into nearby bunkers to finish the job. Colonel Rudder commandeers one of the bunkers on the promontory. He's wounded but he shrugs it off and establishes a command post and attempts to make contact with the home base. &quot;Located Pointe du Hoc. The point is secure. We need ammunition and reinforcements, many casualties.&quot; &quot;No reinforcements available. Repeat. No reinforcements available.&quot; &quot;Dammit. We're on our own.&quot; Without reinforcements Rudder still makes the decision to protect Pointe du Hoc at all costs, sending out patrols towards the road from Grandcamp to Vierville-sur-Mer. 1st Sergeant Lomell and Staff Sergeant Jack E. Kuhn continue on through the hedges of an orchard to search for the missing cannons. &quot;We're about half a mile out from the battery now. Where are those damn cannons?&quot; They suddenly hear a rustling in the bushes, which prompts them to take action. &quot;You know what to do, Lomell.&quot; Rangers Lomell and Kuhn set the thermite grenades in the recoil mechanism of the cannon. They hunt and find 4 others and get to work. &quot;The heavy cannons have all been disabled!&quot; &quot;Thank God. Now we just have to hold this damn rock.&quot; Rudder is relieved but now as he surveys his men he knows the next stage of his mission to hold the point will be just as hard. How many men will he lose? As night falls the men prepare for the inevitable counter-attack from the Germans. Just before midnight the Americans are startled by a general outburst of whistles and shouts, close by on the orchard slope. The Germans attack but the Rangers hold firm forcing the Germans into retreat... &quot;This was just a probing attack. They'll be back.&quot; An hour later the Germans stealthily move through the fields and orchards. Incredibly they get to within 50 yards of the Rangers without being detected. The Americans once again hear whistles and what seems to be the shouting of names up and down the front, a kind of &quot;roll call&quot;. &quot;Get ready. Here they come.&quot; German machine guns break the tension and the quiet of the night. Tracers snake across the heads of the Rangers and ammunition sprays through the hedgerows. Mortar explosions batter the Rangers and grenades fly in in graceful arcs. But the Rangers hold firm forcing the Germans back once again. At three o'clock, the most violent attack is unleashed upon the Rangers. Now running low on ammo and rocked by heavy mortar fire the Rangers are forced back and the line is overrun by the enemy. The command is given to retreat but in the heat of battle some Rangers were left behind and captured. Or worse. Taking command of the situation at the command post Rudder quickly organises his men and sets up a new line of defense. As morning breaks on June the 7th, Rudder has only 90 able-bodied Rangers holding on, waiting for a new German attack. But due to the Rangers' fierce defense, that attack never comes. Finally on the 8th of June the main American force reached Pointe du Hoc. Rudder had been wounded three different times during the assault. Of those who served valiantly in the 2nd Battalion, 152 were wounded and 77 men were lost. Today, Colonel Rudder and all of the heroic Rangers who participated in that battle are honored with a memorial at the cliff's edge of Pointe du Hoc, the very cliff that they conquered after that treacherous climb 80 years ago. Click the link in the description and use our code DDAY80TH to receive a huge starter pack from World of Warships.