In this video, I'm going to share the to level up your 3D printing experience. And no, it's not because my office this week, at least not entirely. Let's dive in. For those of you who don't know, heck OctoPrint is at a high level. OctoPrint is a free open source connect your 3D printer to a a simple, dedicated Raspberry Pi. The benefits of this are manyfold. First, it takes any dumb 3D printer wifi connectivity, a camera, and the It also allows you to upload files without Plus, it gives you a much easier, like preheating, selecting which Which is a great segue into UI Customizer. I know, I know beauty is in the have always found that the default There's no nice way to say that. It's not only about aesthetics, though, want to fix and clean up the interface it and more functionality without it And that is where UI Customizer comes in. Sure, there are other plugins that allow but UI Customizer is unique in that it tabs, change various aspects of the Now, I highly, highly recommend like this dark mode and wanna All right. The next plugin you're going to need It allows you to, well create a dashboard speeds, temperatures, layers, and more. Now, this is especially helpful for printer at any given time at a glance. Of course you can customize what you want here, but this is definitely a must have. Okay, before we move on to the more one more aesthetic one that really It's called Slicer, it's called Slicer thumbnail of whatever it is that you are which is going to be really useful share towards the end of the video. Now all you need to do here is your slicer profiles to send It works with all major slicers and voila, Amazing! All right, with the aesthetics outta the functionality to your printer, and I'm This one is the single most useful of time and a ton of filament, which It's called Cancel Objects, and it does most of the plugins on this list. Not super creative with What's cool about this plugin is that individual objects in the G code, you mid print, if one of them fails, rather fear of that one object moving around Now, this one alone has saved me literally going to enjoy it as much as I do. So if you do make sure By the way, on the topic of saving failed By default, your OctoPrint installation meaning that if you leave your but if you do leave your house, Sure you could set up your own VPN that's a bit over my head and I worry Instead, I recommend that you check out so happens to be this video sponsor. But honestly, I've used it for years OctoEverywhere is a plug-and-play add-on your printer or printers from anywhere in It works with any app or interface apps, OctoPod, Apple TV apps, or You can stream your webcam, upload messaging apps, and much, much more. Best of all, they recently launched failure monitoring solution, which if they look like they're failing. You can even share a live feed family, or customers, so they can I love sharing a live feed It has gotten me some awesome feedback. Now, what I love most about OctoEverywhere You can use the basic Yes, free. Or add up to five printers and for just $2.99 a month. That's a total bargain for everything check them out and support the channel by Thank you OctoEverywhere for possible and allowing me to make And now let's get into the next plugin. So we talked a bit about AI with me of another plugin we really Have you ever noticed that times are, well, they're wrong. They're like really, really wrong. Print Time Genius is a learning Time Genius is a learning algorithm actually prints as you go, and then it This is super helpful for so many nothing, just like everything else on I don't know if I mentioned that. Okay, so you're uploading printing stuff at faster... my printer is talking to me. Okay, so you're uploading G codes at a faster clip than ever before. Well, pretty soon you're going to have Super overwhelming. And by default, OctoPrint only time, and then it needs to refresh Forget that noise. With File Manager, you can add checkboxes want, and then delete them all at once. It might seem like a silly little thing, saves a ton of time between deleting and to find the one that you're looking for. Definitely download File Manager. Speaking of saving time, wouldn't it be go to your computer to select those G code or all that type of stuff, you just had a You know, like the really expensive the way, not just a touchscreen that the Prusa Mini or the newer Ender-3S, actually interact with all the features codes, filament management, which I'm not really use it between all my different Now, this is especially useful if your fortunately you can add one for a few I did to make it all work together. You just need to download OctoDash, which line, and then add OctoDash Helper. You can then configure the quick menu like homing, cool down and more with No more thumbing around Oh, and remember how I mentioned would come in handy pretty soon? Well, you can actually get them to display Enjoy! All right, let's get You've probably seen a lot of those seems to magically grow out of the bed Now this isn't possible with the that ships with OctoPrint, so you'll Octolapse works by moving the print head so that a photo can be taken of the Now Michael Laws over at Teaching Tech use and configure it, and you should are a lot of settings that you'll need absolute best results, both in terms of move the print head outta the way, but focus, exposure and so on dialed in. Now, as soon as you start tweaking and going to quickly find that you have on your storage, taking up space. Personally, I would always forget to so I installed Timelapse Purger and timelapses after a set amount of time. I love automation and the less old files I need to do, the better. Speaking of automation, one of the single OctoPrint installation to other things. That could be Zapier if you use apps around the web about your prints. You could tweet every time you're spreadsheet of your print times or I don't know. You could do a lot of things honestly. Plus, with Home Assistant Discovery, you that you can say, change the color of the or announce print completion on your smart If you're an automation geek like me, right in your smart home dashboard, and things that you can do with webhooks to to different devices or parts of the web. This is a geeky one, but one that personally, it's a pain in the butt my printer, take my laptop over there, the firmware, and blah, blah, blah. Fortunately, with Firmware Updater for Pi or computer or whatever is running actually updates your printer's firmware. And since they're already plugged Just upload the new firmware, boom. Off you go. So there you have it. My top 14 must have OctoPrint plug-ins. If you like this video, please leave because it really does make a difference. If you're not already subscribed and about all things 3D printing, making, And if you really want to help full-time job so I can create more Patreon where you can get exclusive from partners, and much, much more. Thanks for watching and happy 3D printing.