As I'm sure you've noticed there are so little bit daunting, especially if you're end up spending all of your money on a So while it's just you and me here I'm gonna the martini and help you choose what's through some tips and tricks and let you martini the best flavor and texture To be honest making a great martini is easy, the key word is cold. your spirit, serving glass and mixing take away the harshness of the alcohol, from the freezer you won't even if everything is really cold then you won't end up over diluting your martini and it will have a lovely oily If you can't don't stress, just stir your martini on the can control the dilution and make sure it's icy cold. And yes, I did say stir, we're because it's not going to give us the Maybe he had enough of that himself? As with all cocktails you want to choose base spirits that are gonna give you the cocktail itself. The martini is so simple course you're gonna need really good First let's put olives in something savory, a dry martini. a wet martini. For our dry martini we're using gin. Tanqueray and Plymouth's gin suit both wet and dry prefer vodka, and they're all available martini I can't go past Gin Mare. fishing village on the Mediterranean and Arbequina, if you know how to say that of other Mediterranean herbs like thyme a pizza in a bottle. Just kidding, but I don't actually really think it needs the olive brine and it would probably drown are really gonna bring this martini to life. make sure that it is fresh. Once you've refrigerated and only lasts for about a half bottles which are perfect for highlighting the gin in our dry martini lighter in body and has really nice fresh ingredients and good quality wine good job of supporting the Gin Mare martinis it comes down to personal the ratio of gin to vermouth here is 12 25 to 1 or even just popping a little stirring it around with ice and then have to try a few ways to figure out Dolan Dry vermouth chilled. Don't put alcohol content isn't high enough, so it as you can get it in the fridge. And 60 mils of our icy Gin Mare Now when it comes to the should only garnish in uneven numbers so get two olives it could be that the I've gone for anchovy stuffed olives obviously any kind of olives that you like. as possible and then stir it by against the inside of the mixing glass this is basically pure gin it does need testing it as you're stirring if you're where you don't have any of that harsh Perfect. julep strainer in to hold the ice back Don't forget the best bit. A classic dry gin martini with olives. So now you know. As I mentioned martinis are really all about the texture and Ketel One copper pot stills, which gives it a unlike a lot of other vodkas which are distilled on column stills, to briefly It also has lovely honey and citrus wet martini with a twist. While you can have your choice of vermouth this Regal Rogue Lively White vermouth vermouth out of the background here so of character. Australia has long been starting to have a little bit of fun made from really aromatic semillon like lemon myrtle and finger lime as gonna give us a really citrusy and from the savory and dry martini that we Bianco vermouth, so it is still white but than the drier vermouth which will just So in this drink we're gonna use a with both the vermouth and the vodka with nice skin that you're gonna get a glass you do want the twist is be a trim it down once I've cut it off into a drape it over the side of the glass. it's just gonna help with the floral and lengthen out, and it was a Then were going for 20 mils of our Regal our ice-cold Ketel One Vodka. Add as much in there and give it a stir. vermouth in it to begin with long as it doesn't need as much dilution. My favourite. And pour it into your chilled glass. To finish grab your a grapefruit twist, hold it over the top of your cocktail so aromatic oils, roll it round and hook it A wet vodka martini. So now you know. So which do you prefer? It's all down to personal taste and what you feel like on the day but hopefully you've learnt enough to have an experiment for So now you know and it's over to you but have you ever wondered where this video or if you're still unsure how like a boss then have a look at this one. don't forget to subscribe.