At some point pretty early on I had already to this if I managed to do it [laughs] Yeah, is the record [laughs] Exactly. So, let me guess. us don't play time trials very much, despite it Kart. Time trials is not the most popular way it's the purest form of Mario Kart. In the time vehicle combo, then you choose a track to play on. and it's up to you to complete the race as fast recorded. That's it. No other racers, no item race with items, whether it's grand prix mode, there's this sense that you can make mistakes. it's not the end of the world. The game will give possible. This keeps the race exciting and close, what might happen. You always have a chance to with a completely undeserved win. But sometimes, only for an incredibly unlucky sequence of events is quite fittingly known as "getting Mario in time trials. Time trials completely takes the chance to put your destiny entirely in your own about how I did just that, and achieved something [Music] I didn't even want to do this. This was Rod's or RTAT120, is this other guy playing Petey and he has a Youtube channel where he uploads practicing some tracks that I wasn't very good at. However, I was not trying to set a record. In is what I actually care about, I was doing what's don't use the mushrooms, and don't always go for to simulate what it's like to frontrun in a race call with Rod, and we started practicing together. at, and which are also good for frontrunning, and even Rosalina's Ice World, which some of you to exactly this sort of practice. However, a noticed that Rod was playing on Hyrule Circuit. but he was also using mushrooms. For some reason, he could get. You know, a regular time trial. But next thing I knew, I was trying to beat HIS Hyrule you on that? I don't really remember I think we probably just like some natural curiosity of like what time could I get' but that's how that's how better. And so it began. On February 17, 2024, Rod Circuit. Now keep in mind, this was basically seconds behind the world record, which generally a decent level, but you're not amazing at it yet. make sure I knew what the best strategies were. I know every detail. So I went to online ghosts, Elle, to watch what they did [Music] And as I was watching, and I thought to myself, definitely can't beat this, but I think can do [Music] On second thought, let's race without a ghost. I'm going to get [Music] The world record makes it look easy, but I quickly noticed that I was unable to even complete a time this was mainly because of a few really difficult let's look at the start of the run. Right at the of maneuvers to pull off. First of all, you need touching it, to line up a drift through the 2 trick at the exact right spot and angle, so that right, hold right as you trick low on the ramp, coins, and charge up a purple mini-turbo. Alright, Yeah, that is unbelievably tough. What makes this first ramp. If you don't trick at just the right where you need to land. And even if it looks close is not good enough, because you will have alignment will be completely off. And trust me, to be perfect throughout this entire sequence. granted that these techniques just happen. But failed. Personally, I have failed this sequence I can say that now, as of making this video, I am this sequence. But, that's not how I started. I figured that the perfect beginning sequence was it like this. It's also how the world record does just take that time loss, if it means actually The rest of the run is much more straightforward, into the castle, these stairs are really tough to if you take a slightly wide turn, it's impossible turning at its sharpest. So if you have a bad you can try to take it perfectly, but you always we have the famous Hyrule Circuit shroomless supposed to be relatively easy, because you just to easily clear it. But if you want the fastest and get a perfect landing, which is very risky. some things to say about this shortcut. Anyway, except at the end of lap 1 and 2, you don't an orange mini-turbo, which is pretty precise, instead of charging a purple mini-turbo on the then do a mini-turbo trick off the final ramp, bit more time. And that's all there is to it! we got on a call and time trialed this track for a personal best of 1:49.741, about 2 and a half behind him, but I am yet to achieve a time under even get a 1:49? I do, yeah. We got it in like 2 trialing, in those two hours that we time trial, of times that we had in the past like 6 months. everything you can but you simply don't know what don't have the eye for it yet. Rod held the best it wasn't exactly a fair fight. See, he was using Glider. This is arguably the best combo in the this is also the combo used in the world record on Mr. Scooty, instead of Teddy Buggy. The Teddy has 1 more mini-turbo. There's pretty much 3 faster or easier, thanks to its higher mini-turbo other portion of the track. It's close, but the Hyrule Circuit. And at this point, I was still one and I really wanted to keep playing Mr Scooty, trialing at 10 AM, and after we hung up the call, basically my entire day sitting at my desk, I finally gave in. It was just too hard. I made I finally managed to do it. [Music] I time trialed for 10 hours straight, to save I did not eat, I did nothing but time trial Hyrule else in that time. I somehow managed to tie my than my friend in this arbitrary challenge, with it done today. Okay, I'll admit, that's pretty had quit, then that means I'm a fraud who sucks at and I decided to play again. And I tell him that was an understatement. You ever have a really good which is painful, but also kinda nice, because feel your muscles growing? Of course not, you're a lot in one day. What I felt... was not that. It's and my fingers, and somehow even my shoulders and hands, it hurts to relax. It hurts to exist. Anyway, Rod reminded me of our vision, and my in. After another 2 hour call, we really began to break our records. Rod kept going after that, thinking what I'm thinking? Rod got this time in worse time. I really wanted to beat him back, but gets a 1:49.510. This is not his best time, but The next day, he shows me another close call, does Rod hold the 3 fastest runs between the two it took me to get the 4th ranked time. This, for I'm back to work, and my hands are not perfect, quite as good as Rod yet, but I'm knocking on I get a 1:49.514. All of my time loss was just on time with no problem. And just 8 minutes later, this one run containing my best ever lap 2, and my And I didn't stop there. That night, Rod and I killer run, and I'm feeling invincible. I have the amazing run. Noticing I'm near the end of lap 3, pull it off, and I noticed this out of the corner And I do it. I get a 1:49.130. Suddenly, I've 2 runs between us, and it's not even close. But interesting about our individual lap times. You record, that I was unable to beat. However, I was it's tempting to conclude that Rod is simply 3. But that's not the full story, and it actually give us a glimpse into the nature of speedrunning my fastest sum of 3 laps. Just by looking at lap. In fact, you don't even know my fastest time that I was very frequently beating Rod's lap 1 1 that was faster. In fact, our best times for do our records always seem to show that Rod's is that Rod simply resets more often. In any form And if you get off to a run that's really bad, record, so what most people do in this situation lap one is bad, he will reset to get a better an amazing lap one. it's simply because he will what do you think about this? This is extremely of the time. This is Alberto. It would not be time trial player of all time, in Mario Kart 8 since this game released, which is an incredible he averaged more than 1 world record per day. to say. I focus more on consistency and getting a bit worse on most tracks because of that and the So, [laughs] He just constantly restart from lap three can fall apart. Right, they don't get a lot resetting lap one. Exactly, because they don't get under pressure. Rod is a bot confirmed. And it's good runs with crazy good lap ones that I can investment and it's hard to say where exactly personally think that it's better to complete more never reset. Yeah, obviously you want to start otherwise you just be too slow. It's important you completely on that. And it's such an important don't do. Something a lot of people think of when is about getting a perfect run. If everything goes And I mean, perfect runs are possible in some the norm. In most cases, speedrunning is not about knowing that you will never get a perfect run, you how to do every portion of the Hyrule Circuit and I got you to practice each segment until you could put it all together, and break the world you tried long enough, you'd eventually break the I would say you have mastered just 1 out of the of exactly what to do. You just can't quite do consistency. The higher success rate that you have likely you will be able to put it all together consistent so you'll have to try many many times. Even though the whole point of speedrunning is to you will need to spend a lot of time in order if you know exactly what to do, and you're really technique 100% of the time. So the reality is, you manage to get a good run. And depending on your you think is your greatest strength that sets you my game knowledge. So yeah, a lot of people don't holds the world records but you've discovered a help of other people. On most tracks I've set a doesn't have to be like a big strat, but I found that your style of practice, uh, made you more very consistent. It was always natural. I just try think when you say something like, 'I just played, think that you may have just accidentally stumbled other people aren't doing that. That was always long run. For you that came naturally, but for something I never did when I was doing my random didn't feel good to continue a run that I know I don't judge anyone for like doing it that way to try and make it through to more runs because but it's not natural for me. Exactly, yeah, sense. Consistency is arguably the most important If I had perfect knowledge of what to do, but tool-assist level of knowledge. If I knew the it doesn't help if I'm not consistent enough. If fast technique, and I have to do it on all 3 it's not going to happen. Perfect knowledge is what about time? If you're willing to put all goal? For example, if I looked into the future, for 5 years straight, you will get a world record do that? For most of you, your answer is probably not even that important to you. Or imagine you had you would have quit by now? I might as well tell that's the same thing. Think about that for a reasonable amount of time, you will just never consistency? At that point, it would just be a not even the best techniques, just enough run would be the world record, because you would simple. Consistency is by far the most important enjoy just under 24 hours where I'm feeling great and Rod, and it's a pretty big gap. But it was a Rod is really good at Mario Kart. And the next time trialing, Rod sets his own new best time, the news for me. He is accepting bad lap one's now. 2 and lap 3. That's character development. Rod I wouldn't have it any other way. On February 21, 2 frames away from a 1:48. And what made this less than one hour to get it. Even though he takes after good time, not quite beating his record, This was a level of consistency that was scaring 1:50.766, which is not a good time on its own, but with a great lap three to go with it. That was this all happened over the span of less than time trialing. Less than 20 minutes in, I get a only is this the best lap three time we've ever meaning this could have been even better. This it takes. So I kept pushing forward. Soon after, one. I keep pushing. It then takes me over an hour reason is that I can't get low air on the trick at this point, we are no longer doing easy strats start of lap one properly, but it's so difficult into runs. And I know that Rod is much better resetting the beginning of lap 1 over and over, and eventually, this happened. [Music] On February 22nd, at 11 minutes past midnight, I I'm feeling at this moment. How did I improve by together. No mistakes, just a slight inaccuracy but overall, it's as close to a perfect run as was faster than my best ever lap three time. The to 1:48, and then says this: "I don't think I'm and it's like motivating, right? I mean, I'm at a similar skill level. Exactly, yeah. It's, uh, level as you. It's rare to, like, you know, have and forth. Yeah, our times were really close. each other by, like, .1, .2. You had a really, is less than two frames away from sub-1:49. In and you would have won. Like, it was so close. It not so close that it's, like, heartbreaking, like when I saw this, it was like, okay, my next not gonna beat Shortcat's time, and I don't really Shortcat, and I would have to, like, basically get this. Uh, I think that was my thought process. expect to get a near-perfect run. I mean, like, but --yeah. I got this close to it, and it wasn't that's kind of what happens when you get a run 'Cause, yeah, it was never meant to be like a and you won, and it's like, you know, good [Music] I wouldn't have had any regrets if I stopped right there. I achieved something and I could now say that Hyrule Circuit is one Circuit were improving as well, and that was nearly 3 months later, I had some extra time I just started time trialing Hyrule Circuit so now this is just for fun. I mean [Music] A 1:48.592. Thanks to my best ever lap one, I skipped right past .7, and .6, and now I'm this run, not just for how good it was, but I shared my new record with a group was none other than Alberto. And there's Pii, taught me a lot of advanced techniques. With this to contend with such a good time that it just time for another break, this time for just under 2 [Music] In just a matter of days, the so-called "near second. I was on pace to achieve a sub-1:48 run, than when I was trying to get a sub-1:49 run. I came back much stronger than before. How Taking a break from practicing a skill usually when you return. This is because you have regular memory, muscle memory fades over time, But this can work to your advantage, because while forcing you to conform to bad habits that you forget these habits, you now have a much easier for me was my mindset. When I got the 1:48.812, I was in a race with Rod. Now the thing is, the in order to reach that goal. I had no reason to because I'm not going for the world record. which does limit my potential, but it also since I'm using easier strategies. And this means by my own standards. But if I want to beat a run that is to increase my knowledge, and therefore drop in consistency, that's fine, because with up. So I began studying what I could do better on is the shroomless shortcut. Yeah, I So, as you've seen, this is the shroomless shortcut, or NISC, on Hyrule Circuit. At first to be done so fast on 150cc, without a mushroom. know that mini-turbo hopping on an upward slope is and just because it's an upward slope, you can going around. This is a tough technique to master practice the game will find this shortcut to be make it across. There are several ways to do this which is faster, or you can go to the left of the can land in a drift, and barely get a mini-turbo can take a wider turn to charge the mini-turbo, lap three. On lap three, the plant comes out, and otherwise you're losing lots of time. So that's shortcut, in a regular race. But in a high level things are a bit different. The good news is that one. The bad news is, the one way that you have Here, watch this version of the shortcut. Alright, now watch this version. Oh, did you not That's the difference between a good run and a you clip the grass as you exit the shortcut. If If you clip it like this, you now have to reset amount of time loss. You can lose up to half a say. These look so similar. How can I make sure I don't know. I'd love to know the answer to that. difference. I'm jumping farther on the shortcut just go farther. But anything you do to risk somehow dodging the grass completely like this way. So I guess the answer is just, be perfect. where the shadow meets the light, then left hop did I say hop as soon as I land? No, what I meant This game is so weird. If you input a hop as soon grass. You need to input a hop slightly before you period, causing you to get a frame perfect hop. you land. But how do you know when you're about visual indication of when you're about to land from behind you, it only shows up for a few frames of human reaction time. In other words, there is land. But okay, we're doing the shortcut the you land with the same timing every time? Well, not going to hop on the exact same position and you release your mini-turbo even slightly earlier Good luck taking that into account when timing hop, your position might be slightly off from But okay, let's say that by some miracle, you got that can happen, you now have to quickly react to The second one looks like this. They look the slide off the grass. On the second one, I bounced one I get, the inputs I have to do are completely Daisy's arms to see which way I'm steering. Okay, this turn normally by making adjustments both left bounce off the grass, then you will temporarily whole time to compensate for the traction loss. exited the shortcuts, you have to do completely line afterwards. And remember, these two only look for the traction loss. If you don't notice that is exactly what happened in my 1:48.812, that end of the run. And of course, this nuance could you even got the fast shortcut to begin with. I came to time trials to take luck out of the is basically RNG. When I play time trials in ability to do precise inputs. But when I do this random scenario, and testing my ability to adapt kind of skill. It's the same type of skill that with the infinite situations that random items in time trials. But then I realized. Isn't that nothing is truly random in time trials, but it same inputs every time is random. Every time, you and then you have to adapt to that difference in can get more and more skilled to the point where and still succeed. But at the end of the day, control. And this is something I never understood time trials were about hitting a precise sequence if that's truly what it was all about, I don't trials, and spend all day doing this. In the Kart forces you to come up with solutions to a greater amount of skill, time trials are much be factors that are beyond your own control. Some But what separates the exceptional players is Practically speaking, 1:47 is the final full second barrier on Hyrule Circuit, at which point it's possible to get a 1:46, as proven by the done it. If I could snag a 1:47, that would put me in the world. So, on July 9th, I was back at it. [Music] Again, I was able to quickly improve, this time from a sub-1:47 time, and honestly, it was quite point the run, it was going so well that the ghost I make the shortcut perfectly, but get the low mistake. With a slightly cleaner ending, I could an incredibly fast run up to this point, you second, or you will miss these rare opportunities. I managed to get a 1:48.043, which features my why couldn't I have done this lap three, or even the good thing is, I have the confidence that I close each of these were to being a 1:47, I have to get a 1:47. I am skilled enough to achieve it done is a different story. [Music] When I'm playing well, I really want to take possible. But by 3 AM, I was starting to get it becomes easy to convince yourself to keep How can I just go to bed with 2 failures on my It's so obvious, but it's actually important. going to improve. Right. Let's say, usually, When I'm not playing well, maybe I get a what happens is when I finally do get a good run, 'This is so rare, I really need to take it becomes very important suddenly, that you have another chance. Also, I'm not playing well right that before for sure. If you play when you're dying, and you're not getting any runs, it becomes point, and most people don't realize that. After and I took another 2 week break. [Music] Are you kidding me? 0.002? That is less than 1 frame away. And the worst part is I didn't even do 1 and lap 2, and I went into lap 3 slightly behind a great lap 3, and I did just that! But it wasn't When you do everything right, but it just wasn't try again. Even though you were so close you could may as well forget you were even there. But at the to the journey of every speedrunner. Even though in a way, this run is a success, because from this the most important aspects, and perhaps one of goal. Confidence is the belief in yourself that but you cannot just conjure confidence out of themself at the end of a movie. No, confidence And to do that, you need evidence. I could say record". But that will not make me confident. I have no reason to believe it, because I have unrealistic goal. And when I fail, I will feel I cannot achieve my goals. But I have evidence set a new personal record today, because on many when I get a fast pace into lap 3, my hands start I will not doubt myself. I'm confident, because And if I fail on lap 3... no, when I fail on lap 3, is enough to get me to hit restart, and try again. that one, maybe the one after, or after that. It Hope is not based on anything, and in the face of doubt. But I'm not hoping. I'm confident that close calls is not that I'm a failure, but that I success. And that is why I keep trying. Exactly this happened. [Music] I did it. It was an incredible feeling. thought would be possible for yourself. To think getting frustrated at myself, for 10 hours which is an elite level record. The same number the world have, next to their name. I now have Alberto has something to say. [Music] Alberto wants me to try to get top 10 in the Alberto! I'm just a short cat! I'm not the guy. Okay, I don't have to get top 10 in the and I can't make any more progress. What I've done and I learned a lot about time trials, about there, and about myself what I do in the face of of this, I'll make a video just about my journey and it'll make a great video either way. You said Alberto, why would make such an outlandish for--it's a relatively short amount of time, so eventually. Okay, so you weren't just saying yeah. That's crazy. I, myself, wanted to see like a huge deal to see Shortcat getting top 10. against everything that made sense to me, I was going to watch my run and give me I have to beat Alberto's record on Hyrule Circuit. with the feedback. [Music] Uhh, the chain is stronger?? Yeah, yeah, the about. Um, look, a lot of what Alberto told me was at least with my current understanding of the so sometimes I can feel myself naturally getting that I, myself, should be the expert on. But then, I find it really important to recognize now, I'm not the teacher. I'm the student, and I best student in the world. So I took and started practicing. For the first time in skills, instead of just spamming runs until I got my best individual lap times, I knew what my and 3 times, were 36.877, 35.488, and 35.295. of 1:47.660, which is impressive, but completely to get better. As I implemented some of I quickly realized something. What he I just needed to practice it a bit, and guessed it? But that doesn't mean I can just went up, but my consistency has dropped. together a full run. But that's okay, because order to reach the summit. And just over [Music] A 1:47.789. Another huge improvement, but this one refining my run, and this run was incredibly and lap 3, and in fact, this was my fastest lap lap 2. For the first time, I started thinking do this. And as you've probably noticed, this is been racing against my own ghosts this whole time, new personal best. So that's why nothing you've I realized I might be making a video out of this regardless, from now on, I'm going to record all you first started getting really good at Mario which is still insane to think about. Yeah. Uh, my age, or a bit younger now. Oh, okay. Wow, [laughs] [Music] This is the only run I've ever had that wasn't in the back of my mind, that even my best ever I just play it safe, I'll get a new personal in the world. What would you choose? My alignment line next to the grass. I was rapidly losing time, but I know I can make it back on the shortcut. and I know that his lap 3 shortcut is ever so been in this situation before. I've practiced I've clutched lap threes before. But I've never turn, it's already lost. It is not possible to as if in protest of reality, I try to take the and the grass gets me. Hey, that's But I didn't celebrate. This was my chance, create for myself for months now. I don't this run would have been a low 1:47.6. That's not whatever. It makes no difference. I can [Music] For the first time ever, I was ahead of Alberto going into lap 3, and the shock I felt, plus the a mistake that I never make. But after another [Music] What you're seeing here all happened within but these were all heartbreaking failures. Any lap 3 just had to be so good. And yeah, doing shortcut is basically luck. But I'm making, let's mistakes that I should be making. So, I had to And on this day, I only played really well for I did what I do best, and I took a 2 week break. late 20s. It's not, like, too old to learn like, I know when all the best players got was very different from the age I am now. Most I do feel like that's sort of--if you're going at something, that's kind of the age where people perfect age to improve quickly, that's what I'm everyone knows that when you're younger, like, you you're older, you're smarter, and you should be people don't really talk about is that when you're want something. You know, like, 'If I can do this, you feel the need to meet your goals--you just the break, I came back a bit rusty. It took but I managed to get a pretty decent run. Since unnecessary risk again, which might have cost me I had definitely shaken off the rust. I had I had ever kept Alberto off my screen until the 2 cost me the lead. 10 minutes later, I'm doing and I get a slow shortcut and get planted. 20 off screen again until the lap 2 glider, almost kept it together to give myself a fighting chance I managed to somehow keep pace with him. If I I'm starting to doubt myself. See, failing the only get the fast shortcut about one third of the nature of probability is that I'm going to have and I'm going to have cold streaks, where I to tell myself that I'm in the middle of a lap 3 right? I mean, I literally make the shortcut on during lap 3. But making it 3 times in a row is to make it here more often, that way I give myself failure, it becomes more and more difficult to telling myself, if I can do it on lap 1, and And sure enough, later that day, I finally did it. run perfectly. Yeah, it's not quite the same when this run is not my personal best, I consider this truly died was at the end of lap 2, where I got a mistake the entire run, and this, reignited the the very next day, this happened. [Music] Other than being quite a solid run, this run was I actually completed it. I don't know if you a run without mistakes, was 18 days ago. I had completing a run gave me a new personal best. but I actually got emotional. And I realized in Remember this? The one where I was tied going but made it up on the shortcut, panicked, and denial, I drove straight into the grass. I didn't I decided that my personal best does not matter. what, and getting top 10 in the world. In fact, if this run would have still been much faster than getting emotional over a new personal best, that's even the fastest run I've achieved? Well, this is Alberto's record. I didn't realize it before, but my own record. My expectations were set so high into lap 3, maybe 2 times per day. And once I'm getting 2 tries to set a personal best lap time. triggered a slump. I set the goalpost too far, I failure caused me to lose confidence in myself. enough of the first two, and I could just do the goal. But here's the funny thing about time. It down, pick up my controller, play for at least an not today, then grind this track at full focus at a lap 3, or maybe even no chances, but if I do because what I'm demanding of myself is just too this for another day. And another. And another. progress, and convincing myself that throwing when I could be doing literally anything else. And I cannot do this. I cannot beat Alberto's time. I Maybe I can't. But at least, I know I can beat my long time without improvements because you just you very quickly. You need to improve often So, I took a 3 week break. [Music] Alright, look. Best pace ever going into lap 3, you might call this in the world. [Music] This run died pretty early. and that ended it. But I've found that it really just to prove to myself that I can still do [Music] A 1:47.616, a new personal best. On this run, which essentially means the run is dead, that's not what I'm going for here. I just want I did not fail myself. It is such a rare occasion and I need all the experience I can get. Even it up a little bit, and give myself a slightly I'm so close. [Music] 1:47.561, another new personal best. And this a slightly worse line to dodge the rock, wait, the rock. I don't know that this could have have lost this opportunity, I'm just happy to get Alberto. And I'm still improving. You know what? truly good enough to do it now. On September 23rd without absolutely no good results. It was at 12:59 PM, this happened. [Music] There's no doubt about it, this was absolutely a run feels like. And what you're about to witness, [Music] Just 5 minutes later, I somehow got my now my 2nd best time ever. The first but this run had absolutely no [Music] In this run, I had a slow lap 1, and a slightly seconds going into lap 3, which pretty much finish it anyway, for practice. For the 3rd 3 time. If I can pull out lap 3's like this, keep trying. [Music] I'm barely ahead going into lap 3, but somehow, 3 glider, which is extremely rare for me. So until the shortcut, and save time right at which only keeps pace with Alberto, I improvised I got the fast shortcut, like I had done plenty I can do is try to get back to this point again, I finish lap 1 with a solid lead. On lap 2, I up on my screen during the glider. So I tried to quite tight enough. Alberto starts to catch up to suboptimal exit on the lap 2 shortcut, and I'm really fast. And somehow, I'm keeping up. I only lap, and all I need to do is hit this shortcut. [Music] I really tried, man. I got a good took the next turn, and it was actually fine. But, way too much. I was set up for a better line than the turn tightly. It's like the universe is You have to fail the ending in every possible now? I can get amazing lap 3's. This lap 3 was at the end. But hey, I kept up with Alberto for I can beat his lap 3 time. So I'm going to stay playing so well right now. I can do this today. It no, it didn't just pass. I was grinding out runs nothing to show for it. But then, unexpectedly, [Music] I was only ahead by 0.1 after lap 1, which usually means the run is already dead. But keep going, and get some practice on the final 2 to save some time. Alright, now this run is alive. that's always a good sign. I just have to keep because I've done it so many times, just today. extended my lead. Suddenly, everything feels exactly what needs to happen. I'm ahead by enough even matters at this point. As long as I nail the get it right here. [Music] This one hurt the most. I played incredibly, And I actually kept up with Alberto for 2 entire this shortcut is, essentially, a dice this is something I can fail. I just have I just got unlucky. Again. And as long as I get shortcut. But my hands are hurting. It's been played. I don't know, maybe today was the best these runs. [Music] An hour later, I am on nearly the best with Alberto still off screen. I remind and this lap 3 is doable. I take the stairs a the exact same situation I was in 1 hour and it's okay if I've failed, This one was... not a good run. I'm which is not possible to overcome. But it on lap 3. [Music] After all these runs that could have been the run single lap 2 or lap 3 that was faster than his. My and just not lose too much on the rest of the me. But look at this. I can be better. I'm better Circuit. I've been so close, so many times, no, not even close. And I know that I because I can be better on this track. I can Yes! Yes! Let's go. I didn't think I beat it. .516, .516 I just didn't--I just forgot. It wasn't a good lap 3 [laughs]. I almost choked it at the end. I've been working on this for months. I beat Alberto [laughs] I'm top 10! Yes! Yeah, I'm uploading that. Wow, it was a five coin run. That's crazy. Oh these stairs are so bad. I think this could so bad. That was really close shortcut, so it was um--that was close. It was right hands. [laughs] I was like, I've never been and these stairs are not very good. That's where was also not very good. The shortcut--I and I thought I choked it again. I thought I second. That's less than one frame, by the way. I'll have a sub .5. I couldn't do it. I That one was for you, Rod--the red Yoshi. Look seven, eight, nine? Oh, I--I'm tied for ninth! big dogs! Shortcat with the big dogs! Let's go! [Music] Yeah, so what really made me want this--like, [laughs] but--of course. Also, like, as an adult, we kind of limit what we think we can and can't do If I was younger, maybe I could become so much like when I was younger, and it was nothing like you were talking about. Yeah. I, like, I pursued at them, but, like, never top-in-the-world you know, all day to spend on it and think about that I didn't have back then is, now I have better the right things to do. I'm better at controlling most people that try a record for the first time exactly. But, like, I had to learn these, I didn't I don't know if you put me back to 10 years done better than I did today. And so, what made that there are certain things that I still can improve at it. Yeah, I guess so. I never thought maybe part of what allowed me to want it so much I get to try and prove this for people all around