My name is Kurt Wise, a professor at Truett McConnell University in Cleveland, Georgia. I want to talk to you today about Mount St. Helens and what we learned from it, or what we were supposed to have learned from it. It's kind of a, for many of you, it's probably before your time, 1980, but for me, I was in undergraduate school in a geology program in my junior year when the explosion occurred, and it was a very exciting event for me. I learned a lot of geology because of Mount St. Helens. So, before the eruption, 1979 and before, Mount St. Helens was known as America's Mount Fuji. It was an almost perfectly shaped volcano that people would think of, stereotypically, as a volcano. A beautiful location, oft visited for the lake experience right beneath the mountain, and just a wonderful place to visit. What happened on March 20th of 1980 is an earthquake, not a very strong earthquake, Richter 4.2, on the Richter scale, something many people wouldn't actually feel at all, but seismometers did. And even though the earthquake was centered several miles, I think it was five miles beneath the surface, and some 13 miles or so away from the mountain, it nonetheless alerted geologists immediately. Because Mount St. Helens is an active volcano, in the sense, not dormant. It had before that an eruption history of every couple hundred years, and it had been a couple hundred years since it erupted. It's part of a series of volcanoes that are active and occasionally erupt. And this earthquake, though it was small and some distance away from the mountain, it was most probable that it was alerting us to the fact that lava was moving towards the mountain and would soon lead to an eruption. One day later, the next day, there were actually several earthquakes that occurred, each one moving closer to the mountain. By the following day, there were several earthquakes an hour, and the earthquakes had moved to underneath the mountain and were moving up towards the center of the mountain. By March 27th, one week, just exactly one week after the first earthquake, we entered a system of what are called harmonic tremors. These are about 20,000 earthquakes an hour that indicate that lava is churning, rolling, and it was directly underneath the mountain. There was no doubt in anyone's mind that Mount St. Helens was about to erupt. Within a couple days, there was in fact a small eruption. An ash cloud on the top of the mountain could be seen, and it left behind a bit of a crater on the top of the mountain. Also the ash also on top of the snow cap. But we also saw cracks in the ice on the top of the mountain, indicating that the mountain was deforming, was beginning to change its shape, because again, presumably the lava moving up from underneath. Again, geologists were absolutely convinced that there was a big eruption coming, and this confirmed it. The United States Geological Survey set up a temporary trailer in Vancouver, Washington, the closest large city to Mount St. Helens, and began monitoring the mountain. I couldn't help but I had to take a picture of this. You go inside that trailer, and on the wall is this volcano control sign. How ironic, because we can't do a thing about controlling volcanoes. The best we can do is control people. We can't even do that very well. What they began doing is they set up seismometers on the mountain. This machine here, which was in that trailer, is monitoring three different seismometers. When you use multiple seismometers, you can locate individual earthquakes in three dimensions, and determine exactly where they're at. What would happen is some 45 seismometers, as I remember, were focused on the mountain, brought into the area surrounding the mountain. It became the most geologically studied volcano in history, very quickly. Also, what was set up were tiltimeters. You see on this wall, again in this trailer, are being monitored four of them. These paper, tick paper, coming off of them. What these things are, lasers that are set on the valley, on the other side of the valley from the mountain, in various positions. Lasers shoot to a mirror set up on the mountain, and shoot back to a detector. The idea is that these lasers can detect small changes in tilt. They're called tiltimeters. They're sensitive enough, so they say, to be able to tell if you've got a mile-long ruler, and you slip a dime underneath one end of the ruler. It's supposed to be able to pick up that tilt. I'll comment on that a little bit, kind of the irony of what was set up. Again, several tiltimeters set up to make sure we understood exactly what the mountain was doing, how it was being deformed by the lava. And then, of course, what was also done is the USGS government began getting residents out of the area. A study that had been done less than 10 years before, actually I think it was only about four or five years before, had actually... it was a dissertation. Somebody actually figured out what the risk would be if Mount St. Helens actually erupted. Now the assumption that the person made in making this risk assessment was that the eruption would come straight up from the mountain. But based upon that, the USGS set up three zones. A red zone... maybe it was just two. Red zone and a blue zone, I remember. In the red zone, a certain few miles away from the center of the mountain, everybody was to be evacuated and no one was to be ever let into that region once they had been evacuated. The blue zone outside of that, which went out for some 13-14 miles, evacuated the residents. But they allowed people to come in to visit the mountain. Geologists, for example, and even spectators, if there were conditions, if you came in and always maintained visual sighting of the mountain, and you were able to get out of that area in 20 minutes, they figured that that would be safe enough if people could see the eruption and skedaddle out of there, get out of there before the negative effects of the eruption got to them. And again, that's going to be important in a moment here. Meanwhile, the mountain continues to deform. The deformation that we saw on the 30th of March with the crater and the Beerschrund breaking on the glaciers was followed by this particular crater increasing in size, a second crater showing up, further breaking of the top of the mountain. And this is in the matter of days to where we have a huge... the two craters actually came together in size. Here's a plane for scale. There's clearly a very serious major deformation of the mountain. And they almost missed it. The irony that I spoke about before is it turned out that the tiltimeters which were set up on the mountain, they're made to determine a change in dip or tilt between two different positions. Ironically, what happened is they ended up setting each tiltimeter up on a piece of rock, if you wish, which crosses an entire valley. I mean, this is a huge area. Where both ends of it moved up and down in the same way, no change in relative tilt. And they realized that when they looked at photographs taken from the ground, compared the photographs from day to day, that the mountain was deforming, but it wasn't being picked up on the tiltimeters. They quickly switched the tiltimeters to different positions and realized at that point that the north face of the mountain was bulging outward at 50 feet per day. It was like a pregnant... the normal angled slope was bulging out. And it was very clear at that point that we had a very serious problem. The eruption was probably about to come. That leads us to May 18th, 1980. Here's a picture of the sunrise over the mountain. At 17 seconds after 8.32 a.m. on Sunday, May 18th, 1980, there was an earthquake which was located at the base of that bulge, that pregnant bulge on the front of the mountain, the north face of the mountain, which broke the rocks which were holding that bulge in place. Which then immediately that bulge then began sliding down the side of the mountain. A half cubic kilometer of rock basically kind of liquefied and began a slide. This is a picture taken by a... there's a plane flying around the mountain at this point. And fortunately, it was in just the perfect position. If they had been even two seconds behind, they would have been blown out of the sky by the subsequent eruption. But as it turned out, they circled the mountain and went on to the safe side of the mountain just in time. But the photographer took a picture here. Here is that double crater, which can't even be seen as two craters anymore. Huge deformation of the top of the mountain. And what's happening is we're seeing rocks that are falling off the edge of this precipice. And this part of the picture, this whole area, the bulge, is liquefying and moving out of sight. So he took this picture probably two seconds after this particular time, somewhere around 19 seconds after the earth... two seconds after the earthquake. And we've got rocks falling down here and then the beginning of the avalanche. And here's the next photograph taken from this. So the bulge that was up here has already moved down the mountain. A half cubic mile of debris is sliding down the side of the north face of the mountain. By the time it reaches the bottom, it's going to be moving at about 200 miles an hour. And causing some other problems and issues. Here we see a side view taken from some 12 miles away by a person who's taking some last minute shots. And fortunately got out of here because the subsequent photographs are going to see the eruption come straight towards him. And he jumps into his car and tears off down the mountain and just barely got out alive. But he did get these spectacular shots. And this is a protrusion on the side of the mountain that was there before the mountain erupted. So we have it for scale. The bulge was behind that and already the bulge has moved down and is disappearing out of sight. And behind it, as we'll see in a moment, once we take a half cubic kilometer of rock off the top of the mountain, an eruption will occur. Two eruptions. One that moves to the north and one that goes straight up. And the clouds of those things are beginning to be shown in this photograph. The avalanche material. This is a picture taken with the back to the mountain. The avalanche came down the side of the mountain into Spirit Lake. The lake to the north of the mountain. The material goes in and fills where the lake was with 700 feet of debris. And a bunch of it continued on up the valley on the other side. So this is going to create a dam that will hold back the lake. Also, the material as it came down basically pushed all the water out of the lake and created a 900 foot high tidal wave of water that was in the lake. It scrapes everything off the side of this valley over here. And by the time the water comes back down, it's now 250 feet higher than it was before because a bunch of this avalanche material is filling that lake basin. Here's another photograph. Sorry for the quality of them. Some of my slides were compromised by fire in my office a number of years ago. But this is part of that area that was swept clean of debris by the tidal wave and the avalanche deposit. At the end of that, once the avalanche material had settled, which would be about right here, the lake, which is reformed behind it, is cut off from the sea by the avalanche material. And floating on top of the lake is an estimated 1 million logs that were captured by the water as it came up the side of this hill and brought back down into the lake. There's... let's see... I guess it's an appropriate time to state this too. As I said, as the avalanche material came off of the mountain, it allowed an explosion to occur behind it. The explosion actually overtook the avalanche material. By the time the avalanche was just getting to the lake, the explosion behind it had actually overtaken it and hit those trees before the water did. And the temperature of what the French call &quot;enoue ardent&quot; was about 500 degrees centigrade. We know from what it did to objects that it encountered. And it vaporized all of the branches, the leaves, most of the soil, leaving only the main trunks, which it then also broke off, all facing in one direction. So when the tidal wave comes across here, it's picking up logs. In many cases, there is very little bark on them. There's certainly no branches. They're just little toothpicks that are 80 feet tall that are then brought back into the lake to make up the estimated 1 million logs on the lake. Again, that left a dam. The avalanche material created a dam that held back the water of the lake so that what would happen is water is going to enter by rainfall and so on, raising the level of the lake, but it's blocked from the sea until the water gets to this high point. That's going to be a concern to the United States Geological Survey in the years to follow, because we had already experienced multiple times landslides that dam up a lake. The lake then takes years to work its way up to where it can top the dam, and when it does, it takes out the dam catastrophically and kills lots of people and destroys cities. So, this is going to cause, in the years to follow, the government is going to say, &quot;Hey, we can't let this lake build up to the point where it comes back over the top of that dam.&quot; So they begin, soon after the eruption, a drilling project that drills three miles through a mountain over here to intercept the lake and drain the lake out to avoid the lake taking out this dam and making further destruction downstream. And we're going to come back to that in a moment, the consequences. So here's another picture looking from towards the mountain. You see the missing material that landslided down the side of the mountain, and then the avalanche material that filled the valley and blocked the lake behind it. Again, that avalanche material as it slides off the mountain, all of a sudden, instantly, the material that was immediately underneath it has been relieved of the pressure of the weight of a half cubic mile of rock. So pressure drops catastrophically, and it allows for what's underneath, which was full of water, which was heated to a temperature of about 300-400 degrees centigrade, and was not in the form of steam, because it was being held in place by the rock above it under such pressure that it was actually water, very hot water under high pressure. And as soon as we took the top off of it, though, drops the pressure down to atmospheric pressure, that water flashes into steam, expands catastrophically, and produces a huge explosion. It's kind of like, I don't know, the best way I try to describe it is, you take a can of soda, heat it up to 300-400 degrees, shake it 20,000 earthquakes an hour for three weeks, and then pop the top. You're going to have an explosion. It's an explosion the equivalent of 22 megaton bombs. 22 A-bombs in power. And you see again the beginning of that explosion here, just after the material is sliding down the side of the mountain. You see this advancing. This last photo, again taken by that same individual. These little white marks here are actually rocks the size of houses that are being tossed 13 miles away from the mountain, landing in these rocks scattered over. It's from the mountain itself, tossed 12 to 13 miles away from the mountain. The size of houses! They look like just little tiny things here, but this is a huge explosion. This is an amazing explosion. Satellite photo just before the eruption. These are just a few seconds apart. You see the explosion billowing. You see a shock wave that's moving away from the mountain. This shock wave is potentially hearable because it is a sound wave in the atmosphere, but its wavelength is huge. So it's too big to be heard. It's too large of a wavelength to be heard by humans. It had to run. The closest people heard it was 75 miles away. It's got to move 75 miles to lose enough energy to actually become hearable as a big sonic boom. So everyone is hearing a sonic boom 75 miles away from the mountain as the shock wave moves into the atmosphere, creating clouds as it moves through. It's really cool stuff. Wild stuff. Now that explosion, because the avalanche took out the north side of the mountain, the explosion didn't go straight up, such as was expected by that early study. It went laterally to the north. It went up and to the north. And so it moved across the landscape, again, roughly based upon what it did to various materials and its path. It's got about 500 degrees centigrade material that's moving at 2-300 miles an hour. It destroys 156 square miles of forest in 8 minutes. If you remember what I said about the evacuation, they said, &quot;Hey, if you can get into this area 13 miles away and be able to get out in 20 minutes, we'll let you come in.&quot; It took 8 minutes for this material to get to that 13 mile mark. So everybody that was in the Blue Zone to the north of the volcano was killed. It was amazingly fast. It's taken very mature forest, very large trees. Here's a picture of the volcano back here. The Nuit-Ardant came over this hill and took out all the trees, vaporizing the branches, the leaves, much of the bark. And then breaking the trees off, they look like little toothpicks, but they're not. They're humongous trees. This would have gone over this ridge probably about 6 or 7 seconds after the eruption, the explosion, and would have taken out all these trees and the matter wouldn't have been able to see it, but probably in just a few seconds. It came down this valley in probably about 2 minutes, taking out a total of 4 billion board feet of lumber in 8 minutes. Here we've got those trees laid down in one direction as the Nuit-Ardant came across here. Scale! Human beings down there. These are very big trees. They look like toothpicks, but they're not. It's an awesome event. Picture before Mount St. Helens erupted from the satellite. The red would be indicating vegetation, mostly trees of different types. Here's Spirit Lake off to the north of the mountain. And this is what 8 minutes after the eruption it looked like. It wiped out 156 square miles of forest. The blowdown... these are pictures taken soon after the eruption. I mean, it shattered trees, breaking them off, flipping humongous vehicles over, log moving vehicles over. It also generated the explosion. The eruption also generated mudflows. At the time this occurred, which is in March, there's a pretty big snow pack that's on the mountain. There are glaciers on the mountain. All of that material melted, adding to the... and when you add to that the pulverized rock, you end up with these mudflows that move down the rivers, downstream of what was Spirit Lake's outlet. It caused a tremendous amount of damage. And again, logging trucks are just tossed around in this fashion. Even 20 miles away, I took this photo, where somebody's shoveling snow in the winter. You've got to shovel mud. Three feet of mud that covered this person's house and area, 20 miles away from the mountain. Devastation was just incredible. There's a picture taken from the north, looking to the south towards the mountain, and there's nothing living anywhere in that direction. Turn around and face this way, where the avalanche material, there's nothing alive in view. You look everywhere to the east, everywhere to the west. As far as you can see in all directions, there's devastation. The beautiful Mount Fuji-shaped volcano before the eruption lost 1300 feet of the mountain in a matter of seconds. It went from something like the 8th tallest mountain out there to the 13th tallest mountain in a matter of seconds. A half cubic mile of material came off the top of the mountain. Now, once the initial explosion was over, the eruption began. At this point, then, the main eruption of Mount St. Helens proceeds. It goes vertical. It's now responding to the magma that's underneath. It's releasing an estimated one atomic bomb of energy per second for nine straight hours. That's a lot of bombs. Here, again, a satellite photo. After the initial shock wave has dissipated, we can see that what the eruption is doing is it's taking rock, pulverizing it into microscopic dust, and tossing it 60,000 feet up into the atmosphere. Here we see that dust plume directly over the mountain. Then the westerly winds began blowing it across the state of Washington into Utah and into Montana, producing an average of about 3/8 of an inch of dust over that entire region. The city of Yakima, I think it's 50 miles to the east, or something like that, at noon the street lights come on because the ash is blocking and obscuring the sun. And, of course, it does a great amount of damage at this point. A total of 57 lives are lost in the process. One is a resident. A famous individual. He's got the same name as a former president, but he's not Harry Truman the former president. He's Harry Truman, a resident that lived right on Spirit Lake. He can see the mountain from his porch. He refused to move. He refused to be evacuated. He said, he's an octogenarian, he says, &quot;She's been there for my entire life. She ain't blown up until now. She's not going to do it now.&quot; There's some colorful language that I took out of what he was saying there. But he believed that in his lifetime, and his parents' lifetime, it hadn't exploded, so it wasn't going to explode in his lifetime. That's a warning to us, by the way. That's what people are going to do in the end times. It hasn't done anything in my generation or our previous generations, so it's not going to do it now. God isn't going to come back. The Lord isn't going to come back. But the fact is that just a few seconds after the initial earthquake, starting this, that avalanche material came right on top of him. He was dead within seconds of the beginning of the eruption. There's also one geologist who had stationed himself to observe the mountain. He was on the hill directly opposite the mountain on the north side. He had said himself, when he was visited a couple of days earlier by an interviewer, that, &quot;Yeah, if she explodes, I'm dead. That's all there is to it.&quot; We know the exact time of the eruption because he picked up his microphone and said, &quot;Vancouver, Vancouver, this is it.&quot; That was the last we heard of him. He was literally blown off of his ledge there. There's also 55 others that were photographers, curious observers, that were in that blue zone. This was a couple, two people, a man and a woman, in this truck. The truck was faced directly towards the mountain. They were obeying the rules there. The man's got a camera sitting on his steering wheel. He's obviously taking a photograph of the explosion as it occurs. They were boiled alive, 500 degrees centigrade, nuit-a-radent, and dead within seconds. Following the eruption, the big crater that was the place where that half-cubic mile of material slid off, it began growing a lava dome soon after the eruption. That lava dome would be kicked out by a subsequent eruption. Another lava dome would come in. This is about 700 foot high lava dome. It's kind of hard to tell from scale. I think something like five of these things in succession grew in the middle of the volcano and were kicked out by smaller, subsequent eruptions. So, that's the story, which is just fun. It's an amazing story to tell. Astonishing thing. But what did we learn from, or should have learned from, Mount St. Helens? One thing that's interesting is the year before the eruption occurred, Stephen Austin, a creationist who was finishing up at Penn State University, his PhD, actually was trying to explain coal seam, the Kentucky 12 coal seam of western Kentucky. And the conventional model of a swamp didn't seem to fit the description of what he found in the coal. And so he suggested that coal, this particular coal seam, and you could project it to others, actually formed by a floating mat of logs. The idea was there are a bunch of logs floating around on a body of water. The logs roll against one another, peeling off the bark from those logs. The bark falls down to the bottom, accumulates in layers thick enough to be made into coal subsequently. And Steve Austin defended that dissertation less than one year before Mount St. Helens produced a log mat of one million logs on Spirit Lake. Hey, it's a field test of his hypothesis. And of course, he had to go into the lake, dive down to see if in fact there's bark, because he got all these logs floating on the surface, the logs would roll against one another, should, according to his theory, peel off the bark, the bark should accumulate at the bottom of the lake, and perhaps that could at some point be formed into coal. This is a crazy stupid thing to do. This is something you should not tell your mother that you're going to do, or your wife that you're going to do. They're going to scuba dive in about 38 degree water. The visibility is less than 12 feet. It's kind of like Steve described it as kind of like iced tea in composition. And he's going to go nearly 100 feet down to the bottom, absolute darkness. And you've got an active volcano behind you that this lava dome here is not long after this picture is taken, an eruption is going to kick that lava dome out into this location and would kill anybody that would be doing this. Plus, you're diving under a log mat with these logs vary up to four feet in diameter. And if you dive down, log mat blows over the top of you and you bring your head up in between two of those kind of logs, you're going to be crushed to death. You're going to be torn to pieces. So it's a really bad idea to do, but of course, you couldn't help it. You've got to do it. And sure enough, down at the bottom, he found bark at the bottom. In some places, it was up to three feet of bark on the bottom of the lake. So it verified that, in fact, this idea of floating logs could, in fact, generate bark-based peat. That could ultimately describe, could form into coal and explain why coal has flat bottom surface, because that would have been the surface of the lake before the bark begins falling down. And it would explain benches, periods, if the log mat blows around in the lake and blows away from a region where it's been depositing, then mud could come in from the side and even bring in fossils and organisms and get buried in there. And then when the log mat blows back over the area, it could resume the deposition of bark. And that would explain why the eastern coals are made of chunks of bark, just like he found at the bottom of the lake, why they have flat bases, flat tops, and they have these occasional benches or seats in between. Also explain why, if you follow the coal off to the far enough in any direction, you end up grading into marine sediments. These would be the sediments in which the, that are formed from the water that the logs are floating in. Now it would take a whole lot more logs than a million logs that are found on Spirit Lake. That's obvious. But it does suggest that if you have a big enough ocean, like the Gobel Ocean at the time of the flood, and you have enough trees, such as all the trees of the world being destroyed in the flood and floating, many of them floating on the surface, then you could potentially explain the coal seams of the world. Also, an observation that was made by Harold Coffin one day when he was sitting eating his lunch, looking out at the water, he noticed that there were some twigs floating vertically in the water. It caused him to consider, because he's interested, he had been studying a petrified forest, that is a very famous petrified forest that's found in Yellowstone National Park, and trying to figure out how to explain vertical trees that look like they were grown in place, that could be deposited somehow in a vertical position underwater. He saw these sticks and realized that, well, sticks can float vertically. So postulated that entire logs could occasionally float vertically. Perhaps logs that have root structures that, let's say, they've grabbed up some stones or something like that. That causes that end of the log to be heavier and causes it to float vertically. That hypothesis was verified in the Mount St. Helens explosion, or following it, because among the logs that were floating in the lake, the million logs that were floating in the lake, some of them floated vertically. In some places there's a whole bunch of these verticals. And again, Steve Austin diving has got some pictures of these floaters. Some of the floaters you can't even see at the surface because they're floating beneath the surface, but they're floating vertically. And so the idea that if you again have enough of these logs, that a bunch of them would float vertically and get waterlogged, fall down to the bottom, and remain in that vertical position while they were buried. Steve, as a matter of fact, to test this hypothesis, at his first dive he went down to the bottom and just selected an area that was some size, I think it was five meters by five meters. I can't remember exactly what he said it was, but he marked it off on the bottom and determined the position by GPS at the surface and came back the next time he dove. Wouldn't you know it, it's the luck of the guy who actually does a dissertation on this one year, before you get a field example of it. What had happened in between setting that grid in and coming back again, is a very large tree about three feet in diameter, with the root structure at the base of it, settled right down in the middle of his plot. And it had not yet gotten covered with silt. And so he was actually able to push the thing over and it would come right back up again, demonstrating that it had waterlogged and fallen down to the bottom. And side-scan sonar done subsequently from the surface. Here we have John Morris from the Institute of Creation Research, dragging a sonar buoy behind the little boat. They were able to see shadows of vertical structures on the bottom of the lake that they infer to have been trees. The density based upon this study was basically the same density of trees that existed in that forest before the eruption occurred. So if you drain the lake all of a sudden, it would look like there was a vertical... a bunch of vertical trees in the same density as in a forest, standing vertical to the bottom as if it had grown in place. When none of them had grown in place, all of them had settled down to the bottom. This in fact allowed Steve Austin and Harold Coffin to go back to the petrified forest in Yellowstone and suggest that those vertical trees there were not necessarily grown in place, but in fact had floated in place, had dropped down, being waterlogged in a body of water. And there are in fact many evidences that have been found in these sediments, including the fact that they were found in volcanic sediments, that are consistent with this hypothesis, and allows this deposit to be reinterpreted in a catastrophic fashion rather than a traditional fashion. Other things we've learned... Deltas were formed very rapidly after the eruption. This is one example, Harmony Falls. I mentioned the fact that the government was concerned about the water level in the lake getting too high, so they drilled through the mountain. It took three years to drill the three miles through the mountain. When they got to the lake, the lake was actually some 13-14 feet higher than where they were drilling, so they had to be careful about letting the water out. But when they did, that caused the water level of the lake to drop, and revealed deltas that had been formed since the eruption, since the creation of the lake at that level, and up until the lake level was dropped. So the Harmony Falls delta was produced in a matter of three years. Then on the other side of the mountain, where they drilled through the mountain and the water comes out on the other side, another delta has formed at that end of it. At this point, my photograph here of the delta, which is very much larger than this one, this one's about 100 feet long or so with delta sediments here. This one is quite a bit larger, and it's after 11 years of development. So when I was in school, which at the time I was in school at the time of the eruption, I was taught that deltas take a very long time to form, thousands of years to form substantially. But here we have deltas formed in just a few years. Mud flows and pyroclastic flows, volcanic eruption type flows in the mountain, produced laminar bedding, which was a surprise to us. I love this particular photograph I took because when I looked at it the first time, I got back and looked at my slides, I thought, &quot;Wow!&quot; In fact, I saw it. That's why I took the picture. But it looked just like a slide I had been shown on a final exam in one of my geology classes. The professor projected the slide up on the screen, looked very much like this, and asked us to interpret the sediments. What I did is I interpreted it the way I'd been taught to interpret it. We have these finding upward rhythmic bedding, finding upward sediments, that would be indicative of a storm that moves sediments around, and then as the storm ebbed, it would drop finer and finer sediments. Then another storm would do the same thing, another storm the same thing. You've kind of figured these storms are maybe every few decades or so. So I interpreted the stuff on the screen as representing probably several hundred years of storm deposits. I got the answer correct, according to the professor. I got an A on that exam. This photograph is taken in the avalanche material of Mount St. Helens. This was formed in the matter of seconds, as the avalanche material is sliding down the mountain and coming to rest. So rather than centuries, this was formed in seconds. This is good reason to rethink some of the interpretations of the stratigraphic record. Plastic dikes are hard to see in this photograph, but you've got laminar sediments here formed by pyroclastic flows. Underneath you have avalanche material from the eruption, and you have these vertical dikes. They're slices. In three dimensions they would be plates that go down into the sediment, where sediments from up above are squeezed down into the avalanche deposit sediments. We know when this occurred. We know when these deposits are formed. So we know that these clastic dikes form very rapidly. Once the conditions are right, they probably actually form in just a few minutes. That allows us to go into the fossil record and interpret clastic dikes in the fossil record. Here in the Grand Canyon you have the Coconino Sandstone, kind of equivalent to these sediments up above here. Underneath is the Hermit Shale. And you've got these sheets of clastic dikes of sandstone cutting down into the mud underneath it. These would form rapidly. Also, they can't form if this in fact has been lithified into rock. It's still got to be soft, as this was soft when these dikes were cut into it. So we know there must not have been very much time between the deposition of the hermit and the deposition of the Coconino, and that these are formed very rapidly under catastrophic conditions. Interestingly enough, in this case, if you trace these formations to the south, you find there's 700 feet of sediment in between these two. And so that would suggest the 700 feet of sediment is formed very, very rapidly, not slowly, in order for this material still to be soft and available for making clastic dikes into it. Another thing that was interesting at Mount St. Helens is in the process of... How do I say this? As the avalanche material came down the side of the mountain, it didn't just carry rock, it carried big pieces of the glacier that was on top of it, and carried it down with the sediments, burying these huge glacial pieces in the avalanche material, which was hot. And so following the eruption, every place you had one of these buried pieces of ice, the ice is being melted and vaporized by the hot sediments around it. And you get these steam explosion pits that would erupt, if you wish, as long as there was still ice down there. Leaving behind, the pit itself would then collapse, taking the place of the glacial ice, pushing the water out, and leave behind this interesting, what they call valley and rill topography, that's characteristic of the Badlands, for example. And it was, again, I was taught, standard procedure, to say that this kind of complicated topography forms by water at the surface eroding canyons over very long periods of time, especially in places where rainfall is not common. But here, these things were formed in a matter of days. So what we traditionally thought could only be formed in decades or centuries, formed in days at Mount St. Helens. We also saw canyons being formed quickly. We saw canyons, this is Engineers Canyon here, it's about 100 feet deep. It's formed, we know, by a mudflow about two years after the eruption that cut this whole unit in the matter of hours. We didn't actually see it because it's occurring during a storm, but we know when it wasn't there, and we know when it was there, and we can infer when the canyon was formed, and almost certainly it's formed just in the matter of hours. Now that's in soft sediment, not too much of a surprise perhaps. But what was surprising is we found a number of canyons that were carved out through solid basalt in the matter of days. These would be not one, but several mudflows that would cut through the rocks and up through as much as 700 feet of solid basalt, which is a really hard rock, in a matter of just a few days. And this is, let me back up, there's another one I should put in here. This is a really bad photograph, partly because of the conditions. Steve Austin and I were leading a tour on the front face of the mountain in a pouring rainstorm. Not always are the conditions best when we're trying to look at things. But this was a stream that's only about a foot and a half wide or so. The stream dropped off of a basalt lava flow, and cascaded down, and then made its way down from there. We dropped into the little canyon, wanting to cross that stream to go on for other things. But, as we watched it, the stream was pulsing, so it would be a foot and a half wide. Then, in about that much time, it would swell to about 3 feet wide, and then it would come back again, and it was solid mud. And when you dropped into this canyon, there was a sound that was deafening. And what it was, was there were inside the mud, which you couldn't see in the stream, were these bowling ball sized boulders that were grinding and banging against one another, and creating a horrendous sound in this little canyon. So that you could only hear the next person if you yelled, like 4 inches away from their ear. It was so loud. Not only that, but these boulders that filled the stream itself, supported an occasional 2 to 3 foot diameter boulder, that floated on top of this thing as it went down. And Steve and I looked at that crazy thing, and we're thinking, &quot;If we didn't have these people with us, we'd just jump right on across, and we'd go where we wanted to go.&quot; But we were a little bit concerned that not everybody could cross. If you did something wrong here, and slipped into this little tiny... you'd be ground into dust in no time at all. So, too dangerous to continue. We ultimately decided... we ate our lunch there, and finally decided to turn around and go back. But while we were there, which was about 45 minutes in the pouring down rain, I watched... I kept a careful watch on where the water cascaded down here, and watched in 45 minutes... those boulders and mud erode 6 inches of basalt out of existence. Right before my eyes. That was cool! I'm sure it was really cold, actually. About 38 degrees or something like that. It was quite miserable conditions, but I'm really glad I experienced it, because I've never seen erosion like that, that fast through solid rock. So we learned how rock can be eroded. Sediments can be eroded fast. Maybe not too much of a surprise, but even rock. And producing structures that are very similar to the erosion structures that we see making up the Grand Canyon. For example, I was taught in geology that the slower the water moves, the more it winds. So if you backpedal on that, you say, &quot;Well that means the faster it erodes, the straighter it is.&quot; Except that what we've learned... there's a picture from Mount St. Helens itself... that very fast eroded canyons and gullies actually take a zigzag path. They don't have a curved path, they have a zigzag path. And that is very much the shape of the Grand Canyon path. Also, what happens is the main canyon... and I showed a picture a bit ago in the middle of this canyon. This was a 100 foot deep canyon that was cut by a mudflow in just a few hours. Side canyons to the main canyon come into the canyon at 90 degrees to the canyon. And that's primarily because it's eroding out so quickly that slumping comes in from the side to create these side canyons. All these canyons are perpendicular to the main canyon, which is what we see in the Grand Canyon. Here's an example of a slump feature where the sediments that were up here slumped down. This whole piece slumped down. And then if we have water running through this canyon, it then takes that quickly away. And that's how you can have actually very quick erosion perpendicular to the main axis of the canyon. So we learned a mechanism of canyon formation that we were unfamiliar with. Another thing we learned at Mount St. Helens is following the eruption itself. The devastation that I pointed out... it's amazing how fast organisms came to repopulate that area. These are some pictures taken up to 14 years later. We've got trees coming back in the midst of the trees that were broken down. Flowers specially designed for recovery. We thought that... we estimated initially that 50,000 elk were killed in the 156 square miles. That would be about the elk population that should have been in there. But censuses taken later indicated we only lost about 15,000 elk. And that the night before the eruption, residents that were outside that zone were awakened in the middle of the night by huge numbers of elk that are moving through their property directly in the opposite direction from the mountain. So somebody, I think their god, warned these elk to move out of the area the night before the eruption. But we still lost roughly 15,000. But what immediately happened thereafter in watching the elk population is that the number of twin and triplets produced more than doubled from what it normally did. So within just a few years the elk population had been restored to its pre-eruption levels. And then the twin and triplet frequency went back down to normal. So there's some sort of built-in mechanism in organisms to allow them to recover from catastrophes that we got a little bit of insight into at Mt. St. Helens. My favorite example of rapid bile recovery in this area was this beautiful little swamp here that we encountered. It's got cattails in it. This was a visit 11 years after the eruption. It's a mature swamp. There were prints of deer and look like coyotes and all sorts of plants. Very high diversity. Wonderful place. But where is it located? It's located in the middle of that engineer's canyon. It was eroded out two years after the after the eruption. It was formed in 1982, the canyon. So this beautiful well-developed swamp, which is by the way 10 miles away from any of the organisms that are found in this, because there's devastation 10 miles in all directions. Somehow all of those things got here and developed a mature swamp in the matter of nine years. I went to the University of Chicago as an undergraduate. That's where I was when the eruption occurred. It's the University of Chicago that succession theory was really introduced into biology, arguing that it takes thousands of years for destroyed environments to recover. That's not what we found at Mount St. Helens. We have much more to learn along that same line. We haven't been thinking right about these things. Another interesting project Steve Austin engineered was to go out and test the, every four years following the eruption, go out and sample the logs out in the middle of the lake to determine what kinds of logs are floating and how long they float and so on and so forth. Here's a picture I took. I went with him on one of those trips. This is again one of those things you should not tell anybody. Don't tell my wife that I did this. Don't tell my mom that I did this. There were three people in this raft we carried down to the lake. There were holes in the raft. One guy here, he's got his shoes off. It's cold. It's about 40 degrees or something like that. He's got his shoes off and he's got a finger in... each hand has got a finger in a hole and a toe and each foot is in a hole. Another guy is pumping air into the thing as rapidly as possible. And a third person is trying to row a half mile across the lake to these big logs. And then if that isn't bad enough, of course what are we doing? We're doing this with Mount St. Helens in the background. There's a lava dome in there that just six months later comes out and destroys the area we're going in. So this is not good. Plus if that isn't bad enough, one of the guys in one of the boats has a very sharp hatchet. Not a good thing for a rubber boat. He is being brought out to the logs and he'll reach out and chop into the logs to identify the species of logs. And we carry him from one place to another. Plus the huge logs! You can't see it from a distance, but the logs are bigger diameter than our raft is. So if we ever maneuver in between two logs that come together, we're again squashed and ground out of existence. What was interesting about the... as crazy as it is, the results were really interesting. There's a wide variety of trees that existed in the lake that floated in the lake right after the eruption. But the variety dropped, so by the time the last... I think that his last one was 12 years after the eruption. There's only one species left. So that different species of trees have different float times. And he was able to estimate half-life float times for the various tree species. And there's only one left at the end, the Douglas Fir. We estimate the float time for that tree is... Half-life, the float time, is 75 years. There's still almost a half million logs floating on Spirit Lake 40 years after the event. And there will be for a very long time to come. In fact, we estimate 75 years after the event, only half of the Douglas Fir will have dropped down to the bottom. What that means is that if you are on the bottom, receiving the trees on the bottom, you're going to get one species of tree at one level. And then as time goes on, you're going to have a change in the species of trees. Which interestingly enough, corresponds to the order that trees come into this area's community through time. So the very first trees are the ones that actually also turn out to be the ones that fall out first in the lake. So that if you, after all this was done, you drained the lake and looked at the sediments, it would look like an ecological succession of trees. That in fact wasn't at all true. It was one group of trees living at one time, but they get separated in the water by differential flotation times. Really, really interesting research. Another consideration here that's important, besides what we immediately learned, is let's put it into perspective of the world. Where is Mount St. Helens among volcanoes? Mount St. Helens took one cubic kilometer of rock and made it into ash and tossed it up into the atmosphere. In the end, a total of one cubic kilometer, that's a lot, six tenths of a mile by six tenths of a mile by six tenths of a mile block of rock that you pulverize into ash, toss into the atmosphere 60,000 feet. Where does it compare to other eruptions? Pinatubo, a really big one, pulverized 11 cubic kilometers. Krakatoa, 1883, a monster, pulverized 21 cubic kilometers. Tambora, we estimate from 1815 at 160 cubic kilometers of rock, pulverized into ash. Vesuvius, Pompeii and Herculaneum, perhaps you're familiar with those. Those were destroyed in this eruption. 10 cubic kilometers of rock were pulverized. Santorini, possibly the end of the Mycenaean civilization, 100 cubic kilometers. Crater Lake in Oregon, we estimate 100 cubic kilometers there. Mount St. Helens is a little small, but it's within two orders of magnitude of the largest volcanoes we know of in the last 4,000 years. It's roughly like the volcanoes have been for the last 4,000 years. What about lava? All those lava domes that were produced, a total of about 20 cubic kilometers of lava was produced at Mount St. Helens. Here's another eruption at 13 to 15. A couple in Iceland, 1420 cubic kilometers. Crater Lake, we estimate 46 to 58 cubic kilometers. That means Mount St. Helens produced about the same amount of lava as the big lava explosion eruptions that we know of in the last 4,000 years. Mount St. Helens is kind of a typical, a little bit on the small side, but a somewhat typical volcano for the last 4,000 years. The locations of those eruptions are here. They're in places where we believe the reason they're occurring is because plates, ocean floor plates, are subducting at centimeters per year underneath the continents, melting material which comes up to the surface and creates an eruption. So we think that all of these, the last 4,000 years, are due to crustal plates that are moving at about centimeters per year. But let's go back before 4,000 years ago. Here's the ash produced, dumped out by Mount St. Helens, you saw on an earlier slide, and the amount, the volume of ash. If we go back to Crater Lake, which we saw was about two orders of magnitude more ash, it spread ash over a larger area, and it goes back some few thousand years. Before 4,000 years ago, we've got bigger eruptions. Bishop Tuff, we estimate 600 cubic kilometers of rock, pulverized into ash. 600 times as much ash. Before that, Lava Creek Tuff. 1,000 cubic kilometers of rock, pulverized into ash. Before that, an eruption at Yellowstone National Park estimated 2,500 cubic kilometers, 2,500 times as much ash as Mount St. Helens. Now these are each older than the other, so we have this pattern of increased, as we go back in time, bigger and bigger and bigger volcanoes. The last 4,000 years, roughly about the same. But as we go back before that, we've got bigger and bigger ones. And we go back older than this, and we have evidence in the rock record, the Shinley Formation, an estimated more than 10,000 cubic kilometers of ash. Tens of thousands of times more ash than Mount St. Helens. And so, let's look at lava. Mount St. Helens, with its 20 cubic kilometers of ash, compared to before 4,000 years before present, the Columbia River flood basalts about 175,000 cubic kilometers. So thousands of times more lava. Go back older than that, we have the Deccan deposits in northern India, estimated 18.5 million cubic kilometers. So millions of times more lava than Mount St. Helens. Another group is 100 million cubic kilometers. So it's 100 million times more. And if we look at the amount of lava that's produced at the bottom of the ocean, as plates spread, we've got about 2.5 billion cubic kilometers that would be older than these. Now if we look at where these things occur, these what are called flood basalts, because they flood out so much basalt, are in these kind of locations. And again, they're thousands to millions of times as much lava as Mount St. Helens. And by our best estimates, by the way, they're coming out at about the same amount of time. In a matter of just weeks, we've got humongous volumes coming out. Where is this lava coming from? How does it get to the surface? Well, associated with almost every one of them are cracks. Mount St. Helens, and we believe all the recent volcanoes, are coming up through the lavas, coming up through old pipes. Pipes that were there before the mountain, or that actually generated the mountain itself. They were again pipes in the rock. In Grand Canyon, we have evidence of huge thicknesses of basalt that must be coming out of much larger fissures. And we have, in both the Grand Canyon and Death Valley, very large thicknesses of lots of lava. And they're part of what we call giant radiating dike swarms. If you plot the dike swarms on a map, a global map, you find that, for example, the Central American a magmatic province here, there are dike swarms on North America. The next slide shows Georgia. We've got a bunch of dikes where the lava is cutting its way through the rocks and splitting the rocks apart. So here you have one example. It's just cutting, breaking the rocks apart, and jamming its way through, backing up hundreds of miles from the source. The same source is cutting the rocks in South America. The same source is cutting rocks in Africa. And with each one of these flood basalts, underneath each of these flood basalts are these dike swarms. And if you look directly underneath the flood basalts, you find that the lava is cutting the rocks apart vertically. And as it gets further away, a couple hundred kilometers away, a couple hundred miles away, it doesn't have enough power to break the rocks apart. So what it does is it turns and lifts the rocks. It slides in between rocks that are already there, lifting the rocks up from there. So they turn from dike swarms to sills that go up to a thousand miles from their sources. So what we see here is that Mount St. Helens is characteristic really of the present, but there's something that happened before 4,000 years ago, soon before 4,000 years ago, that dropped a thousand to ten thousand times as much ash, a thousand to a million times as much lava, fracturing crust over a thousand miles away, producing a hundred to ten thousand times as much coal as we see produced in the present, the same amount of time, burying a hundred to ten thousand times as much buried forest as we see at Mount St. Helens, producing deltas that are a thousand to a hundred thousand times bigger than the deltas at Mount St. Helens, producing lamination that is a thousand to ten thousand times more extensive, canyons that are ten to a hundred times deeper and bigger than the canyons at Mount St. Helens, and badlands that are a thousand to a hundred thousand times the size of those at Mount St. Helens. And what we think the cause is, if we think the cause of Mount St. Helens and other volcanoes that are in the last 4,000 years is due to crustal movement at centimeters per year, we suspect that the earlier things are due to crustal plates that are moving billions of times faster, thus producing those enormous explosions and eruptions and erosions and so on and so forth. That's same... and if we postulate that that's how fast plates moved at that time, plates moving at that speed would move continents around, crashing North America into Europe and then separating it again, creating the typical view people probably have of moving continents. During a single year, we could actually move all the continents as much as people are familiar with them moving. It would be enough power to explain how in the world that much movement, that much motion, would explain how we could crack the surface of the Earth, the rocks of the Earth for a thousand miles away from places where the lava is extruding. It can actually move rocks quick enough up to the surface to produce diamonds that we see in South Africa and other places that take the kind of conditions... You've got to create the right conditions at about 10 kilometers beneath the surface and then you've got to get them to the surface in about 5 hours. If you do it too fast or too slow, you don't get diamonds as a result. So the diamonds we find on the Earth tell us we've got material moving up to the surface in large quantities at tens of miles per hour, 60 miles an hour in some cases. And that would be explained by this very rapid motion of continents. And it explains the amount of lava that we find in lava and flood basalts. In the process it would create about 200 cubic kilometers of ocean floor lava every second during this. And the effect of it is it would raise the level of the ocean by heating up the bottom of the ocean, replacing cold ocean floor with hot ocean floor. That actually then occupies more volume than the original, pushing water out of the oceans, probably raising water to a mile above sea level previous to that, creating a global flood. So I believe the evidence we have at Mount St. Helens compared with this older evidence would suggest there really is good reason to believe there was a global flood that covered this planet Earth not too long before 4,000 years before present.