What is that? SpaceX conducted recovery first parts for a possible block 2 booster were Parts for a new launch mount were spotted, Rocketlab made huge progress with Neutron. My name is Felix. Welcome to What About It!? Let's dive right in! Starship Updates They actually managed to do it! SpaceX of Starship, or at least they kind of did. in talks with the Australian government a splashed-down Starship. Thanks to a truly we've learned that these talks were successful! Indian Ocean shortly before Starships' sixth been working for SpaceX for all previous Starship Its job has been to place the floating much information as possible about the landings. down, it had one more job: along it had the job of recovering ship 31! ship 31 tipped over, and the force of hitting the and tanks separated. This made a full recovery intact enough to stay afloat, meaning Over the next few days, the two vessels stripping it of as many parts as possible As the ships returned to Port, Interstellar trove of flight Hardware they had brought back. overwrapped pressure vessels, which are meant as well as a literal bag full of Unfortunately, these are the only things that other containers were covered, meaning this is far While this isn't a full ship recovery, these early flight tests as any hardware The heat tiles, in particular, will likely be detail to determine what needs improvement. they take the heat? be loaded onto a ship or plane and brought This recovery effort will arguably be even effort of booster 11, as shortly after those 12 was caught. So they had a flown booster. 12 now back on the ground, they'll also be able design is even closer than you may realize. Musk revealed that the first block two He also confirmed again that the new booster unknown. Given that the second tower being built turned out to only be around 6 feet or a bit less of the block 2 booster is a bit of a mystery. the block 2 booster will be equipped with Raptor and Raptor 3 will increase this by 50 tons to 280. Raptor 2 and 3, this new booster design will be sporting close to 10 thousand tons of thrust, Saturn 5 and 14 times more than the Falcon 9. same time. That's Super Heavy Block 2's output. the first parts for this new block 2 booster. and there are over 2 million returning Help us improve the channel even further subscribe button so you don't miss our updates! a WAI supporter. Why? Because you'll gain With it, you can access to daily new those we've posted so far - satellite, aerial, posts in the past two years alone, per week. Insights, chat with me, you name it. possible first block 2 Booster segment! Thanks to the wonderful Windows that SpaceX inside the Star Factory to get a glimpse of some photographers for NSF managed to spot this! a booster. However, the design Sports meaning this will likely be the first The change from the block 1 to the block 2 thrust. Starships are heavy. Block 1 already it just needs to be even bigger. thing spotted; on the 27th, this odd piece If it's flight Hardware, it's likely a this one piece of Hardware is roughly That's crazy! 3 engines will require more fuel, it's unlikely A better explanation is that this and reentry burn on top of landing. has had quite a few problems especially past. A reentry burn would shield the engines Falcon 9 basically uses its engine shield to protect itself from reentry heat which appeared to be a small tank dome however, this still needs to be clarified. mysterious Hardware is? Do you think it's a piece tank? Let us know in the comments below, and Work has been ramping up in preparation These first flight tests have essentially Starship is feasible and a test bed However, Starship is now transitioning incorporating the lessons learned from these This can be seen in the differences between of differences across the whole vehicle, from And even more is expected to change soon as We talk a lot about heat shields here at WAI. Protection makes everything else possible in the you do. At work, privately, and with others. That's why I partnered with Surfshark to give you no-hassle solution to keep your data private network for you, blocking prying eyes and and other criminals who try to access your And here comes the icing on top! Surfshark is antivirus, protecting you from hostile Don't know what those are? Don't worry. care of it for you! You don't need to know. public wifi? Thanks to proxy emails and it can even give you a fresh start! protects your entire household with one All covered, all safe, all the time. 4 extra months of Surfshark and an the description and in the pinned comment! We're aware of four different variants that should seen. The current one is designed to deploy the depot ship, and, of course, the lunar lander. start seeing parts for those? block two starships, the most recent one being It's possible that one of the nose cones currently different variant, as the sooner they build it, The timelines for the first flights of these However, SpaceX's goal is to be able to build we should begin to see even more If that's the case, SpaceX may opt to push the just a little longer and possibly even past Moving past the ship, the most obvious example as the difference between pad This second pad's design has been completely from the first one to design and build 35 Raptor engines multiple times a day. you need some pretty heavy-duty equipment, and the over the past week has finally raised to assist The interesting thing about this is that it's all being done here in my neighborhood at the Cape. the new launch pad at Cape Canaveral Like the crane at StarBase, the crane here is thanks to some images shared by Greg Scott during something extraordinary! These are parts for a new launch mount! we've seen at Starbase, which confirms that the We've speculated about this in the had shown some wrapped pieces around SpaceX's identical to the pieces for the water-cooled But now it's confirmed, and it's likely there so we should begin seeing Of course, this doesn't mean this will be technically, there's already a complete decided to scrap after they realized Although SpaceX is working on this launch work will likely be slower here at the Cape this Spaceport just recently broke a record, but SpaceX's other Launchpad here at the Cape, SLC-40. place here, broke the record for the fastest That being a mind-boggling 13 This beats the previous record of 21 how advanced the Falcon 9 is now. a large portion of these 13 and 1/2 days was such as from the drone ship back to land This is mindblowing, and SpaceX could as their original goal was to have a However, there's no real need for this. At this stage, which is not reusable, and therefore, A new upper stage leaves Hawthorne every the boundary of space flight and paving the way while they may be leading the revolution, Rocket Lab is one of the newer companies it joined pretty early and has made incredible Rocket Lab is already working on two reusable small satellite launch vehicle, which is small that's not the only rocket they've been working This brings us to Neutron, Rocket launch vehicle with a reusable first stage. to those of a Falcon 9. However, it including a completely enclosed second stage and a to re-enter and be reused with the first stage. impressive since its announcement back in 2021, delays, but progress is now ramping up. Rocket Lab has shown off its new launch The mount is coming along nicely, the deck beginning installation as well. render, with a simple suspended This launchpad will likely be ready fairly companies in construction in the space the pad to be as simple as possible. pad if you don't have a rocket to Lab has also been working on neutron itself. Rocket Lab also shared a video of their This was a wet dress rehearsal to ensure cryogenic temperatures. During the test, Rocket flight conditions. Getting there, ha? and looking at the video they showed from This test stand may look a little but that's for a very good reason. to hang from the interstage of the rocket. What? is made of carbon fiber, placing it under compared to if it were under compression, This means the second stage can be this also means things like this need to be That's why it looks so strange. other launch vehicle, the Electron. Despite its to dominate a portion of the launch market. Rocket Lab has even begun pursuing reusability, guaranteed for Rocket Lab as Electron faced At one point, it seemed like a new developing a new small satellite launch vehicle. emerged as the industry leader, as more and more In fact, yet another promising small sat launch the industry. Unfortunately, ABL Space commercial space toward missile defense systems. in 2023, and after its failure, a second time flight will be the only flight of this rocket. something was going on behind the scenes at a large portion of its workforce. ABL revealed that they had lost the first stage This can be devastating for a young startup. companies. For example, Virgin Orbit and the small satellite launch market or were Surprisingly, though, one company that has managed they declared bankruptcy and canceled Rocket All seemed over for Astra. much-needed influx of cash from the military, Firefly's Alpha rocket currently covers. new rules, as they help drive down Looking up from the small set launch that's also beginning to benefit from this. this is slowly becoming a thing! many companies have popped up looking to build While this may seem harsh, it is as those who are most efficient survive, That's why we've been watching Vast have been moving rapidly to bring their Haven Vast has now shown off its capabilities its first space station. Dude. are qualification articles. These and if they are shown to be successful, proper One key advantage Vast has over some is that all of this is being built in-house Although this may increase the initial upfront long-term cost, complexity, and production time. which outsourced the construction of its Thales Alenia. While they do benefit from the this does come with the cost of reduced They need to make a profit from this as well. could turn out to be the right choice for and with so many set to come online over the That's it for today! Remember to smash that fuels the Algorithm! And this is how you can in your favorite space nerd store! A new Raptor with a banana for scale are both up! The perfect the card you should see now! Also, check out our picture for your favorite wall! A significant photographers! And if you want to train your space your journey! Thank you very much for watching,