So I want to ask you about a report that broke this afternoon in National Public Radio. David Folkenflik, reported that a former colleague at Fox told him that Hegseth got, quote, handsy repeatedly while inebriated. once, even groped her bottom at a Manhattan, bar. obviously, it's an anonymous allegation. We should note that folkenflik has been covering sexual assault and sexual harassment at Fox for years. His track record on this is pretty good, but. But what is your response? And this is the pattern is that we have all these anonymous complaints where people are saying things they aren't giving any, you know, specifics. They don't have any corroboration whatsoever. And yet the people who were also there at the time are willing to come on the record by name, on camera and say, this didn't happen. It's the same thing. It's kVA, it's the same thing at Fox. It's the same thing, you know, at the, veterans for freedom, every single one of these, you have a few anonymous people saying it, and yet the people who come on the record and say, this is my name, this never happened. So, you represented, Pete, you've represented him for 8 or 9 years, I believe, starting with the Concerned Veterans for America stuff. Right. That including the incident in 2017, in Monterey. Now, we should note, the Pete's acknowledges that there was a sexual encounter. He says it was consensual. The woman, had a different story. he did pay her an undisclosed sum. and to some people out there that might look like, well, that's guilt. That's an admission of guilt. You're his attorney. Explain why you disagree. Sure. It could look like guilt. It could also look like an extortion. And that's the way that I saw it at the time, because this was something that was investigated by the police. Police found no basis whatsoever. In fact, one police officers told my investigator that before they interviewed Pete, based on the other witnesses testimony and the video cameras, they were actually considering charging her with making a false story or, you know, with being the aggressor in this and taking advantage of him when he had too much to drink. And he went in and he talked to them. And, of course, you know, that kind of ended the idea of charging her. But you'd fast forward a few years and all of a sudden she comes in with a lawyer saying, we're going to file this, we're going to make it public unless you pay. So and and the reality is, unfortunately, especially for public figures, you know, during, you know, the MeToo movement, a public allegation that somebody had drugged and raped somebody, they're going to get fired immediately. Fox news isn't going to wait two years to find out what happens in court, any more than CNN or any other network would. He would have been fired right there. So why do you think this is happening? What? Why do you think there are so many people coming out of the woodwork saying these things that have to do with either sexual or alcoholic, impropriety? This is, unfortunately, one of the things that has happened in this country when people are going for a confirmed position. Well, nobody's saying this about Marco Rubio. Well, he's maybe he's going to be next. You know, they started with, you know, they started with the attorney general, Matt Gaetz. Now they're focusing on Pete Hegseth. A lot of people and particularly people like Pete that have that have lived, you know, that have been out there. I mean, yes, Pete is not an angel. Yes. He's been out there partying a bit. He hasn't done these things, but particularly when it's somebody like him who, you know, threatens, you know, the institution where people are afraid he might change things too much. He might, you know, stop the gravy train. He might get rid of some of the things that, you know, the people you know, they're like they're threatened by him. And so people will come out just as they did for Justice Kavanaugh. And, you know, you start with, you know, a few stories, and then that begins the avalanche. And so now you have all these fake stories out there, and every single one of them has a good factual defense to them. But, you know, they're hoping that by sheer volume that they could try and convince him to, to get out. Is he cooperating with an FBI background check now that the Trump transition has come into this agreement with the Justice Department, not only is he cooperating, he can't wait to do the FBI background check. He's he's really looking forward to it because he knows, as I know, that FBI investigators are professional. They're going to go through this. They're going to not just take a few anonymous complaints and put that in the report. They're going to try and corroborated. The FBI background check is going to exonerate him of the vast majority of these claims. And so he's very much looking forward to that. All right, Tim, always good to see you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks for your time. My panel's here to discuss Marc Caputo. Let me start with you. What's your reaction to what you just heard? from Tim Parlato? Literally have been attorneys arguing, that his client, still has Trump's attention. still has the commitment to have him committed, or what's work, to have him confirmed rather, as secretary of defense. Well, I guess D.C. is sometimes a lunatic asylum, so it can be, you know, the same word that can be used in both contexts. But the reality is, is that it really only matters what the 53 Republican senators and I think at this point, Trump is going to stand by his nominee as long as this nominee can stand up and get the votes. That was the lesson of Matt Gaetz. That's going to be the lesson of Pete Hegseth, and that's going to be the lesson of the others. Now, at a certain point, Donald Trump is going to decide to really start to fight and really start to bend arms, twist arms and perhaps break them. The question we have here is not only can Hegseth get the votes, but if he falls short, to what degree is Donald Trump going to spend political capital? And we don't think, at least right now, that he's willing to spend a lot. That's why he's on the phone talking to Ron DeSantis about whether he wants the job. It is pretty surprising. It kind of shocked me yesterday morning when I heard it, but that doesn't mean DeSantis is going to get the job. What it means is that Donald Trump has doubts about whether Hegseth can actually get the votes. Gretchen Carlson, Hegseth mom, appeared on Fox News defending him this morning. This comes after The New York Times a few days ago revealed that she wrote him a really harsh email in 2018, in which she accused him of mistreating, women, in his personal life. This is, I think, during his second divorce. we should note that she also, in that New York Times story, also said that she, a few hours later apologized to Pete for writing that email. Take a listen to Penelope earlier today. I wrote that out of love, and about two hours later I retracted it with an apology email. But nobody's saying that he's a changed man, and I just hope people will. We'll get to know who Pete is today, especially our dear female senators, that you would listen to him. Listen with your heart to the truth of Pete. So, Gretchen, you are a survivor of sexual harassment in the workplace from when you worked at Fox. what do you think when you hear her defense of her son? What do you think when you hear, the allegations, against Pete Hegseth? Yeah. Let me first respond to Tim Haig's US lawyer, because one of the really important things that nobody's talking about is that the woman in that encounter has an NDA. So people can go out and say what they want on her side, but she can't say anything. And I think that's a really important part of this story. So if they really want to get to the truth, they should let her out of her NDA. That's point number one. Now on to the mom interview. look, it was a softball interview that was strictly appealing to the female GOP senators, as she said. And it was a mom encounter, too, because it was mom to mom. And if mom says that her child is okay, then maybe other moms will feel the same way. I don't know, I'm seeing that there's a lot of hesitation from these female GOP senators. It'll be really enlightening to see what Joni Ernst actually says. I actually think she would make a better defense secretary than Pete. but you also have Shelley Moore Capitol, and you have Susan Collins, Lisa murkowski. You have now, Cynthia Loomis changing her mind on this. And yesterday you had Senator Lindsey Graham, who had concerns about this as well. So in my mind, this is not about blowing up the Pentagon. There are plenty of other people that can do that. And we've named a couple on this show today, Ron DeSantis, Joni Ernst. Yeah. Jasmine Trump is reportedly considering Ron DeSantis as Gretchen just alluded to, as a backup. The two of us were bitter rivals during the Republican presidential, primaries. Do you think that this is legit, or is this like when he invited Mitt Romney to dinner at that time to kind of, I guess, the belief was that he was they were trying to humiliate Romney as he was auditioning to be secretary of state over that steak. Right? Yeah. Well, I think what is true is that we know that Ron DeSantis, his team, has expressed interest to Trump's transition team about being available for that position, as has other people. but when I've talked to people within the transition team, they want to see senators keep an open mind about us, and they want to see Pete as Pete has at least get to the confirmation process somewhere. That, of course, we know Matt Gates didn't get to. But of course, I think all these drip, drip drips of information, certainly the NPR report, today makes it that much more difficult, even though when I've talked to people since, the nominee sat down with Mike and Kelly, they thought he did a good job. They thought his mom did a good job today on Fox. Really trying to use that charm offensive, that he's known so well for. But certainly I think that the drip of information and as more accusations come, it makes it more difficult for him and and I know just kind of responding back to his lawyer, of course they can deny it. They've been really profusely, profusely saying that these things hadn't happened or that there were hurdles of truth. But what they can't deny is when that background check happens and what it says, not necessarily just about the alleged behavior that he's had with women that I've heard, of course, are concerning to women senators, particularly on the GOP side. But of course, the potential, that he may have a drinking problem. I think that that is what is going to be, kind of a nail in the coffin if it shows in the background check to be accurate from the people that I've spoken to, both in Congress and in the transition. Jasmine. Gretchen. Mark, great to see all of you. Thank you so much.