Is your leg hurting? It's been a long walk. Let me find a place for you to rest. Or let me carry you. It's okay. It's just a little pain. Are you okay ? I'm just worried about you. Go down there. It's about the same. It's just a while before we get home or can you just sit here and rest? Okay , sit here and take off your boots so I can see your leg. It's probably just a minor injury. I kicked it and pressed it on my leg. It's probably just a minor sprain . When he stepped on the rock, it slipped and the rock hit him I'm afraid that tomorrow it will be more purple. It's just a mild injury. For now, just go back to the farm so I can wash your feet . It's a mild injury, not too serious. Are you in a lot of pain? It's okay. I'll wipe your sweat for you . It's okay, you don't need to worry like that. It's just a mild case , but it 's okay. You see this place is swollen. Go back to the farm and get some water to soak your feet. I'm okay. I'm just worried about you. Let's go home. Are you feeling less tired? Wait for me slowly. Or let me I can carry you and you can carry me. I've been able to walk . I've arranged a few sessions. Today, I saw her go to the beauty salon together. Lately, I've been busy. She called a few times but couldn't go. I'm also busy. Just say we'll go get a beauty treatment together. This morning, she called to know that Giang had a day off, so she invited Giang to come along just for fun. Would you like to wash your hair and get your nails done? Okay, let's get your nails done today. I don't want to get my nails done. Giang won't do it . I won't do it. I'll wash it. It 's just the beginning . Lately I've found myself It's so ugly that I put on a strange face. If my grandmother and I become in-laws in the future, Giang will always take us to beauty salons . Mom, Uncle Loi is here and you keep teasing me. Makes her shy . Are you two in-laws? I 'm completely lost. I don't know if your skin is as beautiful as this at your age. You must be more beautiful. Mrs. Thu still looks more energetic than Mrs. Loi. Mrs. Loi has really bad skin these days, Mrs. Thu. This year I Likewise, my skin has become worse. My sister and I have to go to the beautician more often than not Hey, she looks so old. Her face is all wrinkled. How do you see my daughter? Our granddaughter Giang is good and kind. If we were to grade her, Giang would have to get a score of 10. You keep saying that, but Jack probably doesn't like her either. I'm not here, uncle. He probably only sees me as a little sister. Since the old days, the two of us played together . Jack has always loved me like a little sister. Giang goes out a lot, he likes it. Mrs. Thu, just get ready. But I want to become in-laws with you. I want that too, but But my children don't want that, so what should I do? I also know that's the case , but I only like Jack. Now he's stable. Giang also stays to work to help him, now Now I don't know.. Will I be able to bring you two together in the future? After we're done, do you and Mom want to go shopping or eat? Let me take you Mrs. Thu. It's up to you if you want to go anywhere. Giang took me away. Well, I don't want to go anywhere, grandma Okay, come down here today. I'll invite you to eat. After eating, you have to go shopping. It's been a long time since you two saw each other. I know there's a really good restaurant. I'll take you and mom there later. That's it. Yes . Yes , I don't want to eat today. I don't know what to buy. If it's ready-made, I don't know what to buy. This restaurant's food is very simple and easy to eat. Is that so? Is it nearby ? Yes, it's also nearby. Then let's go for a while. Then go home. Yes, please sit in the chair for me Open the door. Put your foot in here . Please open the door. Please drink some water. This water I bought for you the other day . So you should drink too. Please drink. Please drink while I go boil the water. Just sit down and rest. It's okay . Come here and rest. Let me put the stove on fire. I'm sure your legs will be fine. Just come here and rest. Yes, I'll put the kettle on. Sit here. Please wipe your face. Thank you, please sit down and rest. Don't you have any clothes to change into? My clothes are all dirty. Okay, let's drink some water. Go ahead and drink. Drink, I've already drank. Hey, should I go get some? Fresh tea leaves have come to wash your feet. There's no need. I'm tired. Just sit down and rest. I think it's difficult to stay right here. Let me run and get some. Sit here and wait a bit. Just rest for a moment. Then go, I'm fine. I'm just worried about your legs swelling. I'm fine I have work and I have to take care of many other things . You should call your aunt. Okay, I'll call my mom later . So you sit down and take a rest to look at the kettle for me. I'll run and get fresh tea leaves. Be careful. Please sit still here, don't move around. Please go carefully. I'll just go right here. Remember, you have to sit still. Go calmly and be careful. Yes. Actually , I don't feel much pain. But Tu Tien. I'm really worried about myself. It's the tea tree. I'll wait for you. Boil those leaves It's okay to drink. Maybe I'll just wash half and boil it again tomorrow . Where did I get the leaves ? Right up here, please call him back. I've already called. Yes . The kettle must have boiled. What can I give you? Instead, I'll add a little salt. I'll pour water in here to cool it, then I'll wash your feet. Are you tired, Tu Tien? I'm not tired. You're bothering me again. It's okay. I'm just worried about your brother. You're not either. It's okay, stop worrying about me. I saw it turning purple and I was scared Maybe tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you'll be better . Are you hungry or can I cook something for you? I'm not hungry. Let me go get some boiled eggs for you to eat for now . No need. It 's okay. The chicken eggs are here. Are you hungry at home? You're not hungry. It's not too late . Or should I cook porridge for you to eat ? No need. Then I'll boil some eggs. Please sit here. Look at her in a hurry and worried about how she looks. so cute Did you get the eggs from the chicken coop? Yes, from the coop . Day It always gave birth. The day I made you the crutch, where did you put it? I still put it there. I'll get it for you later . It's almost cold. Luckily, I still have boots and pants . I'm sure I'll scratch my feet. Is the water very hot? Okay, you soak your feet for a while, it will probably feel better. Last time I soaked your feet, you also felt very comfortable. Okay, let's sit up. Let's see how your feet are. Your ankles are swollen. Or is it? He called the driver to pick him up and go to England station It's okay. Let's soak your feet for a while and see how it goes. I'm so worried about your feet. It's okay, honey. I'm here. I'll take care of you for a few days and you'll be fine. Will Tu Tien let you stay here? No kidding. My feet are okay. This is painful. Thank you, I'm fine. It's just because I went to the forest with you.. Sit over here . I called my aunt and told her to tell my mother. There's no need to come in. It's just a mild case. Or you can just let me call my aunt to talk to her. That's okay Tien and I brought the medicine in for you to take and you'll be better. I don't think it's too bad. If it hurts, you have to tell me. The medicine I bought for you is still there . So you can take that medicine and drink it. I'll just eat a few for now. Go in, take the medicine, then go to bed to rest. Or you can just call your aunt so I can talk to her . Okay, let me call my mother. Aunt Tu Tien. Yes, I'm here. Uncle. Jack is in. Is that your farm ? Yes, I'll come in today and go with you I went to the forest and sprained my foot and fell down, so my foot hurts. I'm soaking your foot, is it okay? I don't know, but I see your foot is swollen. Maybe I'll let you finish soaking your foot for now. I'll call the driver later. Go in. Take me to see you doctor So let me call the driver. Come in and pick me up. Is Jack in a lot of pain? I saw your leg was swollen so I'm a bit worried. Ok , let me call the driver. Yes, hello. Um , so I haven't called you yet. I don't want to call my mom because I'm afraid she'll worry, but if I leave my leg like this, it's okay. I have to go and let the doctor check it out . I said it's okay and you don't have to worry about me like that. Thank you for worrying about me, but my leg is like that This is light. So please sit down. I'll go out here for a bit and then come back. Okay, Tu Tien called like that. My mother is worried . Are you done yet? Can you do it quickly? I'm busy. Uncle, what's going on? Jack, I don't know why he fell and hurt his leg. What 's wrong? His nephew fell. Tu Tien called but didn't know if the boy fell. So, call the driver. I thought you were at the company. Why did you go? But I can fall. Yes, I haven't asked clearly Tu Tien. I have to call Driver, Tien, Jack, call mom again . Mom, I'm calling you. Tien, come pick me up, then come over to my place. I told you to call mom. Today, I sprained my leg and fell in the forest. I got a minor injury, mom. Is it very painful? Yes, it 's not painful, Mom, I just want to spend more time with Tu Tien, Mom. Yes , but why should I call you? I'm so worried. Yes, it's okay. Tu Tien is here to take care of me, so Mom. Don't worry, look at her worrying about you and taking care of you, baby I also feel less pain, Mom. Yes, but I'm so worried. Is there anything wrong there? I have to call mom. Yes. Mom, don't worry. I also went to the forest with my grandfather when I was little, so I also got injured like this. I know Yes, you were there telling Tu Tien how to apply the medicine, but I feel so sorry. Or you should come in and see me. Okay, mom, the day Tu Tien hurt her leg, I bought medicine for her. She'll cook porridge for me in a little while. Then drink it and you'll be fine, Mom. Yes, I'll go ahead If there's anything in there, call mom. Yes, mom. Mom said Tien isn't the place to go. I'll come back here when I'm better. Okay , yes. Call mom and tell her it's not a place to go, or else she'll worry. I'm worried about you. I called my mom and said that, but she was worried. Luckily, it must be mild. Are you okay? I'm at Ms. Tien's place. Yes , I 'm on the farm. I'm so worried. I'm so worried . Is it over ? Yes , Giang. Please go with Uncle Loi to see how he is doing Yes, later, you and Uncle Loi will go in there to see if Jack is okay. I 'll probably let Giang take you there. I guess I'll have to go back and see how he's doing. He keeps saying he's okay, but I I 'm so worried, grandma. Go and see how he 's doing. I'm also very worried. Seeing you say that, I don't know if something's wrong or should I go in there with you? So I'll take you in there too. Yes, see. How is it? Jack kept saying that he was not affected by the Giang star, so he had to prepare on the way up Go take me inside. So mom, stay here. Come with me. I'll come back later. Grandma will be here later. Be careful, you two. I don't know who that Tu Tien girl is that just called Mrs. Loi, Jack. I'm in Tu Tien's place. Maybe I should ask Mr. Duc to investigate who this Tu Tien is. I'm so worried about your leg. It's just a skin injury. You don't have to worry like that. So you just stay here and I'll take care of it. For me, I'll be here. When you take care of me, I'll go home The eggs are cooked, I'll go get them for you to eat. Maybe they've been soaked enough before I put them out. So what about work now? I 'll arrange the work. Let me call Ms. Huyen. Bring the computer here. Yes, hello. Boss, Ms. Huyen. Go into your room and get the computer with some documents in the briefcase. Take it to Tu Tien's shack for me. Yes, I understand. I'll take it here. Yes, thank you. Yes . Hello boss. Yes . Hello. Miss You eat, I'll eat with you . Just eat, Em You can eat later too Once you've peeled it, I 'll go with you. I'll invite you to eat. I'll eat it. You can eat it. After a while, I'll cook a pot of porridge. I'll just eat one fruit with you. If not, I'll peel it for you to eat. Eat it today. Are you tired? I'm just worried about you. Please help me eat the yolks. Please eat. I don't like eating yolks. Please help me eat them. If I don't come with you, I'll fall. I also feel guilty. From next time. Don't let me go with you like that anymore Unfortunately, I don't know how to do it. Eat it and then go to the motel . Eat it. You don't want to eat anything . Eat the whites for me. Someday I'll take you to a restaurant like before . Do you like it? But I still invite you. But I invite my aunt too. Can I peel one of these fruits for you to eat? Well, I won't eat anymore. I'll cook porridge for you to eat. Yes. So sit down, I'll sweep it up. After a while, I'll go take a shower. Yes, I'll do it if I need to Can you help me ? No, my feet are hurting. Can I get some cement to pour the kitchen floor for Tu Tien? I think it's cool on the ground. But when pouring cement, it's cleaner. Yes, in the old house in the mountains, I'm still at home. I'll sweep the floor clean. I'll cook the pot of porridge. Let me help you sit up here temporarily . It's so comfortable . Let's see how long he can sit in this chair. Why don't I see him all the time? I left the password but didn't leave it today. Or maybe I'm suspicious What 's going on ? I admit that this guy is really good. He hasn't been in the company for long and has already signed so many big contracts. I don't have a shirt to change into, right? I'll wash that shirt for you. No need, honey. Go to bed. Go lie down and rest. Come in here and rest for a bit. Just leave it there. Go lie down and rest. Then I'll put some oil on you. The oil I bought for you before is still there. So I'll buy some for you. As it gets more and more purple, it hurts. No, it doesn't hurt too much. Go ahead and put some oil on it for me. Yes, wait Are you hungry? I'm not very hungry. I'm cooking porridge and then we'll eat. After eating the porridge, I'll take the medicine that I bought for you last time, so it's still there . You should rest. Okay, let me help you lift your legs up on the bed. comfortable How about cushioning me with a pillow? You can sit like this. You can lie down and rest for a bit to relieve your tiredness. Okay, sit here for a bit. Yes, I'll go look at the pot of porridge to see how it looks. Yes, I'll help you, too. I'm much better now, you don't have to worry about me like that Is it very painful? Can you help me lie down? I'll sit here for a bit . I'll lean my back there to relieve fatigue. I'll go out. I'm so worried about your leg. I don't know what's wrong. If you know that, don't let him go into the forest. The porridge is cooked. You should eat it too. I can eat it later. It's still a bit hot. You cooked the porridge so well. There's perilla underneath. Have you arranged your work yet ? Yes, you've arranged it well. I'll do it again. Ms. Huyen will Please bring me the documents. Yes, let me cook the porridge Please bear with me. The porridge is delicious. I'm very clumsy and only know how to cook like this. Okay, thank you. I can eat it myself. Please bring me some water. Take it and eat with me. I'll sit down and eat later. It's okay . Bring it up here to sit and eat with me for fun. But later on, you're going to sit alone and eat. It's okay to sit here with me for a little while so I can go get some water . There's some water. Yes, please . Let me feed you. I have some. When you are given hot food, I will tell you, Son Hello mom, are you okay? Yes, I'm okay, it's just a slight injury, Mom , me and Giang just arrived. My legs are completely purple . Where did you go to make your legs hurt like this, Jack? Oh, I went to the forest today with Tu. Tien unfortunately fell and broke her leg Please sit here. I see it's swollen so I'm a bit worried. Yes, my leg is completely purple . I'm sure it'll be gone in a day or two, Mom. I'll have to put some medicine on it. I guess it's not necessary. I bought some medicine for you before. Tu Tien is still alive, so he's still taking medicine. How do you feel in the joint? It's just a little pain, not too much. May, it's only on the skin. How can I fall when I walk ? If it's unfortunate, I'll know what to do next time. Be careful next time, Tu Tien, next time you go harvest You have to be careful wherever you go . Yes, I'm okay. Tu Tien is taking good care of me here, mom. Are you eating porridge? Yes, Tu Tien cooked it for me. Try to eat it. Eat it to make it healthy. Yes. Tu Tien called mom and she was so worried. I kept saying mom didn't have to come in but she was very worried. Yes, it's just a mild case. It wasn't very serious, so I didn't call mom because I was afraid. Mom was worried. It hurts a lot to look like this, I'm scared. affects the bones and joints inside. Or you can go home and I'll give it to you I'm going to take a scan to see if there's anything wrong. Thank you, Giang. I just have a superficial injury. But you can see it's very painful. I'm fine. I'm here. Tu Tien will take care of you for a few days and you'll be fine. So where did I fall? Today, Tu Tien and I went to the forest to get banana flowers, so we fell in the forest, mom. So how do we get back? Tu Tien helps me home. Yes, Tu Tien helps me home . Luckily, Tu Tien helps me home. It 's been a while since I last went to the forest and I wanted to go experience it Unfortunately, it happened like that. It's unfortunate, but next time you have to be careful, especially Tu Tien, too, often goes to harvest. So you also have to be careful. Hello everyone, Ms. Huyen, what's wrong with Chan, boss? I don't have anyone who sprained their leg or fell . Let me go out here on the chair. It must be very painful. Yes, it's normal. Sit down. Yes, how long have you been here? I 've just arrived . Miss Huyen. Sit on the chair. I'll get everyone some water to drink. You need it. Can the computer come in for me? Yes. It's just a slight problem, right ? It's not too heavy. You feel a lot of pain. You haven't eaten the porridge yet. Let me feed you the porridge . You've already eaten. Try to eat a little more. I see there's still a lot of porridge. Take one more bite . Just leave it there. Eat one more. Just a piece Uncle and everyone, drink water. Mom and everyone, please drink water. Yes, eat the porridge, try to finish it. Yes, eat a little. You have to try, baby. I'm sitting here. Then please take the medicine. I think it's you. It probably won't be too heavy to walk from up there Oh last time, where did you go to get the herbal medicine for me? Or should I go get it and then apply it to your feet? Okay, no need. I bought it for you before. If there's still some left, I'll take the medicine later. Yes, Boss. Oh my boss, when I'm in pain like this, how can I move up to the company? Okay, this time I'll handle the work at home. If there's anything at home, please send me a gmail. Yes. So , Giang, how is the project at Nine Chum? Then I sent the profile to you I've sent you a message but I still haven't heard back. Pay attention and let me know if there's anything. Yes, I'm working at the company so maybe I'll be at home in the next day or two. If there's anything, please call me directly. okay Yes, I don't have to worry about you too much, I just have a skin injury. For now, I want to stay here for a day or two . Mom, please come back later. Yes, just take a look. If your leg hurts, tell me. Yes , Mom. If you and Giang have anything, please call mom. Yes Be careful and don't move around. So just leave me here and I'll take care of you . You have to eat, eat a lot and then take medicine. If anything happens, you have to tell mom. Yes, don't worry . Tu Tien doesn't have to call you. Okay , yes. I was also worried about you, so I called you. I was also worried. Jack said he didn't have to go in, but he felt so bad. Giang was there, so we went in. Yes , maybe I should go back to Giang first this afternoon. I still have work to do . But I think it's good for you to go home. At home, the roads are easy to get around, so you can go to the hospital quickly. But I'm here, I don't think it's full. I'm afraid that if something happens, I won't be able to get a checkup in time. I'm very scared. Your leg is very important. I know, thank you. Tu Tien here takes good care of you. I'll take a day or two off. If you recover , you can rest assured, my mother can also rest assured Don't worry, it's okay to stay here . Well, if you like it here, we'll just go home. If anything happens, someone else will call . Yes , then I'll stay here. Tien, please take care of me for me. I'll follow up if If your leg doesn't feel better, call the doctor. Don't worry. If anything happens, call Giang and mom to come home. Yes, I'll be home. I have some work to do this afternoon. I have to be careful. Boss, I'll also ask for permission to go home. Yes, ma'am. Come home, then come home I'll give you a call. Let's keep an eye on your leg. It turns out his leg hurts and he can't walk. I have to tell this news to my boss. Actually, I find it inconvenient for you to be here. I still want to I'm going back to my house. It's fully furnished and you can go out to take care of him. Yes, it's probably okay. Please put away the bowl of porridge. Yes, I need to help you. Then I'll say goodbye to eat. Do you want to rest? Let's rest for a bit. Let me work for a bit . Done Come here, come here and sit with me. Let's eat porridge. There's no table here for me to work on. I'm sitting here, but I haven't eaten porridge yet. I'm not very hungry . Let's go eat porridge. Just go ahead and work. I want to. Look at me for a bit Well, I don't need it. Looking at these things, I don't understand anything . How far have I learned the other day? The teacher also taught me how to type. I also know how to type a few words. The teacher also taught me about letters with accents. Then I'll just keep working. Are you tired? No, I'll just keep working Don't worry about me, I'll just sit here for a little while