On November 18th 2013, Sorceress Skip was A skip that was seen as the holy grail for requirement to enter the final boss. When it was first found, it sparked a gold were attempting to set a new world record The record before the skip was discovered was found. I guess you could say that the speedrunners As the record was below the 30 minute mark would set a 29:02, where the record would There was definitely room for improvement, the record in Spyro 3 any%. And his name is JeremyThompson. Jeremy would lower the record throughout 2015, Grantchil would take the record back in October the next month - He would never let go, and the category ever since. Occupying first place for over 6 years. But Jeremy doesn't just care about the record, set out to lower his time until he got a run When Jeremy set the first ever sub 25 minute was it. The pot of gold, at the end of the rainbow. But no, Jeremy wanted to take the record lower, He would achieve a 24:21 in July 2017, and would prove to be a tall order. In fact, it would take him 1 year and 8 months But after 20000 attempts the 23:58 was here. The run is still standing strong today, and is generally viewed as one of the greatest Today we're gonna take a look at how Jeremy 24 minutes. What? What? What the f... Now this is a perfect example of a malding And you don't wanna be this guy... Couple more rages like that and he could lose recommend Keeps. Keeps is a subscription based service that 2 out of 3 guys will experience some form So best thing to do is to get started while It takes roughly 4 to 6 months before you Keeps does not reverse baldness, just helps Keeps is FDA approved and a licensed doctor the best hair loss plan for you. Get Keeps today with 50% off your first order by going to Keeps.com/Ricky. That's K-e-e-p-s.com/Ricky Alright, let's get into the run. From the get go Jeremy starts out in Sunrise This is one of four homeworlds in the game, Within these homeworlds, you can travel through begins by going to Sunny Villa, where he will this run. "Proxy Jumping." When Spyro does a charge jump and you try Spyro will do a tiny stutter in the air. If you kill an enemy and do this stutter on be sent up into the air with high velocity. This allows Jeremy to go through the top of the level. Since this is the any% category, Jeremy does boss entry. Instead, the objective is to rescue a character done by finding and talking to them. Upon rescuing them, they will exit the portal rescued them all. Jeremy compiled a big spreadsheet with his in the game. As we go along, I'm gonna be pointing a It should give you an idea of how unlikely Immediately after Sunny Villa, we have one Jeremy's success rate being roughly 45% Jeremy first lines his camera up in a precise top most pixels of the waterfall, with this, glitches, the Swim in Air. Spyro's swimming speed is very fast, and he pleases, but his next destination is Seashell This level has a 14 egg requirement for entry, and 3 is located directly beneath where the So if you can reach it, you can enter the does in this run. In seashell shore, another proxy jump is used Proxies have a wide range of variable heights, to make this one work. If Jeremy got a higher launch he would have through the top of the wall, but the moment the spot and go for a backup strat if he doesn't He then enters a bonus challenge and quits a swimming state, where you won't be able Next up is molten crater, which requires 10 to hit the loading trigger below the map. The entry into the level was said to be the but Jeremy makes it look easy, and has it The same goes for the boar proxy at the start but Jeremy's is extremely consistent at He simply cruises to the end of the level, With two more levels to go in the first homeworld, In Cloud Spires, the developers put the end speedrunners, and of course, we're gonna in around 20 seconds. For the last level in sunrise spring, you Moneybags, who always want the gems that you've Luckily for us, we can rescue Sheila without In the tunnel across from cloud spires there's get an egg at the end of the tunnel. But Jeremy turns around immediately upon grabbing and grabs another swim in air from the water the wall. Where he then flies into the Sheila's Alp Skipping the moneybags payment completely This level is also fairly straight forward. You just have to take out some mushroom houses the level. Upon freeing all 5 characters, you'll get is why the levels are done in a specific order. Before moving on to Midday Gardens, we have as opposed to the later ones. Jeremy just has to stand near the border of In the later stages of the fight, Buzz will to wait out. Jeremy turns the camera sideways in order as quickly as possible. Rinse and repeat until he's defeated. Now it's time for Midday Gardens, home to run. It's very easy for speedrunners to be on run, but at some point, the difficulty starts The turning point for Spyro 3 is definitely Jeremy delivers one of the fastest hub 2s Jeremy first needs to head to Sgt. Byrd's Base, which has a 700 gem requirement We've barely collected any gems or eggs Another swim in air can be used, by going bottom of the bridge with the surface of the charge. In Sgt. Byrd's Base, you have to escort the hummingbird pathing is quite complex. There are a few mandatory checkpoints that to move forward, but you can also get optional you're going through, which can save upwards level. Jeremy takes care of this with ease and moves Next is Spooky Swamp, where Jeremy climbs again enters the level early without fullfing In the level, Jeremy does another proxy jump and get to the end quickly. With some additional egg hovering swag at 70% of runs make it past the crocodile proxy some runs to end here. Proxies start getting a lot harder when the but if the alligator is considered small, Jeremy now goes out of bounds to head to Bamboo proxy in the game, with Jeremy's estimate The strategy for a while was to defeat all that's known as a squeeze proxy. Which was done by wedging yourself between were pushing it, then gliding through a wall However, the end of the level is straight bridge to get across only comes down once This is where our tiny bug friend comes to to get onto a rooftop. Afterwards a trick called the Sproderman is much height. And yes, those are the words Spyro and Spiderman With 2 levels to go in Midday Gardens, Jeremy With his main goal being to flame 3 rockets The start of the level and the statue is separated will use a unique strategy that doesn't He first jumps onto a ledge and makes his with a charge jump glide into hover, where wall. He then drops down, and flames the rockets Finally comes Icy Peak, which has always been top runners, due to how isolated the portal Jeremy starts out by jumping onto the cannon You can in theory jump around it, but it's a half, so Jeremy deemed it to not be worth Now he performs a jump from from the beginning a clencher. Jeremy makes this jump look easy, and gets to the end is a huge killer for new players. All that's left is climbing the stairs and Now Jeremy has to face Spike, the second boss world, now comes a very difficult boss. It takes 6 hits to take down Spike, and Jeremy here, for a trick later in hub 3. This fight is one of the highlights of Jeremy's A 25 second fight, with all of his health Perfect. Jeremy was now 3 seconds ahead of his best is the fastest run in the world up until this Let's see how it continues to unfold. Evening Lake, a calm exterior, yet more brutal Only a small handful of Jeremy's runs make good runs to this part, none are as fast as in. The first level, Bentley's Outpost luckily, To get into the level, Jeremy gets spyro to to get out of bounds. The wall collision Jeremy flies through though Spyro 3 has two NTSC versions of the game For some reason the collision on the walls on 1.1. You can still get out of bounds to enter Bentley's or two. The Spike is Born cutscene is also missing save 5 seconds heading into spike. 1.1 does gain back a few seconds in a handful seconds over the course of the run. So that's the version Jeremy used to get The out of bounds into Bentley's Outpost to this mr monopoly lookin headass, so that's In Bentley's Outpost, Jeremy makes sure time, to initiate their cycle of throwing he can reflect them back without wasting any Afterwards, you're supposed to reflect a reachable from the ground. The rest of the level is just pushing some brother to the end. Simple stuff. Frozen Altars is more of what we've already of the level conveniently right at the start. A proxy off of a mammoth allows Jeremy to As a side note, Jeremy got the lower proxy If you get additional height, you can go through save a couple of extra seconds. Oh, and thank god we don't have to do any I could almost make a separate video talking Moving on though. Using the same out of bounds as before, we trick in the game. The firefly proxy. A trick so impactful, the second fastest option And yes that does mean running all the way Jeremy actually misses the firefly proxy in around, it's faster to die to get the firefly on his 2nd try. This is the only major mistake Jeremy made estimates a first try to be a 35% chance of Again keep in mind, 35% is merely Jeremy's movement of the firefly and also other creatures pathing. What threw Jeremy off here was the firefly's his flame by a hair. Despite the death, the run was still well he uses two piggybacking enemies to give him Hey i've seen this before, now that's boost. Technically this trick doesn't accomplish who we have to escort to the end. But by running through the ship and getting dying, Crazy Ed will respawn corresponding This is why Jeremy wanted to take damage during on the goop to die quicker, but the death health. After respawning from the death warp, Jeremy where he does a small shortcut by jumping After completing the level, Jeremy doesn't He heads back to the goop to trigger "the Essentially by pausing right before spyro out of the level, making the game think he's This is a frame perfect pause, and if you advance the game 1 frame forward, just a good a rough 70% chance of success. The zombie glitch has a couple of side effects. But the one we're looking for in this run, Yup. You can carry the swimming state through the makes his way into Charmed Ridge. Here, you have 3 enemies to attempt the proxy high. In this run, Jeremy doesn't need any of gets the best proxy height too. He glides to the end with ease and finishes Up until this point, every trick that's less been in Jeremy's control. Sure there's some different pathing the fight had a bit of luck involved. But all of that pales in comparison to what's Now it's time for Scorch. This arena might as well represent hell. RNG hell. Your main assistant in this fight is Bentley, for you. You can either get 1 big green rocket, or You would think the big green rocket does that's where you decided to use logic. There's literally no damage difference between ones. With all of the tricks Jeremy's had to do Scorch on pace, and to keep that pace going coin flip right at the end. If you get a green rocket, you need to wait the coinflip. It's slow, but you can continue the run if Luckily for Jeremy, he got the red rockets Jeremy's 8 best runs to Scorch prior to killing every single run. The odds of that happening are 1 in 65536 Completely ridiculous, I know, but I'm not Scorch has 2 main attacks, the lightning balls Ideally you want as many lightning ball attacks meaning you can hit him more frequently. Jeremy only got 1 lightning ball attack in was overjoyed with the idea that the string With first try red rockets, Jeremy finally to potentially be the world's first 23 minute We've now come full circle, back to where With Sorceress Skip being the next goal for You've previously seen how most loading zones inactive portals, which allows for early entries. But for some reason, the Sorceress loading we usually see for the normal levels. This time, the loading trigger is where it visible, and extends far above the door itself. It is reachable if you can get spyro onto As touval did when he discovered it late 2013. But how exactly does Jeremy get Spyro onto Well. Here's how.. Let's take a look at that again. Jeremy gets Spyro stuck under the helmet where To prevent Spyro from getting permanently that ejects him out if he ever does find himself This is similar to the old boulder pushing proxy," where upon the game ejecting Spyro he gets flung up the wall and is able to glide Now it's time to confront the Sorceress, It would take me an extremely long time to the basics. The sorceress has 3 phases. The cannon phase, the tank phase and the ufo Jeremy is going to attempt to skip the final the tanks is much faster. Jeremy has labbed this fight religiously, the cannons and tanks, how agent 9 behaves tanks, and how the sorceress moves and attacks. I'm just gonna let the fight unfold, and Jeremy first starts by going to the outer of where the cannons are flying in from. There's 5 spawn points for the cannons but have priority in dropping over others. Jeremy has this all figured out and simply priority to drop. Once on the cannon, you have to hit the sorceress When a phase ends, it forces you off your on the field. However, you can sneak in a third hit as long phase ends, saving a tiny bit of time. Agent 9's targeting is a little wonky in second cannon drop during the tank phase. This is what happened during Jeremy's run, and end the tank phase before the tanks themselves Once the first tank is dropped, Jeremy shoots immediately, by doing this, he does enough is already on his way to shoot down another At this point in the fight, this is the final vehicle, so Jeremy uses the tank to take down For how complex this fight can be, Jeremy In his own words: "The fight can often be my 23, but, in receiving a random second cannon I wanted pretty naturally and without much And that concludes JeremyThompson's Spyro To this day, no one has managed to get even top will keep on building. Some might be watching this run in confusion. Why would anyone go through 20000 attempts The only real answer is personal accomplishment. As an old saying goes, the harder the battle, And the reason this run has stood on top for sweet victory. He worked for several years to get this kind He spent countless hours in the lab, figuring And threw himself at the game over and over Just like anyone sets goals for themselves some find pleasure in speedrunning video games. An introspective hobby that some take quite Not only in the quest to improve your own friends you make along the way in the games' If you can't respect someone like Jeremy because some were very impressed. And that's the developers themselves. In april of 2018. Jeremy got invited to the Insomniac studio that created the game. He was able to showcase an impressive run most importantly he was able to showcase what many years of speedrunning the game. Additionally, he was able to hear insights show off cool bugs that gave everybody in Insomniac definitely deserves some credit Not every game company welcomes their speedrun has always been very accepting. They even threw together a similar event for in my good pal Xem. I've always had respect for runners like Runners that don't stop playing a category limit. While there's an obvious mistake in fireworks ignore the countless amount of things that The raw combination of execution and luck in 8574. Staggeringly low odds. If anyone wants to topple this run, they would or find new strategies to save more time. There does exist a tool-assisted speedrun Nitrofski, but Jeremy has claimed that virtually speedruns. The TAS itself is also worth checking out, but I mainly wanted to cover Jeremy's journey As of right now, Jeremy also holds the world a new record of 50:34, as recently as august He was gonna push the category to a 49, but Jeremy, of course - has a life to live outside Spyro around april 2022, but that's just Jeremy is a guy who's never seemed to care speedrunning and streaming can net you. He's just a guy that embarked on a personal A man and his game, - a man and his goal. Whether or not Jeremy's return to the game chaotic state of the world is definitely the I wish the absolute best to Jeremy. Thank you for being an inspiration to others, alive. Thanks for watching, if you like the content, Take care, and have a good one.