Ah, the charming British High Street with its cobbled streets, But there's an uncomfortable truth Because a lot of these stores are not owned big multinationals. Instead, they're controlled In fact, private equity has flown into the UK at an unprecedented rate since Brexit, such as Burger King, New Look and Pizza Express. This is a story about the Private Equity raid on some of the best known high street companies in the UK in the aftermath of both Brexit and the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, as the UK the private equity boom for the future of the British high street and the millions of people who work on it, on one thing: Debt. Let's start by unpacking how the main tool in the industry's Okay, so imagine you want to buy a little shop You use 100,000 of your own money but you borrow the remaining 400,000 usually from a bank. You spend another 50,000 pounds sprucing the place up, then sell it That covers your costs and whatever you still owe the bank Now imagine that rather than you you borrowed. The shop itself was responsible. Not you, the shop. You can walk off into the sunset The shop's new owner now has That is sort of You buy a company and fund much of often in the form of bonds. So essentially you can buy a really massive company and load it up with debt to pay for your aquisition of that company. And if the company goes bust, you don't lose as much as if you paid Let's get back to the UK to understand what's been going on here we're going to look at Morrisons. For much of his existence it was family owned and until recently One look and you'll know, our prices are low, whenever you shop at Morrisons. Look at this chart. It shows how Morrison's valuation compares to US retailers That's just a way of comparing companies even if the firms aren't the same size. And in the years immediately after Brexit, Until the pandemic came along. Then look what happened. The US retailers recovered Morrisons did not. Morrisons valuation was cheaper compared to U.S. peers making it quite attractive for an external buyer.. So in 2021 we're just coming out of Covid lockdown and there is a bidding war for The American firm paying about Just a few months earlier Morrisons had been valued But even that inflated low interest rates meant it And Morrisons wasn't alone. Private Equity piled into Britain And outlook negative. Post Brexit there was a lot of uncertainty in the UK economy. I think that was compounded by the effects of Covid. And suddenly these American Private Equity companies were looking at British assets that were valued far less than they were just a few months ago. Between 2016 and 2023 Private Equity companies buying British companies. That compares to about 81 billion dollars Essentially you walk down any UK High Street and the chances are you're going to be looking at private equity owned firms on either side. The Body Shop, Pizza Express, Wagamamas, Byron Burgers. Zizzi or New Look. In fact there are scores of High Street brands that are now controlled by private equity and similar investors. And that was because British companies You can see that in this chart. Publicly traded American companies simply became a lot more valuable A British firm that makes a dollar of American firms get 20. So remember that little shop and how its purchase was financed In the case of Morrisons, it was Here's the important bit. When CD&amp;R bought Morrisons, interest rates were low. But since then, they have increased. Around half of Morrison's debt that's around 3 billion pounds is affected by interest rates going up. So that debt is now much more expensive. The reason that's a problem is that Morrisons competes with other supermarkets on price. And now it has to pay hundreds of millions They were just about making enough when Aldi and Lidl came in during a cost of living crisis and cut prices, Morrisons simply couldn't keep up with them. Morissons simply couldn't keep up with them. That's helped Aldi overtake Morrisons To deal with the suffocating debt load Morrisons has sold assets, including a 2.5 billion pound deal It's hoping that will let it offer These problems are besetting a lot of the businesses All of this matters because private equity in the UK and their suppliers When these deals go wrong, it can have real world impact. So it can mean higher cost of goods for consumers. And we can also see jobs lost. This is something that a number of How can you ensure the increased cost We're not about sweating assets at all. Our customer experience, CSI, We're absolutely focused in We've seen the owners of Asda, the billionaire Issa brothers and TDR being hauled in front of a parliamentary committee recently where they were questioned about so called price gauging. The Bank of England has been worried about increased private equity ownership of British companies, they are worried about increased debt levels, and they are worried about the But with the general election on the horizon, as imposing It's difficult for politicians to really crack down on private equity companies because after Brexit Britain has been searching for external investment and options are thinning on the ground a little bit. Proponents of private equity firms say that the money that they bring into the UK economy is super important, because there's just not that much And I think that's the line that the Labor Party, if they do come into power, is going to have to tread very carefully.