ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome where we revisit past potent and actionable for mental health, physical I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. For today's podcast, we're list of the nervous system. Now, that might sound are the bits and pieces that about your experience of life. From what you think about to and what you you're born until By the end of this you're going to understand a and how to apply that knowledge. So let's talk about The reason I say your nervous is because your just one piece of this frankly, that we call The nervous system includes but also all the connections and your spinal cord and It also includes, all the connections back to your spinal So the way to think about how from the moment you're everything you think, and is that your nervous system of communication between the and body, spinal In fact, we really can't It's one continuous loop. The way to think about how is that our experiences, is sort of like being played in a If I play the keys on a and with a particular We could make that analogous Our brain is really a We come into the has a kind of bias particular kinds of things. It's ready to receive that information, but the brain So let's talk about what What does it mean for Well, I think it's fair to say does five things, maybe six. The first one is sensation. Sensation is a non-negotiable You have neurons perceive certain colors of of movement. You have neurons perceive particular like light touch, or firm You have neurons in your ears Your entire sort of filtered by these, what if you want to know Perception is our ability and focus on it and make to remember it. So really, perceptions sensations we happen to at any moment. Perception is under the And the way to think is it's like a spotlight. Except it's not one have two attentional spotlights. Anyone that tells you you they're wrong, and if tell them to contact me. Because in old world we are able to do what's We can place a on something, for we're reading or looking at, or and we can place a second on something we're it tastes, or our child running You can split your attention but of course, your attention, that to one particular location. You can dilate your of making a spotlight or you can make it This is very important if you're going to think your nervous system. Attention is something that is The nervous system can be or it can be deliberate. Deliberate thoughts They require some but that's the point. You can decide to focus your but it will always some effort and some strain. Whereas when you're just walking and talking and it's going to feel very easy. And that's because your nervous to be able to do without much metabolic demand, But the moment you try and you're going to feel a It's going to be challenging. So we've got sensations, we've got things that we And these get a little of us, I would familiar with things like or boredom or frustration. Certainly emotions and of the nervous system. They involve the But as I mentioned earlier, but they also release chemicals. And there's a certain that has a very on our emotional states. They're called neuromodulators. And those neuromodulators have heard of before, and serotonin, and Neuromodulators are really bias which neurons are and which ones are A simple way to think is they are sort that you would have where you're going to play So, for instance, is often discussed as the is involved in tend to create a when released in appropriate But the reason it does that is and neural circuits, more active and OK, so, serotonin, a molecule that when us feel really good our sort of internal landscape Whereas dopamine, more than is really more a molecule that are outside us and And we can look at healthy like being in pursuit of we accomplish something a little bit of and we feel more We can also look at the extreme where somebody is so of external things, like that they're sort of in this that they have the resources to pursue all these things, I want to emphasize are something that we generally We feel like they kind and they just kind And that's because they We don't really set out with a or a deliberate We tend to experience them And that brings us to the next Thoughts are really interesting they're like perceptions, on not just what's happening we remember from that we anticipate The other thing about thoughts is that thoughts can they can just be occurring like pop-up windows on a or they can be deliberate. We can decide to have a thought. And a lot of people don't appreciate, that the thought that underlie thoughts in this deliberate way. And then finally, Actions, or the most important aspect because first of are actually the going to create any fossil After we die, the nervous system will remain. But it's in the something very joyful it can feel so all think that it has some But actually for for all species, the and the thoughts that we have in our is actually carried that we take and we convert actions, such as words, actions, And so the fossil record of our is really through action. And that, in part, is why so is devoted to converting and thoughts into actions. The other way to that one of the reasons that our brain and spinal cord, but also connects so is because most everything including our was really designed to either And the fact that thoughts and anticipate the future, what's happening in to an incredible capacity for are not just for the moment. They're based on things and that we would like And this aspect of our nervous occurs through some The reflexive pathway areas of the brainstem we call When you walk, provided you you are basically have these central pattern that generate right foot, left foot kind of movement. However, when you decide to move that requires a you start to engage for top-down processing, from the top down to control so that maybe it's left foot, right left foot, if along some rocks or something in that kind of movement. So movement is just either reflexive or deliberate. And when we talk I want to be very specific in a deliberate way, to a very important feature that we're going to talk about to change your nervous system. And what I'd like to this notion of what does it to do something deliberately? Well, when you do something you are bringing your perception Duration, how long something is Path, what you should be doing. And outcome, if you do something what's going to happen. Now, when you're walking down or you're just you're not doing DPO, duration, of deliberate function in Let's give an example where that's triggering to and you know you You feel like, &quot;oh, I shouldn't I shouldn't respond.&quot; You are actively through top-down processing. Your forebrain is from saying the thing that or that maybe you should wait to This feels like because you're actually We actually can see examples doing this well. Some of the examples If you look at don't have the to engage in this until they reach But in young children, you see A kid sees a piece of candy reach out and grab it, would ask if they or wait until they were People that have damage of the frontal lobes don't They'll just blurt things out. They'll just say things. Impulsivity is a lack a lack of top-down processing. So a lot of the motor system in a reflexive way. And then when we decide we or do something, or we have to engage in this and it feels like accompanied by the release norepinephrine, which in and it actually makes So for those of you that are or to learn to suppress or be more deliberate and that is going to for a particular reason. It's going to feel challenging in your body that are released are designed to make you And so this is really because if you want to you want to understand how how to shape your how you're able to perform important thing to requires top-down processing. It requires this In fact, I would say is the entry point So let's take a look at Neuroplasticity is the in the brain and body to change And what's so incredible in particular is that we can We can decide that we In other words, our and our nervous system For a long time, it was was the unique gift of that it could only And in fact, the young Children can learn without an accent it's very challenging. It takes a lot more effort of that duration, of thinking in order to We now know, however, that in response to experience. In order to understand we really have to that might at first seem totally but actually lies at the And for any of you that your nervous system so that can go from being very hard, or of reach, to being this is especially important Plasticity in the adult is gated, meaning it is These things that we dopamine and serotonin, and acetylcholine, are what They literally unveil plasticity in which whatever information, or perceiving, or thinking, can literally be mapped that later it will to experience and Now this has a dark side The dark side is it's actually as an adult through or challenging experiences. But the important question And the reason because when something there's the release of two sets Epinephrine, which feel alert and agitated, with most bad circumstances, which tends to intense and focused Remember earlier we were and how it's kind Acetylcholine makes that and particularly restricted to And it does that by making and body active much So acetylcholine is sort of upon which neuroplasticity then which neurons were active in of whatever, day this thing happened to happen. So the way it works is this. You can think of this alertness and this of increased attention you were experiencing before. And you can think as being the molecule whatever it happens during that So just to be clear, the alertness that's coming in the brainstem, if and acetylcholine coming is tagging or marking are particularly active level of alertness. Now, that marks the and the synapses for becoming more likely even without us OK? So, in bad happens without us When we want however, we want to we want to learn a new skill, we what do we know for certain? We know that process of so that we have more absolutely requires the We have to have alertness and we have to to direct those plastic of our nervous system. Now, this has in thinking about whether or not those are tools, or just self-induced or how intensely you're to get neuroplasticity. But there's another side to it. The dirty secret is that no neuroplasticity trying to learn, during during the great event, during trying to shape is actually changing between the All the neuroplasticity, of the synapses, the addition in or at least connections between occurs at a very different is when we are in sleep And so neuroplasticity, of Holy Grail of human is the new year and everyone's And right now, perhaps and people are highly motivated. But what happens in Well, that all depends on one can continually it is they're trying that agitation and are actually required for this to get triggered. But the actual rewiring and non-sleep deep rest. There's a study that's particularly relevant It was not done That showed that 20 is not deep sleep, something very hard and then taking 20 minutes afterwards, to the deliberate, focused accelerated neuroplasticity. There's another study and we're going to go into of the podcast not that showed that if people are it could be a language and they hear a tone just the tone is playing like just a bell. In deep sleep, if learning is much that they were learning It somehow cues the doesn't even have that something that was especially important. So much so that that bell it's sort of a reminder oh, you need to remember what at that particular time of day. And the learning rates and meaning how much from the thing they learned, under those conditions. So I'm going to talk about how in a little bit more in but also in future episodes. But it really speaks to of sleep and focus, of our attentional state. When we're in sleep, these DPOs, analysis, are impossible. We just can't do that. We are only in relation to So sleep is key. Also key are periods where we're turning off our and outcome, in particular, trying to learn, and we're where our attention is It turns out that's very for the changes between will allow what we to go from being deliberate, and a strain to This also points to how many modern clinicians, about how to prevent bad from routing their way into It says that you might with certain aspects that are away from the the brain states that happened or the next year. And also, I want I want to make sure to the fact that you're thinking about not just in changing your new, but to also get rid of that you want to or at least remove the of a bad relationship, or a or some person, or some event. Learning to fear certain things to erase a trauma. The memories themselves I'm sorry to say that the get erased, but the emotional And there are a number that that can happen. But they all require calling neuroplasticity. We're going to have a about neuroplasticity in depth. But the most important is that it is indeed What governs the transition and these deep rest is a system in our a certain aspect of called the autonomic And it is immensely how this autonomic It has names like the and parasympathetic which frankly, are complicated a little bit misleading. Sympathetic is the one that's Parasympathetic associated with more calmness. And it gets really the sympathetic nervous and then people think I'm going to call it and the calmness system and parasympathetics people really get confused. So, the way to think about and the reason it's important but in particular and engaging in these these defocused states, is that Every 24 hours, we're all that when we wake we might be a little bit more alert. And then as evening we tend to become a little and eventually at some point So we go from alert And as we do that, to engage in these very outcome types of analyzes that are completely divorced and outcome in which random and untethered in terms and feelings, and so forth. So every 24 hours, we that is optimal for thinking, and neuroplasticity, and We have energy as well. And at another phase and we have no ability to focus. We have no ability to engage types of analyzes. And it's interesting are important for shaping our that we want. So if we want to and we want to get the most we each have to master both the and sleep and the transition Now, so much has been made and it is critically important as I just mentioned, learning, for all aspects It is the one period we're not doing and outcome types of analyzes. And it is critically important including our longevity. Much less has been of how to get how to get better involves falling asleep, these states of mind and body Most people don't know paralyzed during so that you can't presumably, but also is in a total idle state where it's just left to free run. And there are certain do in order to master to get better at sleeping. And it involves much more We're all being told, of course, but there's also the accessing those deep Accessing the right Not a lot has been far as I'm aware of I think we all can appreciate throughout the day, so that of sleep every 24-hour cycle is optimal compared to a solid Although there are people I think it's been written Not many people can Incidentally, I think it's Not to be confused with because first of doesn't look anything like that. And second of all, I would never The other thing that is is that we have not explored occur in our waking states. So much has been focused and the importance of but I don't think that most to what's happening and when their brain is their brain is optimized for outcome types of engagements and when their brain is for more reflexive And it turns out that there is a which points to the are called ultradian rhythms. You may have heard Circadian means So it's 24-hour rhythms because hours. Ultradian rhythms occur and they require less time. They're shorter. The most important ultradian discussion is the 90-minute all the time in our ability And in sleep, our sleep is segments. Early in the night, we have sleep. And then we go into our deeper And then we return So all night, you're going of stage 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4. It's repeating. Most people perhaps know that. Maybe they don't. But when you wake these ultradian and it turns out that we and attention within so that at the beginning of maybe you sit down to learn in some new for the first 5 or 10 minutes it's well known that the and the neuromodulators are to whatever it is But as you drop deeper your ability to focus, and to and to direct neuroplasticity, greater. And then you eventually of the 90-minute cycle. So these cycles are and these cycles are And all of those are governed to calmness that we call the So if you want to master and regardless of what tool you it's a pharmacologic tool, or tool, or whether or not it's a it's vitally important to existence is occurring in whether or not you're And so you really need to 90-minute cycles. And for instance, it crazy and counterproductive to while in deep sleep by because you're not It would be perfectly to engage in a focused And now we know how long should be. It should be at least and the expectation should be cycle is going to It's going to hurt. It's not going to feel natural. It's not going to feel like and the circuits are involved in can learn to drop in to get more neuroplasticity, by engaging these ultradian of day. For instance, some people in the day and not so So you can start to without any information about by simply paying attention, not and when you wake up or how shallow your sleep but also throughout the to be most anxious that has a correlate that we will talk about. You can ask yourself, When are you least anxious? When do you feel most motivated? When do you feel By understanding how of your perception, sensation, tend to want to be engaged you develop a very going to be required to shift your ability to engage at different times of And so that's where we're It all starts with is the autonomic nervous is a transition between But at a finer level, are the various cycles, these govern our life all the every day of our life. And so we're going to talk of the autonomic nervous access neuroplasticity, advantage of the phase that is and waking to access and so forth, all based on over the last 100 years, mainly and some that are and that point to the that will allow you to get the So today we covered It was sort of a whirlwind and synapses to the autonomic nervous system. We will revisit a lot of So if all of that didn't sink in We will come back to these I wanted to equip that we're all developing of information going forward. And I hope the information and you're thinking well for you, and what's and what's been and what's been easy of your pursuit of particular where your challenges or that you know might reside. So thank you so much for And above all, thank you for [MUSIC PLAYING]