Dune is one of the most famous sci fi books is widely read, and been made into movies and of Dune - Frank Herbert wrote six Dune that the true meaning of Dune is revealed. transforms into a worm god and rules for thousands of times. There's an invasion by dominatrixes and chairs made out of living dogs. And each book ideas. It would take many videos to fully explore What happens in Frank Herbert's six Dune books? planet Arrakis, land of sandworms and spice. the Emperor. Paul Atreides unlocks a powerful He becomes a religious leader to the native the Harkonnens and defeats Emperor Shaddam, So Book 1 seems to be a classic story of a But in Book 2, Dune Messiah, Paul being Emperor in a holy war. And Paul can't stop the violence - of powerful people plot to destroy Paul - led by with a Spacing Guild Navigator [Steersman], and High Priest. These guys have an elaborate plan to who manipulates a resurrected version of Duncan with robot eyes. Paul knows there's a plot against anyway because he's afraid of even worse possible curse, it's a trap that takes away Paul's free and relies on his visions to see - like Neo in Leto the Second and Ghanima. Paul wants to escape into the desert to die. So in Dune Messiah, Paul's a terrible mistake. He loses everything he The message is that religious and political messiah or a vision or plan can lead to disaster. rules the universe on behalf of young Leto taken over by the memory of the Baron Vladimir Paul's grandfather, and his personality corrupts It turns out that changing the environment of because without desert, there's no sandworms and Paul turns out to be alive still as a the Atreides religion and government, but ends Wensicia Corrino, the daughter of the old Emperor kill Leto and Ghanima with Laza tigers. So in the desert to unlock his mind. And Leto sees extinction, a plan called the Golden Path. Leto sandworm and will rule the universe for Corrinos by converting their heir to the Bene kills herself to kill the Baron within her. And will apparently save the human species. But to and become a monstrous tyrant. Dune instead turns to a darker more complicated leader. years after the previous books. Leto rules the Path, is to oppress humanity for thousands of grow stronger, and to think for ourselves. Leto Atreides. Siona has a special gene that makes her Siona's genes will free humanity from the control falls in love with a woman called Hwi. Trapped in loss of his humanity, his tragic self-sacrifice Leto resurrects Duncan Idaho over and over, and He teaches Duncan and Siona so they grow strong kill Leto by using the blind obedience of Nayla, rejuvenates the sandworms and spice on Arrakis, After millennia of oppression, humanity bursts migration into space. Humanity expands and evolves as Leto planned. His Golden Path gives Book 5, Heretics of Dune, is set another Gesserit control much of the Old Empire, The Honoured Matres are a wild offshoot from The Bene Gesserit train a girl called Sheeana who with a new resurrected Duncan Idaho, and to use there's also a plot by the Tleilaxu, a bunch of grey elves. The Tleilaxu secretly modified this terrifies the Honoured Matres. Bene Gesserit Matres into destroying the planet Arrakis. Cause the remnants of Emperor Leto's consciousness Gesserit take the last sandworm to make spice on helped by Miles Teg, a legendary Atreides soldier In Book 6, Chapterhouse: Dune, the Honoured Matres the Bene Gesserit. The Bene Gesserit go under the leadership of Darwi Odrade, an Mother who wants her Sisterhood to change and young clone of Miles Teg who is her father. Murbella, to be a Bene Gesserit. Murbella and Honoured Matres. But the Matres defeat Teg with a infiltrates and takes over the Honoured Matres with the Bene Gesserit, assimilating to create so much that Duncan decides to leave her. along with the last living Tleilaxu Master, and a and a Van Gogh painting. Together they start a final chapter, we see a mysterious elderly couple advanced Face Dancers from the Scattering But Daniel and Marty also seem to represent As they work in their garden, they break the and the unfinished plotlines like the Tleilaxu. beyond of the author's control. The book ends with year. The year after publication, Frank died. to the Dune series. But this open-ended last characters get freedom and self-determination, And Daniel and Marty in their garden show the of Dune. Dune was never really about the plot of the mind, of thinking, politics, technology, making a video called The Philosophy of Dune, We're also gonna cover the new Game of which is based on a book called Fire &amp; Blood. available on audiobook. You can get any one of Sign up for a Premium Plus trial membership, even if you cancel the trial. You could get the by Frank Herbert himself. Membership also includes shows in the Audible Plus Catalog. Sign up Thanks for watching, and thanks Micah Prude, Ruven Dewender, Hill1030,