We seem to be heading They all have assault rifles. One of them saw a drone. So we're taking off. Another was left behind. He didn't have time to get in a car. Hello, everyone. I hope you're doing well. I'm glad to see you for this new video, because this documentary wasn't easy For my channel and for Brut, to show you what drug trafficking I first went to the mountains the farmers who cultivate the opium Then I headed to the state of Sinaloa, To show you how drugs are produced And finally, I ended up near the US border filming So for some time, what was happening in Mexico. And last year on Twitter, This video is actually a demonstration of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel, which in just a few years has become according to the country's government. And this video is really striking of how dangerous this cartel can be. These two videos aim as the most capable with high mobility, armored vehicles, strength, The first video also expresses support current leader, By the way, you should know that Nemesio Oseguera Cervantes also known as "El Mancho", He is one of the most wanted Any information leading to his capture So we consider this cartel New Jalisco to be one of the five most dangerous transnational criminal organizations and it is doing unimaginable damage The new generation Jalisco in many areas of Mexico, one of the country's In that area, cartel members and are attempting to seize control Over the past few months, they have assaulted the Mexican army, usually using drones We have identified a number of cartels including the new generation For several weeks, my fixer Miguel, to let us film at one of their bases But despite our requests, they refused. So while researching the situation I found that some residents had decided to stop waiting for the government and had formed self-defense militias And I couldn't believe that in a big country like Mexico, armed groups could form to make up We're going to Tepalcatepec. It's a town in the west side of Michoacan. It's quite dangerous these days. because of the autodefense militias fighting against, It's been like this for months how much longer is going to last, I think the government So the militias are fighting the Jalisco cartel, small towns Right. Basically doing nothing. They're just waiting until, you know, But like I said, in the meantime, are in the middle. Most of the small towns we pass through. The little villages There's hardly anyone. They almost look like ghost towns. The city is generally safe, It's when you leave the city that the region is extremely dangerous, because part of the territory So there are actually some armies there ? Some military? I never saw the army, they just saw them and hide. And then when they pass by, they just come out. The Mexican president But like I said, they are doing nothing. We encountered many patrols of Mexican Army soldiers. They are everywhere in the city. There's a lot of police, too, that it's really a dangerous area. Where are you from? Paris, France. What is your documentary about? About the safety in Michoacan. Just try not to film their faces. What's the situation here? People think it's dangerous here. Yes, by the way... Did you come to film all by yourself? You don't have an escort? No, just a translator. But they were really surprised you know,? Because they know They know. You should call your media to let them know that we are, like, in this hot spot. I did. I did. Don't worry. So, yeah. You had the green light. Yeah. Okay, let's go. We're going to join the militia. We're going to follow the white pick-up. Okay. So that's the car we will follow. It belongs to the militiamen. It's just that we're in an area So they don't want to barge in That's why they'll move us to a different district of the city. I am looking for someone to accompany Hi. Okay. Are there others? Are there others over there? All right. These guys that were talking to are the front line of autodefence militias. And this is their land. This is their territory. And they're gonna, to make sure they are safe, and the families are safe take their land. So is it okay if I film the car, and everything? Well, there's no Oh, yeah, I didn't see, man. There's no plate. No license plate whatsoever. So, I mean, they can get away how can you track a car like that? Now we're off the main road and seem to be going down a little country road. We're arriving. Hey. Hello. How many are they? Just five. They're all armed with assault rifles. The Jalicos Oh, yeah? Yes, we can see them. Nothing's going on for now. Is it dangerous? No, nothing's going on right now. Yesterday there was some shooting, We had problems yesterday up there. Drones. But now it's quiet. I'm telling you You'll see everything. The cartels. One of them said there was a drone. So we're taking off. Those drones, they have explosives and they can blow up the whole thing. Another was left behind. He didn't have time to get in a car. Fuck. These bastards won't stop sending us drones. They look at the sky to see if we can stay here. You heard it? Yes, it sounds like But then you can hear the little Yeah, I didn't hear it. Usually, I'm used to it. Let's go and talk to them to do this thing This is a front line. Like, this is like drones, and it's not like a car approaching The attacks come I don't know if it's a good idea It's like the clearest point No, it's fine here. You want to do it... We can do it I think this place's good. OK. We're only like 40 meters away. That's the way they attack you usually now? They use them a lot. The drone drops the bomb, It destroys everything in a 30 meter range. When the drone approaches, it goes. And when he goes faster, it's. And when it is loaded, it goes: Louder. The sound changes And when he stops? And when he drops a bomb, it's: Then he drops it and we hear: It's a truly vicious method, sending us drones. And what about in your group? Did the capital of Jalisco kill Several of our comrades They cut their throats. They beheaded them. And they arranged all of them like that. They climbed up to the checkpoint. The ones over They attacked. They caught them in an ambush Then they killed them all They killed five, in a single day. They keep attacking us with all sorts of weapon, drones and even armed vehicles. This is the most criminal group I have known in my few years of life. You look very young. How old are you? I'm... I'm 20 years old. I was born in 2001 here in Tepalatepec, Michoacan. At what age can you start being in the militia? I joined the group when I was 19. I've been supporting Did you have a job before being in the militia? Before joining the group, we were harvesting mangoes and lemons. We were workers from the village to defend the points Because there's a breach here where they can get through very easily. How many are you in the militia? You mean in total? Yes, in total. In total... a lot! Like hundreds, thousands? That, I couldn't tell you. In every self-defense group, about 5 or 6 people so they can protect them, That's It's not really defined. All of you have heavy weapons, it's expensive, how did you finance all this gear? This is a community service. We're performing a service These weapons And their people here trust us to defend them. We are self-defense militias. Who buys weapons for the city? Those are the locals exclusively. They lend them to us. Why the government and the State is not controlling this zone? Actually, as much as it can. Right now, we have a lot of support So we meet on these spots. We meet on these spots to keep them free for the government it wants to move forward. Don't you think you are participating in the insecurity of the region? the more weaponized the people are, the more dangerous it gets? Every day, it's getting worse. It's going to get worse and worse Sending explosives at us. At people. If your autodefense group didn't What the narcos would do? If we weren't here right now, young people my age and everyone else would be robbing, They would rape young girls, little girls They're not just a group of delinquents. They're a cartel. They don't follow any rules. They do and undo things as they please. What does your family think of you My family is very poor and doesn't have the resources Or to tell me how to lead my life. I make my own decisions although I'm young. And I've made the decision to support and try to sustain my family What did you want to do after school? You wanted to go to university? Maybe, yeah. What would you like to do? Oh, I wanted to be, I don't know, a schoolteacher to support my family here at home, to live a civilized life in society. Using the few resources I have and my own studies, to have my own shop. I don't know. These were my goals before turning 20. We were able to have a little chat but the chief who wasn't there Because he was too afraid or Miguel, So we've got to get moving. Did you see the drone? I did see the drone, yeah. Yeah, of course. I saw the drone in the distance, and all of a sudden, they started So that's when we ran Yeah, I know, but I was filming Yeah. That's when we all ran Just drive as fast as we could and they just throw those explosives It was a really critical moment. Was it low in the sky or..? He was. He was behind us. So it was coming towards us? Yes. That's why you saw me Yeah, of course I know, It wasn't because something It's crazy. We were supposed to spend a little time We've been here for like half an hour Yeah, yeah. It's okay. Let's just get an impression of these militias, these auto defenses. You can tell they're only 20 years old. They can be in school. most kids in You know, they're having fun, cocktail bars and, you know, cantinas, and here they're fighting. It's just so crazy, this whole thing. Yeah, hat was crazy... There are many militias, like the one we filmed with Miguel And some of them as a kind of local police force, communities live. So we've just arrived basically a community police force, which apparently is now according to Miguel. Since 2013, we have been organized But because we had guns, the government didn't agree and wouldn't allow us to proceed. This situation lasted a year and a half. Eventually, in 2014, and make us part of the State. So we would no longer be armed civilians and become a governmental institution. That's how we became policemen, They saw us as an armed group, indigenous communities And why at that time the government didn't send like real police, real soldiers, real military, real police? Because in reality, the government is always passing They can't stay in the same place. When they come, they pass by, come back. But they won't stay to protect us. Don't you think that it shows that this government doesn't The government doesn't actually want to be in control. The government has all the means to control every region, If the government were to provide us with guarantees that the criminals steal our hard earned money, destroy our homes, or collect we'd lay down our weapons. It's always been clear. But the truth is, Behind this militia issue, there's there are also huge economic interests is, in fact, Mexico's This represents a tremendous amount of money, And while we were there, but most of those Some of them were ransomed And it was ultimately on the way back a 68 year old farmer You told me you were coming from Tepalcatepec? Yeah. Yes. How did you find the atmosphere? How did you perceive the situation? I found the city very safe. People walk down the street But the surroundings looked empty. Outside the city, I think people have migrated. They left. They left their communities We were told Yes, unfortunately. Why do criminals fight over these places? Because these places are beneficial Because of the mountains, the narco laboratories Have you heard stories of other farmers especially by organized gangs? They do that. Unfortunately, they do. But the producers are used to it. They are already used to the fact sadly pay them a tax. And give them a share of their efforts. It is said that self-defense groups to prevent nearby criminal groups Is it true? Yes. Yes. People united. Individuals. Individuals have had enough, so to speak, and decided to... to handle things themselves. Unfortunately, this has also led to deaths. And social disorder. I hope you found this video interesting. I'm very happy to have been able to return to Mexico because it also allowed me with him for my next documentary, I'm not telling you anything more because I'm still shooting a few things but I can't wait to tell you In the meantime, don't hesitate channel and turn on the little bell See you soon!