All states come and go. Notice awareness itself, unmoving. Guided Meditation with Moojibaba (with subtitles) For those who are present It's the most beautiful, in introducing, or pulling us out of the chaos of into the purity of being. And have the attitude of leaving everything. And you're to keep the attention the natural sense that you exist, There's no shape to that. Just here. And to make a conscious choice not to engage with, To just be aware of it. Don't fight it. We'll start with that. If you hear this sound, It means all that I've just said. Thank you. We'll do seven minutes. Om Om Now, all the conversations, Leave all that. Don't be holding onto anything now. The natural sense of being Just the natural sense of being, The mind energy will come, of course. That is the key, Don't log into it's energy. Be aware of it. But be aware that you are aware. Stay with this. Om From the mind will come ... It will suggest certain images or thoughts. You must will to stay only empty. Like an empty room but the room is not disturbed. Om [Mooji clacks the sticks] Clear. For some of you, images will come. Stay like an empty screen. Images may come from the mind, but let them move by themselves. You are the awareness. Edgeless, formless, presence. You may feel the feeling to go to sleep. But it is not true sleep. It's is a kind of an avoidance from the mind. Try to stay only empty, but conscious. Choose this. [Mooji clacks the sticks] There are no images of being. So even if I say, like clear space, the mind will want to give Beingness is natural for you. Remain empty. Do not be attracted to No shape. Only awareness. Feel the mind. Do not engage. Clear. Do not go into any state. Even if pleasant sensations or pictures come, No memories. No desires. Only aware. For some, but grace is with you, today, It's bringing the mind back to its source. No journeys. No strategies. Only stay awake. Aware. No pictures. No scenarios. Om [Mooji rings the bell] OK, ten minutes now? Same, same. OK. Good, good. Om [Mooji rings the bell] Be strict with your exercise. Full power. Empty. Empty. Clear. [Mooji clacks the sticks] Empty. Clear. Formless. Formless. Be very strict about the mind-field. Only empty. Conscious. Conscious. No cheating. Clear. [Mooji clacks the sticks] If there is any tension in the body, Stay only. Formless, limitless awareness. Unchanging. The purpose here is not merely to enjoy, All states come and go. Notice awareness itself, unmoving. Movements are coming from That's OK. Notice that the awareness is not affected. Awareness is not sleepy or asleep. It's beyond even awake. Awareness cannot be seen. Even the act of seeing is seen here. Awareness has no form. It is without intention. Natural. Reality. Core being. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Free from imagination. Indescribable. Impersonal. [Mooji clacks the sticks] Om [Mooji rings the bell] OK, thank you. Open eyes. Om [Mooji rings the bell] Eyes open. Empty seeing. Seeing, being, one. Now, as you can see, but Self-aware, non-dual Self-awareness. By honouring this exercise, that the images or thoughts cannot eclipse awareness. A dance of momentariness, in the unchanging and limitless field of being. Even beyond being. Imagination is not required. Even the sense of being, arises in this. So in this exercise, Then you will see, also, as you move; integrated awareness. With continued practice, the divisions between the mind, there will be no such shapes. All one. Without content. The very source of dynamic life. Imageless. Transcend the state of sleepiness. Indescribable. Beyond personality and personhood. The ground of being. Om [Mooji rings the bell] Copyright 2024 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.