- Hey, smart people! Joe here. Animals are great. So smart, so weird. I love 'em. I mean, I am one. But some of them have Like scorpions. They just look like Angry in the front, angry in the back. So aggressive! Seems a little over the top if you ask me. But maybe they're just misunderstood. I am willing to change my mind. So let's go to California and (record scratching) Yes, there are people who hang Maybe instead of scaring us to death, scorpions might actually (playful mysterious music) (quiet playful music) - [Lauren] I'm Lauren Esposito and I'm the curator of arachnology, which means that I study - I'm friends with one of those things. Maybe I'll be friends with both of 'em by the time we walk out of here. My first question is, can they in fact rock (&quot;Rock You Like A Hurricane&quot;) - Yeah, I mean, most definitely. At least in the case of scorpions, they can definitely rock because they can sting - [Joe] They are not subtle at all. Like, they're delivering with their entire body. Every time you look at them - I mean, is it, though? I feel like you're looking - You need to help me view I'm not sure I am. These guys have been wreaking They've been around for 450 million years. I mean, that's longer than trees. And 450 million years ago, there weren't even animals on land yet. You know what scorpions were doing? They were terrorizing anything - [Lauren] Most things in, like, sort of early and scorpions were no different. Their ancestors were these or sea scorpions, and they were huge. - [Joe] How big are we talking? - I mean, in the case we're talking like five meters, like really big, big - Did they have to be that big? That's a little too big. I mean, I don't know. I feel like that was unnecessary, but I guess, like, evolution did some really crazy things back then, and there was all kinds - [Joe] Just trying all - Yeah, like crazy experiments. So they left the ocean, became amphibious. So they were both using the but also coming up on the And some of the earliest is there's these trackways, so scorpion footprints So they left their tracks and they were coming up on So they were sort of like the eating the ancestors of salmon back then, so kind of doing what grizzlies do. - Thankfully, evolution 450 million years later, most scorpions can now fit Not that I recommend (cat screeching) (cheerful jazzy music) Which I definitely prefer over a scorpion half the length of a school bus. (school kids screaming) But the crazy thing is that scorpions' basic body They still look like bizarro lobsters with claws up front, stinger in the back. They even still breathe the same way they did back when they lived in water. They use these organs called book lungs that are essentially gills, they've just moved inside the body. And it turns out this is because scorpions just keep existing. 443 million years ago, they survived a mass extinction that wiped out around Then they rode out multiple and that asteroid that Nothing phases them. And now there are nearly 3,000 scorpion species on Earth and counting. And not just in the desert. They live in tropical rainforests, basically every part of Earth that's not frozen for most of the year. - So they've been both in terms of, like, but also in terms of where because they live basically everywhere. And so if you wanna know scorpions are a pretty (trees rustling) And so, like, what we do is we go out at night, because that's when scorpion Their activity is reversely - Because the moon's just a sun mirror, so they're just like- and they, like, don't want to be seen, 'cause they want to be, like stealthy predators, and also mostly not getting So they come out on moonless nights and they're usually just doing their scorpion things, like looking for mates, looking for food, hanging out, drinking - It's actually easier than it sounds to look for scorpions on a moonless night because they have these in their exoskeletons and No one's quite sure why. It might be because seeing their own glow tells them when they're out exposed and they can get into hiding. - But scientists still really Either way, it's how can easily find them. - And yeah, you just looking with the blacklight. And when you spot a scorpion, it's usually from pretty far away because they fluoresce really bright and it looks like toxic sludge green. - [Joe] It's just like a totally unnatural color in the environment. - It's like, bingo! So after Lauren catches a scorpion, she sticks it in a container Now, chances are if you know it's that they have a But the vast majority of scorpions are not gonna kill a human. Like, what would they even Come on. But they will hurt you. - Does a super good job, yeah. It feels like, you know, it's like the tiniest of like getting pricked with a thumbtack. And yet it makes your brain think that, like, you just got or, like, electrocuted or some really terrible - [Joe] Your brain's not Scorpion venom is perfectly evolved to make nervous systems go haywire. It has these protein that mess with the way that They're a kind of neurotoxin. They basically set off all these signals so that your brain starts screaming at you even if there's no actual emergency. Wait, what kind of volume - We're talking about a - The thing is, in that drop, scorpions don't just Something like a black widow spider just has a handful of But scorpions deliver a whole They have something like 250 unique components in their venom, perfectly concocted to mess you up no matter what kind of creature you are. Some neurotoxins in that cocktail They target the nervous which are scorpions' main predators. But scorpions also have neurotoxins that affect insects' bodies, because they're a scorpion's primary prey. These compounds basically so the scorpion can eat them in peace. They also have enzymes in their venom that help them start digesting their food outside their body. Gross, but convenient. So no matter where you you probably don't want to be on the wrong side of a scorpion's stinger. Scorpions have been for hundreds of millions of years, and the reason their venom is so complex might be because of this At some point over 400 million years ago, the common ancestor of all scorpions made a second copy of - And now all the so all modern scorpions and spiders, have two separate copies And what that means is they have two separate copies of all their genes. - So you have, like, redundancy then. - You do, you have built-in redundancy, which means, like, you have to get to work and start to modify things through neutral mutations, but some of them work. - So if you only have it's kind of dangerous for because you could break something. But if you've got this extra copy, you get to get creative in the Lego lab and just see what you can build. - I mean, I guess that that's a pretty accurate way of putting it. Like the way that mutations occur is completely neutral, right? So, like, mutations just occur randomly, and sometimes those mutations do nothing, like they're completely neutral. Other times those mutations so it makes the thing not happen anymore, like the protein not get built or like your digestive enzymes or your ability to absorb But when you have two copies, all of those negative as long as you maintain And so those negative ones and maybe at some point they flip switches and those things suddenly become positive and start to do something like produce a venom that from being eaten by your predators. - Basically this duplicate genome lets scorpions' venom Long story short, it doesn't or a spider or any other animal, scorpion venom probably has something uniquely awful just for you. But the fact that at hijacking the nervous system of mammals might also be useful to us. Like if we could understand maybe we could use the to relieve pain. In fact, at least one animal is already a step ahead of us on that. - [Narrator] Grasshopper of the genus Hadrurus. This scorpion is almost as and of course, its tail is equipped with a large poisonous stinger. - Like this mouse has been in where the mice love scorpions. They're, like, a really delicious snack. But in the case of these mice, what they actually have evolved over time is a resistance to the scorpion venom. And so instead of causing pain, their nervous system when they're stung by scorpions. And so instead of their pain their pain pathway is deactivated and stings don't even hurt them. - So they become, like, more They like, laugh the pain off. - Yeah, they're like, &quot;Yeah, - Imagine a drug that could just block the triggering of our pain switches. If we could take just a few maybe doctors could stop or offer people relief from chronic pain using scorpion venom as a key ingredient. And that is not the only promising science happening with scorpion venom. Some researchers are also working on using one toxin from scorpion Now, when a surgeon is it's not always obvious and which cells are healthy. Sometimes they all look alike. And no one really wants to without knowing exactly what to cut. So researchers wanted to find a molecule that would attach to and basically tag just the bad cells. And they were in luck, 'cause a few years earlier a neuroscientist had discovered that one scorpion known had a special ingredient in Chlorotoxin is harmless to humans, but it binds to a type and leaves regular cells alone. - So this team of scientists was like, &quot;Well, this sounds like a great idea, because suddenly maybe we could use this to treat brain cancer.&quot; And the idea that they came up with was converting these molecules into kind of a micro paint, - But first they needed to get their hands on some chlorotoxin. Turns out it's hilariously difficult to milk a deadly scorpion, so they decided to make Then they attached the and sure enough, it lights You could see the tumors. - So you could see 'em, like it actually painted it with a UV dye. So similar how scorpions - They made a tumor paint And now this deadly scorpion - And so by painting the cancer cells, you can go in with microsurgical equipment and pull out all the cancerous brain cells and leave the healthy ones. And so like really reducing- Yeah, minimizing side effects. - Minimizing side effects, minimizing the damage and hopefully helping both the mice and, well, now people, because it's moved on that have been super successful, helping them minimize following a brain cancer event. - So after 450 million scorpions have come up with They'll still be happy to stick you with it and make you suffer, but they might also help prevent a lot of suffering in the future. Stay curious. Mission accomplished. I have a much healthier I think they're buds now, okay. Here I am, rock you like, oh, hey. Didn't see you there. Thank you so much for sticking around to the end of the video. As always, I wanna send to everyone who supports We literally could not make These episodes take a lot and the support of our patrons You can help our show stick around for as long as the scorpions have, though we are a less spicy. Just click that link if you'd like to learn more and we will see you in the next episode. Hey, smart people, I'm coming for you! Dr. Joe's here to bring you some science! Oh yeah!