I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs. I've chosen the definitive P-51D model, which all around fighter and long-range bomber escort Let's start with the frame and outer skin. Hundreds of panels are riveted to a These parts are mostly made of aluminum Sturdy beams and cross-braces support in front and behind the cockpit offer some The fuselage has longerons that extend the Ribs and spars make up the wing structure, Aluminum frame components get their yellow Exterior parts might have a designed to smooth out body work and rivet LANDING GEAR &amp; The main landing gear is A separate actuator manages the clamshell doors. A moving lock pin secures the mechanism There's a shock absorber inside the The pilot can steer the plane while grounded which also engages corresponding wheel brakes. The assembly is retractable However, the rear wheel can operate in &quot;locked&quot; rudder. As the rudder rotates, the cables Cables pass through a spring loaded tensioner so they remain taught but can still ENGINE Merlin engine. It has 12 cylinders in 1,400 hp, with a top speed of 430-plus mph. nose section, and is forced through a large Engine cooling is handled with a radiator placed The low-hanging scoop is separate from that's further from turbulence-causing The placement also allows a longer duct where hot air from the radiator's normal function can be used to produce thrust - recovering as much The radiator exhaust port has an A separate engine oil cooler with its own An engine oil tank is mounted to the firewall. A front-mounted tank holds Exhaust exits through short, angled nozzles. Fuel tanks in each wing hold 92 85 gallon fuselage tank behind the cockpit. Optional drop tanks can be mounted at 110 gallons each, pushing the total possible with a resulting range of 1,650 miles. A into enemy territory proved to be a PROPELLER directly to the engine through a relatively or gear shift like you'd find in almost any land For example, at takeoff the blades airplane for a strong forward pull While cruising at speed, that same pitch and slowing forward movement. So the blades are ARMAMENTS There are six Browning .50 caliber machine side. They're controlled by a stick mounted simultaneously. Ammo capacity is 1,880 rounds, With all six guns firing together, that's There's no cockpit indicator for rounds remaining. A camera mounted in each wing can be set to turn A single removable bomb rack can be fitted to or 500 pound bombs. Alternatively, these racks also be loaded, with three on each wing. Or ten COCKPIT for technical war operations, and were not Some pilots reported having to be range missions in such cramped quarters. leaving space only for the pilot's Starting from the left side of the cockpit, mounting tube that extends through the plane to lever sets the position of the main wing flaps. ailerons, and elevators. gets used in one wing tank than the other, the unwanted directions. The appropriate trim tab can the pilot doesn't have to fight against the The radiator and oil cooler switches exhaust flap positions for those systems. for lights that fold out of the main landing gear The landing gear lever is down by the pilot's left The bomb salvo lever mechanically releases bombs as opposed to the electrically The fuel to air mixture, propeller RPM, and The propeller RPM lever setting attempts to automatically altering things like engine The propeller and the air around it functions something like an automatic transmission does in aren't always directly related to the So for an airplane, controlling propeller Moving to the pilot's forward with a bomb release button on top, Generally speaking, flight stick left Stick forward or back movement alters the pitch. Beyond the stick we see the main fuel The fairing door emergency pull lever releases Once released, gear can be manually A hydraulic pressure gauge is situated nearby. A warning light above the emergency lever Separate warning lights indicate left The various switches and knobs Bombs can be released all together or in a or fully automatic. The amount of rounds per On the left of this panel, there's the engine The left switch bank has supercharger boost On the right, the oxygen blinker moves with the oxygen consumption with each breath. Pilots need of consuming too much or too little oxygen, A pressure gauge to the right The oxygen regulator controls flow to the pilot. There are left and right The yellow line across the control related gauges into their own section. the airspeed indicator, the directional gyro a specific course of travel. The bank and turn The artificial horizon indicates Outside the white line there's the clock, a many of these gauges and instruments use The manifold pressure gauge tracks internal at the same speed but requiring lots of engine There's a coolant temperature gauge, a temperature indicator to make sure the engine and an oil and fuel pressure gauge. Turning to the pilot's right side we see Including an ammeter to monitor electrical are switches for generator and battery disconnect, Red, green, and amber position lights can display codes to indicate Late model P-51D's had a tail radar system A radio frequency tuner and The last couple modules are radio control units, and an IFF system used to signal a friendly The right wing fuel tank gauge The canopy crank is also on this Just behind the pilot's left ear there's the devices inducing radio and radar modules, Coming back to the pilot's A standard straight-ahead sight, marked with projected from horizontal lenses The pilot sets the wingspan dial at the front in feet. A twist grip on the throttle brings imaginary circle around the target's wings. This, cockpit, automatically calculates bullet range and PILOT regulations for pilot's gear were a bit more together a generalized equipment set. The pilot Also a set of goggles, and an oxygen mask with a The pilot wears a vest Parachute rigging straps encircle the parachute back pad that was often packed with The pilot's parachute is packaged beneath the to the parachute rigging and follow The jacket and coveralls are either wool or