Conjured equipment is It weighs nothing, has hardly consumes any strong as the Daedric a relevant fortify Kinda overpowered. But what if you couldn't use any armor How would that work No bugs or glitches, no and no armor or weapons Except when I have to on the heart, and I have to That's an exception. This build is going to be Strong and underdressed, Lockpicks are okay too. The because it makes the game more interesting. otherwise I'd be unable to resist We'll be playing with the OpenMW a collection of graphical improvements, The goal of this run is to kill all the Our name is questioned because Um... You know, now that I say it out loud, Whatever. I already and that's what I'm going with. Summon your gear and break some bones. but we'll go with Nord axe. The Bound Battle We're going to want to we're taking Axe and Conjuration. Also Acrobatics and able to move fast right Alchemy because Restore Health and For minor skills, no real thought process, Speechcraft, Mercantile, Strength and Endurance are our favorite And we'll take the Lady's Although we're playing on we'll scale against Well enough that the endurance should provide I don't expect we'll be I hope. Take your ring, Fargoth, Typical start to the run, go to Balmora and urns around the city. Potions, Random Bowls and Cups. take stuff from their chests, and sell Then we can use the Guild Guide steal the Master Alchemy Set there before Bound Gauntlet, Spear, Helmet, and By default, these spells but we can use spellmaking We can even bundle some to summon an entire I sold all my clothes to bit of something just For some reason, a the best with the Berserker There's actually no spell it's not like I'm missing Also, fashion supersedes That's also why I won't Gotta stick to the theme. While we're here in Caldera, let's buy I have no intention of abusing Enchanted or even using scrolls, not going to use Mark, The easiest way to use them Back in Balmora, I'll buy the Bound and I'll make two new spells with Summon Bound Helmet for one second. of XP regardless of you cast, so the best spell that's very, very to cast so you can get without having to rest In this case, training weapon is better because you go to your weapon to put your weapon away spells again because I guess you have two sets of hands, you Conjuring Armor, you keep your spell hands Bound Battle Axe spell for 180 seconds. this spell will be more and more reliable. Alchemy set we stole for and we can steal another We can steal her Grandmaster We can do a bit of with Ajira to make some also increasing her buy a bunch of the stuff Okay, after all that, we're I also got a couple alchemy Let's make some more spells. only summons a gauntlet for each hand, fortification to hand to hand and agility. endurance... but spear is skills so it's pretty Bound Glove spell with should help my 120 seconds on both seems pretty good. Damn it, Dark Brotherhood. Well, no better time than Oh, wow. Yeah, the strength of Bound Gear kind of levels harder content, but early Before getting into the main quest, I want It's mostly just a bunch of fetch Let's just rapid fire *Deep breath* Get her a copy of the easily bought at Balmora. Look at the Fetch a potion from Steal the Chimchar Make a spell that summons Axe, Helm, Boots, and Gloves for 60 but I just thought to do it while I Go to Maar Gan and check up on Oh, a scamp. Kill it. Whoops, it killed me Naked man. He's vibing. Edwinna's happy to know and now we gotta return the Once it's back in Edwinna awards us with an amulet Now let's do something with a bit of It's in the cave Shurinbal Could I just use scrolls Yeah, but having an amulet is easier. so they're pretty strong given I'm only so I should be good. Look at that. I got hit and didn't die immediately. Still This challenge might I hope I don't regret saying that. Okay, so three hits instead of one. It's like a retro platformer Huh, that actually gives I need to learn how to mod this game. Hello, Archer, let me axe you a me. Yeah, it doesn't make sense. I really regret not my Tribunal at level 1 playthrough. Why didn't I take Spear Because Battle Axe, the big strong. big strong as Battle Axe. See? Now that we're all set jewelry, we can get I won't go into a ton since I've already talked videos, so if you really detail, watch my Marksmanship It's really good. I would go Following in the man this way of the refuse to ever wear a Caius gives us is to get Hasphat Antabolis. Iconic quest. Off to Arkngthand. It's the element of surprise that gets but I've noticed NPCs won't ever Normally, Snowy Been long enough, you think Normally Snowy Granius but Nords have a 50% Granius is using fireballs. So far so good. Bit inaccurate, but that's to be expected. get some endurance attribute points, and Both because the now, so inaccuracy but also the sooner I more health I'll get over When fights get riskier, I'll It'll be more accurate, Now we don't have to XP, and it's fun to fight. crying and whining in Solstheim. Sorry, Crito, but that's just the way Our next task is to get who's totally not a in the Andrano Ancestral I suspect archers will during this run, but I Is my Nordic chest not oily enough? Dude's skull. Cool, cool. Unarmored skill Aren't all skill books unarmored? Sharn's got her skull. Or more. It's just that one of them is occupying a critical space that These two tasks were to learn a the Sixth House, Prophecy, And no matter how promptly Caius still won't give us more So we got to go exploring. Shulk kwama mine, killing foragers and Just because we haven't that doesn't mean we required for later Eventually, we have to go to And we'll have to get at the end of the What if I just went ahead and did that now? Surely an adventure through places will get me I've said it before that place to test out a of enemies, but I've until probably a few How much harder would Let's find out. East of Khuul we go. This will make getting convenient, but I'd Urshilaku camp as few times as possible. After I kill this scamp that Did I say that right? Yeah. We'll start with I wonder if the wraith of If you don't get the quest from Where are all the skeletons? Oh, well they always Something's telling me Oh, but will it have the bow? Excellent. It has the bow. I wonder why Weird. Well, off to Kogoruhn. Okay, good. At least We'll need a Dagoth Cup, Shadow Shield from Whether they're actually here I know the bow is in the There's a house Dagoth presence at least. even on max difficulty They attack slowly and but the magic dot they place on you has a aren't paying attention. Noodle Snoot is dead. We'll grab the cup. Wonderful. Now we I want to try killing one The squid face guys, He's not attacking me. Oh! That was terrifying. Oh my God, they can talk. How? Sleeper: "Have you asked yourself Because a shirtless guy told me to get a puzzle box. All right, you're Gonna have to employ behind an obstacle while Pfft, idiot. With that guy much safer the deeper parts of Kogoruhn I know Ilunibi is devoid there before you're given Gares, so maybe this place is Much like the slaves, am I right? the Heart of Lorkhan, although arguably the Heart itself to Kagrenac's enchantments, Perhaps even Dagoth Dagoth's essence that thousands of years ago. *uncertain Oh, well there's still And they have a powerful dot. Not that there was really any doubt Oh, I thought that was a Pardon me. Damn it all. Oh, there's an ash slave. I certain spawn points and not others. unaffected by the upstairs is kind of I don't even know if that's how Morrowind some sort of scripting because otherwise But if you come here before So there's something interesting Your frost spells do nothing to me. Okay, you clever dick. dungeon is a bit parts because there's So I'm going to swap to using the Fire atronachs and Oh, look at that. I can just barely survive a single Not two though. Come on. Hit me. Hit me. Yeah. You can't. Accuracy, huh? Fantastic. The shield's here. I but I had this wriggling feeling in but I want to fight the ash vampire. Easy gold. You'd I'd learn to bring a sizable amount of I know I'll be fighting guess I'll just drop a the ash vampire in a weakened Yeah... Bwah! It's not that he sounds scary. In But when that droning is interrupted by your ears voice, it's quite startling. I It makes editing easier. So All right. So ash Put that on the wiki. Let's Figured a bit of range good, but when my strength I got to extract as much power There we go. Let's Use divine intervention, drop it again, loot back up again and wonderful. I think our best option aimlessly killing wildlife I guess I could cast my over and over again, get but I still want to max out my endurance. my hand on my spear should get me levels in Yeah, it was taken too long. spell. Uh... Eh... Level three, you're probably wondering why I'm here east How could you not Neen? Well, I want to As far as unique items go, but it's good without feeling overpowered. Past the ghosts, the skeletons, and the Lord Brinne. It fortifies intelligence and willpower It'll make summoning Now that we're level three, we Caius wants us to gather more information. the city of Vivec. get Huleeya to Jobasha's bookshop without If you raise Ethys enough, they'll just Huleeya is a monster in combat We'll steal a copy of the Progress of Then we got some information Hopefully the tribunal she's been disseminating That'd be a tragedy. Normally you'd have to go talk to her in the waistworks, then go to learn what she knows Instead, I'll taunt the tax This way I can kill him before meeting want to know immediately. And because he attacked me, it Before returning to Caius will stop hand of heaven from their enchanter. You can get inexpensive from Danso Indules but these scrolls give Now we need to learn Ashlanders? What's that? A camp? Where could that be? Oh, who knows? Well, if we butter up Hassour Zainsubani, Yeah, Caius, there is of Khuul, northwest of of Kogoruhn, just outside Assurnabitashpi, Zainsubani said it was north of but my directions seem better. Wow, my recall spell Oh, the serendipity. Am I I don't know, Zabamund. You honor me, outlander. That's I'll workshop it. An Why, whatever could it be? Urshilaku burial caverns? Do you think that would actually Go get me the thing. I Oh, uh, that, that, that I think no matter how they'd be a little upset proved them to be. wind out of their sails, you know? So we Maesa, and when we to go execute a raid on Ilunibi, and kill the leader there. Sixth House enemies. most of those enemies are Ash Slaves, and enemy types to fight, and I'm not sure why. they take less damage, their evasion, so you And they have a ton of magicka, and their fists are made out of concrete. time killing them if I weren't A fully charged swing from a battle but you know, I gotta Do you think Dagoth Ur is and he's wondering what "You're training your spear, Nerevar, And that's my Dagoth Ur impression. It Uh oh. Corprus. Gotta get that There's a little trick So, every day you fortifying your strength and willpower, intelligence, Every day, those effects The idea is that you're becoming more of I guess Corprus monsters But when you get it effects while retaining you gained over the You can get your strength and I suspect there was supposed Regardless, I don't want to What buffs I get over the course of getting I'm not going to do any excessive like, maybe two strength levels. Strength, intelligence, and Divayth Fyr, we'll try we fetch a pair of boots favorite living dwarf, Yagrum Bagarn. Well, it's probably not that better five dollar word to use. Ah, He's bloated, to say the least. all things considered. A little smug, And in exchange for some boots, Not the intent, but Divine Intervention from Tel Fyr takes us to Wolverine Hall in I'm here, I'm going to With Marshmerrow, Salt Rice, and that restores both fatigue and health. it's a nice combo potion to have on It feels like a reward for exploring the Shrine sell the ingredients. Now executing the task that return to him, he tells us The Empire called him back to the capital. only his ring and pants, but his shirt. To feel I've earned his respect. It's subtle. It's harsh. And it's something only Granting another symbolic. I thought Caius and the Empire meant something. But for him to leave while To cover up with his own shirt. I angered, or ashamed. Did I fail to accomplish Or is Caius jealous? I see. The young And it seems you don't like that. I Keep your shirt. It looks Now that Caius is dead to us, it's See if she learned anything else about the Whoop. She's been arrested. Oh, I don't want to forget. I This guy in Ebonheart I want to try levitating through the whole Maybe I'll get stuck in Let's find out. It turns out, in having ground-bound And maybe you should your prison... Wuh! Almost got me. You'd think God King Vivec would have put prevent a levitating berserker from Yeah, Mehra. Holomayan. Got it. How big do The in-game model is pretty large, Do you think you could pull off the You just put a teleport We get a bunch of take them back to the Nibani Maesa, who tells prophecy and the go through, but the Shush. Sul-Matuul that secret trial is, if House Dagoth cup, Corprus Shield from the Dungar Stronghold of Now begins the final stretch Cavern of the Incarnate, Very little combat much of a challenge, so we'll try On the way to the Cavern of the Incarnate, We gotta kill him for the Zainab portion of knock it out since we're in the area. undead, all of whom fleshiness, but he's not Nerevar, yeah, yeah, Nerevarine, You know what? Before I forget. Okay, we've been named Urshilaku Except right now. Always was the past. But in the future it won't be Speedrun, Ahemmusa Nerevarine, Why the hell are you, Eww, dreughs. So It's like something out of Wisewoman: [Saying some dumb bullshit There is nothing I hate more in There was a time when every single video anybody liked them back then either. and they will always suck in the Oh, good. Good luck with At least we got to it. 100 Endurance, Greetings, Kaushad. Would you believe I've done it? I Now we escort a slave woman to the camp because At least Falura's not annoying to Thanks for the Peace through slaughter. Here you are, Han-Ammu, the loot from the bodies of several slain Therana. Here's money. Vote for me. Dratha. Here's money. Vote for me. Neloth. Here's money. Vote for me. Gothren. Here's an axe in your skull. Uh-oh. Oh, phew. Would you quit healing and just die? Aryon, make me Hortator. Thanks. Athyn Serethi, you need me to Come on, let's get out Got Athyn's support. Got Morvayn's support. Got Ramoran's support. Got Venim's support. Hlaalu time. Crassius, Yngling, here's two thousand lost this game of hide and seek. I Orvas Dren is a tough little bit of finesse, you First try. Omani, Orvas Dren wouldn't support me as dead with several axe wounds to the I trust the same won't happen to you. Ules, vote for me or I'll cut off your... And now, we're the Hlaalu I don't need it, but thank you. Athyn Sarethi, let him know that Bolvar And that's the Redoran Hortator. It's crazy to think launch giant metal And here's the final act of We meet with Vivec, and he tells We must use Kagrenac's tools the enchantments the This should defeat But to wield the tools without receiving a heavy armor gauntlet that Vivec gives us. run where we have to break the Not only must we equip we must use Sunder neither of which are bound weapons. and Keening are weirdly shaped Sunder is in Vemynal. Dagoth Ur is in Dagoth Ur. Jesus, I... it's just spooky. I just never expected. I guess I didn't but why skip what's kind of a boss It's not so bad since he mostly casts meaning you don't 10-ton fists knocking Sunder and Keening in hand, it's Watch out, Nerevarine way, piss off, Bonewalker, Dagoth Ur: "Welcome Moon-and-Star..." When he says this place where destiny Today on How It's Made: Destiny. One god down. I think this is the first run where I'll Night Eye and a constant My natural regeneration 7.5 with the ring. fatigue per second, so with the ring I'll While running. Pretty good. Onward to Tribunal. If journey through the Tribunal storyline, It's linked in the cards. You know I'm expecting to have a much How did... how did that sentence Whatever, I'm sticking with it. I'm time this time around, at a slightly higher some pretty good spells available to helps too, but maybe I'm wrong. of constant one-shots. Fedris Hler, leader of wants us to deal with Helseth is training by warchiefs and killing Down to the sewers we go. The brutal, but I think it shouldn't be This does feel fairer than I may be getting one-shot, but I'm nearly and I don't have to rely on the *giddy laughter* Huh? Really know how to bring me My first level in Tribunal content. been training this entire time? attracted a goblin army around the enemies Oh, what a fool I am. blocking them, so that's nice. Now, how do I handle this mess? What about levitation? Come on, up and over, come on. Yes! I'm too smart for Now we're free to kill not to anyone's The warchief's attacks are very I suspect the Altmer trainers just because of how fast they take advantage of their significant Probably not smart to fight two at once. I armor durability is directly proportional And that's why I love these An enemy can only block a handful of times A fast, weak weapon would get the shield breaks For someone with is eating these hits pretty well. I'm not gonna bother looting them. After sorting out the goblin problem, the Shrine of the Dead under Mournhold. I hope you know I'm He's weak, so it's hanging back while you and ghosts and this one I don't know what but I assume it's not good. super duper dart gang, or whatever the hell darts with a very potent enchantment, so Urvel certainly can't him in the previous Oh, bonelords instead This is part of Morrowind's Oblivion does this too, where that spawn in certain in Oblivion, unlike still have variable bracket, scaling depending It can be a bit more punishing, It's a difficult balance, I'll admit. because there's no strict attribute It's hard to level wrong in but it's harder to do it. I into every skill tree point in, that might But for the most part, you gotta put in Maybe I'm too much of a but I prefer perk systems Fallout 4, and even Crazy, right? A level in those games feels more than just number-go-up. oh, do 10% more damage. on board with the Morrowind-best-ever meme. Anyway. Time to Acolytes with their Greater Bonewalkers. That's good. But they're That's bad. But the Profane which I resist. That's good. But they've got a ton of magicka, That's bad. Although they stagger stopping them from That's good. Alright, enough of that. I'm over encumbered and I don't cast Divine Intervention, drop all these I don't need them anymore. And we'll restore our stats at the And that's all she Alright, Urvel. Coast is clear. Come, cleanse the Good job. Good luck Job done, Gavas. For me? Because Urvel Oh, thank you. Ain't I great. Next, we need to get Barilzar's It's a real shame. City are such cool locations, but we spend The Profane NPCs are pretty cool There's something spooky Kind of like the Bone Lords, but the Bone too many arms. I don't know. There's something... there's something Barilzar may have a Daedric Claymore as a keeps trying to cast on So you can't see him one-shotting Oh, the burden wasn't Can't see, though, so I have to Just gotta backpedal Alright, where is he? Let me at him. Now that we have the mazed band, Gavas Drin She wants the ring. Here you go. Here's the ring. the city is suspiciously automatons, strange been brought from another that one would have to making use of a specially allows teleportation to locations. Hmm. Surely not suspicious at all. The but they stagger quite reliably when struck Fedris would like us to investigate Yep, this is an It's an interesting hole. But Almalexia is less holes and more interested cult that's cropping up in Mournhold. suicide cult is probably to just It's a self-correcting issue, but she And after we learn more a god couldn't have on their own... she wants us to enter the the Dwemer weather-controlling It's ironic that she not to become a god, but she must now rely on She won't have to worry about that for aren't too threatening. on the archer's darts aren't that bad since directly is easily a one-shot It's not like I'm darts anyway, so I'm I'm trapped. Crafty Dwemer Oh. We definitely of the locks down here, but we don't right here in Radac's Forge. Also, we'll be coming back soon enough grab the explosives, and blow up We'll blow up the second pile Cool guys, don't look at I don't understand why Amalexia I know she says she's busy tending to those she totally didn't perpetrate, but it would Surely a god could just teleport, right? What if I died, and I couldn't She would have to Surely she wouldn't I was her husband in a former life. With the ashstorms indiscriminately harming the kind and merciful goddess Amalexia He's saying mean things like her hair is stupid, like, yuck, and that the tribunal temple Gag me with a spoon. Seems to dodge the darts until backpedal while he's run back into range to get staggered The trouble is if I miss. I'm pretty If I miss as he runs into attack The bond spear would probably Man, look at all that gear. I'm taking Amalexia's Warm Reflected Glory. It's a 10 point fortify health buff. Seems my armor skills or a Now Amalexia wants Nerevar's blade that was lost So mysterious the events There's a total of three blade So we got to find the other two. One The other is in the hands To get the latter, we to the museum in exchange Shield onto which a piece For one of the artifacts, to leave Mournhold to get it. The Boots of Blinding Speed. Probably the least wise item to You. Can't. Hold. Me. Back. The second artifact while getting the second Before we could fight Karrod, Helseth wants his mother, Queen Barenziah. were sent for me, not the Queen. He's the whole reason attacking us in I read an interesting theory that actually the Mythic Dawn in disguise. A lot to go after during the Morag Tong questline and the structure of the Brotherhood is Their nightmother is them. She's not some The Dark Brotherhood in Morrowind They're what the were just pretending Considering how taboo it is to worship it makes sense that hide as illegal assassins It's just speculation. "the Queen" foiled, we can now prove He's a very easy fight. He and he may have a lot of strong constant It maxes out at like 15 damage, so He's just got a lot of health, After defeating him, he gives us his shitty and Helseth gives us the the second artifact we'll Tarasa Aram accepts the Dagger and which we could take he pries the last piece If we give him two days, but it's missing the Radac Stungnthumz must have known so Yagak suggests we look Better than just a hint, we find the ghost to enchant the sword, Pyroil Tar from Myn Dhrur, a Daedric Ruin located even further We need to kill the Drawer to get a bottle of Pyroil Tar. Lesser Dramora, Golden Saints, them through this run-down all pretty easy to the benefit of these beefy They're slow, but they've knock enemies over, long enough to buy I find it interesting that staff this time around I wonder what the criteria are for I assume it's got to do with my so why is it a dreugh staff this time, Or maybe it was a six of one, half Anyway, if we take ghost, he'll imbue With sword in hand, it, Amalexia sends us in order to kill Sotha for the fabricant attack She can teleport us to she couldn't teleport down And why can't she just kill Sotha Sil Make sure you kill the Fabricants Don't just rush past them. juices for some of the puzzles. Well that thing just got deleted. And I just got deleted. The biggest weakness of Battle Axes Were two-handed Battle I know there were two-handed swords small one-handed axes that an archer might I think they also use falchions, I mean, it's a sword, but it's also got more of a machete, really. But did anyone really use these giant, And then at what point does a I guess it's just a length thing, Level nine. Nice. We need the speed juice for this room. elixir you collected and This room, however, I know when the pipes around, you need to with the right lever so when the fabricant run through to the next room. Why do they wiggle? to affect it so I assume need 100 strength for but I already have just going to avoid I'm guessing the cheese-pizza-looking just another sign of the tribunal's decay. if that's how volcanoes of you in the comments, let me know. A lot of health, can't be staggered, also debuffs you with weakness to shock. not a one-hit kill, but it uses the spell in quick my health faster than I think the weakness affect the initial damage of the The weakness debuff it casts the spell again then I take increased damage. chunk of shock damage. Time to fight Amalexia. You can speed up her It forces her to start the I'm doing this without door cheese. You casts a spell so you don't take Her magic attack does a touch less 100 points of fire damage I have 147 health, so There's also a weakness the spell, but like with the Imperfect, the initial damage of the spell. by the time she can cast another spell, and the weakness debuff has worn she should stay stagger locked Morrowind is a rhythm game. I may resist its sword regardless and so a direct hit... Ah, so close. She has a total of 3000 40 health every time she I don't know exactly how with my axe, but I A full powered attack from a bound We multiply by a strength modifier damage per point of strength above The condition and both 1 since our condition and we're not critically hitting. Armor So without armor, I'm dealing at 26 if she has maximum armor. This whole explanation, and little patience, we've And then we can use which we loot from out of the Clockwork City where Azura's is waiting Onward to Solstheim. If you want to know the story in more 1 video linked in the cards. making those from level 1 videos. But they're also self-contained, narrative purposes whenever I So the beginning of the Captain Falx wants us to find Give a soldier some sujamma, or tell us the captain banned alcohol. the shipments just And that's because self-righteous glory, stole it We promise not to narc on him, With all that sorted, we can get Weapon smugglers. of missing weapons she's a better fighter And I have no idea how difficult so I'm banking on After a bit of convincing, us to Gandrung Caverns There are five enchanted weapons Unlike "guy that's I don't think I'll get killed in a single The solution? Don't get hit. Well, I survived a hit, but I still died because I may be better level one, but this is Need a bit more Good news is they and I'm actually doing a reasonable Quite a bit of health on this As long as I stay away from the Listen, fellas, maybe Ah, broke his shield. A few more hits Three down. Four down. Time for the leader. He's He's faster than And he's longer than His range, his-his attack range...is Okay, so he's a little tough. Five for five. Back to Fort Frostmoth, to have divine intervention From anywhere in Solstheim, which seems to have been wolf creatures, and the The Skaal to the north about the attack, and we're going to bring them a human skull. Huh...since when did ghosts? They never did Oh, is it because their it so they don't want to since they know I'm We've made it to the Skaal Tharsten Heart-Fang loves thought he might already have one. He shaman, who tells us Gifts in order to restore Easy enough, There are six rituals, some are harder than time this time around than last Rescue the good beast from If you don't kill the bear will die and I guess and you have to reload to little more than a slaughter. *Disappointed sigh* conjure armor more often. There we go. Pull the arrow out of the good beast, rest Ritual of the beast We got to fondle the greedy This place was a nightmare and it was the impetus which everybody thought was a face reveal, on this channel for two and a half Hey, how are ya? I have alopecia, I also learned that I look like a I should make a tier list. Pumba, why? So it turns out, Draugr Even a little bit of bound armor They're still nightmarishly fast, though. Everything in here is now dead. We can stroll out like we own the Ritual of the wind. Complete. sun from the halls of with a Grahl at the very end. I'm I hate Grahl. Oh my god, why is it so fast? Wow. Ooh, knocked Shit. What the hell was that? There, dead. Doesn't bode Ritual of the sun He who has the seeds controls the trees. trees and plant them near the tree stone. just take the seeds and be on your but because you have to kill a Spriggan it's pretty good axe xp, so why not kill battle axe is peak immersion. Ritual of the trees complete. Earthstone. Travel to and learn the Song of Draugr aren't overpowered monstrosities They're just a bunch of weak bags of bones. Solstheim itself, it was wood elf with a Now that we're through gotta make the stalactites [*aside* I'm actually Excellent. Ritual of Waterstone. We must... Oops. The combat may not especially if you're is still deadly if you Gotta keep your head We must travel out to sea We have potions this time around so We also have enough minute without air anyway, See? And there's Zelda CDi "cutscene": of life. My, you're Ritual of water completed. That's Tharsten gives us the one of the strongest It's a one-handed mace that can do up Stronger than even Sunder itself Perhaps even if you go by Why the hell did I write that in the Next, we gotta solve a crime to prove deduced when we find Risi, Engar's wife, When confronted, Rigmor tried to frame Engar into exile so Risi would be I'd like to feed him to the As a reward, we get a go great with this whole but it's against the rules so I'm sure he appreciates us Also gonna drop all this other Trueflame, Hopesfire. That mace alone weighs 90 WEIGHT UNITS. Now as if it weren't clear how beefy and We got a draugr lord and it's about time dastardly deeds, making a big Ay-slip, or perhaps these draugr-filled tunnels him he tells us his How his lust for power How the Skaal exiled How he learned of Daedric building to destroy his people. they were still his people. He extend his life, becoming maintain the barrier protecting the Skaal who so To voluntarily imprison walls of ice, all to of you more than a monster. Aeslip's dead. Back to Tharsten. You got it. Oh my, werewolves are attacking the Quick, get the werewolf. Alright nevermind, everyone go Oh right. Wait a minute, I Yep, got a werewolf in me. That's a problem. I'll I used in the Mournhold sewers. Levitation. Squeeze through, dammit. Yes! Hey, I survived a hit Ah, Korst, you've I'm infected you say. Dear Alright Korst, what we doing? in order to please the Allmaker. the Ristaag is acquiring the Totem of If we went the werewolf path, As soon as we enter the tomb, we're I could try killing them in a tight circle, or I could Ah, shucks. The key is to know Why am I bothering W-w-w-why am I being cute? Let's Well, it wasn't easy. It It's mostly just tense since one hit The chest containing the totem has try to snipe-pick it while the wolves, but killing Yeah, it was definitely worth Now what? Meet Rolf part in the Ristaag, west Rolf tells us the Totem of Claw We must hunt the Spirit to Korst Wind Eye before blessed by the Allmaker. Hunt a bear. Easy. Sattir the Bold is dead. Grerid Axe-Wife is dead. Oop, werewolves. And a bear. Rolf is dead. Wait, is this the Spirit Bear? This is the Spirit Bear. Well, I guess I should avenge Here's the heart, Korst. Korst now tells us the third sign of the Horker corpses are washing up Korst hopes it's just the work of mortals, Karstaag to investigate. the most difficult part of the whole run. kill eight Grahl while escorting If he dies, quest failed. You need There's a crevice in the that leads into the When we enter, we're a riekling who figured, it'd be a great time He got Grahl to help but they started eating does, and now Krish the castle due to all the To enter the castle we which Krish has, and the castle if we don't So we gotta kill the At least these Grahl are a bit weaker And Krish is dead. Gotta reload. I think my against the Grahl and to keep me alive until I Yeah, like this. God damn it, Krish. Why can't you just stay back? You're too tiny. Well, With all the Grahl dead, And now here's a point where I Let me just step out of the you post footage recorded As you can see, I'm looting It's like sujamma. It can And there's a bunch of it My first playthrough... used a bunch of these for the final run it through with all the werewolves. at the time of writing But I didn't have a hard The earliest save was before I I probably should have saved So what I ended up doing was loading that my skills to match old footage at the end Then I console commanded quest so I could those fights without boosted So it means this run original attempt felt So I think this is a better alternative. and you'd all be none the wiser. But I So I'm putting it out there bunch of Nord mead and sujamma. My second attempt was what it would have been boosting potions. We good? Cool. Now that we can talk to Dulk and not responsible for and if you can't trust these little He also reveals that Karstaag It seems the blood moon *Shocked gasp* That's why Back at the village, Korst awards us Would have been nice before I went to the I wouldn't have used it anyway. With says, there's nothing hunter's game to begin, So Hircine welcomes us enter his maze, we're and we can choose to either fight This footage here is you can see I almost of Nord mead to Here's the new attempt. The strategy is the same, but I ignored and I just sprinted through the maze, Strangely enough, werewolves On the other side of the portal is or kill him immediately. a werewolf and attack we might as well just My first attempt, I was loaded up Second attempt took many more Other than that, though, he Not a vampire. He werewolf, except with a bit more The portal key is on we don't need to find we just need to run for the portal. you don't stop, the If you maneuver correctly, you can The Karstaag fight. The boozed up attempt The more challenging hits than that, obviously. with every hit risking a one-shot. weapons don't consume much stamina. With It's a pretty good ring. And that's Karstaag dead. For the final fight, I went It's a big strong bear, and strength so it seems thematically I will admit, the Aspect of Guile might A lot of these boss fights, I a bit like red tearstone In Dark Souls, when basically one hit away from red tearstone ring, you idea is to never get from the damage-boost Except in Morrowind, the doesn't let me do extra damage in return, ring strategy without the ring. And with that, the and Hircine's plot was bound equipment. Dagoth Ur? Killed with bound equipment Amalexia? Killed Vivec? Oh, I forgot to kill him! I am Vivec now. How do I float?