We've got to get the layers. Critical. Important. I don't know what other word Life or death. What I'm going to show you a good quality espresso to make a whole variety of coffees. In particular, today we're going some lattes, we're going to look at the espresso which is very popular and even the long black. simple coffee, but people still stuff it up! What's wrong with people out there? I'll show you how to make We have machines here There are so many variations But you know what? It didn't always start like this. Started probably like this But we want to be able maybe a little bit So this now becomes part of the coffee-making Testing the coffee as you So that's why we grind what The finer the grind, your little espresso machine, We've got some coffee here. The grind was so fine that it was almost like trying By coarsening up the grind slightly, you can start to see That white fleck comes from the husk. Being able to see a little portion for a machine like this, critical. With espresso machines, Almost, if you consider a table that's the type of grind So as you can see, we're just enough to fill my handle. That's really what I want. What we're going to do now is use this hand tamp to flatten But in many instances, So what I'm going to do very gently, And now I'm not doing anything. All I'm going to do is polish As I do that, up into the inner walls. What I want to do now by just tapping the side, making that coffee and then polishing the surface again. In every instance I'm not If I've done this correctly by turning this upside down, And it does. We've got our coffee in our handle ready to now attach That's warm, but we need to Just run some water That'll clean it from and then warm it up. Then putting the handle in About 45 degrees Pull it to the right And as it gets to that point, We are now going to actually 30 mls is the standard But let's measure it. What we want to see a nice crema being formed. It should be taking somewhere At that point in time, you can in this instance This is what 30 mls looks like. So when we measure it, to start to create consistency Consistency So we've got approximately that also transfers for the majority of the coffees. We're now at the point where I'm going to make you We're going to start adding But this time round, into a big cup and a big glass. We're making Same time frame, exactly the same process Now, I'm going to give the build its power levels up. So I'm going to turn it on to steam. There will always be some water that So always expel the water first. We don't want that water We want to steam the milk. Now, we've got a couple of This is a 300 millilitre. This is a 600 millilitre. In this instance, try to avoid using this because it actually steams up Small movements, incorrect So this one, the 600 mil, and will allow for some inconsistencies, but generally speaking, Really important that you don't put less milk than required In this case, the 600 mil, the bottom of the spout, Because that will allow us and almost double in size. So the technique here approximately a If you had crosshairs here, And that slight angle Right? That tilt creates What I'm trying to do pull the jug down. So as it warms to try to slowly increase As soon as it's the right which is approximately 60 As you can see, we've That's all cream. Always wipe off your And then again, I keep it swirling because needs to look like paint If you allow that milk then what you're doing to settle to the bottom, to settle to the top. It's really difficult because that separated froth I want it to flow. Cappuccino and latte. Cappuccino is a third coffee, It requires the most amount of froth. I like to add chocolate powder to the top of my cappuccinos first. And then when you pour it, And I call it the 'Ohio' method you raise it up about ten &quot;Oh, hi, oh&quot;. Now we're going to be making a latte. A latte is literally A latte is 30 millilitres of coffee, A centimeter of froth. The key here is the cream on the top. And of course, it's in glass. So you've got to get that On this particular occasion I've got enough froth But using the small opening here may not give you the result Creating a bigger aperture So pouring it out will allow more froth All right, so we've made our cappuccino. We've made our latte. We're going to make a coffee A short macchiato is with a little bit of the It's all about layering Short macchiato drinkers are We've just put our coffee shots into our little demitasse glasses. What we're going to do now is add some of the cream of the milk. I've just steamed up but I'm not going to use I'm going to use the cream. And all I'm going to do with is skim the cream off the top before I place it into the middle. 'Macchiato' comes 'to stain' or 'to mark the top of', which is what we're doing with So it'll need two or three into the same spot before you get the result, The heavy part of that cream, will start to suspend itself and create those three layers. We've got to get the layers. Critical. Important. I don't know what other word Life or death. One of the final coffees I'm going is my favorite coffee the long black. Again, Italian-based in The 'lungo', the lungo is a longer pour. With the long black's here We add the water because is approximately 30 mls per shot. So in this case, 60 mls of So it's a double shot of coffee, but 60 mls will not fill this So the hot water component has to be approximately 60 to 90 mls of water, depending on the size of So all I'm going to do is add So this is approximately 60 We're now going to add Same routine. Nothing changes. And then you run both shots of coffee And now you have a long black. It should have a beautiful crema layer consistent all the way across. Even long black drinkers deserve to I'm a long black drinker. You make me a bad coffee. OK, so we've had a big day We've got our cappuccino. Always served in a cup, probably a third milk, Lattes, again, same 130 to 150 mls of milk, and approximately And the short macchiato, made with a shot of coffee, two to three teaspoons of just And my go to coffee, but please make sure half a cup of hot water first, All of them need to look correct But the one thing every single time you make a coffee is do it with a smile on your face Thanks, guys. See you next time.