The &quot;M&quot; in BMW M used to stand for Motorsport. drive 2-Series Grand Corollas (gasp!) and it's burn cash was to go racing? No! The fastest way to a race car that's not allowed to go racing. The is a race car and on the automotive hierarchy of well, the prettiest. But it fell out of the a multiple contract recession, bankruptcy, misappropriation of funds, bribery, chlamydia, out of a warehouse while everyone was [Music] BMW's M is a very different thing now than it being that Motorsport had nothing to do with cars That's it. Done. M was founded in 1972 we now know as the granddaddy Maximum Bob was BMW's head of sales using racing as a way of building Many BMWs went racing but much of it wasn't organization to manage all of it. Lutz fixed Jochen Neerspach and they created a racing and that is a key point. BMW's Motorsport with limited liability. Oh my God those M's first order of business would be to officially quickly with Motorsport, and therefore BMW, in the 1973 European Touring Car Championship but making a competitive race car out of the big, started to consider building a purpose-built 4 racer to compete against extensively modified car to compete against purpose-built race cars One car? ...Or perhaps all three!? Motorsport cars the public could buy could actually pull in drivers were involved in those touring car races. kill 3 birds with just one engine: BMW would make and then it would take that V8 and put it in race and then to maximize the marketing impact take the touring car and make a road car out Bam! Maximum Impact! BMW chose Lamborghini of the car itself strange on the surface only road cars, but Lamborghini don't forget, a race car designer first and design to the road for the first time ever with Lamborghini to develop the German company's and then BMW immediately canceled the contract, be too expensive and the car would be too heavy. the touring car based on the road going version. wind up becoming big, heavy, uncompetitive race but cars that were made by a new company called a new contract with a Lamborghini for the E26/1: mid-engine, fiberglass-bodied race car that used There would be three versions: a Group 4 race car makes an outrageous 850 turbocharged horsepower, almost every other car ever made, would be created The race cars would be painted white with M's you didn't know where that came from. See, on a sponsorship deal with Texaco, so it took the from the Bavarian flag) and it combined them with exactly Germanic so they overlapped the Bavarian Purple! The Texaco sponsorship deal fell through, looks came from a 1972 concept car called the then hired Giorgetto Giugiaro to develop the Turbo his work cut out for him especially in concealing engines were slanted over at 30 degrees. That put and under sustained racing conditions, the heat M88 engine and mounted it perfectly vertically. that and make the whole thing look pretty. And I Just six months after signing the contract on the E26 and to the complete satisfaction of the street car couldn't be called the BMW 935i number 935 was taken by the Porsche 935, which was besides, this was not a BMW, it was a Motorsport I think I just figured out how they named M three weeks later, BMW terminated the contract suppliers wouldn't work with Lamborghini because of money for the most amazing reason imaginable: project and a loan from the Italian government vehicle for the U.S military. In the process of got caught, got sued, had to throw it all For the record, the original stolen work actual own work became the LM002 and I am episode. But to make things worse, Lamborghini and tooling for the M1, and its striking So BMW did exactly what anyone would do: with a bunch of trucks broke into the Lamborghini I am required by international law to point out but merely reclaimed its own property. Whatever. the M1 into production. To keep the engineering formed by a bunch of ex-Lamborghini engineers who A company called TIR made the fiberglass body, strong 428 pound tubular frame. ItalDesign, sourcing and assembling the entire interior. the BMW engine and ZF transaxle when it all It had a lot of BMW badges on it but this was it says it right there: BMW Motorsport. Or over The engine made 277 horsepower from an dry-sump straight-six that meant serious speed just as quick as the 12-cylinder rockets from Road tests were full of praise for everything which is all the more impressive given this was it's in racing where the real problems were: FIA for the street. Until that happens, there would be production plan meant they could only build BMW was stuck trying to sell a road version of The interim solution was to create an entirely literally just for the M1. Single-marque racing ProCar, as the series was called, would happen touring-car drivers against Formula One drivers. season, the top five Formula One drivers from M1s against privateers racing their own M1s. the prize money flowed like champagne. M even led a Formula One driver -- and you thought Squid engine as the street car, with just a bunch at a screaming 9000 RPM. With just 2200 pounds were perfectly reliable -- remember the M1 had 850 turbocharged horsepower for group 5 racing was that the streetgoing M1 was a really hard but it was still designed to be a race car Like many mid-engined Italian supercars, the and so the steering wheel is seriously offset to are so much further offset that even the clutch thing is crooked... just like the Italians who BMW originally intended to sell the M1 for 100,000 thanks ironically to Lamborghini's Financial So the price bumped to 113,000 until BMW couldn't And even then BMW was only ever able to sell 399 and a quarter as many as it intended to produce In other words, the M1 was -- despite its good performance, good build quality, and universal engine into the 5-series just for Scheisse und which became the winningest touring car ever -- From here on out you can trace The Descent of M car department that today puts its badges on every people don't actually want to drive a race car a hint of Motorsport... and all it takes is and a couple M Badges... and then people open nothing more than a glorified sport package! It's make cars. BMW is in business to make money. And built from the ground up was a financial disaster, the letter M to such astronomical Heights that Finally! There's that bribe