This is kind of what I would like the space. I own a wellness center with my We do retreats and wellness circles. Most people think that she's very quiet, but I've been connected to the realm of spirits of energy healing and coaching online from But I moved to Phoenix when I was 16. It's beautiful, but I was never really And Elise sees the move as an opportunity for But in the short term, it means being away On Wednesdays and doing chess on Thursdays. They were starting high school, and so we But it's hard as a mom to leave my other They'll come visit me. School breaks and I will go visit them. But my two younger ones I'm going to bring So how long is the flight from there to here? Two hours and 20 minutes. Okay, so it's easy for them to come visit. Absolutely. How did you pick Puerto Vallarta My mother picked it. Your mom? Actually, yeah. She did. She went to college in Mexico City. Wow. Really? Yeah. She wants to move. To with you guys. Or is she going to get her own place? She would absolutely get her own place. Own space? Yeah. I would love to live in the hills overlooking experience. You want it all. But I only have $1,000. It's a bit of a challenge. I need a minimum of three bedrooms, but four Nice views, definitely newer. Okay, furnished. I would like something furnished. And I don't Maybe you don't. Cook and you want a dishwasher? We gotta eat. All right. I really want a backyard. Do you guys need a pool? My older kids would really love a pool. I know Lisa is looking for a big house for It's impossible to find that in the city. I'm going to show her a house in the Ninos town. One of the oldest neighborhoods in You're close to all the major groceries, so It's an older house. It's not modern yet. It's four bedrooms, two and a half baths. It's unfurnished, but it's only a thousand Oh, wow. I mean, it's a really good value. Yeah, I'll follow you. Oh, wow. Okay. It's very traditional. It's interesting. Yeah. Is that a good, interesting or bad It's a little dark. So I know you're like not a big kitchen fan, So how do you think this flows for you and It's a little small. I don't cook very much, so I should be okay I like big kitchens. This place. Is $1,000, so keep that in mind if you're On? So when I get that twinkle in my eye. Yeah, yeah yeah, yeah. I'm actually just listening in this and like dancing, you got. All of that and we just walked into the Yes. Before you're thinking, you're feeling. I'm definitely a feeler. If it's strong energy, it's like, bam. Okay, so that's a good thing. It's a good thing. So far so good. So far. So good. Clients, typically when they walk into a cabinetry. She was analyzing the energy of So one of the bedrooms is over there. Since all the kids aren't going to come set up like a home office. Okay? And then have a fold out when the kids There's a half bath over there, and then back. Oh, look at this. You have a meditation space here. Yeah. It's cool huh? Yeah it is. I actually really like this. It's a neat little space. Yeah. And then you have your massive bedroom here. I it's not nice. It's not my cup of tea. No. This wall shrinks the room to me. What is this? It's a pretty big sized bathroom. Right. You like the energy vibe of it? No, no. It's a little bit dilapidated and old. I understand that this is not the It's getting a lot lighter up here. But she's getting 2000ft2. And that excludes the 3000 plus square feet So this is one of the two bedrooms. It's much lighter than the last one. Yeah. Which one of the kids would get this room? Probably rain because she likes views and Unfortunately, you're going to get the dark She's going to get the bright bedroom. Absolutely not. No, no, this is the fourth bedroom. Oh, this is my bedroom for all the light is. I like the glass, but there's still What do you mean by that? I'm just getting that. There was sadness. I might have to, like, cleanse it all the No matter how pretty it is. Energy doesn't get stopped by walls. It's whatever the frequency is around you. That's a lot to take in. A lot. You cannot beat the price. But the house itself was sad and it's not So what can we do about that? All, you'd have to do a massive cleansing, Does this mean that you would not consider Yes. I'm going to show her a penthouse. That's immaculate. Is she going to go for it? Well, if she wants it all, she's going to We're in the 5th of December. Neighborhood goes from the beach all the way So it's half flat and half hills. Oh, okay. It's primarily residential. When you go into the hillside and the flats Yeah. And over the years, it's growing a I'm going to show you a fancy penthouse. It's three bedrooms, three baths. Okay. It's completely furnished, but it's work for you, but there are a lot of great All right. You're open to that. I'm open. Let's take a look. Cool. That's really pretty. It is very nice. Look at that water feature. That's totally cool. Oh, wow. Now this is nice. This is very unique because you have the Like almost touch it. Wow. That's a good. Well, it's a good. Wow. Yeah. Feels good huh. There's not a lot of cleansing that I'll have I know you're not big on the kitchen, but It's gorgeous. It's kind of strange. Maybe it's not I like beauty, so everything for me, as long I like how you're saying that into my eyes. Yes. Beautiful. I love the colors orange and Well, you don't know, but energetically chakra, which is all about your self esteem. And that's what you're looking for in a home, Absolutely. Wow. Do you just feel how good the energy is Yeah. Can you feel it? This feels really good. Make a sharp left turn. I want to show you the bathroom here. I mean, this is ridiculously big. It is. All right, so let's go on the This would be the main bedroom up here, for It's a massive bedroom. There are a lot of extra spaces here. What do you think I love it, yeah, it's a It is a good vibe. So which one of the kids deserves this This kid right here. This kid. You. She's vibing with the place I mean, it really has all the bells and There's something else about this penthouse. You're never going to find it anywhere else, Oh, my goodness, it. Has its own movie theater. Get out of here. And it has ticket lady to Whoever put that mannequin there thought it I'm sorry. It was not a good idea. Oh, wow. But the theater is incredible. You got. Five kids. Oh. This is like a mother's dream right here. Silence. I would come in here and hide, do $1,500. Even without the movie theater, it's here. Oh, for sure, this would be a fortune This is very tempting, because it feels And that's what it's really about, right? This space is very unique. It's amazing. Up top. You thought that space was pretty cool? Yes. Wait till you see this bedroom. Oh, downstairs. It feels like someone was trying very hard with the rest of the house. Honeymoon suite? Yeah, but who in my family is going to live Well, someone's going to have to be here. Unless with the two and four year old feel Last resort. Okay, well, I think the one space that's incredible outdoor area. Oh my God, taking. All this in, this. Is perfect for me. But with the two little ones, which is a I think there's just some concerns that I You got the location and all of this with the difference. If you're finding the happiness It really is a huge consideration. But after showing only two homes, Daniel is most. To get analyze the space, Daniel has This neighborhood is called Gaviotas. Kind of suburban. Reminds me of being back at home. The streets, the neighborhood. We're close to the beach, probably like a 15 It's a very traditional rustic house. It's four bedrooms, three baths, has a Oh, nice. It's furnished and it's priced at That's a little bit of a stretch. Yeah, it's a lot of bang for your buck. Let's pop inside. Okay. Let's go. Welcome home. Oh, my gosh, this is huge. It's like a palace, isn't it? It is like a Spanish mansion. You're smiling. I'm smiling. Usually this would not be my style at all. It's very old, and I wanted contemporary. There's something special about it. It's a special house. I think it's a really nice living room, And that way if you're in the dining room, On them. Oh, look at this. Okay, since you're not a big kitchen person, It's kind of dated. Very much. So. Yeah, but this is the reason why I Oh my goodness, look at this yard. I literally see all five kicking the soccer And it's walled off so you don't have to know, getting incredible. It feels so good out here. Yeah. So there's a bedroom here okay. And I think it's a nice size. It is actually a really big bedroom. That bedroom actually connects to this Wow. Okay. And I think this is really important for you. You actually have a full size office. Oh my goodness. Look at this. This is huge. Yeah, a little dark so we can brighten it Maybe with some more lighting. Yeah. Let's look at the other bedrooms upstairs. Absolutely. I definitely prefer one floor. But if I am going to have stairs, it needs It definitely have a more luxurious style. But for the size of my family, it's It's a big bedroom. Well, there's your bath. Oh, what do you Oh. It's not a bad. Oh, it's a little dark in All right. There are two bedrooms here, which I think This would be one of them. There is a shared bath. So why don't you go through the bath and Okay. Yeah. Okay. It's a little darker and there's a big Are you feeling something off? Can you tell? Like I'm bracing myself. I'm kind of getting used to you. So I know, like something's up. This room is angry. It's definitely a person from a past life. And you feel. This person is angry. It's aggression, actually. All right, well, can that be fixed? There's always something that can be done. Always. All right. I don't want to have to do a bunch of in a space where it's already the energy So I have to work less. And overall, the bones are there. You know, $1,250. You're getting four bedrooms. Yeah, you got the beautiful backyard. But it's not my style of home. It's not modern. But at least she's getting Something is better than nothing. This has been the hardest decision for me I love to live. If I had no kids versus the practicality of There's a lot going on with Annelise and her about. So you mentioned you saw a penthouse up in Yeah. There was no ocean view, but it was amazing. Jungle and like city. The duality of the house is very strange. So upstairs, light bright. And then it's like going down into a Where would they be? Way across the house. But they might actually have to share the The third house in Las Gaviotas. Okay, it's a huge house. The backyard is massive. It's good you've. Got five children. So how many bedrooms? Four bedrooms. Okay, that's more like it. It's not my. Style. It's a little darker. The energy in one of the bedrooms was a I'm not a fan. What are you leaning toward? And, Elise, you know you and you know what My dream versus my reality. The penthouse. I'm hearing a lot that you the one that you want to choose at this I'm not really sure. The downstairs bedroom is a hard pass, and It's definitely for the kids, more so than Think about it like this. You're coming down here and you're renting you want. Then maybe as a first step in a I think you're right about that. It's not always what you want, but it is. I think what you need right now. When I got here, it felt like a piece of my feels that same way. This was such the right move to make. The kids are happy and running around. It's just a peaceful place. I do feel like I made the right choice as It had to grow on me a bit, but this is good