Transcriber: Sylwia Magon (Panoan) Maasharai. Hello, everyone. This is how we say maasharai. (Singing in Panoan) My name is Nixiwaka, and thank you very much What I just did, this is how we say thank you, talking about nature. I feel very proud to be here and to represent my people, tribals people, the animals, birds, and nature. We're living in nature. And the reason that I'm here is to talk about the importance of land for tribals people. The importance of land The first time I came I, I didn't just speak any - so it was quite hard. And I was also - (Laughter) Very cold. And then I - Everything is different; Many people, especially in London. It's a beautiful city. And I went to a school, so I studied the English language. And then, my colleagues, and also I started looking for a job. And then I found a job as a waiter. I learned how to make coffees; I was selling lots of coffees. I learned how to do heart in coffees. (Laughter) And leaves. So I was - I was one of the best. (Laughter) And just at that moment, it helped me a lot to improve my English was through my first job. And then it was like for a year. I was tired of making heart, And then I felt this feeling. Something was touching me, and it was saying, &quot;Nixiwaka, you need Now. You are ready to move on.&quot; And that was my grandfather. He passed away two years ago. And when - before I came, he saw me here. He said, &quot;Do go and behave. Do good things.&quot; And he was telling me, my ancestors. So I was, okay, I need to find something. And then what? What I am going to do? But because in Brazil, as many tribes, we had problems and struggle to survive because of our land, and my ancestors were the same. And my people, we fought hard And then - I always wanted to do something, Travel - discover this world. And I met a friend. He is a Survival International supporter. Survival International for tribals peoples rights, in UK. It's based in London. And then, he introduced me And I went to Survival, I was - yeah - talking with people. And then, now I'm working representing my people, and telling their stories. And then, that's the reason I came to London: to learn English and, now, doing good thing Where I come from in the west of the Amazon in Brazil. We have a great connection with land, and nature is so beautiful, but people, the majority, they can't see, they can't feel. So they need more time to understand. But nature's being destroyed very fast. When - Especially in Brazil. Lots of deforestation, people dying, lots of disease. In the past, we tribal people didn't have the immunity so the whole tribe died. My tribe, we - around 50 years ago, we were only 200. Now we are over 900. It's good because, maybe, three generations, we created the immunity But in Brazil - Brazil is a home which is their tribe, they have never had even with us. When they see us, they shoot their arrows, They don't want to be contacted. And their life is in danger and they live in the rainforest. And that's why I'm here: to talk for them. Because I think everyone - and this choice must be respected. And we tribal people, because government, most of the time, they're not respecting When development, mining, construction of roads, dams happen inside of our territory, it change everything. And lots of tribal people, they - they don't know money, and they don't want money. Why money? What's money? They just want their lands, That's money. That's the best way they want and we want. But also, having me, having the opportunity I also enjoy the use of technology, is helping us a lot. So in my tribe, we have Internet, we have one telephone box, we can communicate. So there are good things from the West through the education. And what I'm doing now for our benefit and to protect nature. People talk a lot and we think the way we live, to keep the balance and to keep nature, to keep this beautiful planet But, again, the majority of people, they have lost But now, we are in a moment and to understand and to respect - that applies for everyone. And the way we live, we always open, our heart opens to share how we live, to share our spirituality. It's something the use of this drink, It is something that you, you go further. You go further, but you go inside of you. You see yourself and your family. And that's very natural, but many peoples, especially people it's this drug or something bad, but it's not. It's just nature, it's how nature operate. And we have this knowledge - we have this sacred knowledge And when we see nature being destroyed, our life is being destroyed. Our life is taken The use of medicine plants - we have shamans. We have one shaman, He's like this size, and he's cute, and I hug him. He's a shaman, he - and he knows about a lot of things And that's knowledge And lots of outsiders, they are coming, they are learning, they stay for a while, they enjoy. We wear our headdress. We have a great respect, like if you buy your first suit, it's special for you. For us it's the same, and we wear And now, we also have In the past, womans, they were not allowed many years ago. Today, we have great womans leaders. We have - I have two aunts. They are both shamans And I think that's the influence And we also change. We are following this world. Many people say that indigenous people, It's a disrespect, to begin with, because we are not. We just live differently. And we live in the same time. We have developed this way, that lasts for, you know, forever. But we live, we die. And that's the way that people can learn. I'm adapting, living here. I am able, so you do the same. But, you know, different minds. We - I don't think that we have enemies, we just have people and we need to show them, and we share together this wisdom. In Brazil, there are more than 300 tribes. Many of them, they've been evicted, and the land is this place Survival International It's the only organization that works and I'm with them. There are a lot of things to say, to do. Here, right now, I feel millions of people on my back, telling me to show to the world nature, and the importance of land and for the whole planet. It's - it's ours, it's yours, and people are not looking after, And we are here to work together, to hug. And I would like to say my great thank you for this opportunity, and good luck to everyone. Thank you. (Applause)