Magic is the word when I think It's about alchemy, the iron in the ground, You just have to listen. And you will You will be changed. You're gonna hear that ever were. One, two, three! One, two, three. Ow! Uh! All right! Uh! Got to know how to Pony Like Bony Moronie Mash Potato Do the Alligator Put your hand on your hips, Let your backbone slip Do the Watusi Like my little Lucy Ow! Uh! You know, I feel all right. Feel pretty good, y'all. Na, na-na na-na, na-na na-na, Na-na na-na Come on, y'all, Na, na-na na-na, na-na na-na, Na-na na-na Ohh! Dancin' in the alley With Long Tall Sally Twistin' with Lucy Doin' the Watusi Roll over on your back I like it like that Ohh, help me Ohh, help me We started to hear There was an amazing feel. Kind of, uh, magnetic, And then after a while, comes into the picture, and that was when I said, we got to go down there,&quot; People now still ask me, Muscle Shoals?&quot; It's just a little village Why does that music It's an enigma. How did so much music in such an undescript There was just something something that still At different points in time, there are certain places where there is a field At this certain point in time there was Muscle Shoals. It's a unique thing, like that, it doesn't happen It's usually somebody like a type of maniac. With the drive and the foresight and he's a tough guy. This area here is where And it's helped me develop My father and we lived way out No houses, no neighbors. No kids to play with. The floor in our house The heater was made We slept on straw beds that we pulled up We had no bathing facilities, And we just kind of grew up That made me Somewhat driven. I wanted to be special. I wanted to be somebody. Can you slip away, Slip away, yeah Oh, I need you so The first record I cut was a record called Brand new building. And I was hoping it had I didn't know. So I brought my band in, in the control room Okay, all set? I turned on the microphones the talk-back button and said with a slight crackle One, two, one, two, When they kicked off I sat behind the console I just had huge chill bumps And the hair on the back And of course, of the Muscle Shoals sound. I've got to see you Somehow Not tomorrow Right now I know it's late, whoa, So come on I've heard entertainers that we got some kind that they can't get They have to come here. It's that oh, deep down coming up out coming up out There's that I won't tell Anybody else I'll keep it I know it's late, whoa, So come on That sound made it through and Britain. And we felt the blood We felt the-- And we wanted some, You gotta understand had its own Different from Memphis, different from New York, How did it happen of 8,000 people, of music? It always seems You know, even you know, And then of course, And here you have It's like the songs We're at a place It means it's a special place, It's a place of music. And it's a place I've been working on it There's over eight million It's a memorial to She was an American Indian, My grandmother's people that we call the Tennessee Nunnuhsae, the river They believed a young woman sang songs to 'em, In the year 1839, was removed from right here She was taken to what is now present-day When Grandmother got out there she said there were She went and listened to all and there were no songs. They couldn't sing, They couldn't hold And they got to be So, she started She walked It took her roughly She had to come back The river that sings. The great dams have softened but if you go to very quiet you can still hear I know; I hear her songs When I was a young man, starting Billy Sherrill and I, got a phone call from to start a publishing and had the sum of $500 which we thought was So, Tom Stafford We went in business over Tom's We got a few cuts, and one day, I was called in and they advised me that with the way things that I was a little too much And said that they wanted while they were having and that I was just and too, uh, and too pushy. So, they decided to-- So, I obviously went home, and was very bitter. During this time, Reynolds Metals Company And I married my first wife, She and I had been married and we went to Hamilton It was about sundown, who was traveling I swerved to go around I hit some loose gravels and went into a spin, The car turned end over end and landed on its top. I didn't know if she was out in the car, it was I began to yell for her except I could hear of the gas tank And I thought, of course, because the car's and I can't get out. I got out of the car in kudzu vines Finally, some people stopped and we found her. I nursed her on the way About two o'clock the doctor came to me and said, And, of course, I became a drunk, A tramp. That changed It was hard times was my music. I slept in my car. I ate in my car. And I wrote songs But I continued playing music at that time, I joined a little From that time on, I wrote songs, and chased the women. Somebody loan me I need to call my All this gravitated towards, with the rest of my life to come back but this time I came back I came back with a determination kick some [bleep] And I was going to make it And so I set up shop in a little I closed the doors, I didn't talk to girls, I didn't do anything and I was totally obsessed And so shortly after that, who was a local bellhop And he played me a song And I said, So he said, &quot;What are we gonna And I said, &quot;We're gonna He said, &quot;When,&quot; I brought my band in. Norbert Putnam, Jerry Carrigan, and Terry Thompson were to be in the studio Now, you gotta realize We're all 18, Rick's what, He had the vision Rick made records with that became hit records, You asked me to give up You tell me I'm not the man The very first record, by Arthur Alexander I had anything to do Not the second or third, was a hit record. I know Rick was determined and he did it, I'm of the opinion Muscle Shoals movement That's up to her Yes, and the Lord above You better move on Rest of the world started Thank you very much. We're gonna do a slow one now, &quot;You Better Move On.&quot; It was the only thing And the girls really adored It was a big hit for us It was our If you ask me Of the girl I love I think the Beatles beat us by, like, You know, they cut &quot;Anna&quot; &quot;Better Move On&quot; There's, uh, You ask me I've ever had At that time, we had but it's interesting one of the first things a Muscle Shoals production, Better move on This original Muscle Shoals opened for the Beatles their first American And, of course, we all go to Nashville. The guys went on to become and learned from experience man, we can do it. When they left, We were the only game They took the ball and they rolled it Individually, I never really But together, we were We had the magic We liked playing funky. All funky was was that how to make it smooth. We're rock 'n' roll You just didn't expect them or as greasy I know a place Ain't nobody cryin' The grooves that we set up rhythm and blues music. I remember when Paul Simon talked to Al Bell. And said, &quot;Hey, man, that played on He said, &quot;That can happen, are mighty pale.&quot; Let me take you there I'll take you there You got to, got to, A lot of people could not that my whole band behind me. People have arrived expecting to meet and they're a bunch that look like they worked around the corner. Muscle Shoals rhythm section: Jimmy Johnson, guitar. Roger Hawkins, drums. Barry Beckett, Later on, became known A strong rhythm section when you went in the studio and the same players, and it was hard We began to bring in anybody that wanted I guess during high school, to FAME studio. That was like a melting pot I was, as a teenager, I came up here And all these people here I mean, nobody knew We're just doing our best and learn how to write songs Most of these guys are country people. We come from Arthur Alexander, they were the pioneers down here, These are just I'm from a small town of Muscle Shoals. I was a little guy choppin' cotton, in the field that always said my voice would be heard but I never thought Percy worked at I was a orderly working I'd sing a song for 'em, and they'd go to sleep. I got such a big kick and I could see my patient smilin', you know, So one day I was invited to here in Sheffield. And it just so happened who was a disc jockey and he heard me sing He loved the melody He said, &quot;Percy Sledge, in cuttin' a record?&quot; I remember the day &quot;Will you come do keyboards Be the first recording When I came in to I was shakin' like I was scared. When a man Can't keep his mind He'll trade the world Every time that he sang he had different levels of the song. And everything had to be Bring the level up All I had was a voice, about no singing, Somehow, I got one down, with a great vocal. He'd give up all And sleep out If she said that's the way All this was just so new made me feel like you can do it, I used to call them Donna Thatcher, My first wonderful experience &quot;When a Man Loves a Woman&quot; and you'd never know Baby, please don't Quin called me and said, &quot;Do you know And I said, &quot;I think so,&quot; and called Jerry Wexler Jerry Wexler was probably in the world. It was a man named Rick Hall in Muscle Shoals. I said, &quot;You told me I thought was a big hit to call you, Play a little bit And I heard some music and it was fabulous. What do you think? We pressed and distributed and that was a big hit. When a man That began a great relationship Atlantic Records, And of course, the record's classic records If she's played him He's the last one Same melody that I sang I just wails out and let the echo When a man He can do her I, George C. Wallace... During that era of recording you gotta remember that was standing in at the University making sure that no black people And I say segregation now, and segregation forever. This was a politics past the color It's the kind of thing of this era, they wouldn't want I think of all the times from the studio I was somewhat frightened when we'd go and buy dinner That's where you saw, what are y'all doin' Even though the civil rights in effect, it still hadn't that this is I have a dream down in Alabama one day right there little black boys will be able to join hands and white girls I have a dream today. When I was it was always, uh, I had to say, or, uh, Mr. Jimmy.&quot; But--but in the studio, it was Jimmy, it was Robert, Go that way. On the go Or something like, Do it one more time. You just work together, who was white You thought about and it was the music. We were color blind. There was never in the studio here ever about, &quot;You're black And you think about They didn't believe could live together. And here are that prove that not only you might not know At the time, Music played a big part of people, especially By us being in Muscle Shoals music together, I think it went a long ways that we all My stock went sky-high the Percy Sledge single went and he said, &quot;Rick, with Jim Stewart at Stax any more records over The welcoming mat for me So I got the idea and saying, &quot;Hey, can I bring and, uh, make some records Which we did. I gets off the plane, and here, this long, tall we call 'em peckerwoods. I met Wilson Pickett, He looked like, to me, He walked up like &quot;Hey, Wilson, we gon' cut Why, we gon' really cut Come on, Wilson, come on,&quot; I'm nervous, Now what this white man know a Wilson Pickett? And on the way I'll look at him and I could see it &quot;What am I doin' down here in Alabama?&quot; We went through people still pickin' cotton. I said, &quot;Is that what &quot;Yeah, Wilson, they're still You can see his studio Pickett had a very I was there to make it work, You know what I mean? On session, if he didn't like and didn't like he's just liable Say, &quot;Come out, son, I was nervous, and I was gettin' things checkin' things. Our band was super nervous for Jerry Wexler. We had this feeling that what he asked us to play, on the spot. I was apprehensive, because it was from what we had been which was recording arrangers, and studio players We would get in the studio of this, a little bit and then we'll go to lunch, and we didn't like that, you know, We would sit there and we'd Those guys are sittin' there and just find the groove, And I'd be right there and we'd all Rick Hall, he stood there Rick Hall was He built the studio. He knew all the electrical And that drummer they had He was a funky drummer, wearing himself out He was just-- We was cookin' away and Wexler was in He said, &quot;Baby, Hey, baby, Rick Hall had a rhythm section This was very inspirational Jerry came out we had just cut and he walks out and Roger's ears had never heard He said, &quot;Roger.&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, sir?&quot; He said, &quot;Roger, And all of a sudden, I just kind of relaxed just like he said After my first night I was convinced that that could Mustang Sally We cut &quot;Mustang Sally&quot; &quot;The Land of 1,000 Boy, these dirty slickers &quot;How do you like that, Pickett and I were We was nitty gritty. Down in the cold Oh, guess I have to put your Everything was just roses Jerry took a liking from the very beginning. There's just something I call it the sonority It's the way the sound on the ear, And to me, that's in a phonograph record. Oh, I got to put your flat The Rolling Stones had it, and they had it, Muscle Shoals became the place and loved to go. I grew up north It really wasn't just a dirt road. The only way to get we had no car. My mom and I from the dirt road down to catch a bus which was five miles away. I was born in Sheffield, and graduated from While in high school, Hollis Dixon Was the first rock 'n' roll and I just fell in love I thought, &quot;I've gotta learn You got Roger Hawkins The Del Rays. Jimmy Johnson was playing I remember hearing when I was going to And I remember, the fraternity house. So I had to stay outside I mean, the ground It was such We met each other at the Tuscumbia at the square dance. Half the night and then after that We made $10 each After Wilson Pickett, I became And so he said, &quot;I'm thinkin' her name is Aretha Franklin. She's on CBS Records they can't sell records I'm only one step I had heard her on Columbia. You couldn't really One step is These lush arrangements which weren't no one knew she had but lots of people I've still got to find out I don't know yet. I'm trying to find I wasn't exactly hoping any hits but the way it went, they A week later we were in we signed her up. He said, &quot;You know, I've got down in Muscle Shoals, and these cats--these cats You gonna love it.&quot; She walks in, right over there. And she's got this aura I mean, the girl was special. I remember watchin' the guys and they'd carry on except looking So she walked right over She sat there a moment. And then she just hit this Didn't anybody have to say, We did what we called head and there was no real music The musicians would just listen and then they would decide what I think we heard a little demo &quot;Never Loved a Man To me it sounded I'm thinkin', &quot;That's the song There was discussions. Jerry Wexler and Rick. There was a little confusion Everybody was We can't find a groove, a beat, They were--just had but finally And suddenly They had a song, but nobody knew what to do. Not even all these geniuses. But out of that quietness And I said, That's it.&quot; Aretha jumped right on it. You're a no good You're a liar It was cut within You didn't have to ask, Everybody knew it was a hit. I think everything came together They got Aretha to record in Muscle Shoals. It was really 'Cause I ain't never I ain't never I ain't never, Loved a man the way that I Coming to Muscle Shoals That's where I recorded which became my first So absolutely and the turning point Oh oh oh Yeah Yeah I ain't never loved a man We cut &quot;I Never Loved a Man,&quot; still regard as being and really funkiest record. Well, this is what That's one the ones that give you the ones that give you the ones &quot;I wish I sang a record We had a whole week planned but at the end we found out There was a ruckus. One of the horn players, and Aretha's then husband, got into it. This new horn player started &quot;Aretha, baby,&quot; that Ted White They'd been drinkin' and now this camaraderie turned into some kind Ted comes into the control room &quot;I want the trumpet player I looked at Wexler and I said, He said, &quot;Go fire him.&quot; So I went and fired him. That later caused a big argument I got a hold and I took a couple-- And I said, &quot;Wexler, and get with Ted and them He said, &quot;No, And I said, &quot;Yeah, well, I'm I said, &quot;I'll go over We'll become buddies and I'll work He said, &quot;No, Rick, don't go, So anyhow, I had had and I went over then. Banged on Ted and Ted came to the door. And he started pointing his And we fought He was trying to throw me and I was trying It was downtown, on about My former husband and I decided I had never been or away from home, And so I just said, And when I got to the airport, I said, &quot;Whoa, this son of a gun Unbelievable. They left town So Wexler came &quot;I will never set foot in this I will bury you.&quot; And I said, He said, &quot;Why can't I?&quot; I said, I'll be around So the next day I showed up &quot;Session Cancelled.&quot; And I thought, &quot;Oh, man, But a few days later and asks if we can and finish the album there. He didn't have On that album was What you want Baby I got To be a part is unbelievable. It was milestone stuff. Is for a little respect - Just a little bit - When you get home - Mister The Swampers went on on many hit records. &quot;Sweet, Sweet Baby,&quot; &quot;Think,&quot; &quot;Call Me,&quot; &quot;Chain of Fools,&quot; Of course it worked out And it's been one of the era that came with a studio full How do you figure it? This is the Queen of Soul Here we have and David Hood, Barry Beckett, coming out with and most intense R&amp;B R-E-S-P-E-C-T R-E-S-P-E-C-T Oh a little respect Sock it to me, sock it to me, Whoa, babe, Just a little bit I get tired You're running out of fools So after my dispute he took Aretha away. And on my part, I felt like so I went to Chicago 'cause he said, to get you to do some sides I said, &quot;Who do you He said, &quot;I'd like you When I looked at him, So this is fame, and I'm in Alabama you know, I'm gonna get some you know, Etta James is probably one of Leonard said, &quot;You know, Rick, When you think she's singing if you'll kick her [bleep] he said, &quot;She can rattle You thought One to love you Rick Hall was actually that I had seen that that was an engineer We recorded With Clarence it was, but with Etta it was, She didn't want because I think with somebody that she was gonna I would be so hardheaded &quot;Don't tell me nothin',&quot; She had a temper I said, &quot;If you'll do it and it's not happening, we'll throw it I finally realized everything that he used he was always right. Tell mama Tell mama Tell mama And, of course, the record was Everybody said that that song you know, and brought her Each time a person they came out of there You had to know that in Muscle Shoals. The spirit of permeates not only but I think the people The place has a soul. W.C. Handy was from and everyone that knows is familiar Well, he's one of the great Before it was that didn't have He kind of legitimized All the bands were playing but no one had Well, he was the first one That made him and made this area famous. Sam Phillips was also from And Sam was kind of my tutor as being the guy Sam Phillips I mean, didn't he invent My dad, Sam Phillips, Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, but a lot of people that he only worked specifically in the very beginning. Well, the basic feeling of course originated on a farm in Alabama. I felt a certain spirituality And hearin' it that made one hell Mr. Phillips heard people and heard trains and the river down here in the shoals. It's a subconscious rhythm There's like a groove, that sticks in your gut. It's connected all of us. Helen Keller was and it was just the things she was able being blind and deaf. Helen Keller was deaf, completely blind. And her only way of is with gestures. You can still go to her house where she learned which was &quot;water.&quot; There's obviously to water here. So you can see why that Helen Keller There's such a power and you feel it whether or not. I'm a great believer is always very important and somehow music Something told me Yeah When I saw you People ask me always, &quot;What You had a lot playing with a lot and we all got but it blends There was this coming together And there was some hillbilly there's some black music. We were open minded Ooh I would rather I would rather Than to see you Hoo The Muscle Shoals sound, has a very heavy bass and drum And it's just--that was &quot;Turn up the bass, This was, at the time, The fact that a drum kit meant that they could That's what created that blacker that allowed you but knowing that deep down there was some fierceness. Ooh I was just I was just Ooh Of your kiss Woo, come on, there. Woo! Woo! When I was my mother was out in the yard And the pot had My brother, was playing in the backyard and they were My brother and fell into the pot So my mother took him and went screaming hunting my father. He came running in Red Bay, Alabama. And they took and all of his skin inside of his clothes. He died three days later. That was the start between my father's He kind of blamed her and she probably blamed him She left us &quot;I'll never live and, &quot;Forget about me.&quot; She moved in with Aunt Ess So my father asked people And they said, do you know what And he said, &quot;Yes, I do.&quot; And they said, &quot;Dolly It was earth shattering Even after all these years and not spending much time not a day goes by that I don't More acoustic guitar. I ain't easy to love Scars have made me But I feel Okay, all right, There's too much happening. I just need the intro and a little bit If everybody comes in where are you gonna If you get a chance or two produce a record and and you don't have a hit, So I was always aware of that. I always felt my life depended on it. Time is like, &quot;time.&quot; It's like you're All right, you know, I know we can, honey, All right. Rick is so meticulous. Oh, it's just a joy and pain 'Cause he won't stop If it takes three days Rick's gonna get We're doing just what we just We're doing the same thing and I just want to perfect it We've changed a couple Rick was He would take till he was satisfied. And sometimes what he was but he would keep I'm talking about-- Oh, okay, I thought you were-- Well, I did want it bright when you hear it with the track You gotta listen That was very frustrating because you think, Nobody ever worked without getting If they did, they're out pushin' a wheelbarrow He was kind of like and I don't fault him because he is That's what made him Oh, please forgive me, I ain't easy to love Duane Allman, of course, and wanted a gig. So he put up his pup tent at the studio I gave him his shot. When Duane he was probably with long hair but what really that he was I had never heard played like Duane Allman Duane had been had a group with his brother Gregg. They signed us and they wouldn't I think the first year we played like So he finally said, &quot;Hey, I'm leavin'.&quot; And he wound up But right before I talked him into going 'cause we weren't Finally went out there &quot;Listen, we go from We gotta cross I said, &quot;The horse is shod.&quot; &quot;It's got shoes on, And if he slips, so don't give him And guess what happened? And he hit right here. He couldn't play. And he wouldn't let me in And, I mean, that was-- 'cause, I mean, you know, he was somewhat even though he was only So it came his birthday, and I went out and bought and a bottle He had this cold he was pissed off and I did what I could do. I put it down I had it wrapped up And I knocked on the door I guess about two my phone rings He says, &quot;Get over here, And baybrah, he called me that, endearing handle He said, &quot;Man, check this out.&quot; He had been listening play Taj Mahal He said, &quot;Man, I dumped out and I washed the label He said, And he's got his hand and he's going, and he's just already I've still got that bottle, When Duane he was on the Wilson Pickett There was always a slight all of us white boys that we would But there was nothin' with a long-haired hippie They couldn't And so both of them So, they went and my brother went up &quot;Man, why don't you you know, And at that point I was an original career My songs. Pickett and I, &quot;Look, are you crazy? We're gonna cover And of course Duane said, While we were gone, Just remember When you get it goes into just Ow Ah Ahhh Oh oh ooh Hey Jude Ahh Duane Allman was playing that somethin' happened Ahh hey And all of a sudden, Gonna be all right That was the beginnings Jaimoe met my brother first. The two of them got together. When I met Duane, down on the river And it was like--well, In his spare time, Muscle Shoals the place for him He would do sessions. And I would sit over And when he would he'd roll his amplifier and the two of us And then when boy, the three of us had never But that was pretty much the The Allman Brothers Band. Duane said, &quot;Well, Rick, that's coming in, The kids are really And I said, &quot;Yeah, yeah, back off.&quot; I never believed him &quot;I don't understand this.&quot; They're sleeping under quilts and I wake up Duane &quot;Man, you know, are not quite I'm not into all that. He said, Turn on the machines and eventually you're gonna I said, &quot;Ah, I can't do that, So I missed the boat Time, old time. Things change it, you know. I never will forget played behind me He was playing the band And I told King, that guitar player He said, &quot;Percy Sledge, is gonna be so big he said, and you won't be able When Jimi came out well, our style of music Time always changes and things that Things happened in our world We decided and become studio owners. So we had who was our mentor and friend We elected Roger I had gone to LA to try to make We made a great deal and I came back and had a We were supposed to come up and be exclusive to Rick. Rick's office and we're just kind of &quot;Oh, my God, Up the stairs we go, Everybody's quiet. I began to tell them we've made with Capitol. I'm lookin' at them like, And they're just like... One of the guys &quot;We've already made a deal and he is going to build us We'll be leaving here, And when Roger dropped that bomb we were expecting I felt like the whole bottom It's like we have thrown Do you remember He said, &quot;You're never It was war. Total war. Oh ooh oh, baby There's gonna be judgment When we bought the studio, about whether or not And you have to have to hits Jerry came to record at our and that was Nothin' happened, Six months went by, almost eight months. I think we would have killed We always wanted to own &quot;What the hell And then all of a sudden started wantin' to come When we went to record it was a really You know, we just and, you know, played our stuff The sound was in my head And then, of course, when that actually you know, then you're in You got to move You got to move You got to move, child You got to move Oh, when the Lord You got to move The first thing we did &quot;You've Gotta Move.&quot; We're down in Alabama, we've gotta cut If ever I'm gonna do it, and we're a little Indian maiden, Get ready You got to move We don't come from here, about the deep south. From here. Their producer And it wound up And I was thinkin', &quot;Oh, man, Because right when they Yeah, but that's there, it No, I know, I know. But I must point that nobody was drinkin' Well... You got to move I think we were drinking I'm sure there were and smoking marijuana Well, you know, you put it on a scale That was recording that was part of it. But otherwise it was a lot And once we knew and we were tuned to the room, &quot;Right, let's get as much you know? Keith had this tune but I don't think He had the chorus, So that was all written It was just an idea and it had to go to the just to sort of And then say, back in, and then take, Childhood living Is easy to do The things you wanted Muscle Shoals Studio is in this Being there does inspire you &quot;Wild Horses&quot; is a sort and I remember he played A sin and a lie I have my freedom But I don't Wild horses Couldn't drag me away Wild, wild horses We'll ride them someday I thought it was and rockingest sessions I don't think we'd been I mean, we cut three and that, for the Stones, We left on a high We knew we had one of the best The thing about &quot;Brown Sugar,&quot; it was quite distorted. It was pretty funky, That was the whole I always wanted to go then [bleep] happened, in a basement doing but otherwise, &quot;Exile&quot; in Muscle Shoals, but politically, I wasn't allowed So, there's that, Brown sugar How come you Brown sugar Just like Those sessions as any I ever done. I mean, all this &quot;Beggars Banquet&quot; &quot;Gimme Shelter,&quot; &quot;Jumpin' Jack Flash,&quot; but I've that if we'd have cut if they might not have Drums beatin', Lady of the house wonderin' House boy knows that You shoulda heard him So, I got this great new but I've had this and he's taking and going across town out of business, I imagine Hey, I got this deal, and I don't have But if Jerry thinks left in the world that you then he's mistaken that I could cut hit records We began to call and put them So, that's why he calls me, and he said, I said, &quot;I know So, I started playing, &quot;Do you know of any I said, &quot;Yeah, who became one of the best for Muscle Shoals. He said, &quot;And I also and I said, &quot;Yeah, that I met Rick Hall wanted and called it and I ended up For me to surround myself with made me Now, here's what we're going play back the tape in succession, I want This is a sad song, you know, so don't and take away so it sounds The truth is and Jimmy Johnson, left and bought we come in here with this who was not a real but 1971, Rick Hall's He didn't have that I started over again, and I believed I was Here's Candi Staton to sing her big, At FAME, we experienced starting with We started to explode. The world was coming You may think To love a man But I know from Sometime, it pays I did Bobbie Gentry I did King Curtis, Little Richard, Mac Davis, I'd rather be Than to be And we cut all those records the Osmond Brothers, I think they sold something of 23 million records Joe Simon, Paul Anka, Clarence Carter, I had one of the biggest in the world I was getting twice that I was getting So I was [bleep] I'd rather be Than to be Don't want We were forming in about '69 or '70, and our friend, found this band in Jacksonville I was a sucker to want so we signed them. When I first joined Ronnie had always talked Apparently they had an entire album They had no money, and I remember they and they'd check where they'd get in fights 'cause their long hair, all they had to eat the whole time, but I loved I didn't know but I'll tell if you listen some of the best I've ever heard, especially one. At the time we were we took a little we walk in, the engineer Billy Powell, he was sitting there that was so unbelievable that we walked in with our mouth open. And I look at Ronnie and I say, &quot;I gotta go I don't know And he said, We put him on the record, a band member He was and nobody knew it, I think he thought you know, but what a great thing But there was something I mean, on this album, and I'm gonna go and try that's never had a single I mean, If I leave Would you still But there started to be and they said, to 3:45 I said, &quot;Nope, And I knew I'd destroy the integrity I said, &quot;Go listen and then you'll know If I stay here Things just couldn't Not one A&amp;R department so it wound up, And here, I had I cut the first &quot;Free Bird,&quot; I mean, all this And I wasted almost and it's very and I'm sure And this bird Oh But the Skynyrd boys in their favor that guy, Alan Walden, he got 'em World tour When they came off they were Lord, I can't change Won't you fly high Free bird, yeah And then And Gary and Allen got they come to me and say, of your 17 to be and it was called, My father raised me, he got us I spent hours in the woods with him He preached &quot;You got to be the best and good is not you've got to be not just the best He had worked hard, with him all and so I wanted to make life so I bought him a new He'd always We never could During this time, my dad was plying about a quarter of a mile My stepmother went out and she saw the tractor wheels and she knew something He was pinned He had tried to get away trying to free himself. Of course, I went into I mean, it's just I was playing and Rick Hall he had a song he wanted me I was born and raised On a farm way back I was so ragged that folks Papa used to tease Of course, deep down 'Cause he'd done When Rick played I said, &quot;We're going He didn't like because he thought for his people, My papa was &quot;My papa was I can see him with Education but he did wonders The little money And it was my story Oh, life had kicked him When he tried to get up, One day Papa called Put his hands on my shoulders He said, Patches, To pull My son, it's all All the things of how he killed himself and had lived thinking, but maybe my son, Sometimes I felt I wanted to leave, But I would remember With tears in his eyes So, I was so taken that I wanted to do a special and I wanted to go to L.A. ...To do the rest I was a believer in Rick Hall and if he said okay, let's sing Patches, I'm depending To pull When it came out, it was going up That was Patches, I'm depending I tried It's up to you The artists they come to get They can rest, stay away from hustle and bustle, regarding autographs Nobody knows them here, People like that had a kind of magical but they also liked or out of L.A. to do these sessions. I mean, that was really that attracted music people Sure, people go You know, big deal. You know, you can actually get and really experience I mean, there's When I went for me, it was more in Somerton I did actually Sitting here But I know Jimmy had a very definite and this was so nobody was really hip Here I am, with a different and they were readily When an artist what our job is to become They were able depending on the artist That was the true I can't say what But I know I can't say where But I know Tried my hand But all that This little boy The song, was such a fresh that you couldn't Sitting in limbo And so, definitely all white guys, in bringing reggae Sitting in limbo, It was after that Chris Blackwell to link them up When we were going I started hearing and of course, I didn't of Muscle Shoals or their background when I was first I just knew that the music had so when we actually it was an amazing Sometimes I feel Recording with Traffic It was--to me, Of course, Traffic weren't We would try of rock, jazz, all sorts of different Our own particular name for it But don't let They didn't go about recording At that time, I was Traffic was It sounds terrible, It might not ever sound It wasn't an immediate, But as time went on, I guess you might say, I was forced to learn The song that stands out is &quot;(Sometimes I Feel So) What Muscle Shoals was truly spectacular, these rhythmic elements that we could And then, &quot;Well, we'd like to go on the road And so, we'd go out at these big venues We were just thrilled but of course, been on the road There were times would get together say, &quot;Are we corrupting and that their music of some sort We suffered a certain Musicians are pretty noted moving around and playing but we really liked When I first started in music, and Los Angeles and travel, and the more I've done that, that this is It is my home We had many opportunities We thought, Why would we have when they'll Sometimes even now When I'm feeling I drift back in time Down on Mainstreet I'm gonna tell you, was just magnificent, He was the kind of guy Down on Mainstreet And &quot;Mainstreet&quot; is one Seger really put Most of the people in Detroit thought they were talking of their town. We had a ten-year that we were at least each time he put The studio just started Stars fell and everybody came to record When I think back I learned It's a wonder When we really got we were doing like, It was one of the best rooms The sound was like It was the sound that everywhere else, and that's why where everybody I got a Nikon camera I love to take So Mama, don't take We were very fortunate with a lot Bob Dylan, Paul Simon, Rod Stewart, I mean, I just Johnnie Taylor. Glenn Frey. Leon Russell. Willie Nelson. Levon Helm. Donnie Fritts. Carlos Santana. John Prine. Millie Jackson. R.B. Greaves. JJ Cale. Dire Straits. Simon and Garfunkel. Mama, don't take Mama, don't take Mama, don't take Still amazes me today was played a lot of the music You look back, we're as amazed My whole life a lot of rejection, and to be honest with you, played a big role I thrived on it. I wanted to prove the world I was rejected I was rejected because I was As I grew older, by Atlantic Records I don't think I've than I was and the Swampers who It was bitter. But that all Those things change. My respect for Rick Hall He was our mentor. He gave all of us that we would have We all got our start Rick is really of the music business These are guys that I love and we'd worked who wanted, to become special Because they played on so many they will take in the history That's the great thing From there on, because it's in Everything that it came from and that's what makes What music built there that you can see In fact, if you look they were but what they contained that crossed race It was revolutionary. I'm honored to step who I wish You know, there's still there's still a piece there's a piece who walked There's a perfect Everybody needs to know that went into making and all the stars and exploding I'm just so proud and to see everything out of this incredible I am honored. Well, I'm pressing on Yeah, I'm pressing on And I'm pressing on To the higher calling Can't you see I'm pressing on I'm pressing on To the higher calling Shake the dust Don't look back Nothing gonna There's nothing Temptation's Adam gave And because he sinned, It runs in my veins But I gotta On and on I gotta keep I'm gonna keep To the higher, Yeah I gotta go higher On and on I gotta go higher I'm gonna go higher To the higher To the higher calling I know somebody, Somebody knows what Who knows I want I know you want to keep To the highest calling Turn it up. Ronnie had always talked about then when we wrote the last verse says, &quot;Muscle Shoals has I went, &quot;Ronnie, He goes, &quot;Oh, that's-- and the guys Now Muscle Shoals And they've been known We were given that name who was the producer I think he just thought 'cause Muscle Shoals You gotta Swampers is Sweet home Alabama Lord, I'm coming There's two guitar solos one short one and they both came absolutely note for note, the fingering, I woke up out of the dream, and it was done. Here I come Alabama Home Alabama home Alabama home Alabama home Alabama Big wheels Carry me home Singing songs I miss Alabamy And I think Well, I heard Mr. Young Well, I heard ole Neil Well, I hope Neil Young A Southern man don't Sweet home Alabama Where the skies Sweet home Alabama Lord, I'm coming In Birmingham, Boo, boo, boo Now we all did Now Watergate Does your conscience Tell the truth Sweet home Alabama Where the skies Sweet home Alabama Lord, I'm coming Here I come Alabama Home Alabama home Alabama home Alabama home Alabama Now, Muscle Shoals And they've been known Lord, they get They pick me up Now how about you Sweet home Alabama Where the skies Sweet home Alabama Lord, I'm coming Sweet home Alabama Oh, sweet home Where the skies And the governor's true Sweet home Alabama Lord, I'm coming Sweet home Alabama Oh, sweet home Where the skies And the governor's true When you hear five or six of 'em and you hear that's the human element. If a guy falls who's playing the drums, as long as he don't He can get back up and most people, think that's great. That's the human element, So, the imperfections which I believe is what and that's how you make Amen. That's my sermon