- Oh, the claw! Oh, you want a strawberry? (upbeat music) There are a few things as a beautifully ripe it truly can be nature's candy. - You can always use your knife and your cutting board to prep that fruit, but there's a whole world that really helps you get the most out of your fresh seasonal produce. - Some of these tools are really great and actually save you time and some are not worth buying at all. And we have tested all kinds of things, tomato corers, pineapple Today, we're gonna show you and which ones are not. - First up, Hannah. (upbeat music) - First up, tomato corers. And before you start about tomato's status as a Technically, it's both Botanically speaking, a fruit that contains seeds. Botanists may think of tomatoes as fruit, but most chefs and nutritionists think of them as a vegetable. So, long story short, it's Today, we're covering fruit prep tools, so today tomatoes are a fruit. First up tomato corers, they and tasteless core of a tomato. I have our winner right I don't know, I was like, I could not believe how much faster these made it to go through With a regular pairing knife, you have to make several cuts with this, these super sharp teeth, dig right in and pluck it out, it truly makes it a faster process. If you're canning tomatoes, you're making a big tomato salad, this truly will save you time. So, let me show you how to Simply take a tomato like this and scoop it in like that, go around. Not all of them were this easy though. Our winner had super sharp teeth. Some of the other ones were really dull and they just mangled the tomatoes, that's not what you want, you want a nice, beautiful, nice clean tomato left behind. Handles also really matter, this is something you're and you're using, you Some of them dug into our palms, they were too skinny, This simple rounded handle was all it took to make it comfortable enough. This is a very light deft tool, you don't need some like We tested a bunch of these, we also tested our which we love for strawberries, they say you can use it for tomatoes, too. We think it's great for strawberries, but it's not so good for tomatoes. The &quot;Norpro&quot; really won and sharp design that made and really cut down on Next up, pineapple corers, is one of the most If you've ever wrestled with one of these, you know they can be spiky to cleanly remove all of the eyes without sacrificing a lot of enter pineapple corers. This handy little device here, this is our winner from &quot;Oxo&quot;, will do all of the hard part for you. We loved this for a lot of reasons, it was easy to use, it made You're gonna lose a little bit of flesh trying to get the skin off, but this one allowed us to keep the most possible amount of fruit. Some of the other ones they didn't cut cleanly, they drove crookedly down the fruit, they were really hard to turn. The &quot;Oxo&quot; made this process so let me show you how it works. You still need your knife to just to top off the top. You don't chop off the bottom here, that will actually make You center this on the core, see it's got those little teeth there, that's what's gonna grip into this, it's sort of like a wine opener. Okay, so I'm gonna center this. Put it right in there. Hmm, smells so good. A lot of the other models we tested, wasted a bunch of fruit, or which was super annoying, that's why you buy one of these things, you don't have to deal with that. Still others, put our not safe, not down for that. And now, you just pull (Hannah laughing) It cuts it in little that comes off. Ooh. Look at that beautiful slice. I love pineapple, so I Mm. Also love this cup it leaves behind. I mean, can you imagine you could drink out of this thing? There's actually a bunch I gotta try this. Hmm. Oh, that's so good, I feel So, this pineapple corer from &quot;Oxo&quot; truly is one of our all (air whooshing) Next up, strawberry hullers. You may not think strawberries you know, much easier than but I wanna show you why the can be improved upon. With a pairing knife you have two options. One is to chop off the Right? Super easy, super fast, no problem, but there is a little problem, there's a lot of food Not ideal! The other way you can do it, is if you have some you can hold the strawberry This takes a lot of skill You're also pointing which is not safe for children, certainly and lots of adults will So, enter the strawberry huller. So, this is our winner, Let me show you how it works. So, you open it up, put Look at that, that was so fast, so clean, so it really gets that just the most flavorful Kids can use this, this is safe, Lisa actually had some eight-year-olds test in the test kitchen and use this and they had a grand old time and they were very able to do it, so this is super fun, a little So, if you are doing a lot this can actually make We didn't test other products, This is what we call a unicorn product. It's a one off and it truly we really, really love this thing. Lisa has totally converted Tick, tick, tick. Now on to Lisa, for some of (upbeat music) - One of the nicest tools is this collapsible mini It's perfect for cleaning berries, grapes, cherry tomatoes, you know, and that you just really So, this has a lot of great features, we tested a bunch of It collapses down to about one inch high, it holds a full pint, and all the holes are here on the bottom. It has a little cover that covers them up, so that it won't drip. So, for something like you know, they're and they have that wonderful so you don't wanna just mush 'em all up, when you go to wash them. I have the bottom on and and let the water just and get them really nice and clean. And then, you pull off the And this bottom is also good, because if you're just gonna reading a book or put this on and you can serve it, it's not gonna drip all If you want to take them for a snack, take 'em to work or pack 'em put 'em right in, that oval shape works like a natural funnel, and they're prepped and And then, after you've washed or it goes in the dishwasher, pop down and it's easy to store. So, let's do some blueberries. You know, using a full size colander, like you'd use for your for this many blueberries, We tested a bunch of these, and that's a good size, into that full-size colander territory, smaller and you're getting We also love that this one collapses, because it's easy to store. But if you get a collapsible one, we saw some that were very flimsy and they didn't have this at the top and the bottom, This is not gonna collapse 'till you're ready to collapse it. I use this thing at home and I just have it right next to my sink, I use it so much, I don't The collapsible mini it's our favorite. (air whooshing) In the past several years avocados have become Americans now eat more than And along with that growth, of specialty tools for avocados, that are supposed to be faster and neater and safer than using a knife. So, are any of these This is the one that we rated the highest. This is by &quot;Oxo&quot; and it has a it has a little blade for cutting it, it has this little tool for getting the pit out, and then this is supposed So, the challenges of avocados are that they have this very but the inside, if it's and you really don't So, let's see, we're gonna down to the pit in the middle, which I can feel as I go It's a little raggedy, it's not perfect. Then, here's the tricky part, the pit. The pit wants to stick to the avocado, but you wanna get it out. This helps you from doing with a knife that you don't wanna do. The three prongs on here are but they should stick into the pit. So, put it in, twist it, there it is and then you can poke it out on this side. So now, this part on the other side is supposed to help you get in there and dig down and slice it up. Okay, that is not awesome. (Lisa laughing) It's, if you're making guac it's okay, but if you're kind of like I would not call these beautiful and they're stuck. There we go. Now, every avocado you're you might get one, that's a little firmer and then that cut pretty well. This one was really beautiful and creamy and it's kind of a mess. This is another tool that we did like, not tremendously, by &quot;Trudeau&quot; and it's kind of got the same principle, it's got a sharp serrated It's got a little pick on and then the scoop-shaped part for getting the whole thing out. The advantage of that would be that, you know, you're not slicing it. You can, you can take out the whole half without disrupting the avocado, if you can slice it yourself, that's the thing that It also didn't cut that evenly, it's a little bit ragged down here. I've got a slippery grip on this side, because it's been in the avocado and on this side, these it's too much like the knife tip. It's kind of like a We think a chef's knife are the best way to do the job. And with a few tips, you can do it safely and you can do it neatly however you really need it. By the way, an avocado is like a tomato, it's a fruit masquerading as a vegetable and we're gonna cut it up. So, you get your chef and then just travel around You can use it as a guide and it will go right around So then, just twist and look you can see that it's much neater than the ones I did Now, here's the other part, don't poke with your knife point, because if anything lets go, We just use the knife like a little ax and that pulls it right out and then you don't have your hand anywhere near the problem area. So, aside from your chef This is a good size, it's of the fat end of the avocado. And you're just gonna hold and slip it between the skin and the flesh and just rotate it around and scoop. So pretty, so easy, not dangerous and no extra expense, just like a serving spoon is great. And then if you wanna slice you just do what you want and you've got these beautiful slices that are perfect for sandwiches or salads, or anything you wanna do. Skip the avocado gadgets, and a good spoon and you're good to go. (air whooshing) Tools that help cooks, prepare apples for snacking or baking Especially when you go apple picking, you've just got so many We found two styles and There's the push style that's kind of shaped like a wagon wheel and then there's the crank there's a crank. We think both of them have and I'll show you why. This is so easy and so fast. This one cuts it into eight wedges, that are just right for snacking, put on a little plate with and that's it the core is gone. This one is by &quot;Norpro&quot; and it cuts the apple into 16 pieces. Isn't that pretty? And then this little tool has these little black and on the device you line those up and it cuts them all free. So, you saw that I had to poke the apples out of this one at the bottom, they get a little bit stuck, on this one they are all perfectly cut So, both of these are recommended, this is our overall favorite by &quot;Norpro&quot; and it cuts it into 16 These are small enough for baking, so if you peeled the apple first you can just throw these We use these on everything, even out of season apples, that Both of these wash up really quickly in the dishwasher, they're comfortable, they have handles that are elevated. As you push down, you're not slamming your like some of the ones that we they also have this really nice The center part that cuts out the core is where it really engages and it protrudes a little bit and that just anchors breaks the tension of the skin and makes it so much easier to push down. So, both of these were the only ones that had that little feature so they really cut beautifully and neatly, you don't have raggedy slices. Some of them were a or trapped pieces of fruit in them and they're just harder to clean. The other one that I wanna This one was our favorite it is really terrific, because it can peel, It has suction base and that is this little It has a big suction cup and the crank just provides You do need to have a the stainless steel, or that has no pores in it. So, a marble, or granite, or anything that has little pores in it, it doesn't grip that well and in those cases, you can put it right in a baking sheet and clamp it to that. It also helps contain any and you just place it where you want it and then flip this lever and that makes it really stick, it won't jump around. We tested some other ones, including one by this same brand that has a clamp on the into the edge of the counter, or table, it never really stayed as stable and keeping this really This is also made of sturdy Let me show you how it works. There's a lever here and it'll lets you pull this piece back, prongs are here. You're just gonna stick the either side is fine and it goes right on and that's gonna hold it You want a firm piece of fruit and if you have a really mushy apple it'll, when you go to turn the crank, it'll just rotate inside the Over here, is a little blade in an arm. And you can adjust that to be You can also disable it like this and it will just core the and it will slice it. If you just wanna peel it and not core it, you can take this piece off and this will not core it I also use this to peel potatoes and spiral cut them for French fries. There it goes. And then you just pull it off and you have a little apple slinky, it's kinda like the pineapple tool. We're turning fruit into slinkies today, that's what we're doing. When you're gonna put this in a pie, I trim it if anything doesn't get in and you just cut it right down the middle and you've got a million And then this pops right off and then you reverse it and And here's another fun part, you can like jump rope with the peel. (Lisa laughing) It's huge. So, now you've seen our we have the crank style If you can only get one of these, I would go for this one by &quot;Norpro&quot;, it's our favorite overall, If you peel it first, It's got that nice tray at the bottom that helps cut through the bottom slices of each piece of apple and it washes up very If you do tons and tons of apple picking you really want this crank style, you can process so many apples so fast, you saw it took about to go from a whole apple And like all the fruit preparation tools we showed you today, energy and you're not gonna waste food. For more information on all check out the links below, or see americastestkitchen.com - And what's your favorite Do you think tomatoes and avocados should be called fruits or vegetables? Let us know in the comments, make sure to like this video and hit that &quot;Subscribe&quot; button, so you never miss an episode. (upbeat music)