I bought some of the most insane We have a $10,000 nuclear bunker, a $1,000 beehive base, and even a $500 base But first, You're like just a tree. Oh, wait. What? And when you go in it. Wait. How do they fit this For $1, this is incredible. Yeah. I don't know how this is $1. What, are you guys going I'm giving it an eight. I'm giving this an eight as well. Which leaves us with a 24 out of 30. But will this $1 tree base And whichever build we rate highest we're Spheres aren't normal in Minecraft. This is not supposed to happen. Pro's buying Minecraft base Let me know if you see something It's also a mobile base. - See you guys later. How is it doing that? How is that possible? Is this not the coolest base ever? It's destroying the world. I'm digging a tunnel. There's nothing legal Somebody arrest this man. He's got spit out - Literally, it's all gone. Wait. Where are you going? Bro is flying off into the sunset. How come you get to be in this thing Oh, you're right, dude, No no no no no no. I'm going to stand here. I mean, I like this base a lot. I can understand I don't like this one as much because I never got to go inside I'm giving it the five. Whoa, a five. Honestly, that was still really cool I'll give it, like, a seven. I'm going to be honest. It's 500 times And the last one So I'm going to give this one a six, leaving the $1 tree base But will it beat out this - Guys, do you see this beehive? And then you're like, Check this out. How are we looking, bro? Oh, you look like little bees Wait, why is there TNT in here? Well, guys, check this out. No way. It's a dimension inside a dimension. Wait, look And you're like, Guys, check this out. It just keeps on getting better. Well, I'm actually tripping out My brain hurts right now. As long as there's not another. Dude, don't worry. There probably won't be. - Come on in. The agent city? This was only a thousand dollars? Is this not the coolest base of all time? I can literally see moving in front of me, Wait there, wait there. Nolan, can you see us? No, I literally cannot see you. Okay, wait, let me go one size bigger. Can you see me? Oh, I can see you're really small. Gigantic Nolan is looking at tiny me, looking at even tinier Purp. - I'm so small. The points that this base is about This one, to me, Keep in mind, it's a thousand times I'm going to give the illegal This entire base, all that was I'm also gonna have to give this I think that this is the coolest But do I think it's a thousand times No. And for that reason, - Seven? But that still leaves it in the lead Up next, we have this What's steampunky about it? I feel like It's very underwhelming. I like it, but I don't understand I also don't know why Oh, that's a great question, No way. We have liftoff. Dude, it's a whole airship village. What do you guys think about this This is so cool. It left a ship shape hole. I literally see it, If there's a base that's illegal, I mean, there's nothing more illegal let alone flying with an entire village. Purp, you took the stick. - This is so cool. Dude, there's literally clouds below us This is the coolest thing I've seen The fact that you can just turn it You know what's my favorite part What? You can kick people out. Whatever Not my favorite part. Sure, but are they Imagine if you, like, But your base flies away from you. That's so true. Oh, God. And there's literally cannons Will this one score soar Oh, I see what you did there. - Purp. Get off the steering wheel. Oh my gosh, dude, from up here, I'm getting the air sick. Remind me to never let Purp I've got to give this a nine. I have to give this a nine as well. This is a tough decision. This one I like but do I like it five times more? Is there anything that's more illegal than what you're staring at I'll also give it a nine. What? That leaves the Steampunk fortress, currently in the lead And with only one base left, of the $1,000 tip. But will it beat out the $10,000 - Why do I have an ID card? I don't like how you're always so Watch what this door does. It opens. Check it out, guys. Why are there buff villagers? There's security. I've never felt so safe. Let's keep it moving. But I am tired of all these doors. I mean, how many is overkill? This is just unreal. How many doors are there If you want to be able you have to be prepared - Wait. Okay. This is sick. Dude, Boys, welcome to the $10,000 Why do all these guys They work at this It's to protect us. Oh, there's, like, Oh, this one's got a big hook. There's, like, a storage facility. By the way, If there was a, nuclear blast It's probably not going to happen while we're in here, though, guys, Oh, okay. I'm in, like, like a greenhouse. I think I found, like, Wait, that's actually kind of crazy. Oh, they're like testing In a bunker. That feels like a setup I mean, as long as there's no Guys, I mean, I have an Why? I see the door up there. Come on. All right, let's go through here We need a special ID card for that. Oh, no, wait, I don't. You see that shiny red button Do you see what's beyond the shiny Wait, is that a nuclear missile? Oh, you want to find out? - Oh, no. What on earth. Purp, what did you do, man? Oh, no. Guys, the world got destroyed. The world is absolutely decimated. There's no life left. Wait, but did the bunker survive? They did. Well, now that we just survived Do you guys think that this was illegal enough I mean, this bunker is insane. Like, I'm thinking about giving an eight, but I'm going to give it a 10 one point for each of the buff I like this one, but I have a sweet spot so I'm giving this one an eight. Which leaves it to me. And do I think it's as the flying ship? I'm just not sure I'm an eight as well, Making the flying ship the victor. Honestly, I'm not mad That thing was awesome. Congratulations You've won the $1,000 tip. Don't forget to subscribe and we'll