Today we are going to make the ultimate And the best part is you probably already in this whole project. In fact, if YouTube analytics are anything to go probably watching this video on it That's right. Modern day Little emulation machines capable of They've got bright, high refresh rate, and powerful enough GPU and CPUs game consoles like the PlayStation two Just plug a game controller like this here into your phone Video over and I will see you guys Yes you could legitimately do that, of ten experience. Your battery life would be kind of crappy. The whole thing And once your CPU starts you're going to notice And I did promise you guys the ultimate So today we're going to put our DIY skills something that's a little bit closer In fact, I actually went out specifically for this project with it, it's not going to function Now, that might seem like an annoying but I actually got this Samsung SW 21 fee, and has some pretty top end specs So it didn't exactly break the bank. And I will tell you exactly how I did it But first, It all starts with a super evil scan. People will sell you a phone as stolen to their carriers The carrier will so that it can connect which effectively renders It's super cheap, to give these crippled phones just search blacklisted and you are bound to find Okay, so now that let's take a look at some of these internal components for this project. That's obviously our battery. And you have the camera modules over here. We'll daughter board down here And then this guy right here, or in other words, the GPU's CPU Now what I would like to do and add it right in there, And then I'd also like to create that's going to take some of the heat away But here's the thing. I don't actually know that So what I'm going to do is use Mr. Thermal camera here on my other phone and we're going to boot this one up Now, one interesting little quirk, that they can't really read So I'm actually just going to put on the backside of the heat spreader Okay. Yeah, I'm going to go ahead or the SASE is directly below that point, because that is by far So we are going to concentrate all of our cooling with that mystery solved, to designing the most important part The sled is a mid-frame sink and the bigger battery to integrate In theory, it should make the whole setup So I spent the rest of the day and trying to come up It took more than a few taps. All righty. Now that we are done designing the sled actually, you know what? Why don't I show you Yeah, that many. We are now ready to move on which is going to be designing But first, a word about iterating each a small step towards my idea of perfection And this is my favorite way rather than trying to get it all perfect you can just kind of sneak up And in point of fact, I want to do, but we're going to save that Over here on this table, You might remember these some copper shims here What we're going to do is combine that I've never done Put simply, or more pieces of metal But before I could do that, I had to, And the nice thing about copper so you can easily cut it with a jigsaw. Just make sure you have some fine tooth I've linked the ones that I used as well as all the other tools shown Finally, I applied a layer of flux the end to heat in position the metal was sufficiently hot, to melt on contact and be brought I'm sorry, I don't know what happened From there it was just a matter of adding millimeter thick pieces, I was able to easily dial in the perfect Maybe one day I'll be able to machine something like this But for now, this backyard solution Once I had the rough shape I wanted, any excess solder around over my edges and just kind of And then I finished it off Remove Who would you look at that? That is our new custom Heatsink. So again, the idea is that it's and it's going to wick heat away from this And you know, honestly, even if it doesn't It's still a huge thermal mass like a big thermal mass that will absorb So now that this is done, frankly very nervous about doing, because I've never even seen anybody else But first, let me tell you Me. And the best part is because it's already over. Let's get back to the build. So you remember earlier how I said is that you would burn through Well, in order to fix that issue, a double battery or we're just going I bought to replace some batteries here a custom wiring harness give us a battery that is twice I just have no idea So this will be fun. First off, do not do this at home. Messing with batteries is dangerous and I do these things That is my workshop I started by removing the battery Sounds like a bad idea, This left two exposed terminals ready But keep in mind, before I started I made sure that both batteries If you skip this step, when you first connect them, with my insulating I then rounded the wires and to the battery management Now, I'm not sure why, but for some reason located auxiliary contact pads. So all I had to do was order And boom, giving me twice Then I almost blew up the whole phone. You see, So off came all these connectors isopropyl alcohol to dissolve the glue But I still had to pry it out. And if you look closely here, I actually punctured the battery Normally, this would cause a runaway But lucky for me, I had the good sense to completely drain So all I got was a little sizzling sound. Definitely a close call, though. With the old battery out, I slid the new one in position, and then held my breath as I attempted Ready the whole It works. It actually works. Oh, that's such a relief. Now that we are done, our double battery we can move on to the last step kind of set aside earlier. We are going to do the last iteration And of course, we're going to make it a Walmart 3D Well, the boring truth is that but thanks to a new software the workflow for the two Useful 3D gives me the ability to import SDL files Practically, this means that I was able for my 3D printer The only difference is now I'm carving through subtractive manufacturing Pretty neat, right? So while the CMC did its thing, making sure that the phone didn't using capped on tape. This special tape is heat resistant up to 200 degrees and creates So I just put it everywhere This should help to keep So now that that prep work is out assembly and I have to be careful it's only going to go together one way then I'll have to start over, First things first, heat sink here, and in order to do that, I just use a little Davis silicon, But first, to insulate the backside of the heat Then I glue that section to the top of the slide Clinton in place I then repeated the same process and let the glue set up, It's been about 30 minutes. There we go. Look at that. That is actually quite pretty. Before we move on I think we need to spend and then applying This is my favorite trick by keeping the sandpaper to my workbench. I was able to reference its flat surface And while I was at it, I also ran it over Then I applied a couple of quick This will seal the wood and help stable over time by preventing it So now we're ready to basically start And I'm sure one question many of you have are you going to get heat from the soggy Well, I'm glad you asked the question that I want to show you guys. It's this stuff right here. K5 Pro thermal Putty. You can kind of think of this stuff So I'm just going to take a very healthy and then we're going to kind of smoosh and it's going to eliminate any air gap transfer from that. So AC to the new heatsink that I made. See if it works churn, but you never know. These are the stuff on my laptop, on my. Actually, I used it on everything cloud. So to really hear this stuff, if you ever applying It literally just comes and you spread it on And it's better to err on the side as any excess Now, this stuff is good for filling gaps but anything above that into the mix All right, let's do a contact test So, of course, the phone's been on Oops. Push this in here on nice, tight fit. You can really see the paste So I am not worried about that That's great. Actually, you know what? The K5 Pro is actually heart type Oh, there we go. Look at that. Oh, okay. Now let's talk about how we are going And the answer is more silicone. Silicone is a seriously underrated For starters, it's So once I put the phone into the slide, it'll squish down, spread out and fill Second, silicone provides I would classify If for any reason I know that I can pull the phone with a little bit of elbow grease so it won't deform or lose adhesion My only regret here is that I used white but that's a pretty minor issue that we'll talk about at the end of this Right. It's about 30 minutes later. And now I'd like to do basically So my hope here is that this is going to take a lot of the kind of twisting feeling of this thing out of it I tried to make my so hopefully I won't need that much I know you guys have probably heard enough about it, that it's really good So if you have a porous material like wood to a smooth surface like plastic, All right. That's it, I promise. At this point, I left everything secure and then headed home So here we are back in the office, and running on this thing. It actually took me a little bit longer But that's all the past now, and I cannot wait to show you That actually kind of exceeded But before we get to that, I want to talk to you guys real quickly about this whole self Every time I do one of these there's always a ton of people a specific walkthrough of the software And trust me, I'm pretty sure that would So what I'm going to do that has all of the information this level of emulation up I'll even organize it by console the information you need This will be my first time and my hope is that I can use this So if you want to support the channel, check out the link in the video And without further ado, let's talk about because it's a lot. First of all, for all the emulation, I'm This helps to keep things organized. It's really handy if you're running The way I basically it's just a launcher. So you pick the game that you want to play emulator, configures all your settings, It also automatically downloads I love that feature. All right. So now let's talk And as it turns out, it's quite a lot is pretty damn powerful. To save time, let's just say that anything is going to run And it's also capable of emulating Gamecube, the PlayStation two, And because of the new and improved any drops in performance, And the cool thing is It never really gets hot to the touch because honestly, But it does get warm The SSD stays pretty So you were always And speaking of performance, battery With almost 9000 amp hours on tap your hand is going to cramp up And I think that brings me nicely There is a tradeoff to be made This thing is a chunking board It's almost 25% But honestly, I don't really mind. This thing feels well-built part of that is the fact that it just So yeah, I'd say that's a small tradeoff. Now let's talk about some of the suite because it's an Android phone. At the end of the day, you have access to And honestly, I was surprised I guess in a really looked into it before. But yeah, there's a bunch of rerelease classics For instance, I can use Steam Link triple-A games on my big computer Or if you're more of a couch style Microsoft $15 a month, have them See, I'm actually and it can also do Oh yeah. And then one last thing. I did manage to get a Nintendo Now the performance isn't quite there. Breath of the Wild struggles to hit 30 FP do run quite well. So overall very happy and very excited But now let's talk about what to make this thing Number one, and this is a big one. I shouldn't have used a damn Samsung phone I didn't know this but Samsung really locked down And that means that I can't root this thing, which means which is really egregious because given I know that there's a ton of headroom here for overclocking, and I'm That's really annoying. Number two, making the sled out of wood. Probably not the best choice. I'm sure there's a lot of people who are saying that But honestly, I don't think that's true. I just mean from a materials perspective, When you get it down And I 3D printed I could have moved to a higher level of precision That being said, I do really love So I don't know, And then finally, but I do think it's worth mentioning Kishi does not allow you to transfer data It's only for charging. While this is a little bit annoying, and I am now using my own file server to wirelessly transfer games So, you know, lemons into lemonade. And my next video I am going to fix and do what the engineers Make sure to check out my android emulation guide and I will see you