Binga, thank you so much - Pleasure. - Am I? Now if you had to look straight &quot;Hey, thanks so much for doing this.&quot; Thanks so much, It's been great. Mate, this is awesome. You know what? this is the best interview - Oh, really? 'Applause!' And it's great to be the 50th. - Thank you so much. - Cheers! - There we go. Breakfast! This is all for me, right? - This is.. So, let's just get one question - I'm nervous. Well, ask him. - He will say him. - You gotta say you. To me though, A lot more. - so I'd ticked that box. But Shoaib was like scary to face. And he was.. I mean, I've played a game in Melbourne at the Telstra Dome. - You know, with the big roof on top. And I'm walking out to bat and I'm panicking And he's bowling. I'm looking up I'm going, &quot;Oh, gosh.&quot; I'm taking helmet.. Right, and I look up and I heard &quot;Binga, Binga.&quot; I'm thinking &quot;Who's bloody calling my name?&quot; I look back, he's almost pushing off the side screen and he goes, &quot;I'm gonna kill you.&quot; I'm just, &quot;Shoaib, no. He runs in, and his black hair and he's just coming in I'm looking down, I look up, I'm tapping down, look up, I'm thinking, &quot;He won't bounce me.&quot; &quot;He won't.. He's my friend, And it's hit me straight - on the full. Right in front, I've gone, &quot;Yeah, give me out. I'm out.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Umpire, you've cost me. I've appealed. It's like, &quot;Oh, no.&quot; So then, But the thing about Shoaib Akhtar is that you want entertainers - Yeah. any young boy or girl they, you know, wanna see so you have to be an entertainer a bit like an actor out there And it was great seeing, Ricky go bang, hit a six - And that's that fun. So, I'm so proud You know, I never thought - that I would've got But I'm pumped, I'm so happy that I did. I knew at the age of 9. My parents asked me when I was 9. And I'm thinking back, And when he was 9, to know what you wanted to do. And they said, what do you wanna do I said, &quot;I'm gonna play &quot;And I wanna bowl 160.&quot; My parents, you know, Mum was a sprinter. - so we probably got the fast twitch fibres Although dad reckons - As they always do. Yeah. But 160. Like, for a 9-year-old of bowling 160. - Who was your.. So Jeff Thomson? Dennis Lillee. You know, think about it, Thommo took 200 Test wickets but to me it wasn't the wickets, - Yeah. Man, he was quick. And I thought, - And you did. Didn't you have an off-cutter - deceptive? I had a leg-cutter, but I had a ball that I used to bowl, So, normally, you hold it, and there's like - But I'd hold.. I'd squeeze it in, So then as the ball comes out, and the ball comes out a lot slower and it goes same like.. - batsmen would be like.. It's the same arm action, same pace but just lift those two fingers until I found out in the dugout with Kumar Sangakkara and he goes, &quot;I've got to admit He goes, &quot;You know, I said, &quot;Yeah, it never worked He goes, &quot;'Cause, the non-striker, &quot;you're watching the batsman, &quot;and as I push it in, &quot;which means See? You made your Test debut and went back to the suit store - that you used to work at, When I made - that toured here to India. Excuse me. We had to get measured up And it was done It was a horrible winter's day, pouring down rain had to be there at 8:30 to get measured up Went in there, met Richard Bowman so one lovely fellow, really nice his store looked beautiful, And then three weeks later, and he goes like, &quot;We'd like I said, &quot;Great. So we went through.. we're going through all the fashion but then it became and these are things and actually skilled me better to understand people You'd be 97, close to 100 but you'd be a long fitting. So you're at.. - That's nice. in a classic three button single breasted It is slimming.. - That's amazing. I'm gonna go get it measured - 'cause I don't know my exact measures. About a size of 11 foot - probably. I don't know. That's spooky, man. It's what I had to do. So it wasn't just working - you're learning about life. And he gave me, you know, and I thought - you should stick with him. - while playing.. ...Australia Under-19.. - Yep. Yep. And he always said So I'd leave work at 2:30 on a Tuesday 2:30 on a Thursday go to the nets at the SCG, train drive home, back home for two hours next day drive up work the whole day until 2:30 drive to training, train until 9:30, - Wow! for years and years and years. And I came in after we won and this big bloke walks in. &quot;How's it, bru?&quot; he said to me. So I looked at him, he goes &quot;Weren't you in Johannesburg two nights ago&quot; &quot;holding up the World Cup?&quot; He's like, I said, &quot;I'm back at work, mate, And I'm sizing him up. He's like a Sachin. So when he's walking over the yard boundary rope and I'm sizing him up &quot;gonna get this guy out?&quot; Or, &quot;How am I gonna get that sale?&quot; What I was doing subconsciously - Yeah. - ...was.. Yes, I'm learning about different things. because up until 17, I was thinking &quot;I've gotta play cricket, &quot;How do I get better? &quot;How do I become a better batsman? I'm like exhausted. So then I thought, - Yeah. - And I'm working, 2:30, bang, &quot;Cricket time, And go there, and you bowl, come Thursday, 2:30, &quot;Let's get out of the store.&quot; you're bowling in the nets, and that actually helped my cricket so much. That's so interesting actually because otherwise you can just hold on to stuff too hard, - 100%. about switching off from the game. And there are a lot of people - Yeah. Mike Hussey, who's the exception because he was just, like, - Yeah. Hussey, Lee, you know - I'll always be in the next room.. ...on tour. And every night, &quot;Huss, go to bed!&quot; He's tapping his bats in. I like to switch off, mate. So how many nicknames do you have? - I know there's Binga. - Do you know how that So there's a chain called Bing Lee. - So it's a Chinese company.. ...and they're huge. I mean, Their slogan on their logo, is, &quot;Everything's negotiable.&quot; That's what they say, right? - So I became Binga, right? And my brother went in one day, and said, &quot;How much &quot;Sir, that's not for sale.&quot; He says, &quot;Well, actually &quot;everything is negotiable.&quot; So he goes, &quot;I'll go speak to the boss.&quot; Of course, came back and said, &quot;Great, 'cause I didn't want it anyway.&quot; But that's it. So I've got Binga you sometimes get Ugg. - Why's Ugg? No! There's another name in Punjabi, I think that Binga means something else if you say it slightly different. Bhinga. Oh, Bhinga! - Cross-eyed. I also got the name Oswald. Oswald's a funny story. - Can I just set it up one second? John F. Kennedy, JFK - the assassination ...and the person who assassinated him was a man called Lee Harvey Oswald. Now, the story. So I'm batting at number nine Ian Harvey was batting at number eight and my brother was batting at number seven. So they looked up at the scoreboard and Steve Waugh said, So that's how I became Oswald, so.. And does he call it Or it's just Steve Waugh? just mucking around. thinking the &quot;Ice Man,&quot; nothing. - He is probably the funniest guy Yeah. He is hilarious. loves having a joke, loves India. So you had two predominant captains, right? - Long running. - Yeah. - ...for a fair bit, - Yeah. Yeah. Steve Waugh was brilliant I guess as an athlete. He said, &quot;Mate, you're in the team. &quot;of 3 overs, if you pick up a wicket, &quot;Run in, scare the tripe out of him&quot; &quot;try and get us one wicket&quot; &quot;and we don't care Ricky Ponting was a bit more &quot;You know, we need you to bowl &quot;But let's work on this plan.&quot; And that really helped me too, But the thing what makes a good leader you know, for me personally that you want to actually and don't let down. So even though I didn't wanna let Steve Waugh down, And they are two wonderful guys, but two different styles of captains. I'm enjoying this. - I'm glad you are. When you get put - Yeah. and I'll come out with what we call - Yeah. - So, for example, and you ask me as a reporter the umpire should've given an out, it cost us the game, India wins. What did you think If that was out, Look, we have to make sure that but, you know, the umpires are normal guys and sometimes they make a mistake. that we learn from that. Look, we tried our hardest I thought there might've been a nick there but the umpire said not out, - 'Applause!' Whereas, you wanna say &quot;The freaking umpire cost us..&quot; - Yeah. &quot;Hey, he should lose his job.&quot; - &quot;I'm gonna find him outside..&quot; &quot;India lost, and the umpire cost us.&quot; Now imagine if I said that, - Yeah, we just.. ...there's never any questions, And I get a nice breakfast too - which is pretty lovely. Back in the late '90s, - and stuff around, right? You were just.. Yeah, so.. And if you're a fast bowler, Pretty much. - Yeah. So, I had to eat and eat and eat and eat. I'll have about five or six meals a day. To bowl ten overs in a One Day match - Wow. - during the day. - that's insane. - Yeah. - You're putting - through that ankle, front.. - Which - That's correct. What do they say, - landing on your front foot? - Yeah. - My playing weight And I would be 16 times my body weight. Oh, so that's your little an.. - Which is why you had.. which is why I had six ankle operations. - Six ankle operations, huh? That, and the pressure as hard as I did, - But it comes at a cost. was actually decrease your pace. - And that.. - for you. When you think I'm not trying to be technical I'm trying to think what it's called. - Yeah. The shin bone that comes down, So then what happens is that chips off - Wow They have to go in, cut that bit of bone out, And you keep bang, bang, bang, chips off again, go in and cut it again. So then, they end up cutting And then they had to get to try to push my ankle down - Lord. and go, &quot;Yeah, we might and then they'd shave a bit more off and then they'd load me up again shave a bit more off the bone and then the last time But other than that I'm good. Now how do I come back from that? I've done all my rehab, I'm back playing but I know at the top of my mark that when I lay on that front foot I know, that you can get that knife and you go smack in the back of your ankle, first ball. And I know.. - thinking about it, ...that you go through, And somehow I'm 30 meters back running in, trying to let go of the ball knowing that that ankle's But you gotta trick your mind. You can do what you want with your brain. And I've always said that I reckon when you first start, and then when you get towards it becomes sort of flipped around 80% mental ability and 20% physical ability. The toughest player in world cricket in my opinion? - And you'll be blown away by this. The toughest, hands down - Simon Katich. Mate, Croatian background he get hit you could pin him he wouldn't wear an arm guard wouldn't wear a rib pad, Tough. Break his rib, doesn't care. - So, I mean, we gotta.. 'Cause, you know, you're Australian, - You were never one for it. - Gamesmanship. You were never one for it, though. - Yeah, I was. So you were pretty quiet then. - Right. - I worked out how to do it. You just went, &quot;I'm gonna kill you.&quot; - &quot;I'm gonna kill you.&quot; Yeah. ...on you, right? on you at the one time. How do I try and work it out? Right. You can't There's a stump mic that can hear you. So you know how Yeah. Well, when I go and scratch my nose and just give the batsman.. as I'm scratching my nose they can't see my mouth moving. They can hear something, And you give the batsman as you scratch your nose, like that. Which were the batsmen To me it was like, Because you're bowling so when you play 20-20 you know, the first ball, - Yeah. you sort of get into the game. Test match, you might bowl Four maidens in a row. Viru, I dragged down the first ball, of the game, he go.. I'm like, &quot;Jesus. He'd just wink at me, laugh, So, Lara. You'd bowl - backward point. You'd bowl the ball there again, same ball.. - You'd bowl the ball there.. So he was a nightmare to bowl to He would take the ball that you bowled, he'd just hit to six different spots - Oh, I hated bowling Hated him on the field. Harbhajan. and he'd be like sledging me back, and he'd be hitting sixes and all that. But, off the field, Even to the extent, last year where he found out - Yeah. and sent him his own cricket gear from India. - I mean.. Pads, and thigh pad, and gloves - That's really nice. sledge you once and say, - Yeah. - &quot;...the place - 2006. My son had been born.. ...he was about six days old. - Yeah. I'm looking at him, right? play and miss, he goes, &quot;your kid after where I was born.&quot; - I'm like.. He goes, &quot;I was born in Preston.&quot; I was like, &quot;Oh, I didn't know that.&quot; Bowl the next ball he goes, &quot;Mate, how the hell am I Where I was born, I thought.. And I'm laughing my head off, &quot;What are these guys doing?&quot; You know, we're talking and I thought that's pretty cool. Can you still pick out, like, - Tough one, yeah? One being the baggy green cap. So our baggy green cap is something And I know it's just a green felt cap that is uncomfortable to wear but you put it on, You feel like you're 6'6&quot; you feel like because of the history because of what Allan Border and then Steve Waugh, you know Mark Taylor, they all hope that - that legacy And who gave you yours? - or.. - Yeah, so who was yours? - left arm bowler for Australia. He got called for throwing and then my action Right on cue. - It's good, it's funny. My first Test wicket against India - Ramesh from India, left-hander. Sadagoppan Ramesh. We've all done some commentary with and they keep rolling in that clip, - every time we're on together. He's a lovely guy. But I reckon was against Pakistan playing in my first One Day match I'm walking out and the person I'm walking out behind - number 20 on his back. He's wearing his Australian colors, we're singing the national anthem Steve and Mark Waugh, I thought, &quot;How cool is this, you know? &quot;playing for Australia one day.&quot; You know, we were Allan Border, we were Viv Richards in the backyard and all of a sudden here we are as two brothers, - That's pretty cool. - Shane's - Two-and-a-half. - he's batting, right? Big brothers bat. - I am a big brother, so I know. And my younger brother - than me and Shane put together. Yeah, he's a gun. But Shane was always the older brother &quot;All right, you bowl.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, I wanna bat as well.&quot; And I would always wanna play, I had to just bowl the whole time. But Shane got the same number or as the same as Bradman. He was out five or six times, - No DRS. So then I went to bat, got bowled first ball he said, &quot;See you,&quot; So I started crying, mum came out Shane got a smack and I got another bat. - It was perfect. Two. You even sang a song - with Asha ji. - Yeah. Okay, how awkward was the acting in the video for you? Very awkward, very cheesy.. - Yeah. It was a lot of ducking you know, like in 'Ace Ventura..' - Yeah. - ...when he's like But I got approached and they said, &quot;Listen, we'd like you &quot;you wouldn't have heard of her.&quot; They went, &quot;What?&quot; &quot;We're doing a collaboration, So they went through that were doing a duet with her &quot;And a guy called Robbie Williams..&quot; I went, &quot;What, from England?&quot; - I said, &quot;If Robbie's in, I'm in.&quot; And they said, &quot;Just turn up.&quot; - Yeah. - ...playing in the And we had to go and win next day, get the opportunity to go down - 'cause we had to do a film clip. If we'd lost, we would've flown home. So I made sure Sorry. And we end up coming down and that was it. - Do you remember the song? I can do.. What are the lyrics? &quot;Kya tum mere ho&quot; &quot;Mere hi rahoge&quot; &quot;Haan main tumhara hoon - There we go, right? - We've got it. What's the pig handler story? - Yeah. - A very famous Australian film So it's about this pig this talking pig. And I was in the agricultural shed looking after all the animals. And, you know, And there were 52 pigs used in 'Babe' because they'd train a little piglet up and it'd grow too big and then they'd have And apparently, I must have that have come from the ag shed. And then 'Babe' came out. And then right at the end, - So I've got a credit. Can you imagine? - That's amazing. And look at how diverse So you can measure up suits there's a pig handler - there's.. - Then go again Leave aside cricket. Right? There's a musician there's a Hindi singer. You do some music-related work - with underprivileged kids - It's in India. Yeah. So it's called Mewsic. And it's a play on words - Yeah. that we can teach them music To me, when I learned how to play music that was the part of the jigsaw puzzle 'Cause I've grown up And with mum playing, dad reckons.. Dad reckons he played the flute, I've grown up, touch wood, with no issues but a lot of children don't. So I wanna allow those children as what they possibly can. And India's been great to me, and the love I get from India. So it's my right, Because you can't keep and keep take, take, take, You gotta put back in. - That's beautiful. There's a saying that &quot;Giving is the most selfish thing in life - And it's true. Binga, thanks so much for doing this. Mate, this is awesome! You know what, I would go as far as to say, I've ever had in 25 years. - Oh, really? - Yeah! And I'm gonna promote - Yes, please. Well done, mate. All right, this is the call to action. Hi, I'm Brett Lee, with of course GK the champion Make sure you tune in and subscribe, We've had a good chat, haven't we? Yes, we have! And we want you - for that very reason! And I'm number 50th. - Raise the bat. &quot;Raise the bat, raise the bat.&quot; And then do Dandiya. Dandiya! You touched the spoon. Hear the &quot;ting.&quot;