[bright Hawaiian music] [man] This whole entire rainforest grew after 1946. 1946, there was a tsunami. The highest point of the water [Peter] Oh, wow. How long has your family been out here? -For a very, very, very long time. We're actually known... the last original family -The name of the valley is Halawa. Ha, meaning breath or life. So the sufficient life, that is what This is where old houses used to be When I was a young boy and some elders living here. Below us through the trees -Okay, yeah, right here? And the old irrigation ditch used to be a foot trail -It's a Toyota road. -This is your place? -The waterfall is right behind. So this is our place right here. All of these taro terraces that has been in my family The irrigation ditch, My elders brought me here, taught me Came in with my brothers, That was one of my dad's dreams to see this place functioning like when [Peter] This is amazing, Greg. Thank you for letting me come here. [Greg laughs] -You're a legend on the island. -Uh, maybe. [laughs] -The people I told -Oh yeah. -This your little guy here? -Putin? This is my so-called security around here to help bark at all the deer -What do you got with the shell here? -This is a pu. In Hawaiian culture in Hawaiian language it means shell. Basically this is my phone for the valley. This is how I talk to my boys. How I communicate back and forth How we start protocol. -Your boys are out -Right now boys are in the valley with some visitors from different places. Some from England, The way we like to share culture We like to share culture The way I grew up and the way is you learn culture from the inside out. -Not the outside in. -Yeah? And you learn culture from When my elders grew up... he had to learn how to speak English from the first American school -Wow. So until then, was very different than the protocols So what I've learned we never went onto another island. We never went into We never went hunting, fishing, or touching any part of an island without asking the people -Okay. Did I ask for permission properly? -Well you asked permission And what we're gonna do right now is we're gonna ask permission -Okay. So what we're gonna do is [Hawaiian], -Okay. -Usually my elder or someone would be here but since you're already with me we still go traditional. So asking our kapunas, or elders, permission to enter. [blows shell] [blows shell] [blows shell] [Greg sings in traditional Hawaiian] [singing continues] Welcome to my home. -Beautiful. Thank you. [Greg speaking Hawaiian] Welcome This Oreo right here, -This is nice. -You've really built this up well. I mean this is just like its own world back here. This is basically the [Hawaiian]. Basically what I did is I went back and I tried to put together that Hawaiian people used. -So you're totally off the grid? -Electricity, water, food, -Well bare necessities -Beans, rice-- -Milk, okay. But my water comes from the stream, I got apple trees, orange trees, avocados, bananas, macadamia nuts. Summer months are really good for growing a lot of our vegetables because it's not so rainy. In our rainy season We're slowly getting out of as you can see our taro patches, the banks So if the grid did go down, -I'm good. -You're good for years out here? I mean no milk but you're fine. -You can survive? -That's awesome. I've got big, deer, and goat here I've got o'opu. Which is our native Hawaiian-- We nicknamed the native Hawaiian catfish. A lot of people get touchy Shrimp, prawns, Fresh water. -You name it? So this is what Halawa Valley used to -Oh, wow. After the 1946 tsunami all these -So how many people My dad says when less than 100 families. -How many now? -Um geez, there's maybe 8 to 12 people -And how many at your place? At my pace it's myself My dad just passed away -Okay, I'm sorry. Let's go take a walk up to the back. -We have the shoes on These are what we call tabis. Tabis were introduced It's more like a Japanese shoe. Hawaiians have never had We like to use these with the felt bottoms to go walking We use them to go into the ocean or what we call opihi. They're really good and prevents us As you can see we have a few clogs You see all the leaves are piled up here. So basically what we're gonna do and slowly work our way down. -Okay. -In this ancient irrigation ditch and it's Water's one of the most important things. These are old house sites. As we walk through you're gonna see -Okay. -If you look through the trees here -Oh, yeah. So these are all old fields. -So the trees right now, These were all farming fields. So mother nature has and this rainforest is who came back and reestablished You can throw a seed pretty much -So land is very interesting in Hawaii. I haven't connected all the dots someone can own some land there's a taro patch-- -That belongs to somebody else. -And that's like the land within the land through the other person's land and then It's access to land like every place else. Kuleana land rights, yeah? -That's what it is, so if you have land you can always access it? -Back in the old days or if you were kuleana land owner, Some people lived down here And since the way our place was, So we had pathways here in the valley that was like easements where people could to get to where they gotta go And a lot of people look that These hiking trails These were easements or pathways You see the old abandoned house? -Oh wow. -See it? -That's my Uncle Lani's place, yeah? -Uncle Lani's place -Kind of if you fix it up As you can see these are all the houses here's the easement that we can walk on and the irrigation ditch. It goes along the irrigation ditch because everybody's responsible If you check the people in here they all So when my dad would I would say, &quot;Who was who? He says, &quot;No, we're all not dating, we're all first and second cousins.&quot; So this place was one big family. My dad says, &quot;Why you think -&quot;I lived in a place with only family.&quot; When my dad went to marry my mom &quot;Did grandma have a problem with you and he says, &quot;All grandma asked me is and I told grandma I don't know, [Peter chuckles] -So... you know? -Number one is cooking skills? -That's all grandma asked my dad is, What we found out is -Where was your mom from? -My mom was Indianapolis, Indiana. -Oh, okay. -So this is an original irrigation ditch What we did is we restored it. They say the oldest fire pit dates back to 650 AD. So that's what they say has been Today we're going through and and we're redoing stuff to double check the machines and things we have -Yeah. -So some place older coulda been found I live in the middle of this valley. Who really knows. -How often do you leave? -She's not here? -No, she lives on Oahu. -She's our Channel 2 news anchor. -For the 10:00 news. -Long distance relationship -I live on Molokai, my wife lives on Oahu. -It's only a 30 minutes flight. It sounds further than it is. [Greg] We're not that bad today We're gonna come back but I'll take you up -So Greg, this clothing you're wearing, -Yes, it's what I was raised with. [Hawaiian] I asked my dad, My dad would says, I asked my dad, &quot;What is Moaula?&quot; The home of the red dragon. In Hawaiian culture Just like in other cultures. Mythical creatures -Okay. -Do you have like a Sasquatch equivalent? Like the forest monster guy. -I don't know if we have a Sasquatch leprechauns are menehune. Kind of like cave-dwellers -Oh, yeah? In these rocks up in these hillsides? -They were the rock stackers As you can see all ancient Hawaiian sites. We're gonna take a walk up here I'm gonna show you a place, yeah? [Peter] There is definitely a very rich -It's a very spiritual feeling back here. You know whenever in very beautiful nature it commands respect. It makes you feel small. Yeah, goosebumps. -Still. -You're whole life and still getting that. Goosebumps when I walk -Yeah. -'Cause it's not just walking It's about feeling places like this. -I just got 'em. -Yeah? That is how we know our ancestors... You know, my dad is with me today, This is where they used to live. This was a house site. Now this whole valley's Imagine stacking stones like this. How many people or how long did it take? Look at the size of the stones The way the valley was broken up And in the ahupua Eelees were like different districts Each district was ran by a family and there was one person in charge -Would they trade amongst one another? -No me, no my, no I. My dad says when we grow up only us, ours, and we. How do you survive as a tribe if you you're practicing me, my, I? So was a lot trading, My dad always taught me My food was everyone's food. -How do you carry that these days? -Well... -I mean you're bringing me in here -What a lot of people don't know is I get people from different places, They want taro, hand-pounded paiai. They want whole eel ferns from me. They want bananas, papayas from me. We trade. You come from the town, We trade, who says money? Now the reason I like to practice now when there's money you have rich, medium, and poor. Take money out of the picture. Now you go to trading. What would you trade? A funny joke, I'll give you food. Help me at my house, I'll give you food. Who says it has to be money? Everybody's got a talent. Everybody's got a skill. Everybody's got something to trade. But not everybody has money. When you take money out of the picture Everyone is the same. -Have you lived off the island? -Yes, I have. I've lived in LA. I've traveled, yeah? I lived in Oahu. I was always told -Okay. -And if I never go out to see the world what you have or what you've been taught. -What did LA teach you? -About the hustle and bustle. About me, my, I. About if you don't got this, if you don't got something, stuff, When I was living in LA Everybody was there to acting, to become a model. I was up there because my wife and she was up there Because she was acting in movies, in the States. How I met my wife is she was I was the cultural adviser. -That is how I met my wife. That's how I ended up in LA. Yes, a woman took me away from my home. Only girl to ever get me I'm still with her today. -But it was a good experience, right? Because you never know something -Never know until we leave it for a while. So right now we're coming up This is the [Hawaiian]. and when we say [Hawaiian] This platform you see in front of us, -Oh, yeah. That is where people would come and pray -So Christianity is very strong I met a lot of Mormons actually, -We're very religious people. -Yeah. -So we take to praying. We took to this stuff very easily, yeah? In Hawaiian culture what my dad says is, &quot;We saw similarities in their belief This valley was and a lot of the worship sites -So there wasn't one god? Gods for everything? -Well... It's hard to say. Some people say there's many gods. Some people says [Peter laughs] But if you look at religion -Oh, yeah. I mean most of it's -And that pretty much gets me out of -I'm gonna use it. Thanks, Greg. Most of the major religions, there's -This is what my elders taught me. So this is the temple or the worship site As you can see it's been breaking apart. -So you only know about this -Yes. -That's the only way -He's walked me around this whole valley. I'd sit and listen to stories. When I was a young kid what my dad was doing with me. I used to think I was being tortured. I'd have to sit in room with elders &quot;Uncle's got some paperwork He would take me to places why he was taking me to these places. But today when I sit and people or if I ever heard this person Before my dad passed away, &quot;Son, you were there. &quot;Now you get to share &quot;If we never hear it from them is that our elder's story He's one of the most but he was particular He says it's very important for the people to keep your story. Remember there's always editors. There's always people who rewrite. People will say my readers -So I have to do it in this way. -It has to be told in the way the person-- -More power than most people understand. I could even make this through an edit, -Exactly. -You could make this turn horrible. -This could be the worst thing ever. -Because I've seen your work -The beauty of the world we're in now is actually a lot of people They don't want a hyper-edited video all chopped up with music, -So... -That's why we take a little stroll. -This is what I really do. This is the first time Everybody see the small edited versions They did the [Hawaiian], and that is all they saw. Now you're walking around. -So how often are you back here? -I walk this valley every day. -You get up in the morning, come out here? -My routine is tied in with nature. -It's raining you're not coming-- that is where I go. It all depends on Every day is some type of gathering. -What are you eating today? So my people who just left, So I got a trade. They took out the venison. They brought me... steak. Something that I do not have -So that's nice? -So now gonna take that steak pick some ferns, pick a little bit this, make a little something [Peter] What does it mean to be Hawaiian? -Hawaiian culture Yeah? If you think about it, Hawaii was a volcano that popped out -Yeah? -There are some ancient legends But today we all know that How did people get here? -Boats obviously. -Now when people got here did they leave their names, beliefs, and start &quot;Hawaiian culture&quot;? Or did they bring Now if everybody that's mean we had Now if you came from Tahiti to here, you didn't change your name to Hawaiian We got the name Hawaii who came from the island called Hawaii. He conquered the rest of the islands. And since he practiced 'Cause king and queen King and Queen is European tradition. King Kamehameha King Kamehameha, his armies and we even have ancient legends sending people out to different places and to bring all those techniques back. So what is real Hawaiian What makes us Hawaiian? Why are we called Hawaiian? My elders asked me that question, I says because of all the things we do. My elders would always tell me if it was the chief from Molokai today we would be the kingdom of Molokai That is just what Some people get upset with me saying that So when people says, &quot;That's not right.&quot; Because they're the one who taught me and if my elders were born in the '30s, graduated school in 1954, my elder's first language is Hawaiian. He had to learn English that was built in Halawa Valley. He graduated from that school in 1954. He says the islands the kids call is called Molokini and Kanaha. He says, &quot;We used to paddle canoes for sacred sea cave burials.&quot; &quot;You kids would know nothing because when I was a young boy the military would use that island So since the island got bombed the sea caves collapsed and today that they used to do sea cave burials He says, because they're not If the old timers don't tell these stories or if we don't ask the old timers what is the real story? Even though the overthrow of Hawaii America... taking over Hawaii they don't agree with any of that -Mm-hmm. -But my elders always told me, &quot;Now if... American didn't do that to us, Because in the world today, people who want to control, Hawaii was too important of a pawn piece What a lot of people don't know You know, from other teachers that if America didn't take us over Japan, Korea, I believe China and Russia -Yeah. -America, I believe... Which I'm not exactly sure. I just believe that America moved first. -Yeah? -So the way my dad said it is, but it could be a lot worse.&quot; He says, &quot;Today, you kids to practice culture &quot;When I grew up I could not &quot;I grew up in the time He says, &quot;We went to American school.&quot; &quot;They taught us how to speak English.&quot; &quot;We got in trouble Yeah, he says &quot;Our taro fields So he says, He says, &quot;Yeah, so if anybody should be upset, &quot;Because it was taken from us.&quot; &quot;Today you kids have everything &quot;It's up to you to share.&quot; &quot;If you don't share... it's you -Yeah, but isn't it fair to say that that way of sharing right now... This is coveted land. People want this real estate, right? -Yes. It's Hawaii, right? So do you worry about... I mean it's already happened Not on Molokai it feels like but on the other islands, -Big money always comes in no matter what. The unique thing about this island that will fight for what they want. What I've learned from my kapunas is but if you work together as a people The visitor comes to our islands They only see what's in media, If we don't take the time then it's us who prevents all of this Technology can be used to save our culture -Yeah? So when I work with a lot of kids I tell them you can be an influencer or you can be an influencer Right? Which way do you want to influence? -That way has an expiration date. [both laughing] [water flowing] My pipe is to the stream. So this pipe right here is river water. That is what feeds my home. -No filters? So if the water is brown in the river, the water comes out brown And a lot of people look at me, goes, &quot;Oh my God, it's gross. I work with schools and universities, I get educated So they do soil samples, and what a lot of people don't know is My water has perfect PH All my native life I got no giardia, I drink river water. -But you look so unhealthy, Greg, -I know. [both laughing] River water man, if you think about it, where does all our vitamins The earth. -Gatorade, no? [both laughing] -What kids would say today, Powerade. -Monster Energy. -But... now if the water has calcium, iron, and all of this stuff inside, now basically I'm just drinking [Peter] That's a cool shot, look at that. This place is great for the camera. -This separates me from Nobody's controlling me I have the say over my every day life. I have the say over my food. I have the say over -There's nobody down here... Except for this guy. Shh, hey. [clicks tongue] Yeah, I have nobody down here I'll go pick some ferns real quick. -Why all the no trespassing signs? -Because we used to leave the place and then people started walking here, and suing all the property owners. -Oh my God, really? -So that is why now, And we close everything... All the landowners got together because people were getting sued They were saying, &quot;You don't got a sign You didn't have a private property, So this is America, what do people do? Blame somebody else. -Rookie question, what's the brown here? -This is what we grow it's kinda like a... Almost like a miniature lily pads, -Okay. -And it grows on top of the water, I'm having a brain fart right now. But what we use this for is we grow over When we harvest our taro patches this will sit and dry up, It's high in nitrogen. -Are you fully natural here? No chemicals? -No chemicals, no fertilizers. -No fertilizers? Wow. All of this is... My whole place -So this land has never been tainted -It's as natural as it gets? -I don't use no fertilizers Or that stuff inside of here. Then this is a fern that we eat. Which I like to cook, yeah? We call ho io. Or some people call them o io. Some people call them poholai. These make a good salad or I like to chop them up or when I steam. How our family has kept the culture at five years old and train them. My dad says the military was always here and they were always watching We'd pick one child. That child do everything with the elders, that wasn't interested in the cultures So when they came down here they saw kids speaking English, behind closed doors there's a child -Learning history, learning tradition. My dad was that child that was taken he started teaching me at five years old. And he would share that story, &quot;Son, But since today culture I started all my three sons So all my sons Everything I'm showing you Second oldest church 1852, United Church of Christ. So built in the 1800s. A lot of people think this church but this building survived What happened to this church -Okay. So if you actually look at the wood... -Okay, yeah. -Can I go in? You're with me, you can go in. -This is great. -Yep, and this is the church that my dad If you look right through the old So I actually have my grandma buried here, Helen Kavaha is actually buried here [Peter] &quot;W.B. Upah?&quot;. -Upah, that's the family name. [Greg] So these are all graves right here. You can see little squares, There's another square. So grave, grave, grave, grave, grave, All graves, some had headstones, Some of the headstones were actually All the way up through this whole place is all grave sites My grandma's is right here. This is where my dad's mom is buried. He'd walk me behind before Hopefully I can get permission 'Cause they still own this place, Part of the old stories -You can hear the ocean just roaring. [Peter] It's hard to imagine -Oh, yeah. There used to be a tower This is where the women came My dad says when he was a young boy and the women noticed the water receding. They ran into this church and at the top of their lungs Yeah? Which was waring the people -And then how long did it come afterwards? -Well they had enough time to get My dad says not one person died that day. The women took the children He says men in the fields teenagers released animals Everybody met -And they lost everything? -Pretty much everything in this whole... I showed you in all those pictures And today nobody even knew or was a full-functioning community Swinging bridge, harbor, poi factory, all in this place. Fish pond. All no longer exists today. -So only a few people came back? -And today we're the only original family Still here today. I should say came back to the place. -How doe that make you feel? -'Cause my dad did go into the military but our elders were still here -How does that make you feel -Kinda good and kinda sad. I'm glad that there's original people left but I wish there was more of -Yeah. -Stories and the histories that was never handed down. -Look at that. -This is where the bell tower The bell tower would go straight up the church bell every day. They'd ring the church bell. [Greg] This park used to be So this is where the first My dad would say, &quot;Son this is where &quot;This is where I learned how &quot;Standing right here every morning.&quot; Yeah? He says this was the water fountain. Where they washed their hands Scrub your nails, Yeah? This right here was a pathway. See, you can see the walkway? Would come to the fountain and he says this pathway, right here, and this little cement square was the steps to go into his classroom. This is where One building, That's what we do. If you come here to buy land, We only have so much space on an island. Now if everybody come to this island what do the local people It's like any state or town. A lot of states and towns from people buying real estate Now the States, Here, us Hawaiian people -Yeah, and I'm not gonna turn the camera don't want to be on camera but what he was saying was deer outfitters, -A lot of mainland people coming, So they'll come in and buy up all the land and then places where us used to hunt, now we cannot go anymore because -Okay. -They don't see it -'Member I told you -Right, so there's tension right now. It's not mine, his, -Okay. So your friend is a local -No, he's already doing it. I believe in what he's doing. -Trav's link is down below. -So if someone goes on-- -How's the waves? [Greg giggles] [both laughing] -What you just did there, That's what we call the honi, -The exchange of ha. In Hawaiian culture we go -We exchange the breath of life. [Peter] So your place is basically -Yeah, up in the valley. And where we're at right now, This is where we did This is where we did the ceremony We created a place Practice their Anyone who wants to or they want to get connected, [Peter] This is great. What a place. What a place to grow up. -Can't complain. The children, the kids, -It feels so detached -Feels like you're in another place, huh? You're in your own world Which is its own world. On a chain of islands [Greg laughs] -Removed from the world. That's wild. -Oh, yeah. -I mean the fact that to get here from my home than for me to is pretty mind boggling -It is pretty crazy. -Technically we're in And I could get to Cairo, Egypt quicker. [Greg laughing] That's pretty amazing. [waves crashing] [jungle birds calling] This is my hideout spot, my man cave. -The man cave. -This is where I do my work with I got my velvet collection. All these velvets. -Is this where you sleep? My wife says &quot;If I'm gonna come visit you I've been sleeping in a tent for 10 years I built this -No way, you sleep in a tent? This is the first building I had -Now you sleep here? So I used to sleep right here. -See that platform? Right on that platform, my tent sat there. [Peter] So you guys are out here -Full-time. -How is it being out here? -We grew up on Oahu We're used to city life, -Okay, is it hard adjustment or... -We also grew up down here. -Do you miss Oahu at all? -People, but at the same time living -I really enjoy living here. Especially with what I do being that It helps with the social factor but at points I do miss home just because that is where mom, -Okay, in Oahu. I don't miss the craziness -You don't feel the rat race -Yeah, don't feel it at all [Peter] Greg, -Just a fast, quick meal. I'm gonna make a little stir fry with some ho io ferns, -Awesome. -I'm a quick cook. Devit, could you hand me Or is there still onions? -Yeah. [Peter] I like you have scopes -Oh yes, that's a .223 -So you're mainly shooting deer, right? -Yes. The deer come into my farm at night So I just don't shoot 'em. I give away a lot of the meat and a lot gets shipped [chopping] [Peter] Does it say, -Oh, yes. -But you don't have much fat on you. -Well, that was my mom. -This was my mom's kitchen. Now that they have passed and I try to keep mom's kitchen My mom passed away a couple years ago, and to me they're still here. [chopping] [Peter] I can't even tell you -You're gonna find out today. Basically we just blanch them And then I'll throw it into the stir fry [Greg] C'mon man, -I got an onion ho io salad, stir fry. -Yeah, got some rice over here. -Sorry I don't got any taro right now. Yeah, so help yourself. -You guys are eating, right? -Let them go first. -No, guests always go first. -Okay. Awesome. -[Greg] Some stir fry right there. [Greg] Oh, yeah. -So even though you live you love the social time, the interaction? -Oh, yeah. I might live away from everybody and really like being around people. What I do, it brings people into my home Even though I live in one of People tell me, &quot;Don't you get lonely No I don't get lonely, So I get company all the time. [Greg] So that's a fern That's a native that we'll eat. Yeah? Took the food that we traded out, -Great. -When visitors come to Hawaii &quot;How many times have you been to Hawaii The next question &quot;How many of you Most people only see what is on the beach, what is on the sunset mai tai canoe ride. What is in the great Hawaiian luau. What culture are you seeing? Are you seeing the culture for you before you came in? Or are you seeing the culture Today with you walking around with me... -Yeah. -This is not the hotel or the beach. -We saw the beach but... -To be fair, most tourists You know what I mean? -It would be hard. I had a contact of a contact hook us up. You know what I mean? But it would be hard for someone -It would be hard for someone but there are people who are still willing You found me through a contact. What a lot of people don't know is and I'm not just Now as me as a Hawaiian, if I know that a lot of the culture when doing the shows for the visitors in the hotel industry, what is my job as a Hawaiian? Do I get mad at the visitor Or now do I have to step up to the plate and says, &quot;This is what we really do.&quot; -So I think there One is the tourist, They have a chaotic crazy life. -They're here for weather and a beach. -And then the other type of tourist -It does really matter -Two types, right? -And I don't blame... Like I'm not saying I'm coming 'cause I want to learn. You know what I mean? I can take these lessons I've learned -That is true. All depends what the person comes for. -Yeah. I have experienced that before. -They're just... they get... They have no time and for five days, -I can understand that point -Obviously that way. And for us, as local people, we want -The tourists need to know that? -A lot of visitors go, You gotta be willing to open up what type of aloha do you come with? -Yeah, and I was told that Molokai As far as the hospitality of the people. Totally wrong. Everyone's been super cool. Like beyond friendly. This is the type of place you talk to and then you go to the store That's how you learn about a place, yeah. -Everybody meets, everybody hugs. -You know? -Yeah, auntie, uncle... -Everybody's auntie, everybody's uncle. You got something special. -I was always told by my kapunas, yeah, What happens with things -Things die when they become secret. When it's sacred We want everybody to love it Yeah? Sacred, not secret. My kuleana or my responsibility now my responsibility is to educate -So you feel that responsibility -Oh yeah, I take that very seriously. -[hands clap] 'Preciate it. I want to send the right people your way. If someone wants to learn how do they find you? -Well, you can look us up at -I'll put that link down below -Anything else you want to say? -Travis. -The guy we met down at the water? www.greenleafoutfitters.com -Okay, so if hunters want to come -Come check my buddy out. -Come and check me out, any which one -Thanks so much for that one -Until the next one. [bright Hawaiian music]