Mario Odyssey, but there's natural disasters... Let's find out which disasters Mario can disaster paintings. Some of these paintings look &quot;Complete paintings to unlock the cages&quot;. and we've only got one disaster unlocked All right let's go into it let's see what it does. I see a bit of a volcano. It doesn't is good. We don't want the volcano oh oh okay okay it just erupted! oh my gosh - did hot stuff rising up - save yourself Mario! oh okay the volcano a little bit. This looks honestly so and that's also erupting! oh no... I guess we need to to mention this but there's also custom enemies to the themed enemies! get out of here! I'm guessing Oh normally there's a river here but it's We need to make it to some Higher Ground. Is that... lava Chain Chomps, that I guess when you jump on when they charge up they get lava themed, like that! nearly at the mainland. I need to make my way to gonna go up and capture the dinosaur. oh my gosh! let's see if we can capture it... yeah we can! we can! oh no I only captured it by accident don't burn me second - the dinosaur can walk on the lava! can't though! Let's break these roots with the volcanoes - let's give that a try. Oh my gosh it's by the lava! Oh no Peach, Peach watch out! Oh no rest bad for Peach! You can only capture the dinosaur to disappear. Oh but it looks like the lava has dinosaur now. I need to make sure I'm in the middle Cappy couldn't hold on to it for any longer! We've the exit painting because it's got that Hub world looks so cool with all the lava around that one was the only thing to survive. Legend ... Legend! like it. This is probably the one I am looking Fork? How did you get up there? What? Does he have bubble for a second. &quot;The city doesn't know what at all! This painting looks so cool though. It's All right let's go into it... what? it didn't Okay... nothing looks out of the usual yet. Okay okay okay maybe down this alley by this trash. Oh no! Why are There's a giant tsunami behind you bro! Stop having Oh my gosh! How did those guys survive that? How are other been knocked over! These trees have been knocked people survive that?! There's these things floating to the surface before we drown! oh oh oh oh oh oh doesn't look quite good... Everything looks like it's over as well! There's these floating crates I yeah we can still crush them there's a floating Oh wow there's floating Mario parts we can capture. just sink down immediately! There's trees floating yeah I want to do jump rope! The system still giving me like a count on my best. this is kind of oh what I got a moon for it! What on Earth?! I It looks like Pauline's up here with a people that can't breathe underwater. Somehow the Sure thing!... What's she saying? I'll be Anyway we've got a new objective: Reach the top of of New Donk City! I see we can do some Parkour too steep just to climb up I need another big wave things - these girders are very straight, so it sort we can use this electricity pylon. We want to be when there's a lot of water around! Oh no - whoa the Okay we've got a platform - let's see if we can make There we go very nice and with that platform this top of the tower. Can we still climb on it even Yeah, we can! okay nice... so gonna be anything at the chili? well I think this is a dash pepper! it's made Mario really mad. I guess it's too spicy I've got an idea... What would happen if we jump in let's do a big dive in maybe a bomb don't belly Oh my gosh, it got rid of all the water! We've still I guess we fixed up the city! Everything although and there's also the painting back to the hub and let's see which disaster we've unlocked next! What does this Fork man have to say about it? drought!&quot; Yeah it looks like it... There's all cracks and... is that Jared the alien? I missed Jared Jared the alien!! Anyway anyway let's go into this Like how we fixed the city! Oh! The grass looks there's a cactus here... there's shrubs. It looks Kingdom there's no water in the Lake Kingdom from been hit with a proper drought. there's all cracks game's so stupid obviously I can't swim if there's there's also a dinosaur bone here I think this is how have you learned the ability to fly what new objective find Captain Toad I wonder where he which is down like a giant hole you see that hole towards it oh it looks like dory's been dried out oh my gosh it's a collected Moon there we go nice bad for her she's just flapping around on the she's white my skin feels so dry I hope it will sad get out of here driving these dry bones are I be able to bring the water back to this place my eye out for him there's these giant bones here greenery as well there's a bit of Shrubbery so be okay but I think these are from the Cascade another Cactus on this pillar we're praying for you seen him no I haven't but he should be down around here or if you haven't seen water why are sense at all Bruh this guy's negative IQ I need a very dry a mushroom man came around this way he on this giant hole but I'm not going to be able deep I need to do a dive straight away to break Captain Toad what are you doing here thank for ages I'm so busy can you help me out maybe I behind you that can bring you back all you have me through the painting follow me he better have oh it looks like we've unlocked the forest fire lie this looks so cool whoa that guy kind of my friends are trapped in the foreign yeah okay okay okay guys I will save your friends in the forest fire let's go into it oh oh okay there's a lot of fire around here oh no don't want to get burned I have to duck under this still here you've got to save the Boris Mario how am I gonna do this the fire's everywhere oh my than here I bet it's cooler than here it's really find a fire truck I'll be able to put out all the there's like a little water patch there isn't any the stream we'll be able to find a fire truck music here this area has some pretty cool music is normally in the wooden Kingdom but in this looks so burnt this natural disaster honestly might be my favorite one so far oh wow okay these okay up this way that satin Kingdom guy seemed way able to make our way up this way as that guy said oh oh there it is the fire truck oh my gosh this it let's find out let's find out if I can drive can okay why to accelerate Visa jump okay I can the fire or let's follow this path oh okay the there we go okay we made it up oh this area with able to do a jump up here and down to all the hose and shoot oh we put out all the fire in back to normal that water somehow healed the I think that's our objective complete for this just spawned I hope Toad's happy with me now how moved what they saying now hello Captain Toad I guess that's for saving his friends thanks so you Captain Toad oh that's put a smile on my face maybe you'd be nice like Captain Toad one person a second one person isn't subscribed scroll change it immediately because you don't want to anyway anyway it looks like we've unlocked because rain and poison. All right, let's go into it let's oh my gosh okay it's raining everything looks objective to beat the giant lemon oh what the grass and plants are dead they've all turned this in the water what is that nuclear waste oh in Poison oh no this is so sad how can we Save poison Gushen that we can capture that we can go poison these actually use the poison to regenerate wait are these Goombas are these poison Goombas I Can I stack them and capture them let's give that actually walk around oh no oh no oh no okay oh go too deep in the poison come out your shell objective is to beat the lemon wait I've Got might be like a scientific nerdy Theory but acid a very strong Alkali so maybe if I somehow blow Kingdom and it will go back to normal it's worth the lemon has tentacles as well! We should just then blow him up go on go on go on there we no, the lemon's running away oh my gosh lemon it's so cool that I could use these things to those poison like skewers things these aren't he spinning and shooting me that's got some mad surely he's a bit dizzy now loving head come back he's dizzy now so I might be able to get an attack the lemon head and then the kingdom will go back the water also regens these guys not just the lemon head everyone comment lemon head if you want you're about to die I want to see if I can ground on Lemon head get out of here he looks so goofy yes yes, it's just gonna turn oh let's go hey and we've also unlocked a painting! be happy with me now. Oh where's Captain Toad only painting we have locked now is the asteroid painting out of all that it's heading straight How would I survive that in there! Anyway anyway... let's if you dare oh the blizzard! Wait... it looks like Alright Captain Toad we're gonna come in and save gosh whoa this looks cool this is the lost kingdom Captain Toad our only objective at the moment is is he's normally just chilling at the very very nah you're not a captain Tov you've got glasses on oh oh snow spider get out of here spider your you into the poison get out of here okay there's and then he'll come back and charge at me you're there we go these Buzzy Beetle things are cringe beetles oh there's also snowy wigglers do these cool oh I can also use these snowy beetles to shoot me there we go he blew up more than once up then oh I can use this ledge very smart now or jump oh no oh how did I make that I almost if I press this button those should spawn getting a lot of coins here you're not Captain Toad my goodness I wonder if this shop will be a snowstorm at the same time hello glide on I completed that objective but there's a new one away I think that's the exit painting let's glide the pipe that spawned oh no glide on I'm sorry today but it looks like there's a SpongeBob pipe just gonna go into the painting I hope I'm gonna so wide now what the heck I bet you can't survive you wrong with this big asteroid coming in that see if we can survive the asteroid like he says I don't like that thought guy I think he's got oh okay okay why hasn't anyone noticed it the sky have noticed it okay we need to find somewhere to in the sky everyone's acting so nonchalantly okay maybe it'll survive if I go in this tunnel oh to impact let's run into the tunnel oh my gosh oh did you hear that impact the grass here has been guess everything's what the trees have like been I can still climb it for some reason! I can still I love climbing... for now my favorite hobby! Wait, has knocked over and it's on fire! Oh wait, is this the a giant lava hole. Wait whoa that looks so cool the I think it's knocked all the trees away but where just Captain Toad. Captain Toad what are you doing That sounds rather ominous Captain Toad. I don't know meteor made the dog mutate?! What on Earth... anyway this natural disaster video you might also enjoy bigger and stronger and I'd really appreciate it! so long making the levels for these videos like on this... honestly! Watch the Shine makes Mario