Our galaxy is an enormous place with billions habitable planets. Yet a single Dyson Sphere contains as much living space as all of those planets combined. So today we are talking about Dyson Spheres, of all the light produced by a star. This should be fairly familiar ground for we do talk about them a lot. We've talked about them in terms of the We've talked about them as the basis for in the Kardashev Scale episode. We've talked about their individual components habitats and orbital rings. We've talked about special purposes they Thruster, or using one to toast planets thousands episode. But we've never sat down and discussed it today. One peculiar aspect of Dyson Spheres is that science fiction, especially Film or TV, even path that advanced civilizations would pursue, Part of that avoidance in fiction is probably These things are immense, and would dwarf More in fact, a classic Dyson Sphere outfitted randomly scattered every living human around to themselves. On the other hand, most fictional planets one town simply because a fully populated scope, and a Dyson Sphere that much more so. They are so big that even if you only gave sized area of one, it would require several read. We are going to try to wrap our heads around let's start with the basic concept. All life on this planet is fundamentally powered planetary energy budget deriving from geothermal tidal heating the Moon generates while orbiting That sunlight provides an incredible amount watts of power, or 174,000 Terawatts. Our own energy needs in terms of electricity We do consume a lot of energy, but it's constantly, though of course we use a lot and heat our homes. A lot of that light is wasted, bouncing back Even what little actually hits photosynthetic help us stay warm, it could do that just as purposes first. Whether you plug in a light bulb or TV or as heat, which is an important point to remember A lot of energy hits Earth, and a lot is reflected to solar power panels is land you can't So folks often discuss the idea of putting down. That's an ample and nigh inexhaustible supply hitting our planet is the Sun itself produces Earth and a quadrillion times what we use You can kind of guess where this is going, to vary from person to person. What fiction tends to reference is a big solid but that is not what Freeman Dyson, for whom In fact, he wasn't thinking of an object referring to on the channel either. Such a construct is virtually impossible to form of artificial gravity available, but later. The original Dyson Sphere, typically known confusion), is really just a giant cloud of obstruct most or all of a star's light. It's easier to think of it as a solid spherical Such a sphere would generally have a radius 10^8 kilometers, and an area of 2.8 x 10^17 In terms of Earth, that is just over half 2.2 billion times as much area, because the on its cross-section to the Sun, Pi times area of 4 Pi R-squared. Only half the planet is lit at any time and perpendicular to its light. If the swarm was composed entirely of O'Neill in radius and 20 kilometers long, with an would contain 350 trillion of them. An O'Neill cylinder is about as big as we materials, and such a habitat might be sparsely home to millions. Also, while their rotation mimics gravity gravity. This means you could easily position hundreds by cables for vacuum trains, or even long, enough to offer comfortable spin-gravity to These habitats, along with thin mirrors and and electricity, tend to be considered the Now as I mentioned, you can connect them, moment, but let's assume each was on its Now these are not planets, so they can maintain or less surface to the sun, or maneuvering add more, so they do not need to be on anything as close as Mercury or as far as Mars with function or climate. But if we assume for the moment they have zone, closer or further, than Earth's average Sun, the volume these habitats are inside Whereas each cylinder has 1600 cubic kilometers external attachments, and with 350 trillion cubic kilometers or 10^18, one-ten millionth These are all constantly moving, but if we each habitat would occupy a cube 3000 kilometers center all by themselves. The system is essentially opaque, not because thick, much as fog or clouds are. Much as galaxies appear quite thick and hard by distances even larger than Dyson Spheres. So collisions are not an issue because they Folks tend to assume the various components because they are picturing something that Additionally, there are three things you can You can power lots of radar, lots of computers, So they have no problem tracking each other, don't happen. They can also vaporize any debris that wanders A fourth thing they can do is run giant clocks. I get asked a lot in terms of the Fermi Paradox to do a lot of omnidirectional broadcasts, Even with access to tons of power you don't so many frequencies to broadcast on, so you actual wires or using lasers, and probably But the one thing you would probably still is your positioning system. Everybody needs to know where they are and of trillions of habitats, but all your ships So you'd want to have a few channels devoted just like Earth's GPS system does. This is not absolutely necessary, but it is can be a single mega-civilization with a unified nations of one or more habitats, that's raise little objection in being passed or Not that stuff would start slamming into each each habitat would be quite capable of tracking most need to coordinate with a handful of But it saves a lot of resources if everyone what to do if two habitats are on an intersecting This also answers the regular question of the time and resources needed, because you needed or wanted over time. You might build one over a decade or over your needs and capabilities, but you do have population grows, more on that in a bit. As I said, they could be all scattered out, A given orbital path, be it a circle or ellipse, moves along. You can put many other habitats on that same becomes incredibly easy, indeed you can make Those familiar with Larry Niven's Ringworld also know it's inherently unstable and has handle the strain. If you did happen to have such a super-material, of them, each cocked at a different angle. However, those rings have to spin fast, and gravity via centrifugal force. The bigger an object is in terms of radius, force it must endure to produce the same amount But you can just run a wire right around a that's not super-stable, but it's decently Indeed, that's the basis of the Orbital at the time, you could super-size those to We have a type of Megastructure called a Rung more like a ladder wrapped around in a circle, The individual rungs of the ladder are rotating either a cable or even a full blown one-loop habitat we've discussed in passing before. Such a Rungworld might be a series of a million cables, one used for clockwise movement between Or it might be even more upscaled, if you Topopolises connected by thousands of McKendree It depends on your level of technology. Obviously, if you can bulk produce high-quality and carbon -- what graphene is made of -- is the two things we usually envision making And whereas an O'Neill cylinder is basically of thousands, a McKendree cylinder is a continent-class a billion people. They do not need to be connected, but this as dedicated transmission lines for power things. These, rather than the cloud format, are probably of a Dyson Sphere. In the general swarm your neighbors might remain in the same position on that ring. That would give you a lot more throw-weight million O'Neill Cylinder Rungworlds to enclose but even for the smaller one, it is probably than one of a few hundred trillion lone habitats. I usually refer to these entities as Ladder might ever exist, but whether or not they internal workings of a Dyson Sphere. As I said, the scale of these things boggles to wrap your mind around helps. Now one hardly has to jam-pack these things we'd expect the average O'Neill Ladder and a McKendree Ladder State to be more like Don't think of these as local super-powers a McKendree Ladder State is essentially a Next to each ring or ladder state would be further from the Sun, cocked at an angle, have much relative motion to their neighbors Each subsequent ring is tilted a little more The individual rungs could be nearly touching solar panels and smaller facilities in between. Now the question always becomes where do you the assumption is that you disassemble the have to, there are other ways to get the necessary Those planets also can cause a lot of orbital can also be managed. There are basically two ways you can start The first is to begin near Earth, basically the 'Planet Cloud' I've discussed before, a first ring. Earth is pretty massive so you've got issues itself, but this is manageable. Indeed, if you've got bulk graphene production, actually include Earth as a rung itself and to neutralize gravitational attraction. Subsequent rings might spawn from other planets or just near Earth, again at an angle. These rings can be pretty wide too. The further you get from the actual line of a different orbit. But that can be a pretty big distance even the strain, and materials like carbon nanotubes more. Nor do the rungs need to be tilted perpendicular be cocked onto the orbital path and you can dimensional than just a ladder wrapped in Your other starting point is near the Sun. Mercury is not classically terraformable, considered a far better candidate for raw To create an entire sphere of mirrors and a percent of Mercury's mass, hopefully less would actually be composed of power statites, quite thin. A Statite, which is short for Static Satellite, It is a very thin object light enough to float It is pushed away by solar radiation equal Essentially like floating a sheet of paper solar sail. Since both the outward force of the sun's square of distance from the Sun, a statite Sun, and each star has a specific density Too light and it blows away, too heavy and Interestingly, the bigger stars permit heavier than smaller stars, they also produce vastly A star twice as massive has twice the gravitational Also, statites can make use of solar wind can combine normal orbital methods with these satellite, one that orbits slower than normal mechanics, allowing decently heavier objects natural one. The exact mass density will vary from star square meter, thicker and it falls down, lighter Built at Earth's distance, a shell of statites kilograms, which sounds like a lot but Earth Nor does it need to be that big, it's just to the sun, smaller shell, less mass. Now such panels would not just be thin mirrors, them a little, or turn them at angles, as light all the time, so they'd probably be and counterbalance or gyro, so that you can This makes them all able to maneuver too, pass through to hit Earth for instance, as This setup is preferable to a single massive a classic single piece Dyson Spherical Shell. So we now have a tons of power collectors disassemble even Mercury. This brings up the question of "what do Which is different than "what do you do I consider the answer to the latter, "what area of Earth?" to be rather obvious. All that power though is another animal. You can't beam it back to Earth, it would discussing weaponizing a Dyson Sphere, a construct So you have a huge amount of power, what do We have a lot of options. If you've managed to design solid gamma to create small artificial black holes by known as a Kugelblitz black hole, which make trillions of years or more, or power starships light speed, or powering space stations and That's pretty high-tech, but does seem permissible a way to reflect gamma rays the way we reflect You can also use all that energy to power very large ships to interstellar velocities in the Interstellar Highways episode. Either way, the creation of such a power-only than a percent of a percent of the Sun's no new technology required. We can also use that power to run a Star Lifting to quickly recap, the Sun contains more matter combined, and that includes heavier materials There are thousands of Earth's worth of over the Sun, not just buried in the core. Extracting those is quite the Herculean endeavor, powers the extraction process. See that episode for details, but that is more robust Dyson, without disassembling planets. You only have to extract from planets, asteroids, The other option is to make the heavier elements We have been researching fusion for some time game changer practical commercial fusion would But it doesn't render a Dyson Sphere redundant, materials. When you fuse lighter elements, like hydrogen oxygen, you release a lot of energy. Our problem isn't doing this, fusion is needing something as big as a star and breaking Right now we have to pour more energy into fuse lighter elements into heavier elements. Such a civilization might just have fusion but also go as far up the chain as iron and If they can't do that, then they can opt thin early Dyson to power huge particle accelerators elements. Again, not high tech, just massive. So by this technique or by starlifting you build a bigger, thicker Dyson. Indeed, any star, even one with no planets process, can be made into an optimum Dyson. The material needed for any Dyson is related it surrounds, twice as bright, twice the material If you are plucking matter from a sun and keep transmuting more hydrogen and helium and its brightness begins to go down, decreasing until you hit the optimum balance. You can even arrange to leave planets in orbit power collectors or habitats tilt out of the rotate to focus more light on it, keeping So you could go build one around an alien thinking about how handy fire is, and when just offer them the Dyson as a gift and effective You've already gotten million of years of to make Kugelblitz black holes, you'd probably store that energy up and carry it home. You can also use this technique to take very won't go Supernova, thus killing off any several million planets worth of heavy matter your good deeds. It's much more efficient getting heavy elements tiny amount that normally forms planets. A Supernova scatters matter out in every direction, in the neutron star or black hole remnant. Of what remains, and reaches proto-solar systems a rocky planet with more of it buried inside In which case you have to star lift it out, See the Star Lifting episode for more details Now I am generally of the opinion that any there are a few types that are purpose built, detail elsewhere. The first is an obvious one, massive collections ones if you've either adapted to zero-gravity If the latter, you can actually build a classic rings to keep it rigid. You'd probably include solar panels nearer it rigid and maneuver thrusters to keep it Thus allowing you to have night time too, constant noontime light. It also has no gravity. No spherical shell -- no matter how massive at the middle, not at the edges, that's works. So everything would fall into the sun if you In Niven's Ringworld we get this by taking it very fast. This doesn't work with a Sphere though; the poles will still experience no gravity gravity. That's actually okay if you just want a weaker at some places and stronger near the power collector over both poles. If you really want a rigid Dyson you can walk would make such a sphere, spin it enough for habitats connected to the skin which each We will talk another time about how to make using active support. But that's purpose #1, replicating Earth. You could devote a planet's worth of space have a million Earths worth of such nature of your available space. You also can focus more on human living area, growth via hydroponics and have folks live to those discussed in the Arcologies and Ecumenopolis This dual mix is probably more likely, nature with some parks and lots of hydroponics. You can also genetically engineer life from and just let it set up its own Dyson swarm. Although genetic engineering might be a stretch, up, not even using DNA or carbon as your basis. I'm not sure how practical that is, but and may discuss it more if I ever do an episode to live in space. Emphasis on design because it's very unlikely Of course you can also use a lot of that energy and one focused entirely on that is called You can also go the big laser option, the version, where you are trying to extract all heavier elements. This has no official name so I just call it the one that just stores power into miniature Dyson. You can also tune one in its entirety to act converting all that energy into ultra-powerful You might use a few stars for doing this, if you had an interstellar civilization, since stars, so you have a few to spare. Lastly, you can use them to move stars, a That has its own episode too, but in short statites, the Dyson Bubble, and cause the thrust in the opposite direction. The Star provides the thrust and holds onto planets, with its own gravity. This along with Star Lifting, are good ways civilization, either by mining them down in By default a Dyson Sphere would be all of specializing in one specific ability. Any Dyson Sphere can move itself by reflecting off the sun to spray in one direction as a Any of them can power rotating habitats for generate huge beams that can move spaceships or upscale them further to blow planets apart Any can run vast networks of computers or or interstellar highways. I would tend to assume you would do all of An early Dyson is a thin one being used mostly as time goes on it replaces power collection which case those habitats are enormous processors The Matrioshka Brain, which also has its own Dyson taken to the extreme. Or at least the extreme using classic computing using reversible computing next week. All of these concepts work around using a of engine or system, which is why these are But even if you have better methods of power that matter and energy to fuel those better raw matter to energy conversion. You also still make the swarm because you entities to minimize travel time on matter you can be without getting too hot. That's a big note, Dyson's do not absorb it, use it, and radiate it away as heat, or If you didn't you would fry everyone inside, to break the laws of thermodynamics, which A Dyson is just as bright as the original and more diffuse, glowing in the infrared They also cannot be mistaken for any natural They look identical to some gas giants in in the same way a grapefruit looks like a color. Nobody with the technology to see either would fooled even momentarily by any method I have that did not require technologies not permitted This is not a Fermi Paradox episode, but Dyson's right from the get go; so they tend to always I'm sure folks will ask about it in the be trying to think up loopholes, but please Odds are I will have already answered the how they could never be made to look like candidate for dark matter. Ditto how civilizations might stop growing, one, we covered all that in the Dyson Dilemma I always advise people to resort to common You generally only go out of you way to hide from something that is bigger or stronger a Kardashev 2 civilization, is quite capable those contemplating building one know that knows where they live. On top of that, building a Dyson sphere isn't It is kind of like trying to build a deep machinery and explosives for excavation. Bigger, older civilizations will know you it. So you can build one of these. More technology helps but as soon as you can in space, you have the technology to make They're not high-tech anymore than a city and you can do a lot of R&amp;D when a mere millionth and a millionth is about what we use for any how many folks specifically study dolphins You can see the Kardashev Scale episode for that large, and what it can do even without They could basically beat the snot out of planets, since they have a billion planet's Just one of those Ladder States, even an O'neill resources and population that matches most But I personally doubt they'd tend to be coalitions ranging from fairly centralized and trade treaties. Possibly even totally independent entities than agreeing not to shoot them, or block Your guess is as good as mine. Fundamentally though, this is what we expect converge towards, barring any radical changes You'd probably have tons of smaller conglomerations interstellar travel is an automatic ability have colonies nearby and be sending more out We'd also expect each colony to eventually even a single O'Neill cylinder could probably kind of technologies available to them that or so. We have reexamined material I've discussed I've tried to keep away from those in detail, will answer a lot of questions you might have yet, but I think we can stop here for today. Hopefully by now you have a clearer image us tend to just take their future existence There's so many reasons to build one, the never heard a good reason not to build one. Even if your population plateaus off way short up, you still have reason to build one. Just collect and store matter and energy to the default maximum of about 4 billion years I can imagine a civilization that decides to be, but I'd still expect them to try Next week we will be looking at that concept, at the End of Time, where we will look beyond at there and explore continuing on past the computing, Boltzmann brains, and Iron Stars. For alerts when that and other episodes come and if you enjoyed this episode, hit the like Until next time, thanks for watching, and