Hello Brains! Last time, we talked about the concept of This week, we're going to talk about how to I mean...make it easier. I mean cheat! The &quot;Wall of Awful&quot; is a metaphor by Brendan it explains really well why we tend to have be really easy. There's a link to that episode in the description But to recap: the Wall of Awful is an emotional trying to do like, pay a past due parking the negative emotions and outcomes that come Here are ways we tend to try to deal with Here's a way that does work but isn't exactly And here's a way that works and is healthy. But sometimes -- we need a shortcut. Maybe we're tired. Or maybe our walls are really big and overwhelming. Maybe we're definitely not going to pay the a way to make it a little easier. In other words -- unless we modify that wall. Luckily, according to Brendan, there are a The first, he calls &quot;putting a door in it.&quot; I'll let Brendan explain. So, putting a door in the Wall of Awful is Because the Wall of Awful is made of emotions. So if we can get past all of those emotions we can get to the task at hand. A good example of this is that there's plenty &quot;I should go to the gym. I should go to the gym. I should go to the gym.&quot; And they're not going to the gym. But then, if the Eye of the Tiger comes on, floor because music affects us emotionally. And so we can use music to change our emotional motivated. It's certainly not the only option. A lot of the things that provide us with dopamine So a time limit -- if I only have 20 minutes Or novel experiences can help us put a door right? There's a reason so many people write in coffee Exercise is a great way to put a door in the some of that anxiety out but also because with dopamine. And if we can ride that dopamine window to And even if the dopamine kind of peters out, So why would we ever need to climb the wall Putting a door in it is gonna help you get gonna make it easier long-term. I mean, you can just always write in a coffee But you haven't dealt with whatever the barriers Which isn't really a problem, until the coffee you run out of money because coffee is really In which case -- whatdowedo. So one thing we can do is start putting handholds And what that looks like is developing some to get started. Like developing time wisdom. Something that I have a Wall of Awful for In my head, mowing the lawn is an all-day Because we ADHD people conflate emotions and bigger it feels. So I timed how long it really takes me to And it turns out, it's like a 2 and a half easier for me to start. Also, planning what you're gonna do before Setting more attainable and probably fewer my email&quot; say &quot;I need to reply to five emails&quot; And related to that is defining &quot;done.&quot; We have to know what &quot;done&quot; looks like if Because people with ADHD tend to have this Let's say we want to write a book, I feel day. Except that that isn't going to happen. Yeah &quot;I'm not done until I'm finished writing family or friends or eating until I'm done Right. But you can be. you can be done writing the book after an Another thing that puts really solid handholds That's why a commute is useful: because you're about what you have to do at work before you So we ride out that initial burst of anxiety to do. But if you're trying to transition directly As opposed to taking 15 to 20 minutes to transition Another thing that is really useful for developing how things have gone. &quot;Did it go as well as I wanted it to?&quot; &quot;Did it not quite go that well, but I still And then: &quot;Why?&quot; That kind of reflection is important because That's important to understand because I feel because I look at all the Walls of Awful that climbing!&quot; But it makes it easier for later. I can spend an hour climbing this wall of it today, and then spend a half an hour reflecting And now it's only gonna take me 45 minutes And I'm still 15 minutes in the hole, but 45 minutes and the day after that it's gonna that half an hour back. Even if all I save is 5 minutes, I'm still Do you still have Walls of Awful? Oh, yeah, all kinds of walls. Absolutely. Is there a way that you can prevent adding Forgiveness. And understanding. What really puts bricks in our walls is judgement. So if we can approach our challenges from and forgiveness and empathy, then we can avoid Maybe not all of them, but lots of them. That's true. You know it's actually kind of understandable that I was going through at the time. I can do this. ...I should probably finish the episode first. To recap: to modify our Walls of Awful, we change our emotional state. Or, we can put handholds in them by using For more ADHD tools and strategies, check subscribe so you don't miss future episodes! Thank you to my brain advocates and all my adding tools to this giant ADHD toolbox. And extra special thanks to the team that To find out more about the wall of awful, And I'll see you next time. Bye, Brains!