- [Jared] The best way to is to see it in 3D. We'll start at the top on the boat deck and then go through the ship deck by deck. My favorite is the very which has the engines which This is going to be a full tour so I hope to share with you a few things you may not know about the Titanic. (electronic sounds) Big thanks to The Ridge They're gonna be helping us So they have The Ridge Wallet, which will be much thinner It can fit up to 12 cards, and there's room for cash on the back. Then we have The KeyCase. It can hold up to six keys, keeping things nice and organized. There's over 30 different colors With durable materials this could be the last Get the best offer by going You can save up to 40% That's Ridge.com/JaredOwen. All right, let's dive in now (majestic music) Most people today are familiar with the story of the Titanic. But just in case, let's The Titanic was built in Belfast, Three years later, the ship was finished and ready for its maiden voyage, or in other words, first Most passengers set sail Then it picked up a few more passengers in France and then Ireland. Then finally, we set sail But of course, the Titanic never makes it. Four days into her journey, she hits an iceberg in It only takes about two and a half hours for the ship to sink. There were only enough lifeboats for about half of the people. However, these lifeboats Sadly, only about 700 people survived. Now, here we are, more and this is still the most The Titanic was referred to There were three of them, sometimes referred to as sister ships. The Titanic sunk because of an iceberg, and then the Britannic in World War I. The Olympic, however, had of about 24 years. All three sister ships Just a few details were When they finished building the Titanic, it was the largest ship in the world, being only a little bit The ship was 269 meters long. But to put this in perspective, to the world's largest cruise ship today. (soft music) The full name is the RMS Titanic, and RMS stands for Royal Mail Ship. And in fact, yes, the Titanic did indeed carry plenty of mail on board. I'll show you where a little bit later. Let's look at some of the details on the outside of the ship. The front of the ship is called the bow. The back of the ship is called the stern. Then instead of using left and right, they use port and starboard. Now, these are general sailing terms that are still in use today, On the ship, we have four funnels. Coal is burned down below and the smoke comes up the funnels. Only three of the funnels are used. The fourth one was added mainly for looks. The builders thought it with a fourth one. However, this fourth for ventilation down below. These two large poles are It was used as supports and also to carry the flags. Towards the front of the ship, you can see the crow's nest. This is where the lookout only a little bit too late. The area in the front is You can see the massive chains at the very front. Going to the back of the ship, this area is called the poop deck. And, no, this has nothing It originated from the Latin word, puppis, which literally means stern of the ship. So there you go, poop deck. I'm still getting used to the name, but that's what they called it. This raised part is It was used by the crew into the harbor. The Titanic also had several to help with loading and There's also more cranes The Titanic had three massive propellers underneath the water. For comparison, here's The propellers are powered by We'll learn about how these This is the rudder used to steer the ship. The ship was designed and That means no computers, This was all designed by hand. To me, that's incredible The Titanic had 10 decks inside. The very top deck is called the boat deck. Then below, they labeled the decks with the letters A through G, but each of these decks so you could call it A B Deck or Bridge Deck, and so on. Then for the bottom two, and the Tank Top. This area has a lot of the Passengers are not allowed down here. Let's see this from another point of view. Let's cut the ship right down the middle and see what this looks like. (singer vocalizing) A few things to point out, you can see how they to the boilers. They take the smoke and Then, just like we talked about earlier, that fourth funnel isn't really needed. However, it still to the decks below. The first class passengers a forward grand staircase The forward grand staircase Directly in front of it Then we have the aft which doesn't go down quite Then here we have the staircases for the second class passengers, and then the staircase for in the very back of the ship. This was all close to This is why third class as steerage passengers. So cabins for the third towards the lower decks. And here's where the second And the first class passengers got to stay on the highest decks and So hopefully that gives you an idea of the layout of the ship. Now, let's go through each deck, starting with the boat deck. (rhythmic music) It gets its name because this is the deck where the lifeboats were stored. They split the deck space As a second class passenger, the view of the ocean would For the first class passengers, most of the deck doesn't have lifeboats. The builders wanted to make sure that the first class passengers This was one of the didn't have enough lifeboats. So the ship had 20 lifeboats in total, enough for about half The idea at the time was that If an accident happened, these lifeboats would only be needed to over to a rescue ship. As we all know, not was a very bad idea. Each lifeboat is hanging If and when it's time the davit is swung out, fill and then lower it into the water. (light airy music) Up towards the front of This is the control center for the ship. This area is the wheel house, which is a good place to There are two wheels to And then this is the They use these to communicate The bridge officer rotates the handle to whatever speed they want to go, and then the engineer moves his handle to confirm that they got the order. Behind this area is where so they could be close to the bridge. This is the captain's quarters, some of the officers' quarters, and an officers' smoke room. This is the Marconi Wireless Room. This is where they use Morse code to communicate with Here's some rooms for just a few of the first class passengers. Here's the oh-so famous Grand Staircase. It has skylights up above during the day. This is the gymnasium, with various pieces of Here's the officers' mess, and the engineers' smoke room. At the very back is the which leads down below. So that's the boat deck, the Underneath is A Deck, also Plenty of covered areas to walk with amazing views towards the ocean. There are first class ladies' lavatory here, and gentlemens' lavatory here, the grand staircase, and of course some exits to Here's the first class and the first class lounge, the aft grand staircase, two more first class rooms, and then the first class smoke room. This is where the men would The last is the Veranda which served refreshments for This is B Deck, also Towards the front of the ship, We saw this earlier in the video. And then this is the center section. Most of this is taken Plenty of access to the gentlemens' and ladies' lavatories. Some of the first class rooms actually have their own These are the parlour suites, It's about as nice as you This is the first class boarding entrance. At the dock, this is where would come aboard the ship. Here's the elevators and both the forward This is the galley, to prepare food, the A la Carte Restaurant, These were luxury dining This back area here is for Stairways here, and then the second class smoke room. And as part of the B Deck, you have the poop deck in the very back. This was used as a third class promenade. That means we have the second class promenade, and That way, everyone had Okay, C Deck, also known This is the highest from the front of the ship Starting at the very where some of the crew Then the open deck right here, they call this the well deck. And most of the space here is taken up by first class rooms. The lavatories are here. And there's even a barbershop here. This is the maids and valets' saloon. It's where servants of The second class stairs here, and the second class library here. Then we have the other well deck, and the third class smoke room, the third class general room, and then the third class stairs, which lead to the decks down below. In the very back, this and then the two steering engines. These engines were used to move the gear, which then rotates the The steering engines are that we saw earlier on the bridge. On occasion, they can on the docking bridge up above So that was C Deck. Now let's move on down below to D Deck, also known as the Saloon Deck. Up at the front, you have These men worked with the boilers at the very bottom of the ship. This is the firemen's stairs. These extend all the way The third class covered promenade, lots of walking space here, more first class rooms, another first class first class reception room, and the first class dining saloon. There were some fancy This area is where a lot of the food was stored and prepared. This is the hospital with a second class dining saloon, second class rooms, and third class rooms in the very back. Now let's move on to E Deck, This had a lot more including engineers, cooks, stewards, waiters, seamen, and trimmers. This is called the crew alleyway, or another name was the Scotland Road. It was kind of the main corridor that crew members could use. Here's the third class third class rooms, and the third class lavatory. More first class rooms And the E Deck was the lowest deck that you could take the grand staircase and also for the elevators. Second class rooms here and third class rooms here. Notice how this deck is low enough that we're starting to This is F Deck, also (singer vocalizing) More crew members sleep up front here. Here's third class rooms, the swimming pool. Titanic was one of the first ocean liners to offer a swimming pool. This is the Turkish bath, which provided luxury bath services for first class passengers. Third class dining saloon, third class pantry, galley, and other areas to prepare food, more rooms for crew members, second class rooms here, and third class rooms here. This is G Deck, also This is the last deck that and the last deck to have Here's rooms for crew members, some third class rooms, post office, first class baggage, and this is the squash racquet court. It's a game similar to racquetball. Now we're starting to see I'll explain this once we get The saloons, restaurant, and so things like fruits, At the very back is more room This is the Orlop Deck. Notice how it only has deck and very back of the ship. Lots of room to store cargo at the front. First and second class baggage here, and the mail room is here. Again, more space for Refrigerated cargo and And a tiny space here for even more cargo, lots of cargo, all right. This is the Tank Top, the At the front of the ship is Just kidding. There's more cargo here, perfect space for this kind of thing. The firemen's stairs lead This is the firemen's passage. It allowed direct access Okay, this is where things The boilers, these burn for the ship's engines. The Titanic has six boiler rooms, so boiler Room 1, Boiler Room 2, and then 3, 4, 5, and Boiler Room 1 has five This means you can only put coal into one side of the boiler. Boiler Room 2 through 6 so coal can go into both Coal bunkers are placed So these were filled with coal before they left for their journey. Working in the boiler It was hot, and humid, and The firemen were the crew of keeping these boilers fed with coal. Let's take a look inside The coal goes in through here, and the fire will heat the water, which will generate steam. This will also produce smoke that travels through the smoke tubes and then up through the which then goes to one of the The steam that gets produced towards the back of the ship. It takes as much as 24 hours so they have to start preparing long before the ship This steam makes it all Inside of this room are two These engines were three stories tall. Even by today's standards, Inside of each engine, Inside of each cylinder is a piston. The steam comes in and pushes This happens over and over. All four cylinders working together turn the shaft down below. Each shaft goes out through and connects to the propellers. Don't forget, there's a third but this one is powered Leftover steam from the goes to the next room, which has the low pressure turbine engine. The steam is used to which then turns the third So the outside propeller by the reciprocating steam engines, and the center propeller is powered by the low pressure turbine engine. The leftover steam from the turbine engine goes to the condensers. This turns the steam into water again, where it can then be Freshwater was stored in large tanks here. This could be used as drinking This is the electric engine room. There are four electric to make electricity for the entire ship. There were also two backup On the night the Titanic sank, This area of the ship didn't take on water until the very end. The electricians kept these motors running as long as possible to keep the lights on. They were heroes. The Titanic had a system which made 16 watertight compartments. If the ship was damaged one of these compartments, into any of the others, or The watertight bulkheads on the Titanic. For example, there are between every coal bunker. But the crew members need these bulkheads. That's why they used watertight doors. Normally, they remained open. But in an emergency, they could be closed in just a few seconds. These watertight compartments to have made the ship unsinkable. When the Titanic hit the iceberg, it scraped along the Many of the forward It proved to be too much, and the Titanic was doomed to sink. My name's Jared. I create 3D animations to show Click the cards to watch another video or click here to subscribe. Thanks for watching, and