Their aircraft will work to intercept. Luhansk-1, Luhansk -1, all call signs, Danger from air. Closer to the shelters. Here we go! A hit! Oh! What's this? Clear. Oh Lord, something like that landed Fire! Here's body number 445; the rope and noose are tightened Pedal to the floor! Speed up, go, go! Speed up, come on, go! Strong outcomings. Very close. Are these outcomings from them? Quickly! Quickly! This is Kharkiv. We used to know it as the largest city a center of culture and education. Now we know Kharkiv as a hero city. A year has passed since the end the great Slobozhan counteroffensive. This story is not only about Kharkiv These are our tricks. Courage. Speed. In 5 days we did what And of incredible scale. The effect of this offensive was such that And how did it all start? A lot of time has passed since February 24, 2022 and only today, for the first time, we can tell and show how the full-scale invasion of Kharkiv region has started. Russians' breakthroughs into the city, battles on the ring road, shelling of Saltivka - all this happened later. And on February 24 at exactly 5 a.m. a missile hit the air defense control We are entering the heart, the control center. Such a bunker where everything is very reliable, everything is underground, everything is concreted, This tells us about the the bunker capacity. This reminds me of those doors that we saw in the military unit where the nuclear forces of the former Soviet Union once were based. Please meet Vadym Volodymyrovych Syniavskyi, Head of the control center. You were present during the hit. Good afternoon. Exactly. We all knew that if, God forbid, war started, the first thing we would do was hide in a bunker. We were 100% sure that the bunker itself would withstand missile attacks and artillery fire. We are entering the air defense command post, a historical place and, unfortunately, here you can see what lethal weapon the Russians use. At first, the enemy always tries to seize dominance in the air. They launch missile attacks on airfields, air defense command posts and anti-aircraft missile complexes. At 5:05 a.m. the shelling of the On February 24, 2022 the hit was right here. And this was such a missile that hit through the bunker and, unfortunately, destroyed the air defense here and people died. The first missile hit the vehicles park. All the boxes, all the premises were The second missile hit the command post. It was shaking a lot. The ceiling began I was very scared. I clearly remember that I bent down And after the third explosion there was already a breakthrough in the operating zone. It felt like everything was in a slow motion. Darkness, ringing in my ears, I was falling to the floor for a very long time. I fell and was thrown 5 meters to the other end of the hall. The light immediately disappeared, The blast wave was so strong that when we entered these premises, And it's even hard for me to imagine Here are the walls and they were covered Usually, you get used to the fact that while a concussion blood just flows from your ears. And here the blast wave to the witnesses, people's Unfortunately, people died there And how many people have died? One of them was a conscript soldier. He was standing right under it, right He stayed there until the end, even when the shelling began, he did He was ready to complete the task And here, by the way, there is even a date - 02/24/2022, cause it was actually a normal working day. Yes, everyone was on a combat duty. It was normal working day, not even a routine... Everyone was waiting. We were We were waiting in the fields, air defense units were waiting here. Before the missiles hit, have you seen During the battle first hours, that we saw almost nothing. That is, there was a white screen It was very difficult to find a target on it. The last log entry is 5:10 a.m., it seems like it. 5:10 a.m. In fact, 5 minutes before Most likely, the person who wrote it died. Or received some injuries. Let's hope that he survived. What is the fate of the person who and what kind of records were these? Most likely, this log was kept by an He is alive and healthy, today he It was an underground command post and from above it looked just like a lawn. And they hit by the missile exactly that was above the command post. So, we can see the grass, the horizon and only here we can see the hole from the very first missile hit, which destroyed the bunker, killed people and destroyed air defense. There are concrete floors down there, a thick layer of soil, concealed with grass. In order to make such an exact hit it was necessary to perfectly know, and understand that this missile will hit Quite a piece of work. They knew exactly where the regiment This building was built during Russia had the plans and a layout, it was somewhere in the archives in Moscow. And here from below are the fragments We'll come up here, I'll take a piece Time will pass and we will pull out this Yes, this is a historical sample, this is Here is a part of the casing. This is the element of that missile. Here is its diameter which was Lethal weapon. Most likely, these were Kalibr missiles. The command post was designed of a nuclear bomb at a distance of 5 km. In principle, the missile warhead should to hit through the command post, two hits in one place, we've got what we've got. I'll tell you frankly that 90% How many? 90% practically. I then contacted the brigade commander of the 302nd anti-aircraft missile regiment and asked: &quot;Where is the air defense? And he said: &quot;I have practically Almost all of it.&quot; But he still had S-300 missiles, I won't tell how many. So we still managed to put them on combat duty and ensure that the Russian aircrafts did not continue to raid the peaceful Encroachments on Slobozhanshchyna And if we are talking about Kharkiv with a large number of active high-tech enterprises, a powerful cultural center. And of course, getting such a center This would have enormous moral significance. Both for them and for us. On the first day, it was at night of February 23-24, I was in my office. I went out of the office down Intensive missile and artillery attacks against the air defense system of Ukraine began. Enemy columns crossed the border and were moving in the direction of Kharkiv. What plans did the enemy have for Kharkiv? How did they plan to take it? It was planned to enter with a solemn march. Quickly, boldly and with from within and rapid advance of They did not plan to destroy Kharkiv. Easy peasy, do you remember how they... They were moving at ease. They have They were moving, not dispersing, not firing, but randomly shooting wherever they could. They did not think that there would They were just moving on. They were all sure that they would enter the city and work That is, according to their plan, They were supposed to be met and only some individuals could shoot somewhere in thier direction. But what is an individual? Whose failure is this on the Russian side? Their agents, intelligence? 2 weeks before all these events, there was an interesting meeting, at which it was once again discussed whether everything was ready. And there was some uncertainty about the fact that everyone was waiting for Russian soldiers there so much. And the question was raised, where all the funds has been spent At the next meeting, everyone said that everything was ready there, That is, all the funds that Russia allocated for informational preparation... They were stolen. A bit of them was spent for but for everything else - well, I am sorry. Citizens of Kharkiv have behaved and all took up arms. Everyone began to gather quickly and And that's it, the work began. I commanded to fire for effect. The task was to restrain it. They did not expect resistance. They thought that they would enter Kharkiv and would be greeted with flowers and pies. No, it won't be like that. And citizens of Kharkiv defended their city. And this made them very angry. At 5:05 a.m., the command post was We began the evacuation. We joined the 22nd battalion of the 92nd brigade. We reported that there was an underground protected control that it was hit through, but there were still some rooms there We were there in April and filmed the 92nd Brigade disposition. Now everyone has left and there is no one there. This premise was a real finding for us, it was very cool. From here we manage the platoons The personnel are located in these premises. There are premises for ammo and food storage. That is, everything for our life support Good bunker. Kitchen. Everyone cooks for themselves The enemy is theoretically there, at that greenery. Using optics, they also spot us perfectly. Yes. We need to pass quickly In here, in this tube. My friend, please meet! Are they shelling the city now? Yeah! You can hear it. What is your name? Dima. From here everything is at your fingertips. We can see the front line. It becomes clear from this observation point that here they are, quite close, Correct, it's a little more than a kilometer. They understood that Kharkiv was a big city and it could not be that it was prepared At least, people there were determined to hold on to their last breath. Therefore, they abandoned the idea And they tried to block it from all sides, to make it like the blockade of Leningrad in the World War II. In fact, detour was a contact line in most cases. Sometimes, they crossed the ring road and we've been pushing them already Now we are driving along the ring road. It was the front line. There was a Russian column here And even now when you are driving, you feel that the wheels are on which there was a You know, like a washboard. And now we can already see the first And the distance is horrifying. You see the building which it is located only 160 meters from the road. And Russian soldiers were already here. That is, the war was just inside The task was only one: starting from from the outermost buildings of the city, they should become a citadel for the city defence. So, we are driving up to the intersection, where there were a lot of Russians on February 24. And on February 25 there were lots of their bodies. On February 24, 7 tanks, a BM-21 battery and two MT-LBs were destroyed at the crossroads. This significantly reduced the degree Kharkiv has been resisting. What was the rate of menpower When they were trying to enter the city. In terms of military vehicles, they In terms of personnel, they outnumbered us 10 times. Oh! The hit. Is this position risky? Can they aim here? They can see this tower perfectly from the drone. Well, you see how many funnels are here. Even if you look at the green field, you Yeah, exactly! Look, the green field. Over there, you see, tank hit. There you can see where the tank hit, And they didn't hit the tube, did they? The tube - there... So, the tube withstands. Well, the metal is rugged, so it's reliable. Tell me everything that is happening here. But I'm also just mobilized, I've been fighting for a little more than a month. And what were you before the war? Retired. I have been working at the mine, so I'm already retired. I retired at the age of 50. At what mine? Lisova mine. Chervonohrad city. And how does it feel after working at the mine? I haven't been working for a year, I was retired. I enjoyed life. And now I'm here. The spirit at the front line, as you can see, is high. After February 24, they tried to approach with their sabotage and reconnaissance groups. On February 27, at 5:30 a.m., two sabotage groups broke out from On February 27, early in the morning, our crew was driving at Mitsubishi Outlander and we saw that a Tiger was standing in the center of the city at Sumska Street. The Tiger is a Russian armored vehicle. That is, the Russians were already Correct. The crew and I then looked we did not understand whether our but we quickly changed our direction. We saw that this Tiger was starting to follow us. There were the Tigers, two tanks that we saw, tented Kamaz trucks with personnel. You see the Russian regular army. What were your first thoughts? Because you are in a had a gun with you at Yes, we had AKs. And here is an armored vehicle with On the one hand, you have to react, but on the other hand, you have to be alive to react. I'll probably say this: "I didn't think for because I understood that there was there was one Tiger behind us, and it was necessary to from there, move They dispersed throughout the city to show the whole world that Kharkiv The command was to maintain their positions before the entry of the main forces Here, my friends, is the historical place, the school building where the first big battle took place. A column of Russians who entered the city, mistakenly thinking that there would be bread and salt and a warm welcome. But they were wrong. They were met and they were hidding in this school The battle lasted 8 hours a nd they refused to surrender and stay alive. They were ready for anything. The training of these people, these No one was taken prisoner there. No one. They were all eliminated. All of them. I see that life is slowly coming back in here. There is even some angel over there, And I remember April, March 2022, and it was scary, streets were desolated. In its own way, the city lives and works, there are even traffic jams in some places. People came back to Kharkiv and yes, At that time, it was extremely important to receive very accurate information about the enemy location. Here we see a photo from a drone. We see the position, where the tank, the armored vehicle, the observation how they are located, where the personnel is, where they hide the equipment - Everything is known perfectly and it is possible to aim with the artillery everywhere accordingly. And with your quadcopter that was shooting, you can adjust the artillery. Aerial reconnaissance is 30-50 km into the depth of the enemy's defensive positions. Based on the information we receive from the locals, from deserters, from prisoners of war, we then confirm it with drones. Rustam Kerymych, deputy company commander, he processes this information and finds details that no one pays attention to. Camp cot The trench is dug either for observation And the second one, concealed with branches That is, you being a recce man, can see all this concealment. Here we see a photo from a drone. A road, trucks. Their checkpoint, right? Correct. At this checkpoint they have a concealed grenade launcher and anti-aircraft gun. They conceal everything properly, so you might not even notice it with the naked eye. So, the white rag... It is simply determined by the silhouette. Well, and according to some data as well. Perhaps we will destroy it, perhaps we will privatize it, so to speak. We need to resupply after all. You can immediately say that this He holds the weapon correctly; it rests on his shoulder but not on the hip. You mean he wants to shoot down the drone, right? Correct. He immediately understood that As we can see from the photo, He couldn't. Oh, the phone. This is a strategic one. It is not being tapped. What did they tell you on the strategic phone? That the enemy's ammunition is exploding. Most likely, after the shelling, the This is still from the Soviet Union times, right? It is coms within your complex, right? In principle, it is. It is very interesting First, it cannot be Electronic warfare or and secondly, it is a very reliable thing. And it is convenient because you can And by 2 Idiot you mean two idiots? Yes. Well, you cannot call them human beings My friends, here is the real Designation: two idiots. Which means two Russian soldiers. I remember very well when your and we were watching them, and they Such an unusual feeling. And I was very impressed that you had already had an anti-drone gun then. It's just to conceal, even if they see it from the drone... And how does it operate? It interrupts frequencies, a drone loses control. The program failures and it lands. There is some thing like a radar, you now it is turned on, the sight is aimed, and you pull the trigger. And the drone loses control. Such a drone-gun. Anti-drone gun. We keep tracking, right? Yeah, to see the drone and catch it. Yes, and pull. And where to pull? The trigger is the same, isn't it? It is. You can pull it, there's nothing scary in it. Oh, the sound has broken. Has the sound broken? Was there any interference? Can I try again? Now let's look via the camera. I will pull and say. 1-2-3-4...10. The sound interrupts, right? Frequencies? It interferes. When you shoot down a drone, do you You pull and hold and here you have already a battery Whose battery works longer, right? Now I'm rewatching the video and I couldn't even hold it properly, I held it wrong and aimed. That is a gimmick. And how about the soldiers? At the beginning of the war, there were about 5 drone guns in the brigade units. Each unit had an electronic warfare section. And there was the anti-drone gun operator. They ran with guns and shot down quadcopters. What is the statistics? How many drones? He shot down 8 drones Already 8, right? Right. Well, it is not yet known how No kidding! The drone-gun. Here are the strong outcomings. Where is this? Get inside! Very close. Outcomings are just nearby. Doggie, what do you think? Do you remember that we met by chance in April in the basement of some building? You are sitting in the room and you hear the sound: Phew! Phew! Hits, S-300 hits into the city, artillery, When I came to Kharkiv at the beginning of April, I was surprised because Kharkiv was There were literally no cars or people in the city. And when we reached the center The city was under the fire almost from all sides. Grad, Smerch, Uragan MLRS. Both There was no place in the city where It was impossible to drive through the city If they could use their nuclear weapons, if the world did not react, they would At any moment there could be shelling and people could be injured. The enemies made people hide underground. There was simply no other way to survive. You can see how many people are in the subway. This is because the shelling is going all the time. People settled here a long time ago. If you go to a subway station, you could which was specific at each station. It was a separate world. We saw that there were so many children! And they all live with adults on the floor. And we have a unit that deals with children. So, we made a decision to send school They created mini-holidays, some kind of entertainment to these kids. We are the representatives of the patrol We have volunteers together with us who will now show you a certain program. Okay, come on! One, two... Let's support the team! Well done! You missed. Two throws each. Come on, carefully. You won! Congratulations! And now our knees. Today, a gentleman celebrates ? his birthday right in the subway. What is your name? Bohdan, dear, how old are you today? Three? How long have you been here in the subway? From the first day of the war. That is, you don't get out of the subway What would you like to wish to your son? The war to end. So that he would never experience such The thing he is experiencing on his We remember the shelling of the center. How the Freedom Square was hit, how the Barabashov market was shelled, how they destroyed the Feldman eco-park. Then we even saw a monkey that Here we are, driving along our native Kharkiv and everything around is broken, we are in a pickup truck, with weapons, When we drove like even imagine that such We arrived at the car center. There's Here it is! Hello, sweety. Here you go, you haven't Come here, kitty, kitty, kitty! Poor monkey. If it weren't for our soldiers who feed What goals did they choose in the city? The first thing was the TV tower. The second thing was the dormitory where they hit, where military families and even cadets died. The mission they had was to destroy the infrastructure of the city completely. Therefore, they were shelling everything that provides the city with electricity, water, they were shelling boiler rooms. It is clear that this is psychological Well, in another way just to destroy the city and that's it. They did not get into t he city, so it must be leveled down. So not only the military but the civilians as well would feel the drop of the morale, so the last would beg sooner so that it woudn't In practice, they did not hit where and they hit peaceful houses, kindergartens, libraries, 9-storey buildings where civilian people lived at that time. But the residential area, Northern Saltivka, got the most. Look, Kharkiv is simply on fire. Kharkiv is really burning. This district is actually completely destroyed. Despite the obvious things that are happening and the fact that does not require any proof, here we see - a residential fire. We see the shelling You can see the ring road from here and you can see that shelling towards from the side that is occupied by the Russians. But they call it a fake. They say: Do you know how I feel right now? It is very unusual to see Saltivka so alive. In my memory, it remained desolated, empty, on fire. Dmytro Komarov! Hi! How are you? Everything is fine. Everything is fine. Life is going on. Everything is good. Are you originally from Saltivka? Yes, we left on February 24th, How does it feel? I just can't believe that people are finally back. We drove through here, the road was blocked, it was written "No Civilians Allowed." Every time you look at the windows, the windows are lit up in the evening. Because before it was dark all the time. It's become more lively now. Yes, it was sort of a ghost district. Can I chat with you? Hello. Hello. What's your name? I'm Irina. We explore how Saltivka has changed after the beginning of full-scale war Now it's much easier living here, of course First of all, public transport is somewhat And before for 2 months or 3 months There's already power, gas, water. You can even afford to spend the night here. How are you getting ready for winter? In the winter? It's still impossible for me to live in my The workers are doing something, but still I do not know whether we will move in there or not till the end of the year. I don't think so, I doubt. I love the neighborhood, I'm drawn I don't know, I want to come back here. How are you doing? We're alright. What's your name? This is Margaryta, Arina and Rehina. Arina and Rehina. I'm Dima. How is life here? It's fine. It's cool. We eat ice cream, do mugs, play sports. The house is not destroyed, everything is fine? We have cold water. Water, power. We have windows. Except for the hot water. Girls, what do you dream about? I want for the war to end. And a kitten. I want a dog I'd rather have a kitty cat. I want a kitty cat. For the war to end, and a kitten. For that war to end, and a dog. For the war to end and a kitty. The kids nowadays dream of quite simple things. All these super strong concrete slabs are on the ground, the car that was here, was crushed. Look, the slabs here are made of reinforced concrete. Meaning, how strong the impact must have been that the reinforced concrete slabs were torn out. What was it from the point of view to simply destroy a large residential district with 16-story buildings where 400,000 civilians live? This was the beginning of the invasion, they had a lot of ammo. They used them without problems They don't care. Oh, let's destroy a house. The tanks simply shot down those 9-story buildings that were within their reach. When we went to their locations, there were more vodka bottles than ammunition there. Basically, when the tankers got hammered, they went shelling 9-story buildings just for fun... When Ukrainers captured Russian they used to say the same thing 'Well, we got drunk and drove off. Bloody hell.... Take a look what does There building is simply gone. What is it, what do you think? It was an air bomb. All the apartments simply fell down Here they are. Of course, there is no Again we are talking about whether to go You must go. Or to hope that a double wall or Here you are, please. No wall would Good afternoon. Hello, Komarovskiy. Komarovskiy is a doctor. Yes, very nice to meet you. We've only seen you on TV, and now Are you from Saltivka? And you already live there? We have been living here since January 16. Haven't you seen how I No. He was standing here, bloody bastard! He said: &quot;Do you live here?&quot; I said: &quot;And this is, he says, the shot down Russian The pilot who bombed Kharkiv, right? We were interrogating first prisoners the head of the garrison, we were It was surprising that he was prepared for that. That he could be captured. I said "Where did you launch your air strikes?" He replied "I bombed forests and fields." I said "Well, then they will take you what you did in the city of Kharkiv and how many people died here because of your flight." Everything looks different from the sky. When these buildings i t was all this man's it is perceived in a completely different way. Well, I was ready to kill him, you know. And my hand wouldn't tremble. For those children and for everyone in the world. Hello Hey, don't cry. You are a Russian jackal! Why is he standing here? He must be hung. Do you even know why you came here? No. Don't you know? What did we do wrong to you? What did I do to you, for example? What are you doing to us? I heard the following phrase from "We are tasked with a mission I smiled and answered him "The warrior who will wipe us out My granddaughter was making fried potatoes. And she looked out of the window and, good God, she saw some hecking thing flying It collapsed in front of her. It was horrifying. There was no strong blast but the dust Everyone's filming this house for some All the houses are wrecked. Yes, all the houses are wrecked. Well, it's tourists film the house, They take pictures here, yes. This is a photo zone. You can't take any funny photos, smile It is impossible, the death is there. Are there still...? Yes, there are people lying there. Oh my God, what a nightmare! This is really not the place for photo sessions. This is disrespectful to the memory Moreover, considering that the bodies I remember the exact place when we received a signal that a drone was flying over us. Perhaps you remember the footage UAV! It was extreme then. I just can't believe that cars drive here now. I remember that the territorial if we leave, they will just hit the car wash, because the drone will see that the military is there and they will destroy it. Fortunately, it is intact. Can I come to you? Super! Carpets are being washed which Burnt carpets are being carried here Carpets are being carried here, right? Victoria I rent it. Yes, it was. We are forced to admit that we were I know. Fortunately, the car wash was intact. When we came here, there wasn't even a gate... And there a car was hanging just in the air. How did it happen? There was a hit. It's just an explosive Here was the car, right? Hanging, yes Any plans? It's alright, we're working. bring Saltivka back to Let everything be revived as soon as Let it be. And this is an example of how it is being restored. If you look from above, you can see the new bricks. It was all blown up. Now it has been restored. And also on the side we see fresh concrete; the whole part was also rebuilt. Just a piece of the house. And now the windows will be changed. That's how life is restored. Hello. What's your name? What work are you doing now? We're installing windows. Five crews are coming in, we'll put up Here we can see a school that was At that time, in the Russian media there was a lot of information that they were destroying alleged military bases in schools. I went to the schools in Saltivka specifically. IT classroom. You can see when there was a lesson here, the last time the kids were studying. 22.02.2022. I feel like I'm in Pripyat (Chornobyl). Even before the war started, I traveled and made reports, materials, went to abandoned schools, abandoned apartments, houses, looked at these dates, which are preserved somewhere, mentioning year 1986. And it was truly horrifying. The life here had stopped recently. The dishes were left. The food for kids was cooked so they They had already set the table, I did not see any military bases or facilities there. School classrooms and libraries And void. We can spot Tolstoy, Dostoievskyi, Those writers they call their own. And yet they bombed this school, this class. They thought that there was some kind of hot spots of resistance in there, and now we will destroy it. They threw rocket artillery at it, at that district. Oh, it's stored at the school... What's that? Grad MLRS shrapnel. It's not the biggest one yet. Hitting schools with Grad MLRS... By the way, why school is a bad spot for a base? Soviet-built schools, which are mostly located in Kharkiv, are not suitable for deploying manpower and troops there. They are not suitable at all. Because they can be penetrated by any projectile, more or less of 120 mm caliber It penetrated the roof completely. You'd think it'd be impossible to It get's penetrated like a breeze. The smallest hit would result That is why schools were always out How do you defend such a large There were 400,000 citizens there before the full-scale invasion. It's very easy to defend. The better you are The battle was fought in trenches that That is our battle wall. From here, in case there would be we have two zeroed points for RPKs and hand machine guns, automatic rifles. That is a TDF position. I saw soldier mannequins with dummy assault rifles. I personally saw how wooden machine guns Let's just regard them as our &quot;under-soldiers". Decoys. Each squad came up with their own Some called it Zhorik, others addressed it Vania. Let me tell you this, such tricks are How successful is it? Russians got most of their intelligence from aerial or space reconnaissance. Obviously, it is quite difficult it is a real person or a mannequin looking from above. So you are saying that it confuses the enemy, right? If the enemy is sniper is aiming, to It screws them up in its own way, yes. Let's come to our place. Good day. This is your base, right? Here we have two spots to rest. That's our kitchen. We've got a kettle in here, to drink How many of you dwell here? So far, 12 people. Maybe 15. Overall, we can Overall, we can accommodate up to 20 people. The guys, who were defending the aforementioned Saltivka had to live in the basements Unfortunately, nothing has changed since The question 'Why in residential areas?' rises. How do we explain to the public that I'm surprised that in our society we According to this logic, then we should leave The military arrived somewhere, someone, some spy gave the coordinates - And civilians are always horrified, that wherever the military is, it should hit there. This is one of the psychological stories. Russia specifically does this in order to break this fist between civilians and the military, to say: &quot;here we shoot only at the military.&quot; Sometimes we don't have a choice. We need to defend in those places so that the enemy doesn't pass through and capture our city. Any city. So we have little choice, you get it. You can stand in a field, and and they will definitely accomplish No, this is an absolutely flawed logic. Any military science in any country in the world always has chapters on tactics in textbooks, they may sound a little different, but they are called something like This is war, there is no other way. That's one of our fighters, Malysh. My call-sign is Malysh (en. 'Lil One') Malysh. I'm a grenade launcher operator. This is an ATGM, an anti-tank guided missile. This is an AAWS, an anti-tank missile system, into which it is loaded and fired. This is an RPG-7 grenade launcher. We are ready to face any enemy with We will give as good as one gets, a fitting rebuff. The first battle we took part in, we had It is little or nothing, If we take the first days of May and even These were different troops altogether. And if we look back a month later, the equipment appeared after In the battles, they tried not to hit They hit the tanks only on the rollers That's a kind of lendlease, isn't it? The coercive one, yes. Let's show the civilians who stayed here. How they live, what they eat, how they cook and what conditions they are in at the moment. Can you imagine, amidst the ruins Hello. What's your name? My name is Olga Anatoliievna. Olga Anatoliievna, it's a pleasure. I'm Zoia. I'm Zinaida. I see you're cooking here now. It's our evening tea. You've had the kitchen here for whole 2 months? Not really. We're probably here for about 3 weeks, right? We have no power, no water. That's why we found a solution to our problems. Have you had any thoughts of leaving this place? You know, we thought about it at first. But then we realized that all our They start traveling and some of them do go back. They go back, they return again. So we stayed in our place, that's all. Grads are being launched out. I can tell you're not reacting to the It was extremely dreadful at first. Now we're used to hearing it. We just I've been living in Kharkiv for over 30 years. I came to study here. Where did you come from? I came from Buryatia. I'm from Ulan-Ude. I enrolled the institute, I came to study. Then I got married, had children, raised them. And now I'm being liberated from The Russian Federation hoped that the Russian-speaking population, would probably accept the invasion of Ukraine and support this Putin's terrorist regime. They actually believed that Kharkiv was a Russian city just waiting for 'liberators'. This is the real truth. I believe that Kharkiv is one of the sincerest Ukrainian cities there is. What are your plans further, if this situation in Kharkiv drags on? Will you be here? How do I know what it will be...? You see, I'm about to be 70 years old. I've accomplished my main mission. I've had my children, I've raised them. I have obtained my experience in this life. I'm cool with whatever is going to happen. I would like to witness our victory. Because otherwise everything will go back, as someone said in Belarus. Was that Lukashenko? It was Lukashenko. He said it was necessary to return everything We have been living without We have changed so much that You see, we've simply changed. Although at first we woke up in a sovereign state; it was awkward. And then everything changed. At least our generation has already adapted. Our generation. And those born and raised in new times... They don't care anymore. They don't care at all. They have two languages to spare. Two, meaning russian and Ukrainian, Just do your best to win. Just do your best, try to win the war. Because, actually, I realize that only the whole world in a joint effort, altogether can make this the russian federation, I think this is the moment when it is It threatens the whole world. Today is April 24, 2022, Easter. We are in the Saltivka residential area, the most shelled area. We see a church with its windows And yet, despite the warnings that shelling is possible, people came to the church because today is a special day. You can see that the entire chapel is Lots and lots of dots, no glass. We noticed that in the first month or even two, people were very afraid of journalists and cameras. They thought that if they were filming, Don't film me, please. Okay. You just say it. Let us know, and we won't be. Don't look for any trickery in us. How is there no trickery? When you leave, it starts, you know? It's a rule. I don't know if it's a coincidence or what. We meaning 'journalists'? Let us be here. We're not going anywhere, we're with you. Let's do it. The priests have arrived. Dmytro Komarov, please, I'm asking Well, you are aware of the overall situation. Any kind of filming could harm both Because the enemy also got information from the news, from other videos posted by people. They also used this information to adjust the point of impact, for example. When will we show it? We won't show that now, I guarantee it. I got it. Okay. Nice to meet you. Thank you. Christ is risen! You are standing empty-handed. Thank you. I've got a little Easter cake as a gift. Christ is risen! Here's an Easter eggie. Thank you very much. In spite of the fact that today there here, in the cathedral, in the area people still came out, blessed Easter bread Easter festivities are always very It's about family, it's about comfort. We understand that people were feeling hopeless, people were in despair. And in such situations, faith It is clear that in difficult situations people always turn to such pillars of support. Internal, moral and psychological. And faith in God is one of these pillars, for some even the most important. Being basically locked at home for so long... Today, thanks to a little lull in the weather, I went to church to get a blessing. You know, there is a silver lining to it all, our troops managed to push They're pushing them back, they are. Yeah. Thanks to them. What kind of russians are them? Fascists didn't bomb churches, Now kindergartens suffer, schools, hospitals. They don't know how to fight. No, they don't. They're barbarians... What they do, bastards. Beasts! I'm speechless. Where do you live? I live in Saltivka. The kids have left. I pity my granddaughters. One is 3 years old, the second is 14. Russians are worse than fascists. It is a worldwide disgrace. In Russia, it is a worldwide disgrace. You are a 10 times greater in potential, are attacking a weak country that, in principle, does not threaten you. You take away their land, kill people. You throw 10-20 missiles and shoot at shops and some shopping centers, just to keep them in fear and tell Russia, if it wants, can attack China. So what? They don't because they might get a sock in the jow. Right. And one could attack Ukraine since Ukraine, so they thought, wouldn't fight back. We're coming to the St. George The shrapnel fragments indicate People take shelter here, people pray here. We work, plant flowers, tidy it up. Yes, I see you have such a magnificent beauty here, flowers, little tulips and daffodils. Here we turn the camera around and there's a direct hit from a mine. We turn the camera around and see a 16-storey building, a direct hit. It's alarming here, you drive here and look around all the time, because it's coming everywhere, at any second. As you can see, it came yesterday, shrapnel shattered the windows. That happened yesterday? That happened yesterday. I thank God I had all the people And this is where the car was hit, thrown off. It belongs to the worshipers, right? Yes. And then the next day something Into the same shell crater? Wait a second, they say a shell Yes, it does. Let's go to the church. People are in the lower part of the temple. We eat there, live there, pray there. You put the beds right there, didn't you? Volunteers bring food, right? Volunteers. About 50 people, since people and from Northern Saltivka come for food. We try not to have long lines, b If there are big lines, as you know, you read the data that the queues get hit. So 1-2 people came, last for 3-4 days, and How many people are permanently 18 people. Come on in. Give me some milk. I'll give some milk, mom. Hello. What's your name? I'm Nina Mikhailovna. And my She's 95 years old. Your mom is 95 years old? So, mom remembers World War II pretty well. What was happening at that time. She does. She remembers very well. And she probably told you about it. And now she has to hide in time, basically. She doesn't believe it. She just doesn't believe it. What war? She hears the shots, of course, and Take care of yourselves, please. Now we'll take some Eastern buns and We only found out through the military They were in the basement for about a week and a half. They were afraid to come out. And we found out they were there, so we started bringing food and supplies. Slowly people started to come back to life. We're walking from the temple and everywhere, every 10 meters there's a crater. Even more than that. Here's another crater. Christ is risen! We've brought you some Easter buns. What's your name? And what's yours? You've been here for....? Two month. We hardly ever leave the basement. I come out when there's a lull. I go upstairs to my apartment. I have a big cat there, waiting for me every day, I bring her some food and talk to her. I have three grown up children. They wanted to pick me up, but they had to go across town, they were from the other end, from Bezliudivka. And &quot;we'll be right there.&quot; I told them not to come here, I don't want them to risk their lives. And they left without me. Then they said many times "Move somewhere, go". I'll be honest with you, I thought about it. But I've gotten so close to these guys, they're like my family. I don't want to leave them. It's the same way my parents keep But what about us? How do we leave her and leave her People who are there can't.... So you've become so close that even You know how we are now? &quot;Love thy neighbor as thyself.&quot; We pray for people to be able to realize and understand what we are losing. We appreciate life, how beautiful, how wonderful it is. We don't go outside because we are afraid. And there's greenery, there's pigeons We bring them crumbs. Leftovers. Crumbles. We don't like sitting here at all. We want to live. You see, we don't want our children to die. The life of a human being is the most The human life. Nothing else has that same value. Neither a car, nor an apartment or money. Just let us live. Christ is risen! Everything's going to be all right. Be well. We know you're always there for us. It's gonna be alright. Easter Day during the war is coming Now, of course, it's too early to say that thank God everything has turned But everyone feared most of all that there would be shelling of places of Fortunately, this did not happen in the morning during the services. But now I want to end this day in You will see that the patrol police are patrolling the streets, not only volunteering in times of war, but also in global missions. Now you're going to see what. Christ is risen! Glory to Ukraine! We have a very responsible mission now. We brought the Holy Fire to Kharkiv. The Holy Fire from Jerusalem! Every year, under normal circumstances, this Holy Fire would arrive by plane, Boryspil airport would receive it, and from Boryspil it would travel around. And scattered. And scattered all over the territory. And here, of course, there was a risk Did you travel to the European border? First, he arrived in Poland, then he was escorted to the border, and we drove him across the country From the Volyn oblast, the patrol police crews took this fire and passed it on to They took it around their region and That is, on the edge On the edge with the oblast, they were And if we talk about the frontline cities, it was our combat groups that were Because we could not send an ordinary Therefore, all the regions, all the cities where we could reach, received this Holy Fire. And now we see that it has arrived, We handed it over to the church. We gave it to the brigade that is We did it for one reason. To bring And I am very grateful that I had such For us, it has become a kind of Not only religious faith, but also faith in resilience, in our people and in our victory. My daughter sent me a very beautiful poem. &quot;We have nowhere to run&quot;. When I read it, I cry all the time. If you want, I will read it. Of course we do. Then I'm sorry, my voice is not quite... I don't have glasses, but I'll read it anyway. I recite it as a prayer. We're choosing life over it all! Not brand-new renovation or iPhones.... An angel whispers: &quot;Don't you cry, hold on...&quot; The joy of hearing a voice over the phone. We're choosing day over it all The happiness of waking up at dawn Don't subdue to laziness over a family call Bad weather doesn't cause you sorrow... We're choosing time over it all A quiet, calm hour, when shelling is none We've been changed so much by the war We forgot what we used to want before... We're choosing night over it all No gunshots, cannons, Grads, We're all trying to help each other. The way it was supposed to be, regards... We're choosing God over it all Within the day, when darkness falls He helped mankind, so we beg, we must In him alone we solely trust In this global sense, why do you think God sent this was upon us all, Why is it given to us? Everything in life happens for a reason. We have redefined, reconsidered all values. We united the people. We established one of the strongest Almost all European countries reckon with us. Because we have proved that we are a country that keeps its word, that can come unite and fight back against any enemy, even the strongest, most insidious In my subjective opinion, Kharkiv Because the defense forces, ordinary citizens, police, volunteers, literally everyone I remember how the military distributed comms, and patrol delivered food. What's in here? We have grandchildren. During the war, the sense of justice You want to do everything, not sleep, There's guys with machine guns And it makes the kids happy! Look how the kids' eyes light up. You can really see that for a while they Whoops! Good job! About the nightmare that is going on in the street Ukrainian children draw us pictures, It really helps the uplift the morale. We keep those since 2014, always where the personnel live and take food, the pics are always there. It is our children from Chernivtsi, who make these for us. It's very heartwarming. My niece It extremely hearwarming to know of them. Then, in spring 2022, Kharkiv lived from air raid alarm to air hiding in the subway, every minute It held on and believed in its defenders. But even then, a huge Slobozhan The event, that will of Kharkiv, but also If Ukraine did not start taking active the Russians would have eventually At the moment there is also... Oh! Hit! Drone! The drone can throw a mine! At the Russian ammunition warehouse... Looted things... Thank God that our soldiers liberated us Historic day. Balakliia was liberated My dear!