- This episode of Basics is sponsored by YouTube Movies and Shows. YouTube Movies and Shows to rent or buy the latest films, from comedies to thrillers You can watch directly on all devices where you already watch YouTube. It's seamless. Check it out now at youtube.com/movies. (upbeat music) (jazzy music) All right, so I'm gonna by shooting myself in the foot a chicken instead of a turkey. If you're feeding one to a much more time and If you're starting today, we're gonna start by dry In other words, we're with kosher salt and then letting it rest uncovered is not only gonna deeply flavor it, it's gonna help dry out the skin which is gonna make it crispier. Then, if you're willing figuratively speaking, you can run your fingers separating them. This is both an opportunity directly on the meat and helps it crisp up even better. It's why Peking duck is so crispy. They inflated like a balloon for several days so the skin can dry out. But even overnight or just a few hours will make a huge difference. Another thing we wanna ready is our stock. If you're like most of us, your own stock from your store-bought stuff quite easily. We're just gonna deeply along with the chicken neck, a little bit of neutral for a few minutes until Then we're gonna add the core the stuff that you normally throw away, two ugliest carrots you've some fresh sage and thyme, if you got it, and then we're gonna add a quart of store-bought turkey stock. It's gonna help bring back some of those Thanksgiving flavors that we're missing with the chicken. I'm also gonna add a and two dried bay leaves. Bring this guy up to a nice gentle simmer, and keep him there uncovered It's gonna leave us with flavorful stock that's gonna Strain out the solids, let it cool. Cover it in plastic wrap and Trust me, this step is worth doing. Another dish that is super easy to make and really worth making from Get yourself a bag of cranberries, and dump it into your Then all you really need to about one cup or five ounces but some very welcome additions might be a couple tablespoons of Grand Marnier, the peel and juice of one large orange, maybe a little knob of fresh Then we're setting this and bringing the whole Reducing the heat to low stirring occasionally and cooking for 15 to 20 minutes until an almost cranberry sauce-like Then we're picking out our inedibles, tasting for seasoning and with water, sugar, salt to a simmer, if you added until you have the cranberry Go ahead and let this cool, cover it, and put it in the fridge Next up a no fuss, no muss, no fuss, apple pie, or more accurately, an apple pie, apple I'm gonna call an apple crisp tart. In a large bowl, we are four ounces of sugar and Tiny whisking until homogenous, 15 tablespoons or 7.5 ounces gently mixing together until it has the consistency of Play-Doh. Nope, not the Athenian Then we're grabbing about and pressing it into a nine pushing and spreading it and up the sides until you've one centimeter thick layer all around. Trim off the tops, make it look pretty and it's time to parbake. You could also use a but it's gonna be harder and you need to be emotionally Whatever your vessel, we're for about 20 minutes or until To the remaining third of the pie dough, we're adding one tablespoon This will turn the mixture rather crumbly and ideally suit it Cover and refrigerate until ready to use. Next up, we're making our pie filling. I've got six large that I'm gonna peel and around their core. This might not be the most efficient way to cut up an apple, but and it's far and away the easiest. We're then slicing those pieces placing it in a bowl and with the remaining apples. If they start to turn brown, with the juice of one lemon, but it doesn't really It's apple pie filling. It's gonna be brown. Moving those into a large bowl, and then, I'm making a mixture of sugar One cup of packed, light brown sugar, two tablespoons of corn starch, And then I'm just kinda Two teaspoons of cinnamon, of ground clove, one half teaspoon of ground cardamom, and then if you've got whole nutmeg, well, you know what they say, once you never go back to not Go ahead and tiny whisk and then add it to the apples, until everybody's evenly coated, and the apples are starting Speaking of juices, and juice of one small lemon. If you don't want your leave out the juice, but you And then, because this as much time in the oven we need to parcook it. Into your very largest saute pan it goes, with three tablespoons of foaming butter, cooking over medium heat until everybody is soft and Get a taste for doneness and Maybe give it a pinch of kosher And then we're letting this covering and refrigerating Last step in the pre-pie which is coming out of the oven, looking nice and golden brown, which one's completely cooled, we can wrap in plastic wrap and until we're ready to use it. For now, it's time to talk stuffing. You can totally buy They're gonna be perfectly with things like Asiago and garlic, which makes them ideal for snacking. But you will find an in your stuffing if you You can use flavorful, You can control their size and consistency and you can flavor them however you like. Cube up a whole loaf of bread into these maybe half inch size cubes, spread them out evenly on and place them in your Mine goes down to 200 degrees Fahrenheit. And then dry them tossing until they are completely dry. If you're doing this the night before, you could just leave and let it stale. Next up, I think we need something green in our Thanksgiving meal, something green, why not In this ingenious method, masterminded by our new kitchen basically we're cutting the about two pounds of brussel sprouts, giving them a toss with a kosher salt, and freshly ground pepper. Make sure that everybody's and then spread them out making sure that nobody's too crowded, and making sure that everybody Then here's the genius part. You guys know how I feel instead of frying it. Well, we're gonna kill roughly 15 birds with one stone by laying half a pound of medium thickness bacon, This can be covered and And then we're gonna bake for about 20 to 25 minutes. It is a perfect invention and Last but not least, we for our stuffing. If you cannot find sage sausage, it's easy enough to approximate. I have here a pound of ground pork, to which I'm going to add a half teaspoon each have and a whole bunch of fresh sage, about two tablespoons' I think the sage is kind all those familiar So do not skip the fresh sage. Mix up, cover and refrigerate And that does it for the stuff that can optionally be done ahead of time. Next up, our Thanksgiving day of to dos. First thing we're gonna and the first thing we need the blessing triad of carrots, and celery. What we're doing here is a a very important ritual on a The more you can chop, your ingredients before So in addition to my half and two ribs of celery, about two tablespoons' along with picking and of fresh thyme. Then we're ready to head where we're gonna heat a in our biggest Dutch oven, and mash up our homemade sort of sausage. We just wanna break it get some decent color on the outside. It's okay if it's still a Then we're fishing it setting it aside and in along with two tablespoons of butter, we're gonna start sauteing our Mirepoix, for maybe five or six minutes and pick up some color. We're also gonna start to in a separate saucepan. Once our vegetables are we're gonna start adding our herbs, one tablespoon fresh thyme, and one crushed clove of garlic I forgot to tell you to prepare earlier. Saute these together for about And then we're gonna with a little bit of our stock. Deglazing just means adding so we can scrape up all the brown stuff off the bottom of the Dutch oven. This is where flavor resides. Then we're gonna add our and I'm gonna add some This is very optional, they have a very mild, sweet flavor, but mostly, it's impressive to say I've got chestnuts in my stuffing. Mix all that together until and then we're gonna along with about half of We want just enough to saturate the bread. So don't add it all at once. Give it a mix, see how it season generously with kosher and add more stock and/or Once you've got it to the we're covering and keeping on our other stuff. This guy can be reheated on the stove top or crisped up in the oven before serving. Next up, it's time to which, as you can see, has been nicely desiccated in the fridge. Now, again, this is totally optional, but if you can find there's never been a better If that's not your bag with a light coating of olive oil. But if it is your bag, give it as generous as possible a rubdown. Next up, for roasting, we First, we're gonna tuck the wing tips underneath the body of the bird. This is going to prevent Next up, we have to for which we normally but I couldn't find mine. So in a pinch, you can actually use gauze, which is just cotton, so in a different shape. Grab yourself a length of it, and tie the legs together. This is gonna help expose to more heat and help We're giving this guy and freshly ground pepper, it's generally not a good because whatever you shove up to 165 degrees Fahrenheit. So why not use some stuff that's going to perfume like a whole head of garlic Last up, we are roughly and retrieving our very into which we're gonna This is a popular method that protects the delicate breast meat while exposing the dark meat to become tender. We're then surrounding the This is gonna help prevent from burning or evaporating. It is then headed into a for about one hour. About halfway through, we're This way. the breast and the skin on top can During its last half hour of cooking, we're gonna add the brussel and prepare our final side dish, some outrageously creamy mashed potatoes. Now I recently did a Basics Click the link in the upper if you wanna see how to make but what follows is a super Here I have roughly two or three pounds of Yukon golds that into one inch cubes, placing or high walled saute pan like this, and covering with cold water. We're then gonna heavily salt this water and bring the whole thing up to the boil. Once the boil is reached, we're gonna cook for 15 to 20 minutes, until the potatoes are completely tender, and can be broken in half without effort when pierced with a piercing object. Go ahead and drain these and where we're gonna place and mix them to help drive Now we're gonna be adding a of unsalted butter to these potatoes. So I'm gonna melt about in a separate pan and crush of garlic, allowing them to one minute until nice and fragrant. Once that's done, we're killing and adding the remaining butter, one cup of room temperature, heavy cream and our sauteed garlic and And with that, we're ready Just mash them up and mix them around until everybody's smooth, Season heavily with and like everything we're tasting for seasoning. We wanna make sure that and/or pepper before it For now, we're gonna cover because our chicken is First thing's first, we're and setting him aside to before carving and serving. Do not cover him with foil. You will ruin his nice crispy skin. Then we are straining which is gonna be mostly fat, but we are taking care to leave all that beautiful brown stuff Set that aside because before we need to prep our dessert. Simply pour the apple top with our crumble, and pop it in for 25 to 30 Meanwhile, over on the stove top, we're building our pan gravy. Make sure you wrap the handle You don't wanna burn your we're adding two tablespoons of butter, with which we're gonna build a roux. I'm adding three tablespoons whisking to combine, and also of our accumulated duck and chicken fat. This is gonna make for an as is our amped up stock. Whisk constantly as we slowly to this mixture, both scraping up all the beautiful brown stuff and preventing any lumps from forming. Just add a little bit at a time, whisking until smooth You might not wanna add all of the stock, if you want a thicker gravy. Once you've added enough we're gonna cook it over medium then season generously making any necessary final adjustments to flavor and/or consistency and set aside our dream gravy for serving. We're on the home stretch now, First off, our brussel sprouts They are nicely browned and Place the brussel sprouts chop up the bacon and top. Simple as that, for the I've ever had my life. Next up, we can optionally which is easier than it sounds and it's much easier If you wanna see in detail how to do this, click the link in the upper but basically, we're just slicing them up and serving them alongside the drums and thighs. Only one final step, finding for our stuffing and plating And there you have it, a simple, entirely from scratch Thanksgiving dinner, totally doable in about four hours, about two hours of which The chicken is moist and The gravy is absolutely the best gravy I've ever had in my life. Potatoes are rich and creamy. The stuffing tastes exactly The cranberry sauce is sweet and tart, and the brussel sprouts are more bacon than they are brussel sprouts. Real quick, I just wanna of today's episode, It's no mystery that I I literally built my career on it. Thanks to this service from YouTube, I can now search for and or movie in the same place There are even free if you're afraid of commitment. So after watching an episode of Binging, head back and search to to see how well I did or to get you in the spirit. You can check out the available at youtube.com/movies. Thank you to YouTube Movies and Shows for sponsoring this video. Oh, whoops. I almost forgot the apple pie. It is best eaten after And I gotta say, this apple of this year's Thanksgiving. It's not the one that we're used to, but that doesn't mean it or warm or comforting. And let's look on the bright side. It's a hell of a lot easier. (light upbeat music)