Meimei's going to work It's great to celebrate Miss Da's work transfer 17 again. Not the kui is my daughter father I'm just turning right You're exaggerating this whole thing. I feel like I'm taking the subway to work. I'll go first. Internship can become a full member without his company's insight. I want to invest them. Hello. I'm your new colleague Also the president's girlfriend, Jiao Jiao Hello, Mrs. President. I'm low-key people You treat me like an ordinary person Women are still strange. Sit down. Okay. My takeout has arrived, please go and get it for me. Why let me go Because I'm the president's wife Didn't you just say you were an ordinary person? I'm just being modest. You're taking it seriously. To be honest Our Zhan Group is about to get the investment of the Shoufujiang family. My dad wants to invest When the time comes, I, the president's wife, will be unattainable. You treat me like an ordinary person is simply more cheap Oh, my God. You should stand up again, but let you play to understand Hey hey hey hey Look at this dish. I think who ate the woman bullied by Xiong Xin leopard and went to Beichen. Beichen Yo yo yo yo, what's up Baby, who bullied you Forget it. Beichen is very quiet. It's my fate. I know it. Oh, your understanding always makes me heartache But my thunder tactics against Beichen are not just words. Say it. What do you want me to do with them? Then deduct 1000 from each person's salary With what ah We just took down the 5 million list You don't give a bonus Also ungrind kill donkey, let us workers how to live Can you have a boss again? Our family Beichen is too stressed to eat my Wellington steak, eh If he hadn't been carrying your weight Where did the richest man Jiang's investment come from? Then you have to take advantage of the opportunity. Don't offend the richest man Jiang and his family. You taught me to do things Tomorrow I will personally pick up Jiang Zong I'll show you what the president's wife can do. Hey hey hey hey hey oh See? Only the president's wife can pick up customers in a expensive Ferrari. Oh, how many people can you take in this Ferrari? Can't you count? It's you who can't count. Look at it. Mr. Jiang, I informed you that your whole family would attend and drive a sports car to pick them up. Is to want our family who go who don't go This car was the work of this new employee who didn't know anything about it. As the president's wife, I drove him back. If you can't do it yourself, you still throw the pot here to others. Is that how the president's wife leads by example? What have you prepared Get up here, you come and get on the bus. Oh, sorry There is no place Bye-bye, Zombie Sister, Yuqi I didn't expect you to have a set of career palace fights. Drink water, you work hard I won't have to work hard for a while. At the investment ceremony I declare you, as heir to the Jiang family, a major shareholder in the war. Ha, ha, ha, ha, everyone, please get out of the car. This car is too smart. Of course, let's go Jiang Yong said that one of his family members wants to be our biggest You just offended him He can pass later, you have to make up for it. Oops. Beichen, you have been cheated It's all that zombie To attract your attention He set me up Hey. What about others? All of love all is love Elder Martial Sister Jiang, you are dressed like this to seduce our family Beichen Oh. So you came to Beichen for me. So you're here to disgust me. You two are sick to see a doctor I also told you In my eyes, there is no room for any woman except Jiao Jiao You fired me Then your investment ceremony can be suspended, ha, ha, ha President 17, he didn't make any mistakes. Yes After 17 years of fun, they all encouraged you. Come on, come on, you and you And you're all fired I am not me, you don't regret oh And I regret Oh, it's our honor that Jiang is always voted by you. Ha, ha, ha, ha, total ginger I have prepared some gifts for your family Millennium Ginseng Hermes Limited Edition Diamond Necklace, Mm-hmm I don't know which one of your family is our shareholder. Is my gift satisfactory? Still satisfied? 17 No, he's our shareholder Oh, my God On behalf of the Heir to the Shoufujiang family, I declare All the colleagues who have just been fired come to work in my Jiang family. Double the salary and drink well. As for the withdrawal of your investment Wait for bankruptcy, sister. Before, we had eyes and did not know Taishan. Please give us a way out It doesn't matter if you offend me. If you offend the workers, let me forgive you. That won't do. My way of dealing with the world is to pay for it. Hey, you don't go No money for meals. Don't think I won't beat your son if you're handsome. My mom's okay. It's okay. I'm sorry. I heard that one of the new interns is the chairman's son. You see, the supervisor still can't find out who the chairman's son is. You The intern in charge has arrived. Uh, hello, everyone My name is Liu Haoqun This is the signature fried noodles made by my mother for everyone. It is the son of his fried noodle shop. The chairman of the son Your name is Xiaotian Ha ha Welcome, welcome, don't eat these fried noodles I don't know if the gutter oil is really dirty. I'll take you to eat Japanese food later. EU CASA, those who worship high and step low This heart is dirtier than gutter oil. Mostly I'm not right After I cover you I like to eat fried noodles Hum Jiang 17, you still take pictures of others I won't let you fuck off in a week. Oh, my God. Work hard Go home and rest. But my job hasn't gone back yet. Then I'll go and work overtime to do this. Wait a minute Xiaotian's work, why do you do it for him? Xiaotian what identity What grade is he I'm willing to give him a job You should be thanking me if I can't finish it. You all get out. Want us to roll There is no door Don't be afraid to help you Uh, uh, uh, uh Walk up to my mother's for dinner. It's great, aunt. This potato is really delicious Eat more if you eat. This is a Burnett potato. Bernhard never heard of Auntie's busy doing business when she was young. without accompanying her Now, I just want him to have a hot meal. Your mother really loves you Ouch, I forgot to bring my head rope Finally finished Right. Poor must work hard the report is well written But now it's mine With what Just because you two can't get on the table Which is qualified to attend the wine meeting with the chairman Look at what your unwashed hair looks like all night. It's so poor and sloppy. It is also a disgrace to go there. You have time to say I robbed your report It is better to go home and wash it. 17, you come with me wow villa Go in, you Why do you still have the key to the villa? You should not still do part-time cleaning I... 17. Shampoo, you have to use it well I'm sure it will satisfy the chairman. Mm-hmm. Xiaotian, this is the report my grandfather gave you. After a while, don't forget to put in a good word for me in front of the chairman. Wow, it's beautiful How did you come With the fruits of our labor here to court You might as well mean security to kick them out. I'll see who dares to let them go You sell fried noodles, what are you doing here Talk to the chairman. I hear you're not giving my son less support in elementary school. It was a misunderstanding that the security pulled him out. Chairman, chairman You're the chairman's son He's the new president It can also be your boyfriend. Jiang is happy I'll recruit you later, oh oh oh This marriage will not end this year. So many people are watching. Chen Xin lost my face Do you still have a face? The person you cheated on sent intimate photos to my cell phone. Look, you really make me sick Open ginger 17, you give me stop Hey. Brother, who is it? Eldest brother, I'll sweep the money for you I'm not a taxi, I'm an asshole Boy, you dare to go I smashed you Hey. You wait a minute Wait a minute, I'll go down I go down, threaten me Today you do not Hey, open the door You too, I Jiang 17 don't know how to write cry I just saw your IOU in the car Why do you owe so much money? That's not mine Oh, don't try to be brave. You saw me in such a mess. Only the two of us is even, huh I'll invite you to dinner another day Thank you today, I sent you the phone number Me, hum Both of us are miserable. Woo, young master is really sorry I forgot to take your car for maintenance. Also wronged you drive my car Take this money to pay your debts. Thank you, Master. I'll thank you. Today, driving your car made me meet an interesting person to eat. I'll talk about it later. I got a flyer job. One 500, don't you still owe money? Come on, I'll give you my salary too. Hey, hello, hello Let me have a look Hello, hello, let me have a look You have a good look Thank you speechless Oh, my God, nobody What time does this have to be sent? Wait to give me a call, go Auntie, hello Mao Si's men came out to get the mountain list. Hello, hello, have a look Thank you. Thank you. Yeah Yeah. Finally finished, well done. Jiang 17, you are really with this broken car driver. Now they're all reduced to handing out leaflets together. Not married to me, regret it I regret it, ha, ha, ha I regret not kicking you earlier, the king. Don't keep your mouth shut. I have an engagement party in two days Many old classmates have come, so you can try it together. First, it must be good Are you sick? Who let you promise Zhu, help you get back face You just need to be pretty Leave the rest to me Oh, mom. That my nails hair lashes When did I not fix me Let me see. With it, I no longer have to worry about eye makeup will cry She should cry out. I just wow Beautiful women. This friend is so handsome and rich You did a good job on this car, yo Where's your damn car? This Ferrari rented it It's also a high-end place like this. You can come here for once in your life. After all, the guests here are as rich as I am. See that guy? That's Wang fuzong of qianhao group. he is brother with me. Give me a few minutes in the industry. Then you call him here and we'll see. Oh, my god, don't be fooling around. The night breeze called me The somebody else is despise you Wang Shuo of the open Qianhao Group, hum You can make more money in a minute than in a lifetime. You, a flyer, deserve what you said to others. 37. I don't think your boyfriend has much money, but his face is quite big. Why don't I try, just you, Xiao Wang Master, what are you doing here? Young master This is the heir of our Qianhao Group. I hear you know him well. He won a lot on your face. He just asked me for directions. I don't even know you Even in my name to swindle Just wait for my lawyer's letter. If you laugh, I'll say that the person who should cry is different.