SINAN: So the plan is that we would also behind a developer who know exactly what the impact are able to use this feature. And, of course, any users the potential impact are also able to use this feature. We're still doing system-health even if you're developer, to use your phone on a daily basis. But we're planning on getting PERSON: Welcome to the Made by Google work on the Google products you love. Here's your host, Rasheed Finch. RASHEED: Pixel phones now come with But how did that come about? We're talking to Sinan Xiao-- Vice President of Engineering. PERSON: This is the RASHEED: Sinan, build high-quality, first-party devices and health So that's the mission statement on Listeners of the Made by Google refer to that internal profile. So tell us a bit more about how you SINAN: Yeah. You know, that mission why I joined Google in the first place. I wanted to be part of building really but you could actually call them smart. If you think about early smartphones, and they ran apps, and I think that's because they were like computers. I want to make people feel like Like, you don't have to do We thought of you, right? Like Google thought of them. As an example, if you saw Pixels have some of the best but for people who have we want to make sure they're So we built guided frame so that And I really love that my work so they can get on with their lives. And that's kind of why that mission RASHEED: If I'm not mistaken, before the very first Pixel I'm wondering what you remember And were you on the Pixel SINAN: I was on the Pixel team. I was at the launch even, didn't have much to do with it. One of the very first on for the first Pixel what to do about our HDR+ mode. So specifically, like we knew that the It was just groundbreaking work. And the images were awesome. But early reviewers and early testers, turned it off-- SINAN: --it wouldn't turn back on. And so then all the rest of their And we got together, a to figure out, OK, what should we do? Should we allow them to turn it off? Should we just turn it back on? How do we handle, like, of people being able to not realizing that it's still off? It sounds like a very simple thing, but which is what we ended up deciding. We said, all right. We'll respect the setting while but the moment you exit and you come and go right back to turning HDR+ on. And that's where we landed to make out of the camera that was available. RASHEED: Yeah. I think you saved a lot of SINAN: Yes. RASHEED: You're the vice president of our devices and services. So what does that mean? Like, what's the day like for you? SINAN: Yes. I'm in charge of, I guess, designing and to build our first-party devices that, as seamlessly as possible. And this includes, as I mentioned Home products, or Fitbit products, that we're discussing today. And, of course, Pixel is phone, Some of these devices like, for instance, our Nest doorbells, So a lot of that job isn't just those products but also maintaining to make sure that they stay secure. You don't want people being able and be able to view what's going on or change your temperature in So we want to make it And so we have to make sure but we're thinking about want to be able to use those for as long as possible. And if you apply that kind of thinking our phones, our watches, we need to also think about how we with people, and for high-value if you're passing them down, that whoever you're is buying it in the secondary that device for as long as possible. RASHEED: So when Pixel 8 and we announced seven years I have a lot of questions about the But maybe it's good to start with a more and the longevity of them. So what are challenges for teams supported for such a long time? Like, why isn't everyone doing that? SINAN: Yeah. So seven years-- seven Just to share a fun fact, my right before the Pixel 8 Pro launch. So I thought it was kind of neat A lot of work is necessary for that. We ended up having to work with a to get to that seven years because if we have, you have the Pro skew, you have the non-Pro skew. And we sell in different So there's different memory So there's a lot of different skews. And the longer you support, to test any time you make an update. And we have these security So we're talking about a lot of devices seven years. So you need to make sure to do that kind of continuous are able to do that kind of testing. Everybody needs to be the highest-quality experience once it RASHEED: So maybe the talking to partners, making to go the distance for the seven years. Maybe it's much more than it is, like, is it SINAN: I think it's both technically because as you support for there's different versions that you're trying to support with a different version of may have launched with a that you're updating to. And then as you break off and and a different security got different versions against different versions of Android. And just that matrix just gets And that's what took us so many was because we've been working at it We've been chipping away that matrix. As an example, when we went to the we said, OK. Well, now, we've simplified because now our A-series, and our Pro, and all of our That cuts it down a ton generates probably the we're talking about software updates. And if it's all the same of products or entire portfolio, That's why, when we we were able to up our that we had previously to five. So we went to five years of updates. And then after we got a couple and were really being able to figure but then also launched two more form we got a lot more Yes. Now we can go to that seven to our customers that extended time. RASHEED: So how did you land on seven? Why is it not six? You came up with seven. I know it brings us in 2030 for Pixel SINAN: Yes. RASHEED: But I'm just you decide where-- where that limit is. SINAN: That is a great question. When we made that announcement, I saw a can we actually trust Google why would anybody keep their phone for But I didn't see very many people-- in why seven, and why now? I think I already answered the &quot;why now. Pixel's been around for We just launched the 8 and 8 Pro. And then we were around for a few years Google was in the phone business to build Nexus devices. Now, when we looked at active-user it didn't tell us as full and complete you know, kind of targeted towards particularly, but Pixel-- we built for everyone, We really want to focus So when we look at the trajectory launched in 2016 landed and how many we saw that, well, a good active-user base until So if we think about, OK, we want to as people are using the device, then And please-- I understand, using the device for seven years. For some of them, it may be the same But a lot of them are passed down, or they're traded in for a new sold in a secondary market. RASHEED: What do those I guess, technically, you do just another update in seven years. But that wouldn't be really fair. Like, are we doing yearly updates? Is there a different cadence? What do I get when-- as a Pixel customer? SINAN: Yeah. I think one of the neat and as far as I know is you don't have to wait until our the latest and greatest You get these feature drops, right, not only get Android OS get new features on your Pixel device. From what we've seen, people And the longer we can keep we're talking about seven years now-- even if you're a buyer on a secondary you're still getting that you can be delighted get new features and new capabilities. I think the other thing is update our entire portfolio of time, right? So whether you're getting a or one of our premium Pixel devices, they all get updated If it's supported, it'll get the update. RASHEED: Absolutely. So for this season of the we're asking our superfans to tell us From Daniel Phillips of his question, &quot;What are the biggest Well, you alluded to, like, But, I guess, let's say, Now maybe it's 2030. What are other challenges than the sort of vast amount of SINAN: Yeah. Look, one of the things that I helps to answer this question is that to seven years. What we moved was from our previous and five years of security updates to a and seven years of security updates. The way we made that happen closely with the Android team here. If you remember-- this is kind of, But one of the things that we did is we transitioned from what we used to to a year-round beta program where and then you stay on beta And what you would get is an early our quarterly platform releases. So we actually started rather than waiting for, every summer on these annual We would have these incremental updates. And over the two years those quarterly updates so that we could deliver more throughout the year on Pixel. And what we saw was now that we we have much more confidence that on a quarterly basis, because and ensure that features that we're to these quarterly releases are going RASHEED: So having extra beta testers-- I'm sure there are a lot of podcast who might be opted into helps you get through that SINAN: Yes. And that also helps us do Android because we're able to do the security and just tie them together. And with more frequent testing we're able to do that with RASHEED: So what happens like There is another feature Is the Pixel 8 getting as what is then the latest Is that the target? SINAN: Yeah. I think it really makes a difference So if it's a feature that or it doesn't require extra storage, in there, or some other then we do our best to make back to currently supported products. And you'll see a history of that where a software-only feature, we available on supported devices. RASHEED: I'm wondering-- we've seen some you know what-- we're going How does that make you feel? SINAN: I think that's great, right? I think it's fantastic for I feel like, in some ways, Pixel on bringing the entire And whether it's quality, or the or, you know, AI or even if it's just something as, as sustainability and keeping it's a really hard problem. And as I noted, it really needed with Android, and with And once we're able to do that and these other teams that are common like we love that others So we think it's fantastic. RASHEED: Perfect. Setting the bar for the others then. Sinan, there's another Last year, you announced that Pixel to run Gemini Nano. In fact, it powers a summarized feature in Gboard. Has that process changed how you SINAN: Yeah. That's a great question. We've been-- we've been running we actually called out the exact for a very long time, And that's been able to deliver whether we're talking about or any of the other things that we've that people find really useful. When large language models and we were like, oh, this is great. Like, Tensor's a great And so we were able these very large language models onto And the Pixel 8 Pro, was a perfect place for us to and see what we could do with of a large language model. And when we took a look at, OK, can we and we looked at the Pixel well, Pixel 8's got 4 and, you know, it wasn't all right, we're just going to And we've been doing a lot to make sure that we weren't going As we talked about earlier, that our updates improve actually degrade your experience. And so having 8 gigabytes of we didn't even make it memory because we didn't want to degrade We're doing what we call lazy go to summarize in the Recorder app. Smart Reply is something that so that it's available all the time. You don't want to wait for the So we keep it resident. And that, of course, is So that folks can use the feature what can we build with And so we want to make that We want to make that So the plan is that we would also behind a developer who know exactly what the impact are able to use this feature. And, of course, any users the potential impact are also able to use this feature. RASHEED: Well, that's So when is it happening? SINAN: We're still doing system even if you're a developer, to use your phone on a daily basis. But we're planning on getting RASHEED: That's great. I'm sure many people are eagerly And finally, Sinan, I just like asking Tell me about your SINAN: Yes. I think the thing that also work on Nest and we obviously also build iOS apps. And so a lot of us also So one of the things that and using my Pixel as my primary all the I don't make or receive many the Pixel Call Assist just absolutely priceless. If you think about, OK. I have to call a business, right, it kind of transcribes the menu the menus are and then you can just that you want, that is priceless. And then when you actually make the phone will just hold for Talk about saving time. So like, these are the things that, but when I do use them, they're amazing. It's magical. And then, of course, receiving I almost never get any Because Call Screen is there it's automatically if it's likely spam. And if it's not spam, with our latest and 8 Pro, the voicemail, is so natural and so had zero humans that that I actually wanted to They didn't hang up. They actually answered, they I would see the and then I was able to pick up the call. So for a phone, I think and I think my favorite features are RASHEED: It's real now, the smartphone. SINAN: Yes. Yes. I can call it a smartphone. And Pixel is, you know, in my opinion, RASHEED: Absolutely. Sinan, thank you so much for And hopefully, we'll see you around SINAN: Great. Thank you. PERSON: Thank you for listening Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now wherever you get your