This is the best snack bar in Berlin [1] LANGE`S IMBISS / Berliner Strasse 61, Tegel, Berlin good morning Lange`s Imbiss Every day a different dish, now unload a little something 3:45 a.m. and the lights were on for the coffee machines oh, I have to drive my car away, good morning, first put a few eggs on [2] Eggs are boiled to be used on rolls later, so these are the top shells, which I now cut into schnitzel [3] The pork top shell is cut to the size of a schnitzel The leftovers come to the boulettes Kerstin? yes, what is today? Thursday 50? yes, make 50 schnitzels [4] Pork topside schnitzel already prepared by the boss, here you have a few more eggs, okay , it wasn't that much anymore. I think I saw it once in the refrigerator [5] Preparation for scrambled eggs with bacon. So I'll leave that for now sizzle oh, I need tongs today [6] Preparation for rice pudding 400 g [7] Preparation for pork schnitzel I'm cooking pasta three times today? yes, I think pasta salad... ah okay , so I don't think I'll make a pasta salad today, yes, but I wouldn't speculate on it yet , maybe I'll make another pasta salad again on Monday, so I'll have to get a container for spices weigh in, get Kerstin? yes with milk please in the cup Olaf don't you want a coffee at first thank you yes here are 90 g of salt and 25 g no I'll add 23 g of pepper then it's better to come out with hot water if hot water would also come like that now goes into the rice pudding &quot;Hackepeter&quot; / minced meat ready [8] Spiced minced meat = &quot;Hackepeter&quot; it comes out first smorrebrod smorrebrod smorrebrod what do you say? Smorrebrod [9] Get vegetables from the cold storage, the bucket is there, that should be enough [10] Preparation for the carrot soup , especially at this time in the morning, a lot of things have to happen at the same time , otherwise I won't be able to do it if you just finish one thing and stand still without starting anything else , then I won't be able to finish all the food by lunchtime. How much advance time do you always need? well we open now at 5:30 a.m. I was here shortly before 4. Are you from the catering industry? I learned to be a butcher and did my master's degree at the age of 23 and my parents already had a snack bar with a market and hall Arminiushalle. Maybe someone knows that the TV series &quot;Three Ladies from the Grill&quot; was filmed in the snack bar at the Arminiushalle with Gunter Pfitzmann Harald Juhnke played with it and Brigitte Mira the old guard I think most of them are already dead so good morning good morning oh what's going on here and let's look ahead let 's have Hackepeterschrippe / German Sushi Rolls in there tomorrow ? yes , yes, that's good, now don't rush me [11] Cold cuts from various types of German sausage [12] Vegetables are chopped up for the German goulash [13] Mixture of seasoned minced meat and onions for Berlin meatballs Sabine Cold cuts , not yet but yes, I have to too still make the record, yes I'll put it here &quot;Lange&quot; ... more than a snack! Bacon Schmalz [14] Preparation for German goulash Schnitzel with fried potatoes etc. Oh man, the cash registers open at 5:30 good morning good morning Sun 3.70 EUR thank you it worked, hello, I want schnitzel , would you like schnitzel? in the roll yes that's all then yes that's it I'm too small ciao ciao once Hackepeter they want to have it in their hand straight away or wrap it up straight away in their hand so now I have to get a spoon oh here I still have some yes yes yes These are ham cubes , what recipe is this? Mine , well maybe a little bit from my grandma is also included Carrot soup now it goes on the stove again please a coffee small or large small okay with milk thank you Scrambled egg rolls are coming with potatoes quickly get them if you don't okay so now come on a bit of parsley with it yes, that's good, good morning, good morning, it's about to start here, your coffee , yes, but I'm ready, a schnitzel in a roll, yes, I'll pack it up, no, do you want a piece of cardboard underneath or something on your hand, right on your hand, okay 5.70 EUR and 4.30 EUR back yes thank you very much Breakfast menu Sandwich with &quot;Hackepeter&quot; 1.80 EUR Large cup of coffee only 1.10 EUR Allspice powder Bay leaves Paprika Garlic and special spices [15] Lange's own spice mix We also need tomato paste, I'll make that Noodles a minute longer this time, yes? because there is fresh water on it. How long does it take approximately? I never do this based on the time. I always check whether the meat is soft because meat varies. Sometimes it cooks quicker and is soft and sometimes it takes a little longer and you can't actually say in advance. Well, generally speaking, when will we have the pot Set up at 6 a.m. So I think the pot should be ready by 8 a.m. Now I'll cut bacon for the beef roulades that I'll wrap later. Have a little coffee with milk? no coffee yes with milk and sugar? yes yes What are the top three rolls? I can tell you once it's Hackepeter scrambled eggs, these are the top rolls that sell the most and yes the cooked ham is actually popular here, almost everything is made from scratch. Meat salad is made from scratch. Egg salad is made from scratch. Hackepeter and scraped meat are freshly minced and The boss does almost everything himself, like a baguette with salami, can you cut it? 3.50 EUR please thank you I'll go and see if we still have any fried potatoes. Homemade &quot;Berliner Knacker&quot; has to be really hot. You'll see that in a moment own spice mix for fried potatoes that go away like nothing please thank you good morning yes we will be filmed I'll have a cracker / bockwurst with normal ketchup great okay great yes I'll do rice pudding first, rice pudding is portioned now there's a little bit more on it - those are the onions They are now mixed in, the onions are still soft but not burnt, my fried potatoes are ready, it's so quick [17] Lange's Wanderboulette moment a knife is missing here, yes we are being filmed today, you too Three witches from the grill, where is the third one? Does it come with homemade ketchup or regular ketchup? Homemade, yes Well, everything is documented in detail , thank you very much. Two meatballs please as curry meatballs to eat here? So who gets it now I already have 4.98 EUR Yes, that's right, yes, have a nice day everyone, Ciao Bye, it's also soft and hot, good , that was very early today, yes, is it like that every morning? yes, that's my normal working hours from Monday to Friday, okay, and how long have you been doing this? So the way the shop has been here since 2003, I started learning when I was 16, so when I was doing my apprenticeship I got up at 5 a.m. Oh no , I started working at 5 a.m. So I got up at 4:30 a.m. So always an hour earlier sometimes an hour later variable are you an early riser? Inevitably you get used to it, it becomes automatic. I've seen you do almost everything yourself here? how come? I just think it's better, you can only differentiate if you don't buy anything ready-made, if you buy a ready-made stew then it tastes the same as everyone else's, but I don't want it to taste different. I also want my food to taste different than it does from a can or a boulette in a roll please and a cola please twice a currywurst with fries Homemade ketchup? Mayonnaise and the pizza, thank you very much , it's hard work here and people don't even see it. I think it's really great that it's being filmed. They always think what's making people so broken, it's just the service that's behind it, but what's behind it is, above all, us both already old, both over 60 63 we sometimes still fool the young people, it's really like that, the lunchtime business is actually the worst time between 12 and 2 p.m. yes, but the snack bar is very well known, so it's definitely here in the north Case known, I 've already gone to Hamburg, even then they knew the snack bar. There are a lot of tourists here because there's a hotel over here, so they come and eat here too like German cuisine for lunch, which other snack bar offers that? There are maybe 2 or 3 in Berlin, otherwise there is only currywurst with fries everywhere, not like here, so here everything is cooked from scratch, hello, hello, it tastes good too, it's filming, then you have to put a lot of stuff on it, the same thing and a nice boulette yes, good from both sides we will be accepted here then everyone can see what work we have here everyone can see what work we have here what everything is behind it looks good yes and two beers yes thank you yes it also tastes delicious Carrot soup three potatoes just yes Boiled potato , well, because there are three boiled potatoes , there are only three boiled potatoes , no, not just three , then I'll have goulash with pasta to eat here and twice just pasta with your lovely homemade ketchup, just to take away EUR9 please hello there you go, once a Jagerschnitzel, thank you . Are you a regular customer ? Yes, it's the best snack in Berlin Goulash Beef roulade you can't do any better yourself Ciao look at that, isn't it insanely delicious, I'm leaving, yes, everything from him, yes 9 EUR, yes, thank you, fried potatoes and two meatballs eat here to eat here the bullets with house ketchup normal or paprika sauce paprika sauce to take away twice the spaguetti Bolognese exactly and then two more curry sausages Also one more wish that's all 9 EUR I would like to have, please who can get it? and fries with mayo? yes, you can do that with homemade ketchup? Homemade rolls with it? a little more sauce please but finish it well I'll check it I'd like EUR6.50 thank you very much I'll get the bottle again yes it's EUR15 please do it 17 thank you very much 20 30 50 I'd like to thank you thank you what motivates you? yes, keep going, of course, make money, have a good life , but of course it motivates me when people say: it tasted really delicious, great, you're the best, or whatever, it's going down like oil , you said you also cook privately, So there's a passion behind it, right? Absolutely yes, I really enjoy cooking , but it only developed after I realized that I could do it quite well