Hi everyone! This week, I'm going to be making a series of videos about Ramanujan. This has been inspired by the release of a new film about Ramanujan called &quot;The Man Who Knew Infinity.&quot; The story of Ramanujan is he came from a poor background, with no formal training in mathematics. He was largely self-taught. But he sent a letter of his results to the Cambridge mathematician, G.H. Hardy. Now, Hardy recognized Ramanujan's talent, and invited him to Cambridge to work with him, this is around about the time of World War I. Now, unfortunately, Ramanujan died just five years later, but he left behind a large body of work which is now considered works of genius. He is certainly considered one of the most naturally gifted mathematicians. Now, I spend a lot of time telling people that maths isn't about formulas and equations. The problem with Ramanujan is, he was all about formulas and equations! He loved formulas and equations! He had thousands of them! So this is my plan: I'm going to take you on a mathematical journey. I'm going to tell you a bit more about Ramanujan, and I'm going to show you three of his best formulas. This is not a definitive list, at all-- just three things that I thought you might find interesting. And we're going to take that journey without the use of a taxi cab. So I thought a nice place to start would be to show you Ramanujan's first ever published result. This is something he published while still in India. Now, as a child, he loved maths. He was clearly very smart, but he only had a couple of maths books to work from. He did go to college, but he was so obsessed with maths he ended up failing all his other subjects, and he had to drop out in the end. So his first ever published result was at the age of 23, and it was in the Indian Journal of Mathematics. And it was this formula: This is an example of something called an infinite nested radical. So you've got square roots of square roots of square roots, going on forever. And he posed this formula as a challenge to his readers. I mean, feel free to try and solve this for yourself. Sometimes you can use the nature of infinity to your advantage. Here's another example of an infinite nested radical. OK, so what we've got here is the square root of 1 plus the square root of one plus, and that goes on forever, as well. Now, notice--after the first 1 plus, all you've got there is just a copy of the whole thing. So we can replace everything after the first 1 plus with x. And now we get a very simple formula, which mathematicians find quite easy to solve. I mean, I could tell you the answer to that. In that case, x is the Golden Ratio. So that's 1.618 something, something, something. Now, in theory, you should be able to use the same idea to solve Ramanujan's challenge. Now, when he did this, he had no reply. Six months went by, no reply. In the end, Ramanujan had to provide the answer himself. Now, I'm going to tell you the answer--if you don't want to know. I'm going to tell you the answer now: The answer to this formula is three, which is gloriously anti-climactic, which I think is what I like about it! What Ramanujan had actually done is solve the problem far more generally. He had actually solved this expression here, which doesn't look anywhere near as nice. But you can solve it in the same sort of way. If you call f of x, then everything after the first square root is actually f of x plus n. So now you get a much nicer equation to solve. Let's just solve this by observation. Just notice that f of x equals x plus n plus a. That is a solution to the formula. So in the case of Ramanujan's challenge, you set a equals zero, n equals one, and x equals two. In that case, you would get Ramanujan's formula equals three. Ramanujan continued sending in results to the Indian Journal of Mathematics. But meanwhile, he had to get a job. So he got a job as a clerk at Madras Port Trust. And there, he found friends and supporters who took an interest in his mathematical work. And they encouraged him to write to Cambridge mathematicians. Now, that's where I want to pick up from in my next video. And we're going to have a look at another of Ramanujan's famous formulas. Until then, I'll see you next time.