This has to be the busiest seaplane airport in the world. Troubly paradise We just need to make sure we have enough fuel to get out of here. Guess who's on board today? You might know him, non-stop Dan! So this is pretty crazy. I don't know if this has ever happened in the history of flights That there's like 40 people on board, economy, you can choose any seat you want. but there happen to be two aviation youtubers on board so you can imagine when sam and i boarded and we're like what I hope today's flight passed your critical review. How did we go? Well, yes, I'm always quite critical But it's for a good reason, and today you can't complain when a flight is so empty. but especially when it's Emirates and Emirates economy I think is one of the best in the world. The food is great. They pass through with drinks during the flight, even after the meal service, which you don't even get a premium economy on some airlines that flew recently. That was super amazing landing. The next couple days, I'm going to do some seaplane flying around the beautiful islands of Maldives. We had the hardest flights, right? Hardest flight ever. Yeah, suffer so much, dude. Feel bad for us, please. All right I'd say it's funny because I feel like people think that we fly business in first class all the time, right? At least that is what people think. On a longer flight. Yeah. But today is super comfortable. Yes Arriving in sunny Maldives again! What a pleasure to be back! Here's my next flight. Check-in is at the International Airport. World's largest seaplane operator! So the interesting thing is you checking for your seaplane flight at the international airport. And then there will be a car to take you across airside into the seaplane base. Huge seaplane terminal Apparently there's multiple floors, there's hotels. lounges for every resort. The guests go inside to wait for their plane. Isn't this cool? You can see all the seaplane action directly from the lounge before you fly. This has to be the busiest seaplane airport in the world. There's about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10 went out for takeoff together This is a cool map showing all the parking position. Apparently, I was told the flight I'm going on is Tango Alpha Echo here. And here is Tango Album Michael, it's going 1, 2, 3 stars, and back to Marley. Here I am with my captain on the seaplane, Saif, right? Yeah. Right? Yeah. And I like what you wear, look at this, like shorts and sandals, exactly what I'm wearing. That's how flying in paradise looked like. Oh, there's a lot of bags already loaded. See. It is a Twin Otter. It's a Twin Otter on skis, I guess. so today we were released to go to Barcelo Whale Lagoon which is a beautiful resort We'll be making three stops after that: Lux Maldives, Maafushivaru, and then back to Male. Right, how high are we going to fly? So judging from the weather and the cloud base, maybe most probably 1,500 feet. And complete VFR, right? Not allowed to go into the clouds. Yes, yes. Yeah, again, I just love these chaps, they're flying in their shorts and sandals. We have a cabin crew on each flight. What do you do exactly, cabin crew? Well, where do mostly we secure the boat? And we'll do the all passengers and the luggage. We... You're like a... You're like a sailor, you're parking the plane every time when it landed on the water, right? Yeah. Yeah, it's cool. There are 5 emergency exit towards the flight deck towards the second lower left where you came from. In case of emergency, open the emergency exit, remove the popper and let it out through the doors. Your life jacket is underneath your seat. Please keep the seat there fastened. This is a non-smoking flat. To Barcelo it will take 30 minutes, from Barcelo to Lux it will take 10 minutes. From Lux to Mahapeshwar, it will take 10 minutes. It's getting really, really hot here. I want to jump in the water when I land. So Sam, on your left, this is one of the water runways called North Left. And right now we are taxiing towards South Centre. So it could be the other way because the winds are from around 180-200 How many water runways do you have? We have to at the moment. Yeah. Two?. Yeah. We have just these two for takeoff and for landing they'll be south left on the left right now. There's an FF landing Tower, take your Alpha Echo ready for departure, south wind. Tango Alpha Echo behind, cleared for takeoff, south centre, left hand. Ready Traffic. One o'clock. Same altitude. Zero miles. Are you doing this for me or every flight is like this? Lo hago solo por ti. There you go. But sometimes when passengers request we like to show them around the place around 500 feet Oh, really? That was a big yawn. Yeah, so what we do is like we take the view from the release We put in the fuel and the baggage weight as well. Yeah. When the passengers come in, we put the passengers according to their seating. I see. So, if it's within the siege range, it's good to fly. If not, we will just adjust the passengers accordingly. You do your way about so we're good. We didn't see you. Yeah, we Yeah, we're gonna finish this. So this is the aerodrome chart for Barcelona. In this shot we can see the location of lowering platform if I am not mistaken. Flip-flop yeah And, uh, borrow headsets, voice headsets, and stuff. So we just have a look at the chart and make sure we don't land on one of these coral heads. We'll be landing inside the lagoon and we'll be taxiing into the lagoon. Yeah, it's to the fixed platform, right. because there's another aircraft landing in barcelos in like four minutes or something Do we hold, or? No, no, no. By the time we are there, they'll be already done with everything. We got pretty quick with the donor, honestly. Usually the average turnaround time is like 5 minutes. So now we are coming into the Ariatel So on your right you see Outrigger, it's going to be our last stop. It looks like it's gonna rain Yeah, there's some isolated shallows here and there. Because this cloud base is very low. On 500 feet, we have to kind of push through it. And I bet you'll see the resort we are landing. So there's some weather approaching, so we have to make a landing a bit quick, but you'll see the result on your left side. Okay Echo, Alpha, Echo, we'll be landing Westbound Barcelona Traffic, 11 o'clock, same altitude, 0 miles. Oh, that was such a short lapping. Yeah, sorry because we had to land quickly because there's some weather approaching. Yeah. Yeah, the weather changed very quickly. Oh, the pothole's quite small, isn't it? Yeah. He's already loaded, he's departing now. They'll be shooting that way. All right. So sometimes when we are taxiing in high winds, we put some flaps to help us taxi a bit easier. So it's going to be a bit of a tricky docking because it's an offshore wind. I will do my best. So when we get close enough to the platform, the cabin crew will step outside and get ready with the ropes. Yes Our first stop at shallow whale resort First officer getting on board, we're going to the second flight now to Lux Resort. Uh, taxi behind the platform, same line as the other departing aircraft, 20 flaps, 50 pounds, safety procedures, that's brief. It's like trouble in paradise or something suddenly Yeah, bad, I think, that's the runway over there, we'll be joining a left downwind for a southwest palm landing. So this is Lux Resort, we'll be landing here shortly. So I have to make a short approach because there's another weather approaching again. Looking at people waiting for the passengers. They're waiting in the rain. Wow, they're waving and saluting us. There are so much steps in there, you see? And your then would you steps. Please find the steps, find the airplane here. And the lights We are refueling here, so we need around 700 pounds of fuel. 700 pounds yes So it's like a team effort, you can see from behind my crew and mental baggage. They're yeah, they're helping off holding bags So you have two tanks, you have one in the front and one in the back. I'm gonna go take a piss. Bulb engines, I think. We all expect sunny weather, but the reality is, it's raining quite hard now. It makes it interesting to see how the operation goes in bad weather. John is the manager of Lux Resort here. I have never seen a line of staff waiting for the plane. It makes us feel like VIP. Tell me, you just do it this time for me or you do it every day? Every arrival we greet the guests with a wave and welcome them in our special way. So John, how many flights come through here? Okay, so it depends on the international arrivals, but on average is for works at about 20 arrivals 20 flights a day to come here. What's the highest number you've seen? The highest number, we've had 44 movements in one day. Forty-forty-one day, that's the peak season. Peak season. Season and very busy hotel, too Bye-bye. See you. Bye. How cool is this? Captain holding an umbrella waiting for me. Thank you. Thank you. It's the visibility is too low to land it. So it flips up. Up stuff Call Dispatch and tell them heavy rain in Mahfuzhura. Relay for takeoff, Echo. Okay, then we are going direct to Delhi, weather also very rough and visibility very low, thank you The place we went to land is a bit too rough and the visibility was very low. So I just checked another resort, the same conditions. So we are going to a big lagoon area, which might be a safer choice to land. So it's much nicer here, an alternative. This is the safest alternative. Because it's a huge level and there's nothing to hit that. Right. But how do people go to that resort, that resort, they come here, by boat, they come here? Yeah So interesting how the operation work, like, you have alternates and they have to come and meet you now. Yeah, it's not because I'm nervous It's the ring. It's the ring, yeah. Yeah, I see, yeah, so we'll see. Yeah, so we're gonna wait for some time for them to come by boat. Yes. VOTE! Yes. I had never ever imagined I would land on a platform rocking in the sea in the Maldives. really defines all my expectations. We are now soaking wet in the heavy downpour. We just need to make sure we have enough fuel to get out of here. So that's the boat and as you can see there's a lot of teamwork from the resort side and from the company side to get you guys back Yeah, well you call it messy Sorry that came straight after There you go, captain of the day, Captain Saif. Thank you. It's unbelievable. Now the sun is shining again. Thank you. We'll be back. We'll be back for more. I want to stand a cavalcade nice weather with a drone shots next time Thank you