- These guys started a car company at home in their garage. Well, not exactly. - That's it. - But they did build this self-driving car in about 100 days. - Oh, s***. Brakes work. And if that wasn't enough, now they're building a flying ATV. - It's dangerous, so like how and how do we make sure - And you won't believe what hidden technology - What will it be like when people realize that there's no technology from whatever they wanna create? We need to go back to the beginning where we started in our garage and we created something that - Why do this? Well, because you can, of course. But this is just one in the level of industry and it's part of a social change you might not have noticed. - Now we have Amazon and we have YouTube, and with those two tools, you can order any part and then find a video with all the information Like that's kind of what where anybody could prosper if they tried, and now we're just at - Come meet the folks behind NiFT, an engineering company and makes them real. So are you ready for the This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding This is Shane Elwart, Allegedly, he also worked as David Harbour's stunt - Yep. but really look, I'm not crazy, right? Anyway, this all started because Shane, like the rest of us, decided he needed to keep - My wife said, &quot;Well, that you could do that you were doing?&quot; I was working for a company that brings in a hundred I don't have the resources to do anything that they're doing. But then I started thinking about it and I'm like, &quot;Well, maybe - Some people would've learned to knit or adopted a puppy, maybe Shane decided to build a self-driving car. - The goal was to demonstrate that we built in our garage in a timeframe that's sort of ridiculous and create something that's like, &quot;Hey, you know your Mine starts at $20,000.&quot; - With the help of family and friends, Shane and his kids, and he has a few kids, worked for 100 days to make this self-driving And yeah, it's real and it works. So, how'd they do it? - First of all, what are We're gonna make it electric. Okay. It's gonna be driverless without And then you take those high-level things and you just keep breaking them down. - And so we designed it 'cause they're super cheap, super simple. My younger brother came of the shuttle and it's pretty much what the original napkin - It took us nine days to actually drive. Wanna go for a ride? You just gotta go light Just go light, go light. - And then we wanted something that could possibly be flatpacked, so that's where all the My uncle has access to We knew how to weld. That was kind of like our design process was use the things that we - We got brakes, we got turn and this is here so I don't cut my head. I've cut it like several times already. - Some of the hardest was to figure out how that we're using to an Xbox controller, and then back to the motors and control it through a computer rather than through a - Today is our first test of auto-braking. We got a friend here, he's Ah, you killed it. - Full throttle. Full throttle! No gas, no brake. - I think the hardest thing on the project probably is the autonomy part of it. The initial thing we the edge of the curb and drive - I think on the mental and hey, I don't have a job here and I'm making this stupid thing. Why on earth am I doing this? Those things I think are and the engineering problems - It would be a mistake to think that this project was easy or cheap. Shane's an engineer with and his kids have tons of experience too, but still the idea that like a self-driving car at home would have been unthinkable - With 3D printers or like Arduinos, like those things are so accessible now. They just work out of the box, basically, and it's honestly insanely easy now just because there's so much information if you're able to use it. - Everything we did was This is like a giant tool chest that just came out of and there's more coming. - But there's another technology that made this all possible. It's an invisible technology, and it's actually been for most of this episode. You might be familiar with it. It's called a garage. You probably don't think of but it is, and it's a relatively new one, originating in the early 20th century. As more people owned cars and needed a place to keep them secure, the garage became a common But the garage, like so became much more than just It's a big, open space, and social conventions that shape what we do in all the It's a blank slate right in our homes, and that invites us to - The garage is like basically, or at least the way we use it, it's like just a creative space. It's just a place to go build Like why would you put - I'm here because this and when I came out of school and ended up with a desk &quot;I actually wanna be in the - Of course, not Facebook was started in a dorm room. Microsoft started in a motel room, but those were software startups. Some things need more space and that's where the garage comes in. Things like starting a band, or a shoe company, or a computer company, or a fruit company, or now - Computer, take me to the bridge. - I generally move it even when you're not you have to be able to steer it somehow. I'm gonna let you drive, man. - Oh, all right, cool. - I'll man the safety switch, so I'll just give you - How do I fire tortoise shells? I was able to take the shuttle for a spin. The autonomous mode is to following the path of a curb, and since there are no I had to pilot it with Luckily I am an amazing driver or terrified at all. Is that too- - No, you're good. Just the steering is, is very- I just wanted to make sure that was you. - Okay, so the steering - You want to go nice and slow. - I mean, I'm just gonna say it- hey, hey- you're right next to a freeway. After the car was finished, They pivoted from building shuttles and now they help other people bring their designs into reality. - Sometimes an organization as the box allows 'em to go and then they get squished back in. You need the smaller companies to actually provide some creative outlet and I kind of feel like That's what I am. You're - One of the cool things is just like, so we built the shuttle and people see that we can build a full vehicle. It's opened up some doors for us to do like full vehicle - They work with car companies to build prototypes and things like this modular and this electric supercar. That's what people do. They just squat by the car. - So we did cooling, electrical low voltage. That's our part is just to go from a chassis with to a fully-functional electric vehicle. - It's amazing. I mean it's a really I mean, there's things I don't miss, but I mean like they don't This is a beautiful- - Beautifully designed car. - So we gotta bring 'em up to First, you know, just We'll get the end story. First you convert it to electric, second you convert to autonomous, and then third you make it fly. - That's basically the NiFT story. - And then, yeah. - Which brings us to their Because they weren't satisfied with just building a self-driving car, Shane and company are now or a VTV, if you will. Basically it's a drone you can ride. What could go wrong? Hey, right now is an to bring great products to the market. You don't need to wait to make the product that You can make it yourself, and our sponsor for this episode is a perfect example of that. These are the Everyday I love them. They're easy to use and They work seamlessly with all my devices and have really great sound quality. They even have cool covers like this one, which looks like space They charge wirelessly and fast and they have 32 hours of battery life. But my favorite feature is that I can actually have them connected to two devices simultaneously. That means I can be listening but when I jump into a it just switches automatically. They also have really which I tested against Interstate 280, and they're not constantly like some other wireless that fall out when I'm or literally just sitting there. Anyway, this is a perfect because the product is good and yes, it is true that but we really do like the product. So if you've been looking for buy these Everyday Earbuds and watch all of our &quot;Hard Maybe watch them twice. Click the link in the or go to BuyRaycon.com/FreeThink to get 15% off your Raycon Okay, sponsored section - This is what we call and this here is intended to be a single passenger ultra-light vehicle. Doesn't require a pilot's license. We'll have some basic height control and so forth. - And this is a half-scale model, so it would be twice as long, - Yep, one of the main goals is actually to basically get the and other things. You know, if you were with a bladed vehicle- - You have shrapnel and then you also have imminent destruction following. - That's a lot of spinning knives. - So we just decided to, why don't we start with half-scale? That'll keep us from trying to get into it and doing something stupid. - And so the idea here those big rotors like we see in a lot of other eVTOL things, you would have some other mechanism here that pulls the air in from the sides and shoots it down, so yeah. This is early days for this project, but we got to see their as they did an early test - It's not gonna lift off the ground, but it's gonna sound cool. - So we're at 40% thrust. 40%, there's only 5% of the motors. 40% thrust, we probably have about 15 pounds of thrust right there that we we're just blowing - So the next stage of this, right now you're running this tethered, so at some point, this would need to be- would you this heavy in there, or would you need to - We won't use these cells. We're targeting an 80 pound battery. It's gonna be about 15 but we have a lot before we - Wow, that's super cool. But things look promising. Their earlier test flights with a skeleton of the VTV. - It's pretty amazing. A little scary because the we hadn't tuned it yet, so and it's a little dangerous. - Very chaotic. - And then once we actually the ropes and float it by to see, seeing something - A project like this makes it clear that we're in the middle of a pretty incredible moment of change. An accident of architecture, the explosion of cheap hardware, and new outlets like YouTube that make it easy for anyone to learn how to put things together- these are all colliding right now. - Nowadays just a single guy in his garage can make videos about it can see those videos and be impacted and inspired to go do - Ideas can come from small places. All these people starting If you can get the idea out you can actually succeed Like you can bring a - This is the beginning of the real industrial revolution. The emphasis here is on revolution because things are turned upside down. The next explosion of industry might not happen in a giant factory owned by a huge company- it will happen in your garage. Unless, of course, you're mainly using it to store old comic books. In that case, it might - When I was growing were always building something, always. I wanted to be there. And so as a kid I was in my garage, and honestly, I got made fun of a lot, actually. Yeah, they liked to poke at me and stuff. &quot;Oh, that's a dumb idea. Like you could never and I always wanted to prove 'em wrong. My dad always used to tell me, &quot;Shane, if you start something, That's what we did. Kind of one thing led to another and we did some really, And when we started my two oldest sons, they said, &quot;Hey, we're gonna quit our jobs.&quot; I was kind of upset at 'em I'm really super thankful because I couldn't have - So picture a scenario where the ability to start a hardware company of those with easy access It'll be truly democratized. Well, that scenario is You can 3D print, run a CNC make your own circuit boards, hell, splice some genes and you can do this all in your own home for a few hundred dollars, in most cases. And it's only going to get cheaper and easier to do these things. - These are all tools to be better, just enjoy the that doesn't exist yet. - Of course, easier is Doing something new is rarely easy at all and no one knows that better than Shane. - I'm still learning and I'm - The shuttle was a big investment. The lotus was a big investment. Then the drone is the so that's been a huge like leap of faith. - It's one thing to in 100 days, but they could only do that because of the years of experience and knowledge that they - Dad always took time to help us build things. He's got a lot of experience and we get to start with those things rather than having to It's a cool thing getting to Not always easy. We've had lots of disagreements for sure, but it also has been because when we get through this, we'll be a lot stronger because of it. - The story of how always starts much earlier - Are you in shock? - Are you in awe? - Sometimes they go back years, or decades, or generations, but that story always If you have the temperament and try, and then try again, then you get to build the future.