Very few institutions in our modern society Its politics are fraught with intense emotion It is the favoured battleground of the right, against the vicious hordes of social progress. And yet it is often near and dear to the hearts critique its configuration, but nonetheless Cisheteropatriarchy, the system of power based and gerontocracy, the system of power based may be condemned by some, but almost universally, Almost universally. While the family has been seen as sacred by the OG Emma Goldman was very vocal in her for "the abolition of the family." But before we get carried away, let's actually It may surprise you to learn that the definition These days, there's a vague identification by blood and/or affinity, but early Western the family as they understood it to be a natural Later research uncovered that many societies broadly through ideas of living together and That is, if they even have a concept of "family." You see, if we make the concept of the family arrangement across every human society, then own cultural biases and ideas onto a spectrum However, for the sake of this video, we'll There are so many arrangements currently held So many sizes, kinship terminologies, linealities, But although the family is seen as "natural," It is political and it is social. The category of "the natural," has been arrangements. Human nature. Natural justice. Natural hierarchy. Natural male supremacy. The eternal nature of the free market. And in this case, "the natural family." Just to be clear, biological reproduction it today is not. Just as eating is natural but grocery stores From race to class to nationality, appeals social inequality and social division. Always scrutinize appeals to nature. "But aren't women naturally dependent No. While pregnancy, childbirth, lactation, and it does not necessarily follow that women's "Aren't children naturally dependent on No. While children are still developing physically is necessary for their development. Gender and age egalitarian societies still among immediate return gatherer-hunter groups. If, for example, freedom of movement and association available, the responsibility of childcare a community, and the subjugation and indoctrination the dominant model, the material conditions domination by adults would not exist. We can't blame biology for us not living We must look to politics. Today we'll be exploring the forgotten importance family, and the ways we can challenge and Part I: Cooperation &amp; Domination For the hundreds of thousands of years of modern, humans have been what's known as Human infants have developed the ability to human mothers have relied on the extensive by alloparents, aka other members of their That is how we've been so successful as And we're not alone. Wolves, elephants, lions, corvids, and mice Africa and spreading across the globe thanks In Sarah Blaffer Hrdy's Mothers and Others, commitment to enlist caretakers and adults' evolutionary basis of the human ability for for cooperation. Without cooperative breeding, our species sharing is essential to survival when raising dependent young. There's a lot of propaganda about our past world of hypercompetition, but while competition in child rearing--has been far more crucial Co-operative breeding provided the evolutionary and language by making the extended childhood to sustain. Our fellow human neighbours better served cases. Anthropologists used to think traits like cooperatively, and engaging in group-based from other great apes. But we've found these activities in other So what distinguishes human beings from other for identification, altruism, compassion, understanding, goodwill, and caring, which in collaborative activities with shared goals And the origins of those traits lie in how An infant's alloparents were often maternal lovers, siblings, cousins, uncles, grandfathers, was crucial. Maternal grandmothers in particular play a Miss you Granny. The key to maximizing human child survival step in to pick up the slack and mothers can support. To quote Hrdy: "flexibility was, and continues Unfortunately, it seems we've lost a great in our modern industrial capitalist world. The invention, accumulation, and hoarding competition, and the consequences have been Sure, there are neighbourhoods and households breeding are still present, but the atomization thoroughly kept us from reaching the full Today, the dominant model places the burden the child's parents, who are stretched thin to handle alone. We now observe that children raised without attachment, poor empathy, and poor cooperative itself, entrenching us deeper into this asocial We can trace part of this shift away from arrangements much further back than just the the past few centuries. In fact, it was the emergence of patriarchy of domination we see today. The Origins of Patriarchy event, but rather a process that took place periods of time. It is not innate to human existence. The view that women were designed by God to physically weaker, and submissive gender; of their father; and the view that the mere ideological positions. Misogyny, gerontocracy, and queerphobia are social and political. In The Creation of Patriarchy, Gerda Lerner tasks were accepted long before the entrenchment In gatherer-hunter societies, women usually are not strictly segregated to any particular Strict gender roles would only be reinforced and patrilocality, where kinship is traced thanks to the father's nearby kin, leading Notice I said some societies. A few never developed patriarchy and others colonization. Myths of Male Dominance by Eleanor Burke Leacock that. The simple arrangement of daily tasks would and the preference of childrearing became in place to institutionalize the patriarchal in the collective historical memory. The Hammurabi Code is one famous example of from the divine as seen in the Abrahamic religions, efforts to co opt female fertility symbols, are spiritually or mentally incomplete can and entrenchment. Centuries of social allocation, cultural adoption, structure we live under today, and it is maintained genders. As Lerner argues, women have historically of women, whether for self-preservation, to race, or for other reasons. The prototype of the state, as the Kurdish Life, is the patriarchal family. In fact he goes so far as to describe the small state." The patriarchal family as an institution is state power. Power is invested in the male head, women's are raised to supply the population, the example and justification for other forms of slavery is reproduced in the next generation. That is why it is so sanctified. The elite need the patriarchal family and maintain their stranglehold on the world. The structural power of the State can only of power that mimic its values proliferating Some people don't mind if a boot is on their other peoples' necks. But then we must ask, why did some human groups After all, there have been all sorts of human been restricted to nomadic hunter gatherers We now know of a few egalitarian cities, where Agriculture did not necessitate hierarchy for some new hierarchies to develop, and patriarchy However, patriarchy is often quite convenient Nascent hierarchies can become more complex, particular circumstances. The societies that have managed to stave off who specifically organize to prevent it. Gender is one potential axis of conflict in conflict must be a constant activity. I'll explain how later in the video. Unfortunately, today we live in a world dominated Thousands of years after the patriarchy developed capitalism would bring about the meteoric what we're going to examine next. Part II: The Rise &amp; Fall of the Nuclear Family recent phenomenon. As in, it only gained massive prominence in we live in today. Yet people treat it like this eternal standard The nuclear family is an independent, conjugal primary breadwinner), wife (typically the residence pattern, meaning husband and wife And the nuclear family is indeed pretty much Or at least, it's expected to be. The nuclear family should be understood in Firstly, it is a social and economic institution. Secondly, it is a powerful ideology. It is seen as inevitable, as naturally given, It is imbued with a unique social and moral general human values, rather than the conventions The stereotypical nuclear family, despite of the world, is still the most popular in But how did this come to be? Let's take a moment to map the rise of the The Rise of the Nuclear Family Laslett found that the nuclear family was in England since the 13th century, unlike Europe and Asia. The flexible, young nuclear family was ever-mobile By the 17th century, the nuclear family began England, and with the emergency of proto-industrialization starting to become a financially viable social However, the more common social unit in early or "co-provider family," not, as is commonly which weren't particularly common as life was relatively young. In the corporate family household, whether It was a place of production, so all members the family. These households were usually large because of taking in assorted relatives and non-related other people's children, orphans, the ill, In 1800, 90% of American families were corporate During this time, colonizers worked overtime children in residential schools across the to break apart African families, making the Attempts to practice traditional kinship arrangements confront the precariousness, lack of autonomy, determined by the structures of white supremacy The fragmentation and destruction of families the world over. It's obvious why. Extended families are resilient, far more One or more families can serve as a complex, the shocks of life. As Britain and the US began to change rapidly life expectancy, the extended family served Between 1750 and 1900, the prevalence of extended becoming more prevalent than at any time before Of course, extended families aren't perfect. They may be more stable, but they're often quite traditional in the worst senses of the Patriarchy of course, abounds, even in extended There's very little privacy, and even less Family bonds may be stronger, but individuality So as industrialization progressed and factories late 19th and early 20th centuries, young their own nuclear families, affording them By the 1920s, the nuclear family with a male as the dominant family form, and reigned supreme And it wasn't long before the cult of the In a 1957 survey, 80% of the respondents said or "neurotic." It was assumed that healthy people lived in By 1960, 77.5% of all children were living and apart from their extended family. The ole American Dream ideal of "Mom, Dad, and white-picket fenced, suburb" was here. And for a while, the arrangement seemed to I put working in quotes for obvious reasons. After all, the "stable" (white) nuclear in today only truly "worked" from about entirely relegated to the household, nuclear with other nuclear families, and every economic to support the otherwise fragile institution. Thanks in part to the whites-only prosperity high unionization, and high social trust, (White) men were making nearly 400% more than Married women, on the other hand, were barred hours trapped inside the home under patriarchal It was enough for many to go a lil mad. Still, they did have a bit of support. "Coalitions" of nuclear families in a common. People were part of one another's lives. They lived on each other's front porches, bartered household goods, grilled together, other's homes without knocking like it was There was, and still is, a lot to appreciate flaws I can't help but keep bringing up. We can't choose our families, but there's Abusive and toxic households notwithstanding, nuclear family home is a refuge for many. A place where, when you have to go there, Home has a level of security, obligation, that you often really can't find anywhere The appeal of the nuclear family is also heightened Since nuclear families tend to have far less attention under a parenting style that can And in turn, the belief that children "need also facilitates its appeal. And then there's a related anxiety, which parent with whom to relate to cannot be properly Of course, this anxiety is unfounded, as children healthy, capable, and successful as those persists. And of course, all of this assumes a healthy the appeal of marriage and nuclear family the opportunity for warmth and interdependency. The reality kinda sucks, a lot of the time. Bliss or hell, the 1950-1965 period was not steady decline of the nuclear family, and comeback. The Fall of The Nuclear Family capitalism is contradictory, in precisely capitalism requires the family (as an essential power; as a salve for the psychic wounds inflicted as it undermines it (denying parents time on couples as they become the exclusive source -Mark Fisher, Capitalist Realism the domination of the sheltered, male breadwinner the rising feminist movement came the freedom leading to dual-earner nuclear families dominating privacy, and autonomy as ideals gained more marriages than just childrearing; and wages The general American birth rate has declined; people have been living without a romantic shrunk in size and shattered left and right Families have also grown more unequal in America Affluent people don't only marry more and to "buy" the support that the extended form of babysitting, professional child care, programs, and life coaches. Meanwhile working class families struggle build and maintain stability. And what about Black folks? Black historian W.E.B. Du Bois recognized over a century ago that Black family. And he also recognized that the structure of the strength and pride of African notions The sociocultural enforcement of the nuclear Africans had long thrived on and carried out cooperative models of communal living, community social fathering, and strength in the face When the LBJ administration put out the infamous, "Negro community" as "retarded by a of black men to function as authority figures," family models as deviant; criminalized Black sought to rally Black men for the task of women. This isn't to say that the nuclear family Black folks. But it wasn't the tradition of the cultures white insistence that we be "saved from should strive, not for hotep ahistorical conceptions to construct our own social arrangements. More on that later. Why isn't the picturesque 1950s nuclear Why wasn't it able to weather the changes Well, we're going to need to dig a bit deeper with class dynamics. The family creates and recreates the social of our lives. It gives us each our initial class position, The vast majority of people remain in the reproduce themselves from generation to generation. This isn't to say there's no mobility, ladder of income, and even class, but rates for decades. The conditions of working class families especially to succeed, while the inheritance of privilege them to concentrate wealth even further, reinforcing The family serves to pass on privilege and And what about the condition of women in the When Ann Oakley explored The Sociology of wasn't considered real work, she found that week. One woman worked for 48 hours per week on a whopping 105 hours per week. And the work sucks. It's monotonous, repetitive, fragmented, a house clean and caring for children does The work is done in lonely isolation from and almost always unpaid. If the cash value of women's contributions what their husbands could afford to pay. And worse yet, though things have progressed seem like women can escape care work. Whether they're married or not, whether have children or not, they seem bound to this Why? Because apparently keeping house is feminine. This burden placed on women means that they're life fully, as they have an extra layer of face under capitalism. Motherhood is especially demanding, entrapping, Unlike men, who can usually choose how and seen as inescapable for the women in the family. Not to say that men have it completely easy The family is usually the place where toxic and extended family alike, and the consequences and social health of men for the rest of their Some men go on to perpetuate this oppressive while unmarried men are often alienated from is why they tend to die far sooner. But loneliness under the reign of the nuclear Particularly in the US, 35% of Americans over are becoming all too common, with no close that I speculate may rise in countries with Marriage is not some harmless or neutral institution Don't get me wrong, marriage is appealing, the promise of security, companionship, and But long term partnership does not necessitate Marriage just happens to be sanctified and It is a contract to bind two people together, but by those institutions. It is an institution privileged by social the accolade of respectability. It is a tradition that carries with it the patriarchal authority, even as it has been It is seen as the pinnacle of human social viewed as less meaningful. It remains a deeply unequal social affair, despite the disappearance of the more formalized The privacy enjoyed in the nuclear family well and everyone's needs are satisfied, A toxic domestic hell where folks of all genders emotional, physical, and sexual abuse. Domestic abuse remains one of the most underreported Because freedom of association is limited prison has little chance of escape, and the total. While not unique to the nuclear family arrangement, under its form of gerontocracy. I've spoken extensively about the condition and in my collab with Khadija Mbowe, so I the suppression of our agency and reduction Children are seen as the sole property of over said property as they see fit. The family's role is to "domesticate" the status quo. And speaking of the status quo, because the heteropatriarchy, consequentially, the suffering Queer youth who do not conform to the expectations at a high risk for physical, psychological, suicide, homelessness, and drug abuse. Many are left with no escape. And as for queer adults, they're often seen or "the children." Even in some "progressive" spaces, assimilation Queer folks are expected to convince the mainstream quo in order to gain acceptance. Because the nuclear family is so privileged, And because people outside of it are disadvantaged, even as it leaves the world bereft. To quote The Anti-Social Family by Michele "It is indeed a major agency for caring, to undertake other forms of care. It is indeed a unit of sharing, but in demanding tend to become more mercenary. It is indeed a place of intimacy, but in privileging outside world cold and friendless, and made and trust except with kin. Caring, sharing and loving would be more widespread Take for example, nurseries, children's and old people's homes. They're seen as second-best to "normal But they don't need to be. They can be stimulating spaces of cooperation, We just need to push past the overvaluation arrangements. The nuclear family of the 1950s cannot be back. It's time to experiment with intimate social Feminists have been stereotyped as anti-family, of contemporary family life fails to realize collectivity, and individual autonomy. These are still valuable ideals, but they're We must find alternatives. The good news is that we can. As we've seen, humans are adaptable creatures, response to different material conditions. We just need to be brave enough to let go which in this case may in fact be a revitalization Part III: Rethinking Family an agency for the reproduction of capitalist patriarchy, etc, but we are also confronting most privileged to the most marginalized, How can we maintain the integrity of our critique I believe the best way to do so is to break family and support for the family. The problems with the family and the appeal We cannot approach discussion of the former And we cannot approach solutions to the former latter. If our long term goal is for major social social, and material support beyond the family those ends and demonstrate the potential of But you may be wondering, is it even possible and develop something better? Let's take a look at the Mbuti example. The Mbuti Example gatherer-hunter society living in the Ituri They're not all the same height, they don't all do the exact same things. They're egalitarian in the sense of equal community, regardless of gender or age. They have a very lenient division of labour of the same activity, with folks working together Aside from their words for mother and father, pronouns, and even when they form exclusive do not prohibit extra-marital sex or love. As I mentioned in Part I, the societies that of patriarchy have been those who specifically So gender-levelling rituals are practiced developments. For example, they engage in a game of tug a member of the other side would "switch Gender fluidity has been observed in other The Mbuti stave off the development of gerontocracy age groups: infants, children, youth, adults, Each age group has power, autonomy, and an society. The youth, for example, call out conflicts who provide the most sustenance, while the I don't point to the Mbuti, or any other them exactly. Obviously not, we live in different contexts egalitarian ends will look different in many But I introduce their example to indicate and to provide inspiration for potential radical Radical Alternatives We cannot radically transform kinship as we as a whole. The alternatives I present here are not enough are, to me at least, steps in the right direction. In combination with, and I can't stress practices, like revolutionary student and of choice available to people. Co-housing and collaborative community building I envision. We can modify existing architecture and build Whether for young parents, singles, childless the elderly, or a combination of all of them, of privacy and shared space, can allow us These spaces, whether kitchens, workshops, can also allow for a more widespread distribution Take for example Temescal Commons in Oakland, families founded a consensus-based co-housing hospitality, community, and sustainability. They began as a Christian community but expanded laundry, workshop, and industrial-size kitchen. They also share dinners twice a week and care I think our community relationships should form of friendship, where people choose how than slotting people into particular roles We should also recognize that people have Some people want a lot of togetherness and and privacy. Some people are in the middle of that spectrum, People should find what works for them. But how do we create these co-housing communities, become more integrated? Temescal Commons shares less than half an least we know it is possible to create these commune. Honestly, I think it can start with conversations. Get together with neighbours and get together looking for, what people need. Start small with cookouts and see how you If you're in an apartment, organize with bargaining power and push your tenants union rent strikes and taking the building for yourselves. The especifist practice of social insertion also help. Your tenants union can build towards coordinating of horizontally organized collectives, using to fight landlords and also reclaim power It's going to take a lot of work for dual for autonomous popular associations, but they of organized counter-power to the rule of It may also be possible for some to use crowdfunding and put their land and housing into their may be a viable option. The squatting movement has a long and storied arrangement, but the lesson of said history "squat the empties." If people fight to occupy the many residential and unused, they develop an understanding an obstacle to our collective liberation. Housing aside, we can also explore a diversity Collective child rearing, as seen in Israel's kids to be exposed to a variety of opinions, that would enhance their autonomy, cultivate A formalized, but non-religious form of godparenting allow folks who don't have or want children generation. Parents would, of course, be able to enjoy many emotions that parenting elicits. Platonic parenting cooperatives are another responsibilities and raise kids together. Whatever approach one chooses, it's clear children and parents to flourish. In What Kinship Is-And Is Not by Marshall are largely established in life, by active from sharing food to sharing names to sharing Considering the variety we observe in cultures formation is limited only by the human imagination. We can continue this tradition by forging commitment as we transcend blood relations of family. Better ways of living and relating are possible, to create them. Peace.