Isn't putting two-factor codes Hi, everyone. askleo.com. Got a question related to my recent discussions on two-factor That is simply this. Surely having 2FA in 1Password along with your username password If 1Password is compromised, the hacker then has login details Technically, yes, although there's actually an argument However, we need to discuss exactly why to keep your two-factor In my case, that's 1Password. The This question relies on what I consider to be an extremely If 1Password is compromised or replace 1Password with whatever to also support two-factor codes Compromising one password just isn't Remember, your data They have no way to decrypt it. They don't. Only you, when you know your password, They don't save your password. They don't have any a recovery mechanism other than the information you What that means is in the, again, password itself were breached, They would get an encrypted blob of data Now, the other scenario, don't think about this one, is that the hackers breach 1Password, they surreptitiously make Such that the password manager, sends off your information I am more than happy to believe that random people, random hackers, to the 1Password code without So the data breach is highly unlikely. A malicious change of your password It's all just extremely unlikely. So what are some possible ways that this could, in theory, Well, consider this scenario. You're using 1Password as both your Someone walks up to your computer They will need either your 1Password master password or your Windows Hello pin, or potentially they would have to have in order to access anything that's You can basically set 1Password to automatically lock itself as little as That tends to be a little inconvenient. I set mine to something But the bottom line here is, especially if you're in an environment walking up to your computer, That way, they have no way Both of your passwords Now, This is where there's a potential Consider instead passwords, but you're using Well, somebody walks up to your computer. 1password is locked the way However, authy typically is not. Authy can also be locked down with a pin and a timeout, but typically, What that means is if somehow they already into your 1Password, What this means to me is that having them both in 1Password, locked by either your or your Windows Hello is slightly codes in a separate app that might Ultimately, What we've discussed so far requires You almost have to be targeted. It's easier for hackers to do things like get you to click on a fishing link, if you land on a page that looks to you log into, your password, and your two-factor code who could then use it to sign Attachments are the other approach. Malware is easy to get on your machine if you're not careful with attachments What that means is a hacker could send malware and if successfully installed, Then it could be monitoring your keystrokes, doing whatever the heck it including capturing things like IDs, But those, than where you happen to store The fact that you've It means that knowing your password isn't Now, it all really does come back to you. Passwords are decrypted by your password What that means is that you You need to do the things you already probably are doing and know how to do to keep your machine and your One of the pushbacks I often get is that people will ask, Okay, No, there's nothing you can It doesn't exist. There is risk associated with absolutely everything, What we try to do with all of these Reducing the risk to a point where your account is more effort than it's so that they then move Could your account still be hacked? Like I said, there are some very slim form of two-factor can be hacked, And convenience of using two-factor, I say that because what's important If having your two-factor codes in your makes it easier for you to use two-factor then by all means, it's a great way Now, if you feel safer using a separate app, a mobile app, Google Authenticator, You're using two-factor. You've made me very happy. But in terms of the difference between to store those two-factor codes, that significant in terms of security, depending on how convenient So bottom line, do what you think works best for you, but above all, For updates, for comments, for links related to this topic askleo.com/168687. I'm Leo Notenboom, and this is askleo.com. Thanks for watching.