Which activities are the most of competence in a language? So the relationship between and where we are in the do you do to learn a language?&quot; &quot;What do I do when I'm starting out?&quot; &quot;What do I do if I want to We are all at different And therefore, to some extent, What is my situation? Because I can only talk about what I do. So first of all, when it comes to the sort recognized reference points, like Reference, which has six levels of beginner, B1, B2, which is intermediate, And these can be for writing, for To some extent, it gives you an idea But I have a lot of trouble with that. I prefer to see our levels in a When we start, we're very much We're sort of translating from our own in terms of our own language, get more comfortable Some people talk about &quot;interlanguages,&quot; we're sort of in between the new language I don't think that's particularly helpful. I think we just gradually get better and gradient. And also we might be better in And so to arbitrarily say, you know, &quot;I'm a And while I say that, So I always think in terms of getting to of fluent to the extent that I can use I'm going to make mistakes. Knowing that don't understand. But I'm communicating. To me, that's sort of you're launched you are a total beginner, like zero, at zero, or you're still very much language, that's the sort of beginner. Then you've got B2, which to me And then somewhere in between those two level. In Canada, for whatever They call it the &quot;Canadian Language tie a particular job to level five. And they try to describe in to do in a particular level. And I think this is You know, sometimes we do Depending on what we've been exposed types of contexts than in others. It's more or less the same idea. We go from nothing, from And if we are a non-native speaker, there language skill, even after we're launched. And we just continue to So when I'm a complete beginner, and at LingQ, because that's what I use is, I would go out and buy two or three Living Language, Colloquial, Assimil, They have a little lesson, they have a vocabulary have some grammatical explanations work your way through the lesson. And if you listen to that, and then the go back to the first one and you keep get a bit of a sense of the language. Of course, by doing three different from three different sources. It's what I often refer to as &quot;grazing.&quot; You're kind of covering the That's a very effective way to learn. Because if we are constantly using the same material into our brains, As Spitzer always says, the brain likes So you keep it fresh You don't want to cover too broad a You want it to be more or less... It's high frequency vocabulary so that you can kind of get somewhere. I think any learning content we have, familiar with the new so that we're not we have the feeling that we're trying grabbed it, then it's gone, you know? And that's how we designed the each lesson, the same verbs, the We need this level of repetition at the books that I used to use don't have from the train station to the doctor's whatever they usually do in those books. So as a beginner, I like to be in content lot of repetition. And I end up listening over and over and over again until I That is the pattern. And even after having completed one promise you that you'll be at B1 or require so much input in the language. And to the extent that we have means we're left with a lot of lower-frequency vocabulary And therefore we're very limited So it doesn't take you to B2 or level in the language, if we stay Now, if I'm going to study a language there are two possible situations. Either I'm in the midst of learning that I learned before and I left it The approach is essentially the same. I want to go to content that is a little Some of that, which I then vary Stories with a lot of repetition. I am particularly fond of Sentence Review about how the brain learns languages. focusing more on that particular sentence. And we can hear the sentence again, that sentence. And then we review the words immediately after that sentence. So there's a certain level of things, and all of that helps to And then in the Sentence Review, sentence, which means drawing on our... we're looking at the words there. But we're having to form a sentence. The words have been scrambled. We have to put them back together It's a very good discipline for of the language and also sort of vocabulary that we have just met. So I find that a tremendous exercise, particularly as we progress to kind good sense of how the language works. I don't spend all my time doing just plain listening and reading, But I find that that &quot;nuts and bolts, bits That's kind of at the intermediate level. But once you get past that, now You're into reading books. You're into extensive And that's the only way you're &quot;I have studied this language and I can language&quot; to being really comfortable. And being a smooth speaker, writer, and forth. You have to consume a lot of it. And that's the extensive stage. That's the reward. Every stage in the process is a reward. I love doing my Sentence Review, even as But then eventually when I'm able to that's where the big payback comes.