Ronaldinho has been sent to the discard dungeon and there's only one way to get him out... I have to use these player picks and if I win Ronaldinho - is there's just one tiny detail when I open these player picks, I can't see pick one has been opened what - 92 pace to start! we're 100% taking that who is that? Zhegrova - doesn't matter still this is the best start to one of can we go back to back special cards... we can't 82 pace, 53 pace and 75 pace there's only one choice here Morata, not bad we have a decent striker let's hope he can stay on side usually I never get enough defenders in 70, 70 and 80 I'm not going to take the one I already own ,so Vlahovic, but it's another striker to be honest we need two strikers, so it works what's it going to be this time... 79, 71 and 59 this is but I have a weird feeling to take the 59 you know what no - we're not going 79 pace, lock it in Alaba what a pick! thank goodness I went with that one who's 59 pace? Eriksen, oh thank goodness so far I've only been opening but I do have some better ones, we're come on special card show yourselves! 85 plus player pick and this I think we're going to have to go with 76 I do not want 50 or 49 pace in this team right back! Trent Alexander Arnold let's go we're actually getting good defenders for once get in there! so far none of the players we and that's a really good thing because the letter R is cursed if at any point I get a player that is an own goal I have to score I'm going to try the 85 plus player pick again we haven't seen one for a while here we don't have one I don't really think there's a bad choice here I guess maybe just I keep but that is the best strategy I think who is under pick number one? Joao Cancelo! oh look at this backline it's actually OP already I got the best one as well hopefully the luck remains for the 81 pluses now it seems like I have forgotten it says that if a card is already owned I cannot so I have to take pick number three who is it... right back again rules are the rules now I do also have an icon player pick hopefully we can get something crazy in there what is next... 85 - 93 but we can't even take it who could that be? Vini Jr. is 95 Mbappe is 97... we're going to take 85 but first Lozano okay not bad not bad and we get Gulacsi we have a keeper! I completely forgot we need a keeper! this is probably the best I can't believe we still haven't gotten hopefully I didn't jinx it we're going to take 84 we got Palazon, let's go I also have this player pick it's 88 plus, it's I think we're going to open this show me some big pace... 89, 88 and 84 could that be how many times I've been baited with this card we're going to lock it in, we're taking number one first who was in pick number three... Roberto Firmino - that was an R! we missed the R! number two... Majri... please be Neymar NEYMAR! we finally got him! how much is this card I think finally the FIFA gods have blessed my account! he's not even 2 million coins still that is a CRAZY player pick! Ronaldinho - we're going to save you! now as long as we don't get any but we're going to have to take please don't be R... I swear to you this is literally don't smile at me look at this 61, 62 and 63 luckily we can take whichever one we want I'm going to take the highest one with who do we got Casemiro! great centre-defensive mid, 89 rated the luck is in today the choice has been made Sterling - as long as it's not an R I'm taking it 69 or 72 we're going to take 69 for the meme meme don't do me dirty... Koke - another decent centre mid left wing would be good in this one no options really... 66 pace I hope that's not our winger! Maanum I guess we have our Midfield eight picks remain, we're one own goal in 74 is our only choice here seven picks remain and I have one 92 pace... who could that be? was Zhegrova 92 pace? I think he but it doesn't say duplicate of course thank goodness we didn't take the middle one it would have been another wow look at these Paces all BOOM - Almiron what?! he's only 81 rated? come on show me a good pace... 76, is Ronaldo 76 pace? we can pick another one anyways Hofmann I thought there is way more players three more before the icon pick 51, 59 and 78 - we're going to take the Hagel, not bad if we took number one, that two picks before the icon 88 pace! who in the world is this? we're taking it Chawinga she always somehow ends up back in my club now the final pick before we open the icon as long as we don't get an R it's a dub 64, 79 and 83 we only can take the 64 one pick number three was... Clauss number two is Pacheco and number one is... Scott! let's go 88 plus icon player pick has been opened... 79 91 and 90 which one do we take?! I think we have to take the highest one who is in the middle? first wait no that's a thunder struck I think they're all special actually okay we're going to take number two we're number one was. Nesta, okay I'm fine with that number three is... Michael Owen I think we got the best one and the final player pick to finish Sanchez you know what he's still a good card, I didn't it doesn't matter that he's only 170,000 coins I think he was still more this is how I'm lining up to save Ronaldinho and I actually thought the team we only have realistically three special cards but they're the ones who are now let's see how the opponent's lining up Dudek in net, Coman, Cannavaro, Stanway, Pele we can do this we can save Ronaldinho, this isn't a great team first we got to score that own goal though they better not celebrate, okay good now we can play Neymar, Neymar, please please! what a goal! it's 1-1 in the eighth minute! grab the ball, grab the ball, what a giveaway what a mistake Ruben Neves to penalty it's a penalty! we cannot mess this up Ruben Neves to make up for that own goal... please - please work please work no - yes it worked! how did that hit him with it, hit him with it I love I said they better not we need an insurance goal here what a mistake - finish! yes! what was he doing!? and then the rage quits incoming! please, please, please Ronaldinho is safe! if you enjoyed this video you and check out this video right here I'll see you guys soon PEACE:)