The results are in and they're not what you'd expect. Linguists have cut through the noise to find or pose an assault on the senses. So what's the final verdict? Well, they're going to tell us. Is Italian the ideal and German just a bit KRANKENWAGEN! Is the sound of Hindi heavenly and Mandarin Find out NOW in another RobWords. By the way, this video's sponsor is italki, as you'll find out. Google "what's the world's ugliest language" and over. Ditto if you ask what's the most beautiful But read a little deeper and the reasons that So that's something this guy and a couple decided to change. What's up with languages? Why do we find that some languages just seem Basically, what Niklas and his team wanted about the sound of the languages people say or ugly. And it seems like there is. Tolkein wanted Elvish to sound lovely, and [Speaks in Elvish] Whereas Star Trek's malevolent Klingons [Gangnam Style in Klingon] What was that? But are those sounds associated with beauty ear, or is there another reason? Obviously there are some prejudices when it At least people say that if a language has of the mouth, like chh and stuff like that, to sound very nice. There are these situations, like you would or German is ugly and French is beautiful. But the interesting thing is that many of throat sounds, for example, I mean, in French Like a rrr, and that's considered beautiful with a chh and that's considered not beautiful. So there's something more going on here. We try to put all these things to the side It's very explorative, the study. So stay tuned to find out how they did that. But first, let's look at those preconceptions. Why does Italian for example have this reputation Well I've been seeking out my own answers And after showing off my cat, I got her view. One of the things that people say perhaps language is its association with certain artforms. Yes. Do you think that's true? Is it because we're used to hearing opera Italy has a really really rich history with also with music because many words in musical For example. Veloce, lento, alto, and most of my students And I'm like, yes, definitely, if you're So the point is, it's what we associate attractive we find it. I reckon that's probably the case with German By the way, I found Daya and another teacher italki, the sponsors of this video. italki is this excellent website and app where of high quality native speaking teachers, Pick the language you want to learn, look to you, and choose one that suits your schedule It took me absolutely no time to find Daya Italian has really good phonetics, actually. Easy. However you're writing it, that's the Exceptions made for two or three letters together, fluid when you try to speak it. The great thing is there are no subscriptions, lessons start at only $5! Millions of people use italki to start their So why don't you? They've given me a special promo code ROBWORDS italki credit purchase of $10 or more. Click on the links in the description to find RIght, so cultural factors are clearly a major attractive. So the same must also be true for the other Let me launch into a quick defence of German, You've probably seen those videos where sounds compared with other languages . SCHMETTERLING! But any language is going to sound abonimable just spilt your pint of Pilsener FLUFFY CUSHION!! Can you honestly say objectively that schmetterling butterfly? I think it's kind of cute. It's smushy and soft. And the ling at the end is adorable, like Aww. Or do you think perhaps... just bear with me here... perhaps that fact of the 20th century might have had some impact The fact that it's the language of countless Although, to be fair, Mark Twain was describing But he was talking about what a pain it is So how can you get an idea of how attractive elements clouding the picture? It was a bit of a hassle in the beginning. Niklas and his team set themselves a tough They wanted to find a way to ask lots of people thought about lots of different languages. We were looking around for, I think, years then we stumbled upon this film, which was I assume is missionary reasons. They were tales from the bible told in tongues [Jesus dubbed into Tok Pisin language] The team played over 2000 recordings from from three groups. So one was English first language speakers, , Mandarin and Cantonese and some other varieties so that would be Arabic and Hebrew in this And these three different rater groups are world than just having English speakers as And what Niklas and the team did was ask them how much they liked the sound of them. So... let's get to it. What did they find? So let's talk about the results and down to Are some languages objectively more attractive Yes and no. I mean, the raters used the scale from one were about 35 for the least pleasant language So the range there is pretty small. We did find some patterns when it comes to There were more agreement when it came to for some reason. Oh, that's interesting. So there are languages that are potentially There are two points to this. The first point is that two languages that these are Caucasian languages and they are pronounce consonants. Let's hear how they sound... [speech in Chechen] [speech in Avar] What do you think? Let me know your thoughts on that and indeed The team also found another interesting pattern Tonal languages, on average, scored lower So tonal languages are languages like Mandarin with a certain inflection in your voice. Ma, ma, ma, ma. Otherwise, what you're saying won't make And it seems those tones maybe don't make And that wasn't just the view of speakers This effect was strongest for the Chinese That's interesting. All of the Chinese languages that we use were So, if you have a language, in this case Chinese have tones themselves in their mother tongue, And that's interesting. One of those other tonal languages is Thai. A language I don't know very well, but my So, ah, to say "hello" in Thai we say Sawass-dee Swasdi. He's a Thai teacher and did his best - completely of Thai. Gaa, gaa. Gaa, gaa. And presumable, gaa means something different I'm sounding like Lady Gaga. [sings Bad Romance by Lady Gaga] So embarrassing Most of my students, they say oh it's just You have to go up and down, low, middle, down Something like that. So you might have to think of it as like a appear to make it music to the ears. Maybe the reason why you find it less melodic, there are so many differences happening on So, this is just a theory, but it could have lot of different consonants in a cluster and as well, then you get a very chopped up kind way of how it sounds like. Okay, enough of this negativity. What did Niklas and his team learn about the Well what they found was the biggest factor beautiful was not actually what it sounded it. The people taking part on average rated a if they thought they already knew what it Even though, actually, they were wrong about For example, the three highest rated languages Mandarin, English, the language the study For the Semitic language speakers, the top widely known and recognised languages. Arabic was fourth, incidentally. And for the English speakers, guess what came Why, English, of course! Second was our friend Italian. And third was Jamaican Patois... also known Jamaican Creole English. So the researchers tried to account for that that too many of the participants recognised. But even then, it was hard to escape. There were some Creole languages or Pidgin are usually based on English or French. For example a surprise frontrunner was a language New Guinea. It's a Creole, which is a language usually in a country - in this case, from England way of speaking. In fact the name Tok Pisin ultimately means And here's how it sounds. [Speech in Tok Pisin] So you might not have heard it before, but Then you of course have a very high familiarity because many of the words you will recognize, exact language, "oh this sounds like a strange recognise it." The familiarity bias also comes into play So the short answer is: not great. BUT our theory that cultural factors are at German was so widely recognised that they it. However, they did find that other rarely-recognised a lot of the characteristics that people say Languages like its Germanic cousin, Icelandic. [Newsreader speaking Icelandic] So maybe we can stop picking on German for Dankeschon. As well as redeeming Deutsch... at least, The experiment produced some additional side What Niklas and his team had also incidentally voices we like the sound of, irrespective When they looked across the clips that did We did find, for example, that female voices voices were more liked than non breathy voices, the background that was also liked. But it could be other factors that has to grasp. And if all the voice actors had that in one it's actually the voice that lowered the ratings Ah, so actually, these additional factors the languages were given, as well as that But for fun, let's just try something out... So if you wanted to maximize the score that give it? So we'd use a language that the listener is We'd use a female voice, ideally a breathy Any other characteristics that you could put? Some music in the background. Music in the background. Yeah, music in the background. And you would also probably I think that you it's the familiarity effect, it's very strong. You have to think about what that means, because language, or I think, I've heard about this But the languages you usually heard about influential. Right. Like English. So among the familiar languages, you should world, basically, and has a lot of exposure So we're back to English, right. Hold on, so arguably the person in the world is Marge. [Marge Simpson:] Oh Homie, take your shirt So, you see, there are all kinds of factors try to arbitrarily claim one language is beautiful It's okay to think French or Italian are we do, we have to realise that we're not There's obviously loads more work to be his team. Biases that still need to be accounted for. But nevertheless, I think the insights are This is the biggest study that has been done So it's all steps towards more understanding. There is never any final goal to anything. It's just understanding more and more and more, basically. Thanks to Niklas for talking us through things. If you've enjoyed this, I think you'll I think it's a fun one. Otherwise, maybe give this one a go. And please so subscribe, I have so much more If you do sign up to italki I can recommend They're are both lovely people. And you're lovely for watching. Thanks.