Gingerbread is perhaps my favorite running food history channel I decided and what i found out shook me to my core... It got Early gingerbread was neither Okay. I'm sorry about that. Regardless of early we eat today, I decided, nevertheless, to make my own medieval gingerbread. This time on Tasting History. (Me during the holidays) Now you might notice that today is not my usual channel 'How To Make Everything' reached out and let from scratch in the way that it would have been to use it in a recipe, I kind of had to jump at the which has a lot of spices to grind really take So thank you so much to the team at 'How To Make Everything' for sending me this wonderful mortar and pestle and make sure to watch the video where they actually make it So as I mentioned, I'm doing gingerbread but today's Though, unlike some medieval recipes at least this To Make Gingerbread - Take good honey and clarify it on the fire, and take fair pandemayn or wastel bread and grate it, and cast it into the boiling honey. And stir it well together fast with the skylse that it burned not to the vessel. And then take it down and put there in ginger, long pepper, and saunders, and temper it up with thin hands. And then and pick therein cloves roundabout by the edge So, I left that original spelling because 90% of those words I think that we can kind of figure out what they mean. And any that weren't you know obvious Anyway this medieval gingerbread recipe from confectionary or almost candy-like than bread like. especially that kind of soft, cakey Interesting thing about that gingerbread is that one of the actually came from Amelia Simmons' 'American Cookery' same book that has one of the first recipes for a So I guess we owe a lot to Miss Amelia Simmons for holiday baking. But as for our medieval gingerbread what you'll need is: 1 cup or 330 grams of honey, one half loaf or 250 grams of white bread. A note about both of these ingredients; don't feel like you have going to vary depending on what kind of bread really very dry because we're going to make make bread crumbs then you can just buy 1 tablespoon dried ginger, 3/4 teaspoon long pepper, a half teaspoon sandalwood. And a note on all three of those ingredients; those amounts again you can I really want a strong ginger flavor so I'm using quite a bit of ginger, but if you you know, change those amounts. There is no rule the As for the saunders or sandalwood, it's hard so if you want you can just add some red food that you don't have to do. So you can feel free difference when it comes to taste. A fourth cup or even less of sugar. It's just enough to sprinkle on the top. And several whole cloves for decoration. You can also use some gold leaf for this recipe. Again you don't have to; it's not mentioned in times they often would bedight their gingerbread led to the English phrase &quot;Take the gilt off the So I'm going to be using just a little bit because I do think it's pretty. So first things first, let's put our mortar and pestle to use. So break up the bread with your hands into large grind them into fine bread crumbs. Then grind your dried ginger and your long pepper. So the ginger actually ground up really easily; it took The long pepper, less easy. Has less to do with pepper is just hard to grind and that's one reason rather than a mortar and pestle at the table. Once everything is ground up, pour the honey into a saucepan and set it over medium heat until it's Now, you may recall, if you watched my video on mead, there was a word in the recipe, &quot;lengh&quot;, which And I actually had some wonderful linguists reach out And all fascinating but nothing was definitive. later. Not even. 100 years later and the word leng part. So I'm curious if leng ended up meaning which would have made sense in that original interesting etymologically which is probably why Now when it comes to the honey most honey that you're not going to have to skim anything off then there might be some things at the top that you Then once it's boiling, add in your bread crumbs So here's where you need to be a little bit flexible with that you're going to add can vary, so I would add too many at once, but you can add just come away from the sides of the pot. That's the add more you can also always add more honey ...it's fine. Then turn off the heat and you can go ahead and taste a little bit at this Then take the mixture out of the pan and put Then roll it out until it's nice and smooth. At this point you want to let it firm up for a few hours or even overnight which should give us plenty of time to became this gingerbread. &quot;They brought him first the sweet wine and mead that was full fine, and licorice, and also cumin, Now that was from Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales written see that this was not a treat for the masses, but And while not always necessarily royal, gingerbread luxury item since their introduction to Europe. According to legend, in 992 the Armenian monk, Gregory of Nicopolis, brought a honey and spice eaten in ancient Rome and even ancient Greece, &quot;...his guests, on tasting he cake believed they were experiencing all the delights of Heaven.&quot; But what Gregory brought probably didn't actually have any ginger in it, but was what the French would later call pain d'espices or spice bread. But ginger or no, spiced cakes began cropping up all over northern Europe. Pfefferkucken or pepper cake in Germany, which oddly or Piernik Torunskie or Torun gingerbread from Poland which did being baked in 1380 around the same time as our century, the monks of Nuremberg began creating a cake so seriously that in the 15th century, they Essentially other than Christmas and except for the bakers in the guild. And according the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick III, in an effort to bolster his popularity, had four thousand lebkuchen molded in his likeness for the children of the city. Following Frederick's foray into propagandistic baked goods, Queen Elizabeth I herself, decided to Supposedly, at one of these grand feasts that the of gingerbread men, and perhaps gingerbread women, Now we don't know a lot about why but I like to imagine that it was Elizabeth's telling people what she thought of them at any given time. &quot;Here is your gingerbread And Sir Walter Raleigh... the resemblance is uncanny.&quot; Queen Elizabeth was not the only Elizabethan enamored with gingerbread for at the same time &quot;An had I but one penny in the world, thou shouldst have it to buy gingerbread.&quot; So by now you could buy gingerbread for just a penny which actually, while still rather more of the population. So it's no wonder that cropping up in a lot of the recipe books for the And small versions that were kind of like modern ginger biscuits were actually being sold at fairs all around Britain. And still to this day in Cornwall something called But to see gingerbread really come into its artistic for gingerbread and springerle molds. Now used on intricately carved wooden molds is up for some Some say Torun, Poland. Some say Schwabia, Germany. But regardless of where they came from often be as large as three feet tall. I have always so maybe by next Christmas I'll have one and Now there is a 12th century french poem that with its unfortunate modern homonym. Instead plenty and opulent foods that crops up all through And in this poem a peasant is dreaming of a land where the streets were paved with pastry.&quot; Sounds just delightful. So seven hundred years after this poem, two brothers decided to retell the &quot;Das Marchen vom Schlaraffenland.&quot; And perhaps it was one of fairy tale that these two wrote about a not very Christmassy you say. But the Grimm tradition of decorating gingerbread houses around Europe, and even in the Americas all through the Now I can tell you that our Medieval gingerbread's consistency is not going to make Paul Hollywood always says on the Great British Bake &quot;It all comes down to taste.&quot; So once your gingerbread is cooled and firmed up a bit go ahead and straw or scatter a bit of sugar over Now at this point you can cut it up however you want. I ended cookie cutters or even have some sort of stamp and Then you can go ahead and decorate it So here we are: Medieval Gingerbread. Now the interesting thing with the clove is I'm guessing people weren't eating full cloves, because that's minutes, I'm thinking it's going to give it quite a through it doesn't take much clove is really So let's give this a try. The nice thing is if there's any gold on it you can Let's have a go. Hmm. Very candy-like. It's a little grittier than I might like. Lots of ginger which is what I want. Really nice... really comes through there's a that dried ginger that I ground up. If you little candy, because that's what they are. They're But they're really nice. I wouldn't equate it So one thing I wanted to mention is that Tasting History now has a Discord, If you're on Discord and want to talk more about food and go ahead and join our Tasting History Discord. So thank you again to the team over at How To Make Everything for sending me the wonderful mortar additional video this Christmas season and I will see you next time on Tasting History.