This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries using the link in the description. Fifty years ago, giant hovercraft were the They were a new kind of machine that could about any other surface. And they were fast, capable of reaching one The largest could transport sixty cars and These giants once promised to revolutionize But today, they've all but disappeared. To understand what made hovercraft so revolutionary, In fact, they share more in common with aircraft That's because hovercraft are essentially They work using the principles of lift and To lift off and hover, fans trap a cushion move forward. And what it all means is that friction and water a hovercraft to hit speeds well beyond that But speed isn't the only advantage. Because no other vehicle can match a hovercraft's Out at sea, in shallow water, on ice, or in can. Where's there's no harbor, a hovercraft ship would run aground. Hovercraft were a brilliant innovation. And in the 1960s, a hover transport revolution When the first hovercraft debuted in the summer to almost magically float over any surface. Its designer, a brilliant British engineer to dream up the idea of a hovercraft. But modern hovercraft wouldn't be possible the Momentum Curtain. Earlier attempts at building hovercraft involved work very well and required a lot of power. Cockerell's innovation was to direct a ring trapping high pressure air. Which allowed the craft to hover much higher In 1959, Cockerell and two others piloted across the English Channel. But it would take another key innovation to In 1961, another British engineer proposed would allow it to hover much higher off the With the flexible skirt, hovercraft could And it sent British Aircraft builders racing Almost overnight, the first small scale hovercraft Britain. In just few short years, hovercraft would that could carry hundreds of passengers By the mid-1960s a hovercraft craze had swept And countries like the United States and France But the British were at the forefront, and They had not only built Cockerell's original military designs. And in 1963, Saunders Roe set out to build One that would be four times larger than previous ferries. On the English Channel, a ferry needed about A hovercraft would cut the trip down to just crossings. The new giant hovercraft would be designated And it would operate more like an airliner flight engineer and navigator, along with In standard configuration, it would carry for 609 passengers No one had ever attempted to build a hovercraft The engineering and economic risks were enormous. The world's largest hovercraft debuted in Britain and France on the English Channel. On board, high profile guests included Princess Passengers marveled at the all-British achievement But what no one yet realized, was that the apart beneath them. Attachments designed to contour to waves, sending repair crews scrambling to replace And just three days into service a large wave for nearly a week. And was really just the start of problems. Crossings were regularly canceled due to mechanical But an even bigger issue was the weather. The SR.N4 was rated for waves of just two And on the English Channel, it didn't take In its first three months of service, more The debut hadn't gone well. And in October of 1968, the SR.N4 was pulled modifications. Unreliable and seemingly unsuitable for open hovercraft was in doubt. Despite the disastrous debut, cross-Channel the traveling public. And by the time the SR.N4 was put back into solved. And the skirt had been redesigned to better By mid-1970, there were two carriers operating And, they could barely keep up with demand, But there was still a problem. Neither carrier, was actually making money. Because the SR.N4's burned a thousand gallons And maintenance costs were astronomical compared To offset high operating costs, both carriers passenger and vehicle capacity by widening By 1978, the largest hovercraft could carry The increased capacity helped make giant hovercraft By the end of the decade, hovercraft were traffic. But as the 1980s approached, large civilian engineer could solve. If the iconic hovercraft were in operation to cross the English Channel. Faster than conventional diesel ferries, or Faster than even the Channel Tunnel which But it wouldn't have mattered. The hovercraft as a form of transport, really In the early 1960s, they had captivated the speed. But that speed came at the cost of just about Compared to conventional ferries, hovercraft in rough weather, and less comfortable. And it meant that by the end of the 1960's, off. And Britain's once booming hovercraft industry To make matters worse, fuel prices skyrocketed Putting a final nail in the coffin, ensuring widely adopted as transport. And it meant that the enormous SR.N4's would design. But in the 1980's they would face increasingly which had wide enough profit margins to continually Giant hovercraft could no longer compete, in 1994. But no vehicle can match a hovercraft's Which is why these awesome machines remain industry, and rescue services, even as the by the year 2000. But many argue that hover technology never And in the 1960s, Cockerell and British engineers transport that would hover on a cushion of an hour. They were called Tracked Hovercraft, and they world, even to this day. By 1972, engineers had developed the necessary and prototype train. They were seemingly on the cusp of reinventing But their efforts have almost entirely been You can learn more about the incredible story available right now on Nebula. Nebula is where you can watch a growing number topics like the insane Soviet plan to develop It's a streaming platform where you can watch hundred top educational creators whoupload Not the cheap clickbait videos favored by But the best part about Nebula is that it's a streaming service featuring thousands of A recent favorite of mine is Machinery of war machines used in modern history. For a limited time, get access to both Nebula by going to curiositystream.com/mustard and sign up.