This episode of Real Engineering is brought Watch the latest episode of our new series just 14.79 a year. In 1969, a pioneering vision of the future In a few years time, the sight of the concorde will be common place if all goes well. Then there will be 130 passengers on board. Flying times will be cut iby half. London to New York from 7 hours 40 minutes The juxtaposition between this dated footage It's hard to believe passengers, 40 years were flying across the Atlantic at the speed The Concorde was well ahead of its time. An anomaly in the history of commercial travel. A byproduct of misguided government funding, Aerospatiale, and it's development funded to the tune of 2.8 billion dollars. [1] The Concordes legacy is marred by its commercial triumph of ingenuity. Nothing remotely close to it had flown before, Turning what had been a military only technology thinking. This is the insane engineering of the Concorde. Intro sequence The engineers of the Concorde had several Developing a supersonic plane is difficult but developing a supersonic plane that would to serve is an entirely different ball game. Aerial refuelling makes fuel efficiency a The comfort of the plane's passengers is an to these often limited-run speciality planes Those needs are reflected in the Concordes A sleek exterior, hiding powerful engines. Engines developed from the iconic British Fuel efficiency and supersonic flight are Rolls Royce Olympus 593, when flying at Mach [2] These engines, when introduced for the Avro kilonewtons of thrust (11,000 lbs), but over Concorde, increased in thrust by over triple [3] 20% of this thrust increase was provided by reserved for military planes. Afterburners work by injecting fuel directly of the turbine section. Despite this air's journey taking it through the oxygen in the air is consumed. Leaving untapped energy in the exhaust of To capture this energy fuel can be injected and ignited. Basically acting like a rocket stage of the of the exhaust through the exhaust nozzle. However this system is useless without a controllable Typical airliner engines have a fixed nozzle, efficient at a relatively low range of subsonic But the Concorde, with its massive range of nozzles to adequately control the engine's The primary nozzle connects directly to the structures that can close or open to vary jet's exit. When the afterburner, or reheat as the British a massive increase in pressure at the engine's This increase in pressure could cause choked zone ahead of lower pressure zones will prevent To prevent that, the primary nozzle opens pressure and ensure the mass flow rate through [4] However, at times we do want to affect the The Olympus 593 was one of the world's first by the Pratt and Whitney J57 engine, by just Two spool means the engine contained two compressor each acting on their own concentric drive at different rotational speeds. The high pressure compressor was driven by compressor was driven by the low pressure the primary nozzle. When the primary nozzle was actuated it caused turbine, which would cause the low pressure This provided a method of engine control that across its wide speed range. The secondary nozzle function is just as complex. The eyelid doors look like some kind of steampunk The force these secondary nozzles had to endure Withstanding huge forces at both supersonic completely on landing to function as reverse By actuating these nozzles the plane could and thus maximise thrust, because, together diverging nozzle. Converging diverging nozzles are typically products to the optimum speed and pressure. The opposite shapes are needed because air supersonic speeds. For example, when subsonic air travels through area decreases until some critical area which This is where Mach one would be reached. At this point no further acceleration of air Now, as you would expect, if that same subsonic slows down as the duct area increases. This is Bernoulli's principle at play. The bizarre thing is, the exact opposite occurs A converging duct will result in a decrease in an acceleration. So, in order to maximise the acceleration air from the engine first through a converging mach 1 at the throat. Then we want it to pass through a diverging speeds, so it can continue to accelerate. These pair nozzles allowed Concorde to carefully flight conditions. A marvellous piece of engineering. The same principles were used for the inlet. No engine can operate with supersonic flow. The shockwaves that would form inside the So, the Olympus 593 needed some way to decelerate inlets. These squared inlets were designed to simplify subsonic flow for the engine's compressors. Inside were a series of ramps and doors that regime the intake was encountering. [5] At take off the engine required all the air to get those cumbersome delta wings to generate To funnel as much air as possible into the into their closed position. A spill door in front of the engine intake into the engine, while two bypass doors which around the engine were also closed. [6] The afterburners were also active during takeoff, enter a noise abatement stage of flight where was reduced as the plane climbed. At this point the bypass doors open up to outside of the engine. As speed increases the primary and secondary the ideal converging diverging nozzle for in the nozzles the inlet ramps actuate to and compresses the supersonic air entering The fuel consumption of supersonic flight aerodynamic drag, not thermal efficiency. This supersonic air being rammed and compressed in achieving it's high thermal efficiency. Thermal efficiency in jet engines is largely by the engine. That is the ratio of pressure between the compressor, which in the case of the Concorde An incredibly high pressure ratio. The highly efficient GEnX engines of the Boeing The Olympus 593's two spools each contained stage turbine. The low pressure and high pressure compressors a moderately high pressure ratio that would However, the pressure ratio multiplied to into the unique square inlet engines. This elevated pressure ratio resulted in extreme the use of high temperature alloys that are Titanium blades were used for the early compressor used in the even hotter later stages. [7] Cooling the drive shaft bearings became another Increasing the mass flow rate of cooling oil a safe operating temperature. Looking at the differences between the original the Concordes, hints towards some changes A centre bearing located immediately after exists in the Olympus 593, and the drive shaft in diameter in the new gap between bearings. This centre bearing had to be removed because directly after the high pressure compressor, drive shaft became too flexible. To accommodate this change, the drive shaft stiffness. [7] The Concorde is full of strange little design Solutions to unique engineering problems caused In order to decrease fuel consumption as much to be minimised. Delta wings allow wing spans to be decreased supersonic flight. However, it creates some major issues for enough lift. Making takeoffs and landings difficult. This is where the ogival delta wings of the This is a form of compound delta wing where forward section having a higher sweep angle curve going from concave to convex curves This shape allowed the Concorde to generate use of vortex lift. When flying at high angles of attack, separated two stable cone shaped vortices where air Effectively creating lift. However those high angles of attack needed problems for the pilots, whose cockpit would iconic droopsnoot. The droop snoot is a one of a kind solution. A mechanised nose that could drop by 12.5 of the runway during these high angle of attack The mechanism had four positions, controlled The top position was the fully retracted position The second position lowered a specialised windows from the heat of supersonic flight. When placed in this position the visor hydraulic to retract into the nose fairing. The next position was the 5 degree down position, Extending this hydraulic actuator. And the final setting pushes the nose down for landings. The plane also had an extendable tail landing was not needed, but was present to protect point of contact for what would normally be Tails strikes aren't all that uncommon, conditions. Some planes, like the 777, also have extendable as a strike can at best force a plane into or at worst cause serious damage to the pressure aboard at risk. In fact a tailstrike is responsible for the aviation single crash in history. In 1985, a Japan Airlines 747 flight crashed tail strike had occurred, which had not been With the high angles of attack demanded by was vital to keeping the plane safe.[9] The visor was needed during supersonic flight temperatures of around 130 degrees celsius, while cruising at an altitude of 60,000ft, -56 degrees celsius (or -70 degrees fahrenheit). The Concorde went through several design iterations The earliest prototypes simply removed the [12] But it turned out that pilots like having an option for the production model. However, a version of the droopsnoot with for the Concorde, which would have eliminated considered non-essentially, but thankfully in the final version. Working with such high temperature variations structural issues, especially with the frequency financially viable. The thermal expansion caused by these temperatures on each and every flight. The fatigue this thermal stress could cause if not properly accounted for. The first issue was finding a material capable Titanium, which was used for the SR-71, could was ruled out early. Traditional aluminium would not be capable aluminium alloy, Hiduminium RR58, developed invented gas turbine engines, could. [10] The alloy consists of copper, magnesium, silicon, percent being made up of aluminium. Although this material had been developed been used in this application. With lower average temperatures than its traditional life requirements. The parts would also be manufactured using sheets needed for the fuselage. This one process alone affected critical material Forged parts tend to have larger crystal grain forged components resist the internal crystal and heat. To adapt this material for the cold rolled Royce had to develop new manufacturing methods components. Manufacturing knowledge that has no doubt applications. [10] Now that a suitable material had been developed, was crucial. Most of this expansion was imperceptible to Interior panels could slide past each other crucially prevented stress forming as a result and cool interior. Wiring around the plane was given slack to expanded, and many components around the plane a curved shape. This allowed these parts to stretch and flatten However, one expansion gap was quite obvious As the flight approached its cruise speed and the cockpit bulkhead began to form. A gap large enough to slide your hand inside the flight engineer's cap would be placed Leaving it permanently wedged. Like the SR-71, this continual expansion and with fuel tank sealants. In order to deal with the expansion cycles Even the mundane plastic sealants on household movements from allowing drafts getting through. The issue is that high temperatures tend to expansion cycles continue the sealants begin While the temperatures the Concorde experienced a maintenance issue. The Concorde used a high temperature sealant and cracked over time. And so, approximately every 1,100 flying hours, into maintenance, which could take three weeks Maintaining the viton sealants was one of Fuel tanks would be emptied and then vented inside and manually inspect and replace sealant. This was a massive job and often required access to tanks 5A and 7A on the outermost The Concorde had 13 separate fuel tanks in Taking full advantage of the large amount Without these fuel tanks, capable of holding could not have made it across the Atlantic To put that volume into perspective, a typical commercial flight, can hold just 34,000 litres These fuel tanks played a vital role in control As speed increases, the centre of pressure force acts, tends to move backwards. : slower commercial airliners, but the Concorde's 1.8 metres. [11] More than enough to cause the plane into a nosedive dive if not accounted Usually, such a shift would be counteracted aircraft in pitch from changes in the centre tail, and adding elevons on the wing big enough in high levels of trim drag at such high speeds. SO, Concorde engineers instead used the huge this issue. As the plane approached Mach 2 fuel would tanks and into the rear trim tanks and collector Moving up to 20 tonnes of fuel rearwards and match the shift in centre of pressure. Keeping the plane balanced without adding An elegant solution, using the tools at hand The Concorde is an icon in the history of I can't help, but feel an odd sense of nostalgia Hundreds of thousands of passengers can see arriving and departing from Heathrow. Nicknamed Alpha Bravo, this concorde made of Air France 4590. It was undergoing major interior upgrades was made, stranding the plane there indefinitely. Alpha Bravo has been in limbo ever since, to prevent another disaster like Air France An unintentional monument to Britain's storied Accidental monuments like this are scattered Gigantic, no longer functional, radar towers These towers were among the first radar systems in the defence of Britain during the Battle A system that the Germans vastly underestimated, logistical and strategic systems that supported This is the story of the latest episode of deep into how Britains radar systems worked an effective intelligence system. You can get access to the entire Battle of by signing up to CuriosityStream for little With this yearly subscription to CuriosityStream documentaries on CuriosityStream and support on Nebula. This is the best way to support this channel. Nebula gives us a place to experiment in safety, audience on YouTube or being demonetized for disasters. Your support there has helped this channel exclusive content like this as our thanks. You can sign up to this amazing deal by clicking you are looking for something else to watch the incredible engineering of the Parker Solar latest video on the strange new man made lifeforms,