[upbeat music] Rachid: Hey there, and welcome back I'm your host, Rachid Finge. And if there's ever a topic that it's this one. Whatever we do, everything gets better We know that much, but it's So many people have trouble sleeping. And I can confidently So let's talk about sleep today can help you to do it better. It's so cool to have a whole group who work on our sleep products. And we're meeting two of them today. So please welcome to the Megan Jones Bell and Conor Heneghan. Megan and Conor, welcome to Megan, let's start with you. What do you work on at Google, Megan: Well, thank you so much I work on health and wellness devices, across the Google portfolio. I have the really great privilege for billions of people. Rachid: Amazing. And what's the work you do? Conor: Hi. So I work in the consumer And we basically use like the Pixel Watch, the Pixel phone, to help people achieve Rachid: Excellent. because I'm sure many people Why does Google care about Like, you know, Maybe Megan, Megan: Health is a really It goes back really to our founders' as one of the key ways of billions of people around the world. And particularly we know that we have in helping people manage and understand and be empowered with to be at their healthiest. Rachid: Today's guests are dedicated and millions of Google customers. Megan Jones Bell is a clinical director who worked at Stanford before joining Google two years ago. Megan's goal is to make health care more And Conor Heneghan who joined Google through Fitbit. Originally from Ireland, about sensors and algorithms, to make Fitbit and Pixel Watch Together, Megan and Conor can help us could help us improve our sleep. I hope you'll enjoy our talk. Let's start with the basics, Megan. Why is getting enough sleep Megan: Healthy sleep is a critical And unfortunately, one in three people Sleep is a vital human function, It's a basic drive. And it has a critical role to play promoting better brain functioning helping you make good decisions, It has a key role Also helps us be more creative helps you build muscle, have quicker The list goes on and on. And when we think about specifically, between sleep and mental well-being and that we all experience every day, depending on the amount Rachid: Definitely. just to get your sleep right. I can think about, like, mood changes-- Megan: Absolutely. of waking up on the wrong side as the expression goes, that grouchiness or irritability that comes from And there's actually a vice versa that there's this If you are stressed if you've had challenges your sleep may be, too, overall alertness and that has been activated. So that can both as well as be a result of poor sleep. And for many people, you can feel Rachid: Definitely. How does sleep tracking work I know there is a score. It is 65. I don't think that is a great score. Conor: You can--you can always improve. Rachid: Yes. So basically, what we do in the what are called And I'm sure many of your Machine learning sounds very fancy All it means is, basically, we train in most cases, but the great thing about a computer over and over at low cost, So in this particular case, the types of things that happen are they It often becomes lower and more regular. So what we've done in our algorithms from the movements, what's called an accelerometer and we have taken measurements which we collect with an optical sensor. So some of you might see that flashes inside of a smartwatch. Conor: And that heart rate changes whether you're asleep or not, when you move less, it's an indicator either asleep and in So we combine all that together into actually, I think about 60 different to come up with an estimate of Rachid: That's a lot. And then how do you train Because you have those signals, needs to understand what they mean. How do you make sure Conor: Yeah. So the way building on the work of all the So they had developed these systems So what we did is we got which was mostly internal folks, over a few months duration. We were wearing devices on our wrists. And we were also wired up and chest monitors and heart monitors. Conor: And we went through And we used that to, basically, So we knew the answer. And we then trained our to get as close as that the human expert Rachid: So you mentioned that all the time on our wrist. But how does that provide Conor: Yeah. It's really fascinating, is the green light reflects off And every time your heart beats, of arterial blood with more oxygen, and the color of the blood So with the optical sensor, in the reflected light intensity back color of your blood So effectively, we get and we can pick up the peaks. And they tell us when sort of Rachid: Wow. So you have that have a sensor that then picks up, I guess? So we have what's So effectively, it's a sensor Rachid: Excellent. a lot more convenient than having Conor: Exactly. Absolutely. Megan, I guess measuring sleep is only Have you ever struggled Megan: I sure have. And apparently, And I'm experiencing some payback, So you know, I actually spent between Europe and California. Rachid: Oh, wow. So that was a pretty dark period you know, external context. And I've done a lot to try to improve it Rachid: Yeah. So what can you control especially if, apparently, you've always Megan: So I think it comes down It starts with understanding and those leverage points or influencers to have a better or worse night's sleep. The second principle, for me, and I'll unpack that in a moment-- So when you think about that, getting--finding that leverage point, whether it's with a journal can be incredibly revealing you need to come up with ideas skip that glass of wine with dinner. Maybe having the same wake time It also gives you hope that there are a lot of different things and at night to try We all need to look at data but also not be too evaluative And what I mean there is not isn't what I need it to be, or get too focused that overachiever mentality of That brings me to that second piece, When people are exhausted, when you're those are normal emotional reactions But when we make bedtime that brings us back where unlocking that cycle that there may be nights There may be nights and you're awake You may be more tired than The best tool I've found to help you is mindfulness meditation Even 10 minutes during the day can really help you train that muscle of letting them go, just accepting the The last piece I'll mention commitment to the small choices that create better conditions Because while you can't control what you can choose to have making space for taking a walk instead of caffeine, giving yourself passing on, you know, or parking-lotting all those devices so that you can really have There are a lot of things Rachid: I think it's also revealing improvement of sleep happens during at the time when you are Megan: Exactly. I'm writing that down for myself. What is your philosophy on using Because as Megan said, you know, it can create maybe some sort of fear Conor: Yeah. So I think is to provide useful information And I kind of-- I think we can-- which is what have experts learned So things like regularity avoiding caffeine after those are all things which are But there's still that need for what's actually known about sleep. The second part of the information is individual feedback So having objective information-- And the average person my age It gives a lot of context to people. Some people worry too much. Maybe they feel, oh, I only got, I only got an hour and a half Is there something wrong? And actually, it turns out for their age and gender. So we try to give the personalized data And they can also see So for example, for me, I will will have a sort of-- So now I have that information I can do the connection and the choices I made the previous day. So, you know, We're never--we're not magicians. We don't know everything So, you know, we're not able But we do want to provide the Rachid: So it sounds like as a way of experimenting with things, Does it affect me a lot You could use those scores Conor: Correct. Yeah. So I mean, we actually call that where you are the single And people have found that we can also-- So within our current products, For example, if over the last month, you have slept slightly longer that will be surfaced as an insight. but you can certainly do either through journaling as it's presented to you on the devices. Rachid: Now Conor, is tell you how long you slept, but I can look at the clock and then So what's the use of telling me that? Conor: Yeah. No. one of the things that sleep scientists is humans are very bad So you'll often find people and say, doctor, They go into the lab, and they find out 6 and 1/2, 7 hours. Conor: But they're just more They misperceive their sleep. So sometimes the data reassure people that, in fact, they're So I think the ability to provide can be a very important feature Rachid: So one thing we provide that explains how you're sleeping. I'm a parrot, apparently. They have lively attention spans That's very kind of you, Conor. But what will those What can I learn from them? And I, too, am a parrot. So welcome to the club. Conor: Just to pick up on a point a single night is not So we all have good nights' sleep So what we wanted to do is we of your overall profile. So it's measured over at least 14 days, And what we're looking for is do you actually go to bed Do you have pretty much the Do you experience a lot of need Do you have consistent awakening So we combine all of those to find out what your average And what we found when is it kind of broke into six clusters And to kind of make a bit more fun, each of those clusters purely to kind of give a person But it basically shows You're not the only person or the only person who wakes up early. There are lots of other people like you. Rachid: Perfect. we close every episode Maybe you have a bunch of tips [upbeat music] Megan, could you share a tip or two for how people can prioritize Megan: I think you start We know that people are more likely at changing their health outcomes when they have the intention to do so. They find it important. Next, I would do exactly what you, in having a scientific mindset and tracking the impact it has, does that 10 minutes move the needle on your sleep score? Does it move the needle regardless of how you sleep? And then layer in and track those over time. That's an approach called scaffolding. It's basically trying to ease in or change in, add another, the right combination and new routine that you can focus on The last thing I'll mention is that and it's impacting your mood or your day-to-day functioning, to talk to a health care professional Rachid: Conor, anything to add here? For me, personally, has been by looking at I found quite a strong correlation and my overall feeling of well-being out of all the numbers we could look at. That might not apply for everyone. it's interesting to look and see how it correlates with how you do at work The second thing, just to come back the wind-down routine-- yeah, the hour before bed, you know, turn your brain off whatever it is for you, You know, sleep is not You have to give your brain a chance So definitely, the wind-down routine Rachid: Excellent. I learned a lot in these 15 minutes, so I'm going to start experimenting Thank you so much. Megan: Thank you. [upbeat music] Rachid: Well, if there's one takeaway experimenting with sleep is a good idea. And a sleep tracker can help you measure So a big thank you to Megan and Conor for joining But are you a subscriber? And if you aren't, how about Just hit Subscribe or Follow or whatever And make sure you don't miss of the &quot;Made by Google&quot; podcast. Next week, we're returning and talk about a very important topic, So thanks again for listening. Talk to you in the next one.