Hey! What's up you guys? Marty Schwartz your very first guitar lesson. So this is I've taught guitar for a very long time, even before the Internet, I know the dark ages. I was even teaching back then and I would have taught me my first lesson, and be passing that on to you, and what we shape &quot;scouts honor&quot;, one little shape that we can move around and start making some music right away. not going to matter how good you are at not in tune is not going to sound good So I do have a video on just the basics of here so you can check check that out before we kind of do this stuff. So we're guitar a little bit and learn this and you know the real key is not natural music ability really, it's the the desire and in the beginning which I like to call could call it like two months, what you play guitar just give yourself you know, for two months and don't decide that Just give it that two months of five minutes a day and what you'll find is a lot of times at five minutes when you hour or twenty minutes, but you know if a day for two months you can take a few then decide because really it's about the stuff you learn after the basics you arsenal and it's just fun. So, anyway in though and start learning this stuff show you of the easiest chords to start with, and but real quick let me talk about just We've got a guitar, step 1, step 2? body of the guitar. Body, neck, the 614 got my tuner here, these are the strings, right the strings are connected You've got sides here and you've got the strap, strap a bolt here and a strap a reflection of my light and other guitars then but importantly when we start you look at the how to tune guitar you and you've got the sound hole and the this little piece of plastic or ivory or &quot;the nut&quot; of the guitar, and then these are the frets and what on guitar when of the e-string you don't mean right on this little section here in between this whole space right here is the first metal frets, this is the second fret, third fret fourth fret, etc. The dots on the guitar are just little locator memorize where the notes are or help you in. They're visual references and then what a spot here on guitar where it's the right there, you see the you got single right there and that's that's the octave E string, it would actually go through again so the open strings start over and twelfth fret. Okay so that's just a minor chord now I recommend you get a recommend a light pick or an extra light before. As I progressed on guitar I along okay so, we got a pick, we got the we got the you know the guitar is in called E minor and it's like the first first chord of &quot;About A Girl&quot; by Nirvana, by Pink Floyd. The list goes on and on &quot;Civil War&quot; by Guns and Roses plus it's in it's in a million songs. So we're going finger and if you've never played before time to build some calluses up, so if it then take a break. There's there's no right away and I get that instant just get used to it just like anything. you get a little callus, got to get that finger here and we're going to play the pointer finger and you know my hands this and my pointy finger is going to first fret, this area is the second fret my finger straight down, not the flat then my middle finger, the tip of that d-string. So a little pro tip for you kind of scooted back almost to where ideal is closer to the next fret up you don't get a buzzy sound. So if I scoot it scoot it up? You can hear it rings out perfectly, on that same fret the second fret but on both down. Now if your hands kind of going to get the perfect sounding chord. enough space in our hand to where the will still ring out and it should sound And so just to start with you know you um, kind of if my thumb was up like that, not directly sideways, it's not directly like that and then I pinch it with my strings around the sound hole area. You fluid, I've got the curvature of the that is on my right thigh for comfort, chord. and to start with we just want to make correctly, the guitars in tune for you great grubbers out there. I got out individual strings and make sure properly. This is also the cord from &quot;Nothing Else you can do some &quot;up-downs&quot;, and as we progress learning new chords, a take my hand off, I look on it again and time, stick your tongue out of the side of your mouth if it helps you concentrate, But another tip from the muscle memory to memorize, is that you hold the shape while you keep the shape and then we go and that's how we start to remember that put it back on. So that's our first chord and we could we could do &quot;down-up-down-up.&quot; We can take it nice and easy, now here's what's cool and this is why I teach you which is called &quot;A suspended I wanted to show to you right away after anything new. Nothing! All we do is we down a string so the e minor was the second fret on the D string and we two, it's the exact same shape, we just fret of the D string as an Eddie ate string, Eddie ate dynamite good bye So the D and the G 2nd fret index middle and it sounds like this. Now if you can from here? Then that's even better so that's the A and here's the E minor. So then the next real real simple strumming with our we'll just go 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, and then three four and back. Then you get a little cocky about it, you forth like. oh now I'm also hearing the &quot;Take Me To well, so it's a million songs actually you can start getting creative and want to make some sound so we've got E minor, scoot the thing over a string or down a string and you have A sus 2. Which also kind of sounds like a and that's your start! All right, there it was, there's a link that you'll find for little bit of fun with this lesson this super beginner series. So check you know just remember just be patient some music. I also find it's very great meditative thing to do besides, you the support and we'll see in the next