Hello everyone in this video we're going to original DNS video, I talked about how DNS works. specifics of DNS records that you would find in a for domain name system. And the most basic job of And the reason it has to do this is because computers don't understand names, they only understand numbers. A domain name is just a text that you a certain website such as example.com, google.com, name such as example.com in a web browser, DNS will resolve that domain name into an IP address so you can retrieve the website. Now in a DNS hierarchy the root servers, the top level domain servers, three the DNS servers that are responsible for names to IP addresses are the authoritative name everything about the domain name, including for your query to resolve example.com into an IP So in order to find the correct name server, the DNS hierarchy which is the root server. And will look at example.com and will forward the top level domain server is responsible for .com .net .org and so on. So in this case the top level domain server because the top level level domain server will forward the query to responsible for the example.com domain. And once be resolved to the IP address so the website can called a DNS zone file and this file contains the but I'm only going to talk about the most common and tell you about my partnership with Aura. including your full legal name, your personal relatives. Now this information is accessible your information to robocallers, telemarketers, more about you. So that's why I want to tell you brokers that are exposing your information and behalf. The first time I used Aura I was surprised about me and Aura quickly went to work to remove an antivirus, password manager, and real-time credit if there's a credit inquiry in your name. And I but the app even has a super fast built-in VPN so In fact the VPN is so fast that there's hardly any and you can see the speed test results here with every internet safety tool you'll ever need, all will give you a two-week free trial and you'll Aura finds exposed over those two weeks. So just go in the link in the description below or you can for free and see for yourself how many data So the first DNS record is the A record or address This is what resolves a domain name to an IP address. To be specific it resolves to an IPv4 address which is a 32-bit numeric address. So in the example name such as example.com in a web browser, the name to an IP address. And then we also have how long each record is valid until the next And this record is just like the A record. So to IP addresses, but the difference is, is that addresses. An IPv6 address is 128-bit alphanumeric The next DNS record is called CNAME or canonical domain or subdomain to another domain name. So So as an example, computers read domain names from right to left and domain names will have several parts: a root domain, a top level domain, a second example.com there is also a hidden dot right after but that dot is the root domain. The .com is the domain. But if there is an additional name to the subdomain. So for example www is a common subdomain, which is why it is common to create a CNAME record pointing www.example.com to example.com. Which is why when you type example.com or www.example.com in your web browser you'll end up at the same Subdomains are also often used when a website has are using the same IP address. So as an example running on the same server as their website. such as ftp.example.com for their FTP service record and have it directed to example.com. in their web browser, DNS will look at the CNAME though it's pointing to example.com but once server will inspect the URL that the user on the server. So CNAME records are similar to A resolve domain names to IP addresses while And the next DNS record is MX record or mail email. The MX record simply points to the server name. So for example when you send an email to Tom@example.com, your MTA or mail transfer agent will query the MX records for example.com because will respond back telling the MTA which server be mail1.example.com because that's what the MX MX record does, it tells the world which server Now MX records will generally have and a secondary email server along with number means that it's the primary email gets overwhelmed or goes down, then the And the next DNS record is called SOA which stands it stores administrative information about a DNS section of a domain name space that a certain DNS zones allow a domain namespace such as example.com to be divided into different sections. So if we look at the domain example.com, if this domain was as shop.example.com, blog.example.com, and could create DNS zones and delegate control over he chooses to. So let's say that the shop and each domain and the support subdomain has many amount of computers, the head admin could create an administrator to manage it. But since support created another separate zone just for the support administrator to manage it. So DNS zones are have their own DNS zone file which contains an So just to go over a few of these categories. The email address of the administrator for this zone, an email. And the serial number is a number that update happens in the zone, the serial number to update as well. And the next record is the this record, just like its name says, provides the domain. So as I stated previously, the name server to find a computer or server on a local network DNS hierarchy. And an NS record would generally And the next DNS record is called SRV which DNS records that we talked about will point to will point to a server and it'll also point to when an application needs to find the location instant messaging, or a printer, it will look for that specific service and it will direct it And then we have a PTR or pointer record. Now this A record. So as you remember, A and quad A records records do the opposite, they resolve IP addresses and are used to prevent email spam. So whenever an record to make sure that the sender is authentic authentic IP address. This is what's known as a does not match with its correct and authentic And our last record is the TXT or text. information about a domain such as general to prevent email spam by making sure or authorized source. They can also contain you sign up for Aura's two-week free trial want to thank you for watching this video. Please