Can I come in? Let's go! [music] Let's try it. Two children sleep there... And two children there. They are all on edge. Most people don't want to be filmed. I thought I would find there's also mansions like these! My name is Giuseppe and I have a mission: to travel the world, to meet the most extraordinary people and to ask them a simple question: &quot;What does happiness mean to you?&quot; Welcome to Progetto Happiness. THE ROMANI KINGDOM [music] We're off on another adventure. I'm 6 km from Skopje, and behind me is a seemingly But actually I'm in a city I'm in Suto Orizari, Here the mayor is Romani, the official language is Romani, there's a Romani newspaper, and even a Romani flag. Let's rewind. You may be surprised to learn that the Romani people where they were part of Around the 8th to 9th the Romani people embarked crossing Central Asia all the way to central Europe. They were initially greeted for their artistic skills It wasn't long until the Romani faced They were regarded as foreigners, and became victims of persecution and Despite the hardships, the Romani and continued to travel across They primarily worked as artisans, Their music, dance, and in many European aristocratic courts. During the Holocaust, however, Romani were persecuted It is estimated that between were victims of genocide. After World War II, the Romani people tried and integrate into European society. Unfortunately, they continued to which increasingly drove Today it is estimated that worldwide there are between the largest minority on The official number as many refuse to for fear of further discrimination. Here in Suto Orizari, however, this is the only city are politically and 99% of citizens are ethnic Romani. Here they seem to live their culture and identity freely. A place to finally call home. Mind you, I'm not It is extremely offensive to them! It's like using the &quot;N-word&quot; Instead, the correct which in their language means &quot;man&quot;. Here's a fun fact: if you are not Romani, It also means &quot;fearful,&quot; or &quot;weak.&quot; Bazaar traders prefer Their small stores, in counterfeit clothing are not authorized by Thank you. So kind, this lady Thank you very much. It's good! Thank you. [music] Here they collect Then they resell it, and This was a garbage dump. This is an interview? Don't film here! I don't want you to ever film here. Bye. We'll have to be more careful because it's not very easy to everyone is on edge. Most people don't want to be filmed. We were just now filming a landfill and they all came to The fear of being filmed Anonymously, the locals too many times their and that they no longer believe can generate a positive change I understand this, but I hope The streets are filled but in a few years the real challenge Here the current unemployment The new mayor built this There is a soccer field, And here there's also How could there not be one? That's the flag of the Romani people. It has a very strong symbolism: there is a green band and freedom of movement, while the blue is for the And the wheel in the center and the endless journey However, that is also intertwined because it is also an Indian chakra. We also find that same chakra This flag is the symbol of We're lost. We're trying to go to but I can't find the way, I will have to ask someone to... Hello! Could you share Thank you very much! I can use Wi-Fi without I always travel With all the traveling I always keep NordVPN's When connecting to like in airports or bars, to fake Wi-Fi networks to spy on me, steal my NordVPN also protects me, when I receive suspicious emails, and keeping me from like entering my banking Until Oct. 1 there is a special offer on the 2-year plan, plus 10, 20 or 30EUR for new NordVPN users. Found it. I'm bringing you to one of the most As always, I'll leave you to try NordVPN and stay secure online. Now, follow me. I had a naive idea of I thought I would find There's also mansions like these belonging to people who then come here to invest maybe even in Italy. Hello! Suto Orizari's economy from Romani immigrants who made In summer, they come back to see but especially to renovate Hey there! Can I come in? Let's go! Let's see what happens! The guys are building a house, probably for very wealthy people. Hello! What are you doing? I have a YouTube channel. Okay, come in. The guys are Albanian They're building this house Look at that... Crazy... This will be the main hall, probably. This is the home of a Romani He decided to invest in a where all the mansions of the Come look! A stereo inside the bed! Another bedroom. I like how somber this furniture is. Look at how many houses are being built. Suto Orizari has become that each of them dreams of having in the only place where they feel at home. It may surprise you there's a kind of The most opulent and beautiful where world-famous Romani musicians, There is, however, one peculiarity: On one side of the road and on the other there's shacks. So it's a more like half Is this your house? This is my papa's house. Beautiful. No... No, it's nice. Traditional. Normal. What's your name? Robert Nice to meet you. Giuseppe. Look, look... Can we? Robert is telling us that And luckily he let us inside. It's right in front of the The bathroom is outside here. Not inside the house. This is your home? Yes. And where do you sleep? Two children here. Two over here. Me and my woman here. Wow, crazy. The roof is made of wood There's a television here, a fan. I see some eggs down there. They are well-organized, Not bad! It's nice, Robert! It is interesting to see the contrast. We just entered a beautiful And these people were really They opened the doors and showed us a traditional Very modest, but Okay, this is another room. I think he's sleeping... I didn't want to disturb. No problem. Ok, so... Robert brought me here. The children are sleeping, It's okay, I didn't want to disturb. [thunders] A storm is coming... A big one, probably. A very big storm is coming, guys. [Giuseppe] Hello, hello! There are so many and they come here because this is wedding season. But now we'd better leave The wind is so strong you can hear and I worry that any moment We had to leave Suto Orizari. A crazy storm is coming down. We'll take this chance hoping it will stop, because we have to meet so many people. We were granted an A representative... So many of them want to what it means to live To give you an idea of the situation... It's just drizzling. It will definitely stop very soon. These folks were very kind. They invited us to their house for They had prepared a typical which, if I understand correctly, is I haven't had meat in a long time, but today clearly, for them, since we will eat this typical Romani dish. Let's taste it! Super! Delicious. Great. It is not as spicy as I expected, because Romani people usually It's not spicy, but here on the table... there's this, which I think Let's see... Do you want some, Nino? Here. Here I go! Don't eat it! His son picked up! - Hey man! Your father is so kind! He let me in, he's giving me lunch. They are great people... Watching this kind family, I realize that in the Romani culture there is a clear division but more as a division although traditionally the man Great! We're taking a risk, driving created by the storm. This is really just a normal street, but there's at least 3 feet of water. We did it! I saw 10 waterlogged cars on the way, but we did it. Most Romani doing odd jobs, selling clothing, collecting plastic, metals But we are about to meet the biggest businessman - Welcome! This gentleman's story is one of many. Kicked out of university just he found social and becoming one of the largest exporters of fine fabrics of the What is it like to Suto Orizari is a sacred land for me, Because I am Romani. I want to live here. What does it mean to you to be a Romani? For me, being Romani is about pride. There are many of us all over We are divided, though. Some are here in I don't know, Bosnia, Romania... Also genetics. We are nomads. We come from India, we are here. Others live in other countries, but.. We do not want to move to other countries. When a Romani can't it is easy to move to other countries. Let's say that for an For us, this is normal. What do you think about the fact people think that the Roma No, this is not true. Not all Romani steal... Like in Italy. Italians also steal. People don't want to think I am an example here in Suto. Not only me, there are other For example, from Suto Orizari Also, there is a problem. Not only in Europe. Not only here in Macedonia. All over the world there is a Romani are poor. They are second-class people. This is not true... It must be changed. What do you think happiness It is simple. Living free, as a free man. No chains, no... All open. Unfortunately, the mayor because he had to officiate a wedding, but perhaps it was luckier this way... We left Suto Orizari because to go inside this building. This is the Macedonian Parliament, Because we were summoned a very special delegate, For years she's been It is amazing how many In fact, there are so many statues That this city is called I am the only Romani female delegate representing the Obviously the challenge and I'm fighting my To better understand the Romani issue, the situation with Romani people live in the hope and equal among others in society, What is the meaning of You know, no matter how poor the we are a happy people. Why? For the Romani, And what little they have, such as food or anything they know how to share it with Maybe there won't be much on the No matter how difficult they always find happiness The history of the Romani is a showing how they have during their journey from India to Europe. Their presence continues to to the cultural richness and even though these people in heavy prejudice that or even to hide their origins. Suto Orizari is a safe haven for Romani, yet still too much like a It's an honor to have been of this unique community, where the line between good and as it is among any other We really know too I hope that through this journey associating them just with is debasing for such an My journey into the and my greatest wish is in an Italian encampment as well, what it means to be Romani in Italy. ENGLISH SUBTITLES: Kayla Baker