Hello everyone, today I'm sharing the simplest and easiest way to care for your orchids so that your orchids always have a lot of beautiful flower buds and flowers that bloom more brightly, the flowers last longer and the plants grow healthy and strong. Every month for good green growth, you should soak the plant in water once, leave it like this for 30 minutes to help the growing medium maintain moisture and the plant will absorb nutrients better after 30 minutes. Take the plant out . You use the peels of 2 onions which contain a lot of vitamins and nutrients , add them to 1 liter of boiled water and wait for the water to cool . You can use it while waiting for the water to cool, if the orchids you bought are If your leaves have yellow leaves or fungus, remove all the old growing medium, then remove these yellow leaves, then use 1 liter of water and the onion juice has cooled, you will filter this water and use it. Use this water and wipe the leaves. This is a very effective way to keep the leaves free from fungus and bacteria. The leaves are very healthy. Then you water the base of the plant and leave it like this for about 30 minutes . With this orchid plant, you also clean the leaves and then replant the plant. This will help your plant recover very quickly and is always protected from fungi and bacteria very effectively . Put it in a glass like this and add the onion juice. We will leave it for 30 minutes. When you replant this method, your plants will never have root rot. After 30 minutes, please replant the plants and remember to place them. In places where there is light , we water it just enough to keep it moist and after 30 minutes we also take this flower pot out . I have created many subtitles, you can watch and choose the appropriate language Hello. Friends, so that orchids that have rotted like this can be easily revived and help the plants grow faster, today I share a very simple and easy way to make rotten orchids And with leaves like these, the plant will recover quickly and grow better. These orchids need to stop watering. The growing medium is very moist, which is one of the reasons why these plants are susceptible to rot. Remove all the old planting material, cut off all the damaged roots and rotten roots. Please check carefully when cutting these roots. This top part should be cut off because it is completely rotten and will be cut horizontally. This part is still very green and healthy. The orchid will recover very quickly. The roots above are still very good. You need to wash them thoroughly. Use the dried peel of an onion. It always has properties. Antibacterial, antiseptic and contains many vitamins and nutrients to help orchids grow very quickly. Add 1 liter of boiled water, wait for this water to cool when the onion peel water has cooled, this nutrient is very rich, filter the water. Put the orchid root here and let it soak in this water for 30 minutes. It will help the plant revive and protect the roots to be healthier during the recovery process , so use the remaining water. To care for other orchids, it will help keep orchids free from fungus and insects. This is one of the very safe and effective organic substances , so apply this method every 14 days. Helps orchids grow quickly and watering the growing medium will help weak and underdeveloped orchids have healthy roots. The roots will grow very quickly when using this nutrient for care. For orchids, the orchids will always be greener. Then, if you take out the orchids with strong, green roots like these, the plants will recover very quickly and replant them with dry pine bark . a little moss and do not water the plant for 3 days. This method will help the plant's roots dry up. The plant will recover very quickly after 3 days. Water the pot. We water evenly on the surface of the pot like this to like this for 10 minutes, so that the growing medium and the roots of the plant are better kept moist Then take it out and on normal days, only use water to irrigate just enough moisture. Do not water too much. Place the plant in a light, dry and cool place. Use plastic bottles with holes in them. You cover it and this is the result after the next 3 weeks, the small orchid from the root has been revived, the plant has grown very well and healthily. Once the small plant has grown from the root, regularly use water to keep it moist. Then the small orchids will grow faster and easier. Continue to put them in the same position and cover them. The result after the next 4 months is that the orchids have grown very well from the base, the roots have also grown very healthy. You can see more using the methods that I have shared on the channel. With this method, it will be very easy to create small orchids from their roots. There are many subtitles you can watch and choose the subtitles. Which topic is suitable for this stage? You can add a little moss here to keep the roots moist. We will not need to cover it anymore, but let the plant get light so that it gradually adapts to the outside environment. Besides, don't forget to like, share, subscribe to the channel and press the bell for easy viewing. Good bye and see you again. I wish you every success