Good afternoon. Good afternoon and welcome Foundation Prize Symposium. Today, we are celebrating of four pioneers whose us closer to understanding in human biology, the brain. The discoveries span the fields of genetics, bioengineering, and beyond. And together, these give birth to the a revolutionary approach and modulate neurons with and precision by simply The work of Edward Boyden, Karl and Gero Miesenbock transformed our ability of the brain, it has to elucidating secrets of the mind, secrets that are involved in as well as those involved of neurologic and To be sure, the advent of has stemmed from the collective over some decades, but the four made pivotal discoveries critical tools optogenetics an indispensable Now, the idea of tinkering to illuminate its tantalized scientists Think of the now classic by the 18th century Italian who demonstrated that is in the form of electricity That notion that be used to manipulate the a centuries-old extension In the 1980s, Peter to understand how green algae sense light. And in the 1990s, identified and characterized in algae that enable Peter then, along deciphered the key principles, of light-sensitive proteins. In 2002, the notion of became a tangible conducted by Gero Miesenbock. Gero demonstrated possible to use light to Gero used light-sensing flies and genetically into nerve cells. And the achievement neurons sensitive to a way to control their Gero's work de possible to use optogenetics as the brain. Karl Deisseroth and his team of key experiments showing proteins-- the proteins in single-cell organisms-- could be used to in the mammalian brain, which had the necessary chemicals to Karl continued to elucidating the structures of channels and discovering activators. All the while, he has continued fundamental discoveries of the mammalian brain. Edward Boyden worked on in optogenetics. He was part of a team, along Zhang, and others, that in showing that the light-gated studied by Peter to control neuronal firing. Ed then in his own went on to refine optogenetic activators to of multiple cell and used optogenetics to Collaborating with pioneers Ed developed tools that to impact exact patterns on small groups of neurons Now taken together, have fundamentally of modern neuroscience. They have set the stage for that could one day be used preserve movement following or modulate the circuitry that and many other applications. Recognizing the people of transformative that carries the promise to diagnose, and treat disease, is reason for being. We would not be here these momentous achievements of the Warren Alpert Many of you will have behind the birth but this rather mythical In 1987, Warren Alpert came described the work Murray, a British a vaccine against hepatitis Warren put down the paper, and cold-called Murray. Now fortunately, Murray And Warren Alpert that he had won the Warren The little detail there wasn't the Warren So Warren got to work. He contacted then Dean of Tosteson and asked a panel of experts that could And Dan said, yes. And here we are 31 years later. Over those three has awarded nearly $5 million have gone on to I am thrilled today to have with Foundation's board of directors. I saw Fred Schiffman and And I apologize if other and I haven't been But on behalf of the scientific School and the world want to thank the Foundation and discovery and for to alleviate human suffering. I want to congratulate the Alpert prize and to admiration for their Now, I'm going to to our symposium one of the preeminent of our time, Bernardo Sabatini. Bernardo received his in biomedical He went on to earn a as well as the MD degree He pursued postdoctoral training Laboratory. Bernardo is a Howard Hughes a member of the National and currently, the Moorhead III Professor in the Blavatnik Institute Bernardo and his team seek to that underlie brain plasticity, allows mammalian brains to learn, and to adapt to And the ultimate goal of is to define the perturbations can give rise to neurologic Please join me in Bernardo. [APPLAUSE] Thank you, George, and for coming to this wonderful going to celebrate the arc that led to the field And as Dean Daley the excitement in optogenetics is that it brought into a modern era in which became possible. And so from the times when into the brains of that there were very specific features of the of the state of the action of the animal. And these beautiful led to precise theories perform computation, store motor action. But the problem was that were very beautiful. In most cases, we lacked with high precision. And optogenetics has of gain and loss of to control neural us to test if these and if the activity is necessary and sufficient and signaling within the brain. Now as Dean Daley been decades that to use light to and the literature is littered to do so. And there's a very nice the codiscoverer of that he gave the Royal Society talks about how one able to manipulate the activity And he said, the ideal This seems rather far-fetched-- sorry-- this seems but it is conceivable that engineer a particular sensitive to light in this way. And so the four people are the ones that took that idea and made it a reality. And what I like about is that it brings that's done by many with many different styles. And so we're going to see wanted to solve a problem pure curiosity-driven science organisms detect and We'll see other who wanted to solve problems He wanted to drive his had roadblocks, and to get beyond them. And we'll also see that took an idea and almost created dozens and dozens to push forward a field and that we need for optogenetics. So very different that all came together Now, I've told you a I'm excited about want to spend just a on why you should be and why the Alpert And George touched And there are One is that optogenetics into the brain we hope, new ways to treat And so we've been in the brains of animals to eat, for example, even and hence might be relevant We found cells in the that mediate feelings other cells that exacerbate of Parkinson's disease or that to Alzheimer's. And all of this work has within pharma that neuropsychiatric have to target circuits instead And I think that the wave of therapy for in the future. Second, as George it's quite likely that humans of their brain will will use these manipulations of activity within the brain. There are already in which optogenetic to restore light sensitivity who have lost their own cells. So today, we're going to that we've chosen over decades in their have driven this field forward. Some, it turns out, have done it said, studying and then realizing the continue to drive And other ones have to simply solve this problem. We have a jam-packed going to try to keep on time. We're not going to do so you'll have to find if you want to talk to them. I'm going to keep the I'm not going to list that these four won because today, it won the Warren Alpert prize. So our first speaker He is the Hertie Professor of University in Berlin, a that's made amazing over the last century. And he has really worked his entire scientific career. His thesis work was and Characterization of the Halorhodopsin,&quot; one that we still use the activity of cells. His first independent group in Martinsried was called So basically, his worked on this problem of how light, detect light, And through his he has found, and characterized, with collaborators the became the first wave of that made all this possible. Peter, I look forward to hearing Thank you. [APPLAUSE] So dear Dr. Daley, thank you very much for the And to stand here is and a great honor for me. And I'd like to express my Alpert Foundation, committee and all the members So today, my short talk, like to guide you And I don't want to bother you In the second part, I'd like to we are doing now. So the first slide which you see And this is a sign for And on the other hand, it's And it was my pleasure to because it's exactly became united 29 years ago. So my first conclusion help to solve any problem. And so my second statement is project, it should So you should wonder about cannot explain. It can be a natural can be a disease unknown or unexplored. So here, you see that wave-- the orange waves-- occur in the ocean, sometimes Or if you go to you see you red snow. And this is called And the question is And the reason is green are responsible for And this is Alexandrium. This is one of the most toxic And if you keep them you need a good aeration, And this is that is responsible for And it's also the reason why because it tastes sweet. So my laboratory is working on nivalis. And I forgot to say The real pleasure in on something, the outcome So we work on Chlamydomonas is the green model organism. And when we started to study we realized that it's not was a publication Famintsyn, a Russian scientist. And he described the behavior of Chlamydomonas. And this is written in German, and edited by Saint Petersburg And he used an assay, to the bottom-right, this And you shine light on one from the light. And he asked already, what are moves to or away from light? This person became established a botanical later on. And he didn't have the time anymore. The other two people is the physicist Ken Foster-- he was a postdoc in and a chemist Koji worked on green algae And they worked that were unable to produce And they found that these And they added realized that they the sensitivity of these algae within one minute after And that was the I got interested in the work. And I spent some time And his lab was totally chaotic. You couldn't do anything, but he as well. So we studied this and then realized dependent on the as already Famintsyn And we tried to establish And we were heavily discouraged because they said it will never Goodenough. Where is she? She should be in the audience. Oh, there she is, It's great to have you here. And she was the only encouraged me, and provided algae, which allowed to establish electrophysiology. So he sucked the cell and applied a short flash. And what he noticed is a fast photos at means ion influx into the current, which is influx And he measured the wavelengths that it is a rhodopsin spectrum And we concluded that are mediated by rhodopsin. We learned over the years to oh yeah, thank you-- directly from the eye by and this greatly improved resolution. And allowed us to record resolution, as you see that there's no delay. And from these and we concluded that the are directly coupled. And a few years later, we that they form a light-gated And the channel conducts And it's interesting that we'd because this algae live so quite different from that you're facing now. And these are one in one of these photocurrents. And we concluded is about 100 femtoseconds and almost exactly the number So we also noticed that range and a high so they have sensitivity And so we established There is a light-activated responsible for the upper and a lower region, where And this has not been We also measured with the photocurrents, that the appearance of this is so important for the later cause the switch from forward the trigger for completely Then in parallel, we of the photoreceptor by using reconstituting it with purified the most have shown that these and proposed that this is a No response from the After five years four years later, we got a And he ask us, &quot;I have been in potential methods by be transfected with permit light-triggered and potentials.&quot; That was a very interesting And probably most of is Roger Chen, who became and he failed. And the reason why he failed [LAUGHTER] So at least, we have that it was the wrong gene. The abundant retinal is not the photoreceptor So, but, the on-off clearly remains yours. So this is my tribute to Roger It was always wonderful. He has no social behavior. When you met him, he continued where we stopped three [LAUGHTER] So then Sunir Katarya and he discovered in a Catoosa for Chlamydomonas, and they were related to And they showed in helix domain, and a long of the protein. And we decided to but didn't have the oocyte So we teamed up with and expressed this by using two voltage And we have shown or so, that these are flagged in the photocurrent So it was immediately the protein we are looking for. These are the with longer illumination times, which shows a very and a model at cation dependent. And we called this because they unify an ion And there are two of them, So why does Chen work unsuccessfully? Because the currents And then he didn't find to work on channelrhodopsin two. So then after this expressed this in cells, the channelrhodopsin two, one showed small And the next thing is that the seven is enough to trigger and the 60% of the So we had a very which is a sensor together, so channelrhodopsins. And the conclusion was can be functionally So this conclusion or a number, not many yet, to work on this. And the first where Karl Deisseroth they demonstrated that this and you can fire and the response that you get The next person was he demonstrated that it And this might be forgotten. And the third person He has shown that this And the first animal It was a chicken embryo. And the third person was He produced a cell allowed channelrhodopsin And the last person who demonstrated that it can reconstitute vision. And he was also pretty late, so far. But he belongs to And then later on, as have taken over the all those modifications And certainly, meanwhile, in zebrafish and and you'll hear So the technology is You take DNA from a for example, connect it from the cell of interest, inject the virus into wait for a couple you can replace a needle and then you can study the So what you need that is small and a promoter element, a present in sufficient amount. And this was my that the brain contains retinal to reconstitute the And certainly, response and probably many responses organism in the wilderness, in a mouse in a cage. So the specificity that you can target And in parallel, you can with another actuator and then you can study and sleep, and locomotor and certainly, since recently, autism, addiction, anxiety, And Karl and Ed will So what remained for us? So we went back to our that we wanted to understand And this is the we have about the This is mainly based and biophysics, and that has been provided And he used a hybrid which by Hiromu Yawo in Sendai. And certainly MD where the water is most And you see here the which provides the and green amino acids that are and the brown amino acids that and ion selectivity. And we mutated all of what they are doing. But the key elements are the gates, the central which are closed in darkness. And you should keep in is a dark state of so it means that it's closed. And what we still information about is not available at the moment. Also I'd like to bring that in contrast the sensory photoreceptors So they undergo thousands after light absorption, are detectable as because they have relation And this can be monitored by wavelengths. This is 470 of the dark state, and 520. And this is a main And then it decays in 10 milliseconds, and it on a seconds timescale. But most interesting part which is the initial state. And by using pump we studied them in detail And if you excite the cells to an excited state, the occur on an energy And then there is a dissection, between the excited And here the decision is made or to go into the So this is a very central of this rhodopsins. So decision is made on in a range of 10 to the minus Everything else, what comes So we certainly looked to understand the system, in a sense that we can use it. And that was done with and with Ofer who is now at the Weizmann, And I gave you a few examples. So if you mutated this residue, If you [INAUDIBLE] will get a shorter but more importantly, you of the protein. And that allows you to fire speed, higher frequency, interneurons. And the third example and if you mutated the photo cycle tremendously. And it goes from 10 or so. And this can be used for So here is one example. You apply blue light. You excite the cells. It fires action potential. And then you apply green light. Then it goes back two states. So this step function for future experiments. But also the current in a different channelrhodopsin. For example, this and it's an invert rectifier. And this is hyperactivating It's again invert rectifying. And here's another species And here is another species recently discovered. It completely inactivates for whatever biological So then these in different And also, what came out, is very, very important. So we can collect to address different cells. So one important experiment is shown here, the And this is a typical because it requires So if you look at the I have shown you the which is shown here again. And we recently found that there and a late conductance. And the first one, the early and the second one And depending on you get a more proton- photocurrent in your Alternatively, so more or is this isomerization you isomerization, and it produces started its own photo cycle. And the open state is only weakly conductance, and And this is the reason you get this reduced This one here. So the system is than probably, as an And the question is how can we And we identified some one in the inner gate and And if you replace is conserved in most of you can manipulate the ratio which is shown in red, which is shown in green here. And then you can these different mutations to direction. But you can also look at the This is Johannes [INAUDIBLE] and the sodium selectivity. And you might end up is almost exclusively or you should look at the is almost exclusively So only at neutral pH and low And at alkaline pH, you get no-- you get no current. So what we engineer has done billion years before. You only have to find it. This is a problem. If you don't know then you don't get anything. And Ed's lab has, for this Chrimson, which is very It is almost purely so you get, at neutral pH and and no current at alkaline pH. But if you mutate this, this you convert it into channelrhodopsin. And what we concluded from this is in this Chrimson at a so close to the surface, important at all, and not So nature had developed how to control conductance And if you look at the crystal So the water pore is blocked at this position. Whereas it's a free flowing from Chlamydomonas. So unfortunately, successful to produce channelrhodopsin. And this is on the And Karl and I came together But as long as this is not and established two And in this case, we combined a which is a cyclase that produces us to activate a cyclic AMP which can induce Alternatively, we recently which is also a rhodopsin and this tail is an to the rhodopsin, And this produces can use cyclic GMP-activated to hyperpolarize the cell. And here's one example a postdoc in my group. She used this blue enzyme, and combined it with from a bacterium. And she got nicely which was very efficient. And due to this can use it in very because it drives 10,000 charges which is much more, for example, that only or an ion channel like maybe between 10 and 20. So this is, I'd like to Francisca Schneider, a she now has a group working And she tried this, and was able from the heart cells, and in her model systems. So it works nicely. And here's an experiment And you see here the And here is a small and it causes a long in these cells. And certainly would be better, to use cyclic GMP And therefore she established in my lab the cyclases, interestingly, by a theoretical physicist. She became unemployed and she discovered these rhodopsin cyclases. And this is good for and also for So these are only And I'd like to summarize, is still the light-activated What we are still missing is It has been complemented by and also, since some time, complement the ion transporters. So this is still I could continue, but I'd like to finish. My conclusion is algae have And if we continue to they probably will take over What they have done And I still have hope that the human species will And this is my group. And I'd like to express many thanks to all had the privilege to work and neuroscience and to the Chlamydomonas all the business have started. And certainly, I over the last three decades, and First of all, Karl, who probably, 12 years or so. And he transferred to the neuroscience had enough and a profound so it was always a Thanks, Karl, for that. And Ofer Yizhar, is a group leader at the Weizmann. He established optogenetics and Georg Nagel, in previous times, and and crystallographers. And I'd like to thank [APPLAUSE] Thank you. Close. OK. Thank you so much for So we have two halves to and in each one, we have two Interspersed we have two postdoctoral in the Department of And so these are talks who are using optogenetics to advance the inner of the mouse brain So the first of to be from Kimberly Reinhold. She did her undergraduate and then went to University to do a PhD with and then I was lucky enough here on the quadrangle. And she's going to tell us about to both activate in the brain to undercover how Kim? [APPLAUSE] Thank you. It's a real pleasure to be we apply optogenetics. When I was in college to take a PE class, a So I signed up for squash attempted a racquet sport. And the first day tried to hit the and I was very, very bad. The instructor sent me to a And I did, I practiced. And I attended all the And at the end of couldn't hit the ball but other students Squash is an example of how we We learn to associate like the ball flying at my head, Maybe swinging the racquet, And we learn these associations Trial and error learning of many different Therefore it's vital we and how it occurs. What do we know? Well, we know that people have damage to the basal deep in the brain And we know that these people learning. These people can learn people's names, the time of But they have deficits, like the squash example-- and also in purely cognitive Interestingly, to a different part of the are amnesics. So these people like the color of the but they can learn, and error tasks. And so we see a suggests that the basal trial and error learning. And this has been confirmed To figure out what it's important we understand how in a healthy brain. So today I'll tell you about To try to nail down more trial and error learning First I'll explain our approach. We've developed a learn through trial and error. There are two stages-- learning, and then execution I'll ask if basal after the mice have learned. Whether basal ganglia are And if they are, how? To ask the question, are we'd like a way to shut and look for Diseases and stroke do this, And lesion studies do the same. But those changes are rarely circuit, and unfortunately There are other kinds of changes And these have higher spatial but what we're is a technique with that also has excellent For example, able fast cognitive processes, that happens between swings on seconds. And here, optogenetics Let me first tell you Mice, like humans, that receives sensory inputs To study this area where mice learn to associate a sensory component The sensory component, have chosen an like a flash of light, the eye and a number of throughout the brain-- many of which themselves now we have a lot areas in different becomes difficult to follow through the brain from So we decided to play a trick. We restrict the cue to be the area, the visual cortex. This is well and has a specific projection We can use viral to express an optogenetic in these neurons, in the cortex that send their And then we can implant a fiber shine blue light through and that will activate channelrhodopsin, which These cation channels. And that causes the cell action potentials. So we turn on neural activity The motor component of the task We make the mice so they can't see the food. And we've ensured that they also so they have to use the to see if the food So the task proceeds like this. The mice reach a lot. Often there's no food The optogenetic cue turns and there is food. So they have to learn that the optogenetic Mice learn to do this. Here I'll show you a movie where Let's see if I can Thank you. So you'll see that pellets And then the cue, the So keep your eyes on this blue That means we're stimulating So the cue's about to turn on. There, it turned on. And he's learned that that so he reaches and Remember, this is so he can't see the pellet. We're spying on him The light here is just a has nothing to do with the cue. And it's just to ensure reach the flashing lights. And we have a variable interval to make sure he's So he's learned this task. And we can plot his behavior or trials on the y-axis versus And then put his and see that sometimes the pellet, other times he drops and often he reaches and But what's important is that across all of these trials with reaches on the y-axis we see this huge increase in after the cue. And this tells us that he between cue and food. We've taught a number Here's the mean And we think that these to the optogenetic cue, they reach. This is the same thing I But when on a random set the mice don't reach, even And when we omit the pellet the mice do still reach. So it seems that animals association. Are the basal ganglia needed? The basal ganglia to link the cue to because these structures and project to motor outputs. And because there is a direct cortex into the input called the striatum. And I now want to focus on this and in particular, receives that input receives that cues signal. This is the dorsomedial And for the rest of the I'm referring to this Does striatum link the Does it trigger Well, if this simple then we should be able to see here around the time of the cue. So we test this by in the striatum. We can acutely implant into the animal's brain and We see action potentials And then we can just draw a And represent a neuron's where the different rows are and the x-axis is time. So you see that this around the time of the cue. And we've found a which seem to show changes So this might be Second, if this linear when we shut off this should no longer be able So we have an optogenetic There are output But there is a second general and these are locally So we can put a red into these cells, through two bilaterally basically turn on these and they act to shut project out the output neurons. And so essentially is performing a spatially of function, where specifically the part of input, and then to the rest of the brain. And we want to know whether is needed for the cued reach. Importantly, previous that inactivating this part doesn't paralyze so the animal can still move. What does red light Let's take a look at this What we find is that prevents spiking in this neuron. And this is an inactivation But at the end of the red So unlike a lesion, We can suppress the activity You can see right here. And across all of the neurons that we recorded, we in activity. So the red light We can turn on the red light at the time of the cue and do the cued reach. So here's the cued reaching And now we want to when we eliminate striatum. Can the mouse still or is cued reaching gone? What we see is that able to do the cued reaching. And in fact, there's no and there's no change to successfully grab So we see no motor So it seems that striatum does after learning, and there area that serves this function. We don't know yet. We have some ideas. It turns out these neurons also have collaterals to and the superior colliculus. And we're investigating now might be the link. But I began the that the basal ganglia are and error tasks. So maybe the basal ganglia In order to test this, to measure learning. The mice make cued make spontaneous reaches just hoping there And we would expect involves an increase plotted here on the in non-cued reaching, And this is what we see. Here's an example learning You can see it to the last day the animal And there is a little decrease So we can plot the direction by putting on a vector from And then across mice learn by modifying Interestingly, when we shut on every presentation animals do not show the Their behavior is disrupted. And here are the averages And so it seems the striatum We can plot this data and combine the x how much more cued reaching to non-cued reaching. And this is a metric It doesn't matter, it's just And I'm going to plot it the day of training on the x. To give you a sense low learning values-- learning index values-- Middle values, the mouse is And at high values, performing really So animals with the striatum But when we inhibit Maybe my striatum I was trying to learn squash. Importantly, we damaged the mice because we can perform So we stop the manipulation, have the striatum are able-- the same Maybe hope for my So it seems that to learn the cued reaching. Can we get any idea of how? One hypothesis is might get information about behavior in the past, to update the animal's And that could happen at This updating could be of the squash racket swing. Where you swing, you swing again, but you're still not very good. And that update is very rapid Or we can imagine a student Learned a bunch of information, get into memory until the And maybe here the of minutes to hours. So if we had a way to measure we could ask about the basal timescale. I've showed you we can If we had a way to similarly within a day, then we could look So now instead of looking at we're going to look at the is the time delay And we're going to time early in the day to the If the animal is improving, is speeding up. We're going to plot that on the y-axis. On the x I'm going to if the animal is simply before that cue. So this is reaches so it has nothing to And so we have a non-cued We find that mice learn They increase cued reaching Does striatum store this within a day? If it does, then when at the end of the day-- which we can do with wait and then shut we expect that the will fall back to where it was But if striatum does not performance change, that there will be little And this is what we see. So it seems the striatum within day improvement. But if we disengage and turn off the we see that the animals or accumulate that And we can see When the mouse touches But this incremental when we shut off the striatum. So we favor the hypothesis acts on a very fast And so in conclusion, is that activating a specific is sufficient to teach The striatum isn't but it is needed And we think it's to provide these fast And so a picture emerges. This is just a imagine that the striatum is through behavior space. And that in healthy learning, add up to bring the animal Maybe addiction is Maybe there's a deficit in Maybe Tourette's to the wrong part or the brain getting We think that that we see when we while small on a could really add to produce the really observe in basal ganglia So I'd like to thank the Of course, all of the people thank you. Bernardo Sabatini, my an excellent technician with me on this project. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Thank you so much, Kim. So our next speaker is Dr. Ed is the Eva Tan professor and also a professor as well as an investigator Institute. Ed did his undergraduate where apparently he That's what I I was surprised about that. And then went to Stanford to working with Jennifer Chen, who is the that we heard about earlier, While he was at Stanford he and Feng Zhang to first into neurons and show, that one could control the with this tool. Afterwards he came to MIT. And I think his of the broadest and creative, in many that I've ever seen. His group has worked, of course, new optogenetic heard a little bit about that. His group has also for doing electrophysiological He's worked on electrophysiological analysis. And most recently, what almost seems like but is really incredible, to look at tissue at he decided to not but instead make And thus invented the field which is really providing some complex tissues are organized. Ed, welcome. [APPLAUSE] Great. Well, first I'd like to be here receiving this collaborators, and colleagues. It's a tremendous honor. And I'm excited to get to but also how might fit together in this grand The brain is so think we need to think about lets us make maps of the brain, And optogenetics, of course, And then what you might call to watch the brain in action. And interestingly, are emerging from the Why is it so hard? Well, the brain, amongst exhibits extraordinary and temporal complexity. So if you think about are enormous, right? They're centimeters We have neurons going down our spinal cord. And yet, if you care blocks of neural care about axons and dendrites, and biomolecules So how do you see and control across all those And there's also time. So of course, if you care or Alzheimer's disease these are your long They take hours And the quantal building though, are these millisecond So if we're thinking out ways questions, you really have about space and time. And so today, I'll tell you about these properties of how to discover and engineer But towards the end, a little bit about how we're for imaging neural activity. And of course, if you can see that's great. But it would be nice to to know where in the neural activity. And my hope is that if we can sets, comprehensive, of how brain circuits work might So I'll start with optogenetics. So you've already heard the introduction of the idea. I first met Karl when and we started brainstorming control neural dynamics going to the laws of physics. Could you use magnetic fields? Could you use light? And light, of course, as Francis Crick because it's as fast and you can aim it at things. You have to bring And as much as people into the brain for you can bring in optical of optical devices. This next question make a molecule that converts or do you find it? And as Peter already a family of microbial goes back many decades which will convert light into So the first of these was actually a shown here in structural form. It's a seven with an all trans that absorbs the light. And you get these rapid of what the discoverers like a different proton pump. And that's found in microbes that live in Now a decade later, found in the same species a which they named halorhodopsin. And it shares some in certain specific makes it a chloride pump rather And then you've already heard who discovered the these light-driven ion channels. Originally, the ones and now we also know there let negative charge through. So for me, one of the that got me interested was from 1999 from And at the time, these molecules in these halophilic archaea. So they worked at very Here's electric current And you can see the peak is at And if your brain is like is down around here. So this molecule This is a halorhodopsin pump from a specific species. But one of these molecules bizarre evolutionary function in the low And so this is actually that Carl and I started The first one that we tried that you've already that was discovered by him and rhodopsin 2. And we put the gene into of blue light just from for seeing GFP at the time. And all of a sudden on the was that you could in cultured hippocampal neurons. And also, it didn't require the chemical For whatever strange made the chemical co-factor. So a lot of what we've been has been trying to what are the principles and pushing their physical of speed and and all of the other parameters And since this is and I'll go through some of in the following slides. But what we found is of these classes-- the pumps, the light-driven and light-driven be found that actually are safe enough, and powerful enough that are, of course, a bit of a of complex physiology. So Brian [INAUDIBLE],, when looked at light-driven and found that a member of this class, if you genetically and then shine green will powerfully pump and silence their Halorhodopsins do but of a negative charge. So it has a similar although different They pump chloride in response and hyper-polarize the By deleting neural look at the necessity of a or pathological state. And then the put into neurons back in 2004. And you can shine blue and let positive charge in. And you can activate you investigate what sufficient to trigger. And I should mentioned she was a grad pushed halorhodopsins of their different And Nathan [INAUDIBLE],, when and succeeded the same So light-driven proton pumps-- this is sort of surprising We don't think of protons or outside neurons. At neutral pH, they're less concentrated than and the other ions we often So to our surprise, we found rhodopsin 3, when we allowed us to make and to silence neural activity So this was really to knowledge digital silencing in awake behaving animals. And we find these molecules genomic databases or our own genomic investigations. And there are different So one, of course, is if you you can search locally Look at species that you found the if you can find improvements. So for example, there's an the archaerhodopsin 3 came. And [INAUDIBLE] to search in species And the original molecule arch but small [INAUDIBLE] ArchT You can also search So [INAUDIBLE] that a species of fungus, maculans, had a And we got the gene, which And we found that it was activity. And because Mac this is the action spectrum, the on the x-axis-- you could express Mac in a different neurons and then use to differentially affect them. So a Mac expressing neuron would and a molecule light sensitive molecule will That molecule that was was actually that very that I mentioned been found in by [INAUDIBLE] to be sensitive to light in that was much lower And this molecule-- we published neural silencing back in 2007. But it was a fairly The currents were as we might have hoped. So we started thinking about properties and find molecules that are that are much more powerful? And you could also that have a red shifted Now why would you want that? Well, when Amy [INAUDIBLE] was we started thinking about in the brain. And of course, this is well long before us. But if you put blue, green, there is absorption and But if you go to red there's less absorption. And that's one of the reasons It doesn't absorb And so the top are are actual measurements suggested that redshifting be quite powerful. So as often begins, through different genomes and stumbled across a class halorhodopsin class for the seem to have a redshifted to the original. And then thanks to decades through point mutogenesis we made a couple point mutations And what we found was that for this molecule because it came from the we could actually get shine that through of an awake-behaving neurons many millimeters Nathan [INAUDIBLE],, when he tried to do something similar And so he did a very He computationally looked in a project that's headed the 1,000 plant project new channelrhodopsins of them looking for a function. As you can see from the didn't work at all, And these are his in the red, the green, the blue. And he found after this enormous to red light, which And crimson allows you to drive to red light. We made a point mutant crimson And you can even use light Here's 735 centimeter to spike in a slice of So of course, you can to activate large volumes but it's also found use in I didn't even [INAUDIBLE] research wanted a better for drosophila-- fruit flies. And the problem if you use blue, they have a startle response. They kind of flail their arms But if you use then the effect is minimized. And he was then able to elicit, activation, behavior And so now it's in very community, for example. Nathan in also this screen found So one that he is a channelrhodopsin and so it's found uses in parts is important, like in or in the stimulation of axons And interestingly, these two have also been very can be used together. So if you look at the and the color on the of course here is has a peak out and you can drive it in the red. Here's Cronos in and then the original 2 in the black triangles. But they're all recruitable, by blue light. So we made the use dim blue light so dim that it wouldn't and we could then use bright we could differentially of independent populations. So groups have now at multiple synaptic or how a neuromodulatory pathway pathway in the brain because control over these pathways. So a lot of the work has been in the for interesting properties or extreme kinetic performance. But what about getting of spatial resolution? Could you get single cell, or single spike So we started collaborating on holographic Valentina Miliani at the And this is work and [INAUDIBLE] So she builds like this where you have a laser of a spatial light modulator a hologram into the brain-- of light, if you will. And so we decided, could try to build optimized for this purpose? Importantly, we sure the opsins are located and not on all the This is an idea that Frank [INAUDIBLE] and had tried taking the to and fusing peptides to at the cell body. Now, why is that? Well, even if you you're going to hit the axons that come by. And by fusing a can localize it So we thought, well, we What if we do a double screen enable very powerful control body and also peptides them to be targeted there? It turns out that that Nathan had found which, if we had known we would have come up is a very powerful of magnitude higher occurrence channelrhodopsin 2. And so we thought the cell body, that might help because you're depriving the those currents that would And then [INAUDIBLE] that when infused to to the cell body for expression. Here's a sea of green And here, you can see cells intervals between them. So why is that helpful? Well, if you record your holographic laser about, about a third of the observed straight activation. But if you located the molecules the effect went down So in summary, a has been an [INAUDIBLE] The molecules essentially had speeds and that made them appropriate for And in recent tried to push the tool box of performance-- maximizing shifting colors, and But it's interesting what about the opposite? Can we learn from and do anything for the activity? Can we get neurons to light So in this case, of has not made us so lucky. There is no molecule will convert neural with the right speed and You know, what we got did not translate to the So naturally we if the natural world why don't we build do the evolution And so when [INAUDIBLE] were postdocs in my to try to build basically Why can't we build a robot what we do when we're but in an automated way? So how do you do that? Well, suppose you They can be obtained or they could be that you want to evolve Some of the mutants might be and some might be less. And then we into cultured mammalian one copy, a different mutant. And then you can use to scan around and look for that have things of the right and efficacy and all want for indicators that, for provided. Then we bring in a robotic arm [INAUDIBLE]. And we can then pull out the genes that are interesting. Now it turns out that Adam had made the serendipitous archaerhodopsin 3 that I'd discovered was a very was actually a weakly And his team went called quasar 2 that was but still quite dim and not very And nevertheless, it's been for imaging voltage. So we thought, why don't we and this might be one of screens ever done in We did almost 10 million mutants And let's screen for We want the molecule and well-localized and Why screen for Well, if you're trying and mutate it and then screen it in one direction-- say, you might devolve it away that you seek. Evolution doesn't It's just trying to And so here, you on the y-axis and which is sort of a proxy of And each circle is containing a different mutant. And indeed, you can from molecules that but, you know what, And then there are molecules but, hey, they're no better So with this, we did a couple and found a molecule that well-localized to the membrane. In the lower left, which it inherited from And on the right, has good and signal to noise. And so we gave it to groups who did some measurements of They would stimulate in one synaptic events in a and just focus on And black is what you see when sort of a ground And the magenta are imaged on a microscope. So it turns out that this is You can shine 630 is sort of the color and it'll emit redder and longer. More recently, [INAUDIBLE] from Michelle Hahn's expressing this in and being able to in multiple regions cortex, visual cortex, stratum. These traces look like but they're being In this case, you an epifluorescent or And you can even see a in an awake behaving animal and look at the dynamics of Importantly, since this molecule you can use it in conjunction and drive neurons So you can imagine [INAUDIBLE] neural activity while looking as well. So in summary, we want to do for had done for optogenetics. And turns out that can be mutated to useful fluorescent indicator in this case, the But ideally, you'd be and perturb it with also these cells are connected upstream cells that bring in have outputs. How do you know what And so the last want to talk about some which is, I think, going to a pipeline for generating with optogenetics. And this is a way maps of brain circuitry. Now why is this hard? Well, many people are to make maps of brain who have pioneered the looking at large scale electron But it's very hard to with electron microscopy. There's also super Store microscopy was But it's difficult to large 3D structures because of super resolution microscopy. So starting with two then and Paul Tilburg-- and now that half our we decided, well, what on the brain, we could What if you could install mash of swallowable material diapers around and between all soften the specimen by treating and could you blow up the And so this owes a debt to a Actually, my MIT who unfortunately passed away attack-- but in was studying the physics polymers. So in this cartoon, you You add water, and it's The polymer swells. And it's a highly charged So the physical growth can be of time. And he published this the sort of phase transition as the polymer fold in volume in a You also have to and there's also a People like Peter [INAUDIBLE] like polyacrylimide and taking in these polyacrylamide to improve their imaging. So if you could synthesize but make it a charged polymer, cell like the one on the left of life apart from each other the one on the right-- the constellation hovering in space, but with preserved. So how do we do it? Well, we had to invent In this cartoon, the And we had to invent handles proteins-- and now on sugars and lipids-- and put little anchors or so we can apply force to Then we have to And so we use free to synthesize the except we use these charged to form a poly acrylate mesh. And the spacing between is very tiny, around the And when these chains encounter they form a bond. Finally, we soften the tissue or even enzymes And then we add water. The polymers will swell-- as out the physics long ago-- but this time, the biomolecules So we published the that we could evenly expand the And Panel B is a The polymer is very, very dense. So spacing is, again, After the process, grows until it's like about 100 times Now, by design, we made the synthesized that we wanted it But this is biology. It's not enough You have to prove it. And so we and many doing very detailed where we take a pre-expansion of nano-imaging like Storm. And then we take a after we blow up the And the distortion is not maybe around a couple of tens to hundreds of microns. So here on the left, you can the cortex and hippocampus. This is a Thy1-YFP mouse that and colleagues made And we're going to zoom That white square, we blow up. And you can see two cell that are synapses that And we're going And the purplish because you've hit of our confocal microscope. That's all before expansion, you can now see cleanly the of these neural connections. Blue is an antibody against the Magenta is of-- taken with an a post-synaptic protein. And the distance between is the same that Catherine Zhuang measured many years Except now you can use hardware already have. [INAUDIBLE] Group, to try to apply some that their group had invented And the effect is that we of magnitude speed up over technologies. It's just a matter to make the And so this was work and [INAUDIBLE] triply and Eric Betzig's group. Imaging mitochondria and And myelin at the bottom. We can look at synapses, and exome architectures of the [INAUDIBLE] cortex. And our hope is that we might speed up just by further not too many months from now. So the beauty here is image at scale across but without losing sight of in a brain. So here is the same We have synaptic proteins And we now have YFP in yellow. And now we're kind but we can zoom in and get very And this is kind And in the interest of time, here where we're going to start more of the context. And you can then again This is a movie that we made where the dopaminergic a [INAUDIBLE] protein. And I just like it because it as you fly through it. We're going to go right right there. And now we're going to go out of the fruit fly brain. And I hope you can see that and dendrites, but we the entire brain as well. So why is it helpful? Well, you can really start to Here's another Harvard from Jeff Whitman, and others where you in combinations in brain cells. So this blue cell delivered by a virus. This green cell got This aqua one might have And if you zoom in on two hippocampus-- you quickly of the microscope. And it's hard to It's a blur, right? What's this green banana shape? But after you expand, resolve the individual And so we and others to design machine-learning to automatically trace neural with a strategy which and also to use expansion to So to summarize, we discovered magnify biological systems. And this technique has really with people making discoveries in a wide variety of species. Not just brain cells-- Giardia parasites. In the lower left, E. coli. In the upper right, planaria And the list goes So our last slide is-- what is if we can build Suppose with can make comprehensive And then you can go in and using fluorescent indicators that neurons perform. And then go in with that to do a causal test Can we assemble this into a maybe even yield of how neural circuits in dysfunction? So I think of the knowledge who have led specific put up this slide, which I I will just acknowledge within the group at who helped with these projects of people in the with us to make this a reality. It's really an omnidisciplinary So I hope you can use these We have a big And feel free to email me [APPLAUSE] Thank you very much, Ed. So now we have about And we'll come back [UNINTELLIGIBLE CHATTER] [SIDE CONVERSATION] OK, if everybody can we're ready to start again. Welcome back for the second half We're going to follow with the two awardees So our first talk is Gero's the Waynflete at the University of of the Center for Neural He's from Austria. And he did his medical in which he studied really and then took a remarkable and came to the United with Jim Rothman on the pathways in cells. And what I like is that when he faces and I think he's by biological problems. When he faces a he creates a tool to solve it. So when he was in Jim's lab, he the first GFP-based sensor or at least one of the first-- which was the he exploited the pH sensitivity of GFP in order to create a changed from the to the extracellular environment This has been very important as to monitor, among other things, from neurons. When he set up his he chose something in and animal mammalian physiology-- nervous system and how the brain of that smaller Again, faced with problems, of optogenetics. One was to reconstitute, before, the entire pathway of the fly those cells sensitive to light. It was a great demonstration. I don't think you really used So then he went on a second approach, which was were not present in the fruit light-activated ligands. And he's used that to make fundamental discoveries between activity and And I have great I think he's going about some biology including on the basis of sleep Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Thank you very much, kind introduction. It's obviously an enormous honor In fact, the honor is so large that I with my doppelganger. This is Dr. Gero. [LAUGHTER] We have more in common He is also a scientist. And a mad one in this Japanese He strives for world And if you look see that his skull has been Plexiglas dome, of course, of specific genetically-targeted can be controlled with light. And that's what Now, what motivated the some 20 years ago was the idea would open three experimental had previously been locked. The first of these to pinpoint the neuronal with much greater had been practical previously. And this idea, really, reflects as Jim Rothman's that I was exposed was reconstitution, In other words, if you want to understand how What you do is you purify as you put them back together. And you reconstitute the from these pure components. So when I started my what would be the equivalent for a neuroscientist? And, of course, that equivalent the electrical activity patterns play them back into And if you, in this way, action, emotion, thought, that you really understand actually based in the physics The second thought optogenetics was the probing for is classically done in paired electrode searches. And in more modern approaches, through large scale of neural circuits. One alternative would be to replace one of with a light beam that can And then just listening whenever the light beam and in this way, unravels And the third experimental is the test of If you have a conjecture then, of course, the whether that conjecture is to interfere in a targeted So for much of the today, I will relate on a biological problem in unlocked all three of these And that problem is and neuronal control of sleep. Sleep is one of the great Each night, we disconnect for seven or eight hours-- a state that leaves us And yet, despite we still have no clue as We are trying to get at the by understanding its neuronal that somehow the brain's must respond to molecular linked to the core It's widely thought that systems in our brains on this classical diagram by two The sine wave represents the which oscillates predictable external are caused by Earth's rotation. As such, it's a purely that makes sure we it suits our lifestyles best. But understanding the to the deeper mystery to sleep in the first place. The solution to that will come from understanding the sawtooth oscillation that's clock. And that sawtooth oscillation The homeostat measures happens in our brains or our That something accumulates it's the same-- during waking. And when a certain threshold The process resets itself and then the cycle we wake up on the next morning. We know a lot about And this is really that broke that problem open, and his grad student Ron of fruit flies whose abnormally fast or slow. And from that discovery, through the work of over the past five decades, cellular, and of circadian timekeeping. This slide, in contrast, everything we know about-- [LAUGHTER] --the molecular basis And it's an not too gross an overstatement. And my goal for the rest of the to draw at least a few outlines Conceptually, we know how It's a relaxation oscillator, that switches between a where waking corresponds to called sleep pressure builds. Until a tipping the system flips And then the accumulated Now, at the end to propose a molecular pressure is, when the and what the process are that this switching between a The story begins, like Seymour in fruit flies with the in the lab, Jeff Donnelly, a graduate student with University in St. Louis of flies that exert a powerful and waking. There's about two They're labeled here by a R23E10. So whenever you see you know that a is targeted selectively or so out of the make up the fruit fly's brain. The neurons project structure in the midline. This is one particular of the central complex. Why such a small can exert such a powerful most dramatic global we undergo on a daily but a topic for Now, together, Jeff that these neurons represents homeostat. The neurons themselves, they've originally identified where the brains of flies with actuated molecules. So this is one example or, in his case, thermal where the neuronal can be pinpointed in an genetic screen. So the way we do is that we We let it walk on a spherical ball, whose rotations we read mouse. And since there are of somnambulism that whenever the the fly must be awake. What you can't see is that the And we've inserted into one of these 24 and expressed an in the entire So we can control the of these neurons have one recording electrode member of that population. And this is now an experiment You'll see that the It's moving along happily. The ball is spinning. These are the rates tick marks. And the sleep control At about three or four minutes, You can see that the neuron begins to emit And all movement virtually At about 19 minutes or so, we The sleep control And movement quickly resumes. So we have isolated of the animal that allows us to on command. Now, during many we found that when of these sleep-inducing cells these neurons were typically In one state, shown here on the like you would expect a you see that it of depolarizing currents frequency grows in a graded of the injected current. The neuron on the does not initially looked You can see we can still to positive membrane voltages a single electrical It's not just the active that have changed. It's also the passive If you compare the size are elicited by standard-sized you can see that the voltage are very large, suggesting the injected current whereas the voltage are much, much smaller. Also, the neuron on the right to settle into potential after a current it takes quite much longer. So this combination of a and the low-input is almost diagnostic of the or a current shunt. And I'll show you what the molecular basis Now, when we saw this, we, of well, maybe this of homeostatic sleep control. Maybe these neurons between electrically depending on whether the And our sampling of histories have been manipulated, anecdotally. But of course, in nail this point, to capable of transitioning as a function of one would like to that translation directly. And in order to need to know a signal that and actuates the switch. Now what might such a signal be? Well, a clue to the had come in the in which the was controlled optogenetically. These experiments were done Susana Lima, at Yale in 2004. And what Susana had done light-gated ion channels in the brains of flies and trajectories for two minutes on dopaminergic activity Here, you see examples of in a circular arena before and after activation and you clearly has a highly arousing as it, of course, Most psychostimulants-- cocaine, acts by inhibiting reuptake and thereby elevates So one potential act on these is an arousal-inducing And there is, in fact, a that extends their processes region that's also inhabitants In fact, the two neurons so closely that the arises whether they are And optogenetic to probe for these connections electrode from one of the while manipulating the putative the dopaminergic neurons. So this is now where we start with our in the electrically and then we switch on the innervate these neurons We can even predict of such an arousing dopaminergic should be. It should, of course, silence And this should be the mechanism And this is exactly You can see that after the neuron falls silent, the Also, the passive membrane the input resistance constant shortens, if we hold the which we can do can see that these reversible after an So this suspension of electrical It's part of the normal duty and not an artifact by our experimental If we use the passive membrane and time constant as a of these changes, we can see with the time constant of is, of course, way too for by the production but must instead, of the existing channel And we can also demonstrate on the sleep-control because we have discovered in these neurons that And if we remove that from these neurons become resistant to the become unable to wake up. And literally, doze spending 23 and 1/2 Now, the ability to control of the sleep-control gave us the means to dissect mechanism. In the interest of time, I will What we discovered is that there get modulated antagonistically active on state, which state, and the electrically corresponds to the awake state. There's the classical shaker, which gets upregulated and a [INAUDIBLE] that we've discovered gets translocated of sleep-inducing neurons the electrical activity off. And it's the potassium current that underpins the seen in the electrophysiology. So that's responsible for the and the low-input Now, knowing the of this transition then allows us to reframe the question, what is the into a mechanistically We can ask, what switches the sleep-inducing on. And in fact, we can even more mechanistically know the crucial role that is channels. Any sleep-inducing signal must ultimately act by and by driving the channel that acts as a deterrent of these neurons. I'll focus, for on our understanding of of which there has been than in the Sandman control. Now shaker, like many channels, is a composed of two different There is a pore-performing alpha to which is appended a beta subunit Now if you zoom in closer you see that it actually cofactor bound shown is the nicotinamide NADPH. This structure solved that revealed this enzymatic because when the first of these were cloned some 25 years that they are actually enzymes, And that then are these molecules or are they redox-controlled I will present you evidence that and that their ability in cellular-redox chemistry of the regulation of sleep, to the biological I will also argue be the interplay between and the active that's the fundamental underlies sleep homeostasis. It was also noted even if these molecules, subunits, clearly look they are terrible enzymes. They have very, very And one of the is evident in this If you look that the binding cleft, is almost closed in by a tryptophan residue that And it's this obstacle that slows down the We think that this is an for the ability of these in sleep pressure. Now in fruit flies, is a protein called which Chiara Cirelli and more than 10 years ago. Causes insomnia, then mutates. It's just like mutations also lead to insomniac flies. But here, we've reproduce showing that homicide as are indeed insomniacs, can rescue these insomnia by restoring wild-type in these 24 So this points to these cells the action of the protein. Now surprisingly, if you that carries a allows normal expression, of the beta subunit but abolishes its the rescue no longer works. So the insomniac flies This suggested to us that role must be tied to its ability and sense changes in From that inference, then The first one is that are expected to accompany and second, that perturb the redox chemistry of that should have From this inference, and and our knowledge of then also follows the conclusion monitor these redox processes metabolism because this redox chemistry is ultimately in the way electrons are handled in the of mitochondria. So when we stumbled into this we certainly needed in mitochondrial And I suspect that something So here's a very of mitochondrial We have three proton-pumping mitochondrial membrane-- one, three, and four. One accepts mostly from the Krebs from the oxidation of fatty And these electrons in a very carefully due to the explosive nature of from one complex to the other ubiquinone, or Q, between and cytochrome c between The proton gradient across the inner is then, of course, used by the synthase, which you phosphorylates ADP to ATP. So what you see where the ATP demand is high. There is a high level of ADP, of NADH fuel. So demand and supply But when that is not the case-- so when you have an but ATP reserves that are force that is large-- then the ATP Electrons still get stuffed at complex one, but They accumulate, mostly and start to transfer and produce the oxygen-free So we would predict that during the state of waking, Sandman is inserted shunts their electrical from producing energetically But the animal had its breakfast or has ample caloric to exactly these conditions. That electrons are fed into the but somehow, there is little and so that should render prone to mitochondrial To test this idea, we of the sleep-inducing called &quot;MitoTimerm&quot; of the green fluorescent converts irreversibly from So this is sort of an of mitochondrial oxidative burn. They express this sleep-inducing neurons, as [INAUDIBLE] dendritic fields. What you see here through the dendtritic fields whose sleep histories differed. And you can see that in flies awake-- that's just the top row-- there's a clear redshift of suggesting that these suffer a larger degree than well-rested Now what we also noted the basal sleep of flies protein in the mitochondria, sleep-controlled neurons, but significant, namely flies that had lost a small but significant of daily sleep. And we suggest that that as MitoTimer is acts as a buffer for And it's the consumption of that's reflected in To test this notion we looked for better And probably, the best there So this is another that many of the best tools of the kingdom of life. So many plants have electron-transport chains with Our terminal oxidase And plants have an called AOX that taps directly and acts as an there are too many electrons So it's not an uncouplet. It doesn't interfere It simply takes electrons and detoxifies them to molecular oxygen So when we introduce into the inner mitochondrial you see that the sleep almost eight hours per day. So capping mitochondrial production at the to ease the pressure to sleep. Now in animals, the typical are two enzymes-- superoxide dismutases. We manipulated both. I showed you the Superoxide-- this mutates one. The cytoplasmic in an antioxidant form, which namely a reduction in sleep-- but there is also that turns the antioxidant and introducing this has the opposite effect, But the increase if we remove either the hyperkinetic or the from these neurons. So Altogether we think these suggest that the potassium couples mitochondrial Now, you probably ask be that am extremely short-lived or hydrogen peroxide, because it's so highly reactive, is conveyed from the chain all the way to a that's suspended from What we think is missing a crucial biochemical And we also have a this particular We think it's lipid are derived from These lipids are some of of oxygen-free radicals. And importantly, they as the 4-oxo-2-nonenal which are established substrates. The beta subunits are oxidal aldo-keto reductases. So they take carbonyl compounds And the oxo-2-nonenal is so it has the correct chemistry And that reduction would then of NADPH to NADP+. There are several additional that suggests that this One is that Rod MacKinnon, of his structure, notices of the beta subunit is And he also notices that there density in the active site. To me, this suggests that it's that's bound to the crystal. And, of course, since fatty the breakdown products that through pure oxidation. It will also be produce a clear diffraction So the idea, then, is that the rising sea pressure in these oxidation of the cofactor at the from NADPH to NADP+, is linked to the So we, of course, looked for and found an optogenetic tool-- tool-- that would allow us and through a pulse of of the cofactor that's bound to The tool that we by the late Roger been mentioned several as a genetically agent for electron microscopy. The tool is called miniSOG, It's an engineered which we have, in with a lipid modification in the In close proximity to And then, upon illumination, to oxidize the NADPH or via a locally produced lipid And that, of course, then, should put flies to sleep. And as you can see in these The crucial column to look In all cases, we measure each row is one fly-- for 30 minutes after an to blue light. And you can see that, compared flies that have in much greater than the parental controls. Once again, the by the removal of hyperkinetic. That's the fourth But it's not blocked of an innocuous potassium Now the ability to set the directly throughout then also opens to biophysical studies to the excitability as we flip the state So we're able to patch onto neurons, and then, again, after measure either, in current or in voltage clamp, of the voltage-gated This is an example of a neuron after illumination, the The input-output The inter-spike So in other words, the neuron electrically active. And the biophysical all of this in the voltage-gated is a lengthening of the So the potassium channel starts with an oxidized cofactor Now when Chuck Stevens defined the A-type they included a they proposed that the main determinant of of persistently active neurons. And conceptually-- the way to link inactivation in the following way-- you need a powerful to restore the membrane after a spike. If your neuron is persistently you will push a certain fraction into the inactivated make them unavailable during By slowing the inactivation, of your channel population in And that allows you faster higher spike rates, and in context, deeper or longer sleep. If we express just you can see that But the changes that we within cell reflected in between cell compared the this is the bottom row now-- that either express the or the catalytically So you can see that the transgenes, again, and slowly inactivating And the same is also of the cells' ability the production of or to induce them of this pro-oxidant So this suggests that be a direct mechanistic of living and sleep, which given the Many things that have been implicated in aging And of course, chronic has also been implicated as a So possibly, this that might link these So we've reached a return to this and try to replace it, for you, animation. On the next animation, that but I'll talk you, So the crucial regulator whether this sleep-inducing mode, and the animal is the sandman channel, which can be either or in intracellular vesicles. We know that dopamine And we are feverishly the signal that causes the channel. So when sandman is in the plasma And the cofactor of the population gets progressively as a reflection of the operation electron transport chain. Now I mentioned to you, before, are probably the lousiest And of course, that's you would desire if you were to Because what you need is holds on to each and out of multiple then constructs an analog sleep pressure. If the enzyme was each oxidation would be And your accumulated sleep Now through this ability to communicate with gate of the channel and to time constant, the automatically determines the Because it is the fraction of been oxidized that of the A-type current, and of the neuron. Now one particularly important is, of course, that the somehow has to be dissipated goes to sleep. And what we think a particularly this is by coupling of the beta subunit to the of the alpha subunit. So as you see on when sandman moves the neuron becomes The voltage sensors These conformational get transmitted to And suddenly, an escape path for NADP+ gets kicked out, And the animal with its cofactor Before I finish, I'd like to to the very Stone When we started to work on the I became aware, through to the synapto-pHluorin paper of a quotation that mentioned in his introduction. And that showed to the only scientist who had like this. And obviously, Francis &quot;The impact of molecular which was published in of The Philosophical Society, wrote, as said, &quot;The next able to turn the firing of on or off in a rapid manner The ideal signal would be light. This seems rather far-fetched, that molecular biologists could type to be sensitive So when we had the first far-fetched possibility and these are these experiments. These are hippocampal in culture, transfected protein taken from the fly eye. Because the correct dobson had not yet And GFP-- so we of these transfected neurons. You can see that, in the dark, But as soon as we there's a depolarizing step. And the neuron responds with So when we had I sent Crick a And if you've read this The Eighth Day of recounts the early days you know that Crick was a steered the development through a vast correspondence. And his stylistic hallmarks as He was always encouraging, constructively critical. And that's exactly what I got. So he wrote back to read the paper I had sent and was excited to see that at least to some extent. However, he realized, as I improvement and that this was-- and that this would Unfortunately, Crick how not just our but those of many others. But I think it's fair to say come, thanks, in large and that, as a result the way the neuroscientists has fundamentally changed. With that, thank you very much. And thank you too. [APPLAUSE] To the members of like to mention a few So the current crew is And some of the notable by one tab stop to the right. Boris Zemelman was made the first optogenetic the graduate student who used And the recent work on sleep two postdocs, Jeff Donlea and the more recent work on by a postdoc, Anissa Kempf, and Thanks. [APPLAUSE] Thanks, Carol, for So our next talk is It's by Dr. Charlotte Arlt. did her undergraduate work and then went from there Houser at University and then came to the laboratory of Chris of neurobiology. And she's going to she uses light to read the activity of to understand in the brains of a mouse. [APPLAUSE] Thank you very much to share our recent work. It's truly an honor. And I'm excited to our work at this occasion. Coming back to the we make decisions in our If you think of being a tennis for example, which I he has to make up his mind of or to the right But the process by which might very much depend on the So in this case, imagine and you are in a Your coach is across the net. And the coach instructs to the exact same spot. So in this case, the mapping is very straightforward to you, But now imagine you're and you're playing in the Nadal. The ball is coming towards as in training. And you might hit it But now what's is a complex model including a model and statistics of So this combination with some internal knowledge is what we think And in the Harvey to understand how this in the nervous system. We understand this is a so we try to tackle it by asking in this talk. Firstly, we want to know mediate such seemingly simple to the left or to the right. And once we've identified we can then ask, how affect the implementation of in these very circuits? And what I want to is how we search mediating simple decisions. And to our surprise, we and the involved brain would change depending on the of the animal. So for the remainder I'd like to tell you how we Wanting to study brain we don't have tennis players. But we train mice by running to the left We think this is quite for animals to what they need to do in the And once we train mice to we can then inhibit and silence and ask, what brain areas to guide their decisions? And you can imagine to manipulate different brain might be quite heavy and to carry around. So instead of having the mouse we actually move the and keep the mouse stationary. So here you see an animal in It's running while And the Styrofoam ball the movement of this into movement of that we project on the animal's field of view. So animals are using that they get from this world to We can use the mice to turn either in a very simple Y-shaped maze. And we train them to use that they see on the maze walls So in the top example, is seeing vertical cues And in this case, it has to to get a reward In the bottom case, it sees of vertical cue. And then it has to So let's see what this in a trained mouse. The animal in the left case successfully runs to the left, gets some visual feedback of And then a little drop of milk And a few trials the opposite trial type, chooses to run to is the correct and again, gets Now that we have in this virtual can expose their brains from the skull, and thereby surface right underneath. We're using mice that express heard about a lot so in GABAergic neurons So these neurons are the depicted in green, that inhibit And the parameter the ones that carry information out to different brain regions. So when we now shine light onto the skull, we can through the skull. And those interneurons, in turn, thereby silencing a given And we can do this with very again, as you've heard Here the light is on, For just a few the interneuron that there responds And the parameter recorded underneath is pausing And at this point, the pioneers of optogenetics, Because none of the experiments would have been possible And even after running these now, it's still astonishing to activity in a living What areas do we We focused on a for decision-making, one of The parietal cortex for many different projects to different areas So it's really at the and action, and has been across species. Another region we're focusing given that we're using decision-making task. Because the at the interface between for navigation, such and the entorhinal cortex, including the parietal cortex. We can now couple to a system of mirrors whose quickly to steer the laser locations on the skull. So in one trial, be inhibiting parietal here while the animal and choosing to And then in the next change the mirror positions onto a different region-- We choose the order of these And we also interleaf them where we steer the laser We have another control trial in we inhibit a local volume involved in making these decisions. So given that we where animals are in this virtual reality, and areas, we can finally necessary for making this simple And we do this by where the laser beam was and then quantifying of the animal in those trials. So we quantify correct where 1, or making no mistakes. And 0.5, or 50%, means at chance level, either or continuously running But you see here, the performance is very high, The animal is making very that it knows this also that it's not distracted When we now inhibit some we see a very similar that the animal is not in that area to guide When we inhibit we see a very where, every time, on average, area, we are causing the in this type of indicating that it's on activity in this area And now quite surprisingly, the animal can still indicating that seems to be dispensable and the animal can do So having identified, now, as an area that's mediating of decisions, we and modify the context in which So we create a where, on top of that I've showed you the animal has to make the same visual cue. In a given experimental introduce these two in blocks of tens of trials. And once an animal in this setting for it can perform making mistakes, really, at the So after a switch of the animal makes a few using the old association. Then it realizes it doesn't and updates its the new pair of associations. So towards the end of the animals are performing at And their decisions, very similar to the made in the simple context. And let me just show you how In the left case, that was trained in It encounters this and has to turn to the left. In the right, you was trained in the flexible the same trial type, also And when you just look at they really look that the types of decisions, are very similar. So now as a sanity wanted to see if, is actually mediating decisions So we inhibited the same before, but now of these blocks, where at very high fraction it knows the association well. So again, in the or with some outer the animal is performing Again, with retrosplenial we induce many errors. But now you see the drop close to 50%, meaning the at chance level. So in this flexible to especially rely on activity to guide its decisions. But now, quite we inhibit parietal see a very large And again, we didn't in performance in So in the flexible not just retrosplenial cortex but the animal is also relying area, the parietal cortex, in the simple context, for the it didn't need. And given that we were quite we wanted to make sure that It seems like the current whether this necessary for decision-making. Now if that's true, we the exact same mouse, change experiencing, and thereby that are involved So to test this, we took an animal in the flexible context. And again, to remind you, with we see a very large So the animal is using And then we to the simple where it's not experiencing In the control case, of stays very high. But now, stunningly, when we continue to see the suggesting that in using this decision-making simple decision switched the animal from the And we thought this was again, when we compare in the animals that were trained Because again, animals trained have never seen the do not rely on this brain area, to guide their decisions. So in addition to the current brain areas are used context can also have a on what brain areas are used to Finally, we wondered see this very large Because perhaps we're looking Or maybe it's some we're comparing this simple It could be that, perhaps, the demanding for the the same cue has to be So we created another context have to reverse its create a more diverse context. So we keep the two associations And then we add two with different visual cues. But now, importantly, from the visual cue to the rewarded is constant. So finally, we ask what relies on in this type And again, we see not only parietal cortex being to guide its decisions. So it seems that has a very strong impact used for decision-making. And context can be You can increase or you can make the And probably, there on top of these two that would change the number in decision-making. So we think we've interesting about namely that it can implement from the outside using circuits. And this suggests that tremendously flexible and by context and experience. Because we're not just the synaptic connections We're talking about using of brain regions for And we think this might have for how we want as systems neuroscientists. Because we have shown that details, and training If we have two animals seemingly identical be relying on to do so depending So we need to control for But in addition, we are also should leverage this more diverse and naturalistic study decision-making. Now where do we With Sofia Soares, we've built a special allows us to image different So we're currently to look at activity in all that I've talked to And we're asking how but also across those on the cognitive context the seemingly same decisions. And another interesting taken by other lab to actually get to of those individual areas. So all the that I've shown you silencing entire brain regions. But Selmaan, in lab, where he can activate while monitoring the activity So here you see, he's intentionally, with at a time in the living brain. And he can use this about the function, and and about computations circuit may be performing. And Dan Wilson, has taken this approach activating 10 neurons here shown with the blue arrow. And he's doing this as animals So he can ask what is between the activity that he can functionally that respond to a visual using to guide its choice. So you can link activity now, to the network to the performance trying to draw causal of individual neurons And with that, I'd who's contributed to this Roberto Barroso-Luque. He was a research whom I very closely collaborated and who is now off But he really helped to in all different directions, to I'd also like to thank been a tremendous advisor on from training mice all the I really value his input, for science in general. I'd also like to thank Selmaan, this flexible inspired the whole the whole Harvey Lab community and great feedback, our and instrumentation core, and in general. [APPLAUSE] Thank you, Charlotte. That was wonderful. So our last speaker is Dr. He is the Chen in the departments of an interesting combination Karl did his undergraduate majoring in biochemistry, to do a combined MD/PhD. He also worked with Dick the coupling between entry, and cellular processes. And this is where I Because I was doing similar After finishing graduate he did clinical and is still a As we've already mentioned, were the first to into mammalian neurons could control the excitability Since then, his led a steady drumbeat of over the years, in literally dozens of different that we can use to manipulate His lab has also produced protein-coupled receptors, and many, many other tools. Separately, his laboratory clearing-- the brain clearing now being used at the structure of the that don't need to be sliced. This has become a very And as you'll see in to inventing technologies, used these to make about the organization and I think, led by his own has really begun to reveal decisions in a normal how this goes wrong in Karl, thank you. [APPLAUSE] All right, thank you, Renardo. Very grateful for And heartfelt congratulations This is a wonderful moment. So thank you for all I want to-- since have heard a lot about things. So I'm going to move, as quickly without spending too I do want to talk a little bit about the inner workings of itself. The progress of this As recently as 2011, about the inner structure But things have over the ensuing six years. We now know a great deal. Here's that retinol binding This is the ion pore, lined including these five And attaining this level of is, of course, exciting in who care about and amazingly, elegant but of course, also has led change their properties really matter and are useful. For example, we were as Peter mentioned-- so spiking with a very fast in 2010, getting as we did in 2011, together Izar, who's here today, with the step function into and out of and then making the and then making that, in turn, And all of these stemmed structural determinations, and in collaboration with Peter talented colleagues. I want to touch on two aspects were particularly to modern neurobiology. Of course, a big part of it structures. When we got the 2012 with [INAUDIBLE] Cato, Ramakrishnan, and saw, right away, it 7-transmembrane proteins. Each one had its own But we also-- in seeing the had the opportunity It had been prominently that the pore might lie-- rather than within lie at the interface of a This turned out to be wrong. But of course, not even it would be very hard And we were able to do that. In looking at the inner lining we could see that with polar, but also residues to give rise to negative in the internal and in the inner and And this led to an idea to This wild-type channelrhodopsin channel, as you've heard, calcium and protons. And Andre Barent and worked hard to change that inner And they succeeded. Against all odds, this came out, from Peter Hegemon-- a similar both ending up in creating channelrhodopsin allows one to deliver of spiking. And together with Peter, and created the step forms of these inhibitory channelrhodopsins. So these have been, For example, together with Will is now here as we were able to the next-generation version to identify the causal roles in the fundamental Now this is just one example. Getting to the connecting channelrhodopsins But then a very The following year, identified naturally conducting channelrhodopsins And just last year, we were able of both the naturally channel and the one that we had And this gave us a very into both the natural conducting channelrhodopsins, engineered one and the one in fact, used this principle of within the pore, and vestibules of the channel likely, anions and [INAUDIBLE] to create a anion So this revealed-- and we were conducting channelrhodopsins to take cation conducting give them anion on this structure-based So at this point, we at least to some extent. And as you'll see helped us screen for, and new kinds of opsins that have But I want to talk as a very important step first. And this red-light-driven depended on discovery channelrhodopsin, in collaboration with but work led by Feng In 2008, he found channelrhodopsin from a called Volvox carteri. And this enabled, didn't realize that it would this ultimately beyond what Crick's initial of light control might be. And this has been shown But I want to focus on a of Crick's initial statement. He very clearly focused on engineer a cell type. And indeed, this is very useful. And indeed, this is how the has been done around to turn on or off genetically But he didn't, describe a control of multiple is what, ultimately, channelrhodopsin have done Of course, in the very we controlled single cells. But this was in-- with a readout of a patch And here, showing some of here is the small Here's myself, the good old days. With Mike Greenberg it's nice to point out of membrane depolarization was I was initially a patch did a lot of work that on Mike's identification and allowed us to study this very event. So let the word go forth, Symposium, that Mike Greenberg So thank you, Mike. [LAUGHTER] But then, of course, Ed's Fong's elegant and his design of fiber-optic to control in behaving animals-- and that led to this initial in 2007, where this illumination M2 on the one-sided to rotate in the As soon as the little the animal stops rotating. Now even this was with In this case, the was layer 5 cortical neurons. And we went on from there to in the lateral hypothalamus-- again, work led by Feng Zhong but all of this cell types. And what ultimately turned useful in opening the was a derivative of the that Ofar, and and several in our group It's a chimera of from minimonis and Volvox Roheat Prekash, in my lab was, here using a patch clamp configuration in a and doing raster scanning above the cell, not within the cell, and just below the cell, so single-cell resolution And this was work with Adam Packer and Rafa Usta. And it was back to back with between our two groups showing modulator, a holographic control But that was in culture. It took a number of and the present to into the control of by control of multiples-- The path to this led through using the of the Volvox-driven and the blue-light-actuated like the GCaMP series that about already today. And we had combined-- together with David Tank, we'd together with signals, blue-light-driven in 2014. But it was not with It was simply showing do all optical interrogation but not affecting behavior. It was in behaving animals, It took some time, even from where we could exert control at the level of This was work from led by Josh Jennings, and Tina And what we did was target This is a part of the in human beings, gives rise to a syndrome called you can have serious behavior and in social behavior. This is a structure that, of as well. It's involved in But we were interested in our potential for single-cell Our goal was to see if we and competition of two primary drives, feeding and within this structure. And these cells, as is common are very often observed to but not necessarily known in those behaviors. And so that was a big So what we did was use to give us access deep cortical control over the single cells via calcium imaging of those individual cells. And under this system, identify feeding cells. As this trace progresses that's when a little droplet is delivered. And we can see cells that quite droplet delivery. And so these are, as we These are cells that always-- or almost always-- respond is given. So this is their naturally and this is very useful. They're sprinkled in don't have these properties. And then we can come and leveraging our ability to exert control. And we can do this The non-targeted these are cells that are And this gives you a flavor You can see the non-targeted are active in their own But they're not activated optically, the are right next to them, with them in this structure. So we have single-cell over these cells. And then the question are these cells causally And so here's the result If you-- in this case, driving-- we found if we just drove 20 we could enhance and extend the where each little tick is a Did a number of controls. For example, if you leave you don't get that response. So this is-- that's good It shows that it's not for example. But of course, you might that you're targeting What if you had targeted And what if they were cells involved in And so here, we the socially responsive cells. And we did that Now this is all done in the So you might ask, what, really, And it's maybe as natural social behavior. But in this case, is a conspecific social with another member a juvenile, same-sex around this chamber and where there's an extended And indeed, there are active when this happens. And those are not the You might also ask, maybe or novelty cells. And that was an important thing. When I'm very I might not eat as much. And so that's an important Are these truly social cells, or something else? And so here we and had it pop up in quite a type fashion. I'll play this movie here. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] So the mouse is here, waiting. Oh. [LAUGHTER] And what's amazing is the do not respond at all, even There are other novel It's going to come And other controls that these are related, in some And then the question became-- [END PLAYBACK] --if you drive those Does it increase, or to the feeding response? And what we found, at least was there was, in fact, a response by driving So here, in orbital there is a interaction between primary survival drives. If you drive other non-feeding or you see no effect at all. So it does appear to be at of the feeding cells-- of the social cells in So this was exciting, able to take these and finally do an wanted to do from the was to exert control at the cell level over But of course, to push this to yet One limitation that, like a physical has to be very careful with that one delivers These are powerful using to generate these And if we start wanting to we may, if we're not where we're delivering too in other ways. So we've been working on ways to over broader fields of view, as well, and also and using opsins that need to give rise to still And this has come along Along with device development, spatial light modulators that projected over very large up to a 1-by-1-millimeter can cover most of These look like this. And these now have enabled of experiment. What's shown here are six-- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6-- squares depicting of primary visual cortex in And these six areas because we're going from So this is in three dimensions. And all the red, cells that are, first of and a new opsin that allows light while still that I'll tell you But also, these are cells by us by virtue of their So we're able to individually cells by first identifying to control by presenting and picking out the cells that In this case, the responding, are all cells because they respond of a drifting grading, So with this configuration, of experiments. For example, here are more than a millimeter apart. By setting up our stimulate, simultaneously, are set this far apart, or of individually specified cells And the opsin that we use is one. This is the first one that This is a cation conducting But its primary puts it closer to than to the other by itself, was interesting. We found this in a collaboration and Hideaki Kato. It's from a marine organism. And we called it used a structure-guided and it's a channelrhodopsin. And carmine, I learned is a deep red color, which, You learn a lot And I learned a But it was a name that to be-- although it it's actually Don't say &quot;crime.&quot; It's ChRmine. So what this allowed us to do, it's red-light-activated. But it has extraordinarily more than 5 nanoamps per cell. Very often, of course, And so we can back off is what we ultimately to currents that drive spiking densities. And that lets us in turn control And I'll show you this to control individually look at population dynamics and look at behavior. ChRmine has-- although we don't yet, it's got these very large But also, by think there are some to its likely internal proven. What's interesting is that electrostatic potential toward the inner and not so much in the which may reduce the effective of the-- inside of the channel fluxes while still by affecting the access We are working hard on We don't have that yet. But very large photocurrents, and this allows us to do this where we can have an We present visual stimuli vertical or horizontal We can find all the cells that all the cells respond show that they're selective, over 3D across a visual cortex. We can also identify we call these the to see that it picking out cells that are of a And then we can the cells of one orientation both while imaging thousands looking at the dynamics, the internal if you will, of and also, later, as I'll show What we first found we didn't know if it We didn't know if-- by stimulating a know what would happen Would there be no broad, If one were to stimulate 10, would those be, by and activated? Or would we recruit large And if we recruited many other be? What would be the patterns Would it look like naturalistic, as seeing the vertical Or would it be some-- would it be some other And so to do this, we look It's very high-dimensional but you can reduce this into with a principal And here are the trajectories of cells in visual the animal is looking at Here's one mouse And what we can see is this to visual stimuli. And this is the response of just 20 or so of the same orientation. And what you can see is that the component space resemble during natural visual stimuli. And those are not seen with or no stimulation. And it's not just us huh, those look sort of similar. You can train a classifier and automatically identify were the cells that you on the population So this was reassuring It was nice to see that at this regional level targeted optogenetics resembled by natural stimuli. It also was quite just 20 or so cells-- and these haven't been worked for long periods have gone through plasticity. These are in animals We're just looking at And stimulating can give rise to this broad of neurons among the imaging from in this of visual cortex, which, And in this paper, together an outstanding computational we've begun to explore that cortical circuits seem excitable regime. But of course, we also could affect behavior as well. And so for these sorts of and we train them orientation of the visual And we can make by reducing the contrast, And we can generate We train the animals which, they learn and perform at high levels. You've seen this But even after training, they at 2% contrast. And 10% is fairly can perform all right on that. We found a couple of things. First, by optogenetic of a population of cells with a weak-contrast we could improve the animal's We could help it to detect, what the correct orientation concordant with the orientation But then we even took away the And so in darkness, by stimulating a get the animal to is seeing the visual stimulus? And the answer is it can. And what's more, we could to remarkably low levels. And this is both in terms and in terms of looking dynamics, the classifier and classifying the And you can see number of We can actually drop to just a handful of cells where both the correct behavior response. Looks like layer 5 cells than layer 2, 3 cells to fewer of them to of behavioral response. So this, by itself, is and leads to a lot of about how cortex is set up to or critical dynamics, and to not cause any problems. Now this, of course, Because we were seeing by a few cells, this was and covered most But of course, we would like does properly elicit naturalistic And although we can't the activity all across with optical tools, we with electrical tools. And this is work in the lab, who, as you And he led this used neuropixels probe, are very long-shank, recording devices, placed in different animals. In this experiment, there per animal. But by using a we're able to across many different animals. With known trajectories, We see where the trajectory was, align that to the And we can build up, in this of the populations of cells that And as a first step, the simplest possible which is just an animal And this is, by design, Because we wanted to see, what would be the And starting from the was a good place to start. And in this go, no-go has learned that one will be water coming. Another odor means there There's an onset, an and then an onset of reward, And here's just the behavior. The animals learn to and not for the no-go odor. And this is over many trials, sated and no longer licking, First question is, what Let's see. There we go. First question is what without optogenetics? What is the brain-wide And an interesting finding-- these are all different Here those three dotted lines of the task. Red means more active, and You can see there's recruitment by this very simple task. In fact, more than that we recorded from were by the operation of this task. That was an interesting which has its own can talk about later. But then the question was, what drive, in a properly a deep population And here we targeted the same using IC++, the engineered channelrhodopsin, to implicate a eliciting neurons. And so targeting the subfornical neurons, you can get the sort licking to the go And then when you drive this tiny population you can restore this triggered licking for water. And so then the happening across the And the answer, remarkably, similar to the natural state. All across the brain, tens here's the natural Here's the sated state. And here's this resembling the natural state So this is good news, of optogenetics, that if you elicit naturalistic and across the entire brain. And also, it raises a lot analogous to the ones I What does it mean for the How is it structured to allow to elicit such broad responses? This clearly is a one that probably beautiful when it goes right. And I'll wrap up there. But I will show this by chance, was the showed at the very beginning. I think it's a useful Because all the that we've made in and mammalian behavior, and and circuits across is deeply rooted in botany of studying plants. And so it's a nice for us to keep in mind, and the importance, and the And I'll take a to thank all my amazingly and postdoctoral fellows. I mentioned many of The crystal structure work-- I mentioned the stuff that was led by Yun Kim, a I think I forgot to extremely talented. He might be coming here as well. We'll see. But many other very talented along the way-- the work that he did for identification of on eliciting the visual was led by Jim Marshall, and Sean Kerin in the lab. And all my many collaborators over the years-- first and foremost, but many others as well-- and again, the amazing, talented back at Stanford, Ed, and it's been a wonderful time, a And it's been a pleasure So thank you. [APPLAUSE] Wow. OK, thank you very, very much-- an incredible afternoon I want to thank Bernardo I want to recognize, again, the Foundation. I had forgotten to mention Martin is here, also a member And finally, to on this spectacular thank you very much. And I look forward to seeing [APPLAUSE] [BACKGROUND CONVERSATION]