Hey there. Today, I'm going to show you some be incredibly useful for your work. These top 30 tips and tricks will help I'll cover solutions to the most Excel and helps you work smarter. Not harder. Let's get started. Number one, how do we insert Here, I have a screenshot. It's an image in Excel, but How do we extract the data from Excel without typing it all out? We're going to use the snipping You could be browsing the web You find some data that you First, we're going to take a Windows key, Shift and S. This brings up the Snipping Tool and we want to take a screenshot for. Notice this goes to the Clipboard Next, we go to the Data tab In this dropdown, we want to And that's going to extract Now, sometimes you'll see that you need to So we'll click on insert data. And remember you're responsible for We're fine with that. So we're going to click insert data. And there we go. The data from that screenshot Number two sum values Now, normally if you have data equals SUM parenthesis and selecting sum like so and hitting enter. But there's much faster way, and it produces the sum formula. Another way to do this is to and head down to the status bar. Now you can right click on this show the sum or a different total. Now here's the third way. You can click on the data you have and And click on Table. This is going to create a table. Make sure that the data range is correct. And your table has headers. Get that checked. Click OK. Now let's change the I'll make it just all white. And what you can do here And then click this Total Row. Once that's checked, go down extra row that's been added. And that shows the sum by default, to change it to another total. Number three, toggle filters on and off. So you have some data here and Simply press control shift L and You can click on them and then want to filter by, then click okay. And there it's filtered. Now, if you want to Press control shift and L and Number four, fast filter trick. This is even faster than the previous one. So if you want to filter by cell, then head down to filter, and then You click on that, and voila, all done. Number five. Center text across cells. Now you can select a cell like this, center up here, but that's a general sort, select, or filter very easily. I'll show you why. So if I try to select column B, You'll see can't just select the values in column B. Instead, what we can do is And so you see in this case, the N I can select column B, no problem. How do we do this? I'll select the three cells Then I'll press Control 1 to I click on Alignment. Where it says Horizontal, I on Center Across Selection. When I hit OK, it's going to do the and it means I can select, no problem. Number six, cell message. You can leave a little message If I click on this cell, you'll And then this one has a third message. How do you do this? It's not a note and it's not a comment. Let's try it here. So I'm going to go to the data tab And then in the input message tab, and input message. Here's the message. Then click OK. And there you go. There's your new cell message. Number seven, freeze top row. Here I have some data with If I scroll down, you'll How do I stop that from happening? Well, it's pretty simple. Just head to view and freeze panes Now when I scroll, it will keep There's another way to do this, I can select cell I two and then Again. This is gonna freeze everything So when I scroll down, you'll see the to the right, you still see column H. Number 8. Freeze top row. I have this data here. If I scroll down, you'll see the longer see what's at the top row. I can solve this by using a table. I click on the cell like this, press Ctrl T to create a table. Click OK, and I'll change the Now watch what happens when I are replaced by the data headers. So that's another way Number nine, freeze bottom row. Here I have some data and I scroll see there's a total row here. How do I keep this in view Well it's quite simple. Head to view and then click on split Now I can click up here and then scroll up see the total row stays where it is. Number 10. Print headers on every page. Now headings and data don't If I press Ctrl P for Print Preview, green headers at the top disappear. They only appear on the first page, To get these headers to show, all and then click on Print Titles. And then when we go to the rows to and then click on print preview. We'll see now when I scroll down, the Number 11. Move cells with mouse. Let's say I select these rows. I can move my mouse until it changes to and drag these into a new position. Let go, and there they are. I'll hit undo. Now I can also insert them. So instead of moving, I'll click Then I'll hit and hold shift. So when I hold shift, it changes the Then I can let go, say here, and it will Number 12. Copy cells with the mouse. Let's say I wanted to copy these three I can move the mouse until I hit and hold ctrl and it changes the Now I click and drag and when Number 13. Copy only the visible cells. Let's say we want to copy this So I'll right click and click on Hide. Then I'll select this, press Ctrl You see what happens is that hidden, January, February, March. Instead, we'll go back to this stage, When I select this visible part, I'm Then I'm going to click on Go to Special. And when we're in the Go to click on Visible Cells Only. Now when I press OK, that's It's now going to be only When I Ctrl C to copy and Ctrl V to paste, There's also a keyboard shortcut for And when you press Alt and semicolon, it only selects the visible cells. Number 14. Delete blank records. Let's say we want to just keep those but delete all the blank ones. We'll first apply filters. Remember Ctrl Shift L from tip number 3. Then we select from the drop all and then click on blanks. Now when I press OK, this will Now I can select those rows, like this, when I delete row, it will get rid of I can press Ctrl Shift L to unfilter, records with dietary requirements. Number 15. Fill blank cells. Let's say instead of deleting How do we do this? Well, we first select the cells, dialog box, and click on special. Now, we click on blanks to Then we type the value we want, in and then we hit control and enter. And that fills in the values with N, A. Number 16. Fill numbers to the nth Now if I wanted to fill the numbers from this, but it would take a long time. Instead, we're going to take a shortcut. We'll select that cell with the 1, then We want the series in a column. We're going to step up in steps of Now when we click on OK, there the Number 17. Fill dates to the nth Let's say we want the We'll use the previous So we'll go to fill, click on stop value of 100 for 100 days. Click OK. Then you click on this date, Then move your mouse to the bottom fill handle, and double click it. Now we have the first 100 days filled in. Number 18. Flash Fill Numbers. I've got a column of product codes here. How do I extract the first four digits of Instead of typing them all out, 6198, press Ctrl Enter, and then And look at that. Just like a flash, it's Let's do the same for So I'll type in 7, 8, 6, Control Enter. What's the magic keyboard shortcut? Control E. That flash shows it all the way down and So 9, 5, 1, 9, Control Enter. And what's the magic shortcut? Control E. There you go. Done. Number 19, Flash Fill Letters. We've got a list of names, and so for Robert Williams, RW. What do we do? We use this as a template, r. w. and then we press Ctrl E, and Can Excel handle middle names? Well, let's try it out. Robert James Williams. We put in James in this column. Then we try Ctrl E and yes, it seems Finally, we've got full names. With the middle name, we want So in this case, it would be R for Here's the template. I'm going to press Ctrl E, That's a great result. Number 20. Smart use of clipboard. Everyone knows you can copy and can copy and paste multiple items? To do that, go to the home tab and where arrow to launch the system clipboard. We can reposition this as we copy items and when we copy them, Let's copy a few more. Copy. And this one, CTRL C to copy. Now if we select another And the values are pasted You can also do this with other apps. So, we'll switch to Word. I'm going to copy this text Then click in this cell and click on this. So you see the text from And to clear it, you just have to click on Number 21. Quick bar chart with the Now you don't have to use an Instead, you can do it with So to make this work, I'm going to type in double quote, and then I'll insert a What I want to do is multiply and press F4 to lock that. Now I close parenthesis, hit Now I head up to format this red and then I align it to the right. And there we have the left side. Now we do the same for the right side. Equals R E P T, open parenthesis, comma, the value, which is this 76 And I'll press F4 to freeze it. Close parenthesis, enter. Copy this down. Then change the font to Playbill, change Plus, one little note, to find right of the keyboard, between And you have to press shift to get it. Number 22, McKinsey Lollipop Chart. Now this is a very McKinsey esque chart. It's called a lollipop chart because of When it's been built, you can filter to see the bottom three performers to see the top three performers. So how do we go about building this? So to start, we need these three line in the middle, and the end element. To get this half rectangle, I found this source https colon slash So I copied and pasted Then the line I got by pressing Windows and then going to the Symbols and finding punctuation marks and other symbols. And the same for this circle, Then the next step is to combine We're going to type in equals, the start and I write ampersand to connect it with then we'll have the line character the number of times we'll do it is, scaling factor here, 800, just to fit I'm also going to lock that Then I'll close the parenthesis, and I'll element in L7, and lock that with F4. Hit enter, and you can I can copy this all the way down, press Now I want to change this so it's grey. I select the text colour And we're halfway there. Now we've got to add top We need to rank the values, Type in equals, rank, open parenthesis, we'll rank it across all of these to lock the range, and then order So we'll type in zero, and then double click that to fill down. That gives us the rank. Now we need to apply conditional the top three and bottom three. So first select this range, go to And what we want to do is First formula will be if G5 is less format we'll select to be color blue. Click OK and click OK to that. So you see that's now We'll do something Highlight the range, click on Conditional Click on user formula to determine This formula equals G five. Creator, then parentis max, G 37 minus three. close parenthesis. So this will determine the highest So if our value is greater than that So we'll choose red here And now you see we've got the conditional We can check that by pressing. Control Shift L, and sorting and largest to smallest. Number 23. Display file path and workbook name. To include the full file path in your Equals, cell, open parenthesis, double click on file name, comma, A1, close see it's produced the full file path the workbook name and then after the Now you can also include just the with a simple formula which is equals before, open parenthesis, cell, Open name, close parenthesis, comma, double quotes, close parenthesis, comma, double quotes, close parenthesis. Enter. And that provides you You can also do this in older to take too long for me to explain shout out to Dave Bruns of ExcelJet. His excellent formula tutorials So you can go to ExcelJet. net forward slash formulas, forward Thanks Dave. Number 24. Hide cell contents from view. Now you can hide cell contents by background like this, but if you've got it doesn't work quite so easily. Instead, what you can do is select hide, then press Ctrl 1 for the Format click Once on Custom, And then change replace it with three semicolons, When you click OK, you And the reason this works is because one is positive numbers, separated by a semicolon, number three is zero numbers, So when you just use three want to show anything for positive, for zero, or anything for text. And that's why three Number 25. Center text across cells. So in tip 5, we saw that we could let's say, these three cells, pressing dialog box, and then selecting, center That's quite a few steps to do. So instead, if you're having to do a single click with some VBA code. So on the right here, I have We create a subroutine, sub center And then we have these three lines in alignment, Excel Center Across So I'm going to pop that into See, this is the subroutine here Click here to customize Click on more commands. Then I'll select macros. Center Across Selection. I'll click on Add. Then I'll modify it. Change the name to Center Across Selection. And I'll use this arrow as a symbol. Click OK. You see it's added this arrow which It will run this macro So as a test, I can And then click this arrow, and you see Number 26, remove cell formats. So if you have to do a lot of cell of cell formats quickly, you could on clear and then clear formats. And that will do it. But if you do this a lot, you to the quick access toolbar, just So to remove formatting, all we need We're going to call it sub remove clearformats, endwith, endsub. And that's all you need. So I'm going to put it into my accessible anywhere I use Excel. And you see this is the So we'll head back into Excel, the quick access toolbar. Click on more commands, choose down to find Remove Formatting. I'll add that. Then I'll modify this. I'll change the name to Remove Formatting. And I'll select this eraser Now we have a new button on I can now remove formatting by . Filter function, single criteria. Here's a table of sales figures. What happens if we want to extract We can use the filter So type in equals filter, open then what we want to include is This value, east. And when we close the parenthesis and hit all the values down to the last one. You can see this if we change to south, and only includes as many cells as Number 28. Filter function for multiple criteria. So we have the same sales figures to be able to specify two criteria. First we'll have a look at this region and David as the rep. So we'll use the same function as specify the array, like so, comma, then region column equals this value East, going to multiply by another criteria. Open parenthesis, and choose the value here, David, we'll close So that shows all the records where the We could also do this with OR. So where the region is East And to do that, we'll use choose the array and then comma. The first criteria is open That equals the value here, And now, to use OR, we'll add, open equals this name here, Chris, close Now that returns us all the records where Number 29. Create new sheets from values So we've got a list of sheet sheet for each name on the list. This is a three step process. First is to insert a pivot table. Second is to create a filter And the third is to show After that we have to do some cleanup. So let me show you how this all works. So I've copied sheet I click on Insert, click on PivotTables, Then inside the PivotTable to Filters and head back up to We're going to go to the Options, and the second one, we'll click Then we'll click on OK. And that generates one sheet We've got to do some cleanup. So I'm going to hit shift and select these sheets from Sunday to Saturday. I need to delete this in columns So I'll press delete and I'll Now I'll select A1. And what that's done is. cleaned up Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, I can get rid of sheet 2, delete Sunday to be after Saturday, like Now that is quite a lot of hassle it's a good trick if you've got But if you do this regularly, 30, which does this much faster. Number 30. Create new sheets from Let's say we want to create a new So I've got this list going We'll use a bit of VBA code So I'll briefly explain sub for sub underscore from underscore selection. We're first going to declare these happens here, when we loop through create a new sheet and rename it. So for each c, in this case cell, in WKSNAME, worksheet name, to be Trim c. txt. So the text that's inside the cell that Now, if the length of WKS name we do is we add worksheet. We do it after worksheets. count, which is the total number So this just adds a new worksheet Then active sheet. name, We've just added that sheet, we'll change the name to be And we do that for every cell in the And now all you have to do is put this So here it is, I've copied the I'll give you a copy of the text in you can copy and paste it yourself But I recommend you add it to a module so that you can use it whenever Next we're going to have a I've copied this into a new workbook, And if I select all that, Ctrl A, editor, and then run this macro So it's going to do some work, each of the names in the list. And I can verify that by right clicking have all the worksheets done in order. So that's much faster than All you need to do is create can reuse it anytime you want. Get your complete copy of all 30 And do you want to know It will save you time and make Check out my next video on how to all your sheets to a clickable table