- Today we're gonna talk One of coffee technology's Nestle was able to build a turning espresso into a microwave meal. It was more convenient, but it was much more expensive, and you could probably make something better yourself, from scratch, But many people love and they were suddenly everywhere. But in 2014, Nespresso lost and then suddenly, anyone in an Nespresso compatible capsule. And that should level the playing field. I mean, sure, not every can afford a George to buy and roast a much than what Nespresso were But it wasn't a level playing field. There's more technology in these things that no one really talks about and I want to get into it today because we can learn from it and it's just super interesting. We'll break this down into three parts. Firstly, we'll talk then we're gonna talk that does things that And then finally, we're gonna and apply from these refillable Nespresso pods or just think about our So for comparison, this is a You know, it looks very similar. You would use them in a This is a classic of the genre. This is the Magimix Inissia. I think they must have made probably millions of these things. They're cheap, they're everywhere. I find them in hotels, They're very cheap to make. You put water in the back, you turn'em on, you load a capsule, you push your button, you get coffee about 30 seconds later, from it being cold and off. So incredibly quick to use, but there's aspects to this that I think are really interesting. Before we get into it, we should look just quickly Now you'll see that these are They are a similar shape. They both have a foil If you look really closely though, you'll see one very small and that's here underneath On the Nespresso capsule you can see a kind of silicon gasket there. You can't see that gasket Why would that matter? Well, Nespresso still have the patent on this little gasket piece here, and that turns out to be quite necessary to have a good experience out there on the market. Now if we open this thing That's what this is. I've took a broken one of so we can understand a bit Now, when you lift the handle, move it backwards and forwards, you're moving this piece around inside. But if I take this piece off, things start to make more sense. When you load a capsule into this machine, it drops down and then And as you push it back like that, the machine pierces the three little holes in That's where it's gonna Now, in order to have a good seal, this capsule here must fit very snugly against this piece here. Otherwise, water could leak from around the sides of the capsules. Now this is an issue for independent pods 'cause they don't have And then to make life even well the bid that they sit is not a smooth piece. It's actually got little tiny ridges almost as if it's designed to leak if there isn't a silicon capsule there. Not saying that it is, I'm just saying it's an interesting choice to make it a kind of This would give a strong to a Nespresso capsule because lots of independent and a leaky pod, well that's That doesn't encourage you to go back and buy the same It encourages you to stick with Nespresso and keep using those over and over again. Now the rest of the is really incredibly simple. You can sort of see what's This is at the base of your water tank and water's gonna get drawn in here through a little flow meter. This piece here is your pump. It's your vibration pump There's a little board on the back and then the last piece of tech really is this little water boiler. And the real win for is the fact that this thing and that the actual well, it doesn't matter that much. With really high quality, specialty coffee you want a pretty narrow If your coffee is much darker in roast, having it be 80, 85, 90 Celsius isn't gonna massively You're not gonna get really or anything like that. You're gonna have a a for a massive variable in your brew temp. The upside for the user of thinking about wanting an espresso, they have one in their cup. And that is a kind of magical experience. Going back here, if you look you can see the little prongs So water gets pumped in there. And then the other part of the capsule sits against this thing here, Now this is important. It's common to all independent but the water will pump into But this foil initially will be sealed. So there'll be a period until the pressure builds so much that the foil is pressed against the kind of waffley material, it breaks and espresso And there's nothing There's just a a hole to a little spout that will then drip outta the front here. So there's no kind of or anything like that. They're really very simple. Now, in response to this issue with the sealing of the capsules, well, independent businesses They started to make their own kind of independent Nespresso machines that didn't have the same issue. If you open up this machine and you can look and feel there's actually a sort of silicon gasket that the capsule sits against so that it isn't going to leak. That is very clever, it's very simple, but that's why there's suddenly this push for independent, non Nespresso branded, Nespresso compatible machines. This one's a little bit slower to use in terms of getting hot, which because I'd rather have and higher temperatures of kind of fixing a weird problem that most people didn't know existed. But it isn't the only tech Let's open one up. As we look into the bottom of these little Nespresso capsules, we'll see one fundamental difference. You'll see in the bottom of it looks like there's a and stuck to something. That is basically a little piece of paper that isn't present in this. You'll have seen people using on espresso makers or even on top of their espresso puck more evenly across the coffee. That's basically one more little patent that Nespresso have that no one else does. That means they can do a better job of distributing the water With this capsule, the water will come in at those three points and of pressurized water through the coffee. Here, that paper will buffer help the evenness of the extraction and it will help make We should get into brewing some coffee because that's where things and kind of counterintuitive and shocking to my little brain. I'll start with this. It's the little festive edition Nespresso have out right now. I do enjoy the truthfulness It has one, it's not cereal, surprisingly, it's woody, which for the is a straight up sort of defect word when coffee, raw coffee gets very old, it tends to taste a bit woody. So that's a weird thing to promise, but I'm sure they'll deliver. The thing I want you to pay attention to is how quickly it brews. (machine whirring) (machine beeping) So fast, so quick. Let's put in an independent capsule from a specialty roaster (machine whirring) (machine beeping) So let's talk grind size. This fast brewing shot, you would think, okay, it's a darker roast, it'll extract pretty well but reasonably extracted shot. Specialty coffee needs a finer grind. It's gonna be a lighter roast. We've gotta grind it much finer and that's why this shot is slower. Turns out you're dead wrong. Completely wrong, shockingly wrong. Now we now have a fancy here in the studio so we can actually look at the particle size inside capsules. And what I found was astonishing to me. This capsule is ground notably On average, I think between one and 200 microns finer. This is close to a kind This is actually quite a bit coarser. In some cases, people might be because if they don't have a good seal, the more pressure that gets the more likely it is to leak. But ultimately, if you go with most grinding tech, that doesn't choke. You know, it would take at a grind setting like this because no one has the same That's kind of it. That's Now we can look in the and try and see differences in shape and you might look at Ooh, the Nespresso pod has more fines. It's not only finer in grind, How is that happening? But if you dive a little deeper, you'll see that it has less which are really fine, fines. And so that seems to be really key in the way that these And to be honest, I still and I look at the way that they brew and my brain can't quite This is so much coarser It would feel coarser, look but it brews so much slower. Nestle's grinding tech is the best in the world, potentially. They're able to do a combination of shape, size, distribution, to have this thing brew incredibly fast but also brew with a good extraction. Now I spoke to one roaster who said, okay, but this is just a and you just, you know, lighter roasts in there and make it work. This is a light roast challenge. They're always gonna brew slower. But then Nespresso just Look at that fanciness. So very fancy. Oh look, this even get the There's nothing they can't steal from us. Inside here are five pods. 'cause it's just, you just want five because they're two pounds 15 each. If you wanna back solve that, the coffee in here costs roast that's what, just under $500 Anyway, this was interesting because we analyzed the Something else we can do here. We can look at roast color on something like an Agtron scale. And while most Nespresso is this was within one Agtron And yet they were It's just their tech is just better. It's just they're better than anyone else, putting and that feels unfair but it is the truth. We should have a little Now that is a little bit slower but it's still pretty quick Let's have a little taste. First up, Woody Winter. You know, yeah, it's woody. It's just not that much of Let's try an independent specialty pod. Flavor, sweetness, texture, Clearly you can taste raw material in there. Let's compare it to the very Hmm, it's sort of a halfway house. It's not as good as this, but it's better than Independent roasters are in the format when it comes not even close. Now from all that we've learned, I'm interested in what we can apply to things like reusable Those are really popular and I think there are kind of patch across in our understanding So let's talk about how we to the world of reusable Now, I did two things to prepare for this. Firstly, get my grind right. I use the particle size to the Nespresso sort of particle size. Granted, I have a very a Weber EG-1 but I wanted to and as you'll see, as between the two, it's pretty I don't have the fancy that Nespresso do. I've got a fancy flat burr And then I bought three different kinds of reusable capsules. I'll walk you through them. Firstly, there's these ones here. It's a metal bodied sort of capsule. It does come with a bunch of these little silicon gaskets for the back here. These fall off sometimes, and I assume you lose them so These, when you seal them, you do so with a little kind of sticker foil lid. Then you've got the which is just a kind of plastic capsule. It has a little mesh piece and you'd brew it like that. And then thirdly, these ones were metal It's a kind of a sort And then kind of a little And that came quite bizarrely, a surprisingly heavy tamper. Anyway, let's brew them Now when it comes to one, it's quite hard to both stick and potentially peel off afterwards. I've had some issues with that. And two, it's not a reusable piece. These are a consumable. This is one and done. So good news for the manufacturer, less good news for you who's or you know, non reusable things. Anyway, we've got a seal on it now and that, I think is important. Let's listen carefully as it brews. (machine whirring) Now you may not have but you can actually hear the sound of the foil breaking from That means that this capsule does have a kind of pre-infusion moment unlike potentially, the other capsules that don't have a sealed end. So there's no opportunity Will that be an advantage? Obviously the downside of these things is I will later need to dirty capsule from the and that's annoying but So let's try this one. (machine whirring) (machine beeping) Let's go with our metal top and bottom. And the instructions are not they say fill the capsule and gently tamp. It doesn't even fit. That's another annoyance. I dunno why you'd make it so small. (machine whirring) (machine beeping) This had the kind of finest filter on the exit from the capsule, which might be a bit of a sort in a funny sort of way 'cause than I might have anticipated. But let's start at the beginning. Give them a taste. To the foil lid. Your brain assumes it'll but the ratio of an espresso pod is such that your five, six grams of coffee are brewed with 25, 30 grams of water. That's a really long longo style ratio and so, it is well extracted, I wouldn't say it's as good as the independent Nespresso pod. Let's try the cheapest option. Now that is under extracted still, that tastes very channely I could imagine with a very dark roast, you'd maybe get away with definitely doesn't work for me. Let's try our little tamped friend here. It's better than this but It's okay, it's a little sour. It doesn't taste as evenly It's an interesting world out there. And if you think about none of them have the advantage of that bit of paper at the start evening out the flow of Could you put that in yourself? I'm not sure you should, but you could. But that foil seal, I think when it comes to better brewing. And I think that's a real place that most of the independent sort of reusable pods fall down. And I think for most people considering reusable Nespresso pods at home, they definitely won't have a grinder as capable as this one and I think you're really gonna Don't take this as a kind I am fascinated and interested by the technologies that they have. I don't really understand the way that they are, but But when it comes to drinking coffee, I want people to support local roasters, buy incredible coffees, easily and inexpensively I think espresso is a but it's also a little bit of a hobby that has, you know, a bit You've gotta spend the and have the time. There are other ways to make coffee that are incredibly and yield you very delicious drinks and that's kind of what But now I wanna hear from you I wanna hear from you if you and you had any joy in are there any tips or tricks and the rest of the audience? And then if you just about the technology inside there, well, was that interesting? Is there some other patent that Is there other tech that we've missed that we should look at in the future? I'd love to hear from you But for now I will say thank