The Russian Revolution of the first communist and was the work of Vladimir or, at least, that's the story But in truth, that's an of the events that took in Russia. So today, we're at some fascinating about the Russian Revolution. But before we get started, to the Weird History channel. After that, leave us know what other revolutions OK, you say you Well, here we go. [MUSIC PLAYING] Technically, the was actually three events. There was an set the stage for that occurred in 1917. The Revolution of 1905, also Revolution, was the result among the peasantry directed against the tsarist The 1905 Revolution like the Bloody Sunday is not the same Bloody Apparently, Sunday is just a On this Bloody Sunday, were left injured and slain a demonstration by factory In response to the issued the October Manifesto, established representative to the development But the Duma failed to get and the additional strain of upheaval in the country. By February of broke out in Petrograd with protesting and rioting. As a result, Tsar Nicholas of the line of succession, as the next ruler. Michael ultimately refused probably a smart move-- and the was established. But this governing body Never able to stabilize or the Russian kept Russia in World fairly hands off, which and violence. It was against this launched a coup and established a or it might have been November Yeah, about that. [MUSIC PLAYING] The events of 1917 and how are a bit muddied by the fact adopt the Gregorian The calendar, named was slightly shorter In 1917, Russia still even though it had been by much of the Western world. According to the the uprisings in on February 23, October But on the Gregorian were March 17, November When Russia finally switched to it eliminated 13 days which now makes it to identify the dates of And you thought daylight savings During the Russian Civil sent roughly 5,000 to fight at the request of in the region. The group landed in Arkhangelsk, as World War One was Largely comprising men from shout out to the Midwest-- the army expedition with keeping weapons out of as well as assisting a group of in Russia. Through the winter the Polar Bears, as focused their efforts on throughout the province below -50 degrees Fahrenheit. Amid the cold, American forces to the point of being unusable. According to Harry J. Costello-- the problem was eventually gunner who suggested putting wrapping the gun in and changing the water was near. This method didn't work On fronts where it was next the water-cooled machine It's a shame there weren't any Born in what is now studied law in Germany and went During the Bolshevik Revolution, or Bolshevik secret police-- for counterrevolutionary crimes. After being taken into received a death sentence in pre-Bolshevik Russia. On his execution in front of a firing squad asked what his name was. Upon hearing the man's realized Bernstein but he was also one of players in Russia. It sounds like a twist but the commanding to a chess match. If Bernstein won, he If he lost-- well, you know. Bernstein accepted He was spared, freed, and where he presumably all of the time. By late 1917, the provisional was failing. The Winter Palace and of government, which of militant Bolsheviks. The head of the Russian Alexander Kerensky, naturally, Reportedly, 137 members of the which kind of sounds stood alongside Cossack and the Bolsheviks, but According to David Soskice's the palace was from top to bottom by as though by a Among the palace's target areas When bottles were smashed were thrown into holes crazed people dove Reports also surfaced tried to pump wine but crowds gathered to Hey, it was a good vintage. Still another reporter recalled but it was actually by soldiers who lay not dead but merely drunk. It was not common to change their names, but Stalin gave their personal They were nothing In 1901, Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov in exile. The pseudonym was to But why did he choose After all, Beatlemania was still Observers, including Lenin's theorize it may have been in Other possibilities an homage to a character in Or it may have belonged to simply usurped, sort The man the world knows as Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili. In 1912, however, to a Russian word means &quot;Man of Steel&quot;. This was 26 years before Action the original Man of Steel. Historian Vilyam Pokhlebkin was driven by the fact that devoid of all artistic pretense, and-- most importantly-- Also, Stalin sounds cool. You cannot underestimate the name. Speaking of names, when the practice of to unite the populace through One way this manifested was by the changing culture-- names like Elektrifikatsiya, meaning Red Army, and Ninel-- which is Lenin spelled Other October names derived from the words Marx, Revolution and of Communist International. At least Khaleesi More Game of Thrones references. Will it ever die? And it wasn't just personal St. Petersburg was because it sounded too changed to Leningrad in 1924 However in 1991, passed, changing the name of [MUSIC PLAYING] The war between Vladimir was composed of members elite troops in imperial from the Imperial Army. The Red Army seemed to be at sent to Russia by the US, Japan, around the world. However, conscription, mobilization allowed to grow the Red Army's ranks too overwhelming, it Desertion, a lack of resulted in Lenin memo that suggested it is 1,000 no more than a million Red clothed, and shod million half-starved, And while we a Bolshevik army of shirtless in one boot would have [MUSIC PLAYING] After Tsar Nicholas II he, his wife Alexandra, were kept in confinement in the URL Mountains. In July of 1918, when it looked to rescue the Romanovs, the In addition to Nicholas numerous members of the were done away with. According to Time were taken to an abandoned Hand grenades were then to eliminate any uncertainty. Damn. How would you even Execution by action movie? [MUSIC PLAYING] Lenin was exiled in Siberia for three years. Once that period ended, where he published a pamphlet country entitled, He would not be the the equivalent of an after being thrown Lenin returned to By that time, the Russian and the promises made by Tsar had come to fruition. Russia had a was a National Parliament. And so Lenin was once In April of 1917, Lenin With dozens of other exiles, through Germany then From there, the and boarded another The landscape proved to and his fellow revolutionaries. They had to use to cross a frozen river into and Lenin took a train Keeping Lenin out of like trying to ban Garfield They do have similar whiskers. So what do you think? Which of these facts Let us in the comments below. And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.