- Hey guys it's Karina. - It's Ronald from - [Together] Sis versus Bro. - And today we're doing the Don't Press the Wrong Button Slime [Together] Challenge. - So right here we have four buttons. Two of them good and two - Ahh. - If your button makes a magical noise then you get to pick something from the good slime pile. But if no noise then you from the not so good slime pile. - Dun dah da! - And I'm not so excited to pick from that (mumbles) pile 'cause - I will mix. (giggling) - Okay, we have ten rounds 'cause after that you're I have good hopes about - And at the end of the video you guys get to comment down below, who is the winner of this challenge. (crickets chirping) Wait, comments are disabled. So go to our Instagram and There'll be a link down below. Go, or else. (toy squeaking) - Okay and now it's time who goes first. - [Together] Rock, paper, scissors, shoot! - Shoot! - How come you always win? - Oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah! All right guys, now it's Okay, I don't know which one to press. I'm scared! Okay, I'll go with this one. (click) No! - So guys, I have to pick something from here, the not so good pile and I don't know what to put. Maybe, oh maybe rainbow fish beads. Sure, yeah, I'll put rainbow fish beads. No! Should I? I'm scared! Okay, yeah, I'll put rainbow fish beads. (beads clinking) Yay! - Okay guys, it's now my turn. So Ronald pressed this button and it didn't make a noise. So I'm not gonna press that and I think I'm gonna (clicking) (ding) - No! - Oh yeah, all right! I get to pick something from here. So guys, if you don't know me, then you probably don't but the fact is I love clear glue. So I'm gonna pick the pink glitter glue 'cause I love pink and I love clear glue. So let's put them together and make something awesome. All right Squeeze! Oh, look at that! Okay guys, round number two. I'm gonna go first and I think I wanna press the one that is right in front of me. Please! (buzzer buzzing) Oh No! - Yes! Wait. (clicking) Okay, it doesn't make a noise. - Okay. Okay guys I have to pick something from the bad slime pile. (dramatic trombone note) - [Ronald] Dun, dun, dun! - [Karina] I think I wanna because it's yellow and it's glitter so it's not that bad. Hopefully. All right so let's put some in. You know what, that's enough. (scratching record) Just a litter shimmer, - No, no, no, no, no, You can't do that. - Fine I'll add a little more. Oh no! - [Ronald] Yes! - That's a lot of yellow glitter. - All right guys, now it's time for my very turn. I'm not gonna go with the same that Karina picked 'cause that's cheating. So I'm gonna go with something else. (clicks) Yes! How do you feel? How do you feel? Oh yeah, oh yeah! Guys it's time for my first experience with the good pile. Okay, what should I go for? Green, blue, pink? Karina's like, oh no don't pick pink. (both giggling) Glue. - Oh, not that one! - Oh yes, this one! (laughs) - Not the clear glue. - Oh yes the clear glue. Three, two, one, drop it. Dun da dah dun da dah dun da da da. Oh we're going in. Oo, this looks awesome! So guys so far I'm doing really Gucci. And let's move on to round number three. All right which button shall I press? (clicks) (ding) Yay, I got a good one! So guys I'm doing really So now let's pick something. How jealous are you Karina? Tell me. Karina? - No, no, no, not that, not that! Anything but that! - Okay, Oh, that looks awesome! Oh Karina, you're missing out! - Okay guys it's my turn and you are not allowed that the other person pressed. So I'm not allowed to press that. So I think I'm gonna press this one. (clicks) - Yes! Karina how do you feel? Yes! Karina how do you feel? Yes! Oh yes, oh yes! - Guys, I got a bad button again and Ronald has two of my (evil laughter) This is so unfair. Guys I don't know what to choose 'cause everything is just so bad. So I think I'm gonna go with this. Not as bad as everything, so I think it's all right. (beads dropping) What if I pour that much and not the rest? - Pour the rest. - Fine. There you go. - [Ronald] That barely made (laughs) - Okay it's time for round number four and I'm gonna go first. All right I think I'm gonna go with the one that was next to the one that was before right, okay. (clicks) It's bad! Oh I'm always getting the bad ingredients! It's gonna be a hard choice. I think I'm going to go with this. - Karina, you're going to take all of the bad ones eventually. - All right, okay I think this won't ruin my slime too much so I'll go with this. All right I'll just pour it in. - [Ronald] All of it. - Huh, it's gonna look (Ronald giggling) - [Ronald] And then you add red. (giggle) - Oh no. All right, that's the Are you happy? - Yes It's my turn, so yes, I bet you, I bet you that Okay, which one? This one, the same one! I'm gonna go lucky (mumbles) mode, okay? (click) (ding) Guys, luck is on my side today. I just got two goods and I'm just about to get a third one. Okay, which one shall I pick? - [Karina] No, no, no, no, not that one! - Clear glue! - The last clear glue Ronald. (evil laughing) Why do you have to do this to me? (Ronald howling) - Guys, it's round number five, the buttons are switched. Let's do this. So, I'm pretty sure I'm Okay, can it be good three times in a row? This one button. (clicks) No! You finally got something bad! Yay! Guys, my slime is so perfect and now I have to ruin it with the bad pile. Duh, dun, dun. Oh, what do I pick? Uh, this, nah. Nope. No. Nah. No. Nope. Maybe, probably not. This, I don't know. Oh, I just have to go with this 'cause it kinda sticks with my theme. - [Karina] Hm, no it doesn't. - Oh my gosh guys, no! I had to pick from the bad pile and look what I got in return. - So guys,it's my turn. Ronald finally got something bad, so I can pick something good. So I'm gonna pick the one (clicks) - No! Guys, this is my first good button in a really long time and so I better make this good. All right 'cause I might Okay so, I think I'm gonna go with purple 'cause it's kinda cover 'cause it's kinda dark. So, I think I'm gonna go with this. Oh, that was unintentional. Three, two, one. Oh, that was perfect. Okay guys, it's round number six and now I'm going first. I'm really nervous 'cause I don't know what's right and what's wrong and I'm really confused. - Okay. - All right I think I'm No this one 'cause this (clicks) (ding) Yay! - So guys, for my round number six, I gotta pick something pink. So I'm wanna go with this pink glue. I think it looks pretty - Squeeze! - Okay guys, it is time for actionez and I have to pick a good one. (click) (ding) Yes! - How did you get it? - Simply and carefully. So guys my slime is but I think we can make some touches to it to make it better. Okay what should we add? Classic glitter glue, maybe, maybe not. You will never ever know. Oo, blue fish balls. Oo, la, la, I should probably do that. Dun, nu, nu, nah yes! Now it's time for round number six, I'm pretty sure it's my Okay which one should I go for? - I don't know, I think you - No, I don't think so. I'm gonna go with this one. (clicks) (ding) Okay, which one should I choose? Maybe the glitter glue. - [Karina] Yeah, glitter. - [Ronald] Karina's just that one so you don't get any others. Okay, what other ones are there? - [Karina] Maybe you should pick this one. (both laughing) - Maybe, I don't know. I think I'll go with this one. - Okay, good. - Karina's like okay, yes! (Ronald howling) (Ronald grunting) - Okay guys, now it is my turn and I think I'm gonna press this button. - Why? - I don't know, it just feels right. - Okay. (clicks) - No! I'm getting something bad again! - I think you're running out of things to choose from the bad pile. - Okay, I think I'm gonna with the red glitter. I already got some green glitter, I'm gonna add some red glitter because Christmas is the way to go. - [Ronald] Oh yeah! - [Karina] Ohhhhh! - Sprinkle that everywhere! - Okay guys, it's round number seven and I'm goin first. - Ahh. - I don't know what to pick 'cause I'm really nervous. - Okay, which one? (laughing) (mumbles) Focusing. - This one, there's a button that betrayed me before but I think it's gonna be good now. Please. (clicks) No! - Guys the button betrayed me again! I have to go back to the bad pile. - Get the orbeez. - No, not orbeez, no. Oh no! - [Ronald] Christmas style. - Okay fine Christmas I can't do it. Too much Christmas! I think I'm gonna go with It kinda doesn't look good. It kinda looks like a cheap but you know what, we'll roll with it. Squeeze. - [Ronald] Squeeze dem Squeeze. - Oh that doesn't look very good. Guys, I honestly don't think I can squeeze any more out of it. (record scratching) - There's loads in here but 'cause the glue is so hard. - It's my turn and I am Okay, sense, sense, sense, sense. This one. (clicks) (ding) - No! - Guys, I think I'm I'm running out of things to choose from, from the good pile. I don't know, maybe I can get, - No, not that one. - This one because Karina wants it. - No! (celebratory whooping) Yeah I don't think Hola amigos, it's round number eight. The buttons have been It is my turn, so I am gonna sense and see which button is good, okay. This one, this one, this one, or this one? This one. I have a feeling that it's this one. (clicks) (ding) - You always get the good ones. It's so unfair! All right guys, I need to choose from the good pile again, so what should I get? Should I get a glitter this time? So we have pink glitter, - [Karina] No Ronald, you - Purple glitter, or orange glitter. I'm going for purple glitter. - Are you sure you - No I'm good. Dun, nah, nah, duh, nah, nah, nah, nah, - Okay guys, now it's my turn, I'm really nervous 'cause Ronald just got something and I don't know what to press. Okay, okay. I think I'm gonna go for, I'm not gonna press this one because this button always betrays me. So I'm going to go with this one. (clicks) (Ronald laughing) - Wait, wait, wait Karina should - Okay - It wasn't! - It wasn't I knew it! - It's that one, oh no! Guys, the only okay color that And I don't wanna go 'cause then it's just Okay, I think I'm going - What? - I mean it's okay. All right let's add it in. Oh, this one's a lot Okay guys, now it's round number nine and I'm going first. Don't forget I'm really nervous. I don't know what to pick, okay. I'm gonna go with The Devil Button. All right, it's a new All right, three, two, one. (clicks) No! - That button should be 'cause I'm always getting but now I have to pick something (sighing) I think I'm gonna go for yellow 'cause yellow seems happy. Sunshine yay, but when it goes in here, it's just gonna turn into poop. All right, oh yes. (grunting) (grunting) - Yay! - Good for you, all right, that's it. - Guys, now it's my turn. I'm pretty sure that I'm Okay, it's time for the Oo, pretty strong, pretty strong. Not really. Uh, I don't know. Maybe. This one. (clicks) (ding) - No! Ron, I think you're hacking the system. - Oh yeah. - Definitely, hacking. Guys, this is so unfair. I think Ronald should be disqualified. (laughing) - And now it'll be all you. - [Ronald] There's purple, there's pink. - [Karina] I think this for your slime. It'll fit perfectly well - That's last on my list to pick. I'm going for the purple, Dun, duh, da, dun, nah, dun. (grunting) Alrighty amigos it is because it is round number 10. Hopefully I can get a Alrighty, it is my turn so I'm gonna do the picking ceremony, sensing ceremony. - I think you should pick this one. - Okay, I'll go with that. (clicks) (ding) (laughs) - Wait, that supposed (laughing) (ding) - Thanks Karina because on round number 10. - That shouldn't count. (laughing) - Yeah. (laughing) - Ronald just getting (grunting) - Alrighty, we're doing decent things. - Okay guys, it's my last go, the very last go of them all. And I have to get something So I'm not gonna get this one, 'cause well I'm not allowed to. So, I'm gonna get the one right next to it in the middle because I don't know, they seem to be besties, seem to be good. So I'm gonna be pressing it. (clicks) (laughs) (clicks) No! - Wait, which one was it? (clicks) It was this one. (laughs) Oh my goodness! (clicks) - Ron, I think you've hacked the buttons. - (laughs) Yes, I hacked the buttons. - Okay guys the last thing I've got was something bad so I have, there's no way I'm picking orbeez! I don't wanna go with that. - Everything. Everything. I think this one 'cause this seems like - Christmas (laughs). - All right, let's just add it in I guess. All right, squeeze. That's pretty smooth. So that was the very last glue of the day. And now it's time to mix. - Uh! We still need some activator. - All right, let's add the activator. All right, I think I'm as the base and I'll add - Okay, I'll add like that for base and then I'll add a lot more after. - Okay guys, I'm gonna mix first. Let's do it. Three, two, one, go! Oh yeah! All right, maybe not oh yeah. (Ronald laughing) Oh no, this is real ugly. I think this gonna be all brown because green and red makes brown! Why didn't I think about this when I was going for Christmas colors? - Okay Karina while you're I'm gonna come over in Alrighty, let's grab this spoon, let's grab my hands and let's do this. Dun, nah, na, na Oh wow, nice start, not Oo, nice, nice looking, nice looking. Blue, purple and wait, what did I add? Blue, purple, and pink and yeah, pink makes a good slime. - Guys, mine is looking real ugly. I think it's gonna be brown. Oh no. So guys we're gonna keep on mixing it. We're gonna see ya guys in - [Together] Three, two, one (claps). - So guys our slimes are finally finished and as expected mine is brown. It's a poopy color I don't even like it but that's not really a surprise 'cause I had really bad luck. It's a mixture of brown and gray and to make it even worse, there's red and green glitter in it. All over and a lot of it. I also have some rainbow foam balls which is okay, but doesn't The slime is kinda So if you think my slime is the winner, comment down below. #WinningWithoutLuck 'cause I had no luck today. - All right guys you already Welcome to the magical land Shall we enter? We have a nice purple-bluish inside, you can see. And then some green It's kinda stretchy it's gonna break. So you can just go a nice stretch. It's also really pokey, Hiya! Hiya! It's really nice to poke. I really like it. It's also purple and with the pink glitters as well. So if you think I am the ultimate winner, comment down below. #Ronald'sMagicalLand. I think I beat Karina I think I wrecked her this time. Just look at my slime - Mine is beautiful in it's own way. (laughing) - But guys, since our comments for some reason, go to our Instagram, link down in the description, and comment down below on our links post that I have won. (record scratching) - Karina, look at your slime! - Yeah, it's beautiful. - Oh my God. - We hope you liked the video, - [Together] if you did, and we'll see you all next time. Good Bye! (upbeat music)