Welcome everybody. head of climate, health and sustainability at NIHR. for this introductory collaborative pre-launch care system. Our upcoming funding opportunity, So thank you so much for giving us your before we start the main presentations everybody a chance to join because I know we've and to mention a couple of housekeeping So we have a lot of people online today. So in some ways it's quite ambitious to include from the agenda we do have a bit later of your peers about your emerging ideas, but But what that means is for the first part that we're going to be sharing with you, we're just because there are so many of us. sessions a bit later on, you'll be able We haven't included time after each individual we're going to have a question And we ask you please, as questions in the teams app and my colleague some of those questions at the end of the session So I think we've got most people have been on to the main part of the agenda. the funding opportunity to you. introductory pre-launch workshops that we've September. I don't think we've got anyone online Which is good because today's online So exactly the same as those people who I will then pass on to Doctor Fanny Burrows, who's research needs via the Greener NHS programme At 10:35, we'll be joined And he will share an inspiring case study of to think about how your research can inform real Cliff then takes the floor again with at 10:55 to give you some tips from research, Services on preparing your application. So that we floor will be over to And you'll be joining breakout rooms with people kindly share those interest areas when you signed that and to support your peers with some of perhaps even find some future collaborators for a future application. And then as I mentioned, we'll finish with welcome throughout the presentations today to joining, please make sure that your microphone written in the Q&amp;A box rather than verbally today. This funding opportunity is, It's the first time that we've really provided a the health and social care system. It's perhaps in smaller ways through some of our that we've really put the focus on this really so many brains in the same in working in this area, so thank you for joining. of what to expect from that funding opportunity. It's also an opportunity for you to hear some On how your research can really make a decarbonising the health and social Is the chance to learn a bit more particularly if you perhaps haven't applied connections with your peers and explore The intention is to generate some research and solutions that can be submitted as So in terms of context, I wanted to just give health and sustainability. So our approach. support that is available both in the virtual we'd really encourage you to take advantage of. detailed information on the themes and the scope won't be published until the official launch. give you enough of an indication of the So if you've joined the session today, you about NIHR, but if you are completely new. and Care Research. We're funded by the We're the largest funder of health and social in partnership with the NHS, universities, patients and the public. element is really important to how we work. research in low and middle income countries, but So a bit of context then to this call. Climate, health and sustainability as a 18 months old and it draws together existing operational footprints. So carbon footprint of at the moment, how we best mobilise knowledge through means such as NIHR, journals and evidence. develop their skills in this area and how we build course our main focus for today's session. sustainability were formalised in March commitments. If you're interested in taking and they cover the next 2 years. a commitment that we would increase funding for 3 areas through these 3 pillars, human systems. Of course, this is an opportunity relates that hasn't had much formal support in the past. excited to see what ideas you bring forward. This will be a PS25 million funding call over 5 As I mentioned, the opportunity will will seek to address urgent knowledge We anticipate that a range of projects in size that includes developmental applications We'll also be actively encouraging capacity be able to apply for between 10 and 20% of your In terms of area of interest, it is fairly broad see when the scope is released in later in to support decarbonisation of the health and There are some specific themes that have which you'll see, but we're keen that You will be in many cases much You may have some really interesting and we don't want those to be ruled out. are likely to include developing reducing carbon emissions in innovations in diagnostic imaging and empowering patients to manage their own health; There are some things we're Co production, so collaboration with charities, local authorities, SMEs. you feel this as well that for such a vast it requires collaboration across areas closely with each other, so we're If you haven't applied to NIHR before, And patient in public involvement. This approach. Again, if you have applied to any of with this. If you're not familiar with it and lot of guidance on our website and you'll build this in to your study design. which is research inclusion as a this is something that every applicant will NIHR recognises that research is not And that research could do more to and in order to facilitate that, to build inclusive research design into their inclusive design components, because we appreciate additional thoughts, additional time. it's a good idea to think about. so again, if you've applied to NIHR in the to a specific programme. This is different. It's your proposal using a single application form. including the links on the 27th of November. to an individual NIHR programme or to I just wanted to draw your attention as well On the 12th of December, we've got a support and we have a second session on the 16th to for some support from our colleagues once the Cliff and Catherine later from RSS and they'll be able to offer you and how they can support. need is here sustainability@nihr.ac.uk for you might have after today that aren't answered. the email address you'll need to contact them for I'm going to leave it there because I'm very keen and start to become inspired and formulate So I'm going to hand over now to Doctor Thank you, Jenny, and good morning, everyone. happy to be here today and I wanted to give of the Greener NHS Programme and then we do in around research within the programme. research innovation within the Central Greener And this morning, what I'd like to do is relatively aware of what we're doing and there. But then I want to give you a little bit research and innovation and then hopefully dig interested in from a research perspective and what we can do around research, think are are still in the way. perspective, the work we've been doing to try So first of all to to start with. the NHS and I think we're all well aware of health and our health and the avoidable death this major issue and there was a really was available, I think in 2022 that described that are associated to to air pollution, so a real kind change is disproportionately impacting those the health inequality surrounding health and the first message is very much sort of a major the NHS, being a major employer, the largest contributor to those emissions emissions. so it's very critical *speech breaks up* This major challenge and to try to drive together try to sort of improve health, improve, behaviour and also healthier diets. So lots system, from the NHS to try to reduce the And there's so many different opportunities and But just to give you a little bit of an overview all really well aware already of this. We have launch commitment that the NHS has of becoming by 2040. So anything like the electricity we And the second commitment is to reach net zero influence and that's what we call the carbon a major part of the emissions that come the graph that demonstrates that really well. the world to commit to this, and so it's very, system to embed net zero into legislation And in 2022, we also had every NHS Trust and publishing a green plan. We have towards net zero and specific priority area. the Care Quality Commission to try to look how care is delivered and integrating progress has been made in this Just very briefly, this is the kind of and you can see here on the right hand side supply chain on the sort of scope 3 emissions And that can be any kind of non-medical equipment, But we also know, for example, that medicines point of views for anaesthetic gases and Cliff will And there's also a good proportion here of visitors to tackle, so you can see here emissions we have in the healthcare system acknowledge the fact that those emissions happen we have a large carbon footprint but also largely in primary care and actually that we focus on decarbonising everywhere. area of focus, as you can imagine from having work around the travel and transport and the and our facilities, how we reduce or maximise the renewable and be more energy efficient, but also estate. So lots of challenges there. that we'll come into in a moment. the workforce and what training and education good and safe care being assisted on the behaviour related to that as well. Lots of of whether that's medical or non-medical and emissions that we find in that supply chain. How do we gather and collect the data? our progress and start to look at what are Lots of work as well around the food and in hospitals are energy intensive, but also from. Medicines accounting for 25% of the medicines are the point of views, but also in high in carbon emitting in carbon and trying to clinical transformation, how can we deliver safe footprint and how we can transform our service little bit of a background of the Greener NHS more around the research and innovation space. of different opportunities. We're very keen to work start to kind of stimulate collaborations and principle across the research sectors and across foster does this kind of key collaborations but also sustainable health research systems. kind of carbon intensive practises. We already don't know what we don't know, so kind of kind of hotspots carbon intensive practises. biomedical clinical research and clinical trials. further evidence, and that could be generating reporting the evidence of those practises system. So then we can start to drive actions and We're working very closely with different funding space such as the NIHR to try to sort of could be here in the UK nationally, but also Now we're not going to achieve a Greener NHS research into implementation, and hopefully that. But it's really important to think how that research can actually translate into for the research that we're considering today. and the members of the public through but also research needs across, We've been doing a lot of work on trying to understanding the research, innovation need and little bit more of illustration on that. opportunities and today I'm really pleased but we've seen increasing funding in that really exciting to see these opportunities and enthusiastic about this opportunities system on climate change. So really really opportunities and try to have them quite targeted And then I'm curious to stimulate the relevant area around sustainable healthcare and the academic with the experts with the clinical to make a difference and drive And some key things that we're doing within work on research needs and the sort of research a net zero NHS and we hope to have We've also been working to try to accelerate on those opportunities and we've seen a huge so it's really exciting to see that. And then And in terms of trying to sort of increase got the relevant partners together. conference on the research output UKRI, the Greener NHS Programme and the NIHR. but also bring partners together for opportunities important collaborations. And we've also in particular the UCL Partners, on a which I hope to show you a video at the to try to build this collaboration and So now onto something important. Would the key area of research that And this is to give you a little bit of an idea of that'd be really interesting to share today. emissions within different clinical that around activities and emission data. intensive practises exist, per specialties? so this is not published data, but I thought that some of the big hot spots are across different medicines and general surgery, for example, of really high in terms of carbon emissions. understand what within the specialties carbon hotspots. And sometimes we think of travelling is kind of light purple colour found is obviously bed days are very carbon clinical specialties and actually in some of the with clinicians, so this is really carbon hotspots are and try to understand where And then to give you a little bit of an idea of that against those big workstream focused area on the kind of moving towards lower carbon care evidence to understand where those carbon hotspots low complexity areas which we know are burdensome, intervention in real world practise but also sort of more preventative diagnosis and lowering We've got lots of work as well around digital you know that it's also carbon intensive and need digital infrastructure within the healthcare efficient healthcare, but actually trying to think core benefit of digital and how we can improve but also thinking about the environmental what methodology we can use the digital transformation, but also how we can I think we've all heard of the heatwave in 2022 London hospital. So it's really critical we associated to the digital infrastructure. methodology and the data from a research methodology that can capture this kind of health impact and outcomes, together with and how can we bring that together in, in the to inform change and also lots of research Behaviour and workforce is a key area of of support the model shift at pace in the clinical workforce to deliver more sustainable sort of system barriers around behaviours Adaptation is a key area of interest, and at adaptation report and we're really looking at to the changing climate. And there's a estates to heat, for example, but also the strategy. But I think it's really important integrate adaptation into think of them together. When when we think of today that I also wanted to mention to mitigate the the carbon impact of our about adapting to that changing climate that Estate and facilities I've mentioned briefly how we can have sort of smart maybe, adaptive healthcare, but also looking at how we in the use of our energy within estates other sectors into NHS estates that have So I think that's an opportunities there. a strategy that has been published. And I think a of staff, of patients, of visitors, commute, sustainable transportation and behaviour, Around medicines, I think we've got lots of priorities are and medicines. We focused a lot of be the sort of next priorities, what are the high But also trying to sort of assess and sort of demand driven emission reductions. that would support things around social prescribing perhaps is of interest, and other areas have changed, so trying to really understand to focus on areas we know are high emitting. that we've got a policy of trying to reduce And is trying to understand how the future strategy and how can we try to bring to understand you know how the evidence based, policy and next strategy around sustainable the value based procurement. While how do a value based programme and looking at the of financial aspect of a product, device or And that kind of links as well very well to or evaluate reusable, remanufactured product within introduce sustainable, reusable equipment and And so hopefully that gives you a little bit of But the key notes here across to prevent unwarranted variation in care. kind of climate change impacting vulnerable increase in health inequality in the research patients and involve a diverse range of of the that kind of increase in health inequalities and you bring the right stakeholders together, this implementation and translation into practise. thank you all for listening and for your time. for Q&amp;A, so feel free to send me or want to follow up on anything, but I'll hand Wonderful. Thank you so much, Fanny. that presentation and I still felt think a really good way of setting us up session today. So I'm going to hand over to us about a case study in detail just to give you a bit of an idea of how your Over to you Cliff. Great. Thank you very much. Can I just check that you I can, and I'm hoping that everybody else can too. What an excellent start. OK, well, thanks Cliff. I'm an anaesthetist in Manchester and where one of my jobs is to work for NIHR Research from my colleague Catherine in a bit. But my a case study about this gas that you can see oxide and it's already been alluded to in the have been something that we've been interested to walk you through what we've done so far with of the impacts that you can make, but how various by a call like this one can make a big difference oxide is an interesting drug because. is a greenhouse gas. we have to find a universal language the way we tend to do that is using And what that does is it uses some instance, in the case of nitrous oxide, that if atmosphere, that would be a bit like releasing time period. This data is for 100 years. to do with the wavelength at which nitrous infrared energy. And also to do with how long lasts for over 100 years in the atmosphere. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, gases contribute to global heating. This But it's nice and clear the way it displays see that carbon dioxide is far and away the golden and orange areas, depending on where methane in light blue, but then nitrous oxide making a significant contribution to climate from healthcare. In fact, that's a minority. So many of you on the call will be familiar with used, I think, gets used in this context. This and air or entenox, and I think many of us will will be familiar with devices like this where you and then you breathe it out and But that's not the only place it's used. In anaesthesia, in general anaesthesia, an operation. We have this concept called the of summarising what we're trying to achieve. even though I said sleep just now, that's induced state of sedation which has to achieve unconsciousness. Patients shouldn't be aware of But also we'd like immobilisation, it's really and also for the patient to stay safe if they're third thing is analgesia. In other words, pain the patient couldn't be aware of being in pain scalpel into somebody's skin and they don't have like their heart rates and their blood pressure them. So nitrous oxide is both a sedative, it just like I showed you with my colleague on the it's been used of as part of a But over the years, we have found that there are and in some cases do it just as well, or even more and more commonplace are this drug, something on the along with, say, the fluids that are bit like morphine, but it's really quick to come that it gives you is a bit more control over that it doesn't make the patient feel as sick to patients. And then this is a little indication, So injecting some local anaesthetic around the the surgeon makes their cut and that can be targeting your intervention just at the relevant on the the whole patient. And that can be So we can replace nitrous oxide with alternatives, benefits, but have got benefits to the patient happens if we do that? And this is a graph that illustrating the carbon footprints of general and in the darker lines those are heavier kids, in ones that are dashed are where you've got nitrous solid is where you haven't. And you can see that that's attributable to an anaesthetic for a child as well. But that's not the full story, because of nitrous oxide is directly related to its weeds of how nitrous oxide is that relationship isn't very close. room and this is our one at Wythenshawe Hospital. got rid of it. And what you can see here is lots to little bits of pipe work that all feed into that you can see sort of disappearing off in this is unusual for a drug that it's basically or oxygen, or medical air or electricity. to make sure that the supply never runs out. And built into a system like that, particularly Now, one of the interesting features of this kind of supply is that unless drug ordering and logistics, the clinical use is that they need to order less, and this truck might And even if that means that when the truck turns emptied cylinders. They don't just get topped up they get released into the atmosphere. And regulatory point of view, these cylinders full are deemed to be a sort of opened medicinal you know, people's bottles of tablets or tubes in exactly the same way. So procurement, buying inevitably results in their ultimate release video very heartened that Fanny's video worked this is a colleague of ours called Alifia Chakera. She's a pharmacist from Scotland. And she's going to tell you about how she sort of and then started to implement some ways of me know if the audio is failing to come through, everyone. I'm Alifia. I'm Alifia Chakera. I'm a pharmacist and I'm the Head of Pharmaceutical Sustainability one of the co-founders of Pharmacy Declares - practitioners, but I'm also the And it's here today, I'm going to just give you a was came to be. Nitrous Oxide Project came to be. Before I started, I undertook a literature review for theatres. And I quickly realised the low gases. So I set to work dealing with that. I also made it made sense as a pharmacist financial reporting, I also embedded carbon stats within that. had a real impact on the volatile footprint, obvious wasn't changing, so I knew I needed to and I made it part of my mission to solve how the gas was supplied. I wanted to know how Estate teams, QAS, pharmacists, anesthesist more rigorously, asking them were using this drug, how often they were using beginning to ask lots and lots of questions on the but around early 2020, I began to suspect we suspected clinical use was very low. And what we And supply system and I think I was, To sort of help aid this work, I utilised the DMAIC And to frame this analysis but aren't familiar with DMAIC, it's used was originated in the car industry, but it labour and materials. And this is this is quite complex systems like medical gas supply. loss across 3 sites between of system loss of total nitrous oxide. of Anaesthetists and the then Sustainable and they were great. They were really so but also my Scottish-wide analysis was showing that Lothian was quite normal, it was quite the its anaesthetic nitrous oxide use so, problem, because we followed the So luckily I made contact with two great and Amarantha Fennell-Wells, a dentist, and in Project to a wider UK and global audience. anaesthetic system loss on data on 16 systems And I quantified system loss and waste Now the biggest emphasis of the supply of this drug to the clinical it doesn't really matter what supply you plump has to meet the needs of that particular site or this is now a wide worldwide initiative and just my first site, I am asked loss of 790,000 litres. The worst side I've dealt with in the global arena is about 11,000,000 litres with So just to wrap up quite quickly, we're now 60%, which is great, but our analgesic nitrous 11 percent. We're just beginning the journey there preventative maintenance as well as of that loss happens well before it gets to Thank you for listening. Lots OK, I hope you enjoyed that and hopefully that's a couple of things. isn't it? So 2020 was when Alifia just some of the crazy numbers, so you know was ordered wasn't even being used. And why you should do multi professional work. aspects of a piece of knowledge. I So what does Alifia tell us that we should do using nitrous oxide and you can find that out from nitrous oxide manifolds and see how quickly do you have ageing infrastructure? Is your pipe is in these cylinders? You actually have to weigh done. And so do you have evidence of a supply delivered and therefore taken away and therefore national impact. This is actually NHS to me rather than Alifia's backyard of the emissions of anaesthetic nitrous oxide have that this is actually happening is individual nitrous oxide manifolds. Looking at those if you sort of multiply the mass of nitrous oxide about 5 tonnes of CO2 worth of greenhouse gas 5 tonnes of CO2 by you? Well, when I first started back. But aeroplanes have got more efficient. then back to Australia again. So this is really When we did the work that we've described at every hundred of those cylinders that we so we were effectively flying to Australia 1 time that we should have been. So we've it with some mobile cylinders that you can wheel to the point of use. And that's appropriate for And these are the outcomes that our institution, we're ordering, it's fallen by 98%. Interesting, this, and this might explain why An organisation like the NHS will barely notice I work, but this is the impact that it's we virtually eliminated CO2 emissions just before I finish. I'm going to show you Paul Southall and he works for the Royal to talk about how all of this work has been Hi everyone. My name is Paul Southall. I'm an Assistant the environmental advisers to the Royal a couple minutes to talk to you about my over the last few months and how we've managed and Facilities focused towards a clinical voice You will have already heard about the very on the nitrous oxide project and it's inception. to give a little snapshot of how we translated done about the science behind it and the work that already a lot of the initial work that existed on perspective and quantifying nitrous oxide leaks. started to understand or ask a lot be doing with nitrous oxide going forward. clinically have noticed, particularly within of a clinical voice and what we should the best thing to do it was because it And I had the idea earlier on this year that we statement on nitrous oxide manifolds, and the fact to try and move forward the rate at which the was progressing. It tied in quite nicely because at around the time that we were looking became evident after a conversation with some could tie what we wanted to say clinically, along with what was going to be updated So back in April this year, I started work going to be spread between anaesthetic to give a perspective on removing nitrous oxide manifolds. amongst various organisations. We've estates and facilities toolkit was likely to be So we got a fairly tight timescale, which we to meet, to try and get it done at around statement to say that pipeline nitrous oxide is we can move to an alternative, which is point of myself and the Royal College of Anaesthetists. anaesthetical organisations within the UK. of them. And I think that's testament that quantified the issues with nitrous oxide it meant that the work could progress quite statement was written, shared amongst the various And it just goes to show that even though quite slow and feel a bit like wading already exists and is robust and backs a strong will amongst like-minded individuals which is very reassuring and would set precedent So the statement was done 3 months very good feedback and approval both within and New Zealand, who are looking to mimic And I think it's a very good example of how thoughts around there potentially the science behind the initial thoughts perspective on what we should be doing acceptance and production of a guideline to the work that started years and years ago widespread practise worldwide based on an OK, so there's a consensus statement. but actually it's 4, isn't it? It's from Alifia getting some national in fact, international and that's a really compressed timescale to wrap up then what have I talked about, has gone from recognition of a problem through to And just to come back to the point of all of this, you all might want to do, here are the sort of key methods that have been involved. So in the to the importance of the sort of climate science that kind of bolstered the reason for using that's Alifia Chakera's master's thesis just That was combined with some implementation science into practise. We've had bits of policy, for bits of innovation, to get those We've had some case studies which have, that Paul mentioned that I think I've spotted some us all how it's been accomplished elsewhere of those methods have fed into this piece of you've spotted something a bit like this in your teeth into. Thank you very much. That's great. Thank you so much for sharing that, Cliff and which I think really helped to bring it to life. Research Support Services who works with the kind of support that you can look for Thank you. Can you see these slides alright? Yep, you can see them fine. Perfect. Hi everyone. I'm Catherine El Zerbi, and I work as the RSS, based at Lancaster University. This about sustainability and research design. I'll make some reference to the NIHR carbon further resources that you might find useful. provides free and confidential advice throughout all stages of the research process post-award. It's a national service with 8 with specialist centres for public health and you'll be a health or social care researcher Or other national open and So before I describe our vision, I just So what do we mean by sustainable research? avoiding the depletion or degradation of natural gas emissions. The overall aim of sustainability the environment for future generations. interchangeably with sustainability and are which are environmentally responsible. firstly to support researchers in designing and to a greener health and social care system. And all health and social care research in a way that is by highlighting to researchers key resources, and we'll also be offering expert practises into research designs. specific health, health and social care development and evaluation of innovative green green evidence based practises as well And here's our fabulous sustainability Professor Cliff Shelton, who you've just heard and a Professor of Anaesthesia at Lancaster I'm an applied health researcher with a background in particular, green social prescribing alongside who's a medical doctor with a background Who also works alongside And then there's Charlotte, who works with has a background in ethnography and she also has expertise on food production So what support does the RSS offer? We of methodologists, including statisticians, social scientists, behavioural scientists and in research design and methods of analysis. involving the public in your research research inclusion is of the utmost importance to throughout all stages of the research process. a project team and advice and support also approaches to dissemination, addressing feedback other sources of support and advice, as well So when preparing your funding application, it's carbon reduction guidelines, which consists of 19 the guidelines is to reduce carbon emissions. efficiency, transparency and reliability, I'm but I'm just going to draw your attention to some. to involve patients and staff to get their views feasibility and the acceptability of your research And that would be wasteful and ensure that you've so you know what's already out there fields to avoid unnecessary reproduction. efficiently by making good use of resources RSS methodologists in the design who'd be able Importantly for research inclusion, when make sure to include and listen to advice such as patients, clinicians, VCSE staff in and retention so you can actually make the study data collection, for example by clearly setting when it will be measured and precisely how And for clinical trials, make sure you try and are critical for the safety and the well-being of your results and avoid inefficient or ineffective require extensive travel to research sites and in make sure you contextualise any new prime research And also ensure that research report contain usable and reproducible to others. impact of research, do are rapidly and appropriately disseminated. And the environmental impact of any proposed I've included here a slide on some sustainability which you might want to check out. These Sustainable Healthcare and initiatives such and work on greener clinical trials led by And finally, to access research support design by completing a very short support request form on the left here, and do visit the RSS website, Thanks very much for listening and Thank you so much Catherine. That's really, really helpful. in the chat box which my colleagues are very So yes, don't worry, you don't need to be furiously jotting down