The world needs cheaper EVs, but Tesla has historically automaker outside China making electric vehicles The rest are bleeding money, and everyone is trying to Mega casting or giga casting, as it's often called, is promising to do exactly that make EVs cheaper, Tesla has been credited with pioneering the method. I think it's basically going to be how old cars are Rivals are already sinking billions and trying to jump If you want to make an efficient electrified car, you parts, you need to have less complexity, and you end a better way. It's a very logical kind of process step I would say. Details on how much each is spending are scant, but the parts of all sizes, is expected to grow 70% in less That's $126 billion by 2032. I see tons of opportunities going forward, so we can of the vehicle, which in the end is CO2 and range for Researchers agree mega casting is potentially are some serious challenges. To say this is the future of car production can be. But the realization showed that the problems are more conventional way. So this is really an open game at Mega casting, or as Tesla calls it, giga casting, is a casting. It's a common manufacturing technique that car parts. The process is fundamentally simple. You fill a high pressure mold with a substance such as After some cutting and finishing, the part is ready to While casting has been used to make smaller parts for a vehicle have historically been made out of stamped together, but at some point Tesla started pushing the large giga casts in the model Y model three and the Large sections of the front and the back of the Tesla is really the first one to go and have very castings in cars to replace large sections of what are steel or stamped aluminum structures. The front and rear portions of the early model three The same two portions on the very similar model Y are each. They cast a rear body or front body is lighter, Much easier to manufacture. Beginning with these big pieces allows Tesla to make We decided the floor should be a part of the car. The battery is the floor. With that, Tesla says it can build different parts of together one by one. The carmaker claims it cut the size of its assembly Casting also provides the opportunity to rethink stamped sheet metal. You could add support in places where it would be too Otherwise. You can use less material to get the same amount of be most advantageous for for the loads that you're The material matters to giga casting is typically done carry such heavy battery packs, reducing weight as Automakers have been using aluminum, even in gas cars, Ford was able to drop 15% of the f-150's weight just steel, but aluminum is more expensive than steel. Overall, giga casting can help close that gap. A Giga cast component would be about 30% cheaper than aluminum. It would still cost about 50% more than reduction, and other advantages might make it Tesla has said that combining its giga casting process about 10%, increase range by 14%, and use 370 fewer parts. Cnbc reached out to several automakers. However, most said their plans for mega casting are in Eric Severinsen leads Volvo's electrification The company doesn't break out exactly how much it is portion of the $1 billion it spent on a plant in Right now, we are investing in Torslanda. That's the first plant out with this. Of course, you know, long term, this is what we will generation of vehicles. The potential goes far beyond reducing weight or the Automakers say giga casting offers them a chance to In the past, when you had to change your rear floor, And now we need to change in one tool. So one you have the machine there, one you have the rear floor is much easier. And that offers you flexibility for product upgrades. It offers you for flexibility for, you know, So it has a lot of other benefits to it. Of course, it's a big investment to start with, but it Once you have it, you can really get more flexibility Tesla has said it wants to use giga casting to In the very early days of the automotive industry, single place. Henry Ford changed all this by adopting the assembly This streamlined the process and allowed cars to be This is still basically how vehicles are made today. First, sheet metal is stamped into the panels that These are welded together. Then the doors get hung on the body. The whole thing goes through the paint shop and gets Then the vehicle goes into final assembly. The body is married to the chassis or the frame. But at this point, oftentimes the doors might come off mechanisms, door trim panels, and other things are vehicle goes in all the instrument panels, seats, This, some say, is really inefficient. Those door openings make it tricky to fit all that Robotic equipment helps, but it is tough to automate You still have to have people leaning into the vehicle wrenches and those things. Putting all of this So you start with some large gigacastings, attach and then. Kind of Lego fashion. Everything comes together at the end. And the big advantage of this is that instead of people working around something like the size of a So you could have four people working at the same So there's lower labor content. It also takes up a much smaller footprint, because I stretch it out. Tesla has claimed it could reduce factory size by 40% When you look at the million to 2,000,000 square foot, million worth of potential investment on a large plant footprint. Volvo installed Gigapresses in its new $1 billion plant plant it is building in Slovakia. We have casting, we have the structural battery pack and the casting is a significant part of that. Ford, General Motors, Toyota, Hyundai, Nissan and Despite all this, reports have said Tesla has paused the underbody of its next gen vehicle out of one piece Tesla said it does plan new models that will use be produced on current manufacturing lines rather than such as the one discussed on Investor Day 2023. The company did not elaborate on whether it planned an model two. Tesla VP of engineering Lars Moravy said method it had described earlier came with risk because One argument for why they did this is because Tesla towards autonomy more thanks to the success of the FSD 12. And so what we're going to get in tandem with the robotaxi. So it has less to do with them being next gen facility or giga casting, and more to do with autonomy. But there may also be technical challenges. First, there is some skepticism that casting very reduction. Volk's own research indicates that extra comparable solution from sheet metal. There also appear to be higher scrap rates for every average be unusable due to defects for stamping, it's Again, castings are made by filling a mold with molten But the larger a part is, the further into the mold through the mold, it is cooling. Filling the mold properly becomes more challenging and That can create small voids in the molded part is in. Those defects can become structural weak points within So that's a general challenge. With any casting and large castings it gets a little Some evidence indicates cars with large giga casts or expensive to repair. In discussion with our German premium carmakers like can't do this because our customers wouldn't accept happened low speed crash, we have Unrepairable car. Repair ability on a rear floor, for example, is has one repairability on a door, for example, if you would go What we're going after here are components which are And, you know, you don't repair them that much either. And if we need to, of course there is a solution to It's not an easy operation, but it's definitely On its second quarter earnings call in 2023, VP of replace a rear cast rail on a model Y ten times corresponding set of stamped parts. My design team works with our collision repair team. Since we're closed, loop on this with insurance and we faster to repair. We have an incentive to do that because we have our We expect that we'll continue to do this, and faster over time, and we are actually able to. Change the details of the casting with inserts. And we actually do do that all the time. So because the answer is actually wear out and need to changes to the inserts and tweak the castings. I've been casting everything from, you know, a gearbox whatnot. And also we have made this as a kind of a So we have already in the second generation, the x90, of large cast aluminum parts. And now we're taking the next step of doing the rear But the way on how to optimize your process and the the risks, I would say, is to take it a bit like that So we are done now doing the rear floor. We're not doing the full car, and then we're building The question will be the next and the over next model parts. Question mark.