Few armies in history have a reputation as During the height of the empire, the Mongol invincibility, inflicting devastation upon So thorough was this carnage that many writers it as a punishment sent by Heaven: for how and armies fell so quickly? In this video, we will attempt to explain and provide insight as to what made the horsemen the overview of the tactics, logistics, siegecraft, Did you know that we have a whole podcast Because we do! And you can find the link to it in the description Have you ever taken down a Demon Lord? Crushed the Ice Golem? The sponsor of this video Raid Shadow Legends play with more than 500 champions with unique Use our link in the description and download It is not easy to choose the best champions have different skills, but our top-5 is: Abbess, Turvold, who is good against single targets, Eva, who drains enemy energy, and our favorite in his path. Raid's just released a ton of amazing new clan Quests. There are new Champions to collect from Fragments competitions. If you want a huge head start in Raid, all or scan our QR code and you'll get an epic refill and 1 Ancient Shard so you can summon These rewards will be available for the next all here: Sponsor of today's video MagellanTV is the Generals! We have been enjoying our MagellanTV subscription MagellanTV is a documentary streaming service, among them hundreds of historical documentaries. If you want to learn more about the Mongols, Khan documentary. We also recommend Timur: Mongol Messenger of the daily life of the Mongols! You can watch both anytime, anywhere, on your is compatible with most devices. Our viewers can now take advantage of an exclusive gives you an entire year for less than $3.50 Every documentary I've watched has been worth MagellanTV collection! This offer is available to the returning users, Simply click on the link in the description today. Support our channel and do that at try.magellantv.com/kingsandgenerals. Start your free trial today! The Mongols are of course most well known their lifestyle. In the great grass seas of the Eurasian steppe, lives on horseback, learning to ride before herds of sheep, goat, oxen, camels, and horses. A lifetime in the saddle in the often-harsh riders with incredible endurance, able to peoples. Each Mongol learned to shoot and construct with a child's bow to hunt marmots and small of the bow until able to master the powerful, Highly mobile, deadly at range, and strategically archer, when used properly, could be the master Many aspects of the above description of nomadic recognizable to a scholar of earlier nomadic This Chinese description of the Xiongnu in the Mongols well over a thousand years later: ride sheep and shoot birds and rats with a older they shoot foxes and hares, which are Thus, all the young men are able to use a It is their custom to herd their flocks in but in periods of crisis they take up arms This seems to be their inborn nature. For long-range weapons they use bows and arrows, If the battle is going well for them they for they do not consider it a disgrace to Their only concern is self-advantage, and For these earlier peoples, many of the same by both them and the Mongols, such as hit feigned retreat. Contemporaries to these earlier peoples remark as horsemen, and the danger of their arrows. There are however, several aspects in which than his forebears, in the form of several weapons. The Scythians, for instance, had only soft Essentially two leather pads held to the horse absorption for the rider and little for him The Xiongnu and Huns were better supplied a sturdy wooden frame cushioned for the rider. It was a more secure base for the archer to to unhorse him. Leaning into the front of these saddles lifted the shocks from riding and reduce jostling What these early riders lacked, from the Xiongnu was the paired stirrup. When the stirrup emerged is a matter of controversy- like wood which do not preserve well archaeologically. But it seems likely the stirrup, in a form the third century AD in northern China or arriving in Europe with the Avars by the sixth Stirrups provided several advantages: they the rider to raise himself in the saddle for or for the horse archer to stand and use his bows. Further, the knees could better absorb the the horse in the heat of battle. Outside of combat the benefits were more significant, Needing to be on horseback all day while tending off of the horse's back. A skilled rider on a strong horse could now When coupled with multiple remounts, the distance The famed weapon of the horse archer was their Rather than a self-bow, such as the Welsh of wood, the composite bow was made from layers The horn and sinew increased the strength arrow. Most composite bows of the steppe world were storing yet more energy while providing leverage Whereas a self-bow's strength can only be archer stronger, the recurve composite bow power. The shorter bow made it more maneuverable even travel with heavier and lighter bows The composite bow was however in danger of not an issue in the generally dry steppes to the bow's health. To offset this, bows of the Xiongnu and Huns bone plates to reduce warping, but this made In contrast, Mongol bows of the conquest era to the arrows and granting them greater penetrative to climate changes, perhaps accounting in in South East Asia and Europe. Despite some modern claims, the Mongol conquests in horse archery, as the technology itself developments were completed by the 4-5th centuries For that, we must look to the military leadership existing steppe traditions. Beyond these technological changes, the Mongol with steppe armies of the preceding centuries. The method of organizing armies using the the highest commanders led divisions nominally of just 10 men who operated together. Traditionally this system was based within Khan to largely break down the tribes of Mongolia decimal system, removing minor chiefs and to his rule. Earlier steppe confederations like the Xiongnu and retinue which often provided a number For the Mongols, this was originally the nokod which he expanded upon when he took the title The keshig under the Mongols evolved beyond where top officers learned the ropes of command. From there they were appointed not only to as the Mongol Empire expanded, and acted as Sons of the royal families of subject kingdoms help secure the loyalty of their dynasty, Mongol imperial destiny. Going through trials alongside the Mongols their homelands they were loyal servants of The following example should prove illustrative rather than invented, traditional nomadic All nomadic horsemen learned to hunt from from predators and provide extra sustenance It also proved an excellent means to practice For the Khitans of the Liao Dynasty and the as training for unit operations. In an operation called nerge by the Mongols, at times several days journey in diameter, before them into an arena, where the nobility the rest to the men. While simple on paper, organizing this properly Given the size of the operation, a time table military units, to reach their destination To prevent animals from escaping, the various to prevent holes in the line which would allow animals to escape resulted in punishments. Following orders, meeting time tables, unit blocks of Mongol successes, and what allowed While large scale hunting expeditions were its rules applied to warfare and battles, a military strategy. Time and time again a nerge was set over an be the meeting point. Mongol units would spread across the region, the rural populations towards the major city Refugees fled into the city, not just overwhelming of the siege it could withstand, but also population brought stories of Mongol atrocities city would submit rather than face Mongol At the founding of the Mongol Empire in 1206, lightly armoured horse archers, made up of or been conquered up to that point. The keshig may have had heavier armour, but closing with the enemy only once they had Chinggis Khan understood well the effectiveness his first campaign against a sedentary society, 1209, he found that unless he could draw the or starve them out, that fortifications could With his invasion of the Jurchen Jin Dynasty mass defections of Jin forces to his army. Not just Khitans, a Mongolic people who loathed archers, but also numerous Han Chinese, who and numbers. More significant was the defection of Chinese whom, Xue Talahai, defected to the Mongols for sharing his knowledge, teams, and experience. Further capture of Chinese engineers, stonemasons, how to attack cities and build siege equipment. This adoption of warriors and knowledge of the greatest deviation from earlier nomadic In order to conquer not just the fringes of but the sedentary state itself, the Mongols sedentary societies. Each culture the Mongols encountered, and tools for their arsenal. With the Mongols themselves remaining primarily and Iranian infantry and siege engineers, Khitan, Jurchen and Turkic horse archers, Within a few years of the start of the Mongol army core of horse archers was supported by Able to pick the most effective tactics, weapons, Eurasia, the Mongolian army was thus able beyond what earlier nomadic empires could It was the job of subject peoples to fill either could not fill, or had no interest The poor Khwarezmian defense in 1220 can be anticipating pillaging horse archers, not siege weapons and technology. The Mongols also showed themselves willing China. The Mongol Empire fractured in the second Debate rages as to how the Mongolian military and to what extent they were influenced by Generally, the debate steers towards questioning of cavalry. The presence of true Mongolian heavy cavalry accepted, with it often said that the small heavy armour. In the Ilkhanate, scholars like A.P. Martinez or heavy cavalry to better contend with Mamluk a preponderance of heavily armoured Mongolian An aspect of this argument is that the Mongols abandoning nomadism altogether, while their order to carry the greater weight of armour, Other scholars such as Reuven Amitai have that it remained the job of oft-mentioned cavalry while the Mongols themselves continued Similar arguments have been put forth for it has been suggested that Mongol troops adorned Song Dynasty. In the territories of the Golden Horde and access to the steppes was greatest, there of light horse archers. By the latter half of the 14th century, it which Temur led to begin his conquests. Much like Chinggis Khan, Temur incorporated and knowledge, overcoming the deficiencies Despite a growth in the percentage of heavy armour remained difficult and expensive to average nomad. The vast majority of post-Mongol successor the Kazakhs, to the Crimean Khanate, saw their not just to the Mongols of the 13th century, Huns of the 4th century, to the Xiongnu and The Mongol conquests were not a result of and lifestyle of nomadism, but of skilled and taking advantage of the tools of both While the Mongol army of the 13th century horde overwhelming its foes through sheer The army of the Great Khans was a well disciplined of complexity which was part of the key to Most Turkic and Mongolic nomadic armies of the decimal system, dating back to the time In this system, warriors were grouped in multiples These divisions were kept within tribal lines: unit with men from another tribe. It was the innovation of Chinggis Khan during break down these tribal ties. With few exceptions of tribes like the Onggut the old tribal organization and reformed the social organization. As new nomadic tribes were added to his empire, warriors among these units. All new recruits of this system were held set out by Chinggis Khan, mandating strict non-Mongol nomads even had to shave their Instead of a confederation of tribes agreeing Khan began attacking sedentary powers in 1209, the 'Mongol' identity, a unified single By largely removing the original tribal allegiances ensured all ties of loyalty led directly to able to tear apart his empire. Further, Chinggis Khan extended this decimal Each unit from 10 men to 1,000 had its corresponding supplying much of the equipment and serving The base unit of the Mongol decimal system archers, supplying their own bows and horses. The smallest organizational unit, it was quite of the Roman legions. These were men who had to live, train, hunt, self-sufficient and move on its own as necessary. Carried with these ten men were their spare clothes, cooking utensils, and other supplies. Often, they traveled with a felt tent (ger, as goats, sheep, or even cattle or camels Down to its lowest levels, the Mongol army mobile as possible, so when travelling long each unit could move on its own. Building on this foundation, Mongol army units less maneuverable enemy armies. Discipline for the arban was strict: should the other 9 men would be put to death. With the intention that strong bonds of loyalty a burden few were willing to bear. More important than draconian punishment was Men could be expected to be rewarded for meritorious One of Chinggis Khan's promulgations was won; only then would all the loot be collected, This ensured the army would not break down enemy to escape, and that every soldier could Further, the widows and children of fallen From his own difficult childhood, Chinggis by the abandonment of families. By keeping soldiers content with the knowledge Khan prevented the societal infighting that effectiveness of his armies. It was the efforts at this level which instilled their commanders noted by all of the medieval Ten arbans formed a jagun, 100 men. 10 of these formed a minggan, or 1,000 men, the tumen, 10,000 men. While the tumen is more well-known, the minggan of administration and command. When Chinggis Khan declared the Mongol Empire the chronicle written for the imperial family and who was assigned to command each of them. The numbers of each minggan were only nominally due to the realities of battlefield losses Nonetheless, it allows us to estimate the soon enlarged with the submission of neighbouring Based off this number, assuming a ratio of or 1:5, the population of the region has been higher estimates of 1 million; similar figures century. Nomadic societies did not distinguish between ages of 15-60 could be called up for war, and shoot a bow, each had the skills for war. Compared to sedentary societies in China, portion of the male population could be considered This is how the comparatively small population to combat the great strength of the Jurchen Each division was given considerable freedom Aside from setting the target and the timeline higher command was minimal. Numerous Mongol commanders consistently operated at times by thousands of kilometres. In the early 1220s, picked generals like Jebe in North China campaigned independently of Khwarezmian Empire. Unlike Temur, who never let a campaign be of the Great Khans allowed them to place complete armies across the continent and returned without The Mongol high command was a flexible and The men chosen to lead the imperial armies alongside Chinggis Khan for years, joining beside him throughout his early trials. These were the nokod, followers who had their loyalty but their ability. Their background on the steppe hierarchy was members of the original steppe aristocracy, military ability or aided the Khan. Their elevation and position relied on the loyal to him. With the declaration of the Mongol empire of the Mongolian military was the keshik, Established in 1204 and carrying over many to 10,000 men in 1206. Made up of younger sons and brothers of the subject rulers, and worthy commoners, the units, royal household, and much of the imperial The keshik was divided into three main groups: the day, 1000 quiverbearers - qorchi - the presence of the Khan, and an elite unit of at night, and only fought on the battlefield Within the dayguard was a further thousand-man who formed the heavily armoured vanguard of Discipline was strict: no one approached the and vetted by the keshik. All keshik commanders outranked commanders The keshik also served as a military college. The young men brought into the keshik learned of strategy, tactics, logistics, and training, and armies. Many a well-known Mongol general had earned the keshik, such as Chormaqun, Baiju, Kitbuqa, Qarachar Noyan, the ancestor of Temur, served his son Chagatai. Aside from the purely military role, the keshik Khan. Numerous offices of the keshik are named, his personal herds, equipment, weapons, clothing, hunts, and preparing his meals. One office was specifically for the collection imperial camp moved, while another was for The keshik also served as the most important judges, military leaders, governors and confidants Members of Mongke Khan's keshik like Menggeser of the empire below the Great Khan himself: well as head of the imperial guard. Due to its close proximity to the Khan and a highly prestigious, and valuable, position As the keshik was made up of sons of commanders to ensure the loyalty of their families. Those of foreign royalty, when they returned as loyal servants of the Khan upholding his Richly rewarded and their positions hereditary, of the Great Khan's military and government. At the highest level, the Mongol army was directions within Mongolia. The army of the Left Wing of Eastern Mongolia western Mongolia - bara'un-qar - and the the keshik and the Khan's personal troops The heads of each of these divisions were Khan. Together, these formed the Mongolian regular Under this system, there was a dual level descendants of Chinggis Khan, and the qarachu, humble beginnings to lead armies. Working alongside the regular army was the First mentioned during the reign of Ogedai, Made up of a large percentage of non-Mongol the various minggans, it was often commanded The tamma was placed on the frontiers of the would situate itself in the best available They were a consolidating force which would unlike the great invasions which saw the Mongols the tamma was intended to spend years in the Acting as temporary military governors, behind administration would be established, and the empire. Crushing what remained of local resistance, the independent powers on the Empire's borders. One tammachi, Chormaqun, completed the subjugation and into the Caucasus during his deployment. Since the Mongols did not rebuild the fortifications empire's borderguard, desolating and patrolling from attack. The tamma comprised two main forces: the main and an advance force of scouts posted closer As the empire expanded, greater numbers of military. These roles could be shockingly inhumane, The hashar, so called in the Persian sources, before the Mongols as living shields against fill in enemy moats with dirt or their own This was particularly common in Chinggis Khan's Empire. Yet, the Mongols also learned relatively quickly military roles, and manpower the Mongols themselves It was most notably in the form of Chinese the invasion of the Jurchen Jin, more Han there were Mongols fighting in north China. Likewise, as the Mongols expanded westwards, supplementary roles. The Mongols, primarily lightly armoured horse subjects to take on more vulnerable positions These same groups also served the Mongols local garrisons. These local forces, the cherig, are what Mongolian down local uprisings, as Mongol horsemen were Sedentary kingdoms not destroyed in the initial and commanders to serve alongside and under Armenian Cilicia. While continuing to fight in their traditional the Mongol army, they had to follow the commands In the 12th century Mongolian steppe, warfare archers, though a few forts were scattered the rule of the Khitan Liao Dynasty. With raids on China uncommon in this period, warlords like the young Temujin to learn how With the declaration of the Mongol Empire the region, Temujin, now taking the title on China. His first target was not the immense Jurchen Xi Xia Kingdom. Here, the newly formed Mongol Empire had its Lacking siege equipment, the Mongols could The first was the simplest: a blockade to The second was the feigned retreat; appearing trick the garrison into running out to pursue goods and slaves, only for the Mongols to The final was the most complicated, used first A nearby river would be dammed or redirected, Chinese walls made of rammed earth would be spread disease throughout the city. The first attempt against the Tangut was not flooded their own camp in the process. Still, by 1210 Chinggis Khan succeeded in three tactics were to be utilized again and The next lesson in the sieging of cities came against the Jin Dynasty. The Jin's border defences, the predecessor Dynasty, ran through modern Inner Mongolia's earthen wall; this was bypassed as the tribes let him through. Over their first year of battle against the field battles, like Yehuling, and devastated could only be taken when the garrisons were As Mongol victories over the Jin armies mounted was losing the Mandate of Heaven, a steady Chinese provided Chinggis Khan the secrets Some of these were basic tools: woodworkers shelters which could be used to approach the Vast numbers of defected or press-ganged Chinese equipment. More valuable were actual siege specialists tools of taking cities. Large wheeled scaling ladders, including the for large groups of men to mount the walls. A large wooden screen held onto a mobile arm enemy arrows. Some of the most effective were the ranged The Chinese used a traction catapult: teams end of the arm of the catapult, thus propelling The ox-bow was essentially a large crossbow, These tools and the experience to build them Cities would now fall to them with regularity, siege, they took the Jin capital of Zhongdu, When taking a city that had refused to submit employed: massacres. The intention was to spread a simple message. Cities which immediately surrendered were to only send tribute, perhaps supply soldiers Cities which tried to resist were severely they brought on Mongol losses or killed a In which case, the destruction was thorough, Individuals of skill, such as artisans, engineers, for service to the Great Khan. Some women and children were taken as slaves Slaughter allowed the Mongol troops to exert but generally the Mongols viewed it as a practical They lacked the numbers to provide garrisons in lengthy sieges for every settlement. The fear of the consequences that would come as the most powerful catapult. Horrific atrocities, such as building towers the numbers killed in cities, all served to and implacable foe. Many cities would simply submit rather than The war against the Khwarezmian Empire provided techniques. Muhammad II Khwarezm-shah's defensive strategy garrisons across his empire's northeastern calculation that the Mongols lacked the means Chinggis Khan brought with him teams of Chinese and by then his army was well versed in the With access to large teams of engineers, Chinggis to concentrate on a single section of the barrage, demoralizing the defenders and grounding of naphtha into the city to spread fire and Mongol troops protected by mobile shelters archery to pick off any defender foolish enough Feigned retreats repeatedly drew overconfident The Khwarezm-shah's decisions to leave each be picked off one by one. Fear and demoralization were refined as tools as physical. Massacres and absolute destruction rewarded up after previously submitting like Merv and Attacking the rural and lesser settlements into the city brought panic and exaggerated the city's resources. The flight of Khwarezm-shah Muhammad, hounded the Khwarezmian leadership from becomign a Fake letters were allowed to be intercepted mother was in cooperation with Chinggis Khan, Another gruesome method was called the hashar This was the forced levy: captive townsfolk army, making it appear larger than it was. During a siege, they were forced against the as veritable meat-shields: soaking up enemy in moats, often with their own bodies. The defenders were forced into the mental cities, or allow them to advance the Mongol The more valuable Mongol and Turkic horsemen and could keep their strength for the actual When Chinggis Khan returned to the Tangut army was well hardened at siege warfare. The Tangut cities now fell in quick succession, Tangut capital was razed to join him. Mongol siege abilities continued to advance In north China, the Jurchen Jin were finally The Jin capital of Kaifeng was taken through early gunpowder bombs were used by both sides. The Jin dropped them onto mobile shelters the walls, while the Mongols used catapults Some historians, most notably Dr. Stephen during this fighting, but the evidence is used gunpowder weapons outside of fighting Mongol sieges in Korea met with surprising At Kuju in late 1231, multiple assaults on a few picked men drove off repeated attacks Attacks were launched on the walls day and to the gates to burn them, only to be destroyed the walls to protect sappers was destroyed walls to pour molten iron onto it. Scaling ladders were toppled by Korean polearms. Bundles of sticks soaked allegedly in human could not be put out with water, but were One set of catapults was repulsed by Korean barrage breached the wall 50 times, and 50 After a month without headway, the siege was by heaven. A spirited resistance, as the Mongols faced efforts. In Rus' principalities, the armies of Batu The wooden walls of the low-lying Rus' cities Khan. Palisades were erected around the cities to and cover their actions. Catapult teams acting in unison made multiple cities. Few held out more than a few weeks. In the eastern half of the Hungarian kingdom, the easily accessible terrain of the Great Depopulation in these areas reached as high To ensure the population of a given site was days after taking the city. Those who had survived would come out from begin to repair the damage. With their guard let down, Mongols riders repeating this process until no more came In the more densely populated and rugged western major sites were protected by hard to access progress slowed. At Esztergom in early 1242, Hungary's main forced to build a screen of bundles of twigs engines. Once the catapults had brought down the city's hurl bags of dirt into the moat, the garrison Mongol archers. With it apparent the city was to be breached, or hid anything of value then retreated to A furious Batu, denied his prize, was unable An able defence led by Simon the Spaniard either to crossbowmen or counter siege engines, Batu pulled back from Esztergom, leaving nothing Further difficulties were had at Szekesfehervar. The outer part of the city and its suburbs citadel, defended by Hospitallar knights and Mongol assaults. After a few days the siege was lifted, and Europe. For more on the reasons for Mongol withdrawal of our podcast on the Mongols, but it seems sites, proved difficult for the Chinese style reduced by enemy counter artillery. The withdrawal in 1242 may have begun as a and more catapults, only for political matters them from immediately returning. When Hulegu set on his campaign against the he was met with a variety of well defended The Nizari strongholds were cunningly designed, Most fell through negotiated surrender thanks Some resisted, and were so strong they only Lammasar, near Alamut, fell after a year, mountains, withstood a Mongol siege for 15 Unable to bring their large teams of catapults as long as their food stores did. For more accessible locales like Baghdad, there was little chance for the isolated and There, huge teams of catapults could work of the walls. After only a few days of this, the walls of in the city. At the start of 1260 Hulegu, assisted by troops of Antioch and County of Tripoli took Aleppo, sending shockwaves across the Ayyubid princes It's quite possible that this close cooperation evolution to Mongol siege technology, in the Able to launch projectiles further and harder weight and gravity to replace teams of men Having spread across Europe and carried to carried it even further. For the siege of Xiangyang, Kublai Khan requested him with Arab engineers capable of building Thus did engineers make the long trek across to the Great Khan in China. Xiangyang and its sister city of Fancheng the traction catapults were powerless against Possibly, as identified by Stephen Haw, the of cannon mounted on small boats to break be continually resupplied by river. The siege dragged on for five years until Greatly outranging the defensive weapons within the spirit of the defenders. Having once picked up their first siege weapons advanced weapons of the age. Yet the fall of Xiangyang and the Song Dynasty mark of successful Mongol conquests. Successful sieges in their ensuing campaigns and in wars against the Mamluks and Delhi and able defense stood defiant against Mongol As catapults and other complicated siege machines the end of the unified Mongol empire, and of manpower to send as fodder and to man large could not repeat the many victories in siege Lacking in both political will and unity, gradual deficiencies in siege warfare, though in open battle. The strength of the Mongol army rested on mobility and deadly long-range fire power. Doctrine for all horse archers was simple: away as possible for as long as possible, demoralized, their formations broken by an leaving their lines in an effort to pursue The Mongols did not invent these techniques, the mightiest of previous steppe empires, situations. Mongolian and steppe nomadic army tactics Each warrior on horseback had several remounts, of arrows. This was the bare minimum to be a combatant, Riding a horse from their earliest years and almost as early, by adulthood every Mongol horseback. Nearly every medieval writer comments on the the Mongols were able to endure hardship that Peerless archers and expert riders, any commander an army. The Mongol army was not trained, as much as The basic tactics evolved out of two tools: Every Mongol was armed with a composite recurve Incredibly powerful, these bows could send One stone inscription from early 13th century Yisungge sent an arrow almost 530 metres. This was likely a specially made light arrow penetrative power at that range. Actual effective combat range is debated; under 170 metres, while John Masson Smith to maximize accuracy and penetration. Regardless of the range, medieval authors accurate with their bows. In the Caucasus, where contact was easily in horse archery, one Armenian chronicler Nation of Archers. Alongside the power of their bows, the horse tactics. Every nomad of the great Eurasian steppe rode ideal environment for rearing them. The Mongol horse is smaller than those of rarely more than 14 hands or 142 cm high at Unlike the grain and fodder fed horses of horses lived almost exclusively off of the So prime is this grassland that even today humans, and account for over 6% of the world's When on campaign each rider brought 5 or more it rest for the following days while he rode Like their riders, the Mongolian horses were larger breeds. Sure footed, well trained, and obedient, though reliable platform for battle. Campaigning and entering battle with strings opportunities unavailable to their enemies. This proficiency with a bow and easy access blocks of the Mongols' deadliness in battle. Usually facing off against armies that could or skilled bowmen, the Mongols enjoyed far tactics maximizing this advantage and minimizing with the enemy. Perhaps the most recognizable manifestation May believes is meant by the shi'uchi, 'chisel' the Mongols. Waves of Mongols, organized in their decimal ride towards the enemy, shooting arrows as At a set distance -perhaps the 30 metres or would pull away. As this wave fell back, the riders would turn 'Parthian shot.' With one wave falling back out of range and wave advanced and carried out the same process, To do this successfully is tremendously difficult. It requires extensive training to not result each other or sending arrows into each other's In order to function smoothly, each wave needs back and move accordingly, so as to not obstruct When operating effectively, it was extraordinarily For those subject to the Mongol caracole, the storm of arrows. By nature, humans do not generally enjoy having it occur repeatedly brings on the additional turn away but ride directly into their lines. All the while, arrows with shocking accuracy line, whittling down both numbers and resolve. To someone on foot, the successive waves of endless. Even well-trained men would struggle to fight enemy in anger, both options aligning exactly If the enemy began to rout under the arrow would instead charge into the enemy, falling opening in the line. An enemy army in the midst of flight would to ride them down much easier. If instead the enemy, especially proud cavalrymen, this allowed the Mongols to employ the favourite A feigned retreat is easy enough on paper When an enemy ran after the Mongols, the Mongols of the very brave and well armoured enemy There was a real danger of the feigned rout reached the Mongols; their often superior havoc on more lightly armoured Mongols. If orchestrated properly however, the fleeing choosing, where other Mongol units waited Archers picked off the isolated enemy, and the stragglers. If this had been all the enemy cavalry, the infantry and pick them off at their leisure. The feigned retreat was employed again and where garrisons were tricked into coming out to epic, nine-day pursuits. The most famous was that which Subutai employed River. Perhaps not quite the master plan it is often fleeing before the Rus' and Qipchaq following scouting the enemy army, as suggested in a Pursued across the steppe, Subutai saw the Cuman-Qipchaqs gaining ahead of their Rus' Turning back to face them, on the Kalka River against only a portion of the enemy- first Rus'. With their advance halted, Mongol arrows now Order was lost, the Rus' began to flee, the enemy army. In the event that the enemy did not pursue orderly formation, the Mongols had another More mobile than their enemies and always pull away and ravage the surrounding countryside, the local population, filling the sky with enemy access to water or resources. Defections and panic set in as refugees fled A stationary foe or one holding up in a wagon was soon trapped in a nerge, a Mongolian hunting Cordoning off the area, the Mongols would cutting off avenues of escape and driving At the strategic level or while hunting, strict alive. But on the tactical level, the nerge had a A gap would be left in the steadily closing Mongols. To those on foot, it seemed a silver lining. The Mongols understood the psychology of men run, they fight to the death. Provided a means to see another day, either And by doing so, they did exactly what the At Mohi, when the Hungarians fled through beside the fleeing enemy, whose formation Once the foe was suitably bedraggled and exhausted, harm to themselves but ensuring few, if any, Contrary to some depictions, heavy cavalry differed from the heavy shock lancers imagined For the Mongols, their own heavy armoured subject peoples in this role. For the majority of Asian heavy cavalry, from tribes of Central Asia, the primary weapon both horse and rider were fully armoured. In the steppe, heavy armour was harder to raw materials. The more common armour varieties reflected ready access to: felt and leather. Perhaps the most well-known was the hatanga thickly layered felt. Increasingly over the 13th century, the hatanga a brigandine. For man and horse protection laminar was favoured, The most expensive was lamellar, consisting rows. Flexible, the armour was designed to fold arms and hands were left exposed to not encumber The Mongols considered lamellar better protection for nomads to both produce and maintain. Mongolian heavy cavalry was intended to be weakened by arrow fire or drawn into feigned prolonged melee. With their smaller horses, the Mongols had especially when fully armoured, and heavy in the early days of the conquests. As more subject peoples were added to the take on these vulnerable close quarter roles, horse archers safe to pick off the enemy from While fighting in China, Khitan, Jurchen and by the Mongols, while in the Ilkhanate, Armenian of the Mongol wars in the region, particularly For extraordinary situations, the Mongols At Mohi in 1241, the initial effort to storm to build a bridge further downriver in an When the Hungarians successfully resisted pulled back, and early the following morning, guards left on the Hungarian side of the bridge. This was quickly followed up with a cavalry The bridge over the Sajo River was taken and While fighting off a Burmese invasion into and scent of the Burmese elephants frightened The Mongol commander quickly ordered his men Dismounted, the Mongols advanced on foot and Under the incessant barrage the elephants before leaving the battlefield. While part of the Mongol force continued providing trees to remount their horses, continuing Where the Mongols' tactical ability failed maneuvers- the humid jungles of southeastern The conquest of the Song Dynasty was only Chinese soldiers and creation of a fleet to south China. In Syria, historians like John Masson Smith capacity to provide for the vast horse herds them to advance with smaller forces the Mamluks In straight tactical engagements, the Mongols fought in similar fashion to themselves. Chinggis Khan's only defeats were against it seems he considered the nomadic Turks of be the greatest single foe against Mongol The Mamluk sultanate of Egypt and the Sultanate often Cuman-Qipchaps bought as slaves, to Essentially, these were armies which could and force the Mongols into engagements which An army is only as effective as its ability of the Mongol Empire were no exception. As with so much of the Mongol military, popular of the 13th century Mongol army are a mix feats. Quite rightly, most discussions of the Mongols' as nomads, and how they utilized their animals As pastoral nomads, their very lives provided strategic logistics. Every seasonal movement had to be well planned pasture availability. Pasture had to be carefully managed to avoid proportions for water usage and avoiding its Pastures for winter grazing needed to be secured Lacking sufficient alternative fodder, the by eating through the snow; the sheep, goats instinctively dug through the snow with nose In turn, each animal provided milk, meat, much of their requirements to survive. Each nomad had to learn how many animals were of experiencing moving vast herds of livestock Any Mongol who survived to adulthood knew off little, make use of every part of the all valuable skills for any army on the march. As stated, the Mongols did not provide fodder off of grasses. In the great Eurasian steppes, this provided requiring the difficult and lengthy procurement Larger horse breeds of sedentary societies, strength enough to campaign from only grass or preferably, grain. For the smaller horses of the Eurasian Steppe, intake. With no shortage of grass in the steppe, it of horses; far more than any sedentary rival A single Mongol warrior could go on campaign the horses so as not to overexert a single While the vast herds of their animals were the five snouts were rarely all brought on Sheep and goats simply cannot travel as quickly or 3 miles, is a reliable speed with these Depending on the campaign and as conditions slower moving army, which may have sheep, and some families, a base camp called an ordu, general's, wife in his absence. The warriors would ride separately in flying Travelling with only their horses, these columns to this slower main body, to resupply on those them. This would mean stocking up on staples of the next stretch of the 'horse only' part A group of 10 men, an arban, would stock up curds called aaruul or cheeses called eezgii. The arbans returning out to campaign carried which themselves were a source of nutrition Mares were preferred, as both their milk and value when other alternatives were scarce. If the horse died on the march, then it would even the bones would be used for a broth called pieces of meat and vegetables could be collected. These meals were augmented by hunting when or marmot- a useful practice to keep their Little was wasted, and numerous primary sources of the Mongols to eat anything. But the Mongols knew quite well that picky Yet even in the steppe the supplying of so at the end of winter or in drier years. When campaigning against their enemies, this was simply not the same expanses of grassland steppes. In order to overcome this, the Mongols relied Mongol armies travelled in divisions and smaller countryside, feeding their horses on both grain stores, while the riders would feed This would also play into their strategy of and rural villages towards major urban centers, resources. It also had an advantage of making it difficult reports would come in of Mongols everywhere, The chaos of the panic-stricken flights of with them exaggerated stories of the scale confusion. This takes us to one of the most popular myths fast force, a lightning bolt from the steppes. This is a result partly of the intentional were striking cities hundreds of kilometres distances at lightning speeds. But calculations by John Masson Smith Jr., time and distance travelled by the Mongolian in the speed at which they travelled. The greatest speed recorded was the great Subutai in the 1230s; their journey from Qaraqorum over an estimated six months, made an average This part of the journey, with little campaigning made with the greatest haste. In Smith's calculations, the average kilometres data was around 22-24 kilometres per day. Smith suggests that the speed made by Batu an army based on steppe horses in ideal conditions. Time in the day needed to be given for the longer for horses to meet their daily feed this puts a cap on the top speed of these And yet such ideal conditions would not be Smith is also able to make calculations for in the 1250s. At the fastest part of his journey from Karakorum kilometres in some six months, some 15 kilometres Across Transoxiana and Iran, Hulegu rarely and 9 kilometres per day depending, and often For Hulegu, the campaign was much more methodical depicted as. The sources describe Hulegu marching in the the afternoon and sleep through the night, It's important to note that for armies like men, only a part of the force was actually Aside from fellow nomadic peoples like the journey similarly, semi-nomadic Khitans and Northern Chinese, especially as engineers, Transoxiana and Iran. Such huge and varied armies could not live Instead, such campaigns took advantage of Mongol Empire. By the time of Hulegu's expedition, Great to be made for his brother's army along and wine produced from across western Asia. All pastures that Hulegu's armies may need horses. Roads were cleared, bridges built and mended both for the men and the many carts travelling tools to construct siege machines. As Hulegu marched across Asia, he met with had to help arrange more supplies for the Marches had to be carefully timed, aiming take advantage of pasture availability. While it is popular to think of the Mongols by the time of their great campaigns they These marches were generally made without Even for Hulegu himself, most of his wives by the end of the 1260s; only then did they If even for a royal prince it was hard to Mongolian families were permanently separated For tamma garrisons, stationed on the frontiers stated. Travelling without their original families, based such as parts of modern Afghanistan and mixed with the local cultures. The family separation policy of the Khans of the Mongols into the Turkic and Farsi peoples Much of the aforementioned comments are also For their base equipment, each Mongol was building his own bows and arrows, his own At the start of the conquests, blacksmithing Access to the raw materials was a great hurdle dynasties to their south. For these reasons, specialized equipment such have been uncommon and restricted to those If the average Mongol trooper had a metal such as maces and spears, or if metal armour, As the empire expanded, so too did their access A great many Mongols must simply have repurposed After a battle, Chinggis Khan's orders were armour of the defeated enemy forces, though were given priority in this. From both conquest and tribute, as well as the Mongols gained reliable access to great necessary for their crafts. On the eve of the invasion of the Khwarezmian Khan's entourage and a great minister of Balasaghun, meaning Chinqai's City, in western Made of mainly captured and relocated Chinese several "manufacturing centres" in Mongolia. Both a farming settlement and weapons production they moved west for the invasion of Khwarezm. Even the imperial capital, Karakorum, had It is unclear to what extent these finished soldiers, outside of arrow production. By providing their warriors millions of iron them the most effective, and deadliest, assistance No evidence seems to indicate there was ever of Mongol troops or provide them a regular have some base equipment such as knives, bows, The Franciscan Friar William of Rubruck, during of the Grand Khan in the early 1250s, had protect him armoured; both were in hauberks according to Rubruck. Other travellers such as John de Plano Carpini of the Khan's keshig, little effort was Communication between their forces was an In this, they developed one of history's Situated on average roughly 30 kilometres were locally supplied relay stations which The communities the ortoo were situated in bearing either written or verbal communication, There they would be resupplied, fed, jump messages to and fro. Each user was provided a passport, called The highest level of the gerege, the golden Khan and stated: "By the name of Chinggis man is empowered to act with the same freedom person." Below it would list what supplies this level The yam system may have been brought to Chinggis Empire, be they Chinese, Jurchen or Khitan, necessity of retaining some semblance of authority No matter the origin, Chinggis Khan had recognized The yam was expanded over the course of the and Mongke, but continually disrupted and had to both supply the yam, and the greedy their 'generosity.' In much of the empire its presence was marginal Great Khans. Yet it provided means to connect far flung between the various, long ranging armies carrying Via the yam, orders could be relayed across the new censuses carried out on the orders and supplies to be mobilized. Because of this, Hulegu was able to meet up food depots without needless delays. By the time he reached the Hashashin fortress stations been able to line up the campaign able to cross the Caucasus and unite with fortresses: both armies have marched on opposite While films and video games like Ghost of by forces entirely consisting of the Mongols, The majority of the army serving the Great of nomads. Even during his war for the unification of on troops of different backgrounds. While all were nomads practicing the same Mongolian languages. Many were Turkic peoples, some of whom were Nestorians. For horsemen of the steppe, these sorts of names generally served to mark lineages both which could shift as necessary. So once these Turkic groups submitted to Temujin, Khan, these tribes would signify their loyalty involving the adoption of Mongolian hairstyles For any nomadic steppe confederation, this the Gokturks, such an approach can be seen Following the declaration of the empire in the Mongol ulus, incorporating neighboring of Turkic languages, who were nomadic, semi-nomadic, around lake Baikal, the Kirghiz of the Yenisei Qarluqs of Almaliq and the Onggut in what Some, like the Uighurs, had a great role in It was from the Uighurs that Chinggis Khan still in use today in Inner Mongolia. While Chinggis was incorporating these peoples the army itself, for it was their cavalrymen For his early campaigns in the steppe, infantry However, once Chinggis Khan began to take in what is now China, he required a shift Fighting against the Tangut Kingdom, his horsemen walls. Dominating in the field battle, they lacked For this, he would need to incorporate sedentary While Chinggis Khan won his first significant through the might of his horsemen and their gains, he would need to utilize the very inhabitants Within the Jin Dynasty were three primary from Manchuria and ancestors of the Manchu, the Khitans, a people related to the Mongols and Mongolia during the Liao Dynasty, until Chinese, who made up the vast majority of Even before the invasion began, the Khitans, were defecting to Chinggis Khan, providing Having been treated as second-class since in the military, there was long-simmering the Jin. The Jin rulers, fearful of a Khitan revolt had sent Jurchen colonists among them in an monstrously, creating the revolt they so feared which immediately submitted to Chinggis Khan his conquest. Not only were they men and horses for the away from the Jin Emperor and stretched their While they were undoubtedly important for would accompany the Mongols in the west. In late 1218 or early 1219, when Jochi and from hunting down Merkit refugees near the Muhammad II. In the fighting Jochi was injured and nearly was rescued by a timely charge of a Khitan Perhaps the most significant addition to the of Northern Chinese into the Khan's army. It was the adoption of Chinese infantry and to learn the ways of siege warfare, and have The Mongol leadership always wanted to avoid horsearchers. Each one was a lifetime's investment and them to push siege equipment was simply to The Mongols recognized this early on, and ever-growing new Chinese army. From pushing siege equipment to filling in tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, within years of the start of the conquest. Many were undoubtably forced, driven before the arrows of the defenders. But it cannot be dismissed that many willingly the Jin Dynasty had lost the Mandate of Heaven, their capital of Zhongdu in 1215. By the time Chinggis Khan took his forces there were more Chinese fighting on behalf fighting in China. While some of these Chinese forces were under officers, many were led by Chinese warlords like Shih Tienzi or Cheng Jou. These were men who not only willingly served loyalty; Shih Tienzi and his family would Mongols until the reign of Khubilai Khan, of the brilliant Mongol commander Mukhali. With Chinggis Khan absent fighting the Khwarezmian the Jin Dynasty occupied until the Khan should From 1217 until his death in 1223, Mukhali the reduced Jin Empire. Cities after cities were taken and retaken, distance of the new Jin capital at Kaifeng. While Mukhali's main force was Turkic and in other provinces in China Mukhali left command against the Jin to expand the Mongol Empire. Neither the Jurchen nor the Mongols were Chinese; Empire, the fighting was being undertaken of both states. In the area around the Shandong peninusla Here, an uprising against Jin rule broke out, Here, loosely aligned warlords -some independent, with the Song Dynasty, and all hating the and the Jin. Some, like Li Quan, joined the Mongols and for decades, earning high status and rewards Li Quan's son, Li Tan, lasted as a prominent Khubilai Khan in 1262, likely on account of Only in reaction to this, did the Mongols in their service. Despite the restriction of their independence, in importance as their war into the more humid, advanced. Against the Song Dynasty, a vast army and alongside a core of Mongol horsemen and often Persians and Turks. By the end of the war against the Song Dynasty, to the island of Yaishan, the combined Mongol-Chinese Chinese, Zhang Hongfan, assisted by a Uighur, The Mongol conquest of China could not have Chinese, or their military skill for taking The Mongols made heavy use of Chinese manpower; Balasaghun were built using labourers from Chinqai Balasaghun served as an industrial supply Mongol armies as they passed through When planning the great western invasion in a vast army of Chinese infantry with them. This was dismissed early on in the proceedings, However, Chinese siege engineers were brought invasion of Khwarezm, almost certainly with and with Hulegu in the 1250s- thousands of the remaining fortresses of the islamic world. But the Chinese were not the only ones brought As the Mongols advanced across the western absorbed into their forces. During Jebe Noyan's swift conquest of the to their new Mongol masters without issue, they accompanied Chinggis Khan against Khwarezm. In the Khwarezmian Empire, much of the military of whom freely abandoned their posts to join their former employers. We have already noted Chinggis Khan's mass population before his armies much as he had With his forces now experienced in siege warfare of a need for defections, as long as the Mongols positions. After Chinggis' bloody campaign ended however, the locals militarily, generally for garrisoning Regional commanders appointed by the Mongols of nomadic troops. Therefore, when rebellions did rise up after would not be Mongols from the steppe, but The western invasion of Batu and Sube'etei troops in Mongol employ; the heavy usage of the presence of Chinese siege engineers; we Alan capital of Magas, alongside many Alans a Mongol raiding party was captured in Austria, in their employ, a man who had apparently of the Mongols. Men were also taken in the opposite direction carried east to serve in the Mongol military, The general assumption seems to have been their loyalty. A young Qipchaq warrior would be unlikely bribes or escape on his own, and therefore After the end of Mongol imperial unity, the In the Ilkhanate made heavy usage of Georgians as heavy cavalry, who often took a primary Sultanate. While some have suggested this was due to it may just be again the Mongol inclination into the most vulnerable positions, and thus Khubilai Khan's foreign ventures towards on non-Mongols for roles his horsemen could Leaving many of the Mongols to guard major Central Asian Khanates, Khubilai's famous usually made up of Chinese troops, augmented in the closest direction to that which he For the invasion of Japan, Koreans built and navy, especially in the first invasion, while well as Mongols, made up the varied assaulting For the invasions of Dai Viet, Champa and troops, as well as men raised from Yunnan southwestern border. The navies supporting the Vietnamese invasions southern Chinese manned by Chinese crews; as varied. The army was led by a former Song commander, Yiqmis, and the total force was under the The Mongol army was never a homogenous body. Aside from these most obvious mentions we of men from across Eurasia who served the Local scouts to show them routes; smiths and force to help produce and maintain weapons of the army; physicians from China who must Korea to Afghanistan. While the Mongols themselves provided the vast support system and ability to draw on Eurasia which allowed the Mongols to expand The rapid expansion of the Mongol Empire in to a single new military invention providing Still, the Mongols were adept in employing As historian Timothy May wrote, "the Mongols But what was the role of the Mongols in the over the 13th and 14th centuries? For some historians, like J.J. Saunders or Kate Raphael, the idea of the of its knowledge to the west is a total negative But the great British sinologist Joseph Needham a variety of gunpowder weapons during their such as Iqtidar Alam Khan, Thomas T. Allsen carried a number of gunpowder weapons, such their conquests over the rest of Eurasia. The first recipe for gunpowder appears during a Taoist work urging alchemists not to mix carbon-rich materials like coal, and to especially would light aflame. The Chinese quickly found the energy produced used in fireworks display, and in civil engineering Contrary to some popular sentiments that the it did not take long for it to be turned to By 1044, possibly in reaction to military Dynasty was presented a collection of nine gunpowder recipes in the Wujing Zongyao. This technology advanced under the Song Dynasty, foes on its northern borders. These weapons took a number of forms. Bombs thrown from catapults (huopao), enclosed Arrows (huojian) with incendiary packages mounted crossbows, developing into early rockets Most infamous was the fire-lance (huojiang): a jet of flame three metres in length, sometimes the tube to form a terrifying, flame-spouting some to explode and throw armour piercing buildings, with others to have a choking, envelop and confuse the enemy. The Song Dynasty government was so terrified the sale of any of the materials composing Xi Xia in the 11th century. Both lacked access to natural reserves of But with the Jurchen conquest of the Liao the newly formed Jin Dynasty seized not only and resources to produce their own. The first textual references to fire-lances, Song forces desperately resisted Jin invasions. When Chinggis Khan invaded the Jin Dynasty engineers entered into his service, bringing machines. One such Chinese siege specialist who willingly Khan west on his campaign against the Khwarezmian According to his biography in the Yuanshi, of the Amu Darya, a number of Khwarezmian Guo Baoyu ordered a volley of huojian to be The ships were all set aflame, allowing the While huojian originally and literally meant Jixing Pan, and Thomas Allsen, over the twelfth when powdered gunpowder mixtures with higher sulphur made for effective rocket propellants. While Chinggis Khan certainly brought Chinese was not a key component of his tactics. Likely, Chinggis lacked the resources to manufacture was making use of them, it was in limited After Chinggis Khan's death in 1227, his with the Jin Dynasty, in the process acquiring as well as the natural and manpower resources In 1231, for instance, the Jin utilized a thunder-bomb (zhen tien lei), to sink Mongol These were bombs with high nitrate content When set off, they created a monstrous noise a wave of armour and flesh tearing shrapnel, In 1232, the great Mongol general Subedei year-long siege in which both sides utilized Subedei's catapults launched bombs into mobile shelters pushed up to the walls by iron chain. The defenders also employed a number of 'flying-fire-spears' Depending on the interpretation, these were arrows which when fired acted like a flaming these were rockets. At one point in the siege, a Jin commander into the Mongol encampment, a surprise attack or drowned then they tried to flee. It was remarked that the thundercrash bombs the Mongols feared. Yet, these devices could not arrest the fate The reliability of these weapons was questionable. Different proportions of the chemicals, might or not at all. The range of these weapons was short, and situations where their effect on enemy morale These bombs were not yet the secret to destroying structures, towers or gates along the battlements. Regardless, they were a frightful weapon when Thus, it seems unusual that Subedei, the commander faced these gunpowder weapons, made little begun a few years later. Though specialized Chinese artillery was employed principalities and Hungarians, there is little weaponry in the west. Many of the mostly wooden cities of the Rus' sources generally offer no description of A possible indication is supplied by the Franciscan through the Rus' principalities late in the Great Khan. In his report Carpini very accurately describes intention that his observations would help He wrote that the Mongols threw Greek fire from prisoners, a combination which was very As the Mongols, as far as is known, did not to describe an incendiary of unusual properties As Carpini's knowledge of Mongol siege tactics it seems to imply that a special type of fire-causing possible gunpowder weapons Subedei had brought The famous smoke screen employed by Mongol in April 1241 may also have been a type of Haw. Devices to deploy toxic smoke and smoke screens least the 4th century CE, but during the Song with gunpowder. In easily shatterable pottery containers, ingredients, shrapnel, arsenic and lime. Dispersed by the force of the explosion, these gas which blinded, disoriented and confused described at Liegnitz. Not understanding it was a gunpowder weapon, fire-lance, the Poles focused on the most mistakenly identifying a Mongolian horse-hair Lacking words for these new devices, which individuals examine, it is hard to determine term, such as Greek Fire or Naptha, to refer purpose. In some cases, it is even hard to tell if Such is the case of the Persian writer Juvaini's to which he was a direct eye-witness. Juvaini writes of how Hulegu was provided households of Chinese catapultmen, as well At the siege of the Nizari Assassin fortress weapon deployed by Hulegu's Chinese siege translation of the Chinese term for the weapon Juvaini writes that it delivered meteoric to stones lobbed by the defenders, which did These ox-bows in Chinese warfare, as described packages attached to the bolts, and were used While some historians like Stephen Haw see be remarked that Juvaini's tendency for gauge how literal this passage must be taken, Generally, it seems that gunpowder was little Likely difficulties in travelling with it of it, and at the time of the conquests there allowed them to procure more supplies. The matter was very different in the continuing Khan bombs were a main component of the wars them. Thousands of bombs were made every month in they needed to be was another matter. One Song official in 1257 inspecting the border vulnerable sites were in these weapons, and were fruitless. The Song continued to throw whatever they deeper into southern China, but by then the weapons for war in China, but manpower reserves, hell-bent on overrunning the south, driven the eventuality of his conquest. Khubilai's great general Bayan set up ranks lobbing stones to pound down the walls, gunpowder the defenders within. Against such an implacable foe, the last of It appears that an advance in gunpowder weapons Near the ruins of Khubilai's summer capital has been found. Bearing a serial number and an inscription weighing 6 kilograms (13 lb 11 oz) and just 14 in) in length, it suggests a product of Much more primitive and rougher versions have of the Tangut Xi Xia Dynasty, crushed in 1227 It is probable that the evolution of fire-lances stone to larger metal tubes capable of larger on by the emergency of the Mongol invasions. Only in the last years of the 13th century and sophistication to become true bombards, known from over the fourteenth century. There are a few passages from 13th and 14th usage of these cannons, usually in naval engagements; when Mongol ships fire upon fleeing Jin ships, bearing huopao, but from ships too small for Much like the western texts, the Chinese did though. Calling them huopao, the same name for the is impossible to know, unless a description which to early cannons. From 1288 we have perhaps the earliest description In the war against his rebel cousin Nayan, but attacked from multiple fronts. One such operation was led by a Jurchen commander Using the word for fire-catapult or cannon, soldiers one night snuck into an encampment these weapons to great effect. From the context, it is clear that these weapons In further support of this interpretation, found. Discovered in 1970 in Heilongjiang province, a small bronze cannon or handgun has been a late thirteenth century context. Weighing 3 and a half kilograms, 34 cm in these were small, anti-personnel weapons. Not much use against walls, but devastating The Yuan Dynasty continued to produce cannon One well known example from 1332 bears an intended to be used on board a ship for suppression By the rise of Zhu Yuanzhang and the Ming and other firearms were standard features So did the Mongols spread gunpowder westwards? Recipes for gunpowder and even the first gunpowder and India late in the thirteenth century and expansions. However, the diffusion is difficult to track terminology. It's likely the Mongol armies did not travel to share its knowledge. It is notable though that when perhaps the in Arabic in 1280 by Hasan al-Rammah, he records with saltpetre for instance called Chinese A common word for gunpowder in Arabic and of the Chinese huoyao, fire-drug which implies Chinese engineers in Mongol service. By the start of the fourteenth century, fireworks in the Ilkhanate. Many diplomats, travellers, priests and merchants Empire and back, and many brought gifts from Mongol army in an attempt to learn its secrets. The Franciscan friar, William of Rubruck, service, William Buchier, the man who made Buchier appears to have worked often in conjunction Mongols. Though Rubruck does not describe gunpowder, European who did: Roger Bacon, who later describes firecrackers going off in Europe. Even if the Mongol army itself did not directly it in quantities to replace their own bows allowed its knowledge to move across the Eurasian Over the early decades of the fourteenth century, features of battlefield across the continent, to Chinese dynasties. More videos on Mongol history are on the way, the bell button to see the next video in the Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and