Mars is a disappointing hellhole lacking alive. It looks like we'll only ever have small Except, we could terraform it into a green we first need to make it worse and turn it This isn't a far-fetched science fiction tale. time scale our ancestors built great monuments problems and ventures into space to expand into Ok. So how do we terraform Mars Mars is dry and has no soil to grow anything. Its radiation, giving you a high risk of cancer. we have to give it a proper atmosphere, similar 79% nitrogen and a tiny bit of CO2, at an average We have to create oceans and rivers and then the host living things. Then we need to install from being undone by installing protective It's difficult. But a big Challenge 1: The Atmosphere Some 4 billion years ago Mars had a nice oceans and rivers. It held onto it for got blown away. Ultraviolet rays broke down until they were swept away by solar wind. Luckily a sizable portion of the water is frozen enough to create a very shallow ocean. as minerals in the Martian rocks, that give the planet its rust-red colour, To free these gases, we need to them away by using thermolysis, high as on the surface of the Sun. In The best way to do that would be to put lasers The most powerful laser today is the ELI-NP, able to produce beams of 10 Petawatts To melt Mars we need a laser twice as powerful, a solar-pumped laser that can be powered directly rods that absorb energy and release it as a laser about 11 times the size of the United States, we Let's do it! As the lasers hit the surface, about 750 from every cubic meter of rock melted. If melt through the top 8 meters of It would look terrifying. The while the ground would glow red-hot, Tireless laser beams sweep over the landscape, pass, the ground cools quickly. A strange that solidify as they cool down, like silicon and A happy side effect of this inferno is that deep underground rises into the sky as hot the entire planet. They would wash out like chlorine, and carry away harmful elements would form shallow oceans, saltier than on Earth. It would take about 50 years of continuous could use this opportunity to dig deeper in some rivers and spare some landmark features We're not done though. The resulting atmosphere is nearly 100% breathe and very flammable. To make we need to add a lot of nitrogen, which The ideal source is Titan, a large moon of Saturn, entirely nitrogen. We just have to move 3000 While that's not easy, it is doable. To we have to construct giant automated factories, the atmosphere and compress it into a liquid. which a mass driver shoots all the way to with the oxygen. We've already been able to send With enough resources, it should be possible Of course it would be much more over from terraforming Venus on the side: we So, about a century after the we have a breathable atmosphere that has isn't enough to warm it up to temperatures we gases. Mars at this point resembles a spotted with growing oceans and red patches still a wasteland, no better than a desert Challenge 2: Biosphere Installing a biosphere on a new planet is between species or sudden diseases can We would probably begin by seeding our young it would bloom rapidly, filling up the oceans They can be followed by tiny zooplankton, then by fish. Maybe even sharks and whales. If Life on land is harder. Plants need into. But most of the surface is the congealed thousands of years for water and wind to grind it But we want to be quick. And we have a in rapid succession would cause the ground to into smaller and smaller pieces. Add a bit Into this mud, we can mix fungi and able to absorb nitrogen and convert it The first plants we want to bring are since they are perfectly suited to Eventually, the enriched mud becomes the Mars' lower gravity, trees can become very tall they need and then dig deeper to turn more rocks At this point we can slowly introduce more plant though. The new biosphere needs to be maintained plants grow too quickly and absorb too much If key species die out, we could see populations other species would move in to fill the void, It takes hundreds if not thousands of years But eventually the planet will have the potential water and food available, we blue and green - our home. A Will it last though? Challenge 3: The long-term future There is a problem we haven't addressed: Mars' not have enough protection from solar radiation long term health of Martian populations. So as a It doesn't have to be huge like Earth's. It just needs to deflect the solar wind The easiest way is to construct a magnetic wind to the sides. A big, superconducting ring It would orbit at the Mars-Sun L1 between the Sun and Mars and protect Terraforming Mars would take some work, ten but it would be the first time shaped solely by us and for us. A first