(music) The Citroen XM wasn't the first large Citroen It was widely praised, but largely ignored Over 20 years after production ended it's like the Citroen SM before it. Any why not? If you're going to drive a classic car, that looks like something out of a 1980's This is the Citroen XM Story. (music) The predecessor to the XM, the Citroen CX, finances imploded and it was bought by Peugeot. Citroen engineers tried to update the CX English, but it would take until 1984 until But they'd done it without the approval too kindly to that. The CX was to be the last unconventional Citroen, By 1984 the old Citroen design team were replaced by a PSA sanctioned team. To save money, the new Citroen floorpan would be called the 605. Something was needed to take on arch-rival But PSA had their eyes firmly set on German The new Citroen, codenamed "Y30" would that, but with a large development budget car would be the car that would reclaim French PSA asked three design houses to submit proposals The team wanted the designers to emphasise A very aggressive, almost sinister look, lots a shape with low aerodynamic drag. Two of the design teams were in-house - Velizy also get a proposal from Bertone who had recently proposal would lean heavily on work they'd The proposals were submitted in 1984 and from refine their designs by 1986 and build full-scale A further round of reviews took place in 1986 The shape would be a hatchback, which was at the time, and it would have a fuel-saving PSA had high hopes for the car. They'd sold large Peugeot's in North America would sell well, competing against its premium They had plans for a 4WD version, a saloon, Citroen was known for technical innovation, It would get the latest version of Citroen's this time with 6 nitrogen spheres acting as Although the CX used a similar system which been criticised for how much it leaned into To counteract this, its replacement would control system dubbed "Hydractive" that throttle pedal and transmission to feed information conditions to on-board computers. Where appropriate - and within milliseconds sphere in or out of circuit, to allow the or greater roll resistance for better handling This handling allowed a high driving position, that would feel uncomfortable. Like previous Citroens, the suspension could ground clearance if needed. The driver could change the firmness of the My dad once test drove an XM when it was launched The nickname he gave me then was "the messer" lever or switch that was near me. And I wanted to find out what the suspension I found out the XM had a really firm, sporty He found out that the softest setting is really be supervised a lot more closely! The hydropneumatic system would also power And the DIRAVI self-centring, speed-sensitive fitted to the CX would be updated. The DIRASS system, which stood for "Direction assisted steering setup. This signalled the new direction for Citroen Go more conventional. Although the hydropneumatic suspension system Citroen steering wheel graced the cabin, No crazy magic mushroom brake button. No weird gearbox shifting pattern. To quote Citroen at the time, they would It would be a little disappointing for those but moving to the mainstream could help it And borrowing from the rest of the car industry The new car would be galvanised to prevent The Citroen CX was also underpowered, so Developed with Renault and Volvo, it was the It would be joined by a 2.0L petrol engine turbo diesel from the Citroen BX. The new car would undergo extensive tests 100 prototypes were built, and each covered The factories that would make the new car expense, and large amounts were spent on training According to one source, the car cost 7.5B PS2B in 2020. After the CX, many thought the new car would in homage to the high-end Citroen SM from (music) The Citroen XM was launched in May 1989 and Sales for the half year of 1989 were almost car of the year in 1990, also hoovering up And who couldn't love a car that had three and "Seduction"? Reviewers loved its large rear space, bigger and although it was a hatchback it used a and the boot space to give it the feel of This was known as the "13th window", referring This was touted as a big advantage at the all-round visibility, and did it with fewer To provide a powerful forward beam of light hemispherical reflector style, that being Over time headlight manufacturers experimented XM was the first car to use a complex reflector a bulb - halogen by this time - could the road despite the thin headlight size. However, in practice while the main beam was Owners have found more efficient xenon bulbs surface design. 1990 sales were respectable at 96,000, but They'd set the lofty goal of 160,000 cars That's 450 cars sold every day and was the the existing factories. It didn't help that the base XM was almost customers had to raid their piggy bank to And for non-Citroen drivers like my dad, a bit "out there" for most conservative executive car demographic. It also didn't help that as Ford and Vauxhall/Opel were abandoning mainstream car manufacturers and BMW who were making more affordable cars. Citroen sold the XM alongside the budget AX, UK customers were put off by the hatchback Citroen thought the smooth ride, V6 and turbodiesel car rolled through the bends and the engines Companies like BMW were selling their cars and this is what customers were clamouring for. Instead of sales improving in 1991, it all The early 1990s recession definitely impacted publicised mechanical issues - despite all Bad quality means rapid depreciation which 1991 sales were almost half of 1990 sales Sales were down in all markets. UK sales in 1991 were less than 4,000. Citroen sold the XM through Japanese dealers, Peugeot had used the same platform for their but this had its own fair share of quality PSA had not one, but two economic liabilities The XM estate was launched in 1991, and the But the ability to carry larger, heavier loads A 24V version of the 3.0L V6 was added, giving 8.6 seconds, but this was asking a little suffered from cam shaft reliability problems. The following year in 1992 the 2.0L gained 10 seconds. With the estate launch there was no reason put out to pasture after a long 17 year production The UK and US markets favoured saloons, so Geneva auto show in 1992, but plans to put that showed up in the wild was one presented A few XMs were imported into North America never made a serious attempt at entering the I bumped into one in the late 1990s while team in Seattle. While I was working on this thing up here! For a long time, we had an XM parked beneath It never moved and just gathered dust. I really wanted to take it for a drive! Pierre Tissier had been doing wacky Citroen XM to produce stretched limos, cargo carriers, In 1993 the hydropneumatic suspension was fitted to the new smaller Citroen Xantia. This helped improve the harshness of the hard And in 1994 the car got a light restyle, making There was a dashboard update, and the iconic allow space for a driver's airbag. The suspension was redesigned to reduce roll, But most noticeable was the adoption of a on the recently introduced Citroen Xantia Power was increased on the turbocharged petrol in the 50-70mph acceleration range. But despite the refresh sales continued to In 1996 the weak headlamps were updated, but It wasn't worth the expense to produce right were now down below 1,000 a year! Citroen did a deal to assemble the XM in fully assembled cars. But the Chinese economy was just starting to spend on a high-priced luxury car. 1997 brought side airbags to improve safety, now 23 years old. The XM would be fitted with the newer ESL It had slightly less horsepower and a slower at least it was a lot more reliable! Citroen was already looking to replace the bells and whistles. As it was 1998 it would be called the "multimedia" want in those days of dial-up Internet. It had an advanced GPS navigation system, wireless keyboard, plus internet connectivity, All with sumptuous leather seating. Peugeot 605 production ended in 1999, and Citroen ended up selling over 300,000 cars, couple of years of release. Its predecessor, the CX had sold over 1M cars. The XM's successor, the C6 debuted at the a 2001 release, but it would take until 2005 Citroen had no large car, and that would those customers back. Citroen had expected the XM to sell 160,000 realistic sales figures of just 20,000 a year, around 23,000 cars over 8 years. PSA refocused Citroen around more standard staple into the 21st century. By this time mass market manufacturers were and Vauxhall/Opel in 2003. They were buying up rival Scandinavian car luxury car market, both ultimately failing. But like many older Citroens, the XM is staging People love that magic carpet-like hydropneumatic Will it become a classic like the DS or the When I research videos for cars made by non-English English sources that give the whole story, In this case a lot of French sites. My "C" grade in O-level French means I and some of those translations are quite frankly Feel free to pause the video now if you too A big thank you to all my Patrons for supporting To get early advert free access to new videos, supporting me using the Patreon link below button to get notified of new videos. Thanks for watching and see you in the next