Thank you. It's a real pleasure to be here. I last did a TED Talk I think about seven years ago or so. I talked about spaghetti sauce. And so many people, People have been to ask me questions about spaghetti sauce, which is a wonderful thing (Laughter) but it's proven to be less than ideal over seven years. And so I though I would come and try and put spaghetti sauce behind me. (Laughter) The theme of this morning's And so I thought I would tell a story about someone who made one of the most precious objects of his era. And the man's name is Carl Norden. Carl Norden was born in 1880. And he was Swiss. And of course, the Swiss can be divided into two general categories: those who make small, exquisite, expensive objects and those who handle the money of those who buy small, exquisite, expensive objects. And Carl Norden is very He's an engineer. He goes to the Federal Polytech in Zurich. In fact, one of his classmates who would go on to break small, expensive, And he's a Swiss engineer, Carl. And I mean that in its He wears three-piece suits; and he has a very, very small, and he is domineering and narcissistic and driven and has an extraordinary ego; and he works 16-hour days; and he has very strong feelings and he feels like a suntan and he drinks lots of coffee; and he does his best work sitting in his mother's kitchen in complete silence with nothing but a slide rule. In any case, Carl Norden emigrates just before the First World War and sets up shop on Lafayette Street in downtown Manhattan. And he becomes obsessed with the question of how to drop bombs from an airplane. Now if you think about it, in the age before GPS and radar, that was obviously It's a complicated physics problem. You've got a plane that's going at hundreds of miles an hour, and you're trying to drop towards some stationary target in the face of all kinds and all kinds of other impediments. And all sorts of people, moving up to the First World War tried to solve this problem, and nearly everybody came up short. The bombsights that were available were incredibly crude. But Carl Norden is really And he comes up with this It weighs about 50 lbs. It's called the Norden Mark 15 bombsight. And it has all kinds of levers and gadgets and gauges. And he makes this complicated thing. And what he allows people to do is he makes the bombardier visually sight the target, because they're in the Plexiglas and then they plug in the speed of the plane, and the coordinates of the target. And the bombsight will tell him And as Norden famously says, &quot;Before that bombsight came along, bombs would routinely miss their target by a mile or more.&quot; But he said, with the he could drop a bomb into a pickle barrel at 20,000 ft. Now I cannot tell you how incredibly excited the U.S. military was by the news of the Norden bombsight. It was like manna from heaven. Here was an army that had just had experience where millions of men fought each other in the trenches, getting nowhere, making no progress, and here someone had come up with a device that allowed them to fly up in the skies high above enemy territory and destroy whatever they wanted with pinpoint accuracy. And the U.S. military spends 1.5 billion dollars -- billion dollars in 1940 dollars -- developing the Norden bombsight. And to put that in perspective, the total cost of the Manhattan project was three billion dollars. Half as much money was spent as was spent on the most famous of the modern era. And there were people, strategists, who genuinely thought was going to spell the difference between defeat and victory when it came to the and against the Japanese. And for Norden as well, this device had incredible because Norden was a committed Christian. In fact, he would always get upset when people referred to the because in his eyes, only God could invent things. He was simply And what was God's will? Well God's will was that be reduced to as small And what did the Norden bombsight do? Well it allowed you to do that. It allowed you to bomb only those things that you absolutely needed So in the years leading up to the U.S. military buys 90,000 of these Norden bombsights at a cost of $14,000 each -- again, in 1940 dollars, And they trained 50,000 bombardiers long extensive, months-long because these things are they're not easy to use. And they make every one to swear that if they're ever captured, they will not divulge a single detail of this particular device to the enemy, because it's imperative on this absolutely essential And whenever the Norden bombsight it's escorted there by And it's carried in a box And the box is handcuffed It's never allowed to be photographed. And there's a little so that, if the plane ever crashes, and there's no way the enemy The Norden bombsight is the Holy Grail. So what happens during Well, it turns out In practice, the Norden bombsight can drop a bomb into but that's under perfect conditions. And of course, in wartime, conditions aren't perfect. First of all, it's really hard to use -- And not all of the people who are of those 50,000 men have the ability to properly Secondly, it breaks down a lot. It's full of all kinds and gadgets and ball-bearings, and they don't work as well in the heat of battle. Thirdly, when Norden he assumed that a plane would be flying at a relatively slow speed Well in a real war, you can't do that; you'll get shot down. So they started flying them And the Norden bombsight under those conditions. But most of all, the Norden bombsight to make visual contact with the target. But of course, what happens in real life? There are clouds, right. It needs cloudless sky Well how many cloudless skies do you think there between 1940 and 1945? Not a lot. And then to give you a sense of just how inaccurate there was a famous case in 1944 where the Allies bombed And the chemical plant comprised 757 acres. And over the course the Allies dropped 85,000 bombs on this 757 acre chemical plant, using the Norden bombsight. Well what percentage of those bombs do you think actually landed inside the 700-acre 10 percent. 10 percent. And of those 10 percent that landed, 16 percent didn't even go off; The Leuna chemical plant, after one of the most extensive was up and running within weeks. And by the way, all those precautions to keep the Norden bombsight Well it turns out that Carl Norden, as a proper Swiss, was very enamored of German engineers. So in the 1930s, including a man named Hermann Long who, in 1938, gave a complete set of the plans So they had their own Norden bombsight which also, by the way, (Laughter) So why do we talk about Well because we live in an age where there are lots and lots of Norden bombsights. We live in a time of really, really smart people running around, saying that will forever change our world. They've invented websites They've invented some kind of this thing, that will make our world forever better. If you go into the military, you'll find lots of Carl Nordens as well. If you go to the Pentagon, they will say, &quot;You know what, now we really can put a bomb inside a pickle barrel at 20,000 ft.&quot; And you know what, it's true; But we need to be very clear about how little that means. In the Iraq War, at the beginning the U.S. military, the air force, sent two squadrons to the Iraqi desert equipped with these that allowed them to see And their mission was remember the Scud missile launchers, those surface-to-air missiles that the Iraqis were launching The mission of the two squadrons was to get rid of all the And so they flew missions day and night, and they dropped thousands of bombs, and they fired thousands of missiles in an attempt to get rid And after the war was over, as the army always does, and they asked the question: how many Scuds did we actually destroy? You know what the answer was? Zero, not a single one. Now why is that? Is it because their weapons Oh no, they were brilliantly accurate. They could have destroyed from 25,000 ft. The issue was they didn't know The problem with bombs and pickle barrels is not getting the bomb it's knowing how to That's always been the harder problem when it comes to fighting wars. Or take the battle in Afghanistan. What is the signature weapon of the CIA's war in Northwest Pakistan? It's the drone. What is the drone? Well it is the grandson It is this weapon of devastating And over the course of the last six years in Northwest Pakistan, the CIA has flown hundreds and it's used those drones to kill 2,000 suspected Pakistani and Taliban militants. Now what is the accuracy of those drones? Well it's extraordinary. We think we're now at 95 percent accuracy when it comes to drone strikes. 95 percent of the people That is one of the most in the history of modern warfare. But do you know what the crucial thing is? In that exact same period that we've been using these drones with devastating accuracy, the number of attacks, of suicide attacks against American forces in Afghanistan has increased tenfold. As we have gotten more and more efficient in killing them, they have become angrier and angrier and more and more motivated to kill us. I have not described I've described to you the opposite of a success story. And this is the problem with our infatuation We think the things but our problems are much The issue isn't the accuracy it's how you use the bombs you have, and more importantly, whether you ought to use bombs at all. There's a postscript to the Norden story of Carl Norden and his fabulous bombsight. And that is, on August 6, 1945, a B-29 bomber called the Enola Gay flew over Japan and, using a Norden bombsight, dropped a very large thermonuclear device on the city of Hiroshima. And as was typical the bomb actually But of course, it didn't matter. And that's the greatest irony of all when it comes to the Norden bombsight. the air force's 1.5 billion was used to drop which didn't need a bombsight at all. Meanwhile, back in New York, no one told Carl Norden that his bombsight was used He was a committed Christian. He thought he had designed something that would reduce the toll It would have broken his heart. (Applause)