- [MrBeast] You guys spammed on Twitter, Reddit, all So I made it happen. Today, we will be And we put 'em in the hole. Now we need mulch. Put the mulch around the tree, and we hydrate it. And there we go. And again. Hole, tree, mulch, water. And before we go any She's a tree planting expert. Will this tree grow to be big and healthy? - I'm gonna look and and it doesn't pull out (triumphant jingle) - Only 19,999,980 more trees. Let's go! (all cheer) - Oh yeah. - Oh, very sturdy. - You could tug on this with a rope and it wouldn't come out. - Chris, I need help. Can - Massage your tree? - I can't get it out of this pot. - Dude, it's like rock solid in here. There you go. - So talking to trees - Huh? - Grow! What do you want - Grow. - Do you see the sky? It's so beautiful. - You're gonna be a house (hands whacking) - You got toughen these trees up. Look at this. No movement. So the reason we're spacing is so the roots have to grow out and they don't have to compete. - It's kind of weird to put 'cause it's grinding up and spreading it around them. - Bro. (upbeat music) - All right, well, it's started to rain. At least now we don't No, but seriously, we wanna and a little bit of - If a tree falls in the woods, and no one's around to hear Yes. It's still a tree. - [Cameraman] Plant a tree - Hold on, I've gotta - Oh okay. - Why are you mad? - What is this? (bells dings) - It's a hole. - Look at this tree! Look. You see that? (man screaming) (upbeat music) - After planting all day, we only managed to plant 300 trees. - Which is less than 20 - I put out a tweet and coming here tomorrow to plant trees. - I think I've got an idea for a drone. - So I haven't mentioned this This is his channel. He used to work at NASA, He does a lot of cool things. He's gonna try with the drone, and we're gonna try with people. - Play to your strengths. - May the, the... alright. It's day number two and we (crowd cheering) And now we're gonna try to So step one is we need to - Can I have a fist bump? - Oh my God. - Here's your tree. - Russell. - Look at all these people. We're easily gonna hit 20 million. (electronic upbeat tune) And now it's time to begin. Let's plant the trees. (crowd cheering) He already planted it. - You're doing great. Do you need help? - If you would like to help, go for it. - Dig right here, seems - The hole's too big. (dramatic music) - Tree review. See the tug test? You don't want any or the tree won't survive. What are these people doing? That's a solid tree. - That's a solid boy? - Okay, good. Whoever planted that, amazing. (upbeat music) Make sure you want to do a donut. Can I believe in you? Thank you so much for helping How'd you hear about this? - Oh, I saw the tweet. Had to hop in. - Ooh. Not bad. Thanks for helping with my tree, man. - Of course. - Nice to meet you. - I was honestly like, I have to do this. This is a once in a lifetime opportunity. - We're gonna get to the 20 mill, right? - Oh 100%. No doubt. - Thank you. - Interview conducted. Look at all these people. Let's do a tree test. The way you know if they did a good job is if you can pull on it, - You're killing it. - [Cameraman] How many trees - I have dug 473 holes. - Really? - How many did you dig? - Hey you, digging. - I don't know. How's it going? - It's good. It's good. - It's pretty fun to plant some trees. - It is pretty fun to plant some trees. - You know. - Earth does a lot. - Earth does do a lot. (upbeat music) - Do a little tug test. Oh, she's nice. Oh, she's nice. We just need some- - That's a good tree, man. - Dude, thanks. - There we go. - He gets a high five, you know, whatever. - The last tree. - As you can see, there Now, we actually grabbed So here's the drone Look at it. It's empty. And here's the drone shot now. - Yes, it's quite extra. We had to. Yeah. - Cool. Unfortunately, despite having we came nowhere near close But I don't wanna let you guys down. So I devised a plan where we can actually but I need your help. We partnered with the largest nonprofit tree planting organization But we need your help. Every dollar donated, they Here's a dollar and I donated it. - Another dollar, another tree. - Here's $10 and I just donated it. (bell dings) This is $30 and guess what (bell dings) Even Chandler can do it. - Another one. Another one. - Yep. - And another one. - Arbor Day and their They've planted hundreds they'll make sure they have and they genuinely do care. If you donate a dollar, something like this ends up in the ground. And given enough time, this Now one thing I want to address. I personally haven't always been the most environmentally friendly. We've burnt the box for it and we've done many other dumb things. And a lot of you might be of That was basically someone But that's not how it works. We genuinely need all the help we can get. And honestly, I've done everything I can. I got a bunch of fans together and we planted thousands of trees. Me and mark have invested into getting this all together. And I'm personally planting AKA a hundred thousand dollars donation. I've literally tried my And now it's your guys' turn. You guys have been and spamming my mentions on Twitter telling me to do something. And now I wanna see that same energy. We only have one earth and it's important we take care of it. Recently, lots of not so great things have been happening to forests and people just keep making for retweet activism and not Which is why we created teamtrees.org with the help of the Arbor Day Foundation. This is your chance to make a difference. For every dollar you or at teamtrees.org, a And the Arbor Day Foundation are really good at what they do. These trees will have an extremely high rate of survivability. Please donate now. Don't push it off till This is our chance to Teamtrees.org, donate there or donate using the donate Thank you. (bell dinging) (bomb exploding) (man screaming)