What is your English level? Beginner, Intermediate or Advanced? Let's find out! Today I am going to test your English level Hello, guys! I'm Kate and in this lesson we are going your level of English. I will give you questions divided in three and advanced. I will show you the question, then you will If you need more time you can pause the video, And please don't forget to count the number Also I'm gonna explain the grammar and vocabulary answer was wrong. Now let's start the test. The first ten questions are for the beginner 1. Which sentence is correct? A) How many butters do I need for this recipe? How much butter do I need for this recipe? C) How much butters do I need for this recipe? The correct sentence is option B: &quot;How much Why? Butter is an uncountable noun. We cannot say 'butters". That's not correct. And we cannot say - many butters. We use MANY with countable nouns like apples, In other words, we use many when we can count apples. We use much with uncountable nouns like sugar, I'm going to explain this rule later in The next question Which sentence is correct? A) She enjoys spending the day in the mountains. She enjoys spending the day in the mountain. C) She enjoys spending the day on the mountains. The correct sentence is A: She enjoys spending In the mountains means a general area. We are not talking about one specific mountain; When we are talking about a specific mountain, For example - there's a house on the mountain. In the mountain is not correct because this Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) She gave her book to him. B) Him gave her book to she. C) She gave his book to he. The correct sentence is option A: &quot;She gave In this sentence, &quot;she&quot; is the subject pronoun, is the object pronoun. Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) There is a lot of furniture in the room. There are a lot of furniture in the room. C) There is lot of furnitures in the room. The correct sentence is option A: &quot;There is Why? The verb &quot;to be&quot; in this sentence is used an uncountable noun. We cannot say there are because furniture And it' s not used in the plural. We cannot say furnitures because that's There're some groups of uncountable nouns Coffee Tea Salt Silver Plastic Air Gas Oil Wisdom Love Happiness Nature and Weather: Rain Snow Sunshine Thunder Abstract Nouns: Time Space Truth Beauty Peace Health and Well-being: Health Happiness Sleep Various: Money Advice Luggage Equipment Furniture Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) They go to bed usually at 9-30. B) They usually go to bed at 9-30 C) They go The correct sentence is option B: They usually In English, the standard word order for a A SUBJECT + A VERB + AN OBJECT Here we have a sentence- They usually go to We know that the subject comes first - They BUT! The word &quot;usually&quot; is an adverb of frequency, in a sentence. It is used to indicate a regular action. So we put it between the subject and the verb. Then we have A PLACE - to bed In English, time expressions are generally So, &quot;at 9-30&quot; is correctly placed at the end Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) Yesterday I walked to the park. Yesterday I walk to the park. C) Yesterday I had been walk to the park. The correct sentence is: In this sentence, &quot;walked&quot; is the past simple For regular verbs, the Past Simple is formed Here we have a marker - the word yesterday. When we have such markers as - yesterday, weekend, night), the day before yesterday, Let's move on to the next question Find the correct answer - Yeah, B) I'm having a salad The correct option is C - I'll have a salad But when do we use will and when do we use When we talk about the future plans we use When we're talking about today, tomorrow, I'm working today. I'm working tomorrow. I'm working this week. Or I'm going to work today. I'm going to work tomorrow. I'm going to work next week. We use will when we make a fast decision. When we decide in the moment, we use WILL. I decided right in the moment what I want So I'll have a salad is the correct option Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) She started her job last year, in April. She started her job last year, at April The correct option is A April, in May, in June. Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) He is the tallest man I've ever seen. He is taller man than I've ever seen. C) He is the most taller man I've ever seen. The correct sentence is: A) He is the tallest We have an adjective - tall. There's a comparative form - taller and We use than when we want to compare one thing me. Superlative adjectives are used to describe of a quality (the tallest, the smallest, the In this sentence, &quot;the tallest&quot; is the correct We cannot say most taller man, that's not Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) Can you explain me this rule? Can you explain to me this rule? The correct option is C. We use the verb explain to mean 'make something about it'. We cannot say explain me. We have to say - explain to me with a direct object and a prepositional phrase Could you explain these numbers, please? Could you explain these numbers to me, please? Great job, guys! Now we have finished all the questions of How many correct answers do you have? If you have eight or more correct answers on answering the questions of the test to But if you have less than eight correct answers And that's not bad. You can practice more and more and improve Now we're going to get to the intermediate Intermediate Which sentence is correct? A) I have read that book three times. I read that book three times. The correct sentence is: In this sentence, &quot;have read&quot; is the present an action completed in the past with a connection Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) Watching movies is one of her favorite B) Watch movies is one of her favorite activities. C) She likes watch movies. The correct sentence is: A) Watching movies Option A uses the gerund &quot;watching&quot; as a noun A gerund is a verb in its present participle Gerunds are formed from verbs by adding ING: talk - talking; write - writing. For example, Her hobby is writing short stories. Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) The teacher encouraged the students to writing essays every week. The teacher encouraged the students to continue every week. C) The teacher encouraged the students continue essays every week. The correct sentence is: A) The teacher encouraged writing skills by writing essays every week. To encourage means to help someone feel confident to someone to do something: us to ask questions. We need to put infinitive after the verb - encourage. But why do we use the word "practicing" We cannot say "continue practice". That's incorrect. Here we have the verb to continue. We can say continue to practice OR continue "Continue to do" means "start doing whereas "continue doing" means "to carry In this sentence, &quot;practicing&quot; is the gerund an ongoing action. Option A uses the correct form of the gerund Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) Who's bag is this? It is Anna's bag. Whose bag is this? It is Anna's bag. C) Which bag is this? It is Anna's bag. The correct answer is B who's? They sound the same but they have a different The word Who's is a contraction - who For example, Who's coming to the party? In this case, the apostrophe doesn't show It's a contraction. Whose is a pronoun and it shows possession. Whose bag is this? It's mine. Or it's hers.. The question "Which bag is this? " is But it doesn't show possession so in this Imagine you are in a room with three bags, You are curious to know which bag they have, The person holding the bag can respond &quot;This zipper.&quot; Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) If I wouldn't have missed my flight, I B) If I didn't miss my flight, I would be on C) If I don't miss my flight, I will be on The correct sentence is: If I didn't miss my flight, I would be on Option B uses the correct past tense in the past situation in the main clause. The second conditional uses the past simple if + past simple, ...would + infinitive here's the link so you can watch it after Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) The employees should have finished the B) The employees must be finished the report C) The employees have to be finished the report The correct sentence is: A) The employees This means that it is recommended or expected the report. We use the construction Should have done to Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) We have a 30-minutes meeting scheduled B) We have a 30-minute meeting scheduled for C) We have 30-minutes meeting scheduled for The correct sentence is: B) We have a 30-minute meeting scheduled for Instead of saying &quot;30 minutes meeting&quot;, we This is because we use a form that combines minutes&quot;, with a noun, like &quot;meeting&quot;. Compound adjectives are two or more words a noun. The combined form is called a compound noun, For example: a two-door car, not a two-doors A two-hour class A 26-mile run A three-week journey 8. Which sentence is correct? A) Learning a foreign language takes a long B) Learning a foreign language takes long time of time language takes a long time uses. When we talk about the amount of time required etc.), time is usually uncountable. How much time do we need to paint the walls? (NOT How many time do we need...?) Hurry up - we haven't got enough time. The project was a complete waste of time. We don't need an article here. In expressions like a long time or a short noun. It took a long time to proofread the work. Learning a foreign language takes a long time. Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) I don't like milk, cheese and butter. I don't like milk, cheese including butter. C) I don't like milk, cheese or butter. The correct sentence is: C) I don't like Conjunctions like &quot;or&quot; are used to connect functions to express alternatives or choices. Let's have a look at the sentence. I like milk, cheese and butter. Here we use AND. The sentence is positive. When we say I don't like milk, cheese or It's a negative sentence, we have to use In this context, OR is a negative "AND". For example - I never drink beer or wine We use or instead of and because the sentence Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) Where is the man left his smartphone? Where does the man left his smartphone? C) Where has the man left his smartphone? The correct option is C) Where has the man Here we have the Present Perfect Tense. We know that Present Perfect is formed with The verb &quot;has left&quot; is in the Present Perfect The Present Perfect tense is formed using singular) or &quot;have&quot; (for other subjects) along In the sentence &quot;Where has the man left his used because the speaker is describing an left his smartphone) with a connection to at the time of speaking). Is left or does left are NOT correct Now let me know how many correct answers do If you have eight or more than eight correct So that's amazing! Keep going with the rest of the video and Now it's time to move on to the advanced This part is gonna be tricky, so get ready.Let's 1. Which sentence is correct? A) Despite having a busy schedule, I always food. Despite to have a busy schedule, I always healthy food. C) Despite I'm having a busy schedule, I eat healthy food. The correct sentence is: make sure to exercise regularly and eat healthy We use despite (or in spite of ): + verb + -ing (the Gerund) Despite the rain, we enjoyed our camping holiday. Despite breaking his leg, he has to go to Despite the fact that he had no money, he The next question. Let's move on to the next question Change the sentence using inversion: B) The team of athletes is excited to compete. C) The athletes' team are excited to compete. Answer: B) The team of athletes is excited to compete. The correct option is B because &quot;team&quot; is that refer to a group of things or people, birds. Class, family, group, staff, army, council, So the team should be treated as a single This means that it is always referred to with to multiple individuals. In this case, the verb &quot;is&quot; is used correctly Let's move on to the next question Which sentence is correct? A) The children had been playing outside for B) The children was playing outside for hours C) The children had played outside for hours The correct answer is A: A) The children had their parents arrived home. had been playing is the Past Perfect Continuous participle. This tense is used to describe an action that and was still in progress at that time. In this sentence, the action of playing outside and was still ongoing, so the Past Perfect Let's move on to the next question Not only, she, to speak, English, but, also, The correct answer is Not only does she speak Here we have the advanced grammar complex Inversion means that we have to switch the Not only+verb+subject+verb, BUT subject + Not only am I a teacher but I'm also a performer also didn't even apologize for forgetting Let's move on to the next question Task: Choose the correct sentence from the use of Future tense. A: By next year, she will have been studying B: By next year, she will have studied for C: By next year, she will study for 10 years. Correct Option: B the Future Perfect tense and is used to describe We use the future perfect simple (will/won't that will be completed before a specific time The phrase &quot;by next year&quot; specifies the time Let's move on to the next question Complete the sentences with the correct forms She met all the _____________demanded, so (REQUIRE) Let's move on to the next question Task: Choose the correct sentence among the A) If only I had known about the concert, B) If only I know about the concert, I would C) If only I knew about the concert, I would The correct sentence is A) If only I had known &quot;If only&quot; is used to express regret or sadness In this sentence, the speaker regrets not desire to have gone. The past perfect tense &quot;had known&quot; is used be changed, and the past modal &quot;would have to the concert. Let's move on to the next question Choose the correct sentence among the following A) I wish I had remembered to bring my umbrella, B) I wish I would have remembered to bring my C) I wish I remember to bring my umbrella, The correct sentence is: A) I wish I had remembered in the rain. In English, the past perfect tense (had + or wishes about something that has already The phrase &quot;I wish I had remembered&quot; is an used to express regret about not remembering We cannot say (&quot;I wish I remember&quot;). That's not correct. Let's move on to the next question Complete the sentences with the correct forms We try to be ____________ to the needs of Correct Answer: We try to be RESPONSIVE to Responsive is an adjective that means reacting Let's move on to the next question Choose the correct sentence among the following A) I'm going to work on the project as soon B) As soon as I will finish my lunch, I'm going C) I'm going to work on the project as soon The correct sentence is: C) I'm going to lunch. Here we have a time clause. In the main part we use the future tense, of the Present group (Present Simple, Present future tense. I'll text you as soon as they inform me. I'll answer you as soon I've finished I'll call you as soon I'm leaving work. So the option C is correct. Well done! If you have all the answers correct in the level! Congratulations! I hope you've enjoyed this lesson. Don't forget to let me know your level and comments below. Thank you for watching! Bye!