From multi-million dollar airplanes that were of dollars squandered on programs that produced mistakes. 8. BLUE DEVIL AIRSHIP During the War in Afghanistan, a massive reconnaissance the United States Air Force. The airship's primary purpose was to capture and then deliver the data to ground troops. The Blue Devil was equipped with advanced day and night video cameras, communications capable of monitoring several square miles An onboard computer would be used to analyze to ground analysts and accessible to troops. The 370-foot-long blimp was 1.4 million cubic an altitude of up to four miles, for up to With a final price tag of $211 million, the 14, 2011. But she never flew, and those hundreds of drain. Instead of becoming airborne, the Blue Devil inflated with helium and tethered to the ground After encountering some issues meeting the maiden flight was pushed back to April 2012. Technical issues such as overweight tail fins contributed to the delay. In June of that year, after tensions arose that built the airship, regarding its projected After five years were spent bringing the vision to fruition, the Blue Devil was placed in In its order to Mav 6 to discontinue work performance" and "recurring failures to for the cessation of the project. The Inspector General of the Air Force determined the Blue Devil's surveillance system was Furthermore, a former Air Force General was Air Force because he allegedly tried to keep 7. EXPEDITIONARY FIGHTING VEHICLE Also known as the Advanced Amphibious Assault or EFV, was an amphibious assault vehicle Dynamics during the 1990's and 2000's. The 38-ton "swimming tank" was essentially into an assault vehicle and was intended to service in 1972. Conceived in the late 1980's, the envisioned transition from the water to the beach without It was scheduled to be deployed in 2015, with and superior firepower compared to its predecessor. But the program was canceled in January 2011 intensifying political and economic pressures Having already cost $3 billion, the projected at $15 billion. Gates's controversial decision to end the strategy. He had previously questioned the practicality capability of modern adversaries to fire missiles The official reasons for canceling the project, and the "poor reliability demonstrated during In the meantime, the Marines resolved to rely while the Pentagon worked to come up with to the canceled EFV. 6. ALENIA C-27J SPARTAN The future seemed promising for the C-27J chosen for the U.S. military's $600 million In September 2008, the United States received In total, the Air Force ordered 38 of the per plane. On January 26, 2012, after less than four the production line, the Department of Defense military's C-27J's. Included among the reasons for this decision capacity" and - surprise, surprise - "budgetary When the first planned retirement date of taken out of service and shipped to the boneyard The retirement of the aircraft came so shortly Force hadn't yet received all the C-27 J's go to the boneyard once they came in. At the time, the government was in its second to agree on a plan for the upcoming fiscal Luckily, there is some good news - eventually, where they'd been kept in near-active condition, the U.S. Special Operations Command. 5. AGENT ORANGE You've probably heard of Agent Orange, the U.S. military during the Vietnam War to destroy by the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese Army. Between 1961 and 1971, over 20 million gallons across 4.5 million acres in Vietnam, Cambodia, Ranch Hand. Out of those herbicides, Agent Orange, which the deadly chemical dioxin, was the most commonly of lethal substances used throughout Operation Agent Orange is perhaps best known for the Vietnamese people and U.S. servicemen and psychological and neurological problems, birth It's also linked to type II diabetes, nerve dysfunction - to name just a few. These health issues are perpetuated by the For more than four decades since the war ended, consequences have remained controversial and During the '80s, a Supreme Court lawsuit chemical companies that were involved in the was settled for around $240 million dollars. In 1991, certain health problems suffered financial responsibility and were covered into law by President George H.W. Bush. The ill effects of the chemical are even more Vietnam and the U.S. have gone back-and-forth regarding the American government's financial and the necessary massive clean-ups for ridding of the damage is estimated at around $300 In 2012, the U.S. government finally started 4. 1968 THULE AIR BASE CRASH On January 21, 1968, an American B52 Bomber sea near northwestern Greenland, one of the Human error was to blame for the crash - a a heating vent, causing a fire. When the smoke became unbearably thick, the crashed 700 miles above the Arctic Circle, Denmark, once a strong ally of the United By carrying the powerful hydrogen bombs through of Denmark's nuclear-free zone policy, which Moreover, the fjord the plane had crashed The warheads had broken open during the accident, contents - luckily, they didn't detonate. Denmark demanded that the debris and anything ice, be gathered and relocated to American A clean-up effort codenamed Operation Crested despite one nuclear warhead having never been This helped heal relations between the U.S. In addition to covering the costs of the clean-up, Danish citizens who had assisted in the effort 3. BIKINI ATOLL CONTAMINATION Between 1946 and 1958, the U.S. detonated the Marshall Islands. Native residents of the island were relocated The scientists and military authorities running residents that they'd be able to return Things didn't go as planned. When the islands the residents had been relocated ensued and ongoing aid was required. Meanwhile, the soil and water at Bikini Atoll the island uninhabitable. A neighboring atoll, Rongelap, was evacuated engulfed in fallout. In the early 1970's, the American government and permitted the residents to return. But they had to leave again in 1978, after them to ingest high levels of radiation. Eventually, the U.S. compensated the islanders million for their displacement and for the Then, in 1988, the Marshall Islands Nuclear $2 billion in land damage and personal injury The fund ran out in 2012, and the U.S. has despite being called on by the UN to help Bikini remains uninhabitable and much of the carried out there by the U.S. are directly 2. CONTAMINATED WATER AT CAMP LEJEUNE From 1953 to 1987, tap water at Marine Corps with toxic chemicals. Soldiers and families living there drank and concentrations of chemicals ranging from 240 Over 70 toxins were discovered in the water, and dry cleaning solvent. The improper disposal of chemical waste that to be a main cause of the contamination. The federal government finally investigated In 2012, the Janey Ensminger act was signed for the medical care of people affected by The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention diseases, including liver cancer, kidney cancer, to the water. To date, over 850 former residents of Camp totaling nearly $4 billion. The true extent of the damage will never be base are spread out all over the world, but been poisoned. The Environmental Protection Agency placed coastal land on its list of Superfund sites The base remains a Superfund site to this 1. FUTURE COMBAT SYSTEMS Launched in 2003, Future Combat Systems, or Army. Well, it was supposed to be. The program's vision included a battlefield along with new brigades equipped with high-tech This supposedly "ambitious and far-reaching" The vehicle-development portion of the project incorporated into the Army's next modernization To many, the abandonment of FCS symbolized of the intended effect and set the Army back FCS was just one of several projects of its at the time of their cancelation. These programs totaled some $32 billion altogether, wasted money. The next time you splurge a little, just remember, Hope I didn't scare you too much! Be sure to subscribe and see you next time!!