[MUSIC PLAYING] It's Rasheed. And welcome to the &quot;Made Hope you had a great week. And undoubtedly, it's been a week or someone took a picture of you, or and people could see In all these cases, there's going on to capture what you look like. Now, it turns out, not all everyone just as nicely. If you have a darker do a worse job representing you. That's a problem that needs sorting. And that's what we're talking Within Google is a team that is leaving capture everyone fairly and accurately. I wanted to know more about their work. So I'm glad to introduce works on initiatives like Real Tone. Please welcome Florian Koenigsberger. [MUSIC PLAYING] Florian, thanks for joining. Florian: Thanks so much. I'm really excited for this. Rasheed: So tell us what And how did you end up Florian: Absolutely, there are so many I guess, I'm fortunate I came to Google as an I was a bold intern. Shout out to my classmates I just had a run-in with one of them nine years strong. Rasheed: Amazing. Florian: And I entered the APMM program, where I had the good fortune Play team working on mobile gaming. I moved to Brazil. I worked in our Sao where the team tolerated of ads marketing in South America. And I then returned to New York to work partnerships and influencer marketing businesses before the journey that has Tone, where we had this question almost for Google to orient itself around actively fought racial bias in the everyone, of course, hearkening with dignity and And so today, I'm fortunate to lead Initiative, exactly in that spirit. Rasheed: Well, first there are many places like Google, where under a decade, and now We have this internal page that the mission statement is of Googlers. And yours indeed is image equity. Apparently, it's very But can you explain what Florian: Absolutely. I love those little mission statements. It gives you such a window into how Rasheed: Right. Florian: I would think know we're going to talk as a subsidiary of this image-equity fair and accurate and authentic in our camera and imaging tools. And I say it that way because the where we'll spend a lot of time of the surfaces that involve and computer vision that have a consumer And the reason this is because, especially we experienced a really where you basically existed to And so the ability for to faithfully and accurately was your representation in the world. Rasheed: Sure. Florian: And I think I don't know when we'll ever say that But as we enter the next I think that hybrid model has remained. And so people still really do mostly And we still see that there are huge to faithfully represent somebody in Rasheed: So most people would think that is not of high enough There's not enough megapixels, or the But if you talk about image equity, it itself has a sort of Is that the case? And how did that come about? Florian: I appreciate you for seen in response to the sort of raising their hands that a camera itself could be racist. But I think this is an important across the company in all of our to remember that everything And it's built with an intention. And it's built by somebody. And someone has an inherent bias, And so what we found is, hearkening of film emulsion technologies by Kodak, developed, they were really only tested white or had lighter skin, after presumably one of the first white Shirley. What we then found was, as the reason that some of were developed more inclusively was It was about the fact that wood manufacturers could in their product photography a dark chocolate and a milk chocolate. Rasheed: Right. Florian: I won't to name different types of woods. I'm born and raised in New York City. And I can't claim to be particularly Rasheed: Sure. Florian: And so when we computational photography, smartphones, These are built tools by we know that we are still out racial and ethnic representation. This is a conversation at the beginning of this process. If you are somebody that does not and have not experienced that we can sometimes or the way the camera then you might not self-select to And so this was an exercise in the shoes as a team who are living with this experience, but with every computer vision And then really asking it would take to close those gaps. [MUSIC PLAYING] Rasheed: Today's guest is a his time to improving cameras. But not in the way you think. Florian Koenigsberger's work isn't It's about making cameras means to portray everyone accurately, or what they look like. Together with Googlers as you'll hear, also with many Florian is on a mission. And he's just getting started. Please enjoy our conversation. So we already mentioned that we introduced a while ago. Maybe not everyone knows what it is. So, Florian, could you briefly And maybe the mistake I also made feature, which it probably isn't. Florian: Absolutely. So it's a question that we get often. And I'm always happy to because I think even for consumers, are the component parts helps people wrap their minds worked another way in the first place. So first to your question Real Tone is a family of technologies in 2021 and that we've leveraged to Photos as a product, tools, our filters, and our a more fair and accurate and dignified especially those with darker skin of those historical biases. Now, what does that actually look like? Let's break this down, One thing to understand about especially on Pixel, is that everything that there is a face in the image. You have to know that there's be able to make certain beneficial the way they ought to be seen. And so we made improvements namely to be able to detect especially faces with darker skin Let's say a backlit scene And we have examples where once a face in that image, say in an example that face before this project, you come into play. And that gets into the next set of One core piece of this is auto of the color tuning in an image. So does something look too cool? Does something look too warm? Does it look just right? Not to make the porridge analogy here. And the auto white balance was informed by, as was all of with external experts to Google. So I'll go back to this question How do we orient ourselves around The next natural question was, whom We recognize that even we weren't at the level of that we felt was required to So we went out to what's of international photographers, all who have deep and accurately rendering and who have been And we gave them our tools. And we said, go into the Tell us what's not working. And something that I always obviously, there's a technical learning different nuances about be more complimentary for darker skin. For example, not automatically assuming it should be brightened to improve it. There's a lot of rich And actually as a camera, need to respect that and leave it where But there was also a cultural We had experts who would come in and for example, the idea that, there's an attention to sure that skin looks rich and moist. And understanding that, our camera to wash people's skin out There was also a lot about why images mattered so much. Sometimes we think about and a sort of leading But going back to our images affect the way that They almost establish who you are I remember I had a college photography makes the world appear And I had to sit with that for a minute. I'll say it again. Photography makes the world appear I think the essence of that is saying, before we see it with our own eyes. And it is triply important that and with dignity, even for the myriad images that So those expert partnerships of how we got to some of these I know I already spoke to auto exposure. But if we look at that question There's a tendency to just bump you want to see more But what we actually learned no, we have to really And sometimes contrary to what a given in the industry might say, what leave that tone where it is. It's actually important that we and not feeling like the camera to so-called look good. So auto white balance, auto exposure, There's another remarkable We had one of our engineers, I think, by this mission and to develop an original worked to reduce the impact of after the fact of capture. So stray light, if you think about they're going into our pockets. We're putting fingerprints It's by no means an ideal condition unless somebody is really vigorously by the way, I think this is so cool. And I can say this because We do have a feature in Pixel that if it senses that there's the lens, which I think is amazing. Because as a photographer the number one thing that would phone pictures is if they before they took a picture. Rasheed: That would help a lot. Florian: It's remarkable how quality for most people's pictures. So you have three examples there. I think there are more. We could go into them as time allows. But I wanted to start with those. Rasheed: So seems tricky to from a highly-diverse community to and what the end photo looks like. It seems to me, it could also be where everyone is happy. So how do you make sure is perceived as an improvement Florian: Absolutely. That question of And it's also a complicated because the curse of trying is that you can never really And you can do the best that you So going back to this earlier point with these photographers, I think an extraordinary photographer of Houston, Texas, or Jomo Fray, a of New York. Write that name down I think that's going going to remember for generations. We basically used these experts So if we know that you've produced work of how our communities want to look-- I think of Joshua Kissi's really bringing out the rich Then we know that we from a reliable, trustworthy says people have already that these folks are making their work. How can we get closer to that kind of and stylized? Because ultimately, as you said, And you want something that and doesn't look overly And of course, there is more to do here. I think when we come to what does the is continuing to investigate places I never talk about this And nobody on our team would. This requires a continuous of where things are we might still not be Rasheed: Yeah, I definitely want But before I do that, Florian, we talk a lot about AI put it in the hands of all our users. So it sounds like AI has quite a role Does it indeed show up in the Florian: Yeah, this is as I'm sure anybody who's been on the knows. I had a catch up with one of our because I think the company what are the definitions that we're all rallying behind, One example of AI showing up in the that I would point to between what we refer to as our called Frequent Faces that So starting with the we have a tool that helps us where on a spectrum of locate a given person's skin tone. And the reason that this is allows our auto white balance for a more accurate, faithful, of that skin tone. So you start there. And then you go, OK, if I'm that a certain face is showing up let's say it's my phone, for example. And I happen to be pretty vain. And I take a lot of selfies. If I turn on Frequent Faces, then with a higher frequency than any other. And I want to be clear from This is not the same thing It's not the camera saying, we and we're making an It's just, we know that we've And we're going to make an without knowing who that face is. Rasheed: Sure. Florian: So as the camera starts say over the course of several hundreds of pictures of myself. Some taken by me. Some taken by other people across a What happens is, the skin-tone from that Frequent Face data OK, I've now seen this face across And I know that this is a face that on the frequency that it's showing up. So I can start to deliver even more over time based on its frequency. So you're seeing the relationship and this feature, have the option of turning on or off-- I think it's off by default, but you to use artificial intelligence and faithful experience in the camera. Rasheed: That's amazing. I thought Frequent Faces would only help put the right person But there's a lot more to it than that. Florian: Exactly. Rasheed: That's really great to know. So looking at the long term, How are you working to make it better? Florian: Yes, the future. One big consideration for me and our beyond Pixel. Obviously, as a company that we are deep believers in the have to buy into a specific to feel like you can Rasheed: Sure. Florian: And so I mentioned We've already started There was some really cool work in the filter set that's available that a number of the latest made in partnership with that I mentioned earlier. And I think it's always honest it's always important as Googlers I was not a big fan of our pre-made especially as a photographer. I'm used to going into and having a lot of nuance and really getting into an image. But what I found is, since this on almost every image because they've done such a brilliant to the warmth of skin, and the brightness of enhances those images And I've gotten wonderful So that's one first step, I When we look at the Android ecosystem there are a lot of of the other phone makers we can start to share more of what I think we've intentionally been in getting to Real Tone, breaking down some of the Because candidly, if you're and you can already see obviously some of the tuning are specific to Pixel based on our in the phone. If you understand the lanes or it already gives other a really meaningful starting point to am I delivering a fair experience? Where are there opportunities Rasheed: So at the very least, the Real for other smartphone manufacturers. But could it be even more Florian: Absolutely, there are limits to of course. But there are some considering that Android about how we vet what counts as and how we might improve some of what does a camera have to be able for example, across to be able to be certified Of course, there are video are an important piece of this as well. Thinking about something where to our earlier conversation about we're on a video conferencing tool. And I can say from what there are varying levels that our computers really starting to think up the funnel. Where are the places where impact, affecting the largest number of in that funnel? Of course, part of the reason is because there are so dependencies, from hardware tooling to How many processes can run at the But this is one of those going to be a little bit slower Tone launch on Pixel. Rasheed: But I'm sure the end result probably bring it to new places, it and seeing the results. Florian: I certainly hope so. Rasheed: Yeah, absolutely. Now, Florian, we close every episode [MUSIC PLAYING] How can our listeners get Or how can they be more inclusive Florian: That's a beautiful question. So a couple of things. First, I'm going to hearken I have found, if folks are that it really does allowing the camera to learn a little And again, not which specific are appearing more frequently leads I can say that as somebody who have a range of different skin tones. That can really be helpful. My father is a white German man. My mother is a Black Jamaican woman. My brother is a little So we've really got that On the question of how to be more I think if this is your first that folks with darker skin might have a different I would give that a google. Rasheed: Sure. Florian: There is a lot of has been published by about ways that you can improve your tonal range, especially might have somebody with with really dark skin. There's a beautiful that goes into the history and some of the racism built into I think that's foundational reading. And if I could give people one shifted my lens, pardon is the &quot;Vision &amp; Justice&quot; guest-edited by Dr. Sarah Lewis. I think that that should in America and, But it is a deep examination African-American contributions to And it really helps people a whole other side to this that the technology industry, I historically paid as much attention to. That could paint a really around the world. So those would be a couple of my tips. Rasheed: So in other words, read up. I think that's a great way to close out. Thank you so much, And looking forward to see what Florian: Thank you so much. It's been an absolute pleasure, Rasheed. Thank you. Rasheed: Well, I've heard but it just hits differently It's hard to understate how much work when it comes to fair representation. So I'm glad we have Florian Just googling Real Tone will teach you a lot about the topic. And there's a lot to explore. Thanks for listening to this episode The next one is out next week. So if you're not subscribed yet, or whatever you call it in your you never miss an episode of Thanks for listening. Talk to you next week. [MUSIC PLAYING]