We've looked at the villains from studios but it's finally time to rank the baddies From Space Jam to The LEGO Movie, I'm Brad with WickedBinge, and this is At the very top of our countdown, we have the Smallfoot! The Stonekeeper is at the bottom look at his "crimes", he really isn't a villain. the film's story, he's not out to conquer the he does his best to protect his village from all conflict with the film's heroes. While he does like trying to destroy the heroes, all of that and his people. Beyond that, after his plan is works to become a better person, being one Going from one reformed villain to another, Otherwise known as President Business, this Will corrupt politician, leader, and businessman, all his plan in the first film is to use a mysterious everyone in Bricksburg forever. Lord Business his path to victory. He will hunt them destroy them. Clearly, Mr. Business is more but as we said earlier, like him, this CEO the error of his ways, but he even makes making him one of the only villains here to appear for things to be a little too perfect, but due But get ready, cause we're going back to 1996 for Space Jam, here comes the Monstars! Alternatively led by greedy CEO Mr. Swackhammer, who we'll Looney Tunes and make them the newest attraction them to a Basketball game, the Nerdlucks steal turning them into the maniacal Monstars. In a in the movie. Taking the talent of athletes definitely bad, but it's small potatoes compared the Nerdlucks, much like their two predecessors, their backs on their corrupt boss, make up with to the basketball players they took them from. they aren't exactly the sharpest villains, earning mixed with a tamer set of goals Up next, we have Hunter from Storks! Hunter money-hungry businessman. After one delivery went decrees that no more babies are to be delivered the Stonekeeper, his mission is a noble one, but Stonekeeper did may we add! He tries to kill and the human Tulip after they create a his predecessors, Hunter never learns the error he continues working to defeat Junior and Tulip, him in his final moments. Hunter is our first that's what gives him a leg up over the We return to the world of Space Jam as we look Rhythm! The ruler of the serververse Al-G is an with Lebron James, which makes him the recipient likeness, challenges him to a basketball into being loyal to him for a time. As the film culminating in his trying to kill Lebron, dares to cross him. Out of all the villains we but he falls short compared to others due to being complex or as developed as some other villains It's now time we talk about the animated Kent Mansley! An agent of the United States get to the bottom of what appears to be a case Though he's sent by the government, Mansley this mission. He hopes to use the Iron Giant hardest to stop anyone from finding this out. He further positioning him as the film's main he is outwardly evil, which keeps him but he's still not an antagonist to be treated conniving. In some ways, that actually Get inside the Mystery Machine as we work the one and only Dick Dastardly! Typically Dastardly is determined to enter the underworld to to find all fortunes the underworld may hold, stand in the way of his plans. Whether it's the Dick Dastardly will try his hardest to succeed Dastardly was pretty incompetent, this version rivalry with the Blue Falcon. However, though he's a bit more sympathetic as well. He genuinely how dedicated he is to entering the underworld. but it's obvious that he cares about his partner others here today. However, all the bonding absolute power, and will destroy anyone who even nicer to Muttley in this incarnation Going back to Space Jam, how about we look at its its villain, Mr. Chairman? Yep, we're looking at about control and profit margins like the stands apart from the rest in that he's flesh Medal! And how could we forget, he also wants oppose him he sets out to destroy, making him even touched on. That then begs the question: since what is it he does that makes him more of a think sounds more evil: gluing your entire city, all humans into monkeys? We think it's that last Let's journey to the land of Ninjago for our next Garmadon! The father of Lloyd Garmadon, this dark Ninjago, and spending some quality father-son we can tell that Garmadon isn't your typical that he isn't a bad guy. He frequently terrorizes about disposing of his henchmen. However, he does even if Lloyd is, rather understandably, a little his son tells him he doesn't want to spend time villains from this studio's library lack. And, redeemed by the film's end, which pushes him Though he is redeemed, it doesn't necessarily potentially killed in his many attempts to take of good or evil, one thing is for sure: this is Time to look at one of WB's more obscure by examining its similarly overlooked villainess, Darla is a child star obsessed with fame, fortune, it's not at all surprising that she will and that includes getting rid of any who might choice for the Envy Medal if you ask us! Once Darla Dimple works overtime to prevent begins by banning them from performing to drown them to get rid of them once and tried eliminating their adversaries or wanted the very first individual on this list to have Let's go back to the world of The LEGO Movie for Rex Dangervest! A rogue version of Emmett from closest to him and goes back in time to make sure to pass. That objective alone is reason enough so far, but there's another reason we place him and while that's nothing particularly Rex's obsession with Emmett goes a lot further a big goal in his mission is to make sure otherwise he would not exist. He works ensuring he will become him one day, which shows we've looked at today can quite compare to. last LEGO villain we'll be looking at here, he's far and away the worst there is! His name We're heading back to Coolsville as we look Jonathan Jacobo! A classic mad scientist motivated by a need for revenge. In his case, throwing him in prison. Not only does he want their reputation and morale before that happens. but just a little bit more mad, which is why we goes even further to ruin Mystery Inc. than Rex anchor persona just to slander them! In addition he's out to wipe out Coolsville once and for out to kill as many as possible. Others so far sights set on a particular group, like how Darla on the other hand, definitely puts the "mad" in villains Scooby has gone up against and more Next up, let's talk about Gotham's clown prince exact! Honestly, is it any surprise that the Joker this clown is no laughing matter. he's out to annihilate Gotham and take over he also wishes for Batman to claim he is his with Batman, but very few incarnations have movie does. Further setting this Joker apart Batman save Gotham in the movie's third act, than both other Jokers and other members of LEGO Joker is still the Joker. Though he might not the character, he's still a genuine threat We've now reached our bottom five... Taking Swackhammer from Space Jam. Voiced Swackhammer is the owner of Moron Mountain, an brink of financial ruin. Fueled by a ruthless Swackhammer concocts a diabolical plan: to and transform them into attractions for Moron manipulation, authority, and charisma, crimes ranging from abuse of power to Honestly, that one scene where he tells Michael of those really unsettlingly dark scenes that His ill-tempered nature is evident as he berates in his pursuit of making Moron Mountain the Luckily, in the end, the once-mighty and possibly stranded on the moon, symbolizing Moving from a clown prince to a knight of the Lord Ruber of Quest for Camelot! An animated getting him the Pride Medal, Ruber is out for out on a quest to take Excalibur and use it to world. Ruber is a bit different from a lot of the physically capable. Unlike others, who tend to Ruber is powerful, and a real force to be reckoned fight, which gives him a more threatening aura lust for power is another big reason why he from WB have been interested in taking over few seem to be as competent in doing so as is mostly made up of Looney Tunes and LEGO but it's still a clear reason he has It's time to get microscopic! Yes, our Bronze goes to none other than Thrax from and while that may sound redundant to some, time he enters the body of one Frank DeTorre, already makes him more of a genuine danger but when you factor in that one of those victims obvious villain than the rest of the lot. Sure, he in the end, but that doesn't erase those that he he takes out several of the beings who reside few WB villains to have killed characters on Jones was released, Thrax remains one of the more great reason! He's a villain who will take your Second place sees us come back to the DC universe guinea pig that is the personal pet of Lex Luthor, often emulate their owners. Or, on second thought, dangerous and treacherous as Lex when in reality, turns her back on Luthor, captures the Justice Pets. Do you know how villainous you have to be if she wants to take over the world, as any comic Lulu seems like a villain who could succeed in go toe to toe with her in a straight fight. And League? There's nobody else on this list who has at the top of our list. Still, there is one more Last but most certainly not least, the winner of that sounds incredibly silly, and it is, but when goals, and accomplishments, Scrappy was the about it for a moment. In the span of one movie, releases a demon army, and tries to take villain we've looked at here that had such a it's not too surprising that Scrappy-Doo is said it was their objective to make sure nobody the biggest villain Scooby has ever faced gotten away with it too if it weren't for those but he can at least find peace in Animation has ever given us. Sometimes, being