(electronic beeping) - [Narrator] (sighs) Mario I don't think Nintendo that links them all It wasn't easy, so do me a favor and subscribe Other YouTubers like have attempted the monstrous task of stringing a Super and kudos to them, but I've yet to see one with So time for me, Marcus, to give it a shot. The rules are simple: if Mario is in the game's title or is a central playable Sorry Qix, cut scenes alone don't count. I won't try too hard to shoehorn They take place in a and Paper Mario is a different character. But Jumpman and Mario are the same person according to Nintendo. Okay? 'Kay. Let's give this a shot. The Yoshi's Island Series. When Mario's a baby, a and Luigi along on a delivery route. Suddenly, Kamek comes and knocks sending him plummeting Luckily, it's Yoshi's Island, so eight adorable Yoshi's You can see the whole adventure in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island and it's retelling, Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go. After an epic final boss battle Mario and his brother make But wait, it's the wrong household. Oh come on, the stork had one job. So then, we have Yoshi's New Island, basically a rinse and repeat where Kamek's kidnapping Kamek expands his horizons and attempts to kidnap baby Mario along with Luigi, Wario, DK, but the Yoshi guardians prevail yet again. Now that Mario and Luigi have they're able to fend for themselves and team up with their adult in Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners in Crime. Hey, five titles down already! Only about 100 to go. Military service and carpentry. We don't know a lot and teenage years. Make Super Mario pimple But in young adulthood, Mario joins the military blowing things up in jungle operations. After he returns to civilian life, Mario can't shake the War changes a man. So, he satisfies his in Wrecking Crew alongside As Mario matures, he beyond make things go boom and actually builds in Now that he's making that the Italian charmer attracts the eye of the beautiful Pauline, who That's where Pinball falls in, 'cause Pauline is there with a construction girder. He then parlays this ball-bouncing skill into another industrial gig with Alleyway. Unfortunately, Pauline's namely Mario's pet, Donkey Kong, a large ape that he DK kidnaps Pauline and through various construction sites and a pie factory within Donkey Kong. He has to navigate many more locations in its expanded remake/sequel, Mario succeeds, and although she Pauline doesn't owe the Staying with Mario makes her a target for future kidnappings, so she leaving Mario to spiral First, Mario lashes out further at DK, trapping him in a cage. DK Jr. comes to his rescue, and humbling the carpenter even also retold as Donkey Mario realizes that reminds him of his old muse, Pauline, so he decides to change career paths. Like many young 20-somethings, trying his hand at drawing, music, and animation through Mario Paint. He's only ever good at coloring though, as seen in Super Mario Bros. Eventually, Mario realizes were just lopsided collaborations He didn't really do anything, and figures he's got no artistic Desperate, Mario then with Mario the Juggler, another Game &amp; Watch title collecting nickels and In time, Mario grows sick and returns to his blue-collar roots. Plumbing days. Mario teams back up with in a new exciting trade: plumbing. They start a lucrative business going through sewage systems, flushing out various side-steppers, shellcreepers, fighter flies, and freezies under the streets of New York in Mario Brothers. Finally, Mario starts collecting solid gold coins Mario continues cleaning where he encounters enemies like Para-Goombas and Pokeys. It isn't long before the brothers stumble onto a portal a magic world with ruled by Princess Toadstool. Unfortunately, they arrive by the nefarious King Koopa, aka Bowser. Reminded of his lost love Pauline, Mario channels his military days and goes full Rambo on to save this Princess. During the events of Super Mario Bros., he destroys countless and bricks on his way through eight worlds towards the princess. I include bricks because it turns out Bowser turned many of into these blocks that layer the kingdom. After a lot of collateral damage, save Princess Toadstool. Mario really enjoys this so he retires his plunger and stays in the Mushroom The peace doesn't last long, though. Bowser is stubborn and persistent, so he kidnaps Princess Toadstool again in Super Mario Bros. 2, aka Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. Things are a lot harder this time, but it's no matter to our man Mario. Mario and Princess but both try playing it cool. Mario wants to take this romance slow. He's had some baggage A few months later, for Super Mario 64, Princess Toadstool breaks first, inviting Mario over for cake. She even signs the letter Way to gain hand in the situation, Mario. Unfortunately, Mario Bowser hijacks the castle, and hides power stars needed to get to her throughout 15 worlds So, Mario does what he does best: he gathers up all the stars, thwarting his plan. Once she's safe, Peach finally breaking that romantic tension. Over the moon with joy, Mario heads to the roof of the castle where his childhood savior This reunion inspires Mario to take a little vacation to Lands beyond the Mushroom Kingdom. Mario, Peach, and third wheel Luigi are chilling on a beach in Dinosaur Land. When the brothers turn their back for, I don't know, two seconds, flip, Peach gets kidnapped again! They find a hatching Yoshi egg, and this fresh new Yoshi to save his dinosaur brethren and the princess in Super Mario World, or Super Mario Bros. 4 on The brothers traverse diverse including Donut Plains, Chocolate Island, Valley Once they reach Bowser, they ending what's surely until Sunshine, at least. Totally defeated, Bowser to kidnap the Princess. Nah, just kidding. Shortly after, he scoops her and holds her hostage for the beginning of Super Mario RPG: Rushing to her rescue, Mario arrives in time come crashing through Star sending the princess, Mario, and Bowser careening This is all so Smithy and his Gang can take over the With the Star Road gone, wishes and Mario stands no chance He must travel throughout including the Mole Mountains, to collect seven star Along the way, Mario oh sorry, frog named Mallow and Star Road warrior/doll/future Super Smash Bros. character, please, Geno. Even Bowser joins in on the fight. The enemy of my enemy Later on, Princess Peach joins the roster and proves, hey, suddenly, Mario starts to doubt Anyway, the heroes prevail, restoring the Star Road, If you really, really wanna you can throw them in the Technically, Paper Mario was developed as a sequel to this RPG after all. There, happy? After this exhausting RPG adventure, Mario needs a deep rest. Ever have crazy dreams Well, that's exactly what happens, as Mario finds himself and the now battle-hardened Princess Peach in the world of Subcon. Subcon, subconscious. So clever. This is the world of Super Mario Bros. 2 but the American Super Mario Bros. 2. Subcon also has seven diverse worlds including deserts, sky, and ice. The gang has to battle enemies and a bunch of new bosses, and the big bad Wart whose After stopping Wart, Mario wakes up. So wait, was this all a dream? Let's just say yes. We've already spent way From there, Peach tasks Mario with saving her pals in Jewelry Land. Since his adventures are he insists on riding his friend and using the Super Scope so in Yoshi's Safari. Beginnings of a mogul. So remember how Mario back in Mario Bros.? Well, he never quite stopped, and now he's sitting on a fortune. Gold may be common in but it's still pretty valuable Now that he's a multi-millionaire, Mario decides to pursue his and what better way to blow millions than by funding a Broadway play? As many people now know, is pretty much fully It's a dramatic retelling of Mario's Mushroom Kingdom adventures, complete with hanging set and a red curtain. It's quite a successful show. Think the staging ambition meets the popularity of &quot;Hamilton&quot;. So now, Mario is not only filthy rich, he's more famous than Lin-Manuel Miranda. Mario becomes a household name, and this fame allows him in games like Tennis and Punch-Out. But it wasn't just PR, he He even refereed the heavyweight between Little Mac and Mike Tyson. I know I don't really need to include these cameos as per my rules but come on, it's Punch-Out! But with fame comes a price. With increased notoriety, tabloids begin digging into Mario's past for any skeletons in his closet. And what do they find? A hefty dose of animal abuse. It was a dark time for him, but Mario did lock up The statute of limitations so Mario finds himself convicted by a jury and sitting in front of a judge. Community service days. As punishment, Mario is helping educate the world's youth. First, he develops a learning with Mario Early Years!: Fun with Letters, Fun with For the slightly older audience learning about computing he embarks on qwerty adventures, Mario Teaches Typing 1 &amp; 2. Then, to create hype for learning about geography and history, he creates two more in Mario is Missing and Mario's With his service complete Mario decides to treat himself and Peach to another vacation, Unfortunately, when he arrives, a mysterious Shadow Mario has made a mess across the whole Island. Coupled with his past convictions, Mario's immediately framed as a vandal and finds himself on trial once more. He must clean up the island all while bringing via 120 Shine Sprites At least he doesn't have to he's got the E. Gadd developed F.L.U.D.D. to make cleaning and platforming a breeze. Turns out Bowser Jr. is When he makes his debut, thinking Peach is his own mother. From there, it's rinse and repeat as Mario fights his way to Corona Mountain and takes down Jr. and Upon returning to the Mushroom Kingdom, Bowser decides to recruit the help of his now battle-hardened son once more in kidnapping the Princess via New Super Mario Bros.. Despite it being bring Mario, of course, rescues and Bowser retreats to But there's a brand new threat for the now experienced team of Mario, Luigi, Peach, One of Mario's fans creates which a bunch of Rabbids steal after messing around with They open a portal to sucking up our Mario friends and launching a desperate, for control of the fungi land in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, complete with the threat of growing inter-dimensional Team Mario prevails, Spawny, Bowser, and the Megabug, eventually restoring the continuum with help from robot Beep-O Mid-life crisis. With another few heroic and with thousands of more Mario decides it's time to play, a lot. He invests millions with his entourage, now including the likes playing every sport imaginable. Every countless iteration of Mario Golf, soccer with the Mario Strikers racing adventures with every Mario Kart, over budget competitive, lavish parties with the Mario Party series, and other baseball titles, Mario Hoops 3-on-3, and NBA Streets V3, Mario Sports Mix, Mario Sports SuperStars, you get the idea. We're talking about dozens of titles. Hell, he even fit in a few Olympics with the Mario and Sonic at But eventually, this endless He's just doing the same things How can he add a little excitement to make himself feel alive? Simple: Fight Club, aka Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Melee. This becomes more and more popular, as seen with the increasing roster. And the brothers take in Subspace Emissary, the adventure mode of Super Smash Bros 4 is more but the gang all comes together during Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. After all this excitement, Mario decides to take with baking in Yoshi's Cookie. Back to adventures. With Mario's hand in so many cookie jars, constantly fighting or playing sports, Peach begins to feel a little neglected. As Mario and Luigi ditch her to go on a coin hunting adventure, Peach contacts Bowser's Koopalings to stage a kidnapping for This sets off New Super Mario Bros. 2, which backfires for Peach. With coins everywhere, Mario's He uses this spare billion to invest and grow an even bigger empire, turning the cutthroat world of real estate into a competitive game against his buddies in Fortune Street. Still determined, Peach then tries to pull the whole with Super Mario Run. By this point, Mario has he can do it with one hand. She then allows herself to be kidnapped by Goombas via air cannon at a fair. Really? Goombas? Come on, Peach, no one's Anyway, Mario has to chase setting off the events Reverting back to a cake caper, we get it, Peach likes cakes, we have New Super Mario Bros. Wii where a giant cake stuffed with Koopalings arrives in time for Peach's birthday. Little does Mario know ordered the darn cake herself. She gets kidnapped again, and Mario, Luigi, and embark on a co-op adventure After succeeding, Peach recruits Bowser and The Koopalings once more, now with a giant mechanical arm, for one more 2d attention-seeking attempt in New Super Mario Bros. U. Mario, Luigi, and the but unfortunately for the Princess, this brotherly, co-op bonding between Peach and Mario. Brotherly rekindling. See, all of these rescue missions have made Mario and stronger than ever! Since they work so well together, the brothers vow to spend even First, they head out alongside Bowser under the guise from Cackletta in Mario They then journey through meeting up with their baby selves in the beginning of our Soon after, they venture a la Magic School Bus, Luigi then gets the Subcon treatment when he and Mario visit battling Antasma and Dreamy Bowser with use of the Dream Stone. Finally, they unleash the into the Mushroom Kingdom and back into their magic As jealous as ever, to invite the brothers over for a picnic. Luigi hopes she made lots of spaghetti. While they're busy, she lets set up seven Koopa hotels, and eventually hide the princess in one. And so, the stage is set for Hotel Mario. Mario and Luigi find Peach in the largest, most conspicuous hotel, and she rewards both with a kiss, just to make Mario jealous. Out-of-this-world kidnappings. When her most elaborate Peach goes full Beastie Boys, During the star festival at the start of Super Mario Galaxy, she puts herself in a vulnerable position to be abducted again by because he takes her to space. After Kamek launches Mario into the void, he finds himself at To save Peach, he must and countless star bits to restore power to the observatory. Once the star ship is up and running, Mario travels to the to take on Bowser once more. There, a giant black hole eventually collapsing into singularity, creating a supernova. Remember when Mario was just a plumber? Fortunately, Rosalina allowing Mario to basically relive the whole adventure again, this time with Starship Mario plus Yoshi in Super Mario Galaxy 2. Once she's grounded back home, Peach lures Bowser back offering flight abilities Bowser sucks it dry and setting off the events Here, there's similar to those found throughout the galaxy in the previous adventure, but Mario can use Super Leaves too, so he swiftly kicks more Bowser butt. Peach realizes that her aren't the best way to win over Mario. Sure enough, she figures to spend time with the man is just like she did back in Super Mario RPG. She joins Mario, Luigi, and Toad as they save the Sprixie in Super Mario 3D World, all while the entire cast Bowser takes a brief to finally cure his tone-deafness, stealing the four music with the help of Waluigi, ridding the land of its musical powers. Mario defeats him in a dance off at the end of DDR: Mario Mix, but he feels bad about Mario knows the plight more than anyone else so he turns Bowser's castle with the mystical keys, igniting the music in everyone's souls and inspiring them to dance. But despite the song in his heart, Bowser is still miffed at the She's been stringing him along, using him just to get Mario's attention. Bowser's had enough, so he with the help of the Broodals He also kidnaps a Bonneter named Tiara. They're hat beings with the Mario teams up with to save her and Peach. The hat/plumber duo travel such as the Cascade and Metro Kingdoms, collecting power moons to fuel their ship before tracking down Bowser on the moon. After King Koopa's final defeat, Mario is suddenly again probably because he sees his ex Pauline is doing quite well without him. He makes a proposal of sorts, pathetically competing with but Peach sees how ridiculous Fed up, Peach finally sees and decides to tour the leaving Mario to ponder Farewell Mushroom Kingdom. Well, it sure as hell so he decides to save he knows from his leisure days: Daisy. He abandons the Mushroom Kingdom in favor of Sarasaland taking on the alien Tatanga. It's a short, fun romp, but it gave his old greedy buddy Wario enough time to take over Mario Land. Yeah, Mario was rich enough I probably should've Mario has to find the six golden coins that act as keys to his own castle spread through different zones like Tree Zone, Macro Hubris much? Before reclaiming his throne from Wario in Super Mario Land 2. Wow! Don't worry, Wario goes on to star in Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3. Sitting upon his throne, Mario knows that he's still unfulfilled. He uses his unlimited resources to create Mushroom Kingdom levels to remind him of his glory days with Super Mario Maker 1 &amp; 2. He even uses his successful toy line brand to ruffle up his past rivalry with DK for kicks in the Mario or maybe it's Donkey Kong's grandson? It's this whole family tree thing. We made a video about it. Anyway, playing puzzlers with is another fun way to pass the time. But surely, there's more to life. Why not go back to school? He channels his inner Dr. Alan Grant and becomes an archeologist, as chronicled in Mario's Picross. Still not ambitious enough, Mario then embarks on a journey You know that he can afford it. He spends the rest of his in the Dr. Mario series. Mario eventually retires, allowing him to spend his twilight days playing checkers and backgammon And here's the best part: Mario did all of this when he Let that sink in! And hey, if this timeline doesn't sink in, then let me know how you would string Two head canons are better than one. Oh, and be sure to subscribe to The Leaderboard while you're at it. After all, all players are welcome. I've been Marcus, thanks for watching! (lively techno music)