I need to hit 100 platinum's by the end of the year, and if I fail, we'll have to delete my PlayStation account forever. Losing all of my saves, memories, and of course, the 84 platinum trophies I already own. And with just a little over two months left, I'm starting to get worried as time is running out fast. So because of that, I'll be going for three platinum's in a single video for the first time ever on this channel, and we'll be taking on the best Spider-Man games ever made on the hardest difficulties they have to offer, including Spider-Man remastered and all of this DLC. Spider-Man Miles Morales and Spider-Man two for a grand total of 172 trophies. Sadly, though, this grind would end up pushing me to my absolute limit, causing me to lose my mind so bad you would think I became venom. Kicking things off with Marvel's Spider-Man remastered were quickly introduced to Peter Parker and suit up to go take down kingpin in the first boss fight of the game, getting it done with ease and securing our very first trophy. Knocking down kingpin. First trophy. Let's go dude! We then headed to the lab where we were introduced to Peter Parker's mentor, Otto Octavius, who was currently working on a new prosthetic that would change the world. But after numerous failures and the city breathing down his neck, it was clear he was under an immense amount of pressure that would end up changing him later in the story. Until then, I started chipping away at the lab puzzles here, which would help us get a trophy later. Before going back outside and working on a few side missions after fighting a group of enemies amongst our next trophy Spider Sensible or performing ten perfect dodges, I then headed down to feast where we would meet the owner, Martin Lee, someone that would be a major player in the story to come. And of course, aunt May, who was celebrating her five year anniversary there. Oh, in that, let's go investigate a disturbance nearby where we will be introduced to the demons before running into MJ, Peter's former girlfriend and the bane of my existence throughout this entire trilogy. And that's because of all the painfully boring stealth missions you have to do with her. Including this first one here where I had to stare at paintings for a few minutes. We then got the remaining demons and grabbed one of their masks, later bringing it to Martin Lee, who started acting really suspicious all of a sudden. Peter, listen and mask. It's. It could be connected to dangerous people. Mary Jane might want to find a different story if she thinks she's in trouble. I don't know why I take the risk. I'm thinking nothing of it at the time. We headed back out to the lab, where Otto got shut down completely out of spite by his former friend and now mayor Norman Osborn, which would set him on a path of revenge that there was no coming back from. In the meantime, he sent us on our way while he figured things out, and moments later we get a call from Uri about an ongoing bank robbery. So we went straight there and took out shocker for the last time, earning the trophy shock and all. After mopping up the floor with him, later exploring New York a bit more and grabbing another two trophies randomly or traversing across the city rooftops and completing a level one traversal benchmark. Let's go baby! Then, after finding the first of many black cat collectibles, I got the trophy cats out the back. Later, we would continue the story as Norman Osborn gives a speech honoring Officer Davis. And it's here. The demon's plan was set into motion. And. From there, we will take control as Officer Davis's son, Miles Morales, after saving his mom's life, wouldn't get so lucky with his dad finding him dead on the floor soon after. As we also learned here that Martin Lee was the leader of the demons all along. A week later, we would attend Officer Davis's funeral and mark our next story Trophy of the game before venturing out again to do a few more side activities, unlocking the trophies and stay down for completing a level one combat benchmark, followed by amazing coverage for activating all surveillance towers. We then picked up the story again where, after clearing out a bunch of demons, got introduced to a private security group led by none other than Silver Sable. After that rough introduction, I took a break from the story and just started getting a bit boring, marking a ton of trophies along the way, including Born to Ride for, riding the subway five times, walks and Found for finding prize backpacks and arachnophobia, Mia for performing 75 stealth takedowns before finding the first Taskmaster challenge, which would prove to be some of the more difficult activities in this Platinum Run the Bomb challenge. I did here first wasn't so bad though, and I quickly got the trophy short fuze for achieving spectacular or better, and after giving it another shot and getting the ultimate score, also got the trophy master's education earlier. I then went on to do a few more and after finishing a drone challenge next, which required me to follow a drone as fast as I could while swinging through its orbs about the trophy spy hunter Paul quickly above the trophy fists of fury for getting spectacular or better on a combat challenge. Later, I headed back to the lab and wrapped up all the puzzles there, which got me the trophy. A bit of a fixer upper heading to one of Fisk's hideouts after and unlocking the trophy ace the base for completing all the objectives there. I then started knocking out all the side missions to grabbing another trophy here. After taking out tombstone in a very long boss fight. Tombstone takedown? Let's go before going to save some college students in another side mission that had one of the most unfair fights at this point, especially because of the brutally hard difficulty I was playing the song. What is what me rock. Girl. Oh no no no no Q. That was hard for no fucking reason. Schools. God, at least we got a trophy for that. With that done, I had just one side mission left and after finishing it, got the trophy friendly neighborhood Spider-Man jumping back into the story again afterwards, we would need to find a professor at a Halloween party. But after we beat us to it first, we witnessed firsthand just how insane his powers actually are. You recently began working with someone at an Oscorp laugh. Tell me his name. Joe's overly. Apparently the show's not him. Oh. It's name doctor Morgan Michaels. Thank you. No. Oh my God, dude. Oh, it's a little dark. He would, of course, escape after that, but not for long, because later we would find him again and chase him through the streets of New York. One of the most epic set pieces ever. As we try to rescue the doctor in charge of the Devil's Breath experiment that Lee was after to get revenge on Norman Osborn, put on the mask, become one of us. Thanks, but no thanks. One way or the other, you will join me. The shadows are sworn to me. I break. What? You can come back to the light. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I love you. Oh! Later in the story, we will have to find the devil's breath. Which Lee unfortunately grabbed and will have to play as MJ again for what might have been the fifth time. Now. Why is there so many of these examine Oscorp displays? My god bro, I am playing as Mary Jane Watson looking at fucking displays in a Spider-Man game. What are we doing? What's the control of Spider-Man again? After defuzing the bomb, we would wipe out the remaining demons here before finally cornering Lee in a subway train and taking him head on. If you're sick, let me help you. Mark. Oh my God, bro, you fucking up! Oh! Now I don't want to hurt you. Nothing can hurt me. Not anymore. No. Oh! There we go. That hurt you with Lee, aka mr. negative. Finally locked up. Went to go check on Otto, who has been hard at work on a new pair of robot arms and neural interface. We're against Peter's wishes. He slots the corrupted chip back in, and that will, of course, not end well. You have no idea what you're in for. Then, moments later, when we get picked up by Yuri and learn that somehow all the prisoners in raft escaped after a coordinated attack. So we immediately head it over, and after putting down all the prisoners we possibly could and unlocking another trophy for reaching a 100 hit combo, things will get a lot worse for Spider-Man. How do you like my new suit? Dashing. Where'd you get it? It's an exclusive club. Oh, I. Got. Dude said not to kill him. Good idea. In fact, we don't have to do this at all if you don't want to be. Definitely one go. Well, I love Gunther. Oh. Oh. Where's number six? There he is. First and final. Stay out of our way. Sheesh. It's crazy. Man. The six assemble! Oh, no! All these years, these allies. It's over. Norman. Time to give them the truth. Oh, God. I forgot all this, man. It's not good. After barely surviving that, we had to start cleaning up this mess with all the supervillains now free and most of New York infected by the devil's breath. But first I started knocking out some more side stuff after clearing out another base. Got the trophy grinding all the way from maxing out one benchmark type. The longer the trophy. The scientific method for crafting my first upgrade and Ninja for getting spectacular better on a Taskmaster stealth challenge. With all that done, it was now time to take down the Sinister Six, starting first with electro and bolster. Yeah. I let's go up. There it is. Grounded. Let's go defeat Electro and Vulture, followed by Scorpion and Rhino. I'm gonna tell my buddy. Oh, please be done. Finally. Oh my God, bro, you know what Octavius will do if he finds out you failed? I failed, yes, you freak! Go! Let him fight! Here. Perfect. Another time. I hope you boys want to play nice. Sting and smash. Let's go baby! Defeat Scorpion and Rhino. And finally, Mr. Negative for the second time. Come on, please. Be it. Thank you. Hahaha! Staying positive. Let's go baby. The only person left now was Doc Ock, but he wasted no time in finding us first. Instead. No. Oh! Oh my God, bro! Holy shit! Damn! What? My sub. Look at that blood, dude. Hey, did you see? Where's my. They say she could go at any moment. Oh, this poor is going to tear me apart again. No, that's not it. Maybe it's this one. No. Bruised, bloodied and defeated. At this point, we had to find a way to bring down auto. So we stopped by the lab, where Peter would have dropped a new suit in record time and immediately headed to where Norman Osborn was being held hostage for our final showdown against Doc Ock. Yeah. Kind of move. What, are you sure that's up? There you go. Break it, break it. Oh. Oh. Such a disappointment. Parker. I tried to warn you, Peter, but you didn't listen. You. I won't let you win. Got him. So he was just playing stupid the whole time. Much to me. Not more than it means to me. Oh. 010, it's so epic, dude. Oh. I'm sorry. This is so good, guy. I'm not tired. Oh, are. Oh. For, I don't, oh. If you want to change the world, you have to be the kind of man who can make the hardest decisions. I can't agree more. Yeah. With Doc Ock down in the antivirus in hand, we headed back to feast, where we would get the bad news that there wasn't enough to cure both. May. Right now. And produce enough afterwards to cure everyone else, leaving Peter with the most difficult choice of his life. You're going to be okay, man. I've got the cure right here. Take off your mask. I want to see my nephew. Hey. This is going to crush me again. You knew? I've known for a while. I never wanted you to worry. I did, and I am so proud of you and Ben, too. I don't know what to do. Yes. You too. That's. The. Every time. Man. With this story complete, all of New York cured of the virus. And the big reveal that Miles now has powers, too. After getting bitten earlier, we got the trophy in game for completing our three. Oh, quickly. By the trophy. Superior Spider-Man. After maxing out all skills. And I was now free to go for every other trophy left in the base game for finishing every single activity. So I got to work starting with the enemy camps, and I'm like the trophies back in the slammer for taking down every prisoner base, all the Kingsmen, for taking down every Fisk hideout, inner security for taking down every demon warehouse, and finally mercenary tactics for shutting down every Sable outpost. No mercenary tactics. Take down each Sable outpost. Let's go. I then started wrapping up everything else, like R&amp;D for completing all of Harry Osborn's research stations, sightseeing for taking a photograph of every single landmark throughout New York City. Pigeon hunts are for finding and catching all of Howard's pigeons, backpacker for finding all 50 of Peter's old backpacks, cat prints for tracking down black cat. And finally, the big one challenge finder for completing all task Master's challenges, which also meant we could finally take on Taskmaster himself. By home, maybe. Today. I just fill up the building. Master of Masters. Let's go. All I had left to do now for platinum was 100% the entire game, and a bunch of miscellaneous trophies, including overdrive for taking down ten vehicles, sticky and tricky for chaining four tricks together in the air before landing on the ground. Spider man about town for greeting ten citizens with free power for visiting Uncle Ben's grave. Rest in peace. Hero for hire for perching the top Avengers Tower. Snappy dresser for wearing five new Spider-Man suits. A suit for all seasons for purchasing every suit. Science for the win for crafting 15 gadget upgrades for Arsenal. For maxing out all upgrades. And finally hug it out for knocking together ten pairs of enemies with trip mite. Let's go! With all that done, I started working on the Grittiest trophies in the entire game, which required me to complete faction Crimes all over New York, with most districts having 20 crimes each. This meant there were nearly 200 I had to do total, and a grind that would take me almost seven hours to finally get done. But doing so got me the last few trophies I needed, including Neighborhood Watch for completing all faction crimes in one district, I heart Manhattan for 100%, completing all districts, and of course, for greater. Let's go! Spider-Man one is in the bag. Now before moving on to our next game, Spider-Man Miles Morales, I went ahead and knocked out all three of the City That Never Sleeps DLC. The story here was all centered around hammerhead and his mob moving into New York and taking it over while getting rid of rival gangs and wreaking havoc all over town, which all eventually led to this moment where Yuri lost control and her jaw dropped. In less time than that, she said something about fear. How do you feel now? Just take any. Do it. Oh. Oh! Oh, what a cliffhanger. Then in the last chapter here, we would finally take down hammerhead for good after he somehow got resurrected and became a cyborg. Thanks to some help from Silver Sable. And with that, the story was a rat. So I knocked out every new side mission, collectible, base, and prime that was added to all three DLCs, and doing this alongside running the main story back and forth, the main difficulty, and completing a base without taking any damage. I mean the last 24 trophies I needed. So 100% Marvel's Spider-Man for good Spider-Man one is finally done. Main story heists. Turf war. Silver lining. All right, now it's time for Miles Morales with Spider-Man remastered, a rep I immediately got to work on the next entry in the series, Spider-Man Miles Morales, on its spectacular difficulty, which is the name of the game suggest follows Miles this time around and his journey to become the next Spider-Man. The story here hits the ground running, literally as we chase Rhino throughout the city before jumping on him and quickly getting our first trophies of the game like a rhino in China, shot for barreling through every obstacle, and Rhino Rodeo for riding rhino through the entire mall. Then, as Spider-Man jumps in to help, we crash into a flammable tank and have to take on a mob of enemies afterwards. Where trophy of the game for reaching a 100 hit combo for taking rhino horn in our first boss fight of the game, where Miles discovers his awesome new powers. Boom! Venom boy oh my God, it's so good! 000. Oh, God. Okay. You hurt a lot of people. Yeah. With Rhino down, we were then introduced to Simon Krieger, who's the major villain of this game, though we didn't realize it at the time. Leaving the area afterwards and getting the news from Peter that he was going on a trip to Europe, or giving Miles a gift and leaving the city in his hands. We then went to go open the gift with Miles's best friend Janki, which turned out to be a new suit. And I was excited. And so seeing how hideous this new fit actually was, like, seriously, all those amazing suits Peter made for himself in the first game and this was the best he could do for Miles. On the bright side though, at least we got our next trophy for it. From there, I took on the first of many Spidey challenges, which, like the first game, would require us to do numerous combat, stealth, and traversal related tasks and were of this platinum for me. But after wrapping up this first one here, got the trophy punching pixel and with that done, I earned just enough activity tokens to craft my first suit mod, which got me another trophy. We later got home that night and reunited with Miles's old friend Finn, who would be important to the story later in the game before enjoying Christmas dinner with her. Jackie and Miles's mother, who was currently running for mayor. The next day, we would go out and help Miles's Uncle Aaron, unlocking our next trophy. After getting his trains running again before he somehow picked up on Miles's true identity. But luckily he just wanted to help, so we'll see a lot more from him in a bit. Later that night, we went to my mom's rally in Harlem, before I quickly got interrupted by the new gang here in New York, the underground and their leader, the tinkerer, who then took out all the thugs here and immediately headed to the bridge afterwards to confront the tinkerer face to face before witnessing an unexpected reveal. Oh, are you doing. Okay. He's destabilizing it. Just don't trust. Across the bridge. Okay. If. Oh, don't worry, I got you down now. You're. Next stop. This just. Start. Hanging by a thread. Let's go. You know, I know I'm not your enemy. Here we go. What the hell? Where'd he go? After going through all that, Miles decided to reinvent himself. And with that, we finally got some new drip to replace the ugly ass suit from earlier. Later and getting enough activity points to grab my first visor mod, which will knock the trophy look with better eyes. I then picked up the story again as we snuck into a rock sun base before getting stopped by the prowler, who we discovered was Miles's Uncle Aaron. He then helps us find Finn's old phone, but we learn the truth behind why she's doing this, and it was basically to avenge her brother who died because of rocks on and the new energy source they were working on. With that last story mission done, we escaped the facility with Prowlers help and unlocked our next story trophy before linking back up with Finn as Miles and tricking her into thinking we actually wanted to join her cause later coming back to the base as Spider-Man and grabbing the next two combat trophies here after learning the ability to beat them. Dash yeah, there we go from downtown, followed by our next story trophy after wrapping that mission up a short time later. Then while on the next story mission, I get the first two stealth trophies for performing 25 wall takedowns and a 100 stealth takedowns in total, until eventually running into Finn yet again. While. Right. Yeah, I just want to talk. How about we use our words? How bout you stop being so long? It should. Why did she make you feel? Like one good reason not to end you. My mom would be very upset. My ass. Can we just get you on the roof? Freeze! That another trophy? Let's go from here. I took on a few side missions that had opened up, including one where we had to stop one of Kingpin's operations. In doing this, get us a sweet new outfit and our next trophy. At this point in the Platinum Hunt, I just started map clearing as I had almost everything unlocked on the map at this point. Doing this unlock me the trophies cry master for completing all bonus objectives for every crime type wants to swing and die for getting spectacular or better in the traversal challenge. Dodging light for getting spectacular or better on a stealth challenge and spider training complete for completing all challenges once, which unlock the final test and another boss fight for me to tackle, I metaphorically love. All. Oh let's go Pete's first villain. With all the challenges done, I started seeking out all the collectibles and luckily there weren't a lot. So within an hour or two I got the trophies. Five star review for completing all app requests, urban explorers for finding every time capsule, salvage river finding every underground cache, deep cuts for finding every one of Uncle Aaron's sounds, and the very random trophy I'm on a boat for jumping on to this random boat. Oh, I'm on a boat. What the heck? With the boat in southern Chinatown? Okay, this is a random trophy before unlocking a few more combat related trophies, including traps for defeating 50 enemies with a remote mind gadget, invisible spider for defeating 50 enemies while camouflaged from the rafters for performing 25 sealing takedowns over charge for defeating 100 enemies with venom attacks, and finally three more trophies here for taking down all the very frustrating enemy bases to skip hot shots, man, like I'm trying to fight. They're just getting easy pot shots on me. See, dude, come on, I can't even move. It out of here. Hey! Underground. Undone. Oh, my God, we're done with these. Finally, dude, with the last one getting me two trophies back to back because I also completed it without getting spotted a single time. Doing all that grinding also got me a ton of tokens that I quickly used to craft the ten upgrades I needed for yet another trophy. From there, I jump back is the story where we met up with Finn seemingly making peace with her until getting caught by Rhino and the rest of Simon's men. But thanks to another new ability, Miles was able to break free and we started making our escape with Finn. We're moments later, we would eavesdrop on the prowler as Miles realized that his uncle set us up. We then pushed on some more and so running into Rhino yet again for the last time. Okay, I'm gonna take a ride. I think the turn. Here we go. For. Hey! Spotting bulldozer finally defeat rocks on Rhino Creek. That told me how your brother died. Also told me it was your fault. No, no, no. Go to hell. Yeah. Mean. What the hell does not. Screwed up the break up. Well, it got me back to come at me again. I'll kill you. With Finn and Miles relationship now completely in shambles, we had to go stop her before she blew up all of Harlem, but got captured on the way there by the Prowler. Later breaking out of his electric cage and taking him down, unlocking our next trophy family drama. From there, we headed straight for the Oscar Science Center, along the way, experiencing a flashback, unlocking another two trophies one for beating Finn at the rocket mini game, and another once the flashback was over. Once done there, we headed down to confront Finn once and for all. With the fate of Harlem hanging in the balance. There you go. Good. Good. Well. Good. Oh, my. I don't want to fight. We'll talk. After I disable the reactor. Oh! Nice. Finn, look. The reactor still going critical so we won't be able to stop it. No, I am not running away again. Right now. Now? Please be over. Please be over. I can't remember if she dies or not. It's been so long since I played this. But I hope she does. Okay. Good. Yeah. Now. What are you. Back again. It's okay. I can't just let go. I. Let go! I don't know. Hey! Get out of here, kid. We'll take care of him. Who is he? That guy. He's our Spider-Man. Let's go. Ultimate sacrifice. All that was left to do now for our second final was a new game plus run and a bunch of miscellaneous trophies. So I worked on those first. I got the trophies. Socially acceptable. If you're scrolling through the social feed memory lane for collecting all post cards, which, by the way, also got me the trophy. A new home for 100%. Completing all districts best fries in town after visiting Stanley statue. Rest in peace. DJ would be proud after messing around in photo mode and finally never give up after visiting Miles's dad's great. I was now just three trophies away from platinum, with each one being tied to new Game plus. So I quickly started up a new save and got to work. And after 3.5 hours, unlock the trophies, ready for anything for purchasing all suits. Just the beginning for unlocking all skills and finally plus plus for beating the game on new game plus plus plus which means be yourself. Platinum number two Spider-Man Miles Morales is done. And just like that, it was time for the final game of this trilogy. Video Marvel's Spider-Man two, which for the first time ever, had us play as both Spider-Man in the same game, each with their own skill trees, side missions, and activities that I would have to complete in order to get platinum here in. Just like the first two games, I was also going to be playing this one on the hardest difficulty. Spectacular. The story here kicks off as Sandman loses control and starts to destroy New York, which leads to one of the most visually stunning boss fights in the entire series. This is so good. Wow, dude. After walking Sandman up and getting introduced to this game's big, bad Kraven the Hunter, we got our first trophy. And from there would work on cleaning up the entire city after the mess he just made, which included knocking out both the first Sandman memory and the first photo spot, and with the tech parts I got for doing those, got the next trophy after buying and equipping a new suit style. Now, with the few activities done and in the bag, I mainline this story for the next few hours in order to mark all the other side activities in the game, which brought us to the moment where Peter and MJ reunited with their long lost friend Harry Osborn, who was just cured of his very serious illness, and after taking a trip through memory lane with Harry, the stakes were set later when the most notorious villains from the last two games were suddenly captured by Kraven. Oh yeah, Spider-Man let him go! It's crazy! Bro! Spider-Man, I need your help. We later learned that Kraven was capturing these villains in order to hunt them down as prey. When a short time later, he game ended. Scorpion. But this next target being tombstone we ran into at the local fair before he too was captured by Craven's men. And it's here we discovered Harry's new abilities as a result of the treatment he got from his father, Ray. Harry. He would go, hang on. On. First. What are those things coming at you? Doctor Connor said it's some kind of self-learning exosuit. Why did you both have superpowers? Just think about all the stuff we could do to heal the world. Sorry. I guess I still got to figure out how this thing works. We will was keeping tombstone together with Harry and save them, before stumbling onto one of Kraven spaces as MJ after she learned what they were keeping Doctor Connors, who was kidnaped earlier in the story. And yeah, you already know I completely lost it here. You know what this means? Another MJ mission. Because in a game with now two Spider-Man and venom, this is exactly who we want to play as right? Insomniac who would eventually find Connors and free him. But unfortunately, Kraven will catch MJ in the act. Luckily, Peter and Harry came just in time to save her, but sadly it was too late because shortly after losing the cure, Peter would face off against Kraven for the first time and tragically die. Oh oh am not this venomous as they say. Get up! Oh, Harry! Come on. This is nothing. I remember in fifth grade when you. Know. Knocking. You gotta stay awake, buddy. Eat. And here we go. I'll be taking that off your hands now. Good sir. My favorite part. Is what happened? To. Oh, God, I missed this. My favorite gameplay of the whole trilogy. Man. I know. MJ, I'm on my way. A new suit, let's go. Man, it's been a minute since I got a trophy. They're a lot slower on this one. With the wicked new suit in our next trophy in hand, who will later find Kraven again and grab the wizard's cure from him before escaping. And we're now just waiting on word of Doctor Connors location. In the meantime, I started knocking out a ton of activities all over the map as most of them. At this point, we're finally available. I'm walking the trophies my community for wrapping up the musical museum side quest, Seeking Destroy for completing all hunts bases, Brooklyn Pride after receiving a gift as Miles for finishing all the Brooklyn Visions quests, including one for probably the most annoying character in any video game. Oh, maybe you should call yourself the Great Electric Spider. Thanks. I like Spider-Man just fine. New York New York for completing all photo ops, friendly neighborhood Spider-Man for completing all them requests. Grains of sand after knocking out every single Sandman memory Cosigning after finding the last prowler. Ash data Collector after finding the Chameleon's hideout behind the mask for rescuing Mysterio after completing all of his challenges, and finally a new adventure for helping our old friend Howard from the other two Spider-Man games, where we had to find a new home for his pigeons, which of course ended with me crying like a baby. I worked in that factory for 20 years. Later, I've lost my purpose for a while, and then when my wife passed, I lost my heart too. But my birds, he taught me how to fly again. I need your help, Spider-Man finally going on an adventure. But, I want to set my bird free first. Can you take him up north for me? It's their time. Okay, this is it. Your new home. Piggy, you're in charge. Oh, no! Howard! Oh! Hey, Spider-Man. Hey! Sorry, friend of mine. Take all the time you need. If it helps. It looks like he was at peace. He was. He's finally on that adventure with his wife. I'm. A new adventure. Just trust me, dude. Oh my God. Howard. Oh, God. Hit me right in the feels, man. While doing all that, I also knocked a few combat and miscellaneous trophies, including splat, the botching a trick and falling to the floor surge for using symbiote abilities 25 times during Symbiote Surge, black line for getting 25 stealth takedowns from the web line, and resourceful for collecting 10,000 tech parts total, which I was able to turn around and use to get the last of my suit. Tech upgrades for the trophy fully loaded. With all that done, I continued the story again where we would finally locate Doctor Connors, but we weren't the only ones. When moments later, the hunters also showed up and what became an epic chase sequence, Spider-Man. So cool. Time to go, boo boy. No no no, Spider-Man. It's good. He fences. I hang on to. Hey, how are you, bro? Great. I. Do great. Wait. Oh! Oh. You're just. It's awesome. Let's go, man, before he gets too far. No. He's fine. You sure he's got big teeth? So do I. He's not normally like that, right? No, he's never like that. It was clear at this point of the suit was affecting Peter. Some help, but we pushed on anyway until finally cornering Connors and putting him down before administering the cure and bringing him back to his lab, where we learned about the origin of this symbiote suit. But it didn't end well after the doctor told Peter to destroy it, destroy us. Oh. You said it chose me, doc. It makes me a better Spider-Man. With that story mission done, we got our next trophy medicine before heading back home and getting hunted down by Craven's men again, which resulted in another just exhilarating MJ section. But even more importantly, the symbiote controlling Peter became an absolute monster, turning on MJ completely and causing Miles to get captured by Kraven. We then woke up the next morning with Peter having no idea what just happened, and later headed to meet up with Harry. As the relationship between them shattered. You're not yourself. That suit is changing. You suit is the only reason I'm still alive. Yeah, it's pretty great, isn't? Why don't you pop some more pills and see what you really feel? Hey, don't be busting my ass out there trying to save you. And this is what I get. I said, don't try these. I'm the hero here, not you. From there, we would pick up the story again as Miles and break out of his cage, later running into his arch nemesis, Mr. Negative, in a multiple phase boss fight that would result in us getting two more trophies. Overdrive for using the new ability reverse works to pull six or more enemies in at once, and the story trophy another way. After sending we out to go find Peter and give him Craven's location, we headed straight to Craven's mansion afterwards and would finally take him on in what ended up being the hardest boss fight in this entire trilogy. Just who these dogs are annoying man. I thought you wanted somebody who could beat you. You really wanted to be in an unfair way. Show you what I can do. This is unfair. Oh, wait. Come on. Man one me, one me. What are we doing here? Why do you push out and call your dogs on me? Do you know who I am? You're done. He. But you're still back. Trick or treating. Stop him! And weirdo bro. This is just. Just me. Come on. You're a dodge. Those gotta get that timing down, man. Oh, no. God. Give me that. Give me that. Yeah. Let's go, baby. Can't. I know you're hurting, Pete, but you're better than this I know, I know, I know you're. All right. There we go. I was ready for that one. No. Let's go, baby, let's go. Come on. Stronger than this. Here. Me. Oh, good. Oh, I don't want to get rid of this. Girl. Great, Let's go with Peter. Finally himself again. I went out to find the last few spider bots and turn them in for the trophy. Funky wireless protocols before heading to Oscorp to give Doctor Connors the symbiote back until Harry intercepted us. We've got to destroy it. Connor said it was. I saved your life. You won't save my you one kid. I. Know. What I. There he is. There we go. It's gonna be so satisfying. Oh! Leave us alone. Let's go. With New York and complete shambles. Now, we had to stop venom before his symbiote spread. Even more so I immediately got to work on all the new nests that popped up around town and in the process, got another trophy. Armed and dangerous for defeating 100 enemies using spider arm abilities and to the max for fully upgrading all my gadgets before taking on the last for the flame side mission for the Trophy Crimson Hour, which saw Cletus Cassidy get his hands on the symbiote. Clearly teasing carnage for future DLC, the leaked venom game, or maybe even Spider-Man three. I continued the story from there and took down the symbiote version of MJ, which was really satisfying after all of her boring ass missions. Doing this got us the trophy. I quit after saving her. Later, we headed down to the town hall where we would get completely swarmed by the symbiote there, resulting in Peter getting infected yet again. So as Miles and together with Lee, we went into his mine and faced off against even more enemies here, unlocking a trophy for defeating 100 them with evolved venom abilities. Then, after fighting Peter and breaking him free, we would get the sick new Anti-Venom suit and our next story trophy. With that done, the last symbiote nests were revealed on the map, which also happened to be the final site activity I had left to finish, and after taking down the last one, I got two trophies back to back. Picking up the story for the last time, we would head to an underground lab where venom would steal the meteorite and we would learn that there was no coming back for him, as the only way to stop venom and prevent all of this was to kill the host, aka Harry Osborn. So together with MJ Miles and his disgustingly ugly new suit featuring mom pants and tennis shoes headed over to take down venom once and for all. In the dramatic conclusion to this trilogy. I write today. I'm done. Either way, it's left time. No. You know, let's see. The world. Together. And now be. Conquered. Hospital. With Harry now basically a vegetable. Peter seemingly retired and Miles taking over the mantle of Spider-Man. We want to get the trophy, heal the world. And after jumping back into the game once credits finished rolling, I got the trophy. Amazing for reaching max level from here. It went on to finish all the miscellaneous trophies I had left, which included foundational for knocking out all the EMF missions, home run for rounding all the bases, the Big Apple Ballers Stadium, paying ten for performing 30 air tricks in a row without touching the ground. Saw for gliding from the Financial District all the way to Astoria, using only the web wings kitted out for purchasing every super. Peter and Miles just let go for funding. Miles and fin science trophy. And finally, once more with feeling for beating the game again on New Game Plus, which meant we only had one trophy left. So I ended this trilogy the best way I knew how I could look back with a vengeance. You know what you do. Which means after all, the grind. Platinum, baby. All three Spider-Man games on spectacular difficulty are a wrap. Let's go. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, be sure to subscribe and leave a like for more! Don't forget to comment down below which game you want to see me putting them next, and let me know if you like this trilogy format along with what series you want to see me do in the future. Also, be sure to follow me on Twitter to stay in the loop between uploads. And don't so you don't miss a single video. I'll catch you guys on the next one.