(gentle music) - Hi I'm Jacque pepin I always cook Turkey for Thanksgiving. For me it is the best tradition. Actually Thanksgiving is the It is not a holiday because fighting somewhere or some no it is a holiday to to drink, to be married, So this is the greatest holiday. I have a 12, about 12 pound Turkey here. Usually I do it not bigger And what I do first, I'm going Which is a little hard to see but on each side here you there is like a triangle here of this and I have to continue Try to pry it with your finger, index finger and all that. That's it. And you get that thing out, that big triangle here out. As you can see it broke. But I have that triangle here. And that triangle here, which is here. When you are inside there it gives you a hot time to carb. So even the chicken and all that I remove the wishbone here. I have a quarter of water here. I'm gonna put that in there. And I'm going to start my sauce with it. Another thing that I do. I will cut the other drum stick here. (knife pounding) Okay, that goes in there too. The other one I did. What happened is that when this is cooked, it's going to shrink. And as you can see you can see those tendons sticking out. When those tendons comes out easily, your Turkey is cooked. In addition, you remove all those tendons which is makes it easier to eat. I have the neck here, again And in there I have, of course the gizzard which will go also in there that liver is smaller, that and there on when I'm preparing. I saute that briefly and I enjoy that with a glass of wine. This is a special bonus for the chef. Another thing that I do, I feel that in the middle of the leg, it's always the place where So I do a little incision here like this because it's always stays a little red in the articulation here. So I do a little incision that help and actually the same Cutting the articulation Just starting like this, that helps the heat goes into it and it doesn't stay red there. Then salt all over the place inside, pepper inside too. All right I wanna cook, my turkey this way. Breast side up to start. So I will start with, Oh maybe a teaspoon of oil on top, just enough to start the And that will go into the oven, for like 45 minutes at Now we continue with I have the neck here, the This is the start of the juice, the natural juice that we're So you have that in there. I have no salt but I'm going to put in there or maybe two teaspoon of to get a nice color to my brown stock. Eventually this is going to be But for the time being, I wanna bring that to a after an hour we can and so forth and continue with the sauce. Next is the dressing, I have onion, corn, mushroom and two cup of the chicken stock here. As you can see those and it's okay. It'll have more taste even. So I'm gonna put this one cup of corn, four tablespoons of and a good cup of mushroom too. I'm gonna put that in the couple of minutes to And then that will go on with this here. Often they buy a whole corn, I love corn bread and so forth, so this is a cornbread stuffing here. But my wife happened So these are the cornbread stuffing, all season all ready. Plus you can see I have my mixture here. And that goes into one of those package, which had about three quarters of a pound. Okay, this of course You can stuff the Turkey with that. I think it's easier to do it separate. So let's see what we have in there. Okay, my dressing is ready here cover it. And that's good into the I put all of the temperature So that Turkey has been 45 and what I'm going to do Now I wanna cook it, breast side down so it doesn't dry out. Cook it like this and that will same temperature. Of course the bonus for the I have to give some to salt, pepper (bowls clacking) and that's it. I really had a small liver here usually quite larger Saute, the liver should already Otherwise if it's cooked too much that it gets really Yeah so yes like any type of liver, so you sort that briefly. Okay minute about a minute, minute, minute and a half Okay, here I have the special Just pink inside of you can see that. Special bonus when you're cooking. Bon Appetit. Now I sauce the juice rather get the water with the neck and all that. I've cooked for an hour and a quarter. I drain it as you can make sure you have two and a half cup. I need to add a half cup of sauce. And as you see I have a nice So here I have the gizzard, you know then I'm going to cut into pieces and I'm going to put all of that in there. And also in there, I'm putting three quarter three quarter of a cup This will go in the bottom of my pan to finish the sauce there on. But this and that is going to go back, cooked a little longer and I'm going to thicken it. So here we have the gizzard. Now the neck, I will pick up. I have nourished meat, all around from around the In fact very often what I don't do that when I put the neck to roast in it. And it's already between, a fight between my daughter and my wife who is going to get the neck. Okay, but this is good meat. So take your time to remove (bowls clacking) So my mixture has been cooking Remember I have the water that cook the neck, the gizzard all that I have carrot, onion, all the meat that I picked up too. I wanna taste it for salt there. Well it needs salt. Now I can put a bit more depending on the way you want it. Yeah like that it will be And I would thicken that with one teaspoon here, maybe two teaspoon. Any pure starch, whether you use a arrow root, arrow root is very I like potato starch in A pure cast starch and so forth, it has to be diluted with liquid. So here I put a dash of white wine, I take two tablespoons of that, it doesn't really matter. And then you stir it. Be direct. And as you put it in there it will thicken on the contact. I put a little bit and I stir it. Put a little bit and I stir it. Put up the rest of it too. Yeah I'll put the rest of it too. And as you can see now it's slightly oily. Like a beautiful juice. And this is what will go when I finish cooking the Turkey. Okay now my Turkey has been cooking, breast side down for a good hour. So I'm gonna turn it back up again. Here now I know it's really moist. So then I put it back in the to really brown that up beautifully. So this is it, my Turkey is done now. And you can see for example here if I go, take a little bit of the (inaudible). That I think they'll see you out here. Oh there. So those are long (inaudible) here that you can clean up like this. Now I will put my Turkey here, let it rest in a warm place you know. And then here as you can see we have all the beautiful because I have a good pan, thick, heavy, aluminum copper. If you do that in a standard steel pan like that it burns. So this crystallized juice we could glaze. And the process of deglazing Usually you would use To melt all of that stuff. (metal chunking) So that's healthier. I think that I really clean up my pan. I'll pour it here (metal chunking) and that's it. As you can see here i have a clean pan. I have melt all those crystallized juice. That what makes the sauce. So here is my final sauce here. I wanna taste it. I think it was just about perfect. Maybe a dash of salt. Remember that I only Also I'm ready with the Now this is it. Usually I would serve that in the kitchen but you can bring it The first thing you wanna do is to separate that big leg here. As you can see you break it And then at the joint the drum stick and that. And again as i explained you're gonna cut it into pieces like this. If see separate now totally cooked. And some of those (inaudible) And now the thigh here, the thigh I'm gonna cut it Remember this is for 10, 12 people. This is the leg, on each side that I will do this way. For the breast you know Okay. My wife is going to have that part. And here we start cutting down first because I cut hear that will (plates cluttering) And I keep cutting, that's it. I may bring that back against it. If I cut it on each side this way, I fill the sauce on top of it here. That's how I would serve it. But often I will serve it the dressing here, I would put a good portion here. A little piece of the dark meat, dark meat is always my favorite here. And of course a nice piece of the breast. It is hot here. Nice piece of the breast. So here and of course without forgetting the sauce which is going to go all around. anyway my Thanksgiving Turkey. Well or any holiday, I hope you enjoyed it. Thank you and happy cooking. (soft music)