- Hot coffee. Hot coffee, cigarettes, ice cream. (upbeat music) Here I am as a kid. Now I'm a washed up pro snowboarder, dad and curious food nerd, hell bent on new adventures. I'm Josh Rosen. Food and adventure have led me to some of the So we're off on a mission to source all while taking it in through And each adventure ends with a feast. This is &quot;Dirt.&quot; For thousands of years, only the native Ainu to hunt and fish this rugged land. (upbeat ambient music) Modern civilization eventually made its way up from mainland Japan, and western influences The people here are wild and resilient, the seafood is some of and the snow just keeps falling. Welcome to the island of Hokkaido. Hokkaido is the island and we're hitting the ground Sapporo, the city of snow, averaging 20 feet of snowfall a year, more than any other And now we find ourselves deep inside the tunnels looking for a tucked along with my old friend, Rip Zinger. - Man, it's Hokkaido, sick. - If you could have anyone it's Rip. He grew up skating in Tokyo and has traveled around the world sharing his love for - That fun. - Tonight we are feasting with And he's starting us off Ooh, okay. Kenji's mission for this dinner is to give us a crash First dish, Shirako. Translate that to English, cod sperm. Lucky for us, it's in - [Everyone] Hmm. - Oysters, wheat, and dairy are famous on this island. This dish, combining all One bite or two? - One bite. - Next, a simple dish eaten by the indigenous Ainu people. Kenji's grandma's secret And yes, more plump local oysters. (chef speaking in foreign language) This is a lump sucker fish. And now we are going to preserve (upbeat music) First, remove the eggs, add konbu and Kagoshima soy sauce, a touch of rice wine, and (upbeat music) And lastly, a final soup of the lump sucker fish. In Japan, the word centered around respecting Nothing is wasted in this kitchen. (people laughing) Thank you Kenji for this crash Thank you so much. Oh, amazing. (upbeat ambient music) I'm in my happy place, a landscape covered in fresh snow. - Cheese. - [Speaker] Road trip. Road trip. - Snacks have been acquired and so begins our search for some of Hokkaido's best ingredients. We're heading west where farmland is surrounded and the ocean is never too far away. Ah, sweet, sweet island life. You may be asking yourself why we're at a farm in Well, four feet of snow Under this thick blanket of that they grew this summer. Coming in. And the Yamashita's reason for leaving them in the snow (woman speaking Japanese). And you know what's really neat? When buried in the snow, the cabbages convert to prevent their cells from freezing, a defense mechanism and sweeter than ever. I would eat that all the time. Farmers all over Hokkaido have been burying vegetables A simple example of how locals here have turned hardships into opportunity, and in this case, sweet, Thank you. And off we go. (water gushing) The ocean is very much alive up here. (upbeat ambient music) It's pretty cool to imagine that these winds are coming then crossing over the sea of Japan, pushing swell right into I mean, the waves look terrible, but Kate said after we got that I could get some surf time in. Oh, it's a train. (people laughing) So Insane. (upbeat music) One mushy wave when it's 31 degrees out, current ripping towards we'll count it. Surfing in those types of conditions makes you a certain kind of hungry, and I heard about a secret spot. This guy doesn't want you to know his name or where his sushi restaurant is, so we're not gonna tell you. It probably has to do with the fact that the sushi counter and serve some of the most So who does my guy's hair? Woo-hee. Hokkaido's freezing ocean And as we know, fatty fish Thank you for having us. Well, a few things are for certain, cold water keeps the lineup empty, and the sushi insanely fresh. I'm a 45-year-old froth monster child. Face pressed to the window, If I see a hillside, I'm Does this count? (upbeat music) Sorry guys, we can keep driving now. Wait, is that a ski resort over yonder? It's gotta be. Might even be better. We'll come back to that shortly. (upbeat ambient music) A quick backstory on the First, Hokkaido held the a financial boom in the 80s Almost overnight, 700 ski But when the bubble popped in the 90s, nearly 250 of these But Iwanani Resort, despite has managed to stay alive. And the new owners has to running this local ski hill. And that gives us a lot to party about because the only way to is by a handful of snowcats, which pretty much means (upbeat music) - Oh what? - [Group] Bye. - Since the first time that I met Rip, he's been making sure that we are fed and fed really amazing food. - Eat Ride Rad is my philosophy. I want to represent a good eating for the people who skates and surf, and play in the mountain snowboarders. So eat rad, ride rad. - [Josh] Gotta eat rad to ride rad. There's no doubt about it. I feel like that aligns with the ethos of this show quite well. (upbeat music) Low-angle Japow at an empty ski resort, fun for the whole family. (upbeat music) We were told not to be late Maybe it's because the seafood was trying to walk itself off of the plate before we got there. In Japan, there is a It literally means to This mindset of hospitality centering around care is a window into the culture here, we're experiencing this firsthand. (tranquil ambient music) That's Mount Yotei, a volcano in the sky, one of the focal points 80,000 tons of mineral rich spring water flows down this mountain daily. (upbeat ambient music) And you know these resourceful locals aren't passing up the We sure aren't going to best spring water for our final feast. And neither is Mr. Akiyama, whose business is right next (water gushing) For thousands of years, of creative ways to eat soybeans, and this is one of them. Tofu fresh off the press. (man speaking Japanese). Local soybeans are soaked then grinded up and separate (upbeat music) The soy milk is simmered A salt mixture called nigari and cold spring water is then curds begin to form. Meanwhile, the leftover soybean husks are sent to local farms for compost. The curds are then pressed into mold, soaked again in cold This tofu is all sold locally and a handful of varieties are available. And a mochi ball treat Tasty. Next stop, another producer who utilizes the magical old school family run, Mr. Mizogushi's family with spring water and - Ice, ice, and then smells and taste. (man speaking Japanese). - Hmm. Wow. - It's alive. Local rice is used along with water from different Each one has a unique And what is Mr. Mizogushi's Well. (man speaking Japanese) (people laughing) - Throw the sake when So this is the whole leftover. - This is bottom of the barrel. - Bottom of the barrel. - Mix of everything. - Whew, it's a beauty. - Nice. And nothing like some spicy miso ramen served by a cute little robot to round out our beautiful Beep-beep, boop-boop, little guy, can you bring me some soup? (car speeding) (upbeat ambient music) (people laughing) This slope side guiding up makes it their mission to track The light and fluff. Face shots for everyone. The drop of echinacea roof and we're ready to head out And up the mountain we go, on a search for what people travel here from all over the world for. Remember those cold And the sea of Japan? Well, when those cold winds steam is formed and sucked into the sky forming dense clouds. And the first thing those creating near daily storms of some of the driest and (upbeat ambient music) Basically, Niseko is and these guys took us right to the spot. (upbeat music) - That was good. But, I want to know maybe. (upbeat music) - We made it. (Josh laughing) Japanese snowboarding is another example of this culture's connection to nature. These guys ride with the One with the mountain, The magic isn't only in the Unlike the evergreens in these birch trees allow and less branches in the face. (upbeat music) The best part about tomahawking are the on slope rehabilitation centers. Yep, that building right there. (footsteps crunching) (upbeat ambient music) That's okay. Par for the course. (woman speaking Japanese) A quick soak in these sulfur rich baths is just what the doctor ordered. The water here is a gift, from the mineral springs to the Siberian powder snow. (indistinct speaking) Even Sapporo Classic beer is made from the local spring water. Classic Sapporo. - Classic, all time, best day, best life. Bye-bye. - Ooh. - [Josh] If we tally up the things we've learned on this trip so far, it's that the ocean provides, and that 7-Eleven is always open. - And a convenience store but if you asking me which snack to get, Jagariko is the (beep). Once you step into Japan, there's two things you have to eat, one is pino. Dried potato, this is hoshi-imo. This is the best thing. Dried persimmons. And (indistinct). Of course, when your kids is crying and they're screaming around, just boom, run to the 7-Eleven buy this eclair, and then this world's gonna, all good. - Chocolate eclair secured, this world is going to be all good. You rarely drive over mountains in Japan, instead, you drive through Hold your breath. Out of the mountains, leaving the tourist trail, Kushiro is a large industrial port city, think coal, paper mills and fishing boats. But at its heart is a warm fire. Downtown, there are now over a hundred robatayaki restaurants. Based off of the old used by Japanese fishermen in the past, and Grandma Nakajima in the same location and some believe that this is There's nothing like sitting around a (upbeat music) With ice like this, you better believe this city has two Olympic speed skating medalists. And a pretty competitive (upbeat music) Do my roller skating skills Let's find out. This is way harder than it looks. Apollo Ono, hats off to you, brother. Okay, now it's time Tiny restaurants are all Choose wisely. Nope, not that one. (upbeat music) This 10-seater claims fried chicken, Hokkaido soul food. The chicken is marinated in different than karaage, better. (cart whirring) Bright and early, it's a brisk two degrees out, but the hunt for ingredients (man speaking Japanese) And we're here to harvest which is a fundamental element of umami. (man speaking in foreign language) (bell tolling) (car speeding) We are in a small town built and we are with the king of oysters. That's actually his name, (man speaking Japanese) Wow. 4000 years. So the heritage is richer than Jesus. (somber music) Woo, beautiful. Ah, so cold, it's like. Hmm. (somber music) We open oysters from the And the oyster flip is common. Sake oysters is also And now is the time that we start to get weird on these trips. Hey, look who showed up. Kenji found his love for And this afternoon we're and feasting with a good crew. (birds chirping) (indistinct) It's quieter on this side of the island. Not gonna lie, it's pretty nice. (cup hitting) Thanks for the oysters and a great time. (upbeat ambient music) We're officially beyond the There isn't much of anything actually. Just point break after (somber music) We're on the far eastern side of Hokkaido, and we've reached the end. We've been to some version this one really feels like the end. (thunder rumbling) over there. Around the bend is our final stop, Rausu, which in Ainu means where the men have spirits of beasts. Kate is concerned. This is Kazumi Ishida, the unofficial mayor of Rausu and the head of the local fishing fleet. He's the guy who will be and hosting the final dinner. He's also caught most of the And at two in the morning, the captain will board for a 12 hour shift in just like he does six days (upbeat ambient music) In the meantime, we'll stay busy until the fishing boats I feel like we all deserve Wow, did I just manifest that? (upbeat music) We'll take in some of the sites and grab another ingredient. Every summer, many of the fishermen take time off of catching to hand harvest this local hearty kelp, a delicacy known as kombu. - Hey, Josh, nice to meet you. - It's not being harvested now, but we have been given access by the Willy Wonka of Konbu. (man speaking Japanese). Hmm. This ingredient is so important and the quality of it here is and even a reflection of the for its culture and natural resources. Well, that was fun. Now back to the docs. So we're just watching these guys have been out They've done about three There's lots of different variety of fish, mostly cod it seems. But the process is incredible, just using all of these boxes and moving around super quickly to manage all of their catch through and into the weighing area. It's like a ballet, everything is timed perfectly. Every day of the week, the weighed, and auctioned off at local restaurants and factories, and still using pen and from how they've been auctioning And here is our beautiful salmon. Oh, wait and a bonus so, so much cod sperm. (lighthearted music) We did it, we've gathered enough to pull off a feast, harvesting from above and sourcing from volcanic and of course, our beloved 7-Eleven. For today's meal, we are keeping it cozy and it already smells delicious. Also, don't mind me as (upbeat music) (people laughing) Finally, somebody (people laughing) We are really beginning to feel at home in this house on the This final dinner is a reminder of the unmatched hospitality at each stop along our trip. (woman speaking Japanese) The people we've met have been rugged, yet kind, hardworking, and fun. (people laughing) Yeah. And damn, the food has That is amazing. (upbeat music) - Okay. - [Josh] Japanese use the as a way to show gratitude and respect for everyone and everything that existed to create So as we're surrounded by new friends and amazing food produced by the people and places we've experienced on this trip, I say (speaking Japanese). We're humbled and honored by all of you. (glasses clinking) Thank you Hokkaido. All right, I guess that's a wrap. Oh wait, wait, one final tip, always help with the dishes. (upbeat music)