I want to share with you today Answering the call of God. Somebody We have a lot of breakers that are converging in a lot of people that are maybe connected to our many of you who found your fire during COVID and man. God has raised up men and women of God not the real call that is inside of you. The next it will depend on the pew. It will be you and by God, to be used by God, to drive out demons, baptize people. You are called for such a time holy people. You are His own special people. God raised the people like Pastor Mike and special but because you're marked by God, to to live for God and to make a difference in Unfortunately the church has become a destination A gas station where you get fueled up, your your career. Your platform is the marketplace. is the Hollywood, is the government and the It's not your destination. Destination is the Holy Spirit moving in your at your family dinner, at the Starbucks, at Career is what you choose; A calling is what Calling requires anointing. Career gives you a It's nothing wrong to have a career We all have a general calling and that is cast out demons and heal the sick and so calling and I always tell them, 'If you your specific calling will The second most important decision in your when you discover your purpose. When you run presence of God. The Bible says about Jonah and he running from? The call. God gave him the call he just ran from the call of God and in running from the presence of God. God's presence is who sometimes they say, 'I don't feel the presence anointing doesn't always rest on the person, away from their purpose, God's anointing begins lifts the anointing. Why? Because God's anointing embrace your assignment, you can pray and fast, need to do but God's anointing is not for a show. through you and God will increase His anointing I'm gonna share with you just five and so if you're taking notes, write the Say this with me. Say, 'I was born on purpose' when he was born was hidden three months by his child and they were not afraid of the king's refused to be the called the son of Pharaoh's in the days of Moses is what happened in the There was a blood thirsty Pharaoh. There was a Roe v. Wade that was killing babies. Moses came where they would throw them in the Nile, they king to kill male babies. The same thing started wipe out the children. You came such a time generation that's coming and that's why he went deliverer, a breaker, a his kingdom to be born. Some of you maybe are mother and you maybe feel like you were born want you but God used your mom to get you into you came through your parents. You have defeated. Every death spirit that wanted you are standing here because you have a I was born a month after the Chernobyl happened. I explosions that happened in the world. One of believe that from the early age, the devil wanted my mom was told that I am gonna be born dead. My prophet says, That child will be born. That child and I believe the same thing is about you. Even I'm here to stand your birth is a sign you have an assignment. Your birth is the sign, and during the birth, there was something that and I grew up struggling believing that I had believed that my life had no meaning and it had wrong. There's not one person under the sound of You have an assignment from God and if maybe you grew up as the person who was rejected by insecurities. Please understand your parents main meal. Don't curse the restaurant just because much out of our parents and too little out of I wanna challenge you forgive your parents for for you because you are not an accident, you Purpose can change your life. The second thing this fast Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 23. We've of age, Moses refused. Somebody say, 'Refused' suffer somebody. Say, 'Suffer' affliction with the of sin. The second thing that I want to highlight and embrace suffering. You're not ready huge threshold for pain. I know many of us Jesus and the call of God has an element will Moses forsook pleasures of sin and embraced an We have taught our people more on how We have raised snowflakes spineless Christians get offended, who melt when their pride get them their parking space, who melts when they have the service. Why? Because we have a generation being like Moses who the Bible says, He embraced life is not being on a vacation. It's more like not a life of a Pepsi Cola. Many of us cannot We are scared of pain. We are scared of We are scared of losing our status. We are being demonetized. We are scared of being fired. We are scared of being broken up, that will never walk in the call of God until He suffered, he embraced it. Before Number three. He embraces suffering with he goes far. Write this down, 'Go far to to find fire and I'm going to read from of his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of 'Far' into the wilderness and came to Sinai, the but something happened one day, when he When he went further than before. When he went He needed that fire to walk in that calling because every person must understand God's An encounter with God activates your calling. the fire of God for a calling. What has happened this where you want to fulfill the A Biblical way was never a degree why we have dead preachers preaching that are closing because a degree does not break does not drive out demons, anointing drives out become a saint, it is the power of the a nation before Moses would have an encounter How do you get this fire? You go to the conference. You can get a spark but you don't burn God's fire come on God's mountains and if you fire that you need to activate the call that you and so many of us were like man, if only this pastor could just open the door for me. If only If only you can encounter the presence of Jesus, because once God sets you on fire, listen things be like me. You're not gonna be like him. You're world does not need another Vlad, the world needs because until you meet the fire, your calling page to get your calling going. You need the of my voice, you need a fire but the fire comes down. We climb up. Anybody who ever It's not easy but I want you to Some of you fasted three days, nothing happened. of what you're accustomed to. Some of you if your fire is outside of what you're familiar far. The devil will tell you, you'll get pastor will if the Lord won't. Go far into the struggling for over 12 years as a youth pastor, I when I was about 14 years of age. I felt like parking lot of a grocery store of what the church It's almost like there was this ceiling. It's No matter what I tried, there was just simply of Alaska flight to Sacramento and I was a tither I thought it was the devil because I 'Give all of your savings away,' and I said, 'No a fasted life. I'm living a life of giving. I'm fence around my commitment to God. This is as far What if I die behind this fence. This of electricity attached to it, I would never dare for the first time in my life and gave like When COVID happened because I got used to living 21-day water fast with the church and then the was also in California. I'm on my knees just fence for fasting is 21 days. I don't do more than The Holy Spirit stood outside of and I want you to do what My Son did. I want you know I'm gonna die. He said, Physically, He says, 'You won't die' and going for 40. It has nothing to do it has to do with this principle. Moses went far into the wilderness. Could it be that your call is set is your spiritual limit, of what you have convenient and you're not gonna go past that. I wanna make you slightly miserable and afflicted. there is no call flourishing that means fire if you're like a leader like Moses who tried and you're burnt out with ministry and you say, I The ministry destroyed my family. No, no, no, ministry was never supposed to be done without without God's grace. It was never supposed the help of the Holy Spirit. When you do it in I want to invite you to have an experience fresh fire, your call will become more real but What would happen if you would give that you would pray that symbolize going far. Some prayer in the car and nothing wrong with that Some of you are comfortable only fasting at one, that worked when you were a baby Christian a little bit further. Go far if you want fire. your regret will not be that you poured your preserved yourself too much. I wanna die in such a say, It's a waste what Vlad does. It's a waste the a waste the way he serves. Why? Because I know Are you with me? I want you to notice when Moses encounters the God says, Now therefore and that's Exodus 3:9, Now of the children of Israel has come to Me the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now may bring My people, the children of Israel The call of God on my life to the cry of my generation. Write this, I'm The call of God I can't hear you say, 'The of my generation.' God comes to Moses and For 40 years Moses has blocked any of Moses has disconnected himself to to be completely people because he used to be there, he's no longer God heard the cry of His people and our God, heard, saw the suffering of His people and when God picks up the call, picks up the phone and and starts calling them. He starts promising and it's not because they are special. God seeks to answer. I remember when this was about six or seven years ago actually eight had this neighbor. A wonderful older gentleman, I didn't have a chance to actually have a I was in a hurry and I lived very close to I was waiting for the right time to talk to We finally moved in, everything was fine and then me and then another month, I stopped seeing him turning everything over and I was like, What me and my wife go for the rollerblading and I haven't seen our neighbor and I have this I wasn't even thinking about our neighbor but millennial does. I googled my neighbor's address, Facebook, didn't find him, into Instagram, he was older. I put him into every database, and when I punched him into Google, the first I clicked on the local newspaper and I found out A month later, they put his house for sale. the new people to buy the house come in there. She my car. So I'm washing my car, getting ready for his neighbor? I said, Yes, I am his neighbor. She and I kinda remembered like Vlad, behave you're a ma'am I'm kind of busy but yeah yeah, I would have time and I didn't want to go see his We get inside of the house and I'm just literally my time. My car, I need to watch finish washing my yeah this was great. It's an empty house. There's to make her not be you know upset at me. In the just to waste time and I said oh wow, that was and I'm walking by and she says, you don't She said, That's not how he died. I said enlighten She said this man struggled with loneliness He didn't have a lot of family. He didn't have a shot himself. Every time I saw him, he smiled. never finished washing my car. I got into the repenting before God because every time I felt in a hurry for something else and when I got on that you placed a neighbor so close to me and and actually open to talk to me but I just didn't find that changed my life. He says this, that man has day and every night. He said, I strategically He says, I've been reaching for you and I've been whispering to you is He says, I wasn't talking on your heart just I've been busy answering his cry but you couldn't and because you had a busy signal, I couldn't The call of God upon your life it's not because it's not because you're unique. The call of God The call of God upon your life has one purpose. Buddhists, atheists, homosexual, transgender, portray themselves online one way but every night, will give their last money to put them through a make no mistake. It's not about you. Moses, I don't care that you were burned by Egypt. Moses, I I don't care if you don't want to go back Moses, I will turn your rod into a miracle weapon. Moses, Hollywood will make movies about you give you whatever you need or want but Moses a When God called me at the age of 16 in my office scared to answer the call because I was afraid I was afraid to answer the call because I said who will listen to a guy who barely speaks English not the right guy. God says, I know you're not the I thought my credentials matter. God says, anything with anyone. But Vlad please understand will you answer My call? I said, Lord at 16, If there is a place for someone like me in Your the cry that God was hearing, I will be able who had a son that committed, OD'd four police because of drug use and this young man and I remember when Brian got saved. I went drug stuff that he needed to pay and finally he his record and I was standing there and that night his mom gave her life to Jesus. His mom sells the property, gives a large check me and she said, Thank you for saving my I just preached the gospel. She says, You don't Today that Brian finished bachelor's degree. God heard the cry of Brian and 20 years ago, I thought the reason why God was calling me is found the reason why He was calling me that's why I kept saying God, I'm not special. God of your generation. It's about the cry of people lost, people that are confused, people that are You may not feel that cry right now. You may not at your business, you're looking at your busy as a student and you say God, I don't have your God looks at the humanity not as Christians as oh these are homosexuals and these are good looks at His children. If you have five children, back from the vacation, you realize one of your We still got four. You won't look into your You won't do math with your kids. You can't think a father. God doesn't look at our city and It's a win Gabriel. God looks at every human being that carries His hurting. Let Me call three thousand breakers. of us what we do is we make up excuses. There called you to pastor a church. God calls you excuses and you always said that you are not here to shatter those excuses and to say, 'If you You might not be able you do what I do but you One man in Australia, he was living on found out people would come to the edge they're disappearing. He went to the doctor and seeing stuff and I'm not seeing stuff. The doctor fine. He picks up a local newspaper, finds out the Australia. He says, What can I do? I'm an older know what to say to them. Him and his wife Anytime he would see somebody standing on the What is your name? They would say, My name We live over here. Nobody visits us. We just made He says, I would bad for older people. They would walk and he said I came here to end my life but you're saving milk. Let's lift those hands right now. I have one For those of you that maybe you've and I really sense even I was standing on the sent a storm in your life is not to punish you calling. God is going to anoint you. God is gonna find your mountain but not only if you find your further. There's somebody here that you need to You need to give just more than because God is and you, God wants you to go just a little bit further release the fresh fire in your life but He wants the balcony all the way in the front, lift those standing and begin to say, God I surrender to Your Come on. I want to hear a sound in this room right Begin to pray. Begin to drown that AC sound by call. Lord, I say yes to the call. I say yes to now. I surrender to You. I surrender to You my to You my insecurities. Lord I surrender to You Come on say this with me. I will answer the call. I can't hear you. Say, I will answer If you are able to and you are sitting, knees and the Lord is moving right Moses, Can I have a water. and if you can open the water. It's fine and can I abuse. You? Okay, will do you. Hold to hold this. I want you to hold this water. things. I'm going to share with you last Just one second guys. Those of you at the front for just one second, we'll continue deliverance. continue that in just one moment, just one second just be in that mode, be in that atmosphere right received the call. Moses said, Yes. He eventually He was used of God mightily. He kept going because an encounter with God changes your life, But I'm gonna have one more Moses never entered the promised land. Well, mount of transfiguration but he didn't enter it not because his church started with about six children included. His church was the largest He's seen greater miracles than anybody has ever, but I want to let you know Moses did not enter him to reach not because he lacked anointing Moses had an anger problem. It's in anger he He took the tablets, came down with the he broke those tablets and one day when God called and when he was reflecting and it wasn't it's that Moses never acknowledged I'm going to read something to Numbers 20:12 it says that, God said to Moses, the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore you I've given them but I want you to notice how Moses The Lord was angry with me for your sake meaning, You guys were the ones and because you were bad, get me wrong because I don't want him one day to heaven. I love Moses but something that I want last thing that I want to share with you and write It might not be passion, anointing or fasting, calling was his character and you can have the fruit, what do the fruit does? A fruit feeds what they do is on the stage they operate in the the workplace, they operate in the gift but when family goes hungry saying, I don't want Jesus. Because we're deprived of your attention, we're You're always cranky. You're always impatient. you're changing the world but you're destroying When you have a fruit, good character, you're When you don't have a fruit, your family is fed anything with what you're doing and they say, oh caused my family not to love Jesus. Not really, it You can be Moses and deliver a and then what I want to challenge you today as character. Why and the biggest thing about myself. This is the biggest thing. God will send no a little bit closer. God will send That's exactly what they will and they will provoke your you will say, you say, ah they made me do it. You guys are the ones that made me angry. That's anger there, always as long as you have it, they you say, I have a problem and my problem is anger your spouse on your anger it's like So what you gotta do is you gotta And this is what's gonna happen people will come and they will do this. God will use your spouse, God will use God will use people closest to you to provoke and God will never fix them until we acknowledge reason I'm not entering the promise and God No, they didn't make me angry, I'm an angry person who needs to repent of anger and you are causing for letting me know because it's something I need my character. So I'm not just anointed but I'm I'm also not pathetic and so that I live my life of the Holy Ghost. So I'm not just delivering a Me and much children are entering the promised Place your hand upon your heart is you look like this right now. but the reason why they're driving you and right now just tell the Lord. Say, Lord. I acknowledge that can You change me and any time those people drive me crazy, I if it's not my fault. Change me and change