- I'm Darren McGrady, the Royal Chef, former chef to the Queen, Princess Diana, Prince William and Prince Harry, and I'm gonna be making Chocolate Birthday Cake. (exciting orchestral music) The Chocolate Birthday Cake is a recipe that dates It's a family recipe. We start off with eggs and And then into that we're and some butter, and some cocoa powder, mix it all together, goes in the oven, and then we'll sandwich layer that with some chocolate ganache. The Queen's a chocoholic. She loves chocolate. Anything on the menu that we used to prepare at the palace she'd always approve and it Right now the eggs and the and you can see they're really When we put them on the stove we'll keep whisking them And by breaking I mean the consistency of the liquid here just So right now you can see The Chocolate Birthday Cake is a cake that the Queen has every I say her birthday, she actually She's a lucky queen. April the 21st is her actual birthday, but then the second Saturday in June is her official birthday. So this year she'll be 94 or 188. When I started at Buckingham Palace, this cake was made for every single member of the royal family's birthday. The Chocolate Genoise Birthday Cake with the ganache all over the Everyone had the same recipe, everyone had the same cake. And it wasn't until later on when I read a book by Gabriel Tschumi, who was chef to Queen Victoria, that I found out that He created the recipe over 100 years ago. So the eggs have almost broken. Look, when I lift now, they break. And just a little bit longer, and then they'll be perfect and then they'll increase in volume at least two or three times. But be careful at this stage that you don't overcook them. Because any longer than you'll end up with and that is nasty. Perfect. So now it goes onto the machine, and the volume will increase. So next stage is to put together and then start sieving away to make sure there are no lumps in there. I don't know anyone that's the same recipe every year. But the Queen's always had I don't know if she loves it, if she loves the chocolate cake, or maybe it's just because and maybe it's a tradition that they have the same chocolate cake. So for the 11 years that I it would be the same So now the butter. (orchestral music) And the flour and chocolate. You could put a spoon in there, but this is the best way I've been told I got hands like Shrek. They're perfect for mixing I can't even remember how many times I've made this chocolate cake. Not once have I ever thought about changing the recipe, making making it my own. This is a royal family tradition, and if this was good and her chef, it's good enough for me too. To the oven. (orchestral music) Once the cake's in the oven, then we start making the The filling, chocolate ganache. And you melt the chocolate, and here' on the stove I've got some cream that I'm gonna bring to the boil. Once the cream's come to the boil, I'll pour that over the chocolate and start whisking it in until There are two favorite chocolate This one, the Chocolate Birthday Cake, and also the Chocolate Biscuit Cake. Now Prince William chose which is in my book, &quot;Eating Royally,&quot; as his groom's cake when he got married. That was one of the Queen's that she eats all through the year. The Chocolate Cake is different. The Chocolate Cake is so every member of the royal family, when they have their birthdays, they'll have the same Chocolate At Christmas, with all of all through the day, Princess Alexandra, it was her birthday, December the 25th. So alongside the chocolate Buche de Noel, and all the little chocolate would be a Chocolate Birthday Cake. Once the chocolate's melted, and the cream's come to the boil, you can slowly start Once you've got a nice then it needs to refrigerate Once it's firm enough to we can take that out, and then create all the layers. (orchestral music) The cake's been in the oven now for about 35 minutes. It's nice and firm to the touch. And so this is ready to turn out. I just run a spatula around the edge. (orchestral music) And then I can take this and And take off the parchment Once the ganache is chilled, about an hour, two hours, It's much easier to work You can see it's started to thicken, and the cake's chilled. So now we can take this, turn it upside down, and then slice our layers. When we're slicing the layers, rather than cut all the way through, you tend to come out this end and tear the whole sponge. So it's actually better to slice in and keep turning the cake as you go. (orchestral music) Now I've got my three even layers, I can take some ganache and put some on each one. (happy orchestral music) So now I start building the layers. Piece of sponge, chocolate more ganache, and then And then we push that down so it's nice and flat and nice and smooth. We're going to take the sponge and put it onto a wire rack. If there wasn't enough we now make more chocolate ganache, boil more cream, melt more chocolate, whisk it all together, and runny topping for this cake. Then it's all about and getting it even, (orchestral music) As you can see, it's quite a large cake. And you'd think the Queen was inviting all the family over But in reality, that doesn't happen. Most of the time the Queen or with Prince Philip, or just with a Lady in Look at all that gorgeous chocolate. Through the sponge, in the layers, and now all over the top too. But if you think that's all the chocolate that's going in there, we've got more to put on the top. Let's refrigerate this, and then we'll decorate it. As I said, the Queen loves chocolate. Chocolate would appear whether it was the another one of her favorite dishes, one of her favorite desserts. The other royals, maybe not so much. Prince Philip, he actually instead of dessert. The Prince of Wales Lemons and figs, and anything William and Harry, when I they liked the Caramel Banana Cake. And of course, Kate loved As you can see, it's refrigerated just to set the chocolate up. It goes a little bit darker, but it already smells so good. And the other chocolate ganache, I put that in the refrigerator too, so I'm gonna get that, and put it into a little piping bag to decorate the top. We're going to transfer (orchestral music) So carefully have to lift this off. (orchestral music) I'm gonna put into the bag. (bag crinkling) And then it's just decorating the cake. Start off at the top. And chocolate on the top is not enough. We need chocolate around the base as well. It's a real Chocolate Birthday Cake. All that's left to do is wish A little plaque made from Happy Birthday, Your Majesty. What always surprised me was that we never put candles on the cake, and we never wrote, Happy Happy Birthday Queenie, We just wrote Happy Birthday on there. That's how I prepared it for Time to taste it. I've got to decide if I'm doing a slice for me, or the slice Because the Queen only takes And it would take her all And then there'd still be some left to send down to the servants, down to the staff dining room. She would only take a tiny (gasping) Oh, chocolate, chocolate, It smells so good. That dark chocolate, that Happy Birthday, Your Majesty. (orchestral music) (chef grunting with delight) (mouse clicking)