Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we're going one of these, the thermal Coming up, where do we find them? What are they used for? And then we'll cut one open and discuss the internal components and how they work. If you want to get the most out of any thermal expansion valve, check out the TXV Superheat Tuner. It's a free mobile app who have kindly sponsored this video. You can use it to optimize of a cooling system in just 15 minutes. Which saves money on energy costs. You can download it in the video description below. So where did we find the expansion valve? Expansion valves sit between evaporator in a refrigeration cycle. In this model, which is a we have the main body On the body we have the bottom of the valve. Then the refrigerant outlet of the side. And on the other side we have Under that cap is a screw, which is used to manually adjust the superheat. We'll see how that works On the top we have this large There's also a coil of as the capilary tube. And there is a large bulb at the end of it known as the sensing bulb. These are all made from stainless steel. The coil is stretched out so that the bulb sits at the exit of the We have previously covered in great detail how thermal expansion valves and electronic expansion valves work. As well as the different valves used on chillers. Do check those out, links are in the video description below. What are expansion valves used for? Expansion valves control into the evaporator in They measure the superheat at increasing or decreasing flowing into the evaporator a constant superheat. This also ensures that the it will leave the evaporator as a slightly superheated vapor and entering the compressor. Liquids cannot be the compressor this and even destroy it. (compressor exploding) The bulb is filled with a refrigerant which is kept completely in the rest of the system. These two refrigerants never meet or mix, they are always separated. The superheat boils the and as it boils it creates pressure. The pressure travels along and into the power head. The power head controls and we'll see inside We replace a removable of the expansion valve. This has an orifice which to control the flow of refrigerant. There are different sized ones depending on the coolant capacity and Okay, enough about that, let's cut it open and look inside. I'll just put the valve into a bench vice to keep it steady while I cut it open. Because of the delicate parts inside I'm gonna use a hacksaw It does take a little longer, but the angle grinder could and I want to be able Okay, that's the first cut done. I'll just rotate that in the vice to cut the other side open. Again, I'm just going to cut through it. That's pretty much cut now. I've just used a chisel to snap the last little bit inside. And there we go. So let's have a closer look inside. So we have the main body, which We have the refrigerant inlet of the main body in this vertical pipe. And then the refrigerant So the refrigerant and enters the valve body via the inlet. It enters as a high pressure, medium temperature, saturated liquid. It then passes through leaves it exits the and will now be a low pressure, low temperature, liquid vapor mixture. So what's causing the change in pressure, temperature phase and also controlling the flow of refrigerant? Well we can see this small pin here. This is connected to the The diaphragm is a thin As the diaphragm moves up and down, it causes the pin to Underneath the diaphragm we have a spring which is pushing up against the diaphragm. We can use this to adjust the superheat, and we'll look at that a Above the diaphragm we which is connected to the capilary tube and then the sensing bulb. The chamber, the capilary tube, I'll just cut through sensing to show you the inside. As you can see, it's just usually filled with some refrigerant. The refrigerant in the are completely separated which flows in the system. This isolated refrigerant the capilary tube, and The sensing bulb sits at the As the cooling load on the superheat increases Because the sensing bulb's pipe of the evaporator transfers and causes the bulb to expand and boil. Because the sensing bulb, capilary tube, and the chamber are all hollow as the refrigerant expands and boils it causes the pressure inside to increase. This pressure travels and makes its way to the As the pressure increases, it pushes down on the diaphragm and this The pin controls how much But to do that we need one more part. Inside the inlet of the valve Inside is a small strainer which protects the valve from blockages. Then there's a small orifice, or hole, which is blocked by a Our pin in the main valve, to open the valve. The further the stopper is pushed down, the more refrigerant can flow. As the cooling load the superheat increases at the outlet. The sensing bulb at and the refrigerant inside boils, causing an increase in pressure This pressure pushes the diaphragm down, and that pushes the pin and lets more refrigerant flow. As more refrigerant flows and so the pressure in the sensing bulb and capilary tube decreases. Which means there's less pressure pushing the diaphragm down. The spring then pushes which causes the pin to move up, and as the pin rises, begins to close the orifice which reduces the amount of refrigerant that can flow. This repeats constantly to ensure the correct amount We mentioned earlier about Well this plug on the side and if we rotate this, we can depending on which way you rotate it. As the slider moves up and down, it changes how much force to the underside of the diaphragm. Which changes the sensitivity you to therefore tune the expansion valve and adjust the superheat. I just want to remind the TXV Superheat Tuner app for free, by clicking on the link in Okay, that's it but if you then click on one of these and I'll catch you there Don't forget to also follow Instagram, as well as