Transcriber: Bob Prottas So this is a hotel room, I get bored sometimes. A room like this has not a lot But for a hacker, it gets a little is not like the television in your home, it's a node on a network. Right? That means I can mess with it. If I plug a little device it's an infrared transceiver, the TV remote might send So what? (Laughter) That doesn't matter to me so much, Hey, but what's this? I can not only do this I can control your TV in your hotel room. (Laughter) So I can watch you you know, TV based registration things, if you're surfing I can watch you do it. Sometimes it's interesting stuff. Funds transfer. Really big funds transfers. You never know what people while they're surfing the web (Laughter) The point is I get to decide Anybody else staying (Laughter) This is a project I worked on the security properties of wireless This is a robot we've built that can drive up to them and show them (Laughter) We just wanted to build a robot, but we didn't know We made the pistol This is called the &quot;Sniper Yagi&quot;. It's for your long-range about a mile away I can watch This is a project I worked on with So what it is, is a map &quot;Computers, Freedom and Privacy&quot;. And this conference was you know, put a computer that logged all the Bluetooth traffic. So as everybody came and went we were able to just log that, and then I can print out a map like this This is Kim Cameron, (Laughter) Unbeknownst to him, I got to see everywhere he went. And I can correlate this (phone dialing) (phone dialing) Anybody here use cellphones? (Laughter) (Phone ringing) So my phone is calling - (Ringing) calling - Voice mail: You have 100 messages. Palbos Holman: Uh oh! VM: First unheard message - PH: Where do I press - VM: Message skipped. PH: Uh oh! VM: Main menu. To listen to your - You have two skipped messages. Goodbye. PH: Uh oh! (Laughter) And I was going to record him but I seem to have pressed an invalid key, so we're going to move on. And I'll explain how that works some Anybody here used MySpace? MySpace users? Oh! Used to be popular. This guy, a buddy of ours Samy, which I think is what And what he did is he had It lists all your friends, somebody's cool is that they have Well, Samy didn't have any friends. He wrote a little bit of Javascript code so that whenever you look at his page it would just automagically And it would skip the whole saying &quot;Is Samy really your friend?&quot; But then it would copy so that whenever anybody it would automatically add them (Laughter) And it would change your page (Laughter) So in under 24 hours, Samy had (Laughter) Hey, he just finished serving (Laughter) Even better, Christopher Abad, also trying to meet chicks Some of these dates so what Abad did to connect MySpace to Spam Assassin, It works just like You train it by giving it some spam train it by giving it a little and it tries to use to work out the difference. Right? Well, he just trained it on profiles as legitimate email. Profiles from girls he dated and then ran it against (Laughter) Out spits girls you might like to date. What I say about Abad is, I think, I don't know why we need Match.com, You know this is innovation. He's got a problem, he found a solution. Does anybody use these - bleep - They're popular in, well, So kids these days will drive clicking open, open, open, bloop. Eventually you find another maybe a different color, Kids will just loot it, lock it up and go. Your insurance company because there's not For one manufacturer we figured so that it will open every car (Laughter) There is a point to be made about this but it's that your car is now a PC, your toaster, if it is not a PC, And I'm not joking about that. And the point of that is you inherit all the security And we have a lot of them. So keep that in mind, Anybody use a lock like this OK, good. I do too. This is a Schlage lock. It's on half of the front doors I brought one to show you. So this is my Schlage lock. This is a key that fits the lock, Anybody here ever tried All right, got a few, Well, it's for kids with OCD. You've got to put them in there, spend hours getting the finesse You know, for the ADD kids in the house I put my little magic key in here, I put a little pressure on there smack it a few times and I just picked the lock. We're in. It's easy. And in fact, I don't really know It's really, really easy. I have a keychain I made for every other lock in America. And if you're interested, so that I can cut these keys (Laughter) (Applause) So my gift to you, how to pick a lock you can take home and try it on your door. Anybody used these USB thumb drives? Yeah, print my Word document, yeah! They're very popular. Mine works kind of like yours. But while you're doing that, it's just making a handy backup and your browser history and cookies and all the things that you might need So we just like to make these things (Laughter) Anybody here use credit cards? (Laughter) Oh, good! Yeah, so they're popular (Laughter) Well, there's new credit cards with a letter explaining how Anybody get one of these? You know it's secure because and you can use these in I brought one to show you, Has anybody seen these before? Okay, who's got one? Bring it on up here. (Laughter) There's a prize in it for you. I just want to show you I got this credit card in the mail. I really do need some volunteers, one, two, three, four, five are going to get these that protect you against the problem that Bring your credit card up here I want to try it on one of these OK. Do we have a conference organizer, somebody who can coerce people (Laughing) It's by your own volition because - This is where the demo gets really awesome I know you guys have never seen - (Inaudible question) What's that? They're really cool wallets Anybody else seen code Yeah, this is pretty awesome. (Laughter) OK, great I got volunteers. So who has one of these OK, here we go. I'm about to share only to 350 close friends. Hear the beep? That means someone's hacking OK, what did we get? Valued customer and the credit It turns out your secure new Anybody else want to try yours Man: Can you install overdraft protection? PH: Beep, let's see what we got? So we bitched about so it doesn't show the name anymore. Which is progress. Yeah, it shows my name on it, Yours doesn't have it. Anyway, so next time you get that says it's secure, send it to me. (Laughter) Oh wait, one of these is empty, hold on. I think this is the one, yep, here you go. You get the one that's disassembled. All right, cool. (Applause) I still have a few minutes yet left, (Laughter) Oh, shit. That's my subliminal messaging campaign. Here's the most exciting slide This is the protocol diagram for SSL, which is the encryption that protects your credit card when you're Very exciting, I know, but the point is hackers will attack every I'm going to send two responses I'm going to send a zero I'm going to send twice as much I'm going to take twice as long Just try a bunch of stuff. See what falls in my lap. When I find a hole like that This is a little more what SSL looks This guy kills a million Africans a year. It's Anopheles stephensi mosquito Is this the wrong talk? (Laughter) This is a protocol diagram for malaria. So what we're doing in our lab at every point we can find. It has a very complex life cycle but it spends some time in humans, and what I need are hackers. Because hackers have a mind They have a mind that's optimized You know, I often illustrate this If you get some random new she might say, &quot;Well, what does this do?&quot; And instantly, she'd would know But with a hacker, The question is, I'm going to take all the screws out, and break it into a lot of little pieces. But then I'm going to figure out That's discovery, and we need to do that to figure out what's possible. And so in the lab what I'm trying to some of the biggest We work on malaria, thanks to This is how we used to solve malaria. This is a real ad from like the 40's. We eradicated malaria in the US In the lab what we do is a lot of work This is a high-speed video, trying to learn how mosquitos fly. And you can see that We actually have no idea how they fly. But we have a cool video camera so we - (Laughter) Yeah, it cost more than a Ferrari. Anyway we came up with some Let's shoot them down with laser beams. This is what happens when you put and a laser junky. So people thought it was funny at first, but we figured out, you know, we can It's using the CCD from a webcam, the laser from a Blu-ray burner, the laser galvo is from a laser printer. We do motion detection on a GPU processor like you might find in video game system. It's all stuff that follows Moore's law. So it's actually not going to The idea is that we would put a perimeter of these laser systems and just shoot all the mosquitos And we might want to do that We could also do it to protect crops. Our team is right now working on characterizing what they the pest that has wiped out of the Orange groves in Florida. So people laughed at first. This is a video of our system working. We are tracking mosquitos live Those crosshairs are put there It just watches them, finds them moving and then it aims a laser at them Figure out from that, is this a mosquito? Is it Anopheles Stephensi? And if all that's true then (Laughter) So we have this working in a lab. We're working on taking All this happens at the Intellectual and we try and take on some This is the money shot. You can see we just burned He's not coming back. (Applause) Kind of vaporized They love it. Never got called by PETA or anyone else. I mean, it's the perfect enemy. There's just no one coming Sometimes we overdo it. So anyway, I'm going to get off stage. This is the Intellectual Ventures Lab Basically we use every kind of scientist and one of every tool in the world Thanks. (Applause)