Infidelity accusations, a surprise run-in, and and downs, but what was -- or who was -- After originally meeting on the set Dennis Quaid and Meg Ryan started dating after the couple's plans to wed in 1990 were put been taking drugs on a regular basis. &quot;I was addicted to cocaine and good an addict is at hiding his get married and I was tired of living He went to rehab in 1990, and the couple tying the knot on Valentine's Day. During Quaid was frank about his excessive drug use &quot;I would do coke and I would As for how he finally managed to a spiritual epiphany of sorts, which &quot;I had one of those white-light being dead and losing everything For her part, and following Quaid's journey Magazine of portraying someone struggling with &quot;It gave me empathy. It was a cathartic role.&quot; When Dennis Quaid and Meg Ryan started dating, having appeared in films such as 1983's &quot;The changed during the late 1980s and 1990s, when Ryan 1989's &quot;When Harry Met Sally,&quot; 1993's &quot;Sleepless result, the couple found themselves dealing with Ryan quickly becoming the more famous of &quot;When we met, you know, I was the big &quot;We'd go out on the streets of 'Meg! Meg!' And I have to admit it, I Though he added that he learned from that or not Ryan's fame played a direct role in the it is clear Quaid was certainly impacted After tying the knot on Valentine's Day in 1991, Jack Quaid, on April 24, 1992. For many be one of Hollywood's most solid couples, pair revealed their shocking separation after However, according to Ryan, their union announced the news to the press. Months after her &quot;Proof of Life&quot; co-star, Russell relationship with her ex-husband. Sort &quot;My marriage and the dissolution of my marriage... speculation, because I'll never talk about dissolved before it became sport for the press. In the summer of 2000, tabloid photos emerged of on the set of the movie &quot;Proof of Life.&quot; the nature of their relationship, especially their separation that June. When the two went it led many to question whether Crowe Hollywood couple's marriage. But according to Ryan Their relationship would only last a matter of her 2008 interview with InStyle, Ryan defended &quot;I think he took a big hit. the marriage. He was definitely there While Ryan made it sound as though of the demise of her relationship with Quaid, she staunchly defended the &quot;Gladiator&quot; &quot;I was a mess. I hurt him, too, at the end. it wasn't the time for that. So I got out.&quot; While the timeline of events Ryan has made sure everyone knows that Crowe While rumors about Meg Ryan's romance the &quot;Hanging Up&quot; star defended her soon-to-be speaking to W magazine months after &quot;Neither of us, me nor Dennis, is both behaved very honorably -- in our cheated on me. I can't believe During the interview, Ryan continually defended no one else involved in their breakup, even &quot;The reasons we broke up have nothing to broken -- nobody else broke it up. That's true.&quot; Noting that both she and Quaid &quot;What anybody else thinks, At the time, Ryan's words suggested and that neither party had strayed Meg Ryan later changed her story regarding anyone cheated. The first hints of this came &quot;It was a very unhealthy marriage, and it for a very long time. I probably That wasn't the end of Ryan's comments on her a 2008 interview with InStyle, Ryan expanded &quot;Dennis was not faithful to me for a long time, and that was very painful. I found out While the &quot;What Happens Later&quot; star didn't elsewhere, her words clearly hit a nerve with Quaid told the New York Daily News shortly after, &quot;It was eight years ago, and I find publicly to rehash and rewrite While the veracity of Ryan's infidelity it would seem that there were many factors Regardless of whether or not their divorce was a about the pain caused by his separation from in July 2001 -- the same month their divorce from the &quot;Sleepless in Seattle&quot; star kicked &quot;I got through shock. Depression. Anger. All your whole identity is shattered. That's Expanding on the painful divorce, only thing more difficult than the end &quot;I just sat there and went through it. But I'm glad I did because I think And ultimately, because Quaid and Ryan the former couple had to find a way to communicate that likely wouldn't have been the case but they were both thankfully able to &quot;I'm grateful to still be here. I'm grateful for- I think it's important to really enjoy your ride.&quot; Although Meg Ryan claimed that Russell Dennis Quaid would later seemingly suggest Quaid opened up about an unexpected run-in &quot;I think he was a bit surprised when I thanked I think Russell did Meg and I a big favor. because we were clinging While Quaid didn't explicitly say that there it seems his ex-wife's short-lived romance important factor in the breakdown of their of time after his relationship with &quot;I felt hurt and humiliated, of but we hadn't been getting along for quite some we knew our marriage wasn't going to last.&quot; While this last sentiment confirmed Ryan's appeared to directly contradict part of his ex's &quot;No one likes to see his wife Time is a great healer, it would seem -- Dennis Quaid's split. Although the breakup was the former couple appeared to forge a friendship highly of the &quot;City of Angels&quot; star, suggesting During his 2004 interview with the Mirror, the &quot;We're friends again now. We both realized that we're happier without each other. ways. Meg has become a new woman and I During a 2019 interview Quaid continued to sing his &quot;Sure I still love her. I'm very fond of good years together. We had a kid together &quot;He had a video camera in his hand making his own videos and stuff and it Meg Ryan and Dennis Quaid's son, Jack Quaid, has successful acting career of his own. In fact, 2022's &quot;Scream&quot; and 2023's &quot;Oppenheimer,&quot; as and Dennis were able to maintain a civil it would seem that Jack was still understandably just eight years old when the famous Speaking on the &quot;Allegedly with Theo Von &amp; &quot;It's one of those weird ages for your to know what's going on, but young enough to Jack also addressed the difficulties he faced which included experiencing of tabloid culture regarding &quot;It's hard to ignore when you're checking out and you look at [magazines], and there's a photo of them with a little paper