Gentlemen, I am here today with a painful feeling of incredulity. speaking in the heart of New York, the greatest city American businessman, over so magnificent on such a topic as capitalism versus choice between them were conceivable. On the achievements and the remnants of the noblest On the other hand, we have a bloody slaughterhouse inflated by our handouts, our lend-lease, our self-betrayal. The world is being destroyed conflict of capitalism versus communism. It with communism as the profiteer and the scavenger by default. Capitalism is in the process of that process, we must understand its reasons. No political-economic system in history had mankind so greatly as capitalism, and none Why did the majority of intellectuals turn their victims, the American businessmen, bear is a primordial evil which, to this day, men Altruism has been man's ruling moral code had many forms and variations, but its essence that man has no right to exist for his own of his existence, and that self-sacrifice The conflict which since the Renaissance has has reached its ultimate climax in our age, altruist morality. Capitalism and altruism are philosophical man or in the same society. The moral code been formulated explicitly. The basic premise end in himself, not the means to the ends of neither sacrificing himself to others nor must deal with one another as traders, by This, in essence, is the moral premise on which principle of man's right to his own life, own happiness. This is what the intellectuals did not and remained committed to the mystics' morality ideal is suffering and self-sacrifice, then Capitalism does not tell men to suffer here on earth. Capitalism does not tell men Capitalism does not preach passivity, self-reliance. And above all, capitalism does or to take the unearned. In all human relationships, social or political or economic or moral, a principle which is the antithesis of altruism: So long as the intellectuals held altruism actual nature and meaning of capitalism. They wealth is man's mind, that the fortunes intelligence, of creative ability. This soul-body dichotomy, to the contradiction denying it to the most active exponents of contradiction of promising to liberate man's regard the businessman as a vulgar materialist born to rule him, to control his life and The shabby monument to this premise was the of assuming the right to distribute that which an idea of that kind was the intellectuals' of rule by brute force, the totalitarian collectivist. code permits people to believe that it is the sake of others, they will reject capitalism cling to totalitarian statism of one kind Nazi or socialist or welfare. So long as men slaughter, devastation and destruction is still lack the courage to realize that capitalism--real, capitalism, not the mongrel mixed economy which mankind had almost achieved, then lost. if justice, progress, abundance, peace, safety capitalism is the ideal to live for and fight for. The truth which they refuse to face and to is the last stage of the struggle between world knows it. The most helplessly ignorant earth knows it in his own simple terms, though Any illiterate peasant knows it in any Russian-occupied bewilderment for his right to his scraggly leaders are the only ones who pretend not of promising mankind free speech, free factories, treasury, as if the masses of mankind were If we do not fight for capitalism, we have to offer the world. We have no cause, no crusade, position in international affairs--the evasiveness, greatest virtues of her system, implied in as if it were the skeleton in her closet--have and for the growing spread of communism through could ever accomplish. The morality of altruism is Russia's best is not becoming to the leader of a world And what do we ask men to fight for? They which means for capitalism versus socialism. socialism versus communism? Who will want which he will have to do voluntarily, or rather faster and more thoroughly: the sacrifice murder for the privilege of committing suicide? I quote from my article, "Choose Your Issues," "Neither a man nor a nation can have a practical to set its goals and to guide its course. its own principles, is floundering aimlessly and is merely reacting to the issues chosen affairs, the conservatives are unable to act and raised by the statists, thus accepting When the statists proclaim that their slave-system concede it and rush to urge people to sacrifice freedom--thus helping the statists and their freedom makes it possible for men to achieve that our first duty is to support the entire rush into debates on whether Asia, Africa, of our handouts. When certain statist of American self-esteem, dare go so far as without a fight, under the slogan "Better to proclaim that they prefer to be dead, thus is communism or destruction, forgetting that that kind is: "Better See the Reds Dead." In recent years, the conservatives have gradually in their position, of the philosophical flaws which they are attempting to correct it are three interrelated arguments used by today's can best be designated as the argument from faith, the argument from tradition, the argument from depravity. Sensing their need of a moral base, many conservatives decided to choose religion as their moral justification. They are claiming that freedom, Politically, such a claim contradicts In America, religion is a private matter and must not be brought into political issues. Intellectually, to rest one's case on faith one's enemies, to concede that there are which created this country, no rational justification and they can be accepted only on faith. While the communists are claiming that they conservatives concede it and retreat into surrendering this world to communism. It is ideology could never have won on its own merits. Now consider the second argument, the attempt Some people declare that to be a conservative the established, regardless of what it might right or wrong, defensible or indefensible. political system not because it is right but it is good but because it is old. America traditions and originated a system unprecedented power of their own intellect. But those neoconservatives the product of faith in revealed truth and the past. It is certainly irrational to use that an idea or a policy is good merely because irrational to use the old as a standard of good merely because it is ancient. The liberals the future, that they are new, progressive, conservatives as old-fashioned representatives it and thus help the liberals to propagate Collectivism and dictatorship, the frozen-status capitalism, the only free, dynamic, creative of passivity and stagnation. The plea to preserve in man and rejects the best. It appeals to rejects creativeness, originality, independence, address to human beings anywhere, but the based on the principle that man must stand and move constantly forward as a productive, This leads us to the third and the worst argument to defend freedom on the ground of man's since men are weak, fallible, non-omniscient, with the responsibility of being a dictator free society is the proper way of life for exact meaning of this argument. Since men are depraved, they are not good enough for a dictatorship. Freedom is all that they deserve. of a totalitarian state. Dictatorship, this result of faith in man and in man's goodness. nature, they would not entrust a dictator is what would protect their freedom. And more: the other disasters of the modern world are on his intellect and of attempting to improve system and a rational society. Thus humility, are the bulwarks of capitalism. This is in the midst of our industrial civilization. by stealth, without letting the country realize what road they are taking to what ultimate goal. And while such a policy is reprehensible, the policy of the so-called conservatives to defend freedom by stealth. If the liberals proper name--if they advocate every specific but squirm and twist themselves into semantic pretzels with such euphemisms as the welfare state, the New Deal, the New Frontier--they of morality. It is the logic of a con man his purpose. Besides, most liberals are afraid advocate is statism. They do not want to know dictatorship and slavery. So they evade the issue for fear of discovering that their goal is evil. Immoral as this might be, what is fear of discovering that their goal is good? afraid to know or to proclaim that they are and the integrity of those who outdo their at and apologizing for their own ideals? What trick people into freedom, cheat them into into preserving their rights, and while indoctrinating let them wake up in a perfect capitalist society many of today's conservatives. Gentlemen, if you want to save capitalism, should adopt, the only one that has ever won Check your premises, convince yourself of capitalism with full moral certainty. I quote &quot;The world crisis of today is a moral crisis--and nothing less than a moral revolution can resolve it: a moral revolution to sanction and complete the political achievement of the American Revolution. We must fight for capitalism, economic issue, but, with the most righteous deserves, and nothing less will save it." I should like to suggest that you begin by logical, rational criteria of judgment that You do not judge business issues by emotional standards; do not do it in regard to ideological issues. You do not build factories by the guidance guide your political convictions. You do not do not put out an inferior product because do not do it in political philosophy. Do not to be false, in a hope of appealing to people's cheat people in business; do not try to do is uncommonly perceptive. You do not doubt it in the realm of ideology. Do not let the intimidate you or discourage you. Do not conclude "it must be deep because I don't understand it,&quot; or "if this is what intellectual Ideas are the greatest and most crucially You do not hire men as heads of your business departments without firsthand knowledge of the nature of their jobs and of how to judge their performance; department. Learn to judge whether the stuff they are selling you is poison or not. You do not hire witch doctors as mechanics or engineers; do not hire them as PR's. Know how to tell your friends from your enemies. Know whom to support in philosophical and political issues. If you are unable to speak disgraceful injustice of such evils as the or support the philosophy of your own destroyers. Give some thought to the possibility of establishing And if you still wish to have a social mission or purpose, there is no greater service that you can render mankind than by fighting for your own rights and property. Businessmen are the one group that distinguishes the totalitarian statism that is swallowing groups--workers, professional men, scientists, though they exist in chains, in terror, in But there is no such group as businessmen by armed thugs, by bureaucrats and commissars. the symbol of America. If and when you perish, a chance to save it if you accept the noble and announce it proudly to the hearing of