Hey guys it's Carol welcome back to my channel and welcome to San Salvador, El Salvador's AMAZING City Tour Hey guys so we are here at the Hyatt Centric here in San Salvador, El Salvador. The Hyatt Centric San Salvador is one of the newest hotels and an extremely modern addition to San Salvador. Come let me show you around our room. Everything in this hotel is so detail-oriented all of the art is inspired by El Salvador. Surf City references are everywhere. Let me show you around and let's start here in the bathroom. Come on. This is our bathroom, it's an open concept but it feels more like a spa. Over here is the shower this is awesome I could live in here I think it's bigger than my first apartment. All the shampoo and body wash that you need is in here too. Made in Italy, very nice. There's a bench, overhead shower, and a handheld shower. So cool. Over here are the sinks and this mirror...it even lights up. We have a blow dryer, a robe, everything you could possibly need. And the &quot;bathroom&quot; part of the bathroom even has his own little compartment here so it's very private. Let's check out the sleeping area just behind us over here. This is the sleeping/living area and this This bed is super comfortable too and all of this art...this is what I was Can you see a turtle in here? Because I can. These chairs are really comfortable but this view man this is just breathtaking You can really tell that we're in the Heart of the City here La Gran Via is right behind me It's really centrally located everything It's a really awesome location and I love the fact that there's complimentary water and coffee They have their own Keurig maker and they even made their own specialty blend of coffee check it out you guys There's a mini fridge and a safe for all of your valuables There's Wi-Fi an AC and check out this giant Television This desk is actually inspired by a surfboard Cowabunga dude because we are here as a family we don't just have this room we have the adjoining room right over here for the girls I want to show you guys come on let's check it out The girls Suite is actually directly attached to ours which is a cool option as a family because you know that your children are close by so you can sleep Totally Secure at night but you also get your own privacy which is pretty awesome They have their own ensuite with all of the awesome amenities including the walk-in shower with dual shower heads all the shower gels and shampoos that they could need but the layout in here is slightly different because they actually get their own beds as well there's two beds in this room They have their own awesome view as well Miss Phoenix is displaying that over and Luna is displaying their own desk area with their with their -I'm playing taca boca - with their tablet surfboard desk They also have their own flat screen TVs so they can watch cartoons tonight While Carlos and I get to watch whatever we want for a change it is epic but there's so much to see and do here you guys I cannot wait to show you around let's check it out So we are going to take advantage of the fact that we are here at the Hyatt Centric in the middle of San Salvador and we are going to go on an AMAZING City Tour with That Expat Mom and we're gonna take you guys with us Okay everyone good morning My name is Gomez and today I'm going to be your tour guide so right now we move to the Historical Center it's at least 40 minutes - 30 minutes away okay I feel excited because I will explain a lot of things in in the Historical Center like the National Palace, The National Theater, um different Squares you will see there so if you have questions please just let me know I'm here to answer everything So we are on our way Downtown San Salvador to go on The AMAZING City Tour with &quot;That Expat Mom&quot; You guys I am so excited! We are officially launching our tours El Salvador AMAZING Tours so if you head on over to www.ThatExpatMom.com You can check out all the tours that we have available including this one and I'm so excited to be able to kick it off with you guys while we're staying at the Hyatt Centric San Salvador one of our favorite partners that we're here to share with you guys She's mine. No one take her. She's mine. All mine. Like this building now the government owns like the local government owns the right and they are protecting it and I guess... kind of like restoring it? Yeah That's cool but you can see like cracks This is old Okay one thing you need to know is that in El Salvador we have earthquakes...right Yes So because of that unfortunately a lot of the architecture is destroyed and there are just a few buildings still with us these days...you know wow I'm so excited to be here because and this is the Historic Center We're going to take a look at a lot of awesome buildings a lot of history and architecture Welcome to the El Rosario Church Here we have the most beautiful church in Central America Why? Because if you see it has like a style Circle uh huh It has different glasses So those different glasses illuminate in different colors red blue green it's amazing Wow So apparently in order to enter the church you can't go in shorts oops I didn't know that, so we're gonna try to figure that out right now So we're about to enter the church They let me borrow this cool little skirt thing so I can enter because it's important to dress and make sure that you wear either knee length shorts or a skirt to enter This is beautiful I can't describe it it's just... Look...it goes all around It's just stunning...there are no words. There are no words. Look at the other side the same I'm just...I'm in awe I love this place. Love love beautiful. This place before it was the first cathedral in El Salvador okay Even in the year 1821 when it was our Independence like Salvadoran people Here the proceres...Proceres are the fathers of the country who made possible independence okay All those people they read the independence in this place Wow But in an earthquake the cathedral and after years they built this El Rosario Church The most beautiful Church in and they built it in the same spot that the cathedral that came down during Yeah exactly Wow So next I will show something back in the end of the church because there is a crypt a tomb Guess who was there? or who is there resting Is the President for Saint Matias Delgado who made possible Independence Wow You know who this is? This That's who he is. It's who freed Central America What?! This place is breathtaking This is breathtaking. It is so beautiful and everyone is so nice. You have to wear a mask to enter right now and you should cover your knees if you're a woman wear pants or a longer skirt or shorts but they were nice enough to loan me this little scarf so I can appreciate everything you're seeing right now You have to see this for yourself At the monument you will see 2 different dates 5 of November 1811 - that is the day when the Proceres made the first law Independence okay Because they were wanting Independence like a republic like El Salvador 1911 is the 100 years after that day and they started building this place So we are in the oldest place in all of El Salvador From this place they start to build I will explain quickly... Here you see columns these ones we call them Portales Here we have three different Portales Occidental Portal La Dalia Portal and Occidente Portal In that building you will see a date. You will see 1885. So that's the day when they built that portal and then inside there in 1960 this other portal and what happened in this area So in this area it (Wait did anyone else see that?) (Let's play that back) (jajajajaja) So in this area it was the commercial So everyone sold like rice, corn, coffee, clothes, everything and the Salvadoran people came to San Salvador and they bought everything here Did you see that I had to duck a bird?! This one was the first bank in El Salvador Right now it's a library and a Museum It's closed because they are working on restoring the inside and their original bank is a couple of meters this way and right there's the Bitcoin CHIVO Good Afternoon This is AMAZING This is beautiful What do you think of this Luna? It's hot but I love the pigeons Right right now is the Rosario Church The First Cathedral it was there So for an Earthquake it fell down Then they started to build the second Cathedral under this one. Under this one Under? Because, yes the earthquake broke and destroyed everything. And here we have the third Cathedral it's the Divino Salvador del Mundo The Metropolitan Cathedral This is the biggest Cathedral - Church or Cathedral in El Salvador right now- It is so impressive. It is...it's stunning. There are three altars. There's the one directly in the back and then one on either side flanking. And every detail...I mean the ceiling is breathtaking The chandelier up front, it has Cupid faces all over it. It's just...it's beautiful. It is...it is breathtaking. Welcome to crypt for monsenor Romero This is a crypt, this is like a tomb and he is monsenor Romero What happened? Why are we here? So, monsenor Romero he was the priest in El Salvador So, we had a big trouble in the civil war between 1980 and 1992 12 years of Civil War and that moment we had trouble with the Army and Salvadoran people So, the most affected always in every and in this case it was the Salvadoran people that were affected So, in that moment monsenor Oscar Arnulfo Romero supported the poor Because the poor people were affected by the Civil War So, the army...for the Army it was something bad The Army took the decision to kill him He was in the middle of the ceremony and someone wasn't at the house and for that reason someone was with a big gun and they shot him The bullet went through his heart and that's moment he passed away after years the Pope declared him a Saint monsenor Romero monsenor Romero is the only Saint in El Salvador For that reason he is the most Even we have the name of our National Airport The National Airport Airport monsenor Oscar Arnulfo Romero y Galdamez (SAL) The biggest highway in El Salvador has the same name Monsenor Oscar Arnulfo Romero Romero Those lines on the road are for blind people so that they can walk safely down the road How cool is that?! So thoughtful. Ooh What's there? This is so beautiful I love how the architecture is being restored So everything is turning shiny and new but it's still respecting the architectural It's...it's stunning it's stunning This is is an amazing square and you have to come here! It's amazing! The enviroment, the music, the restaurant, the food, the Salvadoran kitchen over there Yeah I can smell everything So we just finished The AMAZING City It was incredible! I did not think that I would learn so much about El Salvador when we were there But it was...it was just AMAZING What was your favorite part Lu? Chasing the pigeons Chasing the pigeons What about the rainbow Church? What about the guy who was dressed up like a statue? That was cool too? They are tired they walked their little feet off but they had fun We had a blast! I highly highly recommend this trip! That Expat Mom approved and That Expat Mom Tours on the website go check them out right now at www.ThatExpatMom.com This pool is crazy it's on the roof and it's an infinity pool it feels like you're gonna swim right off the building but it's epic The sun right now is starting to go down and it's just beautiful out Luna stop stop Burger! ooh That looks good! Yeah it does How are you enjoying your &quot;mini&quot; burger that is the same size as you? What about you Miss Lu? Do you need me to cut that for you? Yes I can't pick it up Is it good? Delicious huh? That's massive! Delicious! I give it 1,000 thumbs up I concur, 1,000 thumbs up it deserves no less...it's just HUGE I am heading back to the room now I just finished my workout Gunna take a quick shower and get ready because it's time to go to this amazing breakfast buffet that I've heard so much about um about to get on the elevator again though I'm not a fan of elevators Let's do this together okay? 8th floor almost there We made it! yeah So we are on our way to breakfast now This way sweetie We are showered and ready to start the day so let's check out this Buffet Oh look I rhymed! I really didn't mean to do that So yummy? Yummy in your tummy? I grew up back and forth between San Diego and Las Vegas and so I'm no stranger to a good Buffet but this isn't a good Buffet this is an AMAZING Buffet Yum This is incredible Delicious Yummy! Now this is what a breakfast should look like at the hotels I got waffles! If you don't do the breakfast buffet they also have 24 hour pupusas here Look at this Guys you can see we're checking out just kidding...those aren't our bags, our bags are already in the car but we are checking out unfortunately I'm so sad to leave this has been an epic trip Totally 100% Honestly this is.... Yeah we don't want to go! We don't want to leave! The food is so good, the bed is so comfortable, the pool was so much fun We don't want to go! Do you want to leave? No No. Everyone's bummed out. We don't want to go. the beds are so comfy but we'll be back and we highly recommend you make your way over here Everything in this hotel is so detail-oriented That was loud... there is...blag blah blah its own spectral...blah blah blah Okay, that's hilarious! I just about had a heart attack I don't know if you guys know this but I am terrified of elevators and I pressed the button to go to the eighth floor we are on the top and it started moving and then it stopped and I'm like and we couldn't get it to open... we couldn't...and then Carlos remembered you got to use the key yeah the key! blooper blooper blooper Yup, heart's still working mustachio The mustachio goes down here under your nose noooo mustachio mustachio What is that Phoenix? mustachio mustachio mustachio...mustachio...MUSTACHIO Ice Ice... Baby