This course focuses on Elasticsearch, but other technologies that are related to Elasticsearch. Together with Elasticsearch, they form what's talk a bit about that. If you already know what the Elastic Stack then you are welcome to skip this lecture, The Elastic Stack consists of technologies Elasticsearch. We just talked about Elasticsearch, which that the technologies that I am about to tell although it's optional for some of them. However, there is a strong synergy between together for various purposes. Alright, so let's begin by talking about Kibana is an analytics and visualization platform, Elasticsearch and analyze it to make sense You can think of Kibana as an Elasticsearch such as pie charts, line charts, and many You can plot your website's visitors onto You can aggregate website traffic by browser to support based on your particular audience. Kibana is also where you configure change in the previous lecture. Kibana also provides an interface to manage and authorization. Generally speaking, you can think of Kibana within Elasticsearch. It uses the data from Elasticsearch and basically that I previously mentioned. It just provides an interface for building display the results. This can save you a lot of time because you You can build dashboards where you place a You can create a dashboard for system administrators such as CPU and memory usage. You can then create a dashboard for developers and API response times. A third dashboard could be a dashboard with for management, keeping track of how the business As you can see, you are likely to store a apart from data that you want to search and In fact, you might not even use Elasticsearch using it as an analytics platform together use case as well. On your screen now, you can see a couple of you an idea of what it looks like. I cannot cover all of the features of Kibana of the Elastic Stack. There is a public demo of Kibana though, which So if you are curious to see what it looks I have attached a link to it to this lecture. Next up, we have a tool named Logstash. Traditionally, Logstash has been used to process hence the name. That's still a popular use case, but Logstash meaning that Logstash is a data processing The data that Logstash receives, will be handled They could be log file entries, ecommerce These events are then processed by Logstash A couple of examples could be Elasticsearch, HTTP endpoint. A Logstash pipeline consists of three parts Each stage can make use of a so-called plugin. An input plugin could be a file, for instance, a given file. It could also be that we are sending events rows from a relational database, or listen There are a lot of input plugins, so chances Okay, so while input plugins are how Logstash how Logstash should process them. Here we can parse CSV, XML, or JSON, for instance. We can also do data enrichment, such as looking location, or look up data in a relational An output plugin is where we send the processed Formally, those places are called stashes. You can see a couple of examples on the right-hand So in a nutshell, Logstash receives events sends them to one or more stashes. You can have multiple pipelines running within and Logstash is horizontally scalable. A Logstash pipeline is defined in a proprietary It's not only a markup language, however, and make a pipeline dynamic. Let's go through a simple example before Suppose that we want to process access logs We can instruct Logstash to read the access This is easy by using the input plugin named lecture, there is a handy tool named Beats Once Logstash has received a line, we can A line from an access log file contains various the line as a text string, so we need to parse In other words, we need to structure this What we can do, is to write a so-called Grok expression, to match pieces of text and store This means that we can have a field for the for the IP address, and so on. This is very useful, because wherever we want don't want to send a long text string. Suppose that we want to send the log entries fields for each of the pieces of information So for an access log entry, the document could So that was an example of a common use case process them, and send the results to Elasticsearch, Of course Logstash can do much more than this, Next up, let's talk about a part of the X-Pack is actually a pack of features that and Kibana. It adds functionality in various feature areas, First, we have security. X-Pack adds both authentication and authorization In regards to authentication, Kibana can integrate to provide authentication. You can also add users and roles, and configure This is very useful, as different people might For example, a marketing department or management any changes to data, but should have read-only Next up, X-Pack enables you to monitor the Logstash, and Kibana. Specifically, you can see CPU and memory usage, which enable you to stay on top of the performance What's more, is that you can even set up Alerting is not specific to the monitoring up alerting for anything you want. For example, you might want to be alerted go through the roof, or if there is a spike Or perhaps you want to stay on top of suspicious signed in from three different countries within You can then be notified by e-mail, Slack, With reporting, you can export the Kibana You can generate reports on demand, or schedule your e-mail inbox. You might want daily or weekly reports of or any useful information to engineers or Reports can also be triggered by specifying define rules for when the reports should be You can even have the reports generated with or perhaps for sharing reports with customers. Apart from exporting visualizations and data CSV files, which could be useful for importing X-Pack is also what enables Kibana to do the previous lecture. So basically, the functionality is provided Let's quickly recap on what you can do with First, we can do abnormality detection, such on what the neural network believes is normal. This can be tied together with alerting, so the number of daily visits to our website. If there is a significant drop - or increase and we can optionally be notified by e-mail The other thing we can do, is to forecast This is especially useful for capacity planning, website is going to get in the future. This could be helpful for spinning up additional more support agents available. An example could be that a webshop gets a due to Black Friday and Christmas sales. Next, let's talk about a feature called Graph is all about the relationships in your An example could be that when someone is viewing to show related products on that page as well. Or perhaps suggest the next song in a music the listener likes. For example, if you like The Beatles, there But to make this work, it is important to Suppose that a lot of people listen to Linkin every now and then. That does not suggest that the two are related, by the fact that they are both relatively For example, if you go out on the street and them will say yes. But that doesn't mean that they have anything is so popular for all kinds of different people. On the other hand, if you ask ten people if yes do have something in common, because Stackoverflow is specifically related to programming. So essentially what we are looking for, is the uncommonly common, because that says something about relevance and not popularity. The point is that purely looking at the relationships That's why Graph uses the relevance capabilities related and what isn't. Graph exposes an API that you can use to integrate Apart from the aforementioned examples, another example could be to send out product recommendations in a newsletter based on a person's purchase Graph also provides a plugin for Kibana where This is both very useful when you know what more useful when you don't. The UI lets you drill down, navigate, and maybe didn't know existed. So that's a quick introduction to Graph. It works out of the box, so you don't need anything to use it. The last feature of X-Pack is one named SQL. If you have worked with relational databases, being SQL. In Elasticsearch, we query documents with This is essentially a JSON object defining The Query DSL is really flexible and you can verbose at times. For developers who come from a background be easier to just work with SQL, wouldn't That's possible, so you can send SQL queries use the provided JDBC driver. What Elasticsearch does, is to translate the the scenes, so internally the query is handled What's cool, is that there is a Translate Elasticsearch will respond with the Query So if you need some help writing the Query it, and get a great starting point for your That's a great way to get started if you Personally, I see this as a helper tool for Once you get familiar with the Query DSL, that's just my personal opinion. And that's it for X-Pack! Finally, right? Now we just have one thing left to cover; Beats is a collection of so-called data shippers. They are lightweight agents with a single then send data to Logstash or Elasticsearch. There are a number data shippers - called and serve different purposes. For example, there is a beat named Filebeat, sending the log entries off to either Logstash Filebeat ships with modules for common log or MySQL. This is very useful for collecting log files Another beat worth mentioning, is Metricbeat, You can use it for collecting CPU and memory running on the system as well. Metricbeat also ships with modules for popular monitor how they perform. There are more beats available as you can the ones that are most commonly used, so be you need something other than we have just Alright, so let's put all of the pieces The center of it all is Elasticsearch which Ingesting data into Elasticsearch can be done through Elasticsearch's API. Kibana is a user interface that sits on top data that it retrieves from Elasticsearch There is nothing Kibana does that you cannot retrieves is accessible through the Elasticsearch That being said, it's a really powerful as you probably won't have to build your Then we have X-Pack which enables additional and Kibana, or management of Logstash pipelines This is all referred to as the Elastic Stack. You might, however, have heard of something This refers to Elasticsearch, Logstash, and used together. The term originates from before there was what is now known as the Elastic Stack. So the Elastic Stack is a superset of the refer to the Elastic Stack. As you can hopefully see, covering all of as each of these tools provide so many capabilities, course, I would just barely scratch the surface. Now that you know what the Elastic Stack is some common architectures and how these technologies are used together.