The value of what we do as Where do you think architectural Like what's going to happen with them? At the moment, they are tools. Maybe they'll cross the line Does that mean that the physical ways of pushing back on this, this new technology? I mean, yeah, if I was a rendering I mean, it's true. AI hasn't really taken over. That's a good question. Now so much has been discussed about potentially take over the industry. But it's one thing hearing a ton of And it's another thing, actually forefront of this new technology. And this special collab between we bring you Olly Thomas, the design This conversation with Olly goes into will likely face in the upcoming years and Oli also dives into what he sees as the at the moment and how that might evolve. And you will even hear how AI is most innovative architecture firms. This conversation really changed moment of AI in architecture have an impact on you as well. All right. So, but I wanted to start from the something about switching from the BIM position within BIG, Bjarke Ingels Group. How did that come to life? Like what happened? Did you train to that position? Is this something that naturally that you're interested? I mean, I joined BIG They hired me, but they knew I had this. This other skill set of Like I stayed at that It got to a point where we were kind And we actually see this Like you're now getting people and all this other kind of stuff. So my title switched from a BIM specialist Now I'm a design technology means I cover BIM computation. AI, AR, VR, and all of this stuff. It's our umbrella term for. technology that we use to design things. And more recently, I've been kind of stuff and trying to implement it into in itself, just keeping up with it and like as, as quick as we can really, no training to get into anything to Computer science or something like just been a case of like seeing this and just trying to Keep up with what's Really that that's it. Yeah. Because when we went to the office, Daniel and Daniel told us that they were journey into their design process, just testing out the tools, how that was like. Three months ago, but then we see that So how has things changed now? How do you guys actually use AI within Of course, the first thing was to get up I mean, we started to latch on, So we're talking about. Mid journey version three, when looked like watercolor painted style. Do you remember that? Um, and then obviously mid journey And it was around that time where I Of course, people already So we use what we call a big school, from the office presents like, Hey. Uh, this is this AI thing. I kind of give a background of what a much broader perspective of like And then more specifically, like, And then we, at that time we were stable diffusion, and the first goal What happens if we type in Bjork Ingalls our Design or not, um, and get it into that some of them used it on the product. Some of them kind of just People created funny memes. People created like fun That's always the goal is to just it's and or like I guess for those of you and passing it on to the designers and it right where we are now, I think we're things, like constantly seeing how the process, keeping up to date with all the guys were experimenting with D5 rendering So we quickly need to test that get into the hands of designers? So I think we're still very much up to date and really seeing how There is a little bit more of tinking, We did experiment with connecting our uh, StableDiffusion when we can connect Um, and these are always like tests, developers, so we're kind of like Can we send a screenshot from Um, at the moment, of course, With mid journey, but it's very really seeing how we can integrate Of course, I think we're at the point now is like now training your own model on the Of course, you want this to be somewhat but, uh, but that's, of course, train models in different ways. You can download them for free So, uh, you know, we're seeing lots of the materials they have and seeing how So it's constantly a trial testing, Useful or how disrupted it is to So that means that it's mostly process in the preliminary stages, But do you see a place where AI or like those more laborious tasks? As in detailing, uh, maybe scheduling you could be experimenting with? So I, I think I'm trying, I've, I've these AI stuff, these AI tools, right? And let's take mid journey, for example. I think Mid Journey is most It's great to like, you come up with close to that and most importantly, Um, at the same time, the value of what at BIG is still the thinking. The, the researching behind these things and the, the things around it and coming based on thinking that's where architects, biggest value and truth be told, this, things, It's not necessarily affecting in like there is no thinking behind it. It's an image. Yes, the end result of our design render or diagram or something Is in the thinking behind it journey has not disrupted that, like sidekick for idea generation. Like it, it could be, you know, you a particular thing you're thinking an idea or something like that. So I do see a lot of architects is like a super Pinterest. It's kind of like, uh, yeah. An idea in a more curated version. Exactly. Yeah. And, and of course the, the the more powerful that becomes. So there's one category, And I think, um, maybe mid, mid jetty kind And then the next way I kind of see AI automation, and we're seeing bits dumbest way is like, you can now go to of text and it formats it for you. Obviously, that's a very simple way. But it's like, it's saving you the things, or maybe go to chat, GPT regulations or something like that. And it actually gives Of course you have to cross check Um, we're also seeing these like apps generation and all this kind of stuff, AI, but it's giving us a glimpse into stuff that we spend a lot of time doing. Uh, I always talk about like a Clippy, you. I don't know if you guys Clippy, but I'll say that. No, no, no. Talk to me about Mr. Clippy. I don't remember. I do, I do. What happened to Mr. Clippy, man? He's gone. But like, I imagine Mr. Clippy could come back in Revit and be stairs so that they're building, they of the world you're, you're working in. Right. So we then have like the AI automation chat, dbt would be the simplest example. You see a lot of people building but really they're just connected know how much are really using. And then finally, I think you've got maybe side, which is almost also flirting with more stable diffusion, I guess now, uh, You got RAs, uh, look, look X ai, the uh, AI where you can be very much more like you can be very surgical on, uh, Let's just take the Photoshop I no longer need to spend hours looking correct position at the correct sun. Yes, well, but I was Have you, have you had any Because every time people, they, uh, a hard time in getting Yeah, it seems of the AI stuff seems to be, there's of the head or something like that, Um, but of course, sometimes it can be trees and, uh, and all this kind of stuff. But again, that's, that's like a bit we're potentially the most powerful where we're starting to see, like, massing or something that is, that is you're adding value as an architect. And then it's, it's quickly allowing like different moods of the image. Uh, I think, I think it was Steven. I was watching your video on where image with D five and then you'd gone So that's like the third category, which idea iteration and also automation where. It's basically streamlining Yeah, I find that part like super, because as you said, in the design of, uh, real estate there to grasp, But in terms of visualization. Uh, when we see things like D five, Enscape and more, uh, render engines, use AI and with mid journey and how getting, where do you think architectural Like. That's a good, that's a good question. Yeah. Um, I actually had, uh, Jan Bunger from, podcast and he wrote a paper called the, of renderers, uh, a little while ago. And, um, I mean, yeah, if I be sweating a little bit. I mean, yeah, it's, it's a great We have real time rendering and that more control back to us, you think, the whole V Ray thing and set it up. And now you can create Yeah, maybe not like. You know, super, super production level, quite incredible images very quickly. And that meant that as an architect, control of, of visualizing. Now with AI, I think, you know, quality stuff from, from Midjourney. The thing is, Midjourney is super Good but you can't necessarily get the control You don't quite have that level of quality I think that it's honestly, I don't know be a little bit more Worried than I am The, the vis, the good visualization story and the thinking behind the image. Yeah. Um, so I actually think, like, for something like that, I see that we'll just to their advantage to, to continue that. So, uh, I do think it comes down the thinking behind that image? Yeah, basic renders, they're those, those people that are really Yeah, those that have a high level of behind it, maybe the specifics of, of behind it, because as of right now, and I will change, but you cannot control that. I sometimes feel that all of tend to have a similar style. You look at them and they all feel As of right now, it's not really a good it will give us a more of a range That's super interesting because I've, I've, um, I think you need to get to it. Good level of, I call Yeah. Some of the good people like the, you this kind of stuff, they have developed Um, but I have myself, like I've, I've know, you sit there on a Sunday and And then you, you go down this then I've been online and I've seen. Someone's created an idea that, an idea that I've generated. And it's almost like you're come up with these things. And so you do start to see this, um, this And I wonder if that's like At the prompting and, and, and the that maybe the corner of it is like style that is kind of repeating his Do you think like, because right and there are people getting hired skills, but don't you think AI will So then it's kind of a, uh, Cycle gets better, the images get better. And then that prompting skill doesn't agree with that or, or no, we already three, mid journey four, for example, I a prompt whisperer, um, and then V5 these, these kinds of people, they were the slate clean because instead of description sentence, and then all these them like cyberpunk or ultra realistic. Do you remember the fire at the beginning? You used to see like, uh, V Ray render, this kind of stuff, but then V5 came and was not so the prompting got way simpler. And the results were still good. So I do think we're already seeing a fun experiment where we, we made actually for like a, a theme park. One of this, uh, one of the guys that And we asked chat TPT to like It was almost like And we gave it a brief to come And we then said, give me And then we piped it into mid like quite interesting images. And then it, we kind of We were like, Oh, well, we'll tell us this, in this project and stuff like that. And I've also done the same with, we're testing, like, what is the Create an image of what this would look So, um, it's, it's been quite interesting, those feedback loop of AI and that's But also a little bit That's what I was going to say. I mean like Us three, we seem future with AI because we see But what do you see like a recent a year before to go into an architectural drawing plans, then creating renders, How will they like their jobs change? I imagine that now, if you were an of AI prompting experience, it will go know how to use Revit really well. I'm actually more excited for them than they will not have to go through, well, through too much of the drawing plans You know, endless nights photoshopping to render the Worst render you've ever So, so already from my generation, like made the new generation's life so much And again, it comes back to the point thinking and adding value than being a, Endlessly modeling or photoshopping or to input more into the design process. So, uh, I mean, it is a more, it less concerned that, you know, AI is as architects, I actually think it We're actually good at and what we add the less being like wizards at CAD or BMO or So I'm more hopeful for them. But again, I think you have to, It's very important to learn You must learn the thinking process, but This kind of AI movement at all. Yeah. Whenever we open question boxes or comments, that topic always comes up. Uh, with that, with the worst scenario will lose their jobs, and maybe we're years, but maybe in five, 10 years. So you don't see it. I don't see it that way. At least I hope not. I see only as, as tools that will help us. Have more time to dedicate to what expected to be instead of wasting time tasks and will free us up to have, have So that's how I see it. That's, I think how And you, so that's not the case here. I guess that we'll lose our jobs That's always the topic. It's, it's, yeah, it's funny This will be the famous clip leads me because AI is like a But, uh, yeah, I mean, of course, absolutely going to disrupt the industry. Do not make a mistake about it. I do feel we're in. A very unique moment, uh, where Um, I did, uh, have post on our ATN And I, I feel like we, and how So I, I, I do think we'll see And, um, for example, I think. I think we're moving into what I, what So, which is architect 3. 0, this is stolen from the book life 3. 0, which is, uh, I highly recommend about general AI affecting, uh, life. Um, but I kind of stole that analogy equivalent where architect 1. 0 was when we're kind of the manual era. That was back in the day, so almost thousands, hundreds of people on a floor And, uh, then we had architect 2. 0, which is kind of the era we're use computers as somewhat psychics slaves to help us do things quicker. That could be, uh, AutoCAD grasshopper, grasshopper script is just, uh, you and it does it very much more quicker It's just like, uh, it's And so we were in the computer aided practice go from like a floor plate by hand to a much more diverse office office right now and big where everyone Um, and let's say anywhere from 10. To five to 15, depending on the size Whereas before that number, maybe 50, new era could be like much smaller, teams collaborate with AI to tackle. These similar products, and hopefully uh, array of different practices. Um, so I think, yeah, practices might more variation of, of practices. Um, I could definitely see Um. And actually, there's a, Um, I just did a podcast with, uh, uh, a company called, um, Um, she was called to check out, um, the podcast she did called, where her small team were using that they're kind of like a technology competitions using AI and with like a The competition and I felt that what I think the future will have. So it will disrupt us, but I like AI is taking over jobs. We might see a more interesting array I think, I think I have the book here. Which is in Portuguese, Max Tegmark's Life 3. 0. And I love the analogy between 0 in relation to architecture. That was really interesting. Yeah. And in a sort of way you see, um, like Like so many advanced tools within analog and going back to printing photos with their phone and trying to print manual workflow now that they know that How do you think that's going kind of phase where we are more Maybe hand drawings that are not but more for our design process. Yeah, I think that's getting back to So like, um, yeah, if you don't need photoshopping this, this image, it day sketching the actual idea, like Right. So I think, yeah, you, you, you could And, and I think you, you're also seeing to AI, they, they sketch and then can very their sketch, which again is, is that. idea iteration part where you can, you So yes, I do think you'll see more to drawing that kind of stuff. The, the thinking part, I do also Artisanal architects, like, like, do coming back and everyone's going back like making coffee artisanal, and then We were joking on a, on a podcast. I'm sure we'll see like You'll get a little T square tattoo on to use a computer and stuff like that. It's possibly because When we as a society go so much into over pushing this way of AI computers, always that, that pushback, that, method, more to manual creation. That's something that also came up with posted a lot of people saying, asking. So if AI is becoming so relevant. Does that mean that the physical ways a way of pushing back on this, this that's, that's the answer, right? Yeah, it could do. Yeah, I think it's always Because like, um, on one way you can in the office at big, it was, uh, it was called a, is a baby REM, right? Bianca worked at OMA. OMA was a very famous for those The fur models. And I think that was a completely big at the beginning, right? It was these blue fur models and actually. It was about the era when I joined all merged in the workshop and we models to 3D printed physical models. But it didn't really take away a physical model is to see it. Feel it and, and put it into a context. You can never beat seeing, uh, even you, even with VR and all this kind and feeling it and, and touching it. That's the valuable thing. Whether that's someone making that by printed, I could argue that actually of having that physical model is. It's, it's about having it So, uh, yeah, again, I think process will be digital, but, but Yeah. It's crazy that when you're talking about ago, you were talking about how the VR was you're trying to see like the type of Where is VR now with, you know, what Meta launched and where it's of architecture and design, where So the VR and AR side, I think, technology that we have right now. Um, still, I think people struggle Yeah, it's it's always a little bit you one person has a headset on they they don't know what's going on. But it does have value that you can you be in that space and things like that. I do think we're in the era like have is kind of like the era when. You know, maybe our, our parents Like we're in that era of, Um, and actually I was a little bit I thought theirs was going to be slicker, Like glasses or something, but of course technology will, will really take off. I mean, VR, of course, it's It's, it's still being used. I wouldn't say it's a, a core part of it at the right time and when products It's again, like when there's AR side is much more about being Um, and of course we We've been using it on our headquarters where we are the designers, but we're overlay a big model and stuff like that. So there's some really interesting Um, but I think the most interesting everyone is like FOMOing. Over AI right now is what's I think is, is super exciting. Um, and I, I, and I wonder maybe The next era of VR and AR and all there's some incredible stuff going people that don't have like any idea of all, like unreal five unleashed You know, and, and handle huge Um, and we're also seeing lots of plugins Now you can, I think you can maps and put it into unreal. And so. Again, now you, you in theory, no longer could, you could download, um, like a high Um, I think that there's, There's also. NVIDIA's Omniverse, which is super it's, it's kind of like a game engine but you see, um, people bringing things into this place called the Omniverse and the computational power that NVIDIA have. But yeah, there's, there's loads of stuff The quality and the real time Of course you got like all the and all this kind of stuff. It's um, it seems to be a And I, I think everyone's looking Unreal stuff is, is as exciting. Um, and eventually We'll combine that's where That's where we realized that we're all Yeah. Yeah. That's where the life 3. 0 book really starts to kind of make Wow. We're just speculating, right? Because AI evolved so rapidly every three powering in I mean, it's capabilities. So we don't, we don't know, like in five Uh, yeah, I, you know, this Like no one can predict I mean, maybe, maybe these people that are I, I did, I've had a few conversations some of these tools and, you know, Of course, 3D is, is Um, you type in things and you You might get a 3D thing, but still would be very basic to get to the level You're not talking about You're talking like a very accurate. Accurate model if you're talking And so I do think we're a long way from There are already some examples kind of text to BIM things. It's very. rudimentary, but it's, but it's a But I do think we have a little bit typing in and a BIM model appears. Like on a, on a lighter note, use AI on your day to day? Because for example, I, I feel like I have And I ask her questions, like Uh, you know, I, I like in my writing like, Hey, like, how do I automate, And they give me answers. I find it very, very useful and it's It's more like business management. How do you personally like use AI? It's probably the same. Like, uh, we all, we all now uh, that we're all using. And even if it's something as um, I'm not the best writer. So it's, it's super interesting to And like you say, like speed up the Um, I think, uh, obviously Trying to help in the office. I'm trying to help the designers use it. So I may, I may be like just teaching do you change the aspect ratio of an image Like they have an image they want So I'm like, okay, well, if you set this reinvent your image if you set it low. Um, so I'm, I'm spending more time and, and, or getting them up to speed And then I say on a day to basis, okay, I have an, I have an idea. I think I most enjoy using it personally. Like, like many architects, you you're like, man, I wish I had like script it and create some images and. Enscape or yeah, or unreal or now I can sit down and be like, skyscraper of containers in Hong Kong? What would that look like? And, and, and you're like, I can get Um, but it's that last bit that you to come in and like, I want to refine Um, so yeah, I think those are It's like one production, uh, it's Two is, is helping and teaching to and three personally, I've just and like visualizing ideas really. So funny. Like saying thank you to Just in case they in the They come back. He always said, thank you. Oliver was nice. So let's not do it to him. I always say, thank you. Yeah. How about, how about you guys? How has AI affected what you guys do as, Right. Like, um, has it affected the Um, editing time or, or have you creating reels and stuff like that. I've never tried it, but have you advice for other creators out there? Like, has it affected I think the tool that I mostly generative feel with, uh, like making from an image that will take it. At least 30 to an hour, 30 I tried to be to your force. And I think Steven is much, How about you? Yeah, well, I've tried to use, um, a like the basic ones are the ones that And, uh, for your reels and think in, in, uh, in Premiere. I don't know if that's AI or not, but Like old video ads, captions, and So I've been using that. I've also been using, um, chat to generate trying to tell a story through a video, of how I'm trying to tell the story. And then I'm like, Hey, Could you maybe restructure it to Or are there any other possible ways, And then. What else? I think I'm maybe, yeah, just more like administrative tasks. ChatGPT is helping a lot. You've used that video image I remember you posted something. Oh, Runway. Yeah. Runway, yeah. Talked about that. I used it recently, and I mean, I used the free version, so like 70, 720 pixels, but I know that can have with your still render Like, if you go into Twitter, there are many out of runway mid journey in chat GPT. And they're really high quality movies. And they're, they're amazing, wanted, you could use it for the You just export five different renders And that's it. I do think that's something Mariana brought this up in a. And the podcast I did with her, algorithms feeding algorithms. And of course, one of the things generation stuff is this explosion of Um, and of course there is something to post, let's say you need to post to grow and like to create a project. Every day is hard work, even if you, even images out of it or something, it's a lot, Now you can create a hundred ideas in one have to like, and now we're seeing, you images is feeding this other algorithm, the YouTube algorithm or whatever's. I guess it's less, less YouTube, quite interesting in that. And I do wonder how that will I think it goes back to that idea that into the digital way of thinking that on, on the manual way of doing stuff. So I think that you see more and more a hundred, a hundred ideas in a day. Yeah. So, but I, so I think the human part to prevail in some sense, and it's end of the day, because in a couple of interacting with AI generated content. So where's the, the And I think those are going to gain Because of that saturation of AI to again, the thinking like you guys, create the videos and the content, the viewers, whereas like, uh, and, and gets interesting when I understand a bit rather than it's just people posting. Yeah. Endless, endless images. Uh, and I think that those also seem to So yeah, hopefully it's the You would be really interesting to have a, in a year or two, obviously we're imagine like seeing these predictions like how, how did that evolve and. Yeah, I'll be right about it or or something cause I've got no job. Yeah, you know. Uh, but yeah, one way or another, a very interesting time, a very Um. And I think there's a lot of opportunity new, or we might see new types of the biological brain and, uh, the come together and create things that Um, so yeah, I think it's scary. I keep saying this, this But also very exciting at the same time. Yeah, it's true. Um, and I think the most important thing to this and maybe Confused or not sure Like, uh, try it out. Um, I think I was talking to Like this is just the beginning. It's it, you're not too late to jump in UBT. These are the tools that we have now, who It will of course help you to So I think that's the key thing is, tools, whether you like them or not. Uh, at the moment they are tools, a tool to a collaborator very soon. You could argue, maybe they Um, but I think the most important thing and test them out and don't ignore it.