I'm on my way to Finland on Finnair, which I've always wanted to do. This is actually my first time traveling abroad with him. Not fighting is my goal for this trip It's a 13 hour air trip from Tokyo Arrival at Vantaa Airport in Helsinki. Not many people because it's an early morning arrival for a late night flight. Heading toward the center of Helsinki. Arriving at Helsinki Central Station! We can't check in yet, so we just leave our luggage at the hotel. I have some time before breakfast, so I go for a walk. This is my first trip to Europe in my life, and the city is so pretty . Mornings in Finland seem to be relatively slow. We went into the market, which was barely empty. It seems to be positioned as a Japanese convenience store. I was sucked into the bread section because I was starving Ekberg is said to have been frequented by Moomin writer Tove Jansson. The oldest cafe in Helsinki. I came here for these cinnamon rolls. He is going to have the morning buffet. Big cinnamon rolls make me happy in the morning. I want to compare cinnamon rolls from different stores on this trip to Finland. View of the Kamppi Chapel from outside, then on to the Moomin store. Today is shopping day. I want matching socks with him: I am determined to buy a Moomin mug. For now, I look at various stores and imagine what I want to buy. If I don't make a selection I'll end up buying everything . I'd love a mug with the unikko pattern too! There are so many cute things to worry about. We came to my favorite interior design store. We also found Isamu Noguchi's lighting! Only here is a space like Japan. The Scandinavian style interior is so cute! Marimekko's products and atmosphere are totally different depending on the store. For some reason I got turned on in this store and did a lot of shopping . The discount was only good for one purchase, but when we told them we wanted to buy something at another store, they were able to include that as well . He patiently took me shopping . Bought a coat and a backpack at another store. I have been shopping at top speed since day one They also had a few vintage dishes. None of the stores are crowded, so you can shop at your leisure. He seems to want this glass. The classic TEEMA is still pretty And his favorite sauna goods store. Helsinki Cathedral was under construction. Scandinavian textile store. A wide variety of household goods make you happy just by being there. A basket bag store that happened to have a pop-up. It was so bulky that I gave up this time but it was cute! After a quick shopping trip, we checked into the hotel. Stayed at this St. George hotel with Marriott Bomboy points. The location is very nice and the rooms are stylish and exciting. The windows look out onto the courtyard. We are exhausted after shopping like crazy, so we order room service. During this trip I will eat as much as I want of what I like without worrying about gaining weight. It doesn't look good I ordered a BLT sandwich. I made reservations for dinner in advance from Japan. The kale chips on top of the meat tartare were delicious . Risotto seems to be the restaurant's signature dish! If anyone is traveling to Helsinki, I would recommend this store with all my might! The fish dishes were also delicious . Dessert was rosemary ice cream. It's rare to find ice cream with herbs as the main ingredient. I was surprised at how delicious it was! Breakfast on the second day was at the hotel buffet. When I hear "buffet" I get all worked up I had heard that salmon is delicious in Scandinavia, but it is much better than I imagined! I love bread, so it doesn't bother me if I have bread every day. He says he feels safe with croissants . Dessert will come later. Plenty of coffee is nice. Eating heartily in the morning. I ordered an omelette for my egg dish. Thinly cooked eggs with lots of bacon and spinach. This trip also lifts the ban on my favorite Nutella. We go shopping for souvenirs for my family. I have to buy souvenirs early For my niece and nephew I got enameled mugs for camping. Here we are at the Arabia factory, a short distance from the center of Helsinki. On the top floor of the museum you can see the history of Arabia and Iittala. You can also get a coupon here for 15% off for use in the souvenir store. The shop is not that large, but it has all the standard items. Vintage items were also available. He liked this glass. By the way, if you want to get duty free in Finland, you must never open anything you buy. Please note that the duty free counter at the airport will check if the item is unopened. For dinner, he takes me to a Korean restaurant where he wants to eat barbecued meat. The waiter gave us an extra drink. Bakery attached to the hotel. The concept of the bread display and cafe space is very nice. I will have a cinnamon roll today. We decide to share the salmon sandwich and the cinnamon roll. The fatty salmon melts in your mouth. By the way, I ate a lot of cinnamon rolls on this trip, but the cinnamon rolls from St. George Bakery were the best! Shopping for the day. Stylish textiles with Japanese taste. There happened to be a Japanese sales clerk who gave me a lot of information about Helsinki. Talking about interior design with him. By the way, Johanna's store gives you a discount in advance for the tax-free portion of your purchase, so you can use your purchase right then and there! From here, the journey to find tableware. There were many bargains to be had here! I found some insanely cute tableware Also bought a demitasse cup that he loved. We are both very happy to find something we each like. My favorite kitchen utensil store. The store is filled with kitchen utensils, it's like a dream. Finland has a culture of taking good care of things and using them for a long time, and second hand stores are well stocked. This place is really like a warehouse with an amazing number of tableware on display. I am so indecisive that I am lost and can't choose . I spent a lot of money on Marimekko yesterday, so I'm trying to hold back a little here lol I said I was going to buy a lot of stuff, but I ended up buying a lot of stuff, and now we are both making excuses . We head to the sauna he wants. Actually, this sauna is a water bath where you can jump into the Baltic Sea as a water bath. There were lots of jellyfish, but he ended up jumping in, even though he said he was scared . There are 3 types of saunas in total. Eating and drinking are allowed in the saunas. The streets of Helsinki are really pretty. I found a limited edition Finnish cup at Starbucks. Finland is our first trip abroad, so we decided to use this as an opportunity to collect Starbucks cups from different countries. I was going to buy a recipe book, but on second thought I couldn't because I can't read Finnish. Heading to the restaurant for dinner. We'll have dinner a little early. This lemonade was delicious! The dog came to spoil him. Salmon is really good so we order only salmon dishes. I think many of the dishes in Finland suit the Japanese palate. What is strange is that there are almost no pasta dishes, and if you order pasta, you will get gnocchi. The waitress serves us Fazer chocolates! Beautiful cityscape at night. He stops suddenly for some reason. From what I can tell he's quite a natural . We came to the sauna attached to the hotel. Deep water bath for one person. A little chilly today. It is the last day in Helsinki, so we eat breakfast and head to the airport. He finally pointed out that I eat only cinnamon rolls . We're taking it too easy and will be arriving at the airport just in time . We made it safely in time. You can't watch it in Japan, but if you open Netflix overseas, you can watch Ghibli, so I'm enjoying every single one of them here. We have arrived in Rovaniemi. The sign for the hotel where we will stay today was prominently displayed. We asked for a cab and it was our first Tesla! Welcome drink of cranberry juice and check in. The lodge where we will stay today. It has large windows for viewing the Northern Lights. The interior is very pretty: Our conversation is usually a one-sided style of saying what we want to say The room has a sauna. The window glass in the bath was special and could be switched to frosted glass at the touch of a button. He is getting excited about the sauna . The outside air bathing space is nice . There was also a fireplace. According to the hotel staff, this space is "where husbands who are angry with their wives run away" . I'm worried about seeing the aurora borealis because of all the clouds. Riding a fat bike to Santa Claus Village for lunch. Biking in nature is such a nice feeling . I'm starving, so I'm having dinner anyway. I ordered a chicken hamburger. It's delicious with lots of cheese . We return to the hotel, deciding to take our time tomorrow to explore the Santa Claus Village. He begins to heat up the sauna. We watch the rest of the Spirited Away. We come for dinner. They had flowers at the table! We are served champagne, which is a rarity. Both of us are jet-lagged and sleepy at this time of the day. I had my first taste of Buffalo mozzarella cheese and it was milky and very tasty. Warming bouillabaisse and hearty beef steak. We talked a lot about the future tonight. We end with his favorite tiramisu. After a delicious meal, we get ready to view the Northern Lights. Around 2:00 a.m., the aurora finally appears! When seen with the naked eye, the aurora appears fluffy like a cloud at first. The image quality is not very good because it is from indoors, but it really looked like a curtain of light! The morning view is really beautiful too. Going to have breakfast. He spotted a wild squirrel! He is very light and slithers up the tree. Breakfast is buffet style. Salmon is never a miss no matter where you eat. The black bread here is delicious and unforgettable. Time passes more slowly than when I am in Helsinki. We talked a lot about our future and careers, something we are usually too busy to do. We sometimes talk about our "ambitions" for the future. What we simply want to do, whether we can achieve it or not. Sometimes it's surprisingly important to put it into words and talk about it with someone. Okay, now it's time for the sauna. You can see the view from the sauna. Sweating from the whole body to relieve stress! Refresh yourself in the outdoor air bath space. Very luxurious time. According to him, sauna professionals measure the pulse . The breeze outside is nice when the windows are opened all the way up. Start of the second set. We went in for a solid 3 sets and enjoyed the sauna. Today we are going to see Santa Claus. We were hungry, so we had a light Chinese meal. Stores are all Christmas. He likes the snow globe. He said he would never give in to a capitalist Christmas, but he's been taken in by the atmosphere . There were a lot of Moomin goods that I didn't see in Helsinki. Marimekko was also there! The product lineup is as good as the stores in Helsinki. I bought a lot of tableware in Helsinki, but it looks like I found another cute one. I want it all already And finally we meet ! No video because Santa is not allowed to film, but I was more impressed than I thought I would be! Everyone is welcome to join us! He made me a cup of coffee and I'm going to relax in my room with the view. Hoping to see the Northern Lights again today. We ordered a la carte for dinner. We eat a lot of junky food these days. It didn't show up very often and I was about to give up, but it finally appeared near dawn. Really beautiful with colors other than green. It looks even more beautiful when photographed. I am happy to see the aurora borealis two days in a row, which I have wanted to see at least once in my life. The last day is an early morning flight, so I take out breakfast and hurry to catch a cab. Once back at Vantaa Airport in Helsinki, we drive from there to the Lake District. We ate baked noodles and laksa at the airport. After buying coffee, the long drive begins. We booked the car in advance from Japan. The road is so beautiful and exhilarating~! We have arrived at our destination, KURU RESORT. Rooms with the lake in front of them. I loved it so much I want to live here forever! He had flowers ready for me . The lake from the bath too And the customary sauna. I kept lunch low as I plan to eat at a famous restaurant for dinner. It seems that KURU RESORT offers various activities. We found a very mysterious place It's really beautiful and I can't stop admiring it. The restaurant was selected as one of the TOP 30 restaurants in Finland. It is surprising to find such a good restaurant in the Lake District. All the food is really good! The fish dish had crushed fish paste on top for a change of texture. Three different desserts were served: It was a delicious and happy evening Today's breakfast was served in the room. In the morning they leave it at the door. We decided to have it on the bed while looking at the lake. It really is a happy time . I finished watching Spirited Away and next I'm watching Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind. Instant sandwich Now we are going to try kayaking on the lake. Don't get your phone wet,, I've always wanted to try kayaking on a lake, so I'm looking forward to it. This time I will try it with 2 people. Too much fun...! It was the first time for both of us to kayak, but once you get the hang of it, it's not so hard. It's not often you get the experience of kayaking on a lake this big. Everything was beautiful and just soothing. We were paddling the kayaks like crazy and it was evening. We haven't had lunch, so we're both starving. We chose a restaurant for breakfast on the second day. He liked these waffles so much he bought a waffle maker as soon as he got back home We are going on a cruise that came with our staycation plan. It looks like we are heading to an island a little further away. I don't think this is the same lake where we kayaked yesterday. A little walk around the island. It seems that we can actually see the seals of Lake Saimaa, but unfortunately we were not able to see them this time. Last Supper. I am getting a little sentimental as I am getting closer to leaving. Finland is ranked number one in happiness, and the people were all very kind. This trip made me like Finland more and more. Buying lots of Scandinavian goods, seeing the Northern Lights, eating good food, and kayaking on the lake. This trip was everything I wanted to do when I went to Finland. He made the trip enjoyable and safe. Now we want to experience Finland in winter! Enjoying Finland until the last meal on the plane, we return safely to Japan. By the way, I didn't fight with him until the end! LOL! See you soon, thanks Finland !