You mentioned the word BMW now to most people. racer power sliding around a corner, or sometimes most people think of a car. They don't think powering one of the deadliest fighters of Our story today starts with not the Focke-Wulf 109. This is an E model that would have been three high scoring aces of all time all flew the of all time flew the Focke-Wulf 190. With a huge the wartime the Messerschmitt 109, mass-produced, subscribed. The German ministry wanted another the 109. The gentleman designing it, a fantastic hero in National Socialist Germany. Fantastic Kurt Tank worked for Messerschmitt genius was revealed and he went on to Kurt Tank's design of the Focke-Wulf 190 109. A 109 is sleek, aerodynamic. A Very strong in design. Tapered wing could take a lot of punishment. And Well the 190 was a beautiful aircraft to handle. for a piston engine aircraft and it had nice In a traditional engine like the V12 Rolls-Royce but inverted, the Pistons go up and down. Up different obviously because the cylinders and the cob if you will. With a crank in the middle. a larger frontal area, not as aerodynamic. But punishment. As brilliant as a designer as Kurt going to have problems. And the Focke-Wulf wasn't engine was a problem. Basically some of the pilots warm. But it wasn't very good for the engine. the fins of the cylinders and the cylinder first a 10 bladed fan and then later on with 12. radial. Kurt Tank did a lot of testing himself, killed himself in an inverted spin. But of course The Focke-Wulf's problems were early 42 appearing in squadron service. and the pilots loved them. A Focke-Wulf quite difficult to land because of the torque and things like electrical undercarriage, a roll a huge amount of power, the Focke-Wulf was When the Focke-Wulf became successful, a lot Messerschmitt 109s. But pilots like Otto Kittle Another famous exponent of the Focke-Wulf 190, having the famous distinction of shooting The National Socialists of course were very Priller actually posed with his BMW sports Just for a nice little promotion picture The Focke-Wulf 190 first entered service in late the Royal Air Force. When the famous ace Johnnie encountering the Focke-Wulf 190 he was amazed at one had seen before. And he got back and presented deadly these areoplanes were that had just I had seen one in late 1941 and I had reported tips and a radal engine and I even drew Ministry came back and told us that it was refurbished. So the the the Focke-Wulf 190 took In 1941 the contemporary Spitfire was a Mk a Focke-Wulf 190. A Focke-Wulf could out but it couldn't outturn it. A MK V Spitfire very very high altitude eventually out dive it. in most respects. So to try and help the Mk V cliped the ends off the wings. Looks like it's clip. But it hasn't it's just left the elliptical is not there, it can't turn as tight as it it could roll out the way quicker. Also to help in the supercharger to make it spin up quicker. It wasn't until the introduction of the Spitfire Merlin engine, nearly 1,700 horsepower, to When the British government realised that the behind and something to be highly regarded for a commando unit idea to go and steal one with need to. A pilot called Armin Faber got lost in actually just had a dogfight with a Spitfire many hours in a Focke-Wulf and he wasn't the at an airfield that happened to be in southern groundman into a pen. A quick thinking jumped onto his wing pointed it at the pilot's He was taken captive and Faber actually Now we had a Focke-Wulf in captivity it had hours of painstaking testing. The impact be seen in later years on the development of The war on the Western Front, the air war was different ball game. We have 22 miles of sea. On a very famous Luftwaffe Squadron moved 30 to as the war went good or bad for the Germans environment within 15 minutes flying time. All German pilots and mainly all on the Eastern Front. went towards the Eastern Front against Stalin that might be the case, the little Polikarpov the British Gladiator long before the war. But Yakovlev, Mikoyan-Gurevich, and Ilyushin designer's head. They were working 24/7 to In a modern day Formula 1 car drivers of modern day lateral G-forces that a Formula a Focke-Wulf was at the pinnacle of piston had to be fitter than modern Formula 1 plus 8G in a Focke-Wulf 190 without the G suit and Nowotney were at the top of their game The 109 obviously a tried and tested areoplane. and then right at the end of the war the K model. areoplane and their weapon of choice. But again it he didn't like the leading-edge slats that were when you were coming into land. The undercarriage will. Very difficult to land, a lot damage made in a different Factory, very rugged indeed. The pilots loved the areoplane. Notions of which between the 109 G, F or K or the Focke-Wulf themselves. Test pilots, some of them would put when it's an extension of your right arm you make With the Allies gaining air superiority in the end factories, in fact all of Germany was pretty of heavy bombers from all angles, with the threat would hurl themselves headon at the stream of a closing speed of nearly 600mph, which is over cockpit of the B-17 and that aeroplane is going 1944, 45 the culmination of the Focke-Wulf design after his name. The D model Focke-Wulf 190 is best areoplanes that he ever flew. And bearing basically in history, that gentleman ought to with the Tempest at 440 mph. Ahe TA152, the very Of course towards the end of the war the wing jet, it was years ahead of anything that the by slave laborers who may accidentally, leave a rivet out or two and quite a few of even though a step back in a piston engined made to the tune of 20,000 Focke-Wulfs serving Towards the latter part of the war 1943, 44 rare. Towards 44 and 45 on the Eastern Front if very good or very dead. Pilots were getting Not much better than Hitler Youth were being A few hour and then getting up in one of the was behind the controls, the Allied pilots