- [David] Yo, Ronny, where you at? Let's go to Chinatown - [Ronny] Chinatown? I don't wanna run into - [David] Man, the neighborhood We just gotta get you to - [Ronny] Fine, but no I just wanna eat in peace. (upbeat hiphop music) Say it like this Ya ain't got a chance in the stands Like you better dance in this I mean that Wanna see yo hands in this Got about a grand on my wrist Feels great to be back - Yeah, I haven't been here in a minute. I don't need justification, Yo, what's goin' on everybody, David Fung here in NYC, Chinatown, Anthony Bourdain ate here, now I'm eating here with Ronny Chieng. Ronny, say what up to the people. - Hey. - You know, if you tried a little harder, Asian Reddit would like you more. - What, they don't like me? - Asian Reddit, Asian Twitter, they fucking hate you. - What the fuck did I do? - Where do I start? I mean, it's mostly for the Asian community. - That's bullshit, okay, of a Asian person getting beaten - Okay, Mr. Hollywood, I but that means I'm pretty locked in with the Asian internet, - Whatever, they don't like anyone. - They love me. - Why? - Because I'm woke to the plight of the average Asian-American. And plus, I enthusiastically of Asian restaurants. - So what, if I just showcase they'll like me more? - Couldn't hurt. (soft hiphop music) - [Ronny] Love this place, the - Yeah, this place is dope, man. Back in the day, it was Too bad it's closing in a few days. - It's closing? - Yeah, it's been on life support since the pandemic started. - Oh, that's so sad. - Yo, you should do a stand-up - Yeah, why not? The vibe here is electric. - No, I'm serious, man. Get some Asian American performers, save the community, you'll - Oh, shit. Yeah, you're right, you know what? Fuck it, let's save this restaurant. Where's the owner? - Who the fuck are you? - You don't know this guy? - No, but I love your YouTube videos. - Who the hell pays money for jokes? - 100 grand. - $100,000? - Okay, fine, $50,000. - 10. - Okay, deal. But you better pay on time. - Okay, you're welcome. - So what is it that you I still don't get it. - Oh, lit! Like a Chinese wedding! - [Ronny] Yeah, yeah, - No problem, I got you, - Were gonna bring a lot of people. (soft hip hop music) - Well, I just messaged a bunch of super desperate New York comic friends to come open for us, so we - Yeah, that sounds like a good idea, if you want the restaurant to die. - Really? Why? - Dude, if you really wanna raise money, you gotta get somebody famous-famous. - Well, yeah, you have me. - Okay, Mr. Five Lines I don't think you understand If nobody shows up, it's gonna be &quot;C-Lister &quot;I Always Hated His Accent Anyway.&quot; - Well, I'm pretty sure - Plus the best way to build your clout is to piggyback off somebody with more clout. - Well, where the fuck are we gonna find someone more famous than me by tonight? - I got an idea. (soft uplifting beats) You can't sleep on Flushing. Twice as many Chinese people live here as Manhattan Chinatown. - Wow, let me guess, Asian Wikipedia loves you too. This is your big idea? To come all the way to - This is not some This is the boba spot. Every Asian that's any - What's the plan, we're till someone walks in the door? Also, what is that? You have your own flavor? - Thanks, Joe. Hey, man, that's what they give you when you support the community. Yo, what's going on everybody, I'm with Ronny Chieng here at M Tea in Flushing, Queens right now. We're about to try the Fung Bro-ba's Boba. This is the coconut, butterfly with double brown sugar, Ronny, what you about to get? - Oh, uh, actually, I'm trying so I might just pass on - Do you want the pro-boba crowd or not? - I'll get their support when I save the stupid fucking restaurant, okay? Can we just stop doing tacky selfie videos and make something cool that Asians will want to rally behind? Like, look, I'll call my graphic designer. - Save your money, done. - This is terrible. I don't remember taking this photo. Also, who decided that everything on YouTube has to look like this? - The algorithm. - They didn't promote &quot;The - Look, man, maybe YouTube Maybe being a YouTuber is corny. But guess what, Hollywood like me an opportunity. - So we have to make our way on YouTube. America doesn't respect civilized men. They like masculine men sleeping around, beatin' up losers, fuckin' shit up, alpha Chad bro shit. - Is that, that's Genghis Khan. You're describing Genghis Khan. So if every Asian person that would solve all your problems? - Yeah. - Okay, well, let me see if - I'm telling you a bad-ass Asian guy who doesn't give a fuck would Have you seen that study where 42% of Americans couldn't And the ones they could were Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan, and Jeremy Lin. What do those three guys have in common? - I don't know, they have rock-hard abs? - They all physically defeated Americans. They only care about you who could beat the crap out of 'em. - Yeah, I don't know if that's-- - Hold on, is that Jeremy Lin? - Oh shit, it is Jeremy Lin. That's crazy, you were - Dude, if you can get him on the show, that would be some serious street cred. - Yeah, okay, I have street cred, and also, I know the guy, Let's just ask him for Hey Jeremy, what's up, man? - Oh crap, hey, Ronny. - What do you mean, &quot;Hey, Ronny,&quot;? Yo, you leave me hanging here? Remember, I came to - I got you those tickets because you wouldn't stop - Hey, man. - Hey, Jeremy. - Yeah, we met like five times, made a bunch of YouTube - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - I'm Christian too. - Cool. we're doing this fundraiser and, I'm not sure if you're free. - No, I'm not interested. - We haven't told you what it is yet. - Let me guess, you want for your stupid event. I'm not supporting your trash. - I mean, that is what we would want. - Oh, yo, okay, look, It's for a struggling that has deep ties to the community. - Oh really, what's the - The name is, David, what's the name? - The answer's no, man. - Hey, J Lin, we're or your stupid shoes to auction off, okay? Stop being such a dick. - I'm not the dick here. You're the one interrupting my practice. - What do you mean your practice? What are you practicing? This is a game for small children, okay? It's not even a real job. - Okay, let me get a real job then. Let me be hella short and - I'll have you know it takes brains to make money from words, okay? Any dumbass can put a ball in a circle. - I went to Harvard, Ronny. - Yeah, okay, fine, I'm just saying, comedy's a lot harder than - Oh, yeah? - All right, check up, then. - Sure. What does that mean? - Bro, that means one on - Okay, yeah, well, no, well, and if we win, you have to - Okay, and if I win, you delete my number and never message me again. - Deal. - Yo, if we lose, me and you could still follow each other on IG, right? - Goodness, check up. - Yo, Dave. - Dude, we're about to play - I know, I cannot believe I mean, even if we lose, this is still gonna be a great story. - We might have a chance, this ain't the Knicks J Lin anymore. - Yeah, okay, force him left - All right. - Yo, what's it like being on &quot;The Daily Show&quot; after it was good? - I don't know, I guess it's Ow, ow, ow, that's a foul, man, foul! - I don't know, man, it - That's one. (light electronic music) - David, switch, switch. - They call you Avid, no D. - Ah, he knows my name. (Ronny softly grunts) - Hell no. - Ow. - You really cannot play this game. Go get it. Get this baby out the court! Linsanity! Don't ever ask me for anything ever again. And delete my number. - I think I touched his dick. - Look, Jeremy, I'm sorry that everybody asks so much from you and that we even try to through your success. But listen, you're all we have. You're the chosen one, you're Neo. And maybe it's unrealistic as this masculine Asian warrior Jesus, but can you just help us out? - Yeah, I gotchu. If you need jerseys, I gotchu, I'll sign it for you. - Yo, I got his bag, let's go! - Ronny, Ronny, I'm gonna kill you, Ronny! - Hey, don't mute me on IG Story. - Okay, we're clear. - I really think that I mean, how else do you explain - Yeah, it was a real Christmas miracle. Let's see what's in his bag. Let's see, a Bible, of course, a season three bootleg DVD of &quot;Friends.&quot; (Ronny softly groans) Pasta in a ZipLock bag. And a half-eaten banh mi. How much do you think all this is worth? - I'll give you 10 bucks for the DVD. - Dammit, this charity show I should never have let - What the fuck, man? It's not my fault that J Lin At this rate, Asian - Goddammit, why is it so hard to find Asian people more famous - You're out of miracles - What'd you say? - You can't ask Jesus - Your right, I have an idea. (light upbeat music) (gong softly chimes) (soft tranquil music) - We maxed out the Jesus credit card, so we switched to Buddha? - Yeah, it's unlimited credit Also this isn't Buddha, this is Guanyin. How do you not know that? - I grew up a West I don't know any of this stuff. - Oh, oh, look what we have here, Mr. David Fung, Asian expert, - I grew up super Christian, but I kinda drifted over the years once I realized there weren't How do we do this? - All religions are like the same, okay? Just be submissive and guilty. Guanyin, please give me a miracle - Yo, can you ask Mrs. Yin if I can get a million on IG? - Dude, stop praying through me. - Uh, excuse me, would you This is a place of worship. Also, that's not Guanyin. - Oh my god, Simu? What are you doing here? - Oh, you know, just and prosperity of all Asian people around the world - Oh, yeah, same. This is David. - Fung, right? - Yeah. - Thank you for all that It's great to see somebody on stage and shitting on Hey, you guys want some bolo baos? They're the famous ones from - Oh, hell yeah, I'll take one. - No, I'm okay, thanks. - Yeah, mm, these are delicious. - Speaking of helping Asian people, I'm actually doing a live comedy to save this iconic Chinatown restaurant. - Oh, that's amazing, you're actually doing something Do you guys have any Maybe I could jump in and help you guys? - That'd be incredible. - I mean, yeah, yeah, that'd be great. - Man, I've been working on this really tight standup routine, or hey, maybe we could do improv. - Or you could take your - Oh, oh, no, no, no, I Things were starting to taking control of my life. So many back flips - I'm sure we could think of something. - Yeah, yeah, maybe I could sing a song or I could tell a story from set. You guys know I was a &quot;Shang-Chi and The - Yeah, I was in that movie with you. - You were? - Yeah, we had scenes together. - Really? - Yo, do you mind doing a video - Yeah, sure, anything for the community. - Yo, what up everybody, and look what Guanyin brought us, Shang-Chi himself, Simu Liu. What up, Simu? - Hey, how's it going everybody? We're in NYC Chinatown, prayin' it up, and I'm here with my boys, - Ronny. - Ronald, Ronny, Ronny, - Hey, hey, everybody! I'm out with my buds in Chinatown and shout out to my Chinatown stans. We're doing a live show to raise funds to save the - Whew, get excited! - Marvel superhero's in da house! - Yeah, and he's gonna do a back flip-- - What? He's gonna do a back flip. no, no, no. come on, come on! - Back flip, back flip! is slippery, guys. - Okay, okay. - For the community! Back flip, back flip! (bones loudly crunch) - Bro, we just killed Shang-Chi. - I didn't ask him to take off his shirt. Wait, I have an idea. (light hip hop music) - Dude, I can't believe we for Asian men in American media. - I mean, is there a clearer metaphor than flipping over backwards - Dude, you know the flipping - Really? It was your tasteless dumb pandering, video shout-out crap that started it. - I'm tasteless? You're the one trying to increase your public profile. - It was your idea! If it make you feel We couldn't find a or talented than me. All I have is you. - Okay, well, fuck you then. - Fine, fuck you too. - Fine! - Hey, guys. - What? - Oh, hey, Atsuko, thanks for being on the - Yeah, happy to be an on this complete - Uh, yeah, also, sorry if I just couldn't build the hype. - What? It's a packed house, what Yeah, your viral Jeremy Lin - Linsanity! Never ask me for anything ever again. (air horn blowing) - Looks like my promo worked. - Yeah, great, thanks. You were filming the whole time? No wonder we lost. - Always be filming, it's the YouTube way. - Hey, everyone's just excited to be here. No one ever does stuff like this. Let's go save the restaurant, come on. - Hey, listen. I'm sorry for snapping at you, man. I didn't mean it, you in certain circles, like boba shops. - It's all good, man. Why do you think I hang I'm trying to get my clout up too. Maybe the real clout was - That is the dumbest shit even for a YouTuber. (crowd loudly cheering) Thank you, thank you! Thanks for coming to save the restaurant. I couldn't do it without you. I thought I wasn't famous enough (crowd loudly cheering) - If you guys don't think Asian just consider this. There has been only one but there have been three &quot;Air Buds&quot;. I'm just kidding, there There have been 14 &quot;Air Buds.&quot; Rice, rice, all types of rice Black, white, purple, We got iPhone rice and wedding rice Salt shaker rice, University of Rice Rice rap (guns loudly fire) (crowd loudly cheering) - Is it weird that like is the only language just speaking it sounds racist? Like when I'm walking down the &quot;Hey ni hao, ni hao, ni hao,&quot; I'm like, what the fuck did you just say? And they're like, &quot;Oh, um, hello?&quot; I was like, &quot;Oh, okay. &quot;Carry on.&quot; - Recently, I did touch tongues with a stranger's dog, I did, thank you. The owner of the dog, she hated it. She did not like it at all. For some reason I just &quot;I'm married.&quot; (crowd loudly laughing) - My favorite restaurant opened again. I went in, my food was and I was like, &quot;Thank you, sir. &quot;Do you have paper plates perchance?&quot; What, I became a guy from I'm laughing so hard but stop the gigs Don't let a ticket go to waste Have a super fun party, girl, E girl Anybody, anybody who's watched Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-da, ba-da Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-da, ba-da (crowd loudly cheering) - I'm so Chinese that if my kid told me that he wanted to do standup comedy, I would be like, &quot;Are you &quot;You think you're just &quot;and people are gonna pay &quot;Also, do you think &quot;that you would be funnier than me? (crowd loudly laughing) &quot;Like anyone who's gonna go see you &quot;is definitely gonna see me &quot;before they pick you.&quot; You guys are excited to see what Jeremy Lin has generously donated? Wow! - First item is Jeremy - [David] $100 in the back? - [Ronny] $100 in the back, - [David] 200, $200. (David and Ronny mimicking - [David And Ronny] 300, 300. (David and Ronny mimicking - Sold, sold to the Asian in the back. (soft hip hop beats) You know, that was actually super fun. - Yeah, it went well, clout secured. - What a weird wedding. But we raised 10,000, thanks. - It's for the community. - So we just have to - What bar bill? - The community racked I didn't say it was an open bar. - You better pay up next week. - Wait, I got an idea. - No, no, no more ideas. - The West Coast Asian and they want us to come to LA to do one. We can take the money and - Okay, but this is the for the fucking community. - I feel you. Yo, what's goin' on, LA, me to do a charity show in that we may have occurred Pull up, it's for the community! (intense ominous music) - Ronny. (light hip hop music)