Welcome to Switzerland. Here are the 10 tourist Hi, my name is Greg. I am a Swiss local. So the first mistake is actually and it's really dear to my heart because a lot of people are scared to mess up their trip. Okay. And this is a shame because you spend a lot of money to come it perfect, but by making it super perfect and detail, you completely forget to enjoy, this is Switzerland. A lot of people come for nature. They are a certain little bit relaxed. And I'm going right channel. This is Switzerland Insider and I'm I travel. So the next tourist mistake is actually of preparation of your Switzerland trip and all of or any train pass in Switzerland. Okay? And here eh? Either in timing or be in money. Either money. In Switzerland, you're not obliged to buy any train pass. Okay, you can purchase normal it makes a lot of sense. And when I tell it does actually exactly what it says. It cuts certain amount, and then you can purchase tickets for half price as well. These are kind of things I'm going to help you obviously pick the best do is they want to stay in the hotspots, which is you should definitely do that. But there are bit more outside, but do not know where. Okay to not know where. Okay, you have, for example, love this city. Okay? I love the vibe of the city a lot of Swiss locals disagree with me. For And I like spending time there. But when you think the houses are concrete. Uh, they're newly newer stay in Interlaken but not staying Interlaken. in Interlaken, one is called Matten, one is There you can have cheaper hotels. I want to and have great access to Interlaken. You can stay is Oberried am Brienzersee, a beautiful Swiss We're talking here literally a couple of minutes You can stay in places like this one. This is an This is fantastic. The next mistake actually this is about you staying at hotspots and you only okay. And I think you should okay. There's a lot one of these touristy. It is Disney World in But then let's technically say you travel to New you have to buy this. I love New York T-shirt. for example. Okay. Or the or the One World Trade places. If you don't. And you come back and you a little bit that you didn't go there. And so the to Jungfraujoch and Titlis. And if you haven't even doing here? Why the hell did you even come hotspots, you pick them so you can say, I have Okay. But there are a lot of actually things that points that you should do. But in my eyes, as a more than it is actually really nice. Okay. But together. Uh, we will go to Ticino. Okay? We will magnificent villages. Even in when you're near one actually visits for you here to discover. Oh, right now actually is just that. Okay, I could pictures of Mt Pilatus, which actually make really It's called Dietschiberg. Okay, I will put the gods they say approve. Greg, this is a great then you stay here and you want to stay actually a comes up to the next point. Not spending enough each activity. Okay, a lot of trips. I see a lot and it's sort of their routine is pom pom pom when you come on a day like this, okay, you have It's a little bit scattered here. And that when it could be you're in a cloud and all of it closes down again and so on. It's actually which is what I really encourage when you come because basically this is what you come for, sheep rides, you come for train journeys to look and and maybe have some buffer time at the end to seasonality. Okay. In Switzerland we have got four okay. The sun is shining, everything is open these shoulder seasons okay, which are usually in April, May ish kind of thing. Another one where Okay. A lot of cable cars are closed. There are Maybe you check that as well. If you travel during okay. But the weather can not be so nice and one example is actually a good one is Pilatus and you are going to as well because now you Alpnachstad. On to the other side of Pilatus. And the top, and then a gondola or cable car down, and This is called the Golden Round Trip. Okay, it's summer. If you come in winter you can only do the going to start. There is no cogwheel train going but obviously when you come for the first time, a little bit. June is absolutely a really great September when the summer holidays have passed. you come during the summer holidays, but if you it's really nice to ride down to relax a little cases sometimes, but some people actually really of. Still I used to be guilty of a lot. Okay. And most of the time because it's just convenient and why I still do it today. Sometimes, uh, although of ways how you can eat in Switzerland on supermarket food or a little bit more without it they have a convenience section, okay. And that and so forth. But actually, for me personally, great because sometimes they're really actually actually you will have to. And this happens most local like sort of inside the regions, which are are not heavily visited, where the whole thing is is you pack too much and you pack the wrong things so whenever you prepare yourself for your trip to as you see now. We started the video. It was end of May now. The sun is sort of like pumped in Okay, so but technically it could also be like next couple of days ten degrees. So how do the then you think but I want to go to titles and there, there is snow. And that is true. There is oh, I need a winter jacket. But in fact you spend heated train. Okay. Maybe. Uh, yeah. You bring go, like, full, uh, Arctic expedition mode. And is a lot of. Sports stores where you can rent the way you pack when you come to Switzerland. their suitcase around here, and I don't know if I suitcase. Um, because you have to see Switzerland cobblestone streets in the train, sometimes accommodation every 1 or 2 days. Then I suggest a backpack, or you bring a backpack and a carry you to move. Another mistake. We're talking about the prices, but we're talking about how to pay. to still pay in cash. Okay. And a lot of actually actually only accept cash because mainly of the which is called TWINT, which is sort of like a harder to use when you're a foreigner, because for need a Swiss issued credit card in order to set When it comes to credit cards, I would suggest you it's doable in many cases, but not all the time. take out a roll of 50 CHF in one franc coins. or at the airport when you arrive. Okay, because Sometimes you need to pay for a toilet like can do it. Or what I would do, I would but always have some coins as well. Not only you cannot change the notes in the coins. So just coins. And the last coin is insurance. Okay. In great hospitals. Okay. We've got great ambulances. very nice helicopters. And this costs a lot. my suggestion for you is you take out a travel cannot go. So that is cared for. Um, because, non cancelable, uh, hotels. Maybe, uh, non cancelable. And maybe in this case, it makes instead of booking everything refundable. I hope in Switzerland. You know a little bit more channel. See you soon around in Switzerland.