Today, in the UK, half a million people Can you believe that? We need these breaks to really step back for a moment and to de-stress. In the US, 13% of injuries fatigue. A doctor might say to you, or you from, say, your operation. But what does quarter of people have fallen asleep at fallen asleep recently while driving. On the previous day. It's clear that we are about it? We need to value this because it our mental health. So the rest test may be two-thirds of people said they wanted more are watching one hour a day of TV have people who aren't. Not watching, watching Welcome back. Quick brains. I am your host think about rest, we immediately think covered many times in this podcast. But today, Claudia Hammond, is here to share a message. It's time to take rest, Mary, broadcaster, multiple author, psychology mind on BBC Radio 4, which covers health, and also hosts the weekly global Service. In her book that we're going to And I'm holding this for those of you You can join us there with 1.6 million obsession with being constantly of honor nowadays. And drawing on the conducted, she will reveal a startling all wrong. Welcome to the show, Claudia. really looking forward to this. And for encourage everyone to get the The Art of favorite reads this year. So much so we're our book club for the month of November, I copy and to join book club it's again Claudia, everyone is is asking is in their rest and sleep? And why is it important to the benefits of receiving from each and definitely the case that they both matter being asleep. If you can get to sleep and we know that that has matters of benefits know how very difficult it is if you are and all those sorts of things. And we know sleep has begun to be taken much more happen for rest. So rest is what we do that's that's restful and it feels you, but it's something that you do when break. It could be going and getting a cup some people find they can't really switch in their mind until they have exhausted what really helps their minds. And for very, very individual and people will find that feels restful for them. But you know bit better than before. You feel that you able to relax. I mean, it's very similar able to stop worrying for a while that be something like listening to music or takes you out of yourself for a little works as some kind of some kind of break. because it's no good just being on the go breaks in order to really restore moment and to get some peace in a way and rest is you're still awake, but it's to go through some of these activities in always tell people that sometimes we're much, but sometimes I feel like we're of the things that do restore us, the book is based around the rest test and a science. And we like to interpret the practical pragmatic things, little things listening or afterwards to make a shift. among I think it was 18,000 people living could explain and tell us a little bit how your findings. Yeah, it was fascinating people from all sorts of disciplines with and neuroscientists, historians, together for a short while at Welcome in London. And we were working there was interpreting it in different ways. You music all around rests that you get in And what I wanted to know was what do lots think about rest? And it's a bit confusing look in the literature, in the medical defined. So a doctor might say to you, oh, recover from say your operation. But what interpret that to mean, oh, I can just not friends and go shopping, do anything I have to stay in bed. Others might think, but I should alarm the sofa all day. So wanted to know what are lots of people psychologists from the University of And I, we got together and we devised an called the rest test. And we asked people them about how much rest they get, whether think they get more rest or less than the sorts of very well used, well defined being. And also people's personalities to that are going on here, who's getting more people from around the world took part, as people said they wanted more rest than number. And you could say, well, people they took part because they're also 30 to 40 minutes to fill in. And so if you take part in it in the first place. So And we found that on average, people got when we looked at well being, we found hours rest the previous day had the slightly down again when you got near, oh, if you just rest all the time, that's rhythms of rest and activity in our lives. was a bit lower, who was say getting 11 or unemployed and didn't want to be or maybe rest. And so their well being was not as five to six hours. And I know that that You're thinking, how on earth could I fit depends on what counts and feels restful cooking the supper. If you like cooking, people may find their train journey to is restful. Other people, if they're getting a seat, their commute might not be feel that they get more rest than average had well being levels twice as high as the So there does seem to be something going seems that it does really matter. And is seriously. But I think sometimes sometimes do as rest if we've got new time left. things that we've got to do first. And so very low priority. But perhaps we should restful activities are individual per one individual, but not necessarily, you curious. Was there any kind of touch on team expected to be true. That you found findings that that surprised you. Yeah, it were very interested in in the activities asked people to name the three activities we put those together. We have a top 10 were really surprised was that things that in their leisure time, like socializing or eating. Those things didn't appear not the in the top 20. So those things, those important connections are psychologically. weren't restful. And so the top five found most restful, were things that own. Leading us to think that maybe what rest from other people in a way. Like you, if they're with you, you're always given moment. What are they thinking about everything okay? What do they think about to say next? All those things are going on someone else. And so a chance to be on came at number three. Seems to give us a ready to go. And then you might think, oh outgoing, the extroverts, surely they even then, if we, because we used to look the extroverts were. If we took the people activities that people did on their own different from what's enjoyable. It's need a bit of that as well. And they're themselves. So if being alone was number Yeah, so number two was being in nature. of people had that as one of their top actually. Nice for people who write books reading. 58% of people said that they interesting because reading involves, of to read the words, think about what you've out what it all means. And you have to that came top. And I think all of these the essence of rest in a way. And I think again, it takes you away from your world, whether it's fiction or nonfiction. someone else or somewhere else, but it And also it's a really good jumping off know, there's research showing that people reading. And you must have had that where you were concentrating. You realize you've but you weren't actually concentrating at third time and then you maybe give up in. I'm just not concentrating. And people are doing this and you can tell movements. And so you can tell whether we're concentrating, your eyes slow down really unusual word. But if you're doing call mindless reading, then your eyes go some of the time people aren't beat ourselves up about that because it is daydreaming about something else. And for that because they take your mind sorts of things and that makes you and think about other things. And that some real benefits from daydreaming. If negative, if you're ruminating about there's plenty of evidence that that's not you're thinking about is something nice, know that there are benefits from that, So it's okay to daydream. And in fact, thought was interesting that actually letting their mind wander a bit was a have one of the largest communities of reading program, we have students in 195 had the opportunity over the years. I've and where they do these eye tracking definitely takes a cognitive load. It power. I always tell people reading is to And it could be in a way sometimes people minds because it could take us again It was interesting. What about television? know if this is controversial every and as don't know what the stats are in terms of in terms of television or Netflix or what have too much to read but too little time. read is directly correlated to your level time you took a class on how to read? I free master class. In this free training, your reading speed by 25 to 50% or more. comprehension, your focus and out on this life-changing opportunity. forward slash speed to access this free interesting. It was at number nine. And we you know, whatever they were doing, on your screen. And that did come at that they found restful. And it's into the slightly the rest from other are watching TV in parallel with someone activity to do with someone else because you want to. But you've got this shared looking at is essentially stories again, are or reality TV or dramas. What you're know, since the dawn of time people have exchange stories. And now we're lucky the best directors and actors in the world gripping and interesting to us. And again, while. And if you look at all the evidence a lot of it, then, then there do seem to So your wellbeing might go is lower, say hours a day. But people who are watching levels and average than people who aren't and sometimes people will say, oh, but afterwards. Well, that all depends what remember some scenes from some amazing things like Breaking Bad and The Wire and I'll remember those things for a very long just, you know, deciding carefully what time so that it is something valuable. And where they can feel restored afterwards. very popular activity. It is many people's everything they've eaten, they've got the to, is to sit and watch something. And I too guilty about that. One of the things said that they felt guilty every time they I've had people, I've spoken lots and lots and other events and public events about come up to me and said is that from shouldn't, you don't have to feel guilty that, you know, they find that a kind of to feel guilty. That it is okay because benefits for our mental health of resting. feel guilty when I go running because I and good for me mentally. And one of the feeling guilty anymore about doing break. I love gardening and I've got a I was working from home, I did use to 10 or 15 minutes and have a little potter guilty about it. And now I deliberately doing is I'm protecting my mental health protect my physical health by going doing to protect myself. And if you can can feel the kind of worrying thoughts moment I go out into the garden and start what's going on, I completely forget for a I was doing, say, work wise and much of this and this is all really activity that can make such a difference give yourself permission to rest. It's returns on something like binge watching but also it could certainly not be as spending more time. There's a minimum or do you have a recommendation? Let's say break from work and they only had 10 would count as a restful or energy I mean, the research on micro breaks, I sometimes people will say and it's an know, I've got a job or two jobs and kids know, there is no time to rest and I make a real difference and some of the And often what we do is we make our breaks particularly if we're up against a interesting German research that found know, you've got, I don't know, an hour finished and get it in. And so you think, to get absolutely head down. I'm going to of tea afterwards. And actually, because can increase if you've had even a really get that cup of tea now and come back with to concentrate better. So if you possibly your deadline can help. There was an where they got people to take micro breaks two minute micro breaks where people could lean their head back in their chair and and get up, drink and bring it back to found that they an hour later, their the end of the day, their well-being was can make a difference. And I'd say, you personal prescription for rest. So it's a what are the activities that I find find restful? And then try and work out your day. Even if it is only two minute does make such a difference. Our company, Facebook, Nike, SpaceX, Google, doing optimization, accelerated learning around knowing all that you know, all the looking at a workplace or a school, and implementing these like rest activities as world where in the workplace where you say to somebody, you know, like maybe this to their manager, the idea of rest activities to be able to convince just kind of not working. Yeah, so I've think that it's a question of showing are taking organizations, many of them are now. And they want their staff to be well productive, but they also don't want their and to leave, particularly at the moment course, you want to have happy staff and question of looking at their evidence to breaks are, you know, they do make a concentrate better. And that you will those breaks, but more importantly that And then I think it's a question of we'll, we'll start with leaders showing not, you know, if they're, if they're seen ever taking a break, then that's not a also I think it has to be realistic or you say to your staff, oh, you've all got to you're overloading them with so much work to do because they might be doing other been cut, then it's got to be realistic in will just, you know, annoy people more. say in the UK, senior schools used to have school, there was a break in the lunchtime. And now only 1% of schools have much to fit in that the breaks, the breaks those. You know, I say to people, put, put see, well, what space is left at the end value this because it does make a health. And so, so put those breaks in you know, schedule breaks between many you know, help will have back to back Zoom and hard to concentrate in is to try to that you can fit breaks in around those stuck in front of your screen. You know, I valuable just to sign a spotlight on this, because I imagine some of the listeners, to rest. Or they feel guilty if they did, because they're not doing something, you is in a way giving people, making people this is, this is valuable. Even we have with what we do and, you know, I did one for rest and it's a starting place for all you know, this positive peer group. The R learning part. I'm curious, having wrote approach to rest in any way and maybe what will gain from the book? What I have done to see that this is a good valuable health, this is protective and in a way that I can do all the all the work and all want to be able to do. The other takeaway honor, you know, it can become something we'll say to people how busy we are say, oh, I'm really busy, a bit too busy, status as well by saying, you look, look must be really important. And that for its own sake in that way, that it you know what, I've been, I've been having been trying to fit in some other things bounce in life between activities and say and should not be something to be taking it seriously because it really does Claudia, we're excited to have you in our your copy of the art of rest, how can with you? Yeah, so the book is, you know, big retailers and others and my website is at Claudia Hammond and Twitter as well, so Outstanding, well, I really appreciate it, Claudia's book, social media, her own forward slash notes. So Claudia, thank you look forward to having you in our coming in the book club, it's going to be great, go to quicksuccess.com to enroll in our isn't a luxury. It's not a sign of essential component of a healthy, challenge everyone listening to take what share maybe on social media and you can you're going to incorporate more love the feedback, how it impacts your happiness or well-being. I want to remind ourselves like we do, I don't know, our rest, you are not responsible for fixing to try to make everyone happy. Remember to replenish. And as always, you define more YouTube channel where we post the extended you do that also as well. And make sure a comment on what you thought about this have. We look forward to seeing you in again. Thank you. Yeah, this is your brain everyone, be limitless.