So why is it the case that when we are feeling socially awkward versions of ourselves, when our hearts are pounding and we feel like crawling out of our skin, are we also the most nice I'm a social psychologist, and I've been studying the science for over 20 years. So everything from new negotiations, upward feedback with your boss those moments where you need &quot;Yeah, for the last 20 minutes, I actually have no idea Can we maybe rewind a bit?&quot; And to study these things, I look at three main outcomes. First, I look at what people say, how friendly we are, how much we complement one another, how much we give gracious feedback. Second, I look at the things our nonverbal behaviors, avoiding eye contact, doodling even, even our tone of voice. And then I look at the things our under-the-skin responses, our physiology, things like blood pressure, heart rate, these types of things that we often don't even really And the way I do this is by having and interact with each other and I have them negotiate with each other, I have them get acquainted And often it's the case people are required to give some form Tell them honestly come in with an offer for a negotiation, tell them what they could have And I think we all kind of know to be in one of these studies. You might not know what it would really There's a lot of equipment involved, but we plug people up to measure these under-the-skin responses. We videotape them to capture Now, to get us all into this mindset but maybe potentially a little bit nice, I want you all to think about what was the last OK, so keep this thought in your mind. You can think about it for a few moments, because in a couple minutes, I'm actually going to randomly to have you come up and share your story So before we do that, I just want you all to kind of get a sense when people are engaging So we bring them into the lab, we hook them up to all this equipment and within moments, we start to see those stress Their heart rate goes up, It doesn't take much to get people Next, we see it They start to fidget, they avoid eye contact, they pull their chair a couple inches away from the person in an effort just to get One of my favorite findings uncomfortable doctors, they look down at the chart more, or they look more at the computer screen instead of making eye contact So let's all return Does everyone have an awkward moment How many of you have maybe your palms are sweating? You can start to feel yourself just with the mere thought Hey, a few of you. How many people would actually Not -- OK, same people. (Laughter) How many of you, if I did call on you, you would grin through and you would do it even though A few of you. Don't worry, I'm not going This was all just a ruse which is, in uncomfortable we often don't have Instead of telling people we do the nice thing Now one of my favorite findings is in the context of negotiations. I went to a major firm who were used to working with one another, and we had them engage in a negotiation. And at the end of it, there was a winner and there was a loser. So we said to the winner, you know, this is really And what we would like you to do to the person who just lost. What are some things What are some potential missteps? How many of you think they really followed our instructions? OK, nobody. [You] can see where this is going. What we found is that even who just lost a negotiation to us, We say things like, &quot;The way you made that really early offer that was amazing.&quot; Or &quot;It was so great how you didn't even or what I was willing change on or be flexible on.&quot; People layered on the compliments to someone who they just telling them how great they are. So often these kinds of interactions that take the form they involve a lot of compliments, telling people what they do well But a lot of my work actually looks at what's it like to be of these types of interactions. How do you feel when you interact who's giving off These are typically that we actually see from people, a little bit of side eye, you know, arms crossed, After a lifetime who engages in anxious niceness, what we find is that most people are racial minorities. They are disadvantaged group members, they are the type of people that we are worried about appearing and that anxiety is regulated by being over-the-top nice to these folks. We also find that these individuals and attentive to the how-we-say-it piece than the what-we-say part. So in one study, we had Black interact with each other and we brought them into the lab and we measured the physiology What this allowed us to do to which people stress. Those under-the-skin responses And what we expected to find is that the Black participants physiologically, to those whites. They'd be more attuned to those, And that's exactly what we found. The more anxious those white the more they fidgeted, even the higher their cortisol reactivity, indicating some real deep, the more those Black participants And I think this finding I think it means that we often think as independent of the people but our bodies are not always our own, our physiology is not always our own. And if you spend a lifetime interacting in an effort to control their anxiety, you could potentially catch that stress. It could negatively affect your bodies. Now often what we find that people are actually getting isn't always super direct. Sometimes it's a little bit patronizing. So you could probably see Having over-the-top positive nice feedback it can make it very difficult difficult to kind of know where you stand, what you should stop doing, but can also damage people in ways It can affect their reputations So imagine the case who loves giving and you have someone who works for you, and a recruiter calls, a recruiter calls you, or someone asks you the kinds of things you're going &quot;They're are real team player.&quot; &quot;They have great energy at work.&quot; Generic things. Yes, they're nice, about what that person is really like. And what we find is that the readers think to themselves, &quot;Wow, they must not really know I don't even know what this means.&quot; At worst, they think to themselves, &quot;Well, they probably have They're just afraid to share them.&quot; So these kinds of general tend to actually harm people's reputation So I think we have to then think about what is the solution Is it the case that we should all in an effort to be more direct? I don't think that's the case at all. I think there are some things we can do, and I'm going to highlight three of them, to improve the degree consistent feedback to people, particularly in the workplace. So first we need to ask how many people are on board There's a bit of a plural when we think about how nice What I've found who loves this kind of general, there's another person who feels like it's not helpful. And I actually learned from one of my students recently. She was giving a practice talk in my lab, and she spent weeks probably harder than anyone on preparing a talk like this. And then she went and gave it, &quot;How did the talk go? Did it go well?&quot; She said, &quot;It was terrible. It was the worst experience.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, what happened?&quot; And she said, &quot;All I got were 'That was interesting' and then some clap emojis Not a single person asked And I had this moment where I realized that positive feedback It can come across And so if we want to change this culture, we actually need to first do a quick pulse of how many people are actually constructive forms So you might be thinking to yourselves, &quot;Alright, I might be on board yet honest feedback. So what should I do? Should I go to people and say, or honest and useful?'&quot; No, do not do this. You will, by and large, &quot;You know, I actually That just feels a lot more What I learned in my work is that this process about giving anxious, nice feedback, is just as much as it is about the feedback giver. People get into a bit I give you nice feedback, but you smile and say thank you It takes a lot to break And to do that, we have to think to frame our feedback to other people. So instead of asking people, &quot;Should I be nice or honest and useful?&quot; What I like to do is ask people, &quot;Can I give you feedback Can we think about feedback Another dimension would be, can we think about things you should keep doing versus things that &quot;please stop.&quot; And I'll get in a moment to how we can actually frame So I think a lot of us at the positive general feedback, right? &quot;I love how timely you are.&quot; But what does that mean? It could mean that you're it could mean that you turn it could mean it in a very global way of, &quot;You sure managed to do Or it could mean something so specific, like, "It's so helpful that you send in but I don't really want to comment on all those other kinds And when we do the kind of general the &quot;please stop,&quot; So kind of, one of the more common forms is &quot;You don't take How many of you have ever been told, I think most of us at some point What does that mean? Does it mean I should speak up Does it mean I should be Does it mean I should do your job which is often what it actually means? We have to break it down and that could include things like, &quot;Don't wait for Tom to ask before you say, Now an important piece here Often if we get to the stage where we're comfortable "I have a specific, critical, negative "Please stop interrupting people," you know, not telling Tom showing up five minutes late with coffee so I know what you were doing we don't tend to replace them but we know from our personal lives &quot;please stop&quot; behaviors So I want to take you out And we're going to go to the bedroom. Yes, I said we're going to the bedroom. So imagine it's the case that you just OK, we're all there, we've done And you turn to the person and you say, &quot;Those last three things no good. They're all bad. Didn't like any of them.&quot; They're going to look at you in shock &quot;Well, what should I do instead,&quot; right? And until we're ready or kick them out of bed or fire them from our team, we have to focus what they should be doing instead. And I think as we think through it can be very scary to make What I found is that cultures of anxious, They're systemic, they are deeply embedded in a community, in the workplace, in a team, even in dyadic And so to break that cycle, you need to start neutral. And by neutral I mean things that are not scary You might be thinking to yourself, what's some neutral feedback at the end of my talk? How about &quot;I would switch the order or &quot;I would change the font.&quot; These types of feedback but they're not scary to deliver and they're not actually scary to receive. And what we find is that when people to work up to this type of feedback, they are much less So those behaviors I opened with engaging in what we call a brittle smile, avoiding eye contact, they actually go down and so do those stress responses when you know and you're anticipating that isn't going to sting. And I think as you work through this, I don't want to be a proponent I think it's actually really important to put niceness in the delivery and that can come across It can come across as by showing You know what the person's you're aligned with their goals. The first time I actually got this type was after a talk I gave and the person came up to me and she said, &quot;Can I give you some feedback?&quot; And immediately my heart started pounding. I'm like, oh great, here we go. No one likes hearing, And she opened with three things &quot;I really liked points one, two They really resonated with me. But you have this habit of looking up and to the right, and so you spent half the talk or the exit sign in this case, instead of making eye contact And it's distracting So I thought a little bit about it with my eyes probably and I thought, OK, I can It doesn't feel super scary. And so I did. I made that change, and I thought through this culture of niceness. So I want to wish you all luck on your journey of trying to change killing anxious niceness, and hopefully have some concrete steps Thank you. (Applause)