Walking out of the cinema after watching Alien: franchise - with adrenaline still coursing stop thinking that the answer, for me, was the screen inside. And I suspect I'm not the only one. 1979, the creatures terrorizing the inhabitants captured the attention of audiences across the with a vice-like, almost facehugger-level grip. Alien universe springing up onto our screens, I these types of creatures and the worlds they ever venture far enough out into the Universe to real threat much closer to home than we realise? much to unpack across the nine films in the chemistry, long-duration space travel, and aspects of these stories. So let's get into dissolves like metal under Xenomorph blood. Join me today, as we probe the Alien films to If you haven't seen the Alien films, recall what happened with their continually The first film, starring the brilliant Sigourney with the crew of the spaceship Nostromo responding moon of a gas giant. Upon entering the ship, one encounters, I mean it jumps and latched onto his lifecycle of the Xenomorph. The Xenomorph, proceeds to wreak fear and destruction across with the rest of the franchise fleshing out lifeforms in different places and times. But Following the entire multi-film timeline, some of film in the franchise, Prometheus, set in the character of Prometheus, Dr. Elizabeth Shaw, where she and her team are studying cave of Scotland. They are searching for clues of prehistoric humans. This is actually a fascinating kind of space Indiana Jones, studying rock able to uncover significant cosmic events like night skies. For example, the carvings at Gobekli comet strike around 11,000 BC, an event thought change known as the Younger Dryas, a mini ice-age In Prometheus, Shaw's team find depictions of a in a constellation, a constellation the characters image's message as this entity encouraging it. This constellation, and the star, are real. night, you can make out the faint constellation Reticuli nestled inside it. The constellation the cave scene. Although, it's not an exact match, a process known as proper motion. So when the the pattern would have looked slightly this southern constellation is definitely not Skye would have been tracing out from their So minus one point for accuracy there. two stars gravitationally bound to one another. both stars are Sun-like in their mass, size and times the distance that Earth orbits the Sun. And Zeta 2 Reticuli, is home to a ringed gas giant setting for the first encounters of humanity with Habitable moons around gas giant planets are a In our Avatar video, we talked about the perils a gas giant. However, LV-426 and LV-223 - are nowhere near as lush and enticing as the few signs of life, and atmospheres that are toxic may make them somewhat toxic to physics nerds too. of inconsistency across the films. Originally, just 1,200 km - about a third the size of our was said to have a surface gravity of 0.86 G that cannot be found on any other moons or a moon with such gravity and size would have an ten times higher than our planet at about 5.51 would have an average density more than twice four times denser than lead 11.34 g/cm3. In fact, which is 150 g/cm3. Additionally, at such a small anyone standing on it - even Flat-Acheroners this curvature is not visible in any An even bigger problem comes from real-world so far is that the star has no gas the Spitzer Infrared Space Telescope made its moons existing even less likely, as it star. This would imply that the system had with planets still forming out of the disk of from the ALMA radio telescope array found that high certainty to be a background signal. So there with a ready-made name for it and its moons. writers some slack. At the time of Alien's speculation, with the first confirmed detection the moons of gas giants - even in our own solar prospects in the hunt for extraterrestrial Upon discovering these prehistoric signposts funding from the Weyland-Yutani corporation - a technological resources - and they make the 39 in a ship called, drum roll, the Prometheus. The Two years... 39 light-years in two years... 39 times two. From our current understanding of physics, it travel faster than the speed of light. And from have any kind of wormhole-esque teleportation the power of some kind of propulsion system, like took one thousand of the current best ion engines, it would still take a 1000 metric tonne ship However, I believe we can work out what the this travelling time. They could have been making whereby distances shrink for fast moving to travel at say 99.9% the speed of light, if we to speed up and slow down, we find that, for the stars would contract to around two light-years. still don't have an explanation for how they could travel this close to the speed of light, the Zeta 2 Reiculi would be 37 years further into the journey bringing the same problems. In the case could render the journey completely pointless ever do. This is a classic sci-fi obstacle, one So the franchise doesn't seem to have a good but they have struck on an idea that space have thought about: biological stasis. hypersleep. Hypersleep could allow humans to slowing their metabolism. This is not an alien the idea of stasis as part of its plans for human playing out various forms of it for millennia. Habitat (TITH), where astronauts would be put into torpor state is similar to hibernation, nature's involves significant physiological changes, with the brain remaining minimally active significantly reduces their metabolic rate, and, in the case of humans in space travel, would ensuring that the astronauts arrive at the peak up. However, as of right now, hypersleep is to traverse the vast distances of space. NASA, on developing living systems and preventative maintaining good physical and mental health - must contend with microgravity causing muscles and the punishing mental struggle of isolation So although we are nowhere near able to travel especially not in the next 100 years. able to suspend our space travellers and their crews did. But if theirs and other Alien make those journeys for fear of what we could The Xenomorph is one of science fiction's truly and unrelentingly alien in every sense Xenomorph so frightening, is its similarities By borrowing elements from parasitic organisms, mechanisms found in nature, the Xenomorph's adaptor, and reproducer all rolled up into Let's start with the life cycle. According to the the Queen of its colony - the first of many insect the egg is in fact a trap waiting to be is lying in wait. The facehugger is a crab-like and it has one goal: find a host in which to next stage of the life cycle to initiate. the increased presence of gases like CO2 from a the facehugger will leap out in pursuit. This releasing spores to infect animals that The creators of Alien were heavily inspired see the insect inspiration in its exoskeleton it is intended to mirror parasitic wasps like These wasps lay their eggs inside the bodies of feed on the host from the inside out, first to prolong the host's life, ensuring that they are ready to emerge. Given that this already ridiculous to believe that this could exist in In the natural world, there are numerous disturbing behaviours. For instance, the parasitic taking over their central nervous system. The before it dies, allowing the fungus to sprout more hosts. The ant, much like the human host the parasite's reproduction. Another example infects crabs. Sacculina, essentially a living where they grow and eventually take over the is rendered sterile and begins caring for the all while its body is slowly consumed from Once the chestburster gets loose from its human lethal, predatory form. But perhaps too rapidly? emerge quite small, but within a matter of hours see them feed on anything in the meantime. Alien fandom. In the extended Universe beyond goes on a feeding frenzy in the ship's stockpiles, all that material into the classic Xenomorph. I'd like to explore some other options. another trait from insects with an ability of tiny tubes called tracheae, which extend world through small holes called spiracles. directly into the tracheal system, delivering for a circulatory system to transport oxygen. allows insects to efficiently manage respiration process of photosynthesis, where they absorb sunlight to convert it into glucose and oxygen. Perhaps the Xenomorph is able to absorb gases from kind of photosynthesis-like process to convert the problems with this theory, however. One, is that bigger the animal becomes. The volume to surface there is not enough surface area to dissolve is the reason why insects aren't so big nowadays, oxygen around 290 million years ago . We also see withstand the vacuum of space. If it did breathe point in the exoskeleton, where material inside a final problem comes from theories about what the creature is silicon-based, which is much less so if that were the case, it wouldn't have So, by whatever means, you now have yourself it's smart, it's ruthless. The odds are stacked against this thing. But even if you do manage what comes spurting out? Acid blood. And strongest acid in existence, that can corrode Acids are defined by their ability to break form stronger bonds. Acids are measured by acid. Hydrofluoric acid, with a pH around 2.1, is that chemists will handle commonly, but extremely metals, and penetrating tissue and bones due to Xenomorph's blood, however, would need to be even acid, the strongest acid known to science, with it can dissolve nearly any material. If Xenomorph explain the rapid corrosion seen in the films. way through the bulk of a metal spaceship, how our blood is essentially neutral at pH 7.35. And developing acidosis, putting you in real trouble. Teflon. Yes, the material on your non-stick vessels were lined with a material like which are so strong that the fluorine atoms in would prevent the acid from damaging the Xenomorph is resistant to its own blood because it is a all life on Earth. Silicon could work similarly to as it also forms very strong bonds that acids bonds probably couldn't resist the destructive there is very little evidence in the films that they can feed and grow inside a carbon-based It's not clear why the Xenomorph has acidic blood, same way that many reptiles on Earth will secrete it could also be for energy, harvesting the to power its attacks, in a similar way that writers just thought it would be cool. Either the harder-to-believe aspects of its physiology. grow with fairly scarce resources available to but also generate organs and tissue that However, although clearly powerful, Xenomorph franchise. In the prequel, Prometheus, who have a somewhat casual attitude to personal elegantly named, Chemical A0-3959X.91 - 15 ancient civilization called the Engineers, franchise boils down to. You can trace surprisingly, humanity, back to the goo. But it for anyone who comes into contact with it. and mutator, a substance capable of radically organism's physiology. For example, when they transform into hammerpedes--creatures with reminiscent of the Xenomorph's traits. This it encounters, morphing it in the Xeno direction. violent restructuring of DNA, effectively hacking process could be similar to CRISPR, a real-world against viruses, and now also by scientists in inserting new DNA sequences, the black goo seems weaponized traits. This is seen when one of the goo, which alters his sperm. When he later has impregnated with a creature that eventually leading to the creation of a Xenomorph-like direct involvement from an actual Xenomorph. definable species, the final form of the Xenomorph or the black goo mingling genetically with depending on the host. For example, in Alien resulting in the Runner--a creature with dog-like too: with Xeno- meaning 'strange' or 'alien', specific, it's almost conceptual. It suggests and more a manifestation of genetic combination that the Xenomorph, in a way, has been inside The influence of this chemical on the franchise is it is seen seeding life on planet Earth, as one his body and genetic material disintegrates and David, - a whole other scientific rabbit-hole another video - is seen destroying an and performing experiments to create there is no analogous chemical on Earth today. tools that can change the genetic make-up something we must surely take steps to keep we want to end up creating our own downfall. we find a tapestry woven from the threads of and our fascination with the unknown. The parasitic nature, and unstoppable predatory might lurk in the darkest corners of the universe. they are a reflection of our own world - drawn through the lens of speculative science. might be out there, let's not forget the lessons but the questions they raise are valid. How far we finally meet whatever is out there, will we the consequences be of discovering alien life that in the vast, uncaring expanse of space, Thank you for joining me on this journey franchise. Although no one can hear you scream so let us know what aspects of Alien you find Thanks for watching we are now very close to and I can't thank you enough for having more it's looking like I'll be able to astrum answers so submit your video suggestions become an astronaut you can join the Patreon you'll be able to watch the whole video ad questions to our team once again a huge team meanwhile click the link to this playlist