It's not too often that a giant of physics threatens to overturn an by generations of physicists. Well, that may be the fate of the famous Penrose recent paper by Roy Kerr. Long story short, the terrible singularity A few hundred years ago Isaac Newton Suddenly a lot of mysterious things made a from trees to the motion of the planets and But the discovery also birthed a new and stranger the gravity of a sufficiently dense object of no escape, able to hold prisoner light It raised the specter of black holes-whose day. Einstein's update to Newtonian gravity seemed black hole, and it also revealed something The first solution to the equations of general that at the very center of the black hole At this hypothetical point of infinite density conflict with quantum mechanics. At the size scale of the singularity our two themselves mutually incompatible. Many, perhaps most physicists were seriously singularities. And they got even more uncomfortable when, showed that singularities really are unavoidable His Penrose singularity theorem-for which as long as an event horizon exists, so must Perhaps the most important implication of relativity really is in fundamental conflict If that's the case, then the only salvation greater theory combining quantum mechanics will evaporate away-as if it was just the But just recently we've had a ray of hope In a paper released in December, Roy Kerr-one time-may have shown that we can avoid the after all. In order to get to this radical new result, let's refresh our knowledge of black holes Then maybe we can decide if Roy Kerr really So, to start with Roger Penrose didn't exactly explicitly anyway. He demonstrated that spacetime paths must Anything moving in spacetime under only gravity This is a path through spacetime that minimizes traveled. Before the Penrose Singularity Theorem, it An object might travel along a segment of on a parabola-but the geodesic itself can the ball's trajectory. Forward forever into the expanding universe, Roger Penrose showed that inside a black hole, end there. When a spacetime admits geodesics which don't go on forever we say the incomplete". You can imagine geodesics as the gridlines quite warped fabric on which the laws of physics Geodesic incompleteness regions where infinities appear and the laws of physics break down. So the argument of Penrose was that But Kerr has an objection to on a subtle interpretation So let's dig a little deeper. When Penrose said a geodesic captured by a black hole "ends" at the something very specific, mathematically. He meant that the "geodesic parameter" we use to describe the evolution of something Similar to how your latitude terminates if go further south once your southness is maxed For the geodesics describing the paths of usually is, taken to be the "proper time" along that trajectory. So if the parameter for a matter geodesics is because there's no way to trace a flow of There's no meaningful way to define "after These are dead-ends in spacetime. Now Penrose constructed his argument using turns out the difference is crucial, as we'll However the general argument that geodesic convincing enough argument that for nearly general relativity demands singularities. Stephen Hawking even used Penrose's arguments a singularity-all geodesics traced backwards But Roy Kerr had his doubts, to put it mildly. Kerr is a New Zealand physicist who, in 1963, descriptio n of a rotating black hole. This was the second black hole solution to years after Karl Schwarzschild describes the much simpler case of a non-rotating black hole. Now we have good reason to all real black holes have some rotation, so the Kerr solution is kind of a big deal. As is Roy Kerr. And Roy Kerr vehemently exist, nor even that the Penrose Singularity Theorem has anything to say about their existence. Let's finally get to the heart of his objection. So I told you that geodesic incompleteness terminate, which in turn has been taken to But there's a catch to this argument. Penrose constructed his type of geodesic-the null geodesic. These are the spacetime paths traveled by A null geodesic represents the shortest path OK, so what does it mean for a null geodesic It means its geodesic parameter has to be In the case of massive particles we used proper But things traveling at the speed of light Their clocks remain frozen and so proper time To describe the geodesic motion of light, We use something called an "affine parameter" the main thing is that it increases in a nice Penrose's theorem shows very convincingly black holes, and so null geodesics end. He then took this to infer the inevitability of spacetime. But Kerr points out that these affine parameters so don't imply that the grid of spacetime To illustrate this crudely: the affine parameter This function is bounded from below even though So, that limit of the affine parameter doesn't Roy Kerr. He also argues that this invalidates any arguments due to coordinate system dead ends. Kerr's paper is quite fun to read. He is snarky to put it mildly, excoriating following a conclusion that he states is "built I linked the paper in the description for Another important part of Kerr's argument holes and the idealized black holes analyzed Essentially all-and perhaps literally all-real Real astrophysical black holes will obey the same argument can be extended for charged Kerr black holes do not have a point-like In the Kerr metric, the point singularity looped strand of infinite curvature. But Kerr insists that even this isn't a The other cool thing about the Kerr metric not inevitable as it is in the Schwarzschild There's a region just below the Kerr event Across the event horizon all paths lead down, But not to the center. In a rotating black hole, the centrifugal gravity, resulting in this inner region of In the Kerr black hole there's an inner to move in any direction, even back up. So what's this ring singularity? Kerr implies that it's a mathematical fiction. It's just a convenient way to represent object. And he suggests that a true collapsed star inside the inner horizon. Kerr nails down his argument by demonstrating Singularity Theorem, NOT all null geodesics hole, even if their affine parameter is finite. He reveals these families of geodesics that hole and continue to exist forever and trace without having to hit the supposed singularity This is contrary to the previous belief that has to end up at the supposed singularity That's if the ring singularity in the Kerr than a mathematical convenience, as Roy Kerr So what does this all really mean for the Well, it is important to understand that Kerr's argument isn't necessarily don't exist, it's saying that the conclusions It's saying that bounded affine parameters for null geodesics don't imply a common interpretation of the Penrose Singularity Not too many physicists really believe that that we'd have to bring quantum mechanics That's why Kerr's paper is a surprise-it without having to wait for the elusive theory There's still work to be done to see if have no doubt that there'll be some excited But in the meantime we now have reason to be less scared of the a theoretical standpoint. Without singularities, perhaps we can start in their interiors. Perhaps, with Roy Kerr's new ideas physicists thanks to a singularity-free spacetime. Hey Everyone! We wanted to say thank you whether it's buying merch from the merch store But in particular we wanted to say thank Patreon supporters are a huge reason why we've special thank you we're adding in a permanent of all levels and we'll be opening our next levels. And of course if you join us on Patreon, to talk Space Time 24/7. There's a link in the