Renowned around the world for its beautiful turquoise waters; the Caribbean is a lovely Many come to soak up the sun, splash about Its attractive archipelagos and islands boast reserves dotted about both on land and offshore. While many of its tropical islands are low-lying, ranges, rainforests and waterfalls coating Here's a look at the most beautiful Caribbean Number 23. Bonaire Bonaire is known for its world-class diving from the shore. But this little Dutch island has a lot more Its tiny, coastal capital, Kralendijk, is it's easily walkable! Cound can also try out windsurfing at Lac that run through the island's mangrove forests. Number 22. Dominica. If you want to spend your holiday sunbathing you, but if exploring valleys with thick jungle-like peaks sounds more like your thing then this The island was nicknamed "the nature island" has natural hot springs, gushing waterfalls trails. Go snorkeling off the island's rocky shores and bubbles away deep within a volcanic crater. Number 21. St. Martin. So strongly desired by two countries because Sint Maarten, or Saint Martin, is shared by It is the smallest island in the world to In St. Maarten you can explore the Caribbean can enjoy dining on delicious French food. The island is very lively, and has a lot of are mostly in St. Maarten. It's the perfect Caribbean destination for Number 20. Puerto Rico. The stunning Caribbean island of Puerto Rico and Caribbean feel to it. The island's capital, San Juan, is a melting The city has an array of quaint and colorful is contrasted by the modern skyscrapers in Its beaches are well worth a mention, too National Forest, which is a tropical rainforest come across before and magnificent flora. Number 19. Martinique. Martinique is nothing if not culturally interesting. A French island in the Caribbean's Lesser West Indian cultures that you can experience. The island's scenery has plenty to inspire volcanic peaks, and historical architecture. Discover the capital, Fort-de-France; its and colonial past. Visiting Saint-Pierre is a must, too. This modern city was built among the ruins was destroyed when Mount Pelee erupted in Number 18. Aruba. Aruba is known for its gorgeous weather featuring rain. One of the most popular Dutch Caribbean islands, white sand beaches and dessert terrain. Visitors can tan or snorkel one day and then They can also try out different water sports solitude and quiet on less popular beaches Dutch colonial architecture can be found in the southern coast. Number 17. Bahamas. There's not much you can't do in The Bahamas. As it is made up of some 700 islands, the Whether you want to go on a luxury holiday, island hop, or go on a family trip - there's A popular destination is the lively Nassau and all-inclusive resorts and caters for families To experience the Bahamas like a local, don't your class full of rum punch in true Caribbean Number 16. Grenada. Grenada is popular for a number of things, Park to its idyllic beaches. The island is also the home of nutmeg, and in the air. Don't miss out on the once in a lifetime park with 65 different sculptures. Stay in Grenada's capital, St. George, and mountains and an adorable harbor. Number 15. Guadeloupe. The French island of Guadaloupe is spread islands nearby. It is a hotspot for foodies and laid-back very little and taking it easy. The island has spectacular restaurants that layered with spices and a Caribbean flare. Laze around on the island's sunny beaches, your fancy head into the hills and explore Excitingly, you can hike the Grande Soufriere Number 14. Cozumel. Surrounded by the glittering Caribbean Sea, holiday spots to sunbathe and scuba dive. It's easy to see why as its picture-perfect waters and gently waving palm trees. The nation's largest island, it lies just coating its interior and atmospheric old Mayan Rich reefs and marine life can be found just all being hugely popular pastimes. Number 13. St. Kitts &amp; Nevis. These warm and welcoming islands have a laid-back playing in the background. You can spend the day on St. Kitts exploring which will impress all kinds of travelers After, dance the night away at a club in Frigate On Nevis, wander around the capital, Charlestown, walk through abandoned sugar plantations that Last but not least, get out into nature and island! Number 12. Dominican Republic. If you're in the mood for a Caribbean holiday, It shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti It is the island where Christopher Columbus and which later became the first capital of You'll find plenty of evidence of the country's Today, however, people visit the Dominican water sports activities. Number 11. Cayman Islands. The collection of islets that make up the unique opportunities like the chance to swim They are still owned by Britain and most of of resorts and beachside condos. If you've come to the Caribbean to dive then you can't go wrong on Little Cayman. The island's Bloody Bay Wall is one of the Alternatively, stay on Grand Cayman for a Keep a lookout for blue iguanas as you explore a real treat. Number 10. Barbados. Barbados is a great choice for travelers on luxury destinations too. The island is also a great place to sample Surfing, windsurfing, and days on the beach the things the island has in store. You'll be spoiled for beaches on your trip, Once you tire of the sand and the sea, head strolling through the downtown area, which Heritage Sites. Number 9. Jamaica. Jamaica is a lively Caribbean Island that beaches. Jamaicans have a thirst for fun, and that Dancehall music is amongst the most popular third largest island. Laze on a tropical beach on the north shore Seven Mile Beach are, or head into the Blue If you're a reggae fan you can't leave of the legendary Bob Marley. Make your way to the town of Nine Mile and Number 8. U.S. Virgin Islands. The U.S. Virgin Islands constitute about 50 Some are so small they don't have a single St. Croix is the biggest, and it's most There's lots you can do from St. Croix, known for its colorful reefs. St John cloaks two-thirds of its area in parkland All are US territories, but they feel a world Number 7. St. Vincent &amp; The Grenadines. Scattered between St Lucia and Grenada there up St. Vincent &amp; The Grenadines. The main island, as you might have guessed, So why come here over some of the more well-known Well, the beaches are less crowded and the travelers looking for a tranquil and peaceful It's easy to island hop in St. Vincent &amp; The undiscovered island of Bequia from St. Vincent! Based on the island's pirate riddled history Number 6. Cuba. Long shaped by communism, Castro and the Cold with a rapidly expanding tourism industry. Visitors to the largest island in the Caribbean natural tourist attractions, crumbling forts, With iconic streetscapes full of pastel-colored capital of Havana is one of the most magical The perfect trip to Cuba will include Havana, and explore the incredible scenery and culture Number 5. British Virgin Islands. The British Virgin Islands are made up of As you might have guessed based on the name, belongs to Britain. There are some must-see destinations, like beaches at Cow Wreck Bay. You can also go treasure hunting on Norman buried there in 1843 is yet to be discovered! Other highlights of the islands are their Number 4. Curacao. Known for its beautiful beaches and coral destination. Located not too far off the Venezuelan coast, Aruba and Bonaire lying to either side of As it was colonized by the Dutch, the tropical cultural influences. Its capital Willemstad, for instance features but painted in beautiful pastel shades. Snorkeling and scuba diving are both hugely life and pristine coral gardens that surround Number 3. Turks &amp; Caicos. Turks and Caicos are a collection of some Territory, though some of them are no bigger The islands attract visitors thanks to their turquoise waters. The capital of the islands is Cockburn Town, You can expect pirate carvings from the 19th scuba diving through vibrant coral reefs, Don't leave without trying deep-fried conch Number 2. Antigua. Beaches, beaches, beaches! Antigua Island has a lot of beaches, around Probably due to its landscape, the island All-inclusive holidays are definitely easy for luxury or budget! Most of the resorts are along Dickenson Bay, The west coast is less of a beach destination, lovers will enjoy. Explore Nelson's Dockyard National Park, or sip on pina coladas on the beach in Half Number 1. St. Lucia. A tropical retreat in the Eastern Caribbean, about as scenic as it gets. Characterized by the iconic Pitons, lush rainforests, plantations, and some of the most beautiful While many fly in to take advantage of the the quaint fishing villages, the melting-pot port. From sulfur springs and secluded bays to bustling Lucia has a bit of everything.