We're trying fries from around the world. Let's talk about that Good Mythical Summer. Yes, we are in the summertime, we got. It's an ice cream parlor. Look at us. Big old ice cream flying through the walls. Popsicles. We got some melty ice cream. You know when, ice cream's so melty. Global warming. But also because this summer is gonna be a Not only are we bringing Wednesday, but we're also serving up a new, every Saturday. And, Well, Link, so clearly now. And no, that is not because Rhett reached Well, in a way I did, because this is our What? Oh, look how old they are. Oh, is that. That's why we haven't gone because we were afraid you'd see, our wrinkles. They are that old. It's a brand new technology. It's called four K. Yeah, I call it fork. Fork. Fork. On top of all of that stuff, Yes. Just like always, this summer will be filled with compete in all kinds of wild games. But this summer, a little more important Yes, we are playing to raise money for that we really want to support This is how this is gonna work. Every time Rhett wins a game, money will go toward an overall And whenever I win a game, going to Inner-City Arts. And I know what you're thinking. I feel sorry for Inner-City Arts. But you know what? This summer, Linky is bringing his A game. And he's calling himself Linky. Okay. And this whole Good Mythical extravaganza will culminate in the final week of the summer you've been asking for it, So we're gonna finalize the summer with The Smelling Bee. Yes. All right. I see darts. I see french fries. Where are french fries from? France. Trick question. They can be from anywhere. Yes. And today we're going to Where In The World Do These International Okay, today you're going to taste some fry. Hold on. Who did you call us. What? We're just boys? You're boys. It's boys summer, I've decided I really like boys. I tried for a long time. You did great. You like boys now? I mean. Hold on. We need to call Variety. Yeah. Hey. We're making all kinds No, you know, and I did what you said, and I just. I'm coming back around to it. I mean it in an endearing way, it's gonna be boys this summer for you. Okay. Not for me, but for you. I think I missed it, too. I'm glad it's back. Yeah. The boys are back in town. Boys are back. Today you're going to taste some fry dishes country you think they came from. And we are starting off this summer's because the winner of today's five hundred dollars to The loser will have to Also, Chase, the Fry-dy Krueger cartographer will Chase, are those what I think they are? They're fries. What do you call them, though? Knife fries. Fry, fry, frying-er nails. Yeah, sure. They're my. Maybe that would be it. Frying-er nails. Yeah. You don't have to have anything. You look awesome. Happy Friday. Is it Friday? No, it's Monday. Somewhere. It is somewhere. And finally, let's address the Link Link. You're not going to get darts today. Instead, you'll be throwing a single ketchuped Because. Okay. All right. Just let me take a second to address this. I graciously and humbly accept this Instead of these darts, Don't. Don't touch. Don't touch. It can fly, and it can, but you know what? They could cause harm if they And I've addressed this earlier, but I also want to address it here as we're bringing back this episode, this game. All right. I did something stupid with the darts, the last time we played this, was trying to make a comedic moment, and that failed miserably. But even worse than that, I put Chase in danger. I've been talking to. I've talked to Chase about it, and I apologized. It was a mistake that I am genuinely sorry for. And I'm evaluating my actions moving forward. And Chase has been haunting your dreams. Erratic as they may be. No, you haven't been haunting my dreams. We've been good. Yeah, we've been good. I'm not salty. But, I feel like we're in a good place. I feel like I'm applying the lessons But I do want you to know that I apologized to Chase. I own the mistake, and I was coming from a comedic place that failed miserably and was And that's not the type to Chase or to anybody. So I'm glad you didn't get hurt. Me too. As a show our friendship, That's probably pretty. Oh, God, no. I even tried to bite through it, So anything else? We're still good. Do I need to clarify any of that? We're still good. In fact, I think we're better. And I think my accuracy may be better anyway. I think you gave him a honestly. But you know what? I'm happy either way. And thank you for your concern. Heard. Can we dig into this? Yes. Oh, you asking me? Yes. Yes. That's what you do, is you eat the thing This is an egg. This is an egg. I thought it was cheese. There might be cheese in it, too. Yeah, it is egg. Because it looks like one of those Ooh, wow. With Ritz crackers and cheese. But it's just egg. This is great. So it's just like a flat. There is cheese on it. Cheesy omelet. Who's going first? Boy, it's good. Rhett goes first. He won the last game. Okay. Well, I've never seen this. Never seen it. Could be anywhere. It's got cilantro on it. Falkland Islands. Cilantro has made its way around the world. But, they put cilantro on stuff in Peru. I don't know that. I mean, surely they do, right? They got cilantro in Mexico, The winds bring it. That's how. Yeah, they couldn't. They couldn't help it. They couldn't get away All right. That's where you're going. No. Something about the fact that it's like, this one big thing on a plate that I have seen when they'll, like, that big. They'll make a plate out of bread that then you put food on top of. You know how they do that in Africa? You think that they would They do that in Ethiopia, Mauritania is, though. Mauritania. Mauritania. I think I may have. Dated her. Dated her in high school. I knew you were gonna say that. I've never heard of it. It's the first time I've ever seen it. Maybe I should just go for it. It is on the map. Why would they just put it? Why would they just put it on the map? Well, it's a country. Yeah, but it's gotta be. I mean, like, out of nowhere? Okay, I'm going for it. Germany. You really. You really worked, worked it. All right. How is it? Is this gonna? I don't know. Gotta live with the consequences. This is not permanent, though, right? I'd like to re-earn some trust here and maybe start using knives again. Well, one thing at a time, darts to knives. All right. If you endanger anybody with that fry, We're gonna downgrade Rhett's right a lot. Just rubber. And you're wrong about the fact that you weren't right, And I'm not afraid to go over there. Okay. But I gotta hedge my bets a little bit. So I'm gonna go in between which is Mauritania. Okay. Yeah. Oh, that was good. Yeah. And I do think it gives Now, I think you have to measure I'm fine with that. You can't just. Can't just be, like, wherever the extent of the ketchup goes, right? Because then he just gives an advantage. Yeah, I agree. I think that's right. You just had chipsi mayai, an incredibly popular dish said to be street corner in its country of origin. The name means eggs in french fries when translated from Swahili. Because this dish comes from Tanzania. Yep. We were close with the Mauritania. I should have gone for Tanzania and it was closer to it. Rhett, twenty-one. Link, nineteen. All right. What a pile of stuff. There's wieners, there's ketchup. It's like a hot dog loaded fry, basically. There's nothing in here that I wouldn't This is something that, again, I've never seen it. Never seen it. But I want. But it feels like something that my life up until this point. Right? Like, late at night, you're going downstairs. You're making a play to this. Mauritania's still on the board, so I feel like this is just. Just a fun take on an American hot dog experience in the Falkland Islands. No, I'm feeling more. I'm thinking South Korea. I'm thinking they would do this. An Americanized thing, I'm going to go a little west of it, so you might find my ketchup stain more in the Pakistan region. And I'm saying I'm doing that on purpose. Okay. My ketchup stain. Oh, little high. I like this. I was hoping. I love it. I was hoping that you might say something like wieners. Germany. Well, I could if it'd makes you happy. Because I'm also thinking South Korea, because they tend to do things in a lot of Asian countries where they and it's like something we haven't thought of, oh, all the stuff of hot dogs on ketchup, french fries. I've seen that in Japan a number of times. Right. So, South Korea is a great guess. I'm going to see if I can get closer. What's he doing? Yeah, I like that. Okay. All right. Okay. You just had makkaraperunat, a bed of french fries topped with most commonly mustard, onion, and mayo. It's a common street food that and this is gonna really hurt, Finland. See, you keep saying sausage. We just thought hot dog. Dang. Really? Really? All right. Rhett, thirty-eight. Link, twenty. Yes. Okay. Okay. It's a great idea. Before we try this dish, I want to remind you the charities all the money I win is Save the Children works to support from Gaza to Sudan to Haiti, Afghanistan, They do whatever it takes to learn, and are protected through No child should die all children should have access and no child should be Currently, Save the Children is doing vital where children are being Save the Children has been providing to Palestinian children, like distributing food, and hygiene supplies. And you can join us in donating to Save I will join, and I will be happy when you win so that it's donated. But I'm also gonna try to win because. Right. I got my own support that I'm gonna Inner-City Arts is a unique learning oasis for creativity and art in Skid Row, with a thirty year history of with the least access to art. Most programs are completely free, and Inner-City Arts has removed student interested in arts materials, and Rhett and I know firsthand It makes a real difference, So please join us in donating to Inner-City Thank you. It's a heated competition, and every. There's winners on all sides. That's right. I'll be happy to lose to you today, which I currently am. So what are these greasy fries? They're glistening. Sweet. It's like a clear. It's like a sugar sauce. Still salty, though. What else is in that? Some sort of. That's good. That's good. Dang. Is there, like a? Good God, man. Caramel sauce happening here? Is it vanilla? I can't. Or is it just, like an icing flavor? I don't know, bro. A little bit of. But it's your turn. Spice. It's your turn. Yeah, there's a mounting spice here. Be careful, with those fries. Just try one. Can I put one in my claw? You may. Man. What on Earth? Who likes to take something that It's like a pancake. I'm thinking. I mean, which isn't on there. So that leads me down to Peru again. Who else could be doing this? That's way over there. That's scary. My answer is Peru. I'm going to hedge a little to the east, which puts me back at Mauritania. I just. I love Mauritania. Never heard of it until now. She was great. She was great. She was great. I love it. Oh, that's really high. It's not, that one. Every fry is different. You're in Germany. That didn't work out for me. So, when I saw this, at first I thought it That's definitely gonna send me to Peru. But then it turned out to be spicy, It's still spicy. I feel like, I have an opportunity here. Unless for some reason, which doesn't make sense to me. But. Me neither. Because they could do something I've been to a Peruvian restaurant, many Peruvian restaurants, And I've never seen french fries. I've never seen anything like this. Usually there's really good ceviches. Oh, it's so good. Let's, just focus. I am focusing. I'm using reasoning to try to figure out why I, why would I have not seen This would be like a dessert But they might be like, this street food in Indonesia. Like, they take french fries and Yeah, they love it. They love it there. Yes. Yes. There's so many islands. Can you believe it? Davin's from there. Like, that would be what you you know, if I'm just. If you were in my thoughts. That was my thoughts out loud. Yeah. Thank God I'm not in there. I think I just talked myself into Indonesia. Oh, man. Could be Peru. I'm not hedging my bets, though. I'm going directly for what I think it is. That is close. I hit it. No, but you got really close. Am I in an island? Oh, but you're still in the ocean. Yep. Still in the ocean. I love this for me, by the way. But it could be Peru, You just had honey butter fries, salty, spicy combo so popular in this on the McDonald's menu in South Korea. All right. Okay. All right. All right. That helps the Rhett-ster. Oh, man. All right. Link, thirty-five, and Rhett, it was fifteen. Oh, you just tied it up. We just tied it up. Going into the final round. Good Mythical Summer. You may have thought I went to but I didn't. We just have a new shirt. The Belvedere's Ice Cream Shop Shirt comes We got, we got the vanilla, we've got the chocolate, and, of course, we've got a strawberry. It's like Neapolitan. Do you see? And a keychain. So it's the Good Mythical Summer vibes, Get it at mythical.com, you could get all three, make it look like it was ice cream, Now, this is a salad with which is. I don't know. That's a little incongruent. Never. I've never thought to do this. I've had fries on my plate, but I've never thought of I mean, croutons are potatoes, aren't they? No, they're not. Who does this? I mean, I don't hate it. If this is the only way to I guess it's effective. All right, so we're tied. It's a mystery round. If you're tied going into the final round, So it means I will go first again. Okay. I like that. So a place that does fries in a is Belgium. Oh, snap. Right? Which is that little can barely see. So, just going. I'm going to what I think is Belgium. Okay. I was. I went to Sweden. I went to Sweden. Went to Sweden. So, I mean, in Ireland. Oh, you think this is Ireland? Yeah. Okay. Can you get your wet fry up there? I lost my accuracy. See if I can regain it. Hit the blarney. Oh, yeah. That's gonna be tough. Did I touch it? Because if it's not Norway or whatever that country Oh, crap. I was aiming for the wrong country. Yeah, you're hurting, bro. I forgot that that was. Because we're aiming. We're measuring from the I just aimed for the wrong place, It happens to the best of us. It's also like seeing a red dart and a is quite the challenge. I commend you, Fry-dy. Fry-dy Krueger. This dish has a murky backstory of one of which alleges a customer at went off menu and asked for a extra fries, Obviously with a name it's no question that this dish Link, I think we may be almost exactly the same. Well, let's let Chase tell us. Pittsburgh Salad? This is a Pittsburgh Salad. It's good. All right, Link, you had twenty-eight, and Rhett, you had twenty-six. No! You just won seven thousand five hundred Yes! Yes! And also, the punishment I mentioned for the loser at the top involves eating pieces of a raw potato, I'm sorry. Gosh, I'll take it. Thanks for subscribing You know what time it is. Hi, and I'm standing next to Big Ben with my and it's time to spin Too much going on, Ben. Slow down, man. I love the tattoo, though. Click the top link to watch us compete from Sporked in Good Mythical More. And to find out where the Wheel Beat the summer heat with a sweet Shop the new tees and key tag