Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. Here's the story we like to tell about the evenly everywhere, but if you rewind that compacted in an infinitesimal point of infinite The expansion of the universe from this point story because it's the correct conclusion from followed Einstein's general theory of relativity so much more. Does our modern on a point-like Big Bang? Recent work actually The key to understanding whether the universe had we call a past singularity--whether all points And from the earliest models of the expanding Alexander Friedmann and Georges Lemaitre solved back in 19-teens and twenties, they found that, converged on one point at the start of time. example that the universe is perfectly smooth lumpy or we wouldn't have galaxies. Could universe converging on a single point? We'll The fact that the universe is mostly perfectly our prediction of a beginning of time. To explain we needed to add something called cosmic inflation universe into a smooth giant universe. At first exponential expansion that lasted for a tiny we realized that this inflationary period didn't creating bubble universes like ours, in which that continues growing everywhere. But if this could it last forever into the past? If So, our description of the universe has 100 years. We're going to need to carefully we find a beginning. So we choose a and we trace those coordinates into the past cannot trace them any further. This can happen up"--becomes infinite. We call such points there's a singulartiy in the past where all paths is interpreted as the time before which there that you've heard of where a singularity Consider the black hole. The simplest type of metric. If we trace the Schwarzschild coordinates up in two places. One is expected--at the center singularity--infinite spacetime warping. But There, it appears that the coordinate of time that horizon. We might be tempted to interpret wrong. Just because Schwarzschild coordinates and time end there. Sorry, you don't bounce off We only need a simple-ish a map across the event horizon singularities. For example, Eddington-Finklestein allows this continuous mapping all the way down to that does not go away. The event horizon is what spherical coordinates have a singularity at We say that spacetime is extendable coordinate shift reveals the space beyond. we reveal new spaces that look like a mirror fully extended coordinates... because we can, in But the central singularity of the black light ray can be traced through this state that spacetime ends at the no coordinate shift that extends our So what about the beginning of the and if so is it a real physical end-of-spacetime is it a coordinate singularity like the event To figure this out, we need another tool. It's something we've discussed So, a geodesic is the shortest relativity. It describes the curved or the straight path traveled out of one. which is a path on which time itself Geodesics are normally thought of as in that you can keep tracing these spacetime particle. But sometimes a geodesic will reach a These are points of geodesic incompleteness, spacetime--like the end of the map. The singularity such a point. Geodesic incompleteness is how Roger singularities with his black hole singularity Geodesic incompleteness by itself is pretty nagging worry that we plotted our geodesics in hole event horizon. Another sure sign of the is that the curvature blows up-- the strength If we can find such a curvature singularity in a we can pretty much guarantee that the fabric OK, so now that we have some sharper tools let's see what we can find. Well, for geodesic incompleteness the did have a beginning. All geodesics--from Earth's orbit around the Sun--can be in the same infinitesimal point. And that's even inflation. Demonstrating this past geodesic assumptions. For example, many arguments which is a sort of add-on to the main equation negative mass densities. But things probably get so it would be nice if we didn't even More recently in 2003, Borde, Guth and Vilenkin incompleteness that didn't require an energy that the average expansion rate was always (BGV) theorem, which states that any universe its history can't have been expanding OK, great. But can we be sure that this beginning to spacetime? What if like it was through the black hole event horizon? black holes--whether curvature becomes infinite. physical singularity in its past. If it can extend our spacetime, but we'd need to This is what Geshnizjani, Ling, and last year. They applied a curvature of different universes to check The results depend on the expansion that the BGV theorem tells us that only expanded over their history must have as a beginning. This new study finds that don't have to begin with a singularity, and a universe that expanded after a prior phase don't have to have past singularities. At the to violate certain energy conditions of general This isn't really an entirely new you need to break some aspect a beginning to the universe. Otherwise Universe that have only ever expanded, do have a beginning. But in the researchers do find one unusual case Remember that an inflating universe has function with no vertical offset looks like but also plateaus approaching but never reaching even this ever-expanding universe should past. There should be some sort of past boundary That boundary can be depicted a Penrose diagram. These represent past boundaries of the universe if there's no way to Except, as it turns out there is a way. type of spacetime that could extend to Our universe is pretty well Friedmann-Lemaitre-Robertson-Walker metric. universe that I mentioned earlier this episode. as cosmic inflation or as dark energy--then of something called de Sitter space. In fact, as of our universe--our patch of FLRW space--as The details of this are a bit much the BGV theorem insists that our universe map a null geodesic across that boundary then we time. But the new work shows there may be a or have traveled from--the larger de Sitter If our universe is extendable in this way, universe into a coordinate singularity rather than Now this extended spacetime may be - probably is - as illusory as the white hole and mirror universe of the that we have here a case where it's not rewinds into a non-traversable curvature A word of caution though. In order to make FLRW section--has to transition smoothly for it to do that is for the exponentially the cosmological constant--to dominate over any universe. If those density fluctuations are the past boundary of our universe and we But any significant density fluctuations would turn this transition into a hard curvature there's anything "before" it. And our universe very early times--otherwise we would YouTubers today. It's interesting that glossed over when they predicted the big OK, that bodes poorly for an infinite past for time. But the resolution of this is buried in the our theory of quantum gravity, because, even density in the past, our current understanding of The most stunning thing about this sort or not there was a beginning to the current answer is still probably yes. To me hope to answer questions that seem like they pure reason we can learn one way or another Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. with thousands of interactive lessons Brilliant helps build your critical thinking Each lesson is filled with hands-on problem And if you're into vector mathematics, a fundamental concept for describing motion and orientation in space, Brilliant released a new course on Vectors. With this course you'll learn the basics of vector operations, including scaling, transformations, polar coordinates, and the dot product. You can enhance your ability to visualize and solve complex problems in multidimensional spaces. And you'll apply your newly developed skills to program a game, and design a logo to gain insights into how the physics of motion translate to a digital environment. To try everything Brilliant has to visit brilliant.org/spacetime or click on you'll also get 20% off an Hey Everyone. On September 26th, 1905 of special relativity and altered the course of of relativity, we have two new items at the merch embroidered patch. And next up is our 2D Light pin and the patch, you have everything you need to derive both special relativity all on your own in case you ever get time traveled back to 1904. This limited edition pre-sale will end of November. Just go to PBSspacetime.com/shop