This man's name is Mohamed Sifaoui. He is an original journalist and against the GIA, the Islamist groups In February 1996, a car bomb Around forty people were killed, Mohamed Sifaoui had left his office like all his colleagues, he is Later he opposed the power of He left Algeria and obtained Since then, he has investigated the This is why he came to the Paris courthouse, and Smain Ait Ali Belkacem, 2 men accused of organizing And there, his life turned upside down once again, One of them thought he recognized Mohamed Both had frequented But Karim Burty had Mohamed Sifaoui had the presence He invented a false identity for himself, and introduced himself as a journalist Karim tried to convince him to This is how it began in the intimacy of a fundamentalist network, it is Because after having gained Karim's trust, to make a film for this propaganda. It is this story that - To shoot, I called on a as sensitive to his theses. Many of the images you - They play and they eat like Fire is their home. For him, things are simple, those who do not submit to What Karim doesn't know is that I can which I hide in one of my hands. Karim is not unknown. In 1998, than a hundred other Islamists. The network thus dismantled was He belonged to the GSPC, the group an Algerian terrorist organization which is led by Hassan Hattab, a chef Karim's group was suspected during the Football World Cup, of the rector of the mosque Karim Burkey had been he was released after Since his release, Karim has continued In all cases, those For example, he is very active detained in French prisons. He told me that he It is also in this approach to be able to show that those of its members who find themselves So he decided to take us to visit a condemned man - Those which are made of Arcy wood, those who are in all It means: "Be patient, may Allah It is Islam that will reign, 2 other men took their places in about thirty kilometers from Paris. They appear to be new recruits that they don't let go Between us, we call ourselves brothers. Karim presented it to me as who recently joined the group. - I investigated this man called Reda. because it is indirectly involved in In reality, he was using a false passport who had assassinated Commander Massoud, It's in the prison parking lot, that we came to see Nasser Mamache, an engineer who had been arrested in Nice The investigation showed that Mamache had He was sentenced to 5 years in prison. No question of introducing a camera The cameraman films us from outside. But Karim does not have a visit permit food parcels to prisoners We leave disappointed. He would like to know the cost This is where we will type. Karim mentions to me the possibility I don't dare ask him But this single mention seems to strengthen Karim has cassettes that allow - These are religious songs that is, when they go into battle those who want to sow And for him those who sow corruption And these must be terrorized. - You say what you want We are already terrorists You terrorize, the enemy When brothers and sisters I can't pronounce his first name, when he kills Muslims in Iraq, We don't care anymore, Now these are the deeds, If you want to put us all in Karim lives in Belleville, He knows a lot of people there. In Belleville, there is a Here, few people are fundamentalists, but In Belleville, there are bookstores and shops selling chador Many of these businesses are Traders do not have of certain extremist groups. were extorted by It's been 2 months since I met He often takes me to prayer of rue Jean-Pierre Timbaud, in On Friday, the mosque takes over the street. Residents do not dare to protest This mosque has the reputation of being It is monitored by Ali Salah, one of the men who testified frequented her. Boualem Bensaid, author was a regular here. Karim now has confidence in me. He revealed to me that he has hideouts and he decided that we to record our interviews This is an apartment located He arranged to meet us there. - Karim gave me the keys. We arranged to meet here. In fact, Karim was waiting for us there. There are only Islamist books And then four mattresses that seem A few days earlier, Karim told me that this hideout, had hosted young people before young people like Karim and a few Among them, Jamal Loiseau and Brahim Yadel. Djamel Loiseau, it's this Frenchman who left which we found frozen, Brahim Yadel, another French Taliban and that they hold - Djamel, I met him at the mosque and to leave to learn legitimate science. - They had the means to learn - Not quite, they had the possibility Because we, to tell you, We also learned a little and For Karim, the essential the war against the infidels. - Go and do jihad, it's a favor They choose martyrs among you. So it's a big favor and it's not According to Karim, the height of happiness it is to end up as martyrs. - There are many who fought, several years, they have not He left once, he is to die in Tora-bora This is a great favor, we don't say that he is dead, because - You think there will be others - Yes, lots of young people. There are even women, I assure you, there are even women who are I told you we, our community, - Currently in France, is he - There are plenty of people who want It's not just in France, Karim agreed that we whom he indoctrinates at the Omar mosque. - There are young people there who seem to come from others failing at school, Muslims of origin, - Karim presents these meetings as these are indoctrination sessions the young are submissive, You should know that he is not because he has no theological training. But also, you should know that it without asking anyone's opinion. - We must have conviction it is Allah who removes evil, it is Allah who gives life. Submission is the basis of his speech. The second part of his teaching, anyone who gets in the way must be removed even your father, even your mother. - I ask you a question, if your mother do you obey? No, we cannot obey. She must not tell me Very quickly, they arrive There, things are simple, one of the - The one who says that whoever claims that these that it is democracy that is good, You understood me my brothers, That is to say, sovereignty and we offer sovereignty to whom? - We Muslims, we have Islam, when we say Islam, it is a way or who says that I am Muslim, this one is not a Muslim, Fundamentalists use They are primarily interested in prey that they They push them to reject everything school and everything - Allah takes us to this world, This world is a prison for I don't want that paradise. - Since when, - About 3 months ago, I came and he guided us to his guidance. Learn Islam and religion. I too, before I was lost, I am Muslim, but, like lots of people, lots of young people. - I noticed that all these than that of Djamel Loiseau It is also estimated that 400 young people in training camps It should also be noted that the majority they make a living in particular from small-scale trafficking, During this investigation, I made who left the group more than a year ago. He was recruited by Karim in 1997, along with around fifty others among which there were He understood very quickly He agreed to tell me. For his safety, his face - Once, we participated in a to take the place of the one who It was at that moment that I I was being taken for a c**, hitting me on the head, telling me me who took myself for the greatest but with fatal force. It's a beautiful religion, I would have been for, to participate in jihad. I wouldn't see why I I am intact, I come, under the pretext towards its president, towards these people. 30 lives have just gone up in the air What have I gained? And we They dirty us every day. Karim told me that a man was He is an Islamist who for forming a terrorist group. It's in a Moorish cafe in Belleville that Karim gave me an appointment to His name is Othmane. He benefited from an amnesty law, after spending 3 years, - You obtained your visa via - Yes, via the embassy - They didn't bother you - No, I had an invitation, I had it - Ah good ? Did you do it yourself? - Yes, I had a fake stamp. - What did you have - Trader. But you know, real traders I'm not talking to you about traffickers, And real importers, There is a brother who told me that there I didn't know these invocations, - You have to give them to me - It's easy, you throw the letter away Islamists believe in just as they are certain that 72 Karim convinced Othman to let himself that I'm supposed to prepare. Othman is housed in a squat Tunisians. Among them, a man and who has been recycled for 2 years It's Lotfi. He is currently wanted but with his false papers, he did not Before letting him speak Othmane the Algerian dictates to him - You base yourself well But don't say powder, say drugs. who have a strong faith. You say: &quot;These are - If I tell you in detail how for 5 years, they have For 5 years they were looking for me I was in a big drug deal. I supplied companies, people The mass of money was - How long has it been? - It's been 10 months. I was on the run for drugs, I have already been arrested for terrorism. Lotfi is wanted because the with the Al-Qaeda network against the American embassy in Rome. The Islamists are ahead there are no borders and while European police Anyway, Lotfi, Karim, set out to conquer the world. - The definition of terrorism. The Muslim state, it is the State which is governed Even though the majority of And the disbelieving State is the State which Even though the majority of Today there is no house of peace, today all countries are houses - You consider that all countries - All countries are houses of war! - What does terrorism mean? - Allah told us: "Terrorize We have to terrorize them. For what ? God told us that we Because when we make war Even if we lose today, we are winners, I am a winner because I will go to heaven. - The Islamists indeed consider by Islamist laws are what that is to say territories in which The houses of peace are the countries which the only ones who applied these laws The next day I invited I hope they will tell me more about the Karim takes us into a The meat here is halal - The media says that we I am proud to be a terrorist. Allah said: "Prepare for them - As force and cavalry to terrorize - The fighter does not die, God said: in the path of God are dead. We don't die. That day, Mohamed Sifaoui did not were preparing an action. On December 16, the management services call out in La Courneuve, in the north Police find chemicals One of them returns His name is Mohamed Merbah. The police believe he was planning The next day, December 17, The police have reportedly established that he has connections The police also suspect him this Brit with the booby-trapped shoes, who - I believed at that moment that my So I decided to investigate with traffickers of false documents. for Islamist groups it allows them to pass A few days earlier, who lives clandestinely and he told me that if I had I just had to call him. Ahmed has no professional activity, including false papers. The man made an appointment with me Initially, we will When I arrive, Ahmed takes me to a He explains to me that he is suspicious and - Beautiful city ? There is only This is why I say every time, to Karim and those I respect There are plenty of information services. You know, the Minister of the Interior In any case, the right only puts they can't put Ahmed immediately accepts that to integrate it into the propaganda film. He took us to his house, because he He displays without hesitation his the man who is in power in his country. - If I know how to reach him, I'll kill him. - Yes. My hatred against Ben Ali is not If I know how to reach him, I'll kill him, Even if they want to imprison me here, Because Ben Ali kills me every day. If I threaten him one day, If Ahmed is angry with the Tunisian regime, it's because this one has I want the establishment of a state and I dream of participating in this What he wants is the application that encourage women to wear outfits - I would prohibit this freedom There is no freedom other than that which This is freedom, that of But this freedom which allows him and betray her husband, that, This is the rot that to degrade our women and children. There is a racist Zionist crusade - Are you thinking of a religious war? It is a crusade that emerged from a called Bush. At the end of our interview, that I am looking for false papers He tells me that he will - There is a brother who came from Italy, and who wants to pass - We can bring him a real passport. We will bring him a passport There is someone who makes them He will go and remove it from the town hall himself. - How long ? Don't worry, all the costs, We will change their name - Can we get him out? - Don't worry, I'll take care of it. - You already did it ? - I told you about Habib, who It was me who did it France is not the only country where just like those of the GSPC, During my investigation, the police against a cell of this GSPC. In the early morning, the Guardia Civil Most are of Algerian origin. The men arrested do not have beards, like many operational they think they can go unnoticed more easily. The police discovered A hard blow for the terrorists because This is what passes through who leave for the Algerian maquis, that some of the networks find Because in Madrid, the Islamists control Bank cards. In Madrid, I have a contact. We'll call him George. For his He agreed to show me how which allow terrorists to pay The first step is to find the fakes Georges organizes the meeting with a Swiss or French identity cards. The man is Afghan and his The forger fills them with the name and Then, it remains to make the - There are machines in the like the one at the entrance to banks. It's the same system, the one where we put It's the same thing when the customer pays, we also introduce our card which will save all the data. Then just on the magnetic strip of a blank card. Magnetic tape does not record and for a few days, the fake card will be able to debit Georges agreed that we where he will use one of his fake cards. He took us - These cards are valid On the third day, the bank blocks it. I buy a card like this for EUR600. It can earn me EUR3,000 to EUR4,000. And if I'm lucky, she Worst case scenario, she reimburses me At the register. So Georges comes out and the fake passport that goes with it. Only in France and Belgium The first card does not work. This account is empty. Never mind, Georges leaves but on another account and another bank. - Do you know many Islamists, who work in the - The Islamists are the ones who hold In London, Scotland, Canada, All the Islamist networks that have used fake cards On my return to Paris, I had who told me that he had organized everything who wants to settle in England. I In reality, the cameraman and I still have my hidden mini-camera. When I join him, Ahmed is Business conversation, obviously. Ahmed not only provides but he told me it was - So what is - I saw someone. He works He told me that within 2 weeks, a driving license and social security, a driving license and possibly - Will he be able to travel with his passport? - How much does it cost ? But in EUR9000, you count one An identity card, That's something for sure. It happens - If you tell me that you know them well, - Don't worry, he's a friend, it is he himself who will do them. - He's not likely to betray us? - Don't worry, he does He is old and wants to pick up If I understood correctly, wants to supplement his retirement by selling After four days of custody The magistrates did not have enough When a few days later, I found him, he tells me that he is getting ready to meet some of to whom he must bring money. Omar Saiki, who is considered He was sentenced to 4 years in prison, who were preparing attacks for the Cup in September 2002 he was dismissed Since then, he has lived clandestinely in England. And Karim then explains to me, for the organization of the group. - Do you know Adel Michat? - Yes, I hear about him, the one who - He called me. How much was he sentenced to? - Why did he take it? - Adel Mechat told them directly He is the head of the GSPC in Europe and The one he presents as Adel Mechat was arrested for the preparation of attacks which were to He is serving his sentence, the date of his It must take place I ask Karim if the police that he would have had with those who - They said to me: "You know Did I tell them where I know them from? - But you, do you know Mohamed? - He's the one you were supposed to introduce to me. When he came to pick me up the brothers told him: "Don't come back again." I told him that we could In reality, because he speaks to me one of those who because they were suspected That day, Karim gave me some tapes so that he can pass them around. so that I can give them back to him. - I brought you the tape but - Have you looked at the others? These cassettes aim to show always win, like here in Chechnya, an ambush to kill the soldiers Some of the images are impossible to show on television, we only kept - I regain my morale when Others come from the Indonesian jungle, candidates for jihad. - You have to be sure, we like to die for Allah, you, that is, the disbelievers We fight to die because You, you will die, There are still terrorists On Sunday January 5 in the morning, the police north of London, at home, we especially a castor poison. The 6 men are Islamists 2 are French. Many Islamists because for twenty years London The most extremist ideologues and call for holy war, the British let things be said and done. There is Omar Bakri who calls for in Great Britain. And then Abu who, in his sermons, legitimizes Or even Abou Hamza, this former of the Finsbury Mosque, which calls for killing the disbelievers. A few days after the arrests Karim made an appointment with us for us to accompany him to London. He wants us to film it the head of the GSPC in France, Karim told me that another Islamist wants to meet me. His name is Abu Hanas. At London station, the police The day before, a police officer was Karim passes without anyone I also didn't have but the police intercepted me. My mini camera was stored in For a quarter of an hour, I was Karim is very fit, - For us, it's Head to Finsbury Park. This is the district where there are This is where we must He arranged to meet us at to be able to ensure that Karim asked me not to film so much It's the hidden camera that's rolling. In reality, his gaze is on the alert and in case we are followed. It must be said that for 4 months, He has an activity, he is responsible He takes us there. - This is the mosque. Here, we must not talk about jihad So here, we don't display ideas we are discreet. The mosque where Saiki works I noticed, however, that Saiki is cautious. He takes precautions. He takes away our bags without and places them far from us, He looks furious and addresses Karim. - You come without knowing what is happening. You you don't know this neighborhood, you don't know You are in serenity, So any movement, - Do you know why I came? - It does not matter. I am going to tell you something Don't think what's in your head. You trained young people who came here, The English don't joke And you, a week later, while Did you come to inquire about the situation? So when I told you: The people of Trappes. This revelation immediately reminds me 2 days before, in Paris. I had to find Karim in the When I arrived, he was He introduced them all to me. - So, are you coming with us? - That's when I understood that in Belleville only, but in other mosques According to Saiki's own words, who are currently in We suggest Omar Saiki go out and film it in the street. - If we go out together in a group, with backpacks, cameras, you who are a preacher in Trappes, You don't think it's a good one You don't think that our meeting is not due to chance? Did you go to see Abu Hanas? - No, I didn't dare call him. - Do you want me to call him? Abu Hanas is Abdallah Hanas. He was one of the first to go and confront the Soviet army His father-in-law is Abdallah Azzam, the father he is the founder of the Arab Legion. Bin Laden and Abu Hanas Old accomplices. Abou Hanas is therefore the senior official He asked me to come alone. I'm going to our date who will try to film us from afar. Abou Hanas, that's him, he's 20 years older, the beard is shorter, He had been expelled from France for his activities in favor of Islamism. Then he moved to London where He takes me to a restaurant I invent a family and a life And then he gets down to business - There will be other armed revolutions. The seed of discord still exists. And as long as it exists, Even if it calms down 4 or The main thing today is to The turmoil of the nation This is where the media comes in The general idea is that it that we control, that belongs to us that we have set for ourselves. As you know, information how we can put it At one point, while he's talking to me, on my camera lens. A few seconds and then a second time, With my right hand, But I feel that he is asking questions. To avoid taking more A little later, I found Karim, Omar Saiki accompanies us until Karim had announced that he had an appointment He refused to give me his name. at the mosque on rue Polonceau, I offered to accompany him. He doesn't know that we - I will introduce you to others - Are they in action? Like most operational staff, this one doesn't look like He doesn't have a beard, he is suspicious, he greets us, a few words, then, he leaves with Karim. I won't know more The next day, I found Karim. I hope he will tell me more He evades my question, stops Karim promises me that I - Tell me what's in the works - You need the money first. Brothers need - But currently, there is - Be patient, it's not a game, you think it's like we - No, I'm asking you this question I don't know if it's necessary - Yes, get ready because we are going - Is that how you see it? - Like this, where to face them So, to confront them, - Buy weapons in France? - Yes, in France wherever you want. Because you know, when you come home you put it in your head that you are already dead. For me, I'm already dead. This business is not a game. you think i'm going to go Can you imagine what 30 years in prison is like? The believer never gets bitten twice. I will never know if Karim an attack in Paris. Because on January 22 he was arrested. An imam and a member of an association against him for beating Since then, Karim Burty has been put in and imprisoned in La Sante prison. Adel Meshat, the head of the GSPC for Europe, He was accused of having prepared from his cell. The Parisian judges have it Omar Saiki still lives Othmane, Lotfi and Ahmed circulate but in the streets of Paris. Mohamed Sifaoui continues to