Start your day off right with the free In Touch devotional. Subscribe today. CC by Aberdeen Captioning male announcer: &quot;In Touch,&quot; the teaching ministry reaching the world with Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: Adversity, in which you and I live. Think about it for a moment. When you think in terms we could come up with all kinds A time of difficulty, a time of disaster, of trauma, of crisis, of trials, affliction, suffering, Everywhere you look, this This is a terrible time of Anywhere you put your finger you'll find all kinds of trials Now when you go through a trial how do you respond? You complain? Do you ask God what's going on? Why are You treating me How do you respond when Those times of trial and burden that, And when you try what you're going through, you But it's in adversity It's a time of great trial And you desperately need to hold your hand, to encourage you in some way. Would that be true of you today? Would all of these words what you're going through? How are you responding? And so, I want you to Second Corinthians, beginning in verse twenty-three. And if you'll turn there and I just want to read this passage of scripture time of great adversity And he lays the foundation I'm going to read, with His description And he says, beginning of the eleventh chapter, I speak as if insane, I more so; in far more imprisonments, often in danger of death.&quot; Explaining all the things he's been through &quot;Five times I received from And at the end of those lashes that cut through the flesh. Three times I was beaten once I was stoned.&quot; And remember this. He was stoned and left He says, &quot;three times a night and a day I have spent Trying to survive, &quot;I have been in dangers from my countrymen, dangers in the city, dangers on the sea, I have been in labor through many sleepless nights, often without food, And apart from there is the daily pressure that I have for all Now the next time you have &quot;Ohhhh, poor me! I just--&quot; Just read this eleventh chapter of the Apostle Paul. He knew what real adversity And you know, he spent years And finally, Nero had him beheaded. You'd think, &quot;Well, that wasn't I can't imagine why God You want me to tell you why? Here's a reason why. Because if the Apostle Paul all of those years, in the Mediterranean area the gospel to the last day you know what You wouldn't have Ephesians and on and on we go. God used the most difficult, to bless us, and bless us, of our life and following the Apostle Paul. Which leads me to say this. All adversity is not bad. It's a matter It's a matter of how He could have sat in prison and &quot;Why am I here? Why don't You get me God, if You're who I say why don't You get me out And you read and you know what the theme while he's in jail? Joy! And how many people do you know have joy? The difference is between and believe that God can take and turn it into something good, But if I respond the wrong way, sorrow and all these our way and glean And when people do, They get bitter. Now the one thing you don't want they're always spewing it, He did this. Hm-hm-hm. Or, you can have the kind that understands what And so, what I want I want us to do, I want you at what adversity's all about, and I want to begin We need to look at adversity, however it affects your life. Whether it's sickness, trial, name it, and you lose lost job, Think about it in this light. Adversity is universal, that is, It's everywhere. You face it on your job. You face it among your friends. In other words, adversity, tough times everywhere. Secondly, it's impartial. It makes any difference how poor you may be, Believers and unbelievers, adversity reaches every single It's because we live And as a result of that, And of course, it's painful, it's physically painful. Great hurt comes of how people treat each other. Sometimes it's sudden. You get in your car to go and you don't get five miles You have an accident, Or you go to the doctor and and you can't wait to tell him and he tells you, &quot;Let me And you walk away full of why God's doing what He's doing. And so, sometimes It goes on for years And I think the people with are people who have been sick Or they have gone for example, in their marriage. They stick together, thirty, forty years they'd never seen each other, But it's a miserable marriage, they should not separate or And sometimes it's very intense. And, once in a while, who hurt so badly, in listening In other words, there is pain. There is hurt that is so deep you cannot help but share of what they're feeling in life. And then of course, There are some things that And if you ask me, for all adversity? The answer is, &quot;Absolutely not.&quot; But on the other hand, Can I tell you to suffer the way they do? No, I can't. If you ask me, &quot;Will God turn into something good?&quot; Yes, He will if you and Now, there are that people ask And the first one why do You allow this Why? And somebody says, &quot;Well, you won't ask why.&quot; Well, you and I know somebody don't we? Jesus said, &quot;My God, My God, When He was bearing-- and the reason because He was bearing of all mankind for all ages His mind, His will, His emotion. My God, My God, why hast Thou Even though He had a oneness unequalled by anything you He was feeling it, He was bearing it, and He was asking, &quot;My God, My God, And I'm grateful He did who ask the same question. My God, My God, why do You Just take me home, God. Or, why have You allowed So, the question of why is And let me just say this God doesn't get upset He knows why you ask Him why. And He understands your lack and your lack of knowledge. Because you see, you and I look but He's also already seen And that's why God can do the and changing our attitude doing all kind of things in our our ache and our pain, He's up to and what He intends And so, when the question it reminds me of that song, &quot;Trials dark on every hand all the ways that God would lead But He'll guide me with His eye and I'll understand it And then the chorus goes &quot;By and by when when the saints of God we'll tell the story Hallelujah. &quot;And we'll understand it Whoever wrote that song had was all about, because the truth you and I will never fully on the other side of life. So, the question is, &quot;Why There are some situations and God only will know. But I believe that He will show us why in the right way and for the And, of course, there's and that's who? That's who's behind this? Well, one of--for example, suffer adversity, the &quot;who&quot; It's actions that they've done, sins that they've committed, and how they've responded how they've responded to others. And in their selfishness and and all the rest. So, one of the reasons of, well &quot;who&quot; can be me. That is, if I sin against God, and so, what happens? We're just, we're just following He said, &quot;We'll reap So, think about this. If you live a life indifference to the Word of God, or whatever it might be, why there is adversity No, you don't. And, I was talking to someone and I thought I was going of why they were going they were going through, the person said, It's decisions that and l look back and realize that got me where I am. I was blessed, but grieved That at least they understood through the adversity Our sin brings on adversity Satan. He is behind it. Satan hates godly people. And when you look for example, you read What happened and how but how He blessed him And then of course, of some of our adversities. You say, &quot;Now wait a minute. You mean that God loves me and will allow me to go and heartache and loss?&quot; And the answer is yes. Yes, He will. We don't even need to read Look at what Paul wrote He says, &quot;All of these things and have survived, besides of all the churches Remember these weren't churches They were groups of people and they did not have a Bible And imagine the kind of things when it comes to their doctrine in the middle of a Roman Empire with wickedness and vileness And here's a group of believers, there--and he felt responsible. And so, Does He even send it? Yes, He does. Second Corinthians listen carefully. The question's, does-- we know it's because of our sin of the devil. But listen to this. &quot;Because of the surpassing for this reason, to keep me there was given to me a messenger of Satan to keep me from exalting myself! Concerning this I implored, to the Lord three times God, deliver me from this. &quot;And He said to me, for power is perfected Most gladly, therefore, about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ Therefore, I am well content with insults, with distresses, for Christ's sake, then I am strong.'&quot; So, does God allow it? Yes. Can God be behind it? Yes. But for the most part, and they begin to suffer And of course, Satan's always and difficulties. But what you and I have We have to look at our lives &quot;Did I bring this on myself?&quot; Because this is the law of God. It's the law we live by. We reap what we sow, later than we sow. And either I do it to myself and we have God's help and Or it may be something that And adversity can be if we're willing to eliminate &quot;Okay, God, You see, if you remember of Paul's adversities, all and God didn't remove it, till the Lord showed him, in your life to protect you. Listen. I'm going to protect you I'm going to protect you from some other way than the way And when the Apostle Paul for whatever God was doing look how God used him. Thank God for those jail terms, he was writing for you and me, And he suffered as no one the Lord Jesus Christ and look And so, when I look at all that and I want to just mention to remember when we're going and the first one is this. Adversity is one of God's for strengthening our faith, in times of trial and adversity. And if I trust Him, And nothing, nothing changes, and nothing changes, nothing seems to change. But what's happening? It looks like it's not changing, I'm trusting Him and watching and enabling me to live through and whatever it may be. And so, it's a time for, Secondly, When God sends adversity He never sends it to hurt us, God always allows it to help us, Now we may feel the pain, But ultimately, He's in in some way. And God helped the Apostle Paul. And somebody says, Don't give me that I'm not the Apostle Paul. I'm not a missionary.&quot; And on people go. I say, wait a minute. He was just a man. He was a man given a task unequal like any task God And he had to learn just how to respond to God will do something good But you have to remember And then, a third principle important ones, in our adversity, He's always there. Sometimes you don't feel Sometimes you wonder God, are You? He's always there. You remember that verse? &quot;I will never leave you You cannot face any adversity, you follow Jesus listen to this, not &quot;may not,&quot; You cannot walk through as a child of God I will never leave you Period. Not except, if, what, no. A child of God is always in the presence of Almighty God who lives on the inside of us. What an awesome assurance. And then, the last thing this adversity can be And that's the way He intends A precious gift from God. Anything that turns me Anything that takes my hands Anything that guides my step Anything that changes my mind and thinking about God So, if you'll remember that puts a whole different tone Does it make it less painful? Not necessarily. But there's some-- what do you need? Companionship. You have it in the person So, whatever you're going It's like sometimes I think, so hold my hand, Lord. Here we go. And so, when we are willing by trusting Him, He will see us and we'll profit from it. That is if you're a believer. I trust if you've never trusted you will be wise enough to ask to forgive you of your sins, but because He loved you to the cross and what that's the Son of God shedding His blood which was the mine, and the sins And if you're willing to ask Him of Christ's death, on the basis all these pages of the Word of He'll give you Begin to live His life in you can think the way He thinks is This is the way God thinks. And I would just encourage you as your Savior, listen, There is no way to live and have any peace, or joy, or happiness that's prolonged, It doesn't mean you'll not But the peace that and the joy that it begins with Jesus, and it ends with Jesus, and without Him And, Father, we thank You for the awesome assurance And thank You for all the years and over, and over again I pray that You'll speak who desperately needs speak to their heart, to make that decision today. In Jesus's name. Amen.