This is the Puente Hills Landfill outside of trash was dumped here in 1957, and the trucks if you threw something away in LA County, there's mountain of waste. At its peak, Puente Hills was year, making it one of the largest landfills in capsule of everyday life and consumption patterns a time capsule of landfill engineering itself. sweeping federal regulations changed You probably don't think too much about where point of the solid waste industry: to make sure without it having a serious negative consequence larger conversation to be had about the amount recycled or reused, but there is always going to be kept. Trash is an inescapable element of to be surprised how complicated that really is. was pretty much just a hole in the ground where were highly engineered holes where trash gets in the garage to show you how it all works. There are lots of kinds of waste in this crazy you and me throwing stuff in the trash. The since its collection is usually coordinated to manage it once collected, but the most one of the biggest parts of landfill put one in the first place. The main goal of that can be stored there while minimizing which turns choosing a suitable Digging a hole sounds like an obvious choice, and not digging a hole is free. There are costs it out of the way so it can be replaced with (since your goal is to maximize the volume on the any unsuitable geology, and the challenges of earth. That's why most landfills mostly build up space." Looking upward, it may seem like the sky anything, let alone trash, knows better. The waste requiring shallower slopes. And the pressures settlement and damage of facilities. Plus, there the bigger the eyesore, and people are They can't be too close to airports, because planes. And they can't be too close to homes, congregate for obvious reasons. Of course, avoid as well. And you don't just need a place to weigh the trucks coming in and out, a shop and for ordinary citizens to drop stuff off. Finally, in truck traffic coming and going, practically degree in it, it's going to come into play when archaeology, public relations, biology, But once you have your landfill, you can't Let me show you why with a demonstration. And I have some help from my shop assistants. I have my hole dug, and we'll start adding some trash. So far, no major problems. immediately see the issue. Granted, this is more across. All that water is going to filter through eventually, into the underlying soil. It might go We really don't want garbage juice percolating sources of groundwater, but also because it can causing all sorts of environmental troubles. keep waste separate from the underlying soils. carefully tested and welded together into an plastic welds is tested using air pressure to make clay soil compacted to create a watertight layer. so you end up with this intricate structure of Maybe you still see a problem with this the landfill just fills up with water. This causes garbage to decompose more quickly, leading to odor work on top. There's no way for trucks to unload way to get the garbage juice out, without letting juice isn't a technical term. It's actually out. And all modern landfills have sophisticated dry as possible and avoid the issues I mentioned. pipes covered in a layer of sand, draining to I built a little leachate collection system so you can see this in action. Now my clay bathtub has a drain. When the rain comes, the water that makes its landfill, keeping it from becoming a swampy a real landfill. I've made a video all about a leachate collection system consists of if in my example, the leachate system which can be a potential source of leaks. carefully in the real world, or the collection the slope of the landfill to the top, Of course, now you have a stream of leachate management is one of the biggest costs of running Some landfills send it off to a treatment plant that can clean it up. Some evaporation, biological treatment, and even leachate into waste that's easier to dispose Finally, the bottom of our landfill has all stop there. Remember that volume is everything in a location and building the infrastructure, it's possible. You probably know this, but municipal to smash a few more bags in the can because you know there's usually a lot of room for usually have a way to compact it to make more But once the trash is at the landfill, there's often use massive roller compactors with and compress waste and get as much as possible stewardship of the space. But density isn't Despite what you've heard, landfills are point is to accept the stuff we don't want to place creates a lot of problems: pests, and more. So to mitigate some of that, most at the end of every day. This "daily cover" The basic approach is just to put a layer of soil over the top When I do this in my model, you get a sense of All that clean daily cover is taking up precious space it back off each morning before trucks start moving tons and tons of soil around each day. or just holding back certain types of waste paper, and shredded tires. They're going in to cover the more disagreeable stuff overnight. getting perched within the waste, encouraging it Ideally, a landfill will last for decades, as possible. Throughout the course of operating a surface water, leachate, air quality and more Landfills are usually built in smaller cells waste all at once. A cell fills up, you put and start a new one within the landfill. But and the landfill reaches the end of its useful Of course, you have to cover all that waste garbage. That final cover has to keep water having to collect and treat over time. and not just the garbage itself, but anything and pests. And it has to do it basically forever. over a landfill is usually a system of multiple and fabrics. And then you have to get the grass to over time. I don't have time to wait for grass But the fun isn't quite over yet. The waste may In fact, there's a lot of chemistry and biology reactions generate gases like methane and hydrogen greenhouse effects in the atmosphere, and the in landfill closure is to install wells that these consist of vertical pipes connected to a point. There's a lot that goes into these might draw oxygen into the landfill, changing and creating a potential for a fire within the so managing condensation creates another and treated. Once it's collected, combusting it into less environmentally to put it to beneficial use to create heat or I showed earlier has a gas-to-energy facility the landfill is now closed, it currently provides Once a landfill is closed, there's not a lot you mountain of trash, after all. Owners are generally at least 30 years afterwards, inspecting and repairing any damage. Those costs have since there's not a lot of benefit (or revenue) carefully-maintained landscaping, one option that And I love this idea. They say, "We're willing the public to spend time here, to enjoy this least enjoyable places you can imagine." Puente trails on the slopes, biking, slides, gardens place to visit when it's done. And it also puts Of course, we have a lot of room for manage solid waste in this world. Landfills properly designed ones play a huge role in making air or water. It's not possible to landfill waste or just don't have enough space. But where they small. Just consider the resources that go probably a little on the low end of the national quarter of a cubic meter) of space in a municipal can every week, and that trash gets compacted. bucks a month has paid for the volume of a modest lining and collection systems, the environmental the gas collection, and the maintenance for trash to stay there effectively forever. It's to live there. But my point is: landfills are waste in a lot of cases. I hope the future is its beneficial value forever, but for now, I am professions involved in safely and economically I could spend hours talking about the engineering practical challenges that you just really don't of a small club of people who work on them and and I have to assume you probably do too, video series that I think you'll find really produced by my friend Sam from the Wendover a peek behind the curtain of stuff that we kind is so good. It covers all the things I would surface and underground methods, processing, in the industry. The graphics they use remind me of the old History and Discovery Network shows I used to love. And if you want to You've probably heard of Nebula. It's a streaming don't know about you, but that's most of authenticity and thoughtfulness of videos and ten levels of studio executives. Someone trains. And I like that comparison, Nebula's totally ad-free, with tons original series and specials like the especially because a yearly membership My videos go live on Nebula before they come out creators are the future of great video, I go.nebula.tv/Practical-Engineering. Thank you