Thank you to Anydesk for supporting PBS Imagine a world where humanity masters it--our first step on the famous Kardeshev distant is that step? Will we even become a true In 1964 Soviet physicist Nikolai Kardashev advancement of a civilization. The Kardashev scale advanced civilization might be capable of. It's I Civilisation controlling access to all available an entire star's energy output, and a Type 3 note: Kardashev originally came up with this scale civilizations, because the distance over which an much energy is pumped into that transmission. the whole idea of the Kardashev scale really science fiction-ists. Exponential advancement on a differences between between civilizations born at 2 and 3 civilizations--mastery of one or many stars talking Dyson spheres, black hole engines, the fabric of space for fun. By comparison, started. Maybe it's traveled to the nearest star Humans would be Type 0. Maybe 0.5 at best. But if roaming the galaxy, mastering the and finally making contact with the aliens who preschool... we need to start somewhere. And that it going to take for us to get there. super-civilization than energy geopolitical stuff that I'm neither qualified nor today we're going to stick to Kardeshev's attain the defining energy resources of a Type I. humanity is close to the technological level of capacity at roughly the current level. But he was to think of Type I as already having access to of 10,000 times higher than what we currently use. does it take to master planet-scale energy. much energy can we access from the safety of so we're just going to consider renewable all of the energy locked up in Earth's material like uranium in a couple of days. a lot of energy, but the amount is piddling hits the Earth. And that makes sense--ultimately, or biosphere comes from the Sun. So we actually of a Type-1 civilization--it's the amount of solar directly collecting solar energy may also be the Type-1 will be our first consideration. There is even more energy, but I'll come back to that. 1361 W/m^2, and our planet intercepts that giving us an upper limit of 1.7x10^17 Watts to perspective, we currently use around 10^13 watts Collecting anywhere close to 10^17 Watts in solar the planet in modern solar panels--not that we'd upgrading our Kardeshev scale is improving our by learning a bit more about solar cells. made from silicon and are an application of To summarize, you have two layers of silicon, One of these doped elements grants an extra senmiconductor and on its own those free electrons doped element subtracts one electron, creating And those holes can also flow as a current. the free electrons diffuse from p-type to at which point the system is non-conducting. But back across the p-n junction and are able to flow This is exactly how transistors work, small electric potential. In solar cells, in a process called photoexcitation. In a those electrons to return to the n-type layer But there's a fundamental limit to how much This is called the Shockley-Queisser into determining this limit, but for now let's The energy required to move an electron typically the energy of a near-infrared which means most infrared, do nothing visible and ultraviolet light--will excite their The photons in sunlight come with a very broad with an efficiency limit of around 50%. Other limit--down to around 30%. In practice we've only this is for traditional solar cells with materials offer the potential to exceed this tuned to different energy photons can capture Certain special materials like perovskites have exciting possibility are quantum dots thanks to advances in materials science and nano-fabrication Even more important than conversion efficiency power has a major energetic advantages. but in space those UV photons increase the factor of 10. Also there's no night-time in space, it's nice that we don't have to cover Earth in our AI overlords to inhabit our Type I world. getting the energy back to Earth. The most viable GHz photons pass easily through our atmosphere. antennae - called rectennas -- which would Or maybe we finally build that space elevator So we're really looking at swarms of solar arrays at Earth's Lagrange points. With the James Webb able to send large, fragile things into space. To array quite a bit larger than the flattened disk which will never be zero. That's more than a solar collectors, and if we scale down our silicon still a few trillion kilograms, not including the second most abundant element on Earth after Add a bit of asteroid mining for the supporting And of course this will put our new Type I building arrays until we wreath the entire Solar is the most obvious path to Type-I-dom, Sun generates energy through nuclear fusion--by and converting a small fraction of the content to soak up the energy that why not build our own mini-Suns on Earth? In the Sun, particles are smashed heavier nuclei in a series of reactions known protons--hydrogen nuclei--and ends in Helium-4 particular step of that chain, when two types together to form helium 4. About 0.4 of is converted into energy, mostly in the That doesn't sound very efficient, but remember, and the c2 does some heavy lifting here. as much energy as Uranium fission gram for goal of 10^17 Watts we'd need to convert into helium per second. Fortunately we have a the tritium. Earth's oceans contain around one eighth of which is hydrogen by mass, and 0.016 burned the oceans deuterium, we'd be able to power before running out. And if we can't make it to Having the fuel for fusion is one thing, but we we have that? Commercial fusion is famously 50 there are major programs to bring this use powerful magnetic fields to trying to duplicate the crushing effect of Perhaps the most famous is the International a type of reactor called a Tokomak. There are and also non-magnetic and non-confinement options, confinement seems most promising for commercial There are still many challenges to overcome commercially viable--from dealing the the plasma from the extreme-energy neutrons produced in out that you put in to get the reaction started scale. Larger reactors should have an easier time with its proposed 500 MegaWatt output sustain the reaction. This is scheduled OK, back to the question. Assuming we get fusion our aspiring Type-I status? Let's say we build output to be convertible to electricity--those we'd need 100,000 reactors to power our utterly preposterous. If we double efficiency and reactors scattered across the globe will provide But with great power comes great need for That means the development of a planetary-scale cables across the planet, we're going of high temperature superconducting cables. copper oxide can distribute our new extreme thanks to their zero resistance Challenges here include the fact that even be cooled quite a bit, which means both part we seem to have sorted, and we're going typical brittleness of superconductors. This so we can hope it's sorted by the time we need it. OK, so we have a couple of paths to have a completely ridiculous amount of energy, trouble anyway? Honestly, maybe we didn't in modest harmony with our planet and Maybe it's juvenile to obsess over some made But seeing as we got this far, and we we may as well do something with it. Part of not just harness the energy on Earth, but to have access to energy on the same scale as the change them for the better. So I guess we start and all that, now that we actually plan They say if you have a hammer, every problem is there is, and it's the ultimate currency energy can enable colossal scales of resource desalination and farming to asteroid mining, for all peoples. We could turn the Earth into a world conflicts, which energy can't do directly Energy is information and power is computation. solutions to all technological challenges and brute force processing and unthinkably capable power the terraforming of other worlds, creating will claw its way towards the next levels of energy mining Kardeshev-coin and training our Earth will be on track to spawning soon mastering the energy of an entire we look back at Nicholai Kardeshev's little paper and that we've announced our presence to new Thank you to Anydesk for supporting PBS. the most remote corners of the world. And whether home, the need for reliable, secure communication file transfer functionality allows for bypassing the cloud entirely. With coverage all with over 99% uptime. And when you're you don't want any distractions. Thankfully simple user experience as well as compatibility So even if your astronomical data Anydesk still has you covered with available for personal use, but if your rese Anydesk offers custom-tailored business go to anydesk.com/spacetime or check Hey, Everyone! You know how black holes pull And you know how the upcoming holiday season often like to welcome you to our first ever Black Hole only the entire Merch store catalog will be on new merch such as the first ever Multifunctional in inches, centimeters, and millimeters, a stylus sonic screwdriver yet. Stand by for the full-tech we have our first ever collection of Space Time equations for your theory of quantum gravity. We when you're working on your theories late into the computer stylish while your run your simulations, those simulations to render, our first ever Poster from, and a Penrose Diagram Black Hole Rocks to celebrate of your successful theory. Can we formulate a Nobel Prize winning physics theory? every t-shirt, hoodie, patch, pin we've sold this Merch store. We can also let you know about this you could theoretically wear to holiday events prize. And speaking of the non-Americans, if November 29th will be that last date we can 25th. So if you need a gift for any special person to PBSspacetime.com/shop on November 29th