Hey everyone, so you may remember my relatively antics in the realm of origin of life research. Well as I briefly touched upon in that content, called the Discovery Institute, an evangelical in creationist circles. While they promote themselves as a think tank DI is nothing more than an effort to push to be taught in schools alongside evolutionary Since this can't be validated as real science, their strategy is to try to invalidate the will convince people to adopt their alternative worldview that has been rendered obsolete. Of course, science does not work this way, to be occupied by whatever shouts the loudest; theories, with greater explanatory power, of science. Moreover, far from actually highlighting any biology, the DI merely presents lies and propaganda. A thorough analysis of this propaganda is of this series. In order to do this, I will be targeting their through their claims, and highlighting their The subject of this video will be a fellow around a specific claim he made in a recent Now for those of you who are already fuming the comments, I would advise you to muster It is my intention to get through to some accept it or not, these criticisms are well-deserved. James brought it upon himself with his toxic Casey has as well, due to the utterly transparent Let's get started. So the DI video in question is "Human Evolution: "Science Uprising". Here's a taste. Modified monkeys? Is that what we are? Or is it just a mask some scientists want Materialists seem intent on proving we evolved But is this really objective science? Let's take a look at the evidence. The joke here is not so much that they are moreso that they are pushing a narrative that the agents in the matrix, and this ragtag system by speaking truth to power. That's why the narrator is wearing a mask meant to convey the sentiment that real science The video is even edited with adorable little So what is the main thesis of the video? Well like any other creationist propaganda, science which discredits the archaic notion as we are, rather than having evolved over the viewer into rejecting science. In this case that would be the overwhelming sapiens from other hominid species. This is something that is well understood biologist in the world, and is not controversial poking holes in this rock solid science is Doing the honors here is Casey Luskin, the and culture at the DI. What's his background, you ask? Dr. Casey Luskin, co-author of science and Ah, he wrote a book. They don't let just anyone write a book Oh and he has a PhD! In... geology. Which has nothing to do with evolutionary totally irrelevant to this topic. In searching for published research, I find author, about cratons, which is geology, and of blog posts about anything without having Ok, let's hear what some guy who knows nothing The fossil evidence for human evolution is I would say that the case for human evolution ideology than it is actual hard evidence. So right from the get go we are establishing Human evolution is based on mountains of evidence, ideology. That's why he has to drag science down to Just to quickly elucidate this tactic before as a dirty word because the targets of their concept, so they complain that any philosophy the soul is evil. Well science is the study of the physical Science is materialism. Anyone who says otherwise does not know what The DI folks back themselves into a corner literally all of science. The reason evolution is science and intelligent Evolutionary biology predicted that the human time from a basal hominid form. It's a prediction about what we should find or astronomy, or any other field. It's how science works. And when we investigated, we did indeed find The anatomically modern human morphology emerges two dozen species and thousands of individual with chimpanzees. These species that act as "missing links" show incontrovertibly the evolutionary history Miocene apes. Given how many hominin species are known and the entire field of biological anthropology The illustrations and drawings of these missing To the creationist, there can only be what There are apes and there are humans, and nothing Of course, the word "apes" simply means a bit like saying that there are only canines It doesn't actually make sense. But of course what they mean is that humans as we are, and that there are no transitional Therefore, anything science labels a transitional hominin or a "just an ape" hominin. So Homo erectus was "fully human". Australopithecus afarensis was "just apes", They must pretend that all of these fossils science very clearly says otherwise. Rather humorously, they can't even agree species get labeled as apes by one creationist as humans by another, like the DI. But beyond this confusion, they also just Quite a few paleoanthropologists think that been discovered with signs of high intelligence, So although many artist impressions will depict were to walk in the door right now, you would from a modern human being. Well yeah, Homo neanderthalensis lived concurrently them. In fact it wasn't until we left Africa that out-competed them or killed them. Luskin is pretending that science proposes It doesn't. But let's get to the main act. The primary target of the video is Lucy, the of Australopithecus afarensis, one of many The DI needs to convince the viewer that it The centerpiece of this campaign is a PBS of Human Origins". Featured within is an anthropologist named Let's check out a bold accusation made by This PBS documentary shows Anthropologist Lucy walk upright. The perfect fit was an illusion that made chimp's. But all was not lost. As a result, the angle of the hip looks nothing So we can see them showing Dr. Lovejoy using to be the actual pelvis bone of Lucy, with as to the dishonesty. They are making it appear as though the hip it to seem like that of a human. You know, like a fraud? Luskin reiterates this accusation himself. And so Lucy's pelvis had to be reconstructed and imagination. Clear as day. Big fat fraud. Now let's look at some parts of the documentary narrated by Donald Johanson who discovered As Lovejoy pointed out, the joint had all on two legs, not on all fours. Walking upright is something that only humans And it needs a special kind of knee joint, A chimp gets around on all fours. If it tries to walk upright, its knee joint It's forced to walk with a bent leg and So we are establishing that a lockable knee Lucy and similar organisms all had, and modern The DI avoids even mentioning knee joints Now for the more important bit. Here was a skeleton of a creature that looked ape-like features. The ape that stood up, it was a revolutionary We needed Owen Lovejoy's expertise again, up. The knee looked human, but the shape of her Superficially, her hip resembled a chimpanzee's, have walked like a modern human. But Lovejoy noticed something odd about the When I put the two parts of the pelvis together so hard and so completely into this one, that individual pieces, which were then fused together After Lucy died, some of her bones lying in perhaps by animals browsing at the lake shore. This has caused the two bones in fact to fit impossible position. If this is not clear, what they are saying and fused into an unnatural geometry that not reflective of Lucy's true anatomy. Let's see what they decided to do about The perfect fit was an illusion that made a chimp's. But all was not lost. Lovejoy decided he could restore the pelvis He didn't want to tamper with the original, He cut the damaged pieces out and put them died. It was a tricky job, but after taking the perfectly, like a three-dimensional jigsaw As a result, the angle of the hip looks nothing Anatomically at least, Lucy could stand like The case for our earliest ancestors walking And Lucy wasn't the only evidence. And there it is. Lovejoy was doing absolutely nothing whatsoever He made a copy in plaster in order to further due to the original sample having been shattered the hip matched the knee, both indicating In case you missed it, let's play those "Anthropologist Owen Lovejoy manipulating "He didn't want to tamper with the original, "He cut the damaged pieces out and put them died." There is no getting around this. Luskin and the DI lied, and they lied hard. They deliberately misrepresented the Nova They literally play the exact clip where the copy, and simply omit the audio, while accusing to deviously make a quadruped appear like To make it as clear as possible, just look Now let's restore what they cut out. As you can see, Lovejoy isn't the only one Again there is no mention from the DI of the that made Lovejoy suspicious of the pelvis upright and a pelvis for walking on all fours Luskin then omitted that Lovejoy noticed the pieces, which were then fused together in He deliberately left out these crucial details and why, and in this way, Luskin and the DI This is a criminal offense worthy of a lawsuit. There is no denying this. You don't have to understand an ounce of It is clear as day that this is textbook manipulation. The DI knows that nobody watching their video googleable transcript to get more context They know that any creationist watching will But anyone with a shred of honesty can now It is a premeditated lie. Folks at the DI sat down and deliberated over cast doubt on empirical science substantiating on all fours and humans that walk upright. What does Dr. Lovejoy think of all this? Perhaps he has a comment? Indeed he does: in any film or video that I have ever seen. It's amazing but terribly disheartening groups dispensing such trash. Sincerely, Owen. Unfortunately the dishonesty doesn't end Luskin is hell-bent on misrepresenting not In the video, Luskin complains that Lucy's human-like in restorations. They did not even find feet associated with She's almost always depicted as an upright What he completely ignores are human-like were attributed to her taxon, the Australopithecines. He also ignores the foot material from STW-573, that is nearly a complete skeleton. This specimen is colloquially known as "Little as Lucy, or AL-288-1. Are you curious what these numbers are for? They are necessary because there are thousands in the genus, including four other species. Skulls, vertebrae, phalanges, long bones, Luskin complains about Lucy like it's the or profound ignorance. All of these Australopithecine specimens possess them efficient bipeds, but made it biomechanically The bowl-shaped pelvis and lockable knee we weight, an in-line big toe and three arches magnum, positioning the vertebral column directly The evidence is conclusive. But when you want to pretend no evidence exists the mountain of existing evidence, I suppose. Luskin then referred to a 2000 article in legs" by Collard and Aiello, which he claimed He said this: studied the hand bones of Lucy, and found As you can see, he said this while showing he highlighted as saying: "These features seemingly in line with their desire to portray Now, does this article say what he claims Not by a long shot. If you actually read the paper, which is only case that A. afarensis was a quadruped. These two paragraphs literally begin with A. afarensis has a combination of traits not They have human-like features, like the foot, to Miocene apes, like the fingers, arms, and Then it outlines the true discussion, as to retentions" from ancestral species, or whether and a mixed locomotor repertoire was utilized trees. It then goes on to specify that the study which is literally the precise opposite of It's funny, I'm not an anthropologist fine. Why do you think Luskin botched it so badly? Is he a complete moron or was he deliberately Hmm... Also, this article is referencing a study very same issue of this journal. Why did he not cite that one? He merely showcased text from a preliminary "news and views" that was introducing from a knuckle-walking ancestor". This paper is full of anatomical terminology but it clearly concludes that the knuckle-walking of the African ape and human clade. Since that sentence might not mean much to summarized by Henry Gee in his supplement he said: "Richmond and Strait have looked of the human family, Australopithecus anamensis the famous 'Lucy' skeleton, from Ethiopia, ... Both, for example, were bipeds--they not on their knuckles." It is also in agreement with Collard and Aiello of organisms that were common ancestors of Why didn't Luskin quote any of that? I think I know. What do we call this deceptive tactic? Dr. Richmond was asked if Luskin was correct in the journal Nature studied the hand bones of a knuckle-walker." He replied: mischaracterization of our scientific results. Lucy did not have the hands of an active knuckle-walker. Rather, there is evidence from her anatomy adaptations. If it isn't abundantly clear by now that know what else to tell you. And this is not an isolated occurrence. This is the modus operandi of the Discovery This is what they do. I pointed this out numerous times in my response With him, there was the blatant quote mine of Donna Blackmond, the faster-than-light-speed about Jack Szostak, just to name a few. Luskin uses precisely the same tactics. These charlatans have no ability to discredit worldview, so they have to lie about it. This is not mere stupidity. It is deliberate and malicious dishonesty. This is all you really need to know about He's a dime a dozen apologist preaching teeth, consistently and repeatedly. Again, anyone who merely cites his degree saying is a moron. A PhD in geology does not qualify one to talk geology. It is simply that creationist propaganda mills that they have to spread them paper thin, they have zero training in. So to anyone desperately playing the qualifications Casey and I are equally qualified in anthropology, The difference is that he lies about it, and People who actually care about degree status anthropologists with doctorates, actively agree on the descent of modern primates like If degrees matter, then those tens of thousands valuable than Casey's one degree in an unrelated What's that? Their degrees don't matter? Then guess what, neither does his, or any try to throw at you. You can't play it both ways. This imbalance in credibility is a huge problem on the entire scientific community in one And of course their angle is corruption. Casey himself complains on his website about This is totally idiotic. There is no censorship in science. Science is not dogma. Religion is dogma, so creationists have to the playing field. In reality, practically everyone in science That's how science works. Unlike ancient religious scripture, in science If you prove a pillar of science to be incorrect, This is what makes their script so ridiculous. There is no censorship of flat earthers in earth is not science. Intelligent design also is not science. It's religion trying to Trojan Horse its That's why real scientists reject it. Not because of some imaginary "materialist a synonym for doing science. These empty mischaracterizations are yet another Too much science proving you wrong? Do what James Tour does. Just call it "hype" and walk away. It's a tactic that allows them to dismiss anything whatsoever to address that science. Not surprisingly, Casey uses this word too. Now let's talk about some of these early on surrounding them. They can cast doubt with just one word, and it up. They might as well just point at a journal and watch their congregation nod their heads It gets more subtle than these overt accusations You have to look at the language they choose There is a reason they are constantly using First of all, evolutionism is not a real word. It was invented by creationist propagandists. It is an attempt to liken well-established system, by giving it the suffix "ism". Creationism, evolutionism, scientism, take A desperate attempt to claim equal footing. With the word "Darwinism" it's even The point of using this word is to pretend is nothing more than the utterances of a single man can somehow be discredited, 200 years head. This is insane. When Darwin was alive, humans were barely like DNA. Modern biology and genetics would be unrecognizable on his work in the slightest, but rather rests by hundreds of thousands of scientists all Darwin is just one of many great figures in its advancement, just as so many have since It is not "evolutionism". It is not "Darwinism". It is not religious scripture to be taken covertly upholds. It's called evolutionary biology, and it from countries all over the world, working religious faiths. Just not the science-denying kinds. It's simply that the science deniers in deniers. That's why they need that buzzword, "materialism". Science does not need humans to share a common Materialism does. We are not materialists. We see the human soul. We experience love. We live with purpose. We fight for justice. We are the quiet majority and we will be quiet Well all kinds of animals exhibit love and justice systems by which peers can be praised, this script is stupid. Vervet monkeys punish liars who sound the referred to by some as "proto-morality". Chimpanzees comfort and console one another, They are political animals who, like humans, alliances, and carry out revenge. Of course, with animals they say these behaviors humans can't exhibit this same behavior Why all this focus on souls? Well, it's the easiest way to manipulate the oldest fear in the book. Remind people that they're afraid to die, can get them to do whatever you want. This entire narrative is brainwashing 101. All the hallmarks are there. Even the pageantry of pretending that they brainwashing. Look at them project their dumb video onto the masses to wake up from their programming. From ape to man. Modified monkeys? If you haven't seen any content made by The DI might as well be telling us about lizard But that's kind of the point of the DI, idiotic, and anti-science as flat earth, but science. So what's the real agenda? Why spend all this time and money just to Easy. Control. Being down with Jesus is the number one right their own best interests. Don't like pesky science ruining your corporate No problem. Convince the people that science is evil. Science is trying to persecute you. Science says you're just a dirty, pointless Don't listen to them, listen to us and you'll We've got your back, we're team Jesus. So what's the best way to feed people this Ya gotta get 'em while they're young. I think that students should learn about the It should be taught. However it should be taught objectively, where it, and also the evidence challenging it, the evidence, think critically... That's right. The old "I want religion taught in science It's astounding that we still aren't past Sadly the assault is happening in the scientific The DI has a tight connection with a journal of Science". On its About page it admits to not being peer-reviewed, or religious agenda. Of course, if you have to say it... This journal was started in part by David is also seen in this Luskin video complaining Here, you can see his name on the DI website The DI has been given full access to this of intelligent design rubbish peppered around Some scientists don't seem to be aware of to publish their research in this journal exploits to give false legitimacy to their Fun fact: James Tour puts his Inference articles lying the whole time, in his list of publications It would seem like Mr. "700 Papers" is Funny how this also makes it appear as though it? If you think this religious assault on science bigger picture. It represents a concerted effort to drag the the theocracies of Europe that existed until A reunification of church and state, and re-establishment ability to persecute "non-believers", This is not just the plot of "The Handmaid's This has happened in the real world recently, As a result of American imperialist foreign to a theocracy. Such a thing could happen anywhere. It can be a bit difficult to apply the appropriate of us can say absolutely anything with no we please. This was not the case for most of human history. Humans had long been subjected to extreme a unified religious and political institution. Christianity in particular has been a violent in the fourth century. It was imposed with blood onto people throughout Europeans in their colonization of Latin America. This is obviously not to say that all Christians But the coupling of religious institutions even one that preaches peace and love, into And by suggesting that religion be taught that door wide open. Our long fight to remove religion from the of the home is one of the greatest achievements To lose this is to lose our freedom. This freedom was not given to the masses willingly. It was only attained through violent uprisings. Anyone who tries to pull us back to those We may not have to cut off the heads of monarchs dire. But if we allow religion to become science, and from there it could be an avalanch. Countries like Iran serve to demonstrate that any religion can be a tool to impose or restore Anyway, that's the DI in a nutshell. In every video of theirs they parade the same themselves into propagating this trash, which or flat out misunderstanding real science. While there is undoubtedly a high degree of justified in their minds by the thought of like Luskin and Tour I have concluded that hubris, and narcissism as well. This manifests itself in the delusion that despite having no experience in it, and reject to their ideology, only to then display confusion them seriously. Protecting their egos from the realization ideological arguments, they cry censorship, is relegated to blog posts and YouTube, which They flash journal articles and pretend to misrepresenting them. They use misleading language. And they pay their team of editors to produce and sound more legitimate than it is. A well-polished turd, one must admit, but And what do we do with turds? We flush them. So that's a small window of insight into A fraud parading as a scientist, the costume Which one of these bozos will I expose next? You'll just have to wait and see. Until next time.