My mother introduced you. Yes I am very good to my wife. Don't worry, I have three wives. Your fourth marriage Sit, sit, sit Sit down What happened to the fourth marriage? My mom divorced 4 times. This is Balenciaga. You can't say that. The first three wives In fact, they were all killed by me. You are still angry What's wrong? Don't be afraid, girl. I've thought it through. Wait till we get married I'll give you Nike I'll give you another Buick As the saying goes No more than 3 I promise I won't kill you What do you require of your marriage partner? This wife Must be a virgin Then give me 5 sons Hey, I heard from your mom that you've never had a date, right? Then we are a perfect match. Sister, as long as you marry me, you will enjoy happiness This woman's mouth Deceiving ghost You believe what my mother said. Tell you the truth I am pregnant What? You're pregnant? What are you so excited about? Who is the child's father? The child's father It's him Want me to prove it to you? Sanmao's proof Uncle lend it to me You guys are really eye-catching. Kissing in public You are shameless nausea Thanks, uncle You are so nice See you soon The mouth is quite sweet The girl wants to run away after flirting Do you know who I am? Who are you? That Miss Lin I may not be able to come to the engagement party there. Look Cancel? No need, someone will deliver it to your door Uncle, what do you mean? My name is Lu Yanshi From now on, I'm your bestie The marriage was so easy. Mr. Lu is the dream of thousands of girls in our world. I don't know who is so lucky. I can get engaged to Mr. Lu Suitable for experiment That must be his childhood sweetheart. Tranquility too. Not an uncle Why is it so feudal? I kissed you You let me treat you badly It's not fair This engagement party is very important to me. Come Stop making trouble Well, then I won't The minute hand is not a joke It's not Lin Jing Who is she afraid of? This woman is so rustic. He is actually worthy of the distinguished Mr. Lu. Let me introduce to you This person next to me is my fiancee Hello everyone, my name is Shen Mu Well done Give you a reward thing Who can marry her? Bring it I said it's my only favorite Is this a show? Really? Just do it with your brain. Experiment The most powerful family in the world The only heir of the Lu family Not interested in women Cold-blooded Means Media The flame of this world Oh my god I've provoked someone I shouldn't have provoked. How can a country bumpkin dressed like a street vendor be engaged to Mr. Lu? I don't even look in the mirror. See if you have the qualifications. Only Miss Ning Jing is a white, rich and beautiful woman Only worthy of Mr. Lu What is suitable or not You should mate boars with pigs How dare you call Mr. Lu a pig? Lu Shiyan Some people say you are a pig Bitch you bitch You dare to hit Xiao Xiao Hey wait Are you crazy? Do you know who we are? I don't care who you are But you have something to say A country bumpkin like me No higher education It's very vulgar to do things So I advise you not to mess with the little bitch I am Are you okay? Your fiancee bullied us on the way You have to make the decision for us. Yes, I forgot to remind you. My fiancee has a bad temper. You should hide away when you see me next time. It's alright I'm already engaged. Are you still unwilling to have surgery? The old lady said Engagement is not enough You have to get married ok i got it Prepare a gift of 30 million yuan How many batches can I go to Shen's house to order? If you like it, buy it hahaha Thank you, Dad. As expected, every stepmother has a stepfather. I am the only one in this company Chenmu stop Come down to me What's up You stinky girl What are you doing? Why do you hit me? Why Your mother worked so hard to choose a good marriage for you You messed it up like this. You don't know it's wrong yet A good marriage after careful selection, yes Shen Mo, are you crazy? How dare you hit my mother? Hey you stinky girl Shen Jianguo, if you hit me, I will agree Your favorite, try moving again Shen Mu, you are just a white-eyed wolf Mom and dad are worried about you Since you dare to repay kindness with hatred, I will repay kindness with hatred Chen Meng, listen carefully Everything your mother found for me was good. My mother divorced four times. The first three Wangs were actually killed by me. Wait till we get married I'll give you Nike I'll give you another Buick As the saying goes Three times the limit I promise to kill you Balenciaga carved wedding greasy man Shen Mo This blessing is given to you. Do you want it? I guess the matchmaker made a mistake. Shen Mo, don't be too picky. This good man will only marry a lady like Mengmeng You said you are like this? Who dares to marry? The Lu family came to propose marriage I have never seen such a luxurious betrothal gift in my life. This Lu family is the most wealthy family in Beijing. Three days later Our CEO will personally go to the Shen family to propose marriage I hope everyone in the Shen family is ready. Okay, we must be prepared. Please tell Mr. Lu Be sure to marry the bride Did you say you were attached to me? After get off work, tell Mr. Lu We will definitely be well prepared. Oh, dream When did you meet President Lu? The betrothal gifts have arrived. You are still so low-key Didn't even tell my family. President of Lu I went to Lushi Group to shoot an advertisement last month I did see him once. I didn't expect that he fell in love with me at first sight. why are you laughing how Are you jealous that I'm about to marry into a wealthy family? Shen Mo Your sister has been better than you since she was young. Soon she will marry into the most wealthy family in the world That's her life And you Just be content if you can marry a wage earner in this life. That's his temper Even if he wants to marry a wage earner I don't need you as a wage earner either. I won't bother you with my marriage. Congratulations, Chen Meng Three days later? You're about to move into a wealthy family. By then All the relatives of our Shen family must know You married a rich man. Give your mother and our Shen family a good reputation right Hurry up and contact all the relatives of the Shen family tell them the good news Haha good I'll get ready right now Chen Mu, just wait and cry with envy. Well, what will happen then? Boss, look at it Miss Lin's plane arrives tonight This marriage thing Can you slow down a little bit? What does her coming back have to do with my conclusion? no After all, you two are childhood sweethearts. Then there is a marriage contract, right? She was the one who broke the contract first So the engagement is annulled. Let's go Yo So many people It seems that all that should come Hey, Momo Lu Group is a business giant If you marry Mr. Lu That means becoming a queen. yes It's not up to us, Mengmeng, to have the final say in this life and the future. Ever since I was little, I have been optimistic about Mengmeng. Beautiful and virtuous I was born to marry a wealthy family. How does it look like that fallen wood? That wild girl No one will marry you. Hey, don't say that. My sister will feel ashamed. Hey sister All the relatives of the family are here today Why don't you take this opportunity Let me introduce you to someone. You haven't married yet. Why are you in such a hurry to marry me off? How did Shen Mo speak? The Lu family's convoy is already on the way Your sister will soon become a Lu This is a noble status. Listen carefully, speak politely to your sister. Otherwise, you will suffer the consequences. OK, I know. Please tag him Boss, our company has been hacked again. You said our company is getting more and more awesome now. Why are there so many enemies? I asked you to find the top hacker stars and their information? Are they helping me now? It's too weird without him. The people I sent out couldn't even find out whether he was a man or a woman. Then keep checking. Only incompetent people want to marry into a wealthy family A capable self I think you are just saying the grapes are sour because you can't eat them. What can you do as a computer repairman? I repair computers How come I can repair computers? That depends on my skills. How can you be a betrayer? You Kirin Forget it. What a happy day Dad, look at him Dead wood If you weren't so arrogant, the Lu family would be here soon Afraid of jokes Otherwise I will beat you to death today Then try to kill one of you Oh, let me see this It's just that Chen Mu is jealous that his grandma married into a wealthy family. Even my sister is jealous You are too small-minded. Chenmu, our Wang Er family A while ago My wife just died If you want to get married I can introduce you to each other How is it? Where are we? There is also a person To be honest and not much Don't like to go out yet Chen Mu, if you get married, Keep and enjoy You said it was a vegetative state? You two really think about me Which pot goes with which lid? It's enough for you to match him like this Do you also know which pot goes with which lid? Hey Chen Meng Why don't you have self-awareness? What do you mean today? Oh, it doesn't make any sense. What about me today? I want to see it here How did the young master of the Lu family marry you? Nana Ah, mom, can't care about him Look at him Don't worry, he's injured and will come soon. You should open your eyes and take a closer look After all, you I've never had this blessing in my life. This is it Hey, hurry up Mr. Lu is here Get ready, everybody. Let Mr. Lu marry the bride Mr. Lu is already here Graphite is speechless now. So what? It's a talent to be able to marry her Will Shen Mo, this crazy girl, cause trouble? Someone, lock up Shen Mo for me. She will never be allowed to talk nonsense in front of Mr. Lu. Release Shen Jianguo Aren't you afraid of retribution? I am your daughter too Shut my mouth for a moment. What what Don't think of harming my daughter. Lifetime Events Let me go Take me away Hmmmm My boyfriend is really coming to marry me Just like pearls So handsome, he is worthy of being the dream of thousands of girls in this world It's just perfect. He's just too handsome, so tall. Little girl The auspicious time has arrived on the road Take the bride away! Yes, yes, yes, take the bride away quickly Don't miss the auspicious time, hahaha On the road let's go The person I want to marry is not you Have we come to the wrong place? It's impossible This is where the betrothal gift was sent last time. Mr. Lu, what is your bride's name? The person I want to marry is called Shen Mu What's going on? How to marry Chen Mu That's right, this heavy wood looks like him are you sure I'm sure omg How could this happen? Shen Mu, that dead girl When did he commit such a big conspiracy as Mr. Lu? Mr. Lu Chenmu What kind of heavy wood is he? There is no name like Chen Mu in our house on the road. When the assistant comes to hire The name Chenmu has never been mentioned. So our family all thought The one you want to marry is my daughter Shen Mu But the information I checked is We must never let that dead girl Shen Mu marry Lu Shiye Otherwise he will definitely take revenge on me Sir, you must have remembered it wrong. If Shen Mu is the daughter of our Shen family, Then we are definitely willing to let her marry Our Shen family will benefit from Mr. Lu, hehe. Yes, yes, there must be a mistake. Um It seems we made a mistake let's go I never thought that the person Lu Shang wanted to marry was Shen Mo What is the Lu family's vision? I actually fell in love with that wild girl I heard he is lazy and good at eating. Nothing No wonder the Shen family didn't dare to marry Shen Mo to them If I marry her, I'll get into trouble. Then the Lu family hasn't caused trouble to the Shen family yet? What should mom do now? We used to bully Shen Mu He will definitely take revenge on us in the future Don't worry Mr. Lu has left As long as we marry Shen Mu out immediately Do you think Mr. Lu will still want him? This is a good idea Sorry, boss. I will definitely find Miss Shenmu I I I I I I Even if I become a ghost, I will find her. Someone told Sister Xinjun this before. In the end, there was not even a shadow. Hello What's good The good news The Xindi you've been thinking about has Where are you now Shen Jia Hey haha Why is Mr. Lu back again? And he brought so many people with him What do you want to do? I'm looking for someone The boss found Hey, Master Gao Lord Gao, please get out of the way. Otherwise, you will bear the consequences Quick Mr. Gu, you can't come in. roll Hey Gu Chao Gu Chao Gu Chao ah Uncle, why is it you? Girl, could he be The boss's position suddenly disappeared Our people said it might be a system error. What a waste Eat it What is going on? The uncle asked you why you were mute. I said I was right. You haven't fixed it in the wrong place, right? What kind of civet cat trick is Prince Wan? Isn't that right for Madam? Mr. Lu, please listen to my explanation. This girl Chen Mu Crazy She is not suitable to be your wife at all We don't let her get married because of your consideration. Hahahaha Mr. Lu My son Mumu has been very outstanding since he was young. She didn't touch your feet at all, you cried like crazy Do you want to be my master? No no no no don't dare ah Uncle what are you up to The auspicious time has arrived Naturally, I will marry a new Shen Mo, you bitch You made me a laughing stock of the whole family. I will never let you go Dress him up nicely. That uncle Would you like to reconsider? I think You can find a better bride than me I forgot and really got myself into it. That uncle Should we discuss our marriage again? What to consider Do you think you can find someone richer than me? Better than me Marry a man who is more handsome than me? How come he's handsome again? Not an uncle There is no emotional foundation between the two of us. Yeah Is this your foundation? If it's not enough I can Like this So it's because I kissed him first You have to marry him. Be responsible for him God How can there still be such feudal people in the 21st century? Um That uncle he he What do you want to do? What do you think I do? What do you not want to do? So what are you doing so close to me? I'm not interested in bean sprouts What Bean sprouts A gentleman can be killed but not humiliated It's 10 o'clock How can you turn a fake into a real one? But Mr. Lu is so handsome I don't suffer either. What country bumpkin is worthy of marrying my brother? This is Lu Yingying, the second daughter of the Lu family. As expected, he is as cunning and domineering as the outside world says. Look at the time. Just got up now Do you understand the rules of my Lu family? Rules what rules Based on your origin You are not even qualified to be a servant in my Lu family. But for my brother's sake From now on, you will be responsible for cooking and cleaning at home. Things are ready for you. Go clean the toilet now. I will marry into your Lu family. I am here to be Lu Yanshi's wife. Not for you to be a servant. You are useless She married my brother because of trickery. Why be a rich wife? And if you don't follow the rules of my Lu family My Lu family can't tolerate you. Oh, can you accommodate me? It's not up to you to decide Road tests have not started yet. As for you? Don't you Shen Mo Don't you see where our Lu family is? How dare you talk to me like that? It seems that as a sister-in-law I'm going to teach you a lesson today. ah Shen Mo, you are crazy How dare you do this to me? I, this is called giving someone a taste of their own medicine. Treat me like this My brother won't let you go. Let your brother come stop My brother has someone he likes. He doesn't like you at all The person my brother likes is Sister Lin Jing He is the one I want to marry. If I wasn't too lazy to get my brother married He's willing to have surgery. My brother will definitely wait for Sister Lin Jing to return home How can I give you a chance? Why is uncle so feudal? I kissed you You let me treat you badly It's so fair This engagement party is very important to me. Come Don't make a fuss, it turns out that the uncle was forced to get married No wonder you're panting so hard Shen Mo, you can go outside now. My brother is with Sister Lin Jing now Sister Lin Jing is more than a hundred times better than you Now Sister Lin Jing has returned to China You are a worthless substitute. Sooner or later, you will be kicked out of the Lu family Do you think I want to stay in your Lu family? What are you doing here? Shuying, I'm coming to see you. Wen Jing, what are you doing? I'm already married My wife might misunderstand you. You married him just for grandma, right? You don't love him at all Love or not is my own business I know you're still blaming me for coming back late But there's a reason why I didn't come back. It's because of this matter No more mentions allowed This country bumpkin How dare you snatch the experiment from me? Really inferiority complex Bro It didn't rain that day How did you throw away the drowned chicken? elder brother What made me like this? He's a bitch. You must decide for me How do you know him? I see he gets up late. I just said two words to him Who knew he would suddenly go crazy? Made me look like this Brother, divorce him immediately. Sister Lin Jing, please come in. Do you think marriage is a joke? In this case No more of that. And your sister-in-law has a bad temper. Pretend to be wronged in front of her in the future elder brother I want to be in front of Shen Mu, a lowly person Keep your tail between your legs The daughter of the Lu family Why? Hello Where have you been, girl? Your family can't accommodate me I'm running away Who said my Lu family can't accommodate you? Why didn't your sister tell you? I won't just take his word for it. You can also sue him. I'll do it for you. This is called a friend I am a person who never seeks revenge on the spot. I haven't told you yet Let's go to work. roll Check where the girl works. The boss's wife works here. In the Technology Department Is he a technician in the technical department? Yes In general, girls have very few technical skills. But it's probably not difficult for you to start a small company like this Who should I contact for cooperation? Contact As the president, I have been waiting for a long time. It is a disease Shen Mo, you are slacking off again during work time The company pays you to come here to have fun. You should be thankful for my slacking off. If I'm busy I'll beat you up for this company problem The company's system has always been stable You sit here and play every day Don't talk like you have some function. How come you know better than me? Stop giving me nonsense. Today, a big customer came to the company You are now delivering coffee to the client. Isn't it your job to serve tea? You are late today This is your punishment. Otherwise the bonus will be deducted Isn't it Song Kaiyou What's so great A person who came in from the backstage I can still get such a high salary without doing any work I'm taking this opportunity to kick you out of the company. Why is that Mr. Lu? Just the back view is so handsome Why would Mr. Lu come to a small temple like ours to discuss cooperation? Smoke is coming out of our boss's ancestral grave I don't know what type of girls Mr. Lu likes. Oh, stop daydreaming. A noble like Mr. Lu It is beyond the imagination of us ordinary people. Mr. Lu is not Lu Experiment Is this uncle chasing the company? What? You are from the technical department. Why are you here? I'm here to deliver coffee to the client. I think sending coffee is an excuse. Your goal is to get close to Mr. Lu, right? There are so many people in our secretarial department. When will it be your turn to repair the computer? Coffee is coming. Don't think you have a good appearance. Mr. Lu will take a fancy to you A lowly person like you I don't even have the qualifications to meet Mr. Lu. It's not that there's something wrong with you. I'll bring you a cup of coffee. Why is Tiger not a bloody novel again? Who are you scolding? Are you qualified to deliver coffee? You think I want to send it? Secretary Xu asked me to come. Don't use Secretary Xu as a shield. You think he will give you such a good opportunity? What if you don't believe it? You can ask Secretary Xu But the customer is in a hurry for coffee Can you be sure to stay with me? Secretary Xu is here What are you all standing for? Secretary Xu, what? He is involved in your position I'm going to give Mr. Lu a cup of coffee. He wants to hook up with Mr. Lu Now that you are here Let's explain What? You are a technical staff. Not staying at your post What else do you give me for coffee? What are you talking about? Shen Mo really lied Secretary Xu didn't ask you to deliver coffee. Shen Mo, you are so scheming. The biggest liar Secretary Xu, are you sure you are not telling the truth? Chenmu, are you threatening? How can I threaten you? I want you to tell the truth I'm telling the truth You spend all day doing nothing in the company Isn't it just to find a chance to be a sugar daddy? I have nothing to do If it weren't for me The company system crashed long ago Shen Mo, you are really good at bragging. You are not the only one in the company's technical department You just mess around It's a waste of money for the company to support you, etc. So you planned this just to fire me. What is design? It's obviously you who wanted to hook up His house is everywhere. ah Shen Mo is crazy I gave you a chance It's up to you whether you give or not Why are you still holding him up? Hey, hey, hey, what are you doing? Warning you guys Don't mess around. Don't mess around. No problem father Well Mr. Lu, please sign. Please sign. What's going on outside? It seems someone started a fight. A bunch of blind guys I'm going to go check it out. I'll go check it out first Did you ask me to deliver the coffee? What are you going to do? Have you signed the company? ah Mr. Liu They were all made by Shen Gong He beat us all He wants to rebel Why did he beat all of you by himself? he didn't do it you are so disgusting Will you bully your boss? This little girl is really a god I think this Chen Mu Ba Cheng has mad cow disease. People like this are a disaster to Liu Sen's company. Mr. Liu, Chenmu, do you have anything else to say? I have nothing to say This shabby temple of yours can't even accommodate a big Buddha like me. The old ladies are done. you You got fired. Listen up, sister-in-law. It seems that there is no need for my Lu Group to cooperate with Shengyu. no We are sincere in cooperating with our Lu family. Are you always injured? I am cruel Mr. Lu, you know him? Unknown Hey, Mr. Lu. Let's go to the contract The boss's meaning is clear. The cooperation was cancelled Oh, that's right. As for the reason Think about it yourself I said they knew each other. Look at the good things you have done Let me quit I'll let you know what layoffs are. Talented elder brother Why did you say you didn't know me? What is the problem? What do you think? I think there is no problem What's the hurry? The parking lot is not there yet. I don't go to the parking lot I won't go home with you Girl Hello Go inside I want to go home I don't care, I'll go home now Uncle, open the door. Are you calm? What does the uncle want to do? I should be asking you this. Not a word Are you planning to run away? You originally wanted to have the surgery because your grandmother didn't want to Just married me Now grandma's operation was successful. Then there is no need for me to stay in the Lu family We are husband and wife There are also real couples If you stay in the Lu family, of course you will continue to be the wife of the Lu family. What if you don't want to? Yingying is not good to you I can deduct her pocket money. Oh, it doesn't matter If you really don't want to I can let you go real But not now It takes time for grandma to recover. Wait until grandma recovers. Then you can leave after grandma recovers. Where is the boss going now? Let's find a restaurant to eat. Eat slowly, no one will snatch it from you. Don't I eat? I'm not hungry yet Why are you coming to eat here if you're not hungry? You are hungry Are you the worm in my stomach? You know this This is my card The password is your birthday. What are you doing Do you think you have to support me because I'm unemployed? I tell you I'm not that kind of person Besides, I don't lack money. I married Marry you home The husband spends money to earn money for his woman I thank you But what I lack now is not money It's a job The work is not easy Lu's Group has no shortage of technical talents You can report at any time Your Lu Group Technology It's so useful Don't worry, I I don't want to go to this department. You can go to other departments. You underestimate me, uncle. I don't I will go to the technical report of the room tomorrow After dinner, I'll take you to buy some clothes. Grandma is recuperating I can't let her think that I married you just to please her. Yes, uncle. Our store has just received a new model of washing You two can take a look There is a clothes preparation at home. Pick a few more I'll pay the bill Then I won't be polite to you. Don't be polite to me. These are new models in our store Fashionable style Many people like it Then this one And that one? Do you want all these? Are all of them enough for me except these? Well, don't you believe that my husband has talent? Husband BBQ OK Home appliance exposure The refill is very useful 106.8 million has been swiped Please keep your card 6.8 million Bro, why are you here? Did you buy all these clothes? Why do you buy so many clothes? Buy it for your sister-in-law What a coincidence, they rolled What sister-in-law? What did you say Shenmu, you loser Do you know how expensive these clothes are? What's wrong with expensive? That was your brother's card. I didn't spend your money. Be polite to your sister-in-law She is not my sister-in-law Only sister Lin Jing is worthy of my sister-in-law Chenmu simply took advantage of the loophole. She can't even compare to 1/10,000 of Sister Lin Jing Lin, don't say that Miss Shen should be unhappy after hearing this What I said is the truth. You and my brother were childhood sweethearts A handsome man and a beautiful woman You two are a match made in heaven. It's all my fault I can't help it. Haha, what a white lotus It's like I'm beating a mandarin duck Don't mention the past things again elder brother Sister Lin Jing and I are also here to buy clothes today. You can't be partial If you buy sunken wood, you must also buy it for us. She shouldn't refuse to buy clothes for Bai Yueguang, right? Have you spent all your pocket money this month? not much Hello I want to see the latest new models Excuse me New styles in the store They have all been bought by this lady Why all the new models have been bought by Shenmu? What a pity I have a skirt that I like very much It seems that I can't buy it Sister Lin Jing Just let my brother give you the skirt you like. Anyway, these clothes were bought by my brother. There are so many new styles that I can't wear them all. Can I give you a skirt? You spoke How could Shi Yan not give it to me? Don't say one. The whole store is Give This is what you want to give It's not my money anyway. Let me show you some home appliances I'm going to look somewhere else This is the dress I bought for your sister-in-law. Why are you so rude? You never asked for anything from anyone before. Bro, you're going too far. Wow, the clothes in this store are too expensive. Fortunately, I didn't Otherwise, I'll owe you another favor. What Stop! Stop! Uncle is so considerate I also have to help Lin Jing send the clothes home Why do you give the things I bought for you to others? Is my heart so worthless? I'm not sending it to anyone else. I am the white moonlight for you Shouldn't you thank me? What is white moonlight? What nonsense are you talking about? Oops, stop pretending. What am I pretending? Please make your words clear Should you be happy that I gave the clothes to Lin Jing? It's simply unreasonable Driving, Madam, don't you want to get in the car? Did I say something wrong? Hey, Boss Did you leave the rest? How do you know the rest? The system suddenly crashed I knew you left It collapsed so quickly They are indeed a bunch of idiots. Hey, Boss So many top companies around the world are looking for you You hide in such a small company Have you thought it through? Ready to show up? Not what I think It was Shengyu who fired me. Oh, but I know Recently, many people have been looking for you to inquire about me. But I have no plans to show up for now. So you should continue to keep this news for me. What the hell Shengyu fired you Boss, do you need me to find a new company? No need, I will do dog things Lu Group is such a big company Let's talk about the Lu experiment. ah Ahhh Uncle, what are you doing? You are robbing a woman in broad daylight. Be quiet This angry look is quite scary I haven't said yet Have you lost anything in your heart? No From now on, anything I give you is yours. Don't give it to others If you dare to trample on my heart again Be careful, I clean up How are you going to clean up? I tell you I'm not scared. Make the bed See who takes care of whom This is me A pure boy Uncle, why did you come back so early today? It's already 9 o'clock in the evening Still early Do you want me to die suddenly at work? How could I be so vicious? Don't go to the construction site I can actually make it myself. Sit still. Then I'll go to sleep first Girl, you are so rude. I won't even say thank you. How do you want me to thank you? Still saying it's not white moonlight This big night Lin Jin made a phone call How to meet here? Shi Yan, don't you remember Is this the first time we've had a serious conversation? Shi Yan Now the city is developing rapidly You've made a lot of enemies. Do you have any news in your mind? I know that Lu's company really needs Cindy's help now. So when I was abroad I've been trying to find out about him. You mean Cindy is abroad? He is in the country He knew many people were looking for him. So hide in an inconspicuous small business Finding him is not easy. As long as you can always find him in the country Shi Yan, I will do my best to help you This is the technical department. This is your independent doorman. Why This Lu Group is indeed a big company. The computer is so good. Hum, where are we going now? Take a look at the equipment in our main computer room That's awesome. Can broaden your horizons oops This is usually Ordinary people are not allowed in. But you don't lead the way So discerning Worthy of being the special master Ning Zan Ning Zan Wow, this computer is really different from the ones outside. This configuration looks top-notch. The configuration is top-notch What's the use of that? Look at our company. In the business world That's this So I was targeted by hackers every other day. I guess later You're having a hard time in the technical department. Well, don't worry. We have tried our best to find the heart of the computer genius After finding him We will hire you with a high salary You will feel relaxed then. Did you find it? Not yet hahaha Then I'll be relieved. Three views are almost Got to help you with your business. OK If you have any problem, please find Gao Tezhu Oh, you are indeed a relative. It was brought by Mr. Lu's special assistant. The visit and interview process is omitted. Direct entry You're not Gao's girlfriend, are you? Are you kidding? My tall pig girlfriend Not a tall pig girlfriend Then you are related to Mr. Lu I have nothing to do with Mr. Lu. It's okay. It's best. Our Mr. Lu has a master. Who is it? Of course it's Miss Lin Jing She is the only daughter of the Lin Group. With our President Lu A good match A handsome man and a beautiful woman So, Wu Suo, Wu Suo It seems that you have known Mr. Lu in advance. I warn you Don't rely on your appearance. I started to have inappropriate thoughts about Mr. Lu. Hey, don't worry. I can't do anything to our Mr. Lu Can you mind your own business? No go, no go New Employees Come to my office New Employees come over Uncle, what's up? Uncle De, what are you doing? Do you really want to cut ties with me? I'm doing this for your own good For my own good Then tell me how Think about it. Everyone knows that you and Miss Lin are a couple If I made our relationship public Don't call you a scumbag Do you also think we are a couple? Um Are you a dog? Excuse me I'm leaving first I thought she was just an insignificant little girl. I underestimated you. Shi Yan My mom specially made your favorite dish, stewed beef brisket with potatoes Let me bring it to you Any other dishes? Oh, of course. Uh, there's steamed fish. Braised pork and broccoli with shrimp That's enough for Mengmeng and I to eat. What? fine Shi Yan, these are made especially for you by my mother. Then please apologize to my aunt for me. Thank her for that. Shi Yan, I heard that grandma will be discharged from the hospital soon. You married Shen Mu back then Just to let grandma do the surgery Grandma is about to be discharged from the hospital now Is it time for the farce between you and Shen Mu to end? Shi Yan, do you know I regret not coming back on the engagement day every day can you forgive me I didn't blame you for this. It's over. Don't mention it again. As for me and Mumu That's our own business. But Shi Yan We grew up together So many years of love Can't compare That stinky girl I just met? Uncle lend it to me Sometimes fate is The boss is not well The company's system was completely paralyzed by the cycle What how so What should I do? I can't hold on any longer. This time the hackers are the top-ranked international organization If I can directly crack the opponent's attack Isn't it exposing the identity? The company's systems have all crashed. Repair Needs How long does it take to be considered a hacker? From the world's number one hacker group It takes at least 24 hours to crack Aren't you a glutton? It took 24 hours to crack this project. 24 hours Do you know What does it mean if a company is paralyzed for 24 hours? At least 10 billion in losses. Is there no other way? Don't rush the experiment. I'll find someone to think of a solution. The opponent is too strong this time. If the shortest time is needed There is only one person who can crack the opponent's words Whose heart No, I can't just watch. The uncle's company lost tens of billions. My aunt came to make trouble on her first day at work See how I flew back early. Boss Someone asked us for help It is said that Lushi system attacked the world's top hacker Mr. Zhang, please rest assured The crisis in our company was quickly resolved boss The company's confidential documents have begun to leak. If it cannot be resolved in time I'm afraid the loss is not worth 10 billion Don't rush the experiment. I'm already thinking of a solution No news yet? There is no point in rushing without experiments You should eat something first. I'm in no mood to eat now. I went to Dingsheng Technology Boss Boss boss Even if it is the prosperous Qin I don't have this strength. The piano says no Didn't the boss say that? Only new products can solve this problem So where is the current situation? Hello What Recovered Good, good, good Good system restored. I don't know who did it. Not only did we restore our system The hacker was hacked back. Now the hacker's website is completely paralyzed. It's Sindina If it's Cindy How come he is in our company? yeah yeah So fast The company's confidential documents were leaked. Look, I'll delete it for you. What is Shen Mo doing? Is he the one in his heart? The problem of experimental companies has been Solved I said Cindy would definitely give me this face Give you face What face do I give you? It's your heart that connects Yeah, I already said it. I will do my best to help you Miss Lin is indeed the top member of the Beijing Circle That's a good connection. Hahaha, you make a move Our company has tens of billions of funds, can't it? Thank you, Miss. Why Ms. Lin, do you know Cindy? Yes, otherwise why would Cindy help Lu? oh Then I'll take the liberty of asking Is this Cindy a man or a woman? Usually men play computer games Cindy is also a manly name. This Cindy must be a man Cindy is a man Oh, it turns out my idol is a man Girl, what are you doing in the computer room? I experiment Ms. Shen must also want to solve the company's crisis. But unfortunately, the ability is limited Don't blame her My ability is limited Do you know that I just Miss Shen Don't come in casually oh Got it, pay attention next time I won't help if something like this happens again. And next time Where do you work? I'm going to work It's dinner time I'll take you to dinner. Although the meal I brought was spilled But I still have a lot at home Why don't you come home with me to eat? Miss Lin is talking about you Just go to dinner with Miss Lin I'll just order takeout. How can this bitch be so generous? Are you playing hard to get? I said I'd take you out for dinner. What to order for takeaway Just a takeaway What's so bad? Okay Miss Shen, don't be angry Why don't the three of us go eat together? Shi Yan It's been a long time since we had a meal together like this Are you okay? Miss Shen, when did you meet Shi Yan? What's going on lately? What's the matter? without It seems that Shi Yan's marriage to him was indeed just an impulse. Being nice to him is just to make me angry on purpose. Shi Yan My Life The day is coming In the past, you would prepare many surprises for me every year. What are you going to give me this year? We'll talk about it later. Well, I believe you won't let me down. besides Don't you want to see Cindy? Don't worry I'll arrange for him to meet you soon. Are you okay? Miss Lin, who do you want to see? Cindy Since he is willing to help me this time I guess you won't refuse to give me a face. Lin Jing This time, it's all thanks to you. If you can introduce me to Xinxin I will give you a generous bill then. experiment I don't lack money If I helped you I hope you can promise me one thing What's up I'll tell you then. Oh yeah Miss Lin, everyone says this star rating It's really hard to make an appointment Are you confident you can get him? Others can't make an appointment But I believe I can I will invite him to my birthday party. Our Lin family is well-known in Beijing. I'm sure you won't give me this face. This should really be given face. I have a phone I'll pick it up. What phone? To run so far to pick up Hello Boss Do you know Lin Qing, the daughter of Lin Group? I have seen it but I won't let you take it. Unfamiliar Why did you help him solve the Lu Corporation's crisis? Who said that I solved the crisis of Lu Group because of him? This Lu Group is not owned by his family. Lu's Group must be owned by the Lu family Since you are not for peace So you are here to help Lu Shiyan Hey, don't ask so many questions. I ask you Are you familiar with Lin Jing? I'm not familiar with him. I've never seen him. He seems to have misunderstood your burglary. Is for He wants to invite you to his birthday party. What a big face! Please help me accept his invitation. Really? You're going to his birthday party. Are you planning on showing up? Hey, nowadays The company is tracking me closely I will be found sooner or later The Lin family held a banquet this time All plenary sessions will be invited It's a good opportunity to show up. It will steal the limelight from the daughter of the Lin family. What's wrong with being afraid of stealing the limelight? I tell you He invited me just to do me a favor. snort It's just that he would never think of me in his dreams Just from the bottom of my heart Thank you, Miss Shen, for taking care of me during this time. Time takes care of you Miss Shen will not think that with your status You can stay in the experimental body all the time My family is indeed not as noble as Miss Lin's But the experiment doesn't mind Otherwise, she wouldn't let me be her wife. You think The experiment is really want to marry You are just my substitute. It's not up to you to decide who the replacement is. A good-for-nothing person like Miss Shen Is there anything worthy of Shen? Might as well tell you When I introduce brothers to the experiment I will let him divorce you Your substitute will be discarded like garbage Ms. Lin's abacus is good. But man proposes, God disposes I advise you, Miss Lin. The price of happiness Who will stop me? What are you? I can help the experiment solve the Lu crisis Save billions of losses Can you Isn't Lu's crisis solved from the bottom of his heart? Heart That's for my sake. Our Lin family has a first-class reward in this life You ant I won't see you in this lifetime. Heart Indeed can't see Unless I look in the mirror Chen Mu, I owe you 10 words Just leave 10 Otherwise one day I will be abandoned and become a joke It's not necessarily who is laughing. Whose phone call takes so long? Male or female Male Talking about speculation So let's talk for a while. There are people in the whole city of Beijing who are more handsome, richer and more outstanding than me. A man of better character What if there is? Are you kidding? What man Hey, hey, I won't show it to you. I'll just take a look no hurry up don't give it hurry up No, no, no What are you guys going to do? grandmother This one is called Chenmu He's a bitch Also likes to spend money randomly My brother married him just to deal with you. You must drive him out Grandma is very old Know how to read people Don't worry, you can deal with this kind of person. Grandma has a way Grandma, why are you dressed like this? Why do you dress like this? There is a reason for it. Didn't time find a granddaughter-in-law? I'll be back soon. You guys, hide now. I'm here waiting for him alone. Not grandma You meet him dressed like this. Aren't you afraid that he will bully you? This is at Lu's house. What am I afraid of? Hurry up, let's go I'm waiting for him here alone. The experiment says grandma will come home today I don't know if I've reached home yet. Are all the servants at home on holiday? Why are you so broke? How come I haven't seen you before? You're still doing housework at your age? Do you think I'm too old? That's not what I meant. I think you work hard. I understand that it must be forced by life. This granddaughter-in-law is very beautiful You still have to try your character Hard work is not hard It's just that I'm old. I'm not very good at doing things. After all, you can't compare with young people. It's okay You don't have to compare yourself with young people. Just do your own thing The housekeeper shouldn't make too complicated arrangements for the old lady. oops I'm so sorry I didn't mean it. The things in this house are quite expensive. This time the money should be worth a lot of money It's all my fault I didn't hold it steady. You punish me. Did it scare you? Your hand isn't hurt, is it? You don't help me break things. Everything is broken. Why do I blame you? Besides As an old man, you have to work. Not easy But this thing is really valuable. What if the second lady of the Lu family blames me? They definitely can't run away. Hey, how about this? If he asks you, just say you are still responsible for me. Aren't you afraid that the Lu family will punish you? What is this I am Lu Shiyan's wife. He dares to punish me Self-respecting wife is so good Not the kind of person Yingying said. Who broke the blue and white porcelain vase in the house? What did I hit? Do you know how much this vase costs? You broke it like this. How could my brother marry a loser like you? I'll compensate you whatever amount you want. Miss, you have to pay Easier said than done The price of the vases in my Lu family has never been less than 3 million. Can a loser like you afford the compensation? That's 3 million OK Now I will give The tone is quite big This bank card must have been given to you by my brother. Use my brother's money to compensate our Lu family It's totally unnecessary Hey, let me make a statement This is my own money It has nothing to do with your brother. Who trusts your money? Don't you see how poor your Shen family is? Just on your own Don't say 3 million I don't think you can even pay back 3,000 yuan. That's enough. I broke the picture. Grandma, didn't we just agree that I would hit Don't think about exonerating Shenmu. This vase is obviously broken by the sacred tree. After all, he is a country bumpkin. Where have you seen such precious porcelain? Yes, it's really good. I broke it. Uh, it has nothing to do with this old lady. I knew it was you You broke my Lu family's things. You want someone else to take the blame for you? Shen Mo, you are so shameless You should believe now that I broke it. Grandma, what are you doing? This is my favorite piece of porcelain. Grandma, how could you break it? Tingting It's normal for this old man to be clumsy at work. What is this called? White jade porcelain vase I also compensated you. Put it on my account Don't embarrass the child Your thoughts I understand. You dead girl How do you talk to your sister-in-law? What is poor? What is a country bumpkin? Is this how our Lu family educates you? You should apologize to your sister-in-law right away. grandmother He is the second daughter of the Lu family How is the second lady of the Lu family? Today Erlang Shen comes and I will deal with him just like him Apologize to your sister-in-law right now. Otherwise I'll tell your brother to cut off your pocket money. See if you dare to stir up trouble in front of your sister-in-law. Grandma, I won't apologize to her. Why are you helping an outsider? I'm your granddaughter. What? This old lady is actually from Shiyan? What kind of outsider is grandma? She is your sister-in-law Lu Yingying, are you going to apologize today? Not true You, please, please I apologize, I apologize, isn't that enough? I'm sorry, sister-in-law Haven't eaten yet? Speak louder I'm sorry, sister-in-law It doesn't matter You're such a good girl. Our Shi Yan married you This is her blessing. Hey, it's okay How come this politeness is praised all day and into the night? What is the charm of this vixen? Grandma likes her so much What disease do you have? I see you're in good spirits. Is this body recovered? Why did this girl suddenly ask this? Is it really as Yingying said? Her Experiment Marry her to deal with me He will leave when I recover. That won't work. We must not let such a good granddaughter-in-law run away Oh, it's not that fast. I had heart bypass surgery. A few of them still need to be raised for several months. ah Heart bypass Discharged from hospital so soon I don't want to stay in the hospital Just go home and take care of it slowly. Oh, you better be careful. This postoperative recovery is very important. Um That witch from Ge Shenmu drugged my grandma Grandma dotes on her now. If you can't speak, shut up. Bro, what are you doing? Grandma beat me today. Why did you hit me today? Who told you to talk nonsense? I'm not talking nonsense. You were all drugged by him. Otherwise, why would everyone help him? shine Hello grandma Yeah Since this girl is already here to deal with me I guess they are not married yet. I have to make them cook the rice You scared me to death Why aren't you sleeping here late at night? Of course I'll wait for you What are you waiting for me for? We can say it You sleep over there and I sleep over here Can't afford Who do you think I am? Don't worry I won't cross the line without your permission. Who knows Who is it late at night? The young master and the old lady asked me to come and deliver something. Madam, this is the fruit wine that the old lady sent. It is said to be a local specialty Can calm the mind and help sleep I was specially asked to send it to you and the young master for a taste. A gift from grandma That's really thoughtful. Please help me thank him for It smells pretty good. Our hometown specialty My grandmother was born and raised in Beijing. When did Beijing start producing national liquor? It's not your old family property. But it tastes good. What is this old lady up to? It's so hot. Is your air conditioner on? Yes. Uncle, touch me I feel sick. It's so hot. Not only are you sick I seem to be sick too. yes Doctor, your eyes are so cool I can hug you straw The closer you are Mmm, uncle, you smell so good. Can I have a kiss? Um You sent it to me yourself Sober tomorrow How about they both drink? I said it was a specialty of your hometown, madam. The young master and the young mistress will definitely drink it. That's great. I will release Nong Chong's grandson immediately. Uncle is a beast My body still hurts now Hey Xiao Mo Your family is looking for you My family Yes, it's downstairs in the company. You go over there quickly Thanks, I'll go right away oops Look, this Lu Xikuan is indeed a master. It's really annoying. oops What the hell Hahaha daughter You've been married into the Lu family for several days. Why don't you go back to your parents' home? It's not that she married into a wealthy family Forget about us. How could you possibly tie me up at home on my wedding day? Trying to use Shen Meng to raise the family I remember this clearly Mu Mu, this is a misunderstanding But how can there be an overnight feud between parents? Yes, yes, don't worry misunderstanding misunderstanding You didn't say at that time that the person Mr. Lu married was you. If you tell us We will definitely treat Mengmeng like this Marry you off in style Okay, okay. What do you want from me? It's no big deal. It's our family business. There was a little problem recently We want to find Mr. Lu Ah no no Find my good son-in-law to invest some money We don't want much. I just need 50 million first, hahahaha 50 million Are you guys okay? You guys, I tell you I won't give you a penny from the Lu family Why My father-in-law on the mainland has a talent of only 50 million Does he want to give this face? Just your Shen family's property Sold for more than 50 million And The betrothal gift that Lu Laboratory gave you is worth at least 30 million. How much money are you going to give me? dowry this You are a married daughter, like spilled water. What do you want as a dowry? Alas, Momo You've married into a wealthy family. How come my elbows are bent outward? How can parents not give their daughter a dowry when she gets married? You dare to ask for money? Aren't you two ashamed? Hey you stinky Forget it, he is Mrs. Lu now. Give Mr. Lu a face Don't make it too embarrassing I have something else to do You two, hurry up and leave! Gone Hey you white-eyed wolf You are Chenmu's family Are you I am Lin Jing, the daughter of the Lin Group, hahaha Lam Group heard of heard of That is a big company second only to the Lu Group. hey-hey That Miss Lin You and our Mumu are good friends. Let's talk somewhere else. Why don't you answer the phone? Hello I will leave the apartment You'll be watching me. Uncle, you are too inconsiderate. What a mess Today's special Go out with me to meet clients. You let me be your little villain? Mr. Zhu, our Mr. Cheng has been waiting for you for a long time. Hello Mr. Lu A man who is engaged in business is so handsome Hello Mr. Lu Hello Mr. Lu Hello, I finally invited you here. Please take a seat Mr. Lu Our Hongshang Group is absolutely 100% sincere. Come cooperate with Lu I wonder if you have any concerns? No worries. Before I came I have already asked someone to investigate your company's strength. I don't want to say anything extra. Hongchang, please give us a little more profit. I can sign immediately Why give a little more profit? Mr. Lu, you have to let us make some money. From the founding of Lu All companies cooperating with Lu Group No one doesn't make money. Is Mr. Cheng questioning the sincerity of my group? This Lu Group is indeed a business giant. How can such an ordinary company be a rival? Mr. Lu, I, Hongchang, have always firmly chosen Lu's cooperation Naturally, I believe in Lu's strength. I suddenly remembered I forgot to show you something, Mr. Lu. Why don't you take a look at it and then make a decision? What is this situation? Why is the computer screen black? Why My computer screen is black too. Me too The system must have been hacked. Call technicians to rescue Don't lose important files on your computer It should be difficult for ordinary technicians to protect their rights When did Mr. Lu change his secretary? His name is Chen Mu It's my Mr. Chen What's going on Mr. Cheng, our system has been attacked by hackers. It takes some time to crack How long will it take? Mr. Lu is still waiting This might not be that fast. Maybe tomorrow or the day after tomorrow What takes so long? Can the important information you thought you had still be preserved? I'm afraid I can't save it. Finished It's all over. Why don't you let me try it? Aren't you Mr. Lu's secretary? Hey, Mr. Lu's secretary It's not something that ordinary people can do. Let him try Why Oh well How is this possible? The system has been repaired Everyone can work normally now Who are you? I In addition to Cindy Who else can crack this level 1 attack so quickly? I am Mr. Lu's secretary. It turns out that Cindy is Mr. Lu's secretary No wonder the Lu Group is so powerful Get rid of useless things. There are really many hidden dragons and crouching tigers around Mr. Lu. Secretary Shen, thank you very much today You are our great hero in Hongchang little things little things Just a little effort for others It's just a matter of effort But Hongzhang's people needed two days The power of the Lu family is truly unimaginable Mr. Lu expressed his views on this cooperation I can continue to make profits And can make a profit of 5 points But I have a merciless request I don't know if Mr. Lu can endure the pain and give up his love. Let Secretary Shen come to work in Hongchang Is it possible that Mr. Cheng wants to poach my Uncle Lu? Don't dare I only believe in Lu's Talents like Secretary Shen must be everywhere I am willing to give up tens of billions of funds Just to get talents like Secretary Shen I didn't expect that the CEO of Tengchao is actually a visionary. Only 10 billion yuan Is it possible that there is no one in my Lu Group who wants to poach me? You are dreaming Uncle won't let me get billions of dollars When did I become so valuable? Mr. Lu, I can give you 10 points I wonder if you could reconsider this. After all, I'm just your secretary. It seems that today's cooperation with Hong Chang This can't be discussed. No no no Mr. Lu, please calm down. Since Mr. Lu is unwilling to give up Then let's follow what Mr. Lu said before. I, Hongchang, will give you a little more profit Just to ask him to cooperate with Mr. Lu Secretary Shen What's the matter, Mr. Chen? That Secretary Shen Although I don't know how much annual salary Lu will give you. But if you are willing to come to Hongchang I am willing to be ten times better than Mr. Lu Thank you Mr. Shen for your kindness But I have no plans to jump right now Well, I hope I have a plan We, Hongchang, must be given priority. In addition, Hongchang's door is always open to you Secretary Shen, Mr. Lu, has talents like you by his side. It's so powerful I warn you Stop making good plans It seems that Secretary Shen and Mr. Lu have an unusual relationship. No wonder we can't find anyone. Isn't the business quite successful? Why is uncle unhappy? Hongchang was attacked by hackers Their technicians are helpless. Girl How do you do it? Solve the problem in a few minutes He doubted my identity. They are helpless That's their problem. This little problem For everyone in our video technology department, It's all a piece of cake Yeah I'm afraid you'll be possessed by evil spirits. So let me wake you up with something substantial This is quite useful for me. Do you think being Mrs. Lu is pretty good? Would you consider being Mrs. Lu for life? lifetime Please look at this This is the treasure of our store. Heart of Eternity Necklace Eternal Heart I'm sure you've heard of this necklace. This necklace is not only hard to come by And there is a magical power Just give it to your loved ones The two of them will live forever and never be separated So magical Oh, you don't believe this kind of thing. This is the setting To increase the price, the designer A deliberate stunt Buy all How much is this Because this necklace is hard to come by so Its price is slightly higher than ordinary jewelry. This one is priced at 50 million 50 million What can I do with 50 million? And I think this thing isn't that pretty. snort I don't want you to feel I want me to feel I must buy this eternal heart today For you 50 million really Are you crazy? What can't you buy with 50 million? You buy this and I'll tell you. If he is really worthless He should be at the auction. Instead of here You really have that much spare money You give me 50 million Don't buy this experiment What a coincidence Are you looking at jewelry here too? Did this person install a locator on the uncle? From the haunted The Eternal Heart Family Store actually has an Eternal Heart Mr. Lu, you must give Jingjing to our family. Oh, the difference in strength between the two companies is so huge. You don't know Of course it is Ten sausages are no match for a person with poor direction That's right. They are incompetent, that's their problem We are all machines. You've done your best today. Tell me what reward you want. As a recording employee For recording That is our obligation No reward needed Don't PUA yourself I happened to have something to go out this afternoon. Take you shopping What to buy Uncle You took me to buy jewelry? After all, you worked hard last night. This move is a mess Then I won't be polite. How much is this This 188,000 purchase What about this? This one is bought for 288,000 The thing your husband lacks the least is money Two distinguished guests Our store just received a treasure today Do you want to see it? Take out the best things in your store Okay, I Go get it now Not an uncle. You are so willing to spend money Are you showing me your strength on purpose? What is the eternal heart? That symbolizes love. As long as men give it to their beloved women They will never be separated in their lifetime Really? Of course it is true. Mr. Lu, you and Jingjing from our family grew up together. I think you won't be stingy and give me a necklace. In what era can we never be separated from each other in this life? I don't know whether I will be a pig or a dog in my next life. What is the situation Is this the queen and the mistress? Who is it? It's my birthday soon. Can you give this to me as a birthday present? Just a necklace It's nothing to me Wrap up the eternal heart The uncle really wants to give this smiling face to Lin Jing Jingjing, I know that Mr. Lu will definitely give it to you. How could I almost forget I'm just a substitute for Lin Jing My wife picked this necklace in advance. So you can't choose Zhenjiang as your birthday gift You choose another style I'll buy it for you oh Quiet, what's wrong with you? It's okay. I just have an old problem. My heart feels a little uncomfortable What can I do? Mr. Lu, please take our family quietly to the hospital. It's a fine little experiment I still want to go shopping with Miss Shen. I can just go by myself Why do you have this old habit that comes up so quickly? Got sick again Are you still not optimistic about going abroad for treatment after so many years? The doctor said this is an old problem An experiment that cannot cure the disease You can continue to accompany Miss Shen. But uncle My boyfriend is coming to see me soon What can I do? Then I'll go by myself. You go back to the company first. I'll go to the hospital with Linlin Okay, go ahead. See clearly? We are quietly in Mr. Lu's heart They were childhood sweethearts Growing up together Jingjing just frowns Mr. Lu will feel distressed So this is What's your relationship? Of course it does. Some people have no shame Always occupying Mrs. Lu's position How dare you snatch the necklace from Jingjing? Rob Which eye of yours saw me snatch it? This is given to me by Shiyan And you guys If you can't get it, pretend to be sick Shameless I wonder how long you can be so proud. You know Mr. Lu has been looking for a big shot The new enemy is going to attend Jingjing's birthday party soon I'm telling you You will be kicked out of the Lu family soon. Wait, I'm waiting. Is the Eternal Heart really that magical? Would you consider being Mrs. Lu for life? Why See clearly? We are quietly in Mr. Lu's heart They were childhood sweethearts. Growing up together Jingjing just frowns Mr. Lu will feel distressed It turns out that men's words are deceiving. What? Wake up. Don't get stuck in it. Although he is rich and handsome The mouth is quite sweet But your marriage is just a transaction Boss It's really you Hi, why are you here? I'm out to do something. I'll take you wherever you want to go I don't know where to go Let me see what this is Eternal Heart This is a sacred object that symbolizes love. What is the sacred object that symbolizes love? You believe these nonsense. I still believe in my Qin Shi Huang Hey You're still the same as before There is no romance at all Ahhh Stop talking nonsense Send me to Lushi ah Shenmu actually keeps a gigolo outside I must tell Jingjing The doctor said the problem is not serious. You can be discharged from the hospital after two days of rest. Ask your family to come and accompany you. I'm going back to the company first. Who is it? Don't go. Yes, it takes time for family members to come over. I'm scared in the hospital alone Or we can find a caregiver. Shi Yan, how long has it been since we had a good conversation? It's getting late The company has other important matters Don't know either Have the police left? Experiment: Do you really know Shen Mu? What do you mean Today we leave A man in a sports car came to pick her up The two people seem very close. I have photos here You can take a look Shi Yan, you haven't known him for long. I guess I don't know his background. Is there any purpose for him approaching you? Enough He's not who you think he is. I am doing this experiment for your own good. Our family is social We grew up together. I'm afraid you'll be cheated by another woman. Hey Miss Li Is the Sun Hung Kai Boss really coming over today? Of course he will come if he promised me Hackers are rampant in the business world today Our company really needs a new boss. Such talents Who said Bodhisattva I had a big deal today. I heard a new boss is coming. I'll come over immediately Please rest assured, everyone Sindi will be here soon Jingjing, so many people want to date the new boss You've made an appointment He won't have a crush on you, right? What did he say? The boss doesn't have this special hobby. Mr. Qin, how long will it take for Cindy to arrive? Oh, I just asked. On the way, should be here soon Mr. Qin I want to ask how old is Cindy this year? Anyway, the boss is coming soon. Tell me his age It should be nothing. About the same age as you. Quietly, I will say that Star Boss loves you. Jingjing is a talented computer genius A handsome Mr. Lu Two such excellent men like you I don't know how to choose. What nonsense are you talking about? You should be unhappy after hearing this. It seems Jingjing is the more sober Mr. Lu. Ms. Lin Your special guest has arrived What Just one photo I won't speculate about his character. Miss, as the daughter of Lin Talking bad about others behind their backs It's not your doing. Who wants me Okay, I'm leaving now. You should take good care of yourself. I don't believe you don't mind at all Find out who is the man in the photo I want all his information I don't believe there is a better man than me in the whole city of Beijing I will announce my identity to everyone tomorrow. If uncle knew I was CD, don't blame me never mind Anyway, the uncle and I were just playing around. It's okay to hide your identity. Eternal Heart It's so magical Hey, your granddaughter-in-law is dressed so beautifully today You're attending a neighbor's party. Well, what about Shi Yan? Why doesn't he go with you? Hmm experiment He is a bit busy at work today. Ask me to go first This is a great opportunity for you to show your affection, little brat! And you got overturned by the waves It's okay, grandma. Then you take a good rest at home I'll leave first. Hey wait Your clothes are too tight. It will be much more beautiful with this bracelet Thank you grandma Sorry Miss Shen You can't go in now I have an invitation Why can't you enter? What You are not welcome here This is funny Give me an invitation but don't let me in Do you think I would invite you? If it weren't for the experiment Bring you some love What do you think you are? Do you want to look at the name above? Who doesn't know Shenmu? The country bumpkin still wants to hook up with Mr. Lu Do you really think that you have turned from a pheasant into a phoenix? Hey, what if this is Sister Qing's certificate? Dead wood No matter what tricks you want to play Today is my birthday party All the people here are from the upper class. You're a dirty person and don't deserve to participate. Why didn't Vice President Shen Mu come with you? It's Mr. Lu who dislikes you. That's why I didn't come with you, right? Mr. Lu I must have gone to prepare a birthday gift for Jingjing. Jingjing connected him with the forest boss He will definitely give Jingjing a Big surprise OK Let me in I don't care Don't regret it stop What can I do for you? The heart of eternity you wear around your neck Is that the Heart of Eternity you wear around your neck? So what? Why wear the Eternal Heart? Wear it around my neck What's it to you? If you hadn't experimented This eternal heart was given to me a long time ago. Oh, why didn't I give it to you? You stole it, you bitch. What are you still standing there for? Give me that eternal scarf. Security Security Give me Don't touch me You want to be with Shi Yan forever I won't let you out. Hey You are the eldest daughter of the Lin family, and you are stealing other people's things. You and your mother They don't want to spend a fortune doing the things of pigs and dogs. Why do you say that about my mother? Believe it or not, I will tear your mouth I tell you Until now I am still his wife, Lu Shenyan Do you think he will help me or you? Lock him up first. Wait until Shi Yan agrees to divorce him Let's deal with him. Oh, miss him You guys are going too far. Hey, stop moving. Hey hey hey Let me go Lin Jian, you regret it again Do you know you regret it? from today on You will be kicked out of the Lu family I'll crush you to death Like squeezing an ant to death Hey hey hey Dead wood This pretty boy outside of yours really cares about you. What pretty boy? What nonsense are you talking about? Hey you From now until the end of my birthday party No one will find you. Are you sure you've been followed for years? My mobile phone's positioning system is always turned off But once the phone malfunctions or is damaged, This positioning system will automatically turn on Soon everyone will be reversed Dead wood I have prepared the divorce agreement between you and Shi Yan Wait for experiment 1,000 times I'll send it back to you. From now on You are on the chopping board. Fish at the mercy of others Look at his bracelet. Looks like it's worth the money Why does this bracelet look familiar? I tell you Don't think about this bracelet. My grandma gave this to me. I remember This is the Lu family's heirloom. Passed to Lu's daughter-in-law I thought it was an ordinary bracelet. I didn't expect it to be a Lu family heirloom. Why don't you grab him for me? The future mistress of the Lu family will only be me This bracelet is mine too. Hey, what are you doing? Take it. I wonder why the boss's phone suddenly can't be reached. Gu Shao is here So handsome on the road I think he is more handsome than before October you finally came Didn't sister-in-law Yingying come with you? No, I don't get along with him. I won't ride in the same car with him. I sent an invitation to Chen Mu Maybe he doesn't really want to come. If you don't want to come, forget it Has Cindy arrived? Cindy hasn't arrived yet But it should be soon I just said I was on the way Okay, I'll be waiting for you. He shouldn't ignore me. Mr. Qin When will Cindy come? I don't know either His phone suddenly stopped working. How could this happen? He won't not come, will he? How would I know this? He always does things in a mysterious way. If something more important happens Maybe he won't come. I told everyone that he would definitely come So many people came for him. Aren't you kidding me? What? Xindi is not coming? What I promoted a local project to meet Xindi He didn't come I'm at a big loss. Which song did they sing this time? Deliberately deceived us Tracking the psychological position Cindy's location has been tracked down. Cindy at the hotel I must see Cindy before the birth I must let Cindy take my company What's going on? Cindy is here. My location is turned on. Nothing will happen, right? Door locked from outside I'm inside and can't open it. Girls of the heart ceremony Why does this voice sound so much like a little girl? They actually came here to find Xingdi What is Xingdi? Where is the lobby manager? The door is locked Open the door. Who locked Jindi in here? I think this person doesn't want to live anymore. If I catch you I will definitely avenge you Quietly, everyone is not wrong How could the Sydney boss be in there? Yes, it must be Shenmu Sidi is obviously a man How could it be a sacred tree? No mistake Location display information is here Quiet, I just went in. Didn't check if there was anyone else in the room Won't Did you really put Jingyi and Shen Muguan together? The room card is here The room card is here Little girl, it's really you Why Is this little girl Cindy? How is it possible? Cindy is a man There should be someone else in this room. Everyone, please find out if it is him. Where did you hide him? Shi Yan Unexpectedly, Chen Mu actually cheated on Hong Xing I'm having a room with another man behind your back. Hongxing cheats What's going on with the boss, Mr. Lu? Shut up why are you there in this room Is there anyone else? Is there anyone else in this room? Just search for yourself and you'll find the answer. Shen Mo, you are such a fickle woman Are you worthy of Mr. Lu? How come you found the adulterer? Early love There's no Quietly, there is no trace of other men in this room impossible Some other man must have stolen it. I don't know what you're looking for. What he is enough I know everyone wants an answer. Today I will be in front of all the guests Explain everything clearly to everyone Who is the woman next to Mr. Lu? The two of them look so well matched. I heard that Mr. Lu recently got married. Could it be that the woman next to Mr. Lu is Mrs. Lu? Miss Shen Are you and Xin Dee knows you Can you tell me Where is he now? Uh, I must invite him today. Yes, I came here today just for him. Otherwise, it's just a birthday party. Is it worth a trip in person? Hey yes yes We must find Shen Di today Keep the change, please Because I am my sister-in-law What are you Cindy? Girl, are you kidding? What am I kidding about? If I wasn't Cindy Why did you do that because of Cindy's positioning? And find me Oh my god Cindy is actually a girl Still so beautiful but Why are you locked up in a hotel? That's because them Miss Lin Jing said I don't deserve to be in your life Your family is too bullying If you don't deserve Who else is worthy? If it weren't for you today How did we get here? This is not true How could he be in his heart? Just match with a country bumpkin How could it be the bottom of my heart? Don't be fooled by him. That's ridiculous. I've been begging you to come and join me. I came and you turned me away I'm not participating You are You are Mr. Qin. Mr. Qin, you are most familiar with Cindy. Please tell everyone He's not Cindy. He is a fake You really know the wind I testify that the sunken wood is new He is the founder of our Dingsheng Technology is my boss not true Is there any mistake? Shenmu is actually the boss of Xindi We have offended the Sun Hung Kai Properties boss and the company is finished. You, I always worship you Heartfelt Boss Acting stupid Finished I was originally invited by Miss Lin Jing Come to his birthday party But after arriving, I was turned away. Lin Jingfang and her bestie not only robbed my property And locked me in a hotel room and didn't let me stay If it wasn't for the fact that my whereabouts would be exposed I don't know if I can adjust today. Fix her Looting The Lin family is too arrogant. Isn't Ning Jing a famous socialite in Beijing? I didn't expect to do such a dirty thing. What is tranquility? Is that true? No, who isn't like this? This isn't true. I testify that this is all true Show me evidence This is Lin Jing's bag. Xixi, I'm giving you my stuff back. This is not what I want He forced me to do it. For the sake of me doing this You clearly said to let my company go Now everyone believes that what I said is true Your family is too bullying I promise to be a wood industry No more cooperation with the Lin family Also, my Zheng Group will never cooperate with the Lin family. And our Yongzhao Liu family No Shanbo, I didn't mean it. I have no idea You are in my heart I advise everyone If they don't cooperate with my Lin family Our Lin family will go bankrupt. The Lin family openly did such a heartless thing The Lin family will not go bankrupt Who is bankrupt? Our two families are old friends. You have to help me Lin Jing, you disappoint me so much Hello Look at the good things you did The loser is the scourge of my Lin family No, it's not like that. Dad, listen to me. Hello, Dad Why did you hurt me? You're the excuse I've been looking for So what? You know I'm looking for Why didn't you tell me earlier? Playing me well Playing tricks on you Do I need to play tricks on you? I hid my identity from the world. Why should I tell you alone? Uncle Our marriage was a transaction. A transaction So from beginning to end You've never been interested in me. What did I answer? Uncle, you are weird too. Didn't we agree on this at the time? I will leave when grandma recovers. how Regret it What's wrong with me? Tell me if you can Really good at turning the tables Obviously, I want my sweetheart first If I leave, won't that be a relief for you? You are the one who has a crush on someone What is your relationship with Qin Fei? Xiaoqin and I Is it because you like her? Because of her That's why you're leaving me Is it right Lu Shiyan, you are really unreasonable I am unreasonable. I will complete you Grandma's illness hasn't healed yet. You're driving me away. Before I regret it Get out of my world now Return the things to you Too noble Lord Let's part ways Just lend the divorce agreement to my house. Hello Where's the boss? Take good care of him If you dare to let him down he Who is it? Who is this coming back? Hahaha Isn't this Lute? Why am I tired of living in this big villa? I'm afraid I won't get used to living in this humble house of the Shen family. Mr. Shen, what do you mean? This house is an inheritance left to me by my mother I can't come You damn girl You marry into a wealthy family Just forget it if you don't find a good place for us. I still dare to think about my house Mom and Dad, you haven't figured it out yet? He must have been kicked out by the Lu family. I said a wild animal like him Which wealthy family can't be looked at by the master? The master would not really be brought out by the Lu family Otherwise, I don't need you. I'm going to take a break Stop arguing This is an unacceptable thing. I thought we would all benefit from his marriage to Young Master Lu. Hey, I didn't expect it to be returned so soon. Oh, my Shen family's face He was thrown away Jianguo, don't worry first. Do you remember what Miss Lin promised us? Yes, Miss Lin said As long as Shen Mu leaves the Lu family and marry someone else will invest in our Mushi Group So now we just need to marry Chenmu out We can go to Lin's Group to invest haha Marry her immediately Of course immediately What if it's too late and Miss Lin changes her mind? This married person Then we have to find the right person. I've already found this person. Although it is a second marriage But the family conditions are very good Chen Mu will also enjoy happiness when she gets married. Oh, what are you afraid of for a second marriage? That person's heavy wood face How old is this man? Just a teenager It's not retirement age yet. This is too good. Such a short time Where can I find someone? Besides, he is willing to give a gift of 300,000 yuan. 300,000 hehehe This is not much. Lu Chao paid 30 million as a gift dad You have to take a longer view After Chen Mu gets married, It affects my sister and our family's investment is at least tens of millions. good Marry me tonight Hey, time is enough, enough is enough Stop drinking, okay. Okay, okay, get out of here. Why Sir, what are you talking about? Don't want me anymore No, Shiyan You are the most powerful and influential man in our city. There will be women who don't want you Shiyan is not talking about Lin Jing, right? I think it is Shiyan and he are childhood sweethearts. Who doesn't know they are a couple? Even you think I look like Lin Jing When did I say it was Lin Jing? I remember who that was Isn't Shi Yan married? Could it be his old man? What's going on with Shen Chen? Dead wood The little girl is so disgusting What's wrong with me How can I be inferior to that guy named Qin? What is the situation My wife has fallen in love with someone else. Oh, what is this? Just take it back. Robbery Isn't this popular now? Which sensational charm is so great? You tell me where he is Let's get him. Qin Fei just met me before me Which one of you is more handsome than him? Is he more handsome than me? Are you richer than me? Am I good to him? Come take a Leave Your name is Qin Fei Check who he is. I found out that he is the chairman of Dingsheng Technology Still looks pretty handsome But it's worse than the experiment. As the saying goes Good women are afraid of clinging men You, don't give up easily. If you like her You just go and pester her I'm telling you You are in such good condition She will definitely like you after a while. Never give up easily Otherwise you will regret it for the rest of your life Sister, slow down. Don't fall. It's not too late to go tomorrow. Unexpected We are still such an affectionate person on the road Boss, let's go home directly Let's go to Shen's house. If you don't understand, get out of here and I'll see. I understand. I understand. Young Madam's home? Let's go now sky You drink like this Who dares to let you drive? Silently you woke up I know you left the Lu family Feeling bad But it doesn't matter Your family will always have your back Your mother is right. This is home, it's always your home You two took the wrong medicine. Shen Mo, don't be ungrateful Mom and Dad don't need you Kicked out of the Lu family Poor guy, I made a big table of food for you I don't need you. If you're selling this house because you're afraid of me That's why I treat you like this That's not necessary. This house was left to me by my mother. There are many memories of my mother in it There's no way I can sell this house. I just knew it This girl values friendship Let the waiters eat Hey, that's enough, that's enough Don't end up looking like a dead pig when the time comes Mr. Wang doesn't like this I know what is this It's not like you don't know how stubborn this girl Chen Mu is. This is the only way to make her cooperate with Mr. Wang. Come on, let's get them in the car and send them to Mr. Wang. What are you going to do? Of course, I'll take you to be Mr. Wang's bride. What? Mr. Wang asked me to sell this car. This is gonna sell me out. Don't say this. We're going to marry you off. Although Mr. Wang is over 50 years old But he will hurt. It's not like the road will push you back Just live a good life with him. You're going to marry me to a woman in her 50s He said he wasn't selling women. You are a second-hand product. What are you still picky about? Ms. Lin said Just marry you out will invest in our Shen Group This is a sure win business. Hahaha Dead wood Miss Lin and Mr. Lu are a couple You have to mess with them A shameless bitch like you Marry you to an old man in his 50s That's all an advantage to you Sure enough it was him Do you really think Rongjin will help you? Did you know that Lin's is going to go bankrupt soon? Bankruptcy Are you kidding me? The Lin Group is second only to the Lu Group. Large companies Why waste your words on him? Drive away quickly. Get him away quickly. Shen Jianguo, are you worthy of my mother? Tiger poison is not dead yet You're selling your daughter. My mother is in heaven She won't forgive you. How many years has your mother been dead? She still manages me I tell you In my heart, there is only Mengmeng, my daughter. What did you say You never considered me your son-in-law. You never thought of me as your daughter. I never considered you my daughter. I didn't love your mother either. I married her just for this house. Shen Jianguo you bastard My mother must have been blind to like me. Whatever you say Hurry up and get on the car Shen Luo From now on, there will be no one like you in my Shen family. I'm here today Only then can I see you clearly Hahaha ha pull over Otherwise I want you now Very hot What happened to the little girl? Uncle, I'm so hot, uncle Um Uncle, have you drunk? Is the little girl Ningjing? I'll throw you out. Uncle, you actually threw me down for Ning Jing Sure enough, I am not Wei Ying in your heart My sweetheart is far away in the sky Close at hand Mumumumu What's wrong with you You went to Shen's house today. What happened? That Do you think of me as the antidote? even so What are you going to do? Pick up the wood Boss I Hello, mom Come back to eat. Uncle, how could it be you? Otherwise, who do you hope it will be? That's not what I meant. I was last night I can't remember clearly I can't remember Then I'll help you recall it. I met you last night I found you tied in the middle of the road I got you back to the car. Just treat me as your sister Then I to you That's right Think about it No, we agreed to separate. I saw the uncle again How to compensate now? Uncle, thank you for your hard work. Have a coffee How are you going to compensate me? I haven't figured it out yet. But don't worry I will definitely not shirk my responsibility. Just don't escape That's right What happened to you in the Shen family? They're selling me to a 50-year-old guy. What Your family sold you out. But they are no longer my relatives. After all, my biological father told me Never treated me as someone else How can there be such a father now? They are unkind Don't blame me. So what are you going to do? Of course, let them get the retribution they deserve. Do you need my help? No, I can handle it myself. But I may need to give you two days off. It doesn't matter With your ability, it's really a waste of talent to stay in the technical department Uncle, you don't need to be so concerned. Of course I was fine when I was a saint. In addition to the technical department Do you have any other important for example Uncle, I have something urgent. I'll tell you when I get back. The position of the president's wife is not more important than the technical department. Boss, the Shen family is really blind. Selling you for money Not to mention the industries you invested in Let's say that Dingsheng Technology migrates everything. You have to know not to scare him to death I was thinking about my mother I never thought of breaking off relations with you. But now He is not worthy of being my father. Has Mr. Wang's money been transferred yet? He wouldn't even refuse to give me 300,000 yuan, right? Never mind. It's just small money. I have already told Shenmu that she is married. I told Miss Lin The Lin family will transfer the investment money soon. Mom, wait till you get the huge sum of money. Remember to give me some I know I can't live without you Who are you? You are trespassing. It is illegal Why is it you, Shenmu? Aren't you supposed to be at Mr. Wang's house? Aren't you supposed to be at Mr. Wang's house? The one with the surname Wang is a well-known pervert. What fell into his hands He should be locked up and beaten every day. How come you run back? Why can't I go back to my own home? Come back if you want What's the point of bringing so many people with you? What are you so scared of? Why didn't I see you so scared when you sold your daughter? I'm not selling my daughter I am marrying you to Mr. Wang Let you live a good life It's a good day, then why don't you let Shen Meng go? Because you know that Mr. Wang is a pregnancy freak is a pervert You married me to him because you wanted me to die in his hands. Aren't you living well now? Shen Jianguo You are such a despicable and shameless person. I came here today to sever ties with your parents. What? You cut ties with us? Cut it off What's the big deal? He's a piece of trash anyway. I thought I was afraid of you by bringing a few people here to bluff. You're just a piece of trash. I've wanted to sever your father-daughter relationship with you for a long time. waste Do you know who he is? He has lived with us for more than 20 years. Can we not know who he is? It's you. Could it be that he found a new sponsor? No wonder Mr. Wang refused to ask. It turns out that he doesn't get along with the sponsor. What sponsor? You ignorant ants He is my boss. It is the dream of the world's top companies Top hackers New Enemies He is the founder of Dingsheng Technology I don't know if this is Xindi or not. I have heard of Dingsheng Technology. Hahahaha The boss of Dingsheng Technology Hahahaha are you kidding me? that is Acting should also be done properly Who is the boss of Dingsheng Technology? Hey, I know Qin Fei, right? I went to Dingsheng Technology to shoot an advertisement They said Mr. Qin is still a handsome young man. Now you can check it online. What does this Qin Fei look like? Check it, just check it with me How do you pretend to be me? Are you really Mr. Qin? I manage this company for the boss. Chen Mu is the real founder of Dingsheng Technology Shenmu, he is really a rich man Okay, no need Get these outsiders out of my house. Throw away their luggage as well. What? You can't do this? Don't move. This can't be the case. You can't pull him. This can't be done Hey This can't be the case. don't want Oh no Why do you throw other people's things around? This house was left to me by my mother. It has nothing to do with you now. Then you are not qualified to live here. From now on, you will die on your own Uncle I am your real father. You can't do this to me You kicked your parents out of the house. Aren't you afraid of being struck by lightning? I think it's you who are going to be struck by lightning. Want me to marry a 50-year-old pervert Your retribution has just begun I wonder if the little girl's matter has been settled. Is there any danger again? boss Miss Lin is here Why is she here? I won't go in. She said she has something important to tell you. It seems to be related to Mrs. About Mumu Let her in good ten years I knew you wouldn't miss me Our love for so many years You won't forget it just like that. Although our two families have lost contact for many years But I seem to have only really gotten to know Shen Yan recently. What do you mean? All this I did was for you For me yes Shen Mu is not worthy of your liking at all. Don't you know it very well yourself? Otherwise, why would he leave the Liu family and remarry? remarry What experiments have you done? Don't you know yet? Chen Mu, he married a husband in his 50s last night What you said is true I also heard from the Shen family So there will definitely be no dummies in this matter. It turns out it's really you young I didn't expect you to have so much evil in your body Yeah, what do you mean? Is it you It's just the medicine that the Shen family gave us. It's not me what you are talking about How is that possible? If it weren't for you How could the Shen family tell you all this? tell you the truth Mumu and I stayed together last night So your plan is not completed impossible You must be saying this to protect Shen Mu. Do you believe it or not? I was originally concerned about the intersection between our two families. Don't plan to do that I, Lu Zhi, will completely give up these for him and your neighbor. Quartz, you can't do this. If you withdraw your investment Then our Lin family will really have no way out. That's your own fault. Quartz I beg you Please forgive me for our years of friendship. How can you forgive me? I'm not the one you should ask. Is it you who you should ask for most? What How is grandma doing lately? How do you feel? There's no discomfort yet. All good Every day I see you I am comfortable True or false Don't lie to me It's true Why don't you wear the bracelet your grandma gave you? Don't you like it? No, I don't dislike it. It's just too expensive to wear. Just put it at home It's not about whether it's valuable or not. This is passed down from the Lu family. You are now our Lu family's future granddaughter-in-law. No one dares to bully you in the Lu family Grandma, no matter what happens in the future You are always my dearest Even if I separate from my uncle My grandmother is also my relative. Oh, this silly child I won't even say happy words. We are a family. This is you and Shi Yan. Have a baby soon so that grandma can take care of it I hope I can have a great-grandson soon. grandmother Sister-in-law, the sun rose from the west today This Lu Yingying actually took the initiative to greet me You every day Find something to do in a non-serious way Where are you fooling around? No grandma I went to study today I haven't finished the classes I signed up for before. I will try my best to finish it real Um You are so self-aware Why doesn't grandma believe it? I can't be too much worse than others. Good to know Unlearned and unskilled It's a disgrace to our Lu family. oops I see Grandma That's right It seems that my parents' European tour ended early. Yes, he said he would be home in the next two days. What uncle's parents are coming back? Hum, they still know how to come back Since the company was handed over to your brother They were traveling around How can you be a parent like this? You are right Wait for them to come back You must scold them. Oh, I have something else. Go back to the room first sister in law I'll go upstairs first. Why is Lu Yingying suddenly so hard on me? So corny What a lousy place this is. Is this a place where people live? Oh, you should be content. How much money do we have in our pockets? It's nice to have a place to live This girl is so rich Let us live this life Do you think he's the only one who can make a lot of money? Even in my dream, I can make a lot of money Mengmeng Isn't it your skin? I'm not yet But I will soon what do you mean I'm at work recently Met a foreign financial tycoon He has his own way of making money You can make me a lot of money Hehe, it's true or false Have you met a liar? Why do you believe that Shen Mu can make a lot of money? You don't believe that Chen Mu can make a lot of money, do you? From childhood to adulthood, in what way am I not better than him? Hey Mengmeng Then how can he help you make a lot of money? Investment requires principal dad Anyway, our business is not doing well. Sell the company Take this money and invest it You will be able to make a lot of money soon. You believe me this this this this Selling the company I just invested all my funds into the company. You said I sold it now That's a loss of life. dad You need to keep your eyes Take the long view I finally met a Bole Willing to help me make a lot of money Missed this opportunity There really won't be any chance anymore. Don't you want to be richer than that Shenmu? Ah good Mengmeng Dad believes in you We must make a lot of money When the time comes, Chenmu's company will be acquired. I see how arrogant he is snort The eldest Shen family sold the company The company was sold so quickly Shen Meng had no doubt about the foreigner And he plans to take the money from selling the company Use it all to invest in that gringo Have you found the information? Oh, I found it He packed it well. He really looks like a wealthy businessman. But he is a complete liar. He deceived many people And there is a wanted warrant in his own country. So they came to our country to cheat people. I know this No one of you is allowed to interfere. I want them to know what evil is. yes OK You have severed ties with them. We will never interfere. I said why didn't you reply my message? We're on a date here. Dating Uncle, you misunderstood. My phone is out of battery. I didn't see your message Uncle Mr. Lu is very old. I am old You don't look small. Which year? I was born in 1991 The one born in 1991 is quite big. I was born in 1990 and I am one year older than you. Why do you compare your age at 20? That's too childish. How does he usually call you? Call me Xiaoqin You call him Xiaoqin Call me uncle What a double standard! Uh, maybe it's because you look older, Mr. Lu. I look old. Who don't you see look young? Won't you get old? You are also in your 30s I was wrong I was wrong Uh, what is that? I have something else to do I'm leaving first Xiaoqin, I really pinched you You have to give me an explanation today. I am very old How come? Uncle, you are recognized as a handsome guy by thousands of girls in Beijing. That's a great value Why do you call me uncle? Call him Xiaoqin Not an uncle If you don't want me to call you, then don't call me anymore. It's not impossible to change it So how are you going to call me from now on? Yeah, OK Little girl, I think you are in trouble again. Uncle, in broad daylight Don't you shake it? Forget it. I came to see you today because I have something serious to discuss. What business? My dad is already home. He wants to see you. See your parents do I'm not ready yet The ugly daughter-in-law also has to meet her parents-in-law Besides, you're not ugly, so what are you afraid of? Our marriage is a fake. Don't do the whole thing If you have someone in your heart I won't force you. I have someone in my heart What are you talking about? Why can't I understand? You know it yourself Please help me find out what's wrong. There's nothing wrong My parents have good personalities Just rest assured But not so many But my parents are not monsters. I won't eat you. You remember You have to accept whatever they give you later. No, no. Know how to go This is my daughter-in-law, right? You are so beautiful. Sit down quickly. Come on, sit down. Silently, I am the mother of Shiyan He is Shiyan's father. Mom and Dad, you are all good. I didn't expect that we would travel to Europe. Come back and you will have it Daughter-in-law, you don't know Shiyan has never had a girlfriend in these years I almost thought he didn't like women. mom What nonsense are you talking about? Where did I say nonsense? How many years have we been urging you to get married? You have been We were almost dying of anxiety when we didn't bring a partner home. It seems so It was not fate before You see, as soon as I met you, I achieved success. Mumu, we have been traveling in Europe before. I missed your wedding too. This is my compensation to you. There are 1 billion in it. You bet it's written One shot is 1 billion 10 yuan, my parents are so nice. And me? Your father doesn't have much private money. The amount given is too little. Here I have 10 billion. You have collected it Don't let the 10 yuan stinky boy waste it Let's not do 10 billion. What kind of fairy in-laws are these? Thank you mom Hahaha Sister Lin Jing, why is she here? What is he doing here? Uncle and Aunt I heard you just came back from a trip to Europe. I came to see you guys specially. Got it? Please give my regards to your parents too. Jill, let's go. I'm a little sleepy now Go up and take a nap Yeah, good mom Grandma, I'll take you to rest. Good Mom and Dad, I'll go upstairs and change my clothes too. I'll accompany you, okay? Shi Yan Okay, Xiaojing. Shi Yan is now a married woman Of course, my wife is the most important. We'll just talk to you. Lu Shiyan, your parents and uncle are so generous. Ten billion at a time This is the first time I've seen so much money You are their designated daughter-in-law. Nature gives more Here you go Since I gave it to you Just accept it Enough I don't want this I don't need this money. I'm giving it to you, just accept it. If you accept it, the murderer will call What did I do wrong? Tell me you changed You didn't do badly. Everything is done well Why do you ask this? Why don't you like me? never mind Feelings can't be forced. What are you looking at me for? Do you want to change clothes? ah What did I do wrong? tell me change You didn't do badly. Everything is done well Why do you ask this? Anywhere is good Why don't you like me? When did I say I didn't miss you? It's obviously him The Lu family is very nice to me. I want to stay here too. Forget it. I'm just being sentimental He walks only in peace I just can't figure it out How is that Qin better than me? Who can make me I see Come to the company immediately Pack that person? They all went to rest. OK Xiaomu, stop. Did You Know Everything you have now is mine You said yours is your Lu family My family and the Lu family are aristocratic families. Shi Yan and I have been a couple since childhood You are a wild girl who came out of nowhere. Why do you occupy my position? You said I took your place Then you have to take this seat first. As far as I know Lu Shiyan has never brought a girlfriend home since she was a child. So no matter how long you have known each other Just ordinary friends But Shi Yan wanted to marry me. At first it was at first now is now Now I am Luffy Do you dare to fly? What's going on? It was Shen Mu who harmed me You blame me for not coming to the Lu family Shouldn't have come to pick you up He was afraid that I would steal the experiment no Why do you always use such dirty and despicable methods? Look at Chen Mu he pushed me He has no intention of apologizing at all. Uncle, you have to make the decision for me. Uncle, I'm in so much pain. What is he trying to hurt me? He wants to harm me Enough of that. Stop acting. It was you who fell down. You want to frame me? Sister-in-law, why are you so shameless? I was just behind I can see everything that happens here clearly. It was Lin Jing who wanted to beat up her sister-in-law My sister-in-law stopped him As a result, he fell down and framed It was my sister-in-law who pushed him So this is what happened Xiaojing, how can you lie? Yingying, you shouldn't speak for me. How can you speak for him? I was blind before I didn't see your true face You are not worthy of being my sister-in-law. What is my brother's flirt? have no idea He must have bribed you. You're the one helping him, right? Okay, since you fell down by yourself. Just get up and leave my house. Xiaojing, what you did We heard about it before we got home. You later Don't come to the Lu family again. Our Lu family and your Lin family will not come again. Visitors see a visitor out ah Lu Shiyan actually watched Lin's bankruptcy Doesn't she like Lin Jing? boss Something happened to Shen How did you get cheated? Not only that, he also helped the gringo launder his money. Now the person has been arrested by the police got caught Really low self-esteem Boss, when we were investigating that foreigner Discover The daughter of the recently bankrupt Lin Group was also defrauded And it's a scam for money and sex It turns out that Lin Jing went abroad not with pen and paper Marrying someone else Lin's bankruptcy It's destined The whole family was fooled by a liar Before those shareholders withdrew their capital Lin's is already unstoppable It seems that Lin Jing doesn't love Gu Shiying at all If it wasn't because I was deceived Maybe not necessarily Hello My computer is broken. Come up and fix it. Okay, I'll be right back. Something happened in the company I'm going back first oh You are at least a well-known figure in the economy. Why are you hooking up with someone else's wife? Whose wife did I hook up with? This computer has no virus. Who unplugged the host cable? I have no idea Maybe it was bitten by a rat. That was a 1.8 meter tall rat. It's really not me What is this? Hey, you can't watch this. What can't I see? You can't see my stuff. How about it Shi Yan, you are mistaken. Mr. Qin said he doesn't like his sister-in-law at all ah Really? He has a girlfriend. I also let them do it in front of us Called his girlfriend The two are very loving. There can be no second thoughts how so Shi Yan, there is a misunderstanding between you and your sister-in-law. Why don't you two talk it out and have a good talk about the misunderstanding? The Land Experiment I think there's something you need to know. Lin Jing is not worthy of your love He almost married someone else abroad Not worth my love Wait, when did I ever like Lin Jing? Don't you like him? Girl, listen to me carefully. I never liked him But everyone says you two are a couple. That's what others said. When did I say Then I've been wrong all along. Then I'm going to ask you a serious question. Do you like Qin Fei? I and Lao Qin How is that possible? We are a cooperative relationship. And he has a girlfriend. You know he has a girlfriend. Um We have a good relationship. I really have him That uncle Then I have a question for you too. Do you have someone you like right now? Of course Who is it? Far away Close at hand Me right Shen Mo I like you From the first time I saw you Already in love You haven't asked me if I like it. So who do you like? I like I didn't hear what you said. I said I like Lu Shiye Girl Now I'll see where you run. Love belongs to each of you Come Honey, this is your favorite food. Eat more. You should eat more too Nourish your body You two, It should have been like this a long time ago In the past I thought Shi Yan married a wife to deal with me. I feel relieved by this. How dare grandma deal with you? Isn't this Yingying talking nonsense? Oh, grandma. I know I'm wrong I've already apologized to my sister-in-law. What's wrong, wife? I don't know why I feel I feel like eating is always disgusting lately. nausea nausea Mengmeng, you are pregnant! Pregnant No way So I'm going to be a father? My wife went upstairs to rest. Hello, Dad hurry up Come on, let's drink I I am pregnant Wife, you are awesome. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. How come my husband is so fast? I'm not ready yet Do you think it is better to have a boy or a girl? Well, whether it's a boy or a girl As long as you are born I like them all I dare not say anything casually What if they are twins? Twins No way My sister and aunt should carry me I don't want to come down Brother, come up and play with us. Okay, no worries. No, no, no I can't bear it You two can't go together. Oh, my waist. Carefree What are you doing to your aunt? Mom and Dad Mom and Dad Your Mid-Autumn Festival is over. Yes, mom We are riding on auntie. Horse riding Yingying, are you okay? Sister-in-law, I need extra pocket money Add must add Yeah, I'll add 1 million to your How is it? Really? That's a must When did I lie to you? Right? Yes. Carefree Come here quickly, auntie will continue to be your pony drive Drive, drive, drive