In 1954, the First Indochina War between communist revolutionaries comes to an end In the following Geneva Accords, the US, France, divide Vietnam into two temporary states along the of Vietnam in the North led by Ho Chi Minh, and by former Emperor Bao Dai. The country is supposed The deal is less than Ho Chi Minh hoped. He fought Chinese and Soviet supporters pressure him into further US intervention in Asia. For France, the leave the region. So, the Geneva Accords fundamental concerns of Vietnamese nationalists. it publicly downplayed its involvement as concerned about concessions to the Communists, the Indochina War. Although the US decided CIA pilots flew supplies into the besieged President Eisenhower increases support to the overtones. Despite the planned elections, the US Washington supports the South for one major Ho Chi Minh is a puppet of Soviet Laos, Cambodia, India, Burma, Thailand, the rest follow like tumbling dominoes. the US identifies Bao Dai's Prime Minister, to Ho Chi Minh. Although Diem lacks charisma, and fervently anti-communist. The US hopes democratic reforms and stop communism's spread. State of Vietnam. General Matthew Ridgway, II , strongly opposes the US commitment. in another ideological struggle in Asia, which credentials aren't very reassuring either. referendum, creating the Republic of Vietnam in the vote, raising some eyebrows in Washington. as well as criminal syndicates and militant Around the same time, military advisors The US now pours resources into the US provides a quarter of a billion dollars goes to building South Vietnam's economic base. Army of the Republic of Vietnam, the ARVN. In 1956, Diem replaces traditional village chiefs are thought to harbour communist sympathies, Re-education programmes and slow There is also a security clamp down. By 1958, Saigon has arrested 25,000 people and 90 percent the south. Diem's Decree 10/59 outlaws communist resistance against the French. A "[The Indochinese Communist Party] and sought to turn Vietnam into a colony and the They are Communists, traitors, and agents Diem's security forces, often minority intellectuals and Buddhists, who they Diem makes it clear he will not honour the 1956 Accords, because he claims no free election can but largely because they expect Ho Chi invites Diem to Washington to show support: hate tyranny and love freedom." (Lawrence TVW 59) Ho Chi Minh officially forbids southern Communists on propaganda and building up the north. northern government agents execute around 15,000 subversive elements" . Ho's Commander-in-chief, "We made too many deviations and executed torture came to be regarded as a normal practice Ho now faces pressure to increase military groups are already ignoring his orders increasingly side-lining their own leader. "protracted armed struggle [to] overthrow the fighters and weapons into south via the Ho Chi In 1960, Vietnamese nationalists form the organisation of communists and non-communists, Liberation Armed Forces. Collectively, short form of the words 'Vietnamese Communist' in to differentiate the southern insurgency Army of Vietnam. But practically, the northern Despite this, most of the NLFs members are native Despite their basic equipment, writer Le Ly claims the Viet Cong had an important advantage "In contrast to [the AVRN], the Viet Cong were, not insult us... because they had been raised into a village overburdened with American the Viet Cong made do with what they had and of the people." (Hayslip in Ruane) they step up their sabotage a US intelligence officer and counterinsurgency "[ARVN] in critical condition... [Viet and expect to be done in 1961." (Anderson 35) to Diem. For others in the administration, simply no one else to replace him. However, a John F. Kennedy takes office in 1961 at a volatile Union announces to support all groups fighting a strong message during his inauguration: "Let every nation know, whether it wishes bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any and success of liberty." (Lawrence TVW 68) doctrine, where conventional and covert forces deterrence. His goal is not necessarily to Vietnam can resist the growing insurgency He also brings a new team into the Oval advisors with backgrounds in the military and academia. Perhaps the most influential is Robert his meticulous data-driven management approach asks McNamara to bring the same number-crunching Kennedy's 'Wise Men' encourage him to send more 11,300 of them - more than ten times as many as state from sending military personnel to either technicalities. Officially non-combat personnel, and can theoretically only act in self-defence. are special forces personnel that are technically many also function as helicopter pilots the US sets up camps and barracks across South ARVN continues to do most of the fighting - often join patrols and occasionally become casualties. Military Advisory Command, Vietnam - MACV . hamlets" - specially fortified villages The Americans entice locals into physically and material benefits and better services. By in around 3,000 strategic hamlets. This, patrols and increased airstrikes against the Viet American firepower, the Viet Cong strike back. as US Lt. Col Archie Clapp recalls in 1962: their encircling positions... Eight of the 22 we wanted to know, were we subjected to his heel of an airstrike? We concluded that it was When the airstrike started, the VC grabbed intended helicopter landing sites." (Langer 66) significant victory yet. Around 350 guerillas including repelling flamethrowing armoured helicopters. US advisors are surprised the Viet armoured vehicles and napalm. Meanwhile, despite show poor leadership, and little will to fight. 1963 as religious tensions spike in Saigon. suppress Buddhists , overseen by Diem's brother Vietnamese are nominally or culturally Buddhist, especially army officers, to convert, as "There was tremendous pressure to become Catholic about a lot of secret conversions... and I felt it was dangerous..." (Langer 69) when Buddhist monk Thich Quang Duc burns himself protest, Diem promises to introduce reforms, but the US, Diem's government is now on its last legs. against Diem by army officers. Historians debate don't prevent the coup. Instead, US officials not a specific leader. On November 1, South They execute Diem and his brother in the back likely was not planned. This concerns the will more aggressively take on the Viet Cong. world. On November 22, 1963 President Kennedy is 16,000 advisors are in Vietnam and 100 Lyndon B. Johnson will now lead the war effort. a 'war president'. His passion is domestic reforms a distraction, in both time and resources, an election year, and Johnson's Republican weakness against international communism. He later "... I knew that if we let Communist aggression follow ... an endless national debate... that would and Dean Acheson lost their effectiveness from the knew that all [their] problems, taken together, if we lost Vietnam." (Kearns in Ruane 100/101) follows their advice on Vietnam. Despite he often agrees to their demands for further hamlet programme crumbling under corruption South Vietnamese collapse in 2-3 months. troops but wants to put off the decision he sends more advisors along with a new who prefers firepower and active operations US covert actions are not new - they've been US always maintains plausible deniability, South Vietnamese groups into the North. By 1964, or OPLAN 34A, which consists of commando Although the personnel may be South the raids are planned by MACV's Studies and for the US special forces and covert command. operations known as DESOTO patrols. US destroyers detect North Vietnamese communications and radar the destroyers - supported by aircraft carriers - is not true, but both OPLAN and DESOTO missions although technically separate, DESOTO patrols In July and August 1964, American destroyer on a DESOTO mission. What was planned to be an Vietnam's greatest controversies. 1964 OPLAN patrol boats bombard coastal On August 1, the Maddox enters the area. Its remain outside North Vietnamese waters. But the which North Vietnam considers within their The North Vietnamese navy assumes the American night's bombardment. On August 2, three Vietnamese fires warning shots, then targets the boats. but they miss. During the battle, the Maddox scores only one hit. The encounter increases On August 4, the Maddox re-enters the gulf night is moonless and visibility is poor. The and soon encounter unknown radar contacts. At joins soon after. Sonarmen on both ships report also report seeing their wakes, and enemy ships. and sunk enemy vessels. By 2230 the Maddox makes depth charges and attempts to ram an enemy. but not because the radar contacts disappear. of supposed contacts and torpedoes is reaching the contacts are real and if the Maddox and Turner Nevertheless, reports of a North their way to Washington. Only on August 5, when no does Captain Herrick on the Maddox send denial an attack took place. Captain Barnhart happened. The Joint Chiefs of Staff urgently As messages flurry across the Pacific, and ship sightings. In the following days, both as large as they thought. Meanwhile, McNamara navy messages seemingly planning the attack. at coastal bases in Vinh on August 5. shoot down two US planes and kill 1 pilot. Resolution allowing further retaliation. the president can "repel any armed attack to prevent further aggression". (Tovy 67) resolution and during the discussions, members international waters. Johnson doesn't tell McNamara claims the Maddox was on a routine patrol [ORIGINAL AUDIO - SECRETARY McNAMARA: The those waters, in international waters, when it was to carry out its mission today and will do so for The President has asked that the destroyer force available at all times on call to it and as I in the event of further attack upon our vessels the objective of destroying the attackers." rating remains high and in November, he promises to keep ground troops out of Vietnam. There was certainly an attack on August 2, was no attack on August 4. Instead, the anomalies caused by weather, crew stress, According to the Maddox logs, they identified 25 But the North Vietnamese navy only has after the first attack - and each boat only frequent change in direction probably sounded like Furthermore, if an attack did take place, the propaganda value, but they deny it ever are probably poorly translated and refer to Some historians have suggested the US deliberately issue is still debated, but most historians evidence was misrepresented, and Johnson knew the he went to Congress , but he had already made intention to respond, even if in a limited way. determination all Americans to carry and the government of South Vietnam will be for the present, will be limited and fitting." but he's reluctant to use it. US planners draw up they don't use them right away. Instead, US planes This changes in early 1965. On February 7, Viet Holloway, killing 8 Americans and destroying a northern bomb attack at another "We have kept our gun over the mantel and our what was the result? They are killing our boys On February 24, US aircraft attack North 19th Parallel. This soon develops a sustained bombing campaign designed to North Vietnam into abandoning the Viet Cong. the air, they need regular ground like the one at Da Nang. On March 8 1965, two presence only provokes more Viet Cong attacks. activities. North Vietnam increases infiltrations, 17th Parallel. The Soviet Union and China, now send anti-aircraft weapons to the North. turmoil. Since Diem's death there have been leaders. US Assistant Secretary of Defence generals Nguyen Van Thieu and Nguyen Cao Ky Westmoreland also concludes the ARVN can't hold more American troops are needed. By on the ground. Johnson agrees to send So why did the US get further and further Communist expansion is perhaps the primary but American leaders felt it needed to be crystal clear in a secret US memorandum in 1965: friend' but to contain China." (Thee 119) a nation the US had publicly pledged to a personal one for Johnson. With Kennedy's he felt compelled to follow his commitment considered withdrawal before his assassination. administration fell communist success until 1965 and the weakness of France and South Vietnam. Now would, or so they thought, soon change. American commanders had little regard for was largely due to their disappointment with commanders then expected from all Vietnamese. McNamara, place great faith in the military power combined with his analytical approach could There's little discussion about That's not to say everyone in the administration George Ball consistently denies victory is Cong has a strength equal - if not superior Chief of Mission in Saigon, tells Washington: which is disciplined, ideologically the desires of the peasantry and of The American GIs arriving in Vietnam would soon In 1965, tens of thousands of US troops are bombers, helicopters and napalm, many expect the unstoppable US firepower. Instead, in the jungles combat is an exhausting slog in which casualties In summer 1965, 50,000 US troops arrived in Command Vietnam, MACV. The USA hopes American North Vietnam to abandon its support of the Viet Vietnamese government. Still, the US approach will the US has already been secretly bombing North and in 1965 North Vietnam is hit as Still, the US mostly hits secondary targets - negotiate an agreement beneficial to the South. not aiming for traditional territorial or total victory over his allies in the South. can take place while foreign And so, it seems combat, not compromise, will Westmoreland needs to develop a strategy a low cost for the US - politically since political considerations mean his ground war Johnson rules out any kind of conventional provoke Chinese intervention, as it did during Ho Chi Minh trail in Laos and Cambodia since though, will make it harder for The American debate settles on two possible combat operations, or counterinsurgency focused pacification of the South Vietnamese public. its supporters, Westmoreland believes it the initiative. Instead, he hopes to make use of strategy of annihilation. He plans to take in large unit set piece battles, and cause such insurgency. It's a rapid attritional strategy. need to hold ground, but will carry out [ORIGINAL AUDIO US MARINE COMMENTATES SEARCH] house by house, village by village, as we houses some of the Vietnamese families. age men that may possibly be VC. So far all we It's a plan with an institutional shift in the McNamara, the DoD adopts new statistical and the world of business. Everything about the war when North Vietnam reaches the critical "tipping Analysts and officers count everything from bomb metric is the 'body count' of North Vietnamese US won't judge progress by territory captured in count will form the basis for analysing success. to aim for higher kill and capture counts as The American kill count strategy expands the since now, they are to go on offensive patrols they'll be doing it with new firepower. US troops identify a Viet Cong formation via insert ground troops to pin the enemy down. As the US troops call-in airstrikes and Similar operations had previously been carried failed because the South Vietnamese as opposed to a problem with the actual tactics. tools, vehicles and weapons. From 1964, rifle to replace the 7.62mm M14. The but the US military claims the M16 is lighter, with more ammunition - all important features resupply harder . Coupled with the M60 machine gun expect to bring heavy firepower against the important asset in a platoon is the radio, which With much of South Vietnam consisting of ground transport is slow to impossible. boats and hovercrafts navigate the rivers, while provide unprecedented mobility. In particular, cumbersome Shawnee to become the iconic vehicle extractions, medical evacuations, resupply and helicopter sorties flown during the war are F-4 Phantom and A-4 Skyhawk, also arrive to with napalm and white phosphorous , while the can provide overhead cover for hours at a time. During the Battle of Ia Drang in November 1965, North Vietnamese regulars entering from Cambodia. at landing zones, US firepower pushes them back, Although most of the NVA escapes, the US 1st seemingly confirming air assault At first, the helicopters also have Vietnamese troops, as North Vietnamese "...when helicopters spotted us, we had to when a helicopter dropped down especially gunner. That was the first time I ever it in my nightmares." (Appy Patriots 216) have prevented a South Vietnamese collapse Viet Cong also adapt, and fight back. North Vietnamese army and Viet Cong to partly due to practical considerations, political situation. North Vietnamese General in Vietnam is undermined by a lack of "[We] can fight a protracted war, while the send 300,000 to 400,00 troops at once, Because of fear of protracted war, and even and the world's people..." (Ruane 110) in the south and employ strategies which had Osmanski summarized on Viet Cong tactics: spike-traps, poisoned darts, and even their physical endurance, patience, for they have been known to live in dark tunnels by breathing through hollow reeds, and to lie Sniping, mines and booby traps become the prioritize mines since they maim just as often The Viet Cong also become experts at launching and radiomen to prevent air support being These tactics are aided by simplified as less as five kilograms of equipment in combat, Vietnamese can also draw on local supplies from they can blend into the local civilian who can perform labour, set mines, or collect Vast networks of tunnels, some even under US their personnel and equipment from US firepower. Army of Vietnam, also known as the North regimentation, propaganda and conscription, Chinese equipment. Soon NVA units can claim to AK-47 automatic rifle, RPD machinegun, and rocket armed with WWII-era weapons, but also receive The Soviet Union and China also provide protection anti-aircraft systems and fighter jets, such as Chao recalls one advantage he had over US pilots: scared of any type of American aircraft. The any battle... part of my confidence came from landing in my own country." (Appy Patriots 214) when the situation favours them. As a result, through patience and surprise. In fact, although combat in Vietnam is decidedly low tech. are expensive and valuable targets for the the North Vietnamese become skilled at shooting moments. Their loud rotors make surprise at landing zones with RPGs or heavy machine guns: the entire tree line erupted with small the hillside north of the LZ, pouring lethal smashing into the plexiglass cockpits... One bird the rotor blades still whirring as they The US loses around 5,000 helicopters To reduce the risk, helicopters drop off US sometimes multi-week patrols in the jungle In these conditions, the Viet Cong are only one disease, exhaustion and dehydration affect US experiencing enemy contact, mines and booby account for about a quarter of all casualties "It's an absurd combination of certainly and in mine fields, walking past things day after of which way to shift your weight, When there is contact, the Viet Cong almost report suggesting the North Vietnamese initiate skilled at predicting air support response times so close that air support threatens US troops casualties are from friendly fire. "As you come into the village you always we invariably take casualties once in a while. villages, these VC are gone, and it makes it US weapons also struggle in the jungle study records 10.5 malfunctions per 1,000 rounds materials were sensitive to variations many US soldiers who arrive early on had no prior Eventually the Pentagon introduces modifications, maintenance training. By 1968 the M16's malfunctions per 1,000 rounds, with the to 0.32. Still, its early reputation The M60 machine-gun also has its supporters its versatility and morale-building firepower - note its reliability quickly declines through wear Its high rate of fire also requires riflemen Overall, this mixture of combat stress, fight back creates frustration among US soldiers: and nothin', just nothin'. Then, the get hit and Victor Charlie fades into the jungle US troops in Vietnam are also under many draftees - essentially conscripts Few of the American newcomers transfer to as individuals or in small groups . High officer beyond their contracted tour of duty means combat The stresses of combat, an elusive enemy, and excuse - how cases of American violence against continues, civilians suffer increasing violence, and accidental, at the hands of US, ARVN and - from locals leads some US GIs to conclude this is true - even a South Vietnamese government residents of South Vietnam support the insurgency. in the war, and promotes indifference Phillip Caputo is one who lost hope: paddies... we carried, along with our packs we were doing something altogether noble the convictions, we lost." (Caputo) from anger at casualties, but also frustration State Department's Daniel Ellsberg joins a "Their desire to burn the house was in part reflected the fact that they honestly South Vietnamese civilians also experience war in 1965 weakens support for the VC, so they get recruits, supplies, and intelligence. Civilian political accusations and denunciations. Le is attacked by the Viet Cong when her "After a while, our fear of the Viet fear of the republicans. If the republicans the Viet Cong were like snakes who came at us coming and get out of the way." ( Langer 198/109) the ground mean that by 1967 the war is a on their terms, they cause high casualties, but North Vietnam is also carrying out a strategy But Westmoreland doesn't think North Vietnam progress. By 1967 there are 485,600 US troops in [ORIGINAL AUDIO WESTMORELAND] not stalemated, we are making steady progress, we've got a long way to go but progress are sufficient men in Vietnam now to not lose the I think we would accelerate our progress." in early 1967 seem to confirm Westmoreland's insurgents in Operations Cedar Falls and Junction than 242,000 Viet Cong fighters left in the MACV's figures are almost entirely wrong. for success, US commanders inflate the eager to show progress or ability post high Cong according to a blunt unspoken rule: The focus on quantifiable data means concepts that support and opinions of locals, are sidelined, in mentality. But this attitude ignores vital operations, and applies clumsy numerical The US approach is also based on their estimations consistently underestimates how North Vietnam can of the conflict as a total people's war who are critical of the statistical enemy in South Vietnam in 1967 with 200,000 Additionally, US bombing has not brought 59 percent of power stations and 75 percent little impact on a majority agrarian society and and dangerous. More sophisticated anti-aircraft by bombing in 1967, the US pays $9.50. body count is having a negative impact support the war and international opinion is and Japan, many people are publicly lauding In late 1967, Westmoreland and Johnson US to convince the people of their successes "The ranks of the Viet Cong are thinning... The The first months of 1968 will At the end of 1967, the war in Vietnam is firepower to seek out and destroy the enemy, guerilla operations in South Vietnam - often The result is high casualties for both sides and US commander William Westmoreland sees it to tell the public his strategy is working, and Although Westmoreland is overly optimistic, communist government. Some leaders - since cost in lives and infrastructure and want Hanoi 'hawks', like General Secretary of the Communist Meanwhile, North Vietnamese founder Ho Chi has been chronically ill since at least 1964 and Vietnamese colonel and future dissident Bui introducing democratic reforms, allowing the By 1967 the Soviet Union replaces China as North weapons. However, Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev giving the North Vietnamese 'doves' a temporary arrest political opponents and journalists , often the hawks prepare for a new major offensive which units attacking cities and towns across North Vietnam hopes a surprise attack on urban Saigon government, destroy a major part of pressure the US to end its support for the South. therefore the bulk of the fighting is more valuable regular North Vietnamese From October 1967, military preparations begin positions, including the combat base at Khe Sanh. another Dien Bien Phu-style attack, but others 1954, the North Vietnamese aim to draw US and US troops are relocated. Although North Westmoreland reinforces Khe Sanh and thins And so at the end of January 1968, both Lunar Holiday. Traditionally, this is a time Viet Cong and NVA troops infiltrate towns and Since it was common for farmers to enter presence of unknown individuals with cargo is not US Lt Colonel John E. Barr later recalled. civilian clothes; unusual in that most by the ARVN or off in the hills with the Viet for local farmers to come into Hue to celebrate my subsequent regret." (Shulimson 166) of North Vietnamese units but doesn't understand around 84,000 troops are waiting for At midnight on January 30, North Vietnam launches five of the six major cities in South 64 district capitals are under attack. Tuan Division attacks a US Marine base near Cam Lo: to the American perimeter. [...]... First we fired dynamite that blasted holes in the perimeter... signal our troops to advance. All four hundred Attack!'" (Appy Patriots 302/303) Cong sappers blow a hole in the US Embassy with automatic weapons and rocket launchers, they but fail. US diplomat Barry Zorthian calls Colonel "[George] said that the VC sappers had penetrated There was shooting outside on his side of the and occasional bursts of gunfire. As far as he a pistol and after we hung up he shot one of the Jacobson kills the last Viet Cong sapper, ending radio station and Presidential Palace also fail. quickly reorganise and stage an effective impressed with ARVN, which stands its ground US and ARVN troops reverse most Viet Cong and NVA The old imperial capital of Hue boasts century fortifications, but the city soon Hue had seen little fighting until 1968, near the North-South border at the 17th Parallel. modern city and north-western citadel, it hospital and government buildings. Quang Truong receives word an attack is but many are on leave for Tet. Still, he assumes Little does he know, the NVA 4th, 5th and 6th already surrounded Hue and infiltrated sappers and "The enemy knew nothing of our strategy; by the enemy still had not taken any specific Their job is to open the city gates the most important of which are the Mang Ca ARVN Landing Craft Utility loading ramp, radio At 02:33 am on January 31, a flare marks the start guards and let around 7500 troops into Hue. put up improvised defence, especially heavy fighting across the area, but the ARVN In the modern city, the small garrison at the MACV by daybreak the NVA controls around 60% of Hue. reinforcements as the full scale of the attack Mang Ca, but grounds relief columns are badly Marines from Task Force X-Ray are also on their 1st and 5th Marine Regiments. But as they approach "Enemy soldiers dug in close by on either side and on rooftops, let loose a withering convoy with the force of a sledgehammer small-arms, rockets, recoilless rifles, mortars, The US column needs the help of M48 tanks to push around 3.15 pm. Commanders immediately task to relieve the ARVN in the Citadel, but there is little fire support. Lieutenant "We proceeded to the MACV compound stupid idiotic mission..." (Shulimson 173) under heavy fire from the citadel walls. Realising using commandeered vehicles to evacuate the is killed or wounded in the failed attack. are surrounded by mostly regular NVA and the NVA is already preparing to create a it will be a battle from the inside out. city's provincial headquarters and prison - there they will also need to fight through the stall less than one block from the compound. citadel and eventually retakes the airfield, also allows for supplies and reinforcements Marine convoys known as Rough Riders run the The fighting now turns into a street-by-street, operations is around 11 blocks by 8 blocks wide through. Commanders lack correctly scaled maps air support. Marine William Ehrhart recalls: and the on-the-job training cost us heavily. fighting. If you saw or heard - or thought you you didn't stop to knock; you just Both sides quickly find rockets to open walls and gain new points of entry. a two-hour firefight fought almost purely "...hundreds and hundreds of rockets going out... more ammunition than they had." (Shulimson 188) the ruined city streets. When used offensively, before the inevitable onslaught of North 106mm recoilless rifle effective for demolitions on the M50 "Ontos" light anti-tank vehicle. having captured the university and public the Marines use tear gas, which proves effective Once the Treasury is cleared , the aim is and provincial headquarters. Using teargas, Marines push the NVA out of the hospital and Marine attack targets the stadium to the east of thinning his forces for potential withdrawal. headquarters. Using the newly learned tactics, again using tear gas in a room-to-room struggle. day, the Americans raise the US flag over the to regulations that it must always be flown The Provincial Headquarters was initially proves much more important. It was the which now begins to collapse. By February but the battle is still raging in the citadel. clearing out much of the northwestern corner of February 6-7, the NVA counterattack, using wall and forcing ARVN troops back to the airfield. US 1st Cavalry Airmobile Division is struggling. and reinforcements from the now helicopter-borne forces in outskirt villages and only tentatively From February 10, reinforcements from the 5th 13th, they expect to launch an attack from ARVN even arrive, they come under heavy NVA attack : loose. There was no Airborne was up to their armpits in NVA." (Shulimson 199) stop the attack 75 meters behind its start again with massive supporting fire, including from one of the citadel's fortified gates. But the flat hits the exterior walls. The Marines bog down from both the palace and outer citadel walls. as well as permission to fire into American shells partly collapse the tower, shattered fortifications. The Marines finally Meanwhile, the ARVN airborne and Marines take ground. Once again they use tear gas and On February 22, the fighting enters the heart of wall. By this point, the 1st Cavalry have been infiltration and exfiltration of fighters. in tactics. Both US and ARVN Marines launch night shaking up the established schedule of combat. positions, many are taken by surprise and the Marines and ARVN clear the palace and raising their flags on Hue's flag tower. The Hue battle costs around 200 US KIA, mostly are about 450 killed and missing and 2,100 is difficult, but estimates suggest between 2,500 80% of buildings in the city are around 116,000 are homeless. Civilian deaths are The Americans also accuse the NVA of targeted 3,000 bodies uncovered from hastily dug graves. civilians killed in the fighting - often by With the battle of Hue over, one of the toughest The NVA and VC are unable to hold any of Tet Offensive still becomes seen as a US defeat. the final gamble of a near-defeated enemy. US and ARVN dead as superficial and claims Others disagree. The fact North Vietnam was able indicates the US strategy in Vietnam is North Vietnam delivered a shocking blow and General Harold K. Johnson wrote: no doubt about it." (Langer 176) Johnson administration. They had been preparing and yet the Tet Offensive shows the war is far of a Viet Cong fighter on the streets of the regime US troops are fighting and dying for. before Tet but was by no means the majority, and protests go beyond the usual anti-war, student or class professionals, religious groups and Vietnam Americans now believe intervention was a mistake. turn against the war. Despite encouraging they now overwhelmingly call for "...McGeorge Bundy [said to the] President... begin to de-escalate and get out.' And this anything of this kind, he could barely believe his Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, the reached this point. Throughout 1967 he became in opposition to the other Wise Men. In November, February 1968. His successor Clifford Clarke soon The result is a crisis of leadership an additional 206,000 troops for Vietnam. Johnson causing an uproar. Instead, with pressure On March 31 1968, Johnson announces he will limit open negotiations with the Northern government. [ORIGINAL AUDIO JOHNSON] and I will not accept, the nomination of my In reality, Johnson knows his legacy is in primary and the war costs $2 billion a month time or resources for his beloved domestic "I don't give a damn about the election. right and lose the election... I will have will go down the drain." (Anderson 69) to talks, but makes it clear they want as the victor of the Tet offensive. on the ground? And why, if the US caused higher is the battle often viewed as a US defeat? for Hanoi. It shows the cities of South Vietnam there are no mass defections from ARVN. The suffers huge losses and exposes many of its while skilled at ambushes and guerilla fighting, ground. Some historians even suggest the Tet influence of the southern insurgency and bring it there is little solid evidence for this. success, since it creates political shockwaves in is not prepared for how intense the Vietnam war to insulate them from the conflict. Although North Vietnamese strategists do recognise public don't suffer from themselves. The Tet so-called Kinetic Battlespace, but weakening the is a defeat in the Idea Battlespace. largely supported or believed now becomes more critical. V eteran news anchor "What the hell is going on? I thought we Meanwhile, North Vietnamese ideologists weave of revolution. State control, propaganda, and the North Vietnamese to expect high "The North will not count 1968 is the US's bloodiest year of the war, with the North launches more offensives - the but so does the US, with around 400 500,000 US troops are in Vietnam and as troop have direct or indirect experience of the All this erodes American public will, a Prussian military theorist Carl von Clausewitz between the Trinity - the State, the Army and the strong - because of government regimentation, aspirations. Meanwhile, as the 1968 US By late 1968, the chaos of the Vietnam Wars spills political assassinations, and an energetic low morale and drug abuse are causing discipline Fresh presidential elections mean the potential US troops can leave Vietnam, the war in the air, and to the streets of Hanoi. in the White House. President Lyndon B. his own party and refuses to campaign for a from former advisors and party opposition. His critical of his Vietnam policies and both in Vietnam as key to electoral success. He replaces General William Westmoreland, with General Creighton Abrams. Throughout late North Vietnamese with operations like Toan enemy troops. However, Abrams also emphasises targeting Viet Cong figures over big offensives. the polls. Meanwhile, Republican candidate Richard but leaves the details deliberately vague. "First priority foreign policy objective of an honorable end to the war in Vietnam." over Humphrey in the coming election. Despite the President helps Humphrey's [JOHNSON Original Audio]: naval, and artillery bombardment of North Friday morning. I have reached this decision talks. And I have reached it in the belief a peaceful settlement of the Vietnamese war." the US will stop bombing North Vietnam and Vietnamese governments. The Democrats receive a Nixon's team are in secret contact with South him more support under a Republican Democrats' plan. Just before voting starts, meaningful negotiations and undermining Humphrey. election. The Republicans Nixon's priorities in 1969 are to end the the international Cold War. However, US global prestige, so Nixon plans to Firstly, he will withdraw US troops to while the South Vietnamese ARVN policy known as 'Vietnamisation'. The US and accept US demands for Northern Nixon will rely on international political Nixon develops the "mad man theory", as a fiery anti-communist. Using overt, North Vietnam, as he confides to an aide: reached the point where I might to anything to 'for God's sake, you know Nixon is obsessed he's angry - and he has his hand on the nuclear in two days begging for peace." (Anderson 87) and he secretly bombs North Vietnamese depots Secretary of State Henry Kissinger supports and a preference for direct, individual action. North Vietnam , but also makes it clear to Nixon "In Saigon the tendency is to fight the war to I know it won't happen - it's impossible. And pressure is mounting in North Vietnam. Some leaders like Le Duan believe more military However, the Tet Offensive cost the North dearly. years before they can mount another offensive. For whom have been fighting for over 10 years, the "It began to seem like an open pit. There generation of army-age North Vietnamese and they sang songs about it - 'Born in the The death of North Vietnamese founder Ho Chi although he had stepped back Meanwhile, Nixon's policies are having an is underway, from 475,000 in 1969 to 334,000 in boosts his popularity and decreases protests. FBI and IRS to covertly monitor As US troops withdraw, the ARVN takes up more South Vietnamese army is one of the strongest and Under Nixon, ARVN expands to one million men by equipment, they are now equipped to US standards, guns. Their air force becomes the fourth largest mostly Huey helicopters but also attack aircraft But ARVN struggles to translate this material incredibly corrupt, with some officers filling extra pay. There is also little technical expansion of the armed forces also which is already buckling under a refugee crisis. 1970 - contributes to around 120,000 soldiers also struggle with a crisis of morale: some members of their family were on the other own blood brother is there. And fighting against knew they were fighting against other Vietnamese foreigners. So in our hearts we had sympathy Still, Vietnamisation is popular in the US, In neighbouring Cambodia, pro-US General Lon Nol Sihanouk was officially neutral in the Vietnam establishing bases in border regions. On April 80,000 ARVN and US troops move into including the elusive Central Office for South The operation, which is joined by Lon Nol's with large amounts of weaponry captured. and withdraw further into Cambodia, taking them. The US-ARVN attack fails to capture any Firstly, it pushes North Vietnamese forces communists of the Khmer Rouge - with devastating reignites public opposition to the war in the campuses. At Kent State and Jackson State protestors, killing 6 and wounding 21. asking the so-called "Silent Majority" not his approval rates are still high, with 59% is dissent within the government and Senate. Nixon and senators from both parties attempt to force George McGovern gives an emotional address: responsible for sending 50,000 This Chamber reeks of blood." (Daddis 166) Kissinger react by increasing covert surveillance and further centralising decision making But dissent and disenchantment are not the discipline, combat efficiency Although ARVN is doing more fighting, US that it's clear US troops will be withdrawn, and die in Vietnam . In some cases, a lack of especially troops on leave, increases to 70 out harder to justify the loss of a comrade. what made me desert. I could think of no good why any GIs should die in Vietnam." (Longley 147) "search and evade" missions. They find deliberately avoid contact with the enemy. those who remain lack purpose, and drug use of enlisted men try heroin with 20% addicted marijuana, and LSD, although usually away use methamphetamines or cocaine to stay alert "I've got white shirts all over the detox specialists, rehab people... Is this a are afraid to lead their men into battle, happened?" (Appy Vietnam Oral 395) "fragging" - deliberately targeting their Officers may be "fragged" for several or attempting to limit drug use, and the between 1969 and 1972, with 86 deaths. Others especially when mysterious deaths in the field as 1,000 US officers and NCOs killed in fragging likely remain unknown. (Longley, Grunts) are also replicated in Vietnam. Commanders but racial tensions are harder to control. in battle, friction boils over on bases. This is Luther King, who was a vocal critic of the war: them 8,000 miles away to guarantee liberties Southwest Georgia and East Harlem. So we have been Negro and white boys on TV screens as they kill to seat them together in the same schools." Following his death, American troops Back in the US, some Vietnam veterans are have joined Vietnam Veterans Against the War , "Someone has to die so that President 'the first President to lose a war.' We are how do you ask a man to be the last man to die man to die for a mistake?" (Anderson 98) fully Vietnamised. US troop levels are pacification and targeting North Vietnamese In February, commanders send ARVN across attack. Operation LAMSON 719 aims to capture a disrupt North Vietnamese offensives. Congressional although aircraft will provide support. But Army counterattacks the 15,000 strong ARVN triggering a chaotic rout back into Vietnam. with 150 vehicles abandoned, including tanks. troubles in the US. In March, US courts sentence for his role in the 1968 My Lai Massacre , 500 South Vietnamese civilians, including 173 one poll showing 65% of respondents are not the conviction, Nixon orders Calley into Next, in June 1971 , disgruntled Department of 7,000-page document, called the 'Pentagon decision making in Vietnam and concludes they were than military or political realities in Vietnam. for the war and for the South Vietnamese Americans now believe the war is morally if it leads to a South Vietnamese collapse. the North. They still demand North Vietnam removes the release of American prisoners. Hanoi demands Nixon attempts to isolate North Vietnam including a breakthrough diplomatic mission to disappointed, since China and the Soviet Union The North now feels another offensive could they launch the Easter Offensive, with 122,000 NVA Cambodia and Laos. Now equipped with Soviet and the attacks make early progress against ARVN, equipment makes a powerful impact: "I would like to go back to the night of May 10, different calibre indirect fire weapons. That's The prep lasted for approximately 10 hours sir. until 0400 in the morning. The first six hours of mortars started in... I wouldn't want to guess how intense it was unbelievable sir." but its US airpower including B-52s and Cobra Even so North Vietnam keeps some gains. General Abrams command and pursues negotiations looming, and with only 24,000 US troops finish the withdrawal and sign a deal. negotiations. The North wants President Thieu Vietnamese troops out of South Vietnam. prioritise US voters' concerns - like the return Kissinger writes the US simply needs a "decent South's seemingly inevitable collapse: forces by a fixed date and let objective We want a decent interval." (Anderson 96) internal" was official policy, but many chances of long-term survival are poor. although the US gives up more. The and cooperate with Thieu within a National Council withdraw all its troops and recognise the Revolutionary Government - the political wing not have to withdraw its military from the south. is outraged, although at least one National "After having said for years that independent government, we now resented it acting of view... a poor agreement." (Daddis 192) tries to renegotiate with the North in resorts to force to break the deadlock, ordering US bombers drop 36,000 tons of bombs on North than the entire total dropped from 1969 to 71. and the North reopens negotiations on December 27. due to the bombing, the damage of which was The attack also cost the US 27 aircraft historians suggest Thieu had already agreed and the real intention was to show US strength to media are generally critical of the attack, with When negotiations resume on January 8, 1973 the new deal only differs cosmetically the final Paris Peace Accords signed on January in the South and the US will withdraw within 60 pump military equipment into the South, and the US will return. By March 30 1973, the final good. American involvement in the Vietnam War has Even so, all that remains of the US's small US marine detachment at the Saigon embassy. violate the Paris Peace Accords. The North while Southern President Nguyen Communists in a Council of Reconciliation. ARVN forces move into contested zones, combat to avoid provoking a US return. However, and heavy weapons and infiltrates more forces A US return though, looks unlikely. Congress and reintervene if necessary . Senators from both power, ordering an end to the bombing of The Watergate Scandal - which reveals Nixon influence. Facing impeachment, Nixon resigns promises to continue to support South Vietnam. ,,Therefore, I shall resign the tomorrow. Vice President Ford will be sworn The North now steps up military actions, response is lacklustre, so the North intensifies Ho Chi Minh offensive to be victorious in Following diversionary attacks, the North captures retreat from the Central Highlands towards Saigon, the NVA advances along the coast before swinging the NVA push them back after 12 days of fighting. "There is a strange, sad giddiness in Saigon... to 0 late in the fourth quarter and your team the thrashing your team got, but at this the game to end." (Harrison in Yancy 182) resigns on April 21. Instead, Ford prepares scenes as thousands of South Vietnamese civilians "[T]he airplane started to move with the door saw people running around in all directions to be in a panic. People all around me on the them started praying very loudly." (Langer 283) surge to the US Embassy and break in just as the Americans and 5,500 Vietnamese in two days. "Because to the Vietnamese people, all now that we stop fighting, I am very happy, all the people who have been in the army." enter Saigon to little resistance. On gates of Thieu's Presidential Palace and By May 3, the North clears the final areas of the North announces a unified Socialist Republic For the US, their long involvement from the struggle for independence arguably Until 1973, 2.7 million US personnel more than 58,000 are killed and trillion dollars in today's value also led Counting Vietnamese casualties kills up to 2 million Vietnamese civilians, and personnel. The US estimates around 250,000 But the Vietnam War's legacy goes further Northern agents forcibly move some Vietnamese into though estimates vary. There are reports of but their scale and frequency remain debated. 10% of South Vietnam's agricultural land is Orange. Some also associate these herbicides defects among both Vietnamese and US veterans. Communist ideology on the south, even Not all within the Viet Cong's Provisional and some expected a more pluralistic system: they began to show their cards in the most that the Vietnam of the future would be a single in which all the traditions and culture of political machine of the conquerors." (Ruane 160) China cause 2 million Vietnamese ethnic Chinese merchants. Many escape by But the Vietnam War's legacy goes beyond Vietnam appeal to allies, both in Indochina Cambodia to seize an all-important advantage. American intervention in a foreign land, and as 'The American War'. American historians, and the war, but thousands of troops from other When the US enters the Vietnam war in 1965, coalition will join him. Not only will this US actions, both internationally and domestically. Asian Treaty Organization - a kind of like the other former French Indochinese colonies, but SEATO claims responsibility for the actual members are interested in joining the US. has no interest in returning, while Britain of the 1954 Geneva Conference which established that the British public and governments are more So President Johnson's so-called Many Flags the Philippines and Thailand The US grants the Philippines $80 million in for a 2,300-strong engineering and civic support as well as deployment costs for sending troops that grows into a 12,000-strong division. Although Filipino and Thai contributions are opportunism - some US allies In Australia, Prime Minister Robert Menzies He hopes Australian support for US Vietnam Pacific, and Australian, security. sends Australian advisors to South Vietnam in When US ground forces enter South Vietnam Initially, a single Australian battalion joins is difficult. Australian equipment, some of it Americans', but there are other differences. prefer small unit actions, rather than US and massive force. Australian doctrine often could units expect to be more self-sufficient "Aussies used squads to make contact, and brought they planned in the belief that a platoon including get out... I still maintain better than our guys ever would." (Longley 100) separate Australian Task Force with air support Operating in Phuoc Tuy Province, they rely on ambushes rather than US-style search and destroy. force of 2,000 Viet Cong in a rubber plantation the opening moments, and move to surround the 6 Battalion holds off VC assaults with the Air Force Hueys drop ammunition and medical Armoured Personnel Carriers and reinforcements "I remember the deafening noise from small arms identification of friend or foe extremely hard, and when all seemed lost as the enemy firmly believe would have been very difficult The relief and joy that flooded us!" (AUS GOV 19) operations eliminate large VC units from the remains in place. Australian jungle and and their different tactics are responsible which employ many Vietnamese civilians and Force base is closed to Vietnamese. As and ARVN troops cannot accurately estimate According to one statistic, VC units instigate but fire first in just 6.7% of encounters with contacts resulted from their own ambushes of the But the second largest foreign contribution from a SEATO member. South Korea with force levels peaking at 50,000 in 1969. US intervention in the Korean War, although and military aid. The US modernises the South and arranges deals with US companies. President mercenaries" but promotes long-term South Korean kickstarts South Korea as a major world economy. for aggression and brutality, perhaps due to animosity to communism. Whatever its source, it US forces, Korean soldiers are sometimes VC tunnels - or turned on suspected enemy "Whatever else the Koreans did in but with their reputation for brutality, we all the Viet Cong so openly in the future...If we and if the ROKs became overzealous, we could plead As the US withdraws from 1969 on, their allied troops experience many of the same inability to fundamentally destroy the enemy but growing protests in both Australia By 1973, all allies are out of Vietnam. 512 Australians, 351 Thai, 37 New Zealanders and casualty, as it is disbanded in 1977. abroad. Within Vietnam itself - especially ethnic minorities willing to fight. the Montagnards - an umbrella term for many US special forces recruit Montagnards or CIDGs. Australian advisors, working within the Montagnards are often Christian and have suspicious to both the North and South Vietnamese them as capable, competent and self-reliant "To my surprise, I discovered that the CIDG troops and disgruntled peasants I had envisioned. They minority groups with a fierce loyalty to each respect and consideration..." (Kelly 86) but US special forces extend their role to US and Vietnamese special forces work beside ambushes . Montagnards use their local knowledge provide intelligence and proactively hunt the VC. including building special forces camps so-called fighting camps are designed to By using local materials and labour, each to be easily defendable by small garrisons of defence in depth with multiple layers of barbed mortars and earthen ramparts and bunkers. in enemy territory, they are used for proactive "During my tour in Vietnam, I have seen a and military proficiency of the CIDG... on 8 April 1967. Three platoons from Camp were deployed south and east of the camp in night Regional Forces outpost... The CIDG platoons moved NVA and capturing 20 weapons." (Kelly 104) camps spread across South Vietnam, especially in are camps on stilts built along the Mekong Such camps provide CIDGs a degree of operational including airborne, river borne, and nighttime and pin the enemy while conventional forces Special Forces provided 50% of MACV's ground they can be used in cross border incursions into ramifications . Relations between US Green Berets special forces live beside their allies But there were also failures. Relations with South in a Montagnard uprising in 1964. Some commanders forces, either seeing them as simply a strategic so, the lessons learned in Vietnam would go But it isn't just the US and South Vietnamese North Vietnam arguably gains the most Since the 1950s, the Soviet Union and China amount of aid fluctuates over time, as does the most arms, while the Soviet Union urges caution. increases support, including military advisors. China and the Soviet Union want to position of revolutionary movements, a competition ideological split. But non-ideological strategic Vietnam as an important buffer and economic gives the Soviet Union a freer hand in Europe. aid and the Soviet Union 'quality'. Between and moves huge amounts of small arms, artillery around 320,000 Chinese engineering and they operate weapons and maintain communication manpower for the North Vietnamese regular army. years, reflecting growing tension within Union becomes a more reliable partner. They send and intelligence, although the most important surface-to-air missiles and MiG-21 fighters of the Korean War, noticed the improvements [ORIGINAL AUDIO John Madden]: [00:33] Last year, year, at least...Their defences are considerably and the SAM threat has increased significantly. this year, their activity is two to And the USSR also benefits from this part of their Cold War nuclear strategy, and their weapon systems . Captured and crashed while Soviet intelligence provides technical PoWs also report the presence of Soviet officers. in combat as anti-aircraft they train and direct North Vietnamese troops: our regiment had fired 43 missiles and US pilot] was told [the crews were] He said that the job smelled Russian." (Clines) flights with North Vietnamese students dogfight most evidence is anecdotal. North Korea support the North Vietnamese Airforce. support. Czechoslovakia, East Germany and while Communist Cuba also dispatches Cubans worked as prison guards and interrogators. communist cooperation, relations between complains about unilateral Soviet intelligence already tense due to historical animosity, suffer after President Nixon's 1972 visit to Beijing. some big countries to have a free hand... to bully liberation movement... [China] shrinking from its to revolutionary movement in the world to itself in the end." (Thee 125) to Vietnam ends abruptly in 1975 after the new Socialist Republic of Vietnam closer to the China. Vietnamese nationalism, Chinese economic of Cambodian leader Pol Pot, eventually leads to a former friend into Vietnam's most dangerous foe. to the territory of North or South Vietnam. As the war crosses borders, merges with different forms - from CIA-directed secret The former French colonies of Laos and Cambodia but not on the scale of Vietnam. The 1954 Geneva independent states free from foreign military By the late 1950s, several factions share Prime Minister Prince Souvanna Phouma heads Prince Souphanouvong leads a leftist faction or Pathet Lao. Prince Boun Oum - a cousin of the In 1959, rightist repression of the Pathet neutralist leaders purge the government of But on December 4 rightist general Phoumi Nosavan and captures Vientiane after a three-day artillery with the help of Soviet aircraft. corrupt and inept, and loses ground to the Pathet Jars - a flat area where road networks converge. crisis in Laos than Vietnam. President Dwight the Laotian Army as well as economic aid - more In 1961, President Kennedy inherits the commitment the growing tensions in Vietnam. &quot;In this military advance the local have had increasing support and direction say have been conspicuous in a large scale sorties since last December 13th. Plus a mainly from communist North Vietnam, and outside. All with the clear object of destroying The failure of the CIA-directed April 1961 abilities, but he also rules of conventional programme of training and resupply. To avoid are officially civilians, including pilots But CIA operatives like Bill Lair one National Security Council Staffer complains: would not stand up and fight." (Castle 39) Neighbouring Thailand is strongly anti-communist US operations. Together they also look for allies the highland Hmong. Ethnically and culturally fiercely independent. Although they're not very about Vietnamese encroachment on their territory. only Hmong commander in the Laotian Army - as fighters in secret. One of the first is Moua Thao: Padong... and two airplanes came in and issued the guns... ammunition... hand We received three days quick training... so we needed to learn how to keep them in three days." (EGUSD Oral History) who are now supported by North Vietnam, the Hmong the CIA are impressed with their fighting 10,000 fighters in the so-called Armee contain the Pathet Lao in the Plain of Jars. In April 1962, Nosavan loses his political base the Hmong establish a new base at Long an international treaty forms a fragile orders all foreign military to leave. The Soviet ignore the request. The US moves its agents to In 1963, the Laotian coalition falls apart and their former allies in the neutralist faction. on the Hmong and CIA support, the Pathet By 1964, the Laotian Civil War is firmly connected a logistical highway to South Vietnam - the with a major base at Tchepone. With the US they hope the Hmong and others can tie up North Bombing becomes vitally important Thai and Laotian pilots in up-gunned T-28 trainers flying Laotian marked aircraft. Prince Souvanna but the US pressures him to accept. bombing in Laos as Operation Barrel Roll. American and the air force targets the Plain of Jars week by 1966. The Plain of Jars becomes one of Despite the scale of US bombing as is American fighting on the ground. Laos falls into a seasonal cycle. The Hmong, using Pathet Lao and North Vietnamese, advance on the Hmong into a more offensive conventional force, of influential operatives slow progress. becomes known for collecting Pathet Lao ears: green, reinforced cellophane bag as you walked up send them to Vientiane with the report. Sent 'em girls were sick for a week. Putrid when they Ear collecting is soon discontinued. government still suffer on the ground. Rampant commanders sell US equipment to Burmese opium The CIA doesn't do much about it, and the By 1968, the Pathet Lao and NVA are on the a secret US radar base at Phou Pha Tri. When Vietnam in late 1968, he compensates by more The scale of such bombing is hard to hide, and Richard Nixon, defends US actions but also Hmong forces therefore go on the offensive to region. In late summer, supported by massive By February 1970, though the Pathet Lao recapture are draining Hmong manpower, so Thailand sends across the border in 1971, but fails to cut the Vang Pao's Hmong army is breaking apart . It and is starting to rely on teenage recruits. and following the 1973 Paris Accords, the Vietnam. Unlike in Vietnam, major fighting including the Pathet Lao take power. However, Hmong, who no longer have US support: now they [were] leaving us without looking what they were going to do to us. Are they us in re-education camps?" (EGUSD Oral History) abolishes the monarchy, and installs mostly a non-violent takeover, but they camps and continue to attack the Hmong. Lao civilians and military, about 10% of the mostly pilots and CIA personnel, while the Hmong around 50,000 Hmong and other minorities 250,000 Laotians become refugees. 2.75 million tons of bombs on Laos - roughly Up to one third fail to explode, and leftover Laos suffers terribly, but its neighbour Cambodia as war makes way for genocide. by the 1954 Geneva Accords. New Cambodian Prime French concessions prior to the agreement, and unlike in Laos, North Vietnamese insurgents leave. neutralist stance. He rejects US in 1965, and maintains contact with North "I have always adopted a realist attitude. Heaven it was numbering in the [1960s], in the north about eight times more than Cambodia then. "Red" to be handled with care." (Morris 39/40) On the left, he's opposed by the Khmer led by Saloth Sar, later known as Pol Pot. But government troops. Originally the Khmer Rouge forces them into highland tribal areas where "Almost every night we would receive instruction communism and the revolution and world affairs. and nobody understood a word of it." (Padwe) from North Vietnam, which is and is worried by the Khmer Rouge's more radical, North Vietnam prioritizes their own war and sanctuaries in Cambodia for attacks But North Vietnamese troops in Cambodia do trigger the secret bombing of NVA troops in Cambodia, Then, in March 1970, while Sihanouk is abroad, announces a Khmer Republic, and requests US Uni National du Kampuchea - or FUNK - an anti-Lon The US doesn't help Lon Nol's since Washington can now frame US actions in US and South Vietnamese troops launch a major in Cambodia. It's a modest success, but causes Bombing, the coup, and the US invasion bring the with the NVA providing 10,000 troops. government army, the communists seize two-thirds Vietnam does not want to see a victory - yet. communist regime it controls and it doesn't Cambodian agents, but this and its preference tensions. These are made worse by historical and a patronizing attitude towards Cambodians "...at times the narrowly nationalistic approach problems of Indochina is too obvious, and the the problems of Laos and Cambodia to the interests the Laotian and Cambodian friends." (Morris 51) and occasionally assassinate Vietnamese and their control by removing pro-Sihanouk figures they even attack NVA troops in border since it has just signed the Paris Peace Accords South Vietnam, not fighting Cambodian Communists. the US massively steps up bombing in Cambodia, receives letters of protest from US aircrew: war in Cambodia on a day-to-day basis. I come at hand. What I see is an absurd effort by my corrupt, dictatorial government at involved in a civil conflict and as a result and destruction on a massive scale." (Eisenberg) and slashes funding for US operations in prevents a Khmer Rouge assault on Phnom Penh. government is vulnerable, especially since China In January 1975, the Khmer Rouge resume the the city in April, and Lon Nol flees to the US . victory in Cambodia victory, but privately direct North Vietnamese assistance, reducing Sihanouk officially becomes President of under house arrest, and announce a new state of Pol Pot calls his program 'Year Zero': he agricultural revolution. He denounces outside Angkor kingdom as a simple agrarian state . urban professionals, Buddhist priests, Muslim Starvation, overwork, and executions kill the pre-war population, with many suffering [ORIGINAL AUDIO Ing Pech (S21 Survivor)] I would hear people use screaming when was working the building next door. And sometimes we'd hear would fall over in shock. Sometimes I would the ears of the prisoner. Sometimes they would cut Publicly, North Vietnam applauds Cambodian "Liberated Cambodia is living in a new But tensions continue. In May 1975, Vietnamese in the Gulf of Thailand. Both sides play friendship in August. Hanoi still hopes a and is reluctant to provoke China, which supports Le Duan confides in the Soviet ambassador: conducting a crude and severe policy... Militarily, Vietnam has a huge advantage, with 300 aircraft. The Khmer Rouge barely has 70,000 Despite this, the Khmer Rouge launch killing 200 civilians. Le Duan believes into hasty action and urges restraint. Cambodia and hide the attacks from the public. invading one province before withdrawing in suspected pro-Vietnamese figures, including Rouge kills about half of the Cambodian Vietnam wants to start reconstruction, a growing economic crisis - which it cannot do Many Vietnamese nationalists also want an Vietnam. While the Pathet Lao was relatively easy sentiment in the Khmer Rouge as a problem. invasion with 150,000 troops. Advancing overwhelm Cambodian forces. Faced with more with many supporting Vietnamese forces. On and Pol Pot escapes to the western mountains. Cambodia. Prince Sihanouk flees abroad Government of Democratic Kampuchea, an non-communist guerillas and the Khmer Rouge. The all oppose Vietnamese control over Cambodia: Indochina, the United States, Thailand, and two to a strange marriage of convenience with the People's Republic of China." (Clodfelter 285) ends the Cambodian genocide. At least for some seen as a liberation from the Khmer Rouge. &quot;The Vietnamese are the only troops which fight many people in the countryside and in the city They are allowed to do whatever they want another and they help with one another with However, the Vietnamese invasion is not a interests are their own nationalistic priorities. as it worsens already bad relations with which has split from China, and moves away from a disputes over the Paracel and Spratly Islands are population, self-confidence, and economic and occupation of Cambodia is the tipping point. begins, also known in China as the "Self-defensive the "War against Chinese expansionism." In total, opposed by 120,000 mostly irregular Vietnamese but run into strong resistance towards Hanoi. claiming it has punished Vietnam enough. With the end of the Sino-Vietnamese War, Indochina artillery duel across the border throughout the Rouge insurgency in Cambodia and Thailand. Only in does the Khmer Rouge finally disbands. relations with the US, while new treaties turn perhaps even strategic allies. TRADE REPRESENTATIVE RICHARD FISHER] event, representing the final chapter in from adversaries to trading partners.&quot; Vietnamese view the US favorably, although this Americans feeling the same way towards Vietnam. may have diplomatically healed, the memories The Vietnam War, even in its first years, does today. Many struggle to understand how North while some claim the US wasn't defeated at all. honor" and later claimed, "We had won the Agreement included major US concessions forces in the south. General Westmoreland the field to the enemy and the de facto end State Dean Rusk called it a "surrender". Henry Kissinger, point out that Washington and the agreement was designed to cover a US "we know the goddamned agreement will in the position where if it doesn't it will be At the very least, this was clearly defeat as historian Gregory Daddis concludes: policy rather than collapse. Yet judged on what it US military] "won" its war." (Daddis 204/205) rages on this question, with a person's position political background and beliefs, and Some see the roots of US defeat in a failure suggests US intervention in Vietnam had good errors and poor judgement hindered operations. McNamara outlined a long list of causes a lack of understanding of Vietnamese General Westmoreland's attritional strategy is counts". Critics say this approach, although failed to address the actual critical element legitimacy of North and South Vietnam. US leaders puppet, whose forces could be systematically Vietnam was largely independent and represented "By wrongly attributing the conflict to external its internal dynamics. By intervening in it placed itself at the mercy and a determined adversary." (Hopkins 102) limited value and rarely developed the political victories are counter-productive. For example, in trenches on Hill 937 - better known as Hamburger the 101st took the hill with 450 casualties, only hill itself held little strategic value and Or as journalist Jonathan Schell wrote, "The Regardless, some see consistent US tactical Vietnam War - but others question this logic. North Vietnamese offensive and performed most combat in Vietnam was small scale. 96% of and the North Vietnamese instigated around 75% There is no reliable data for who "won" these US never destroyed the North's ability to launch And military victories are a not a means to an end themselves. As Prussian "war is the continuation of politics", and but using force to settle the political questions successes did not prevent Northern political "You know you never beat us on the battlefield," "That may be so," he replied, "but But even those who accept this conclusion are rest with the common US soldier. Who ultimately President Nixon blamed congress, while some "In the end, we sent our sons to be maimed the political leaders of this country courage or skill on the battlefield. corridors of power in Washington." (Langer 333) complain they were fighting with "one armed refused to allow a conventional invasion where North Vietnamese forces operated freely . trail in neighbouring countries was vital to strengthen border security, but it wasn't enough. were allowed under Nixon, they achieved little. of the attritional strategy was really President Men. They say figures like Robert McNamara, influence by insisting military strategy fit into this they argue, not an obsession with firepower, strategy. Pacification efforts would require even Some military figures, like Colonel Harry also argue the Joint Chiefs of Staff failed to adequately brief presidents. not in the jungle, but on the streets of America. in pressuring US leaders. Public support is in which national survival is not at stake. US involvement, but where did it come from? misrepresented the war to the public and gave through graphic reporting and media framing. a South Vietnamese girl wounded by napalm, raised Westmoreland was especially critical of "... voluminous, lurid and distorted newspaper the Tet offensive, had transformed a into a 'psychological victory'." (Jesser 91) before Tet coverage was largely supportive. The and some news editors suppressed negative stories appeal to audiences. Within the Cold War context, But the media did play a role expanding claims and the reality in Vietnam, resulting in debated how much the media created this dissent, the time media became more critical, public already shifted the conversation - and the of developing anti-war sentiment, the media may Domestic news coverage of protests and political than television war coverage from Vietnam . them as a legitimate activity, while major stories released by American domestic journalists and were no major news outlet would publish the My Lai television network news was lower than commonly to watch it. Susan Carruthers, a professor "...television may have confirmed the trend adamant that television did not set it; indeed Regardless of its actual impact, the idea to post-Vietnam officers and affects day . Some highlight media figures such as Fonda - who visited North Vietnam - as traitors their impact has been grossly overstated, for deeper military and political failings. focus almost exclusively on the US itself. But By 1975, revolutionary nationalist forces in over 30 years. They gained experience but also struggle. Their experiences also taught North was essential to defeat a more powerful enemy. to unconventional operations, navigated advantage, and maintained public support The North Vietnamese casualty rate was not Vietnamese ones, as they generally dictated small-scale attritional attacks combined with partially designed to weaken US public will. North who oversaw the victorious campaign against the critical US strategic weakness - one which could "The war was fought on many fronts. At that opinion... Westmoreland did not believe in human in weapons and material. Military power is not beings are the decisive factor." (Langer 318) outcome. Despite significant US support, worked to develop state legitimacy or create undermined by the Viet Cong, but corruption, pacification efforts were ineffective at best, rural political base from which to develop ground even with massive US military support. and clearly identifiable for the Vietnamese and passive. By fighting to maintain the political which would last as long as the North Vietnamese North Vietnamese morale began to suffer from precisely because the stakes of victory or The Vietnam War remains one of the most its legacy continues to impact US foreign policy. Syndrome" would limit future US foreign only 36% of Americans believed the US should keep President Ronald Reagan reconceptualised the The supposed end of the Cold War, Panama and the Gulf War further diminished was confident enough to announce, "By God, we've The cause of the US defeat was complex any single group. Debates often also ignore an strategy which withstood an unprecedented to do so even if the US had acted differently. drawn from the American experience in Vietnam, limits on the effectiveness of external be. The United States had one failed war in Vietnam War should be enough." (Anderson TVW 128) humiliation of the defeat has politicised look to shift the blame to others - media or anti-war groups - or deny defeat the reality of defeat, the possibility of making Since you are watching this two plus I am guessing you might be a history buff that cover all the crucial details. documentaries: the first one is 16 Days in Berlin; Berlin ever produced. A 4 1/2 hour day-by-day the entire war when the Red Army advanced from capital. Filmed on original location, featuring and much more. The second documentary is Rhineland Front in which the Allies under Bernhard ultimately crossed the mighty Rhine river. This location, features detailed maps and animation, can't watch 16 Days in Berlin and Rhineland 45 on of the war using authentic combat footage. documentaries with a combined runtime of over building together with other creators; where we guidelines and the mighty algorithm. If you watch all our content in 4K, ad-free and earlier Nebula is also available on your Smartphone that for just $36 a year. And if you really long-form, highly detailed history membership is available again for $300. Pay and Nebula exist. The money of the lifetime resources into original series and it supports that's nebula.tv/realtimehistory War series. You can find links to the sources of below. If you want to learn more about the don't don't forget to check out our hour long video on Patreon or Nebula, thank you do it without you. I am Jesse Alexander and the only history channel that's done