Pat Mitchell: So I was thinking and by the way, these two women, I'm very honored to say, have been my friends Jane Fonda: Yes we have. PM: And one of the things is something that Cervantes said. He said, &quot;You can tell in this case a woman, &quot;by the company that she keeps.&quot; So let's start with -- (Laughter) JF: We're in big trouble. Lily Tomlin: Hand me one of those waters, I'm extremely dry. (Laughter) JF: You're taking up our time. We have a very limited -- LT: Just being with her (Laughter) JF: You ain't seen nothing yet. Anyway -- sorry. PM: So tell me, what do you LT: I look for someone who's audacious, who's forthcoming, who has politics, who has even a small scrap someone who's decent, and who thinks I'm worthwhile. (Laughter) (Applause) JF: You know, I was thinking this morning, I don't even know what I would do I mean it's, &quot;I have my friends, LT: (Laughter) JF: No, it's true. I exist because I have You're one of them. I don't know about you. But anyway -- (Laughter) You know, they make me stronger, they make me braver. They tap me on the shoulder when I might And most of them are You know? I mean, it's nice -- (Laughter) JF: No, I do, I include you in that, it's nice to have somebody still around when you're getting toward the end. I'm approaching -- LT: No, I'm glad to have you (Laughter) JF: I'm showing you the way. (Laughter) LT: Well, you are and you have. PM: Well, as we grow older, and as we go through what do you do to keep LT: Well you have to use a lot of -- JF: She doesn't invite me over much, LT: I have to use a lot of social media -- You be quiet now. And so -- (Laughter) LT: And I look through my emails, to find my friends, so I can answer them because I know they need my counsel. (Laughter) They need my support, because most of my friends and you're all three ... and a long string and I want to get to you I want you to know that I'm there for you. JF: Do you do emojis? LT: Oh ... LT: That's embarrassing. LT: No, I spell out my -- I spell out my words of happiness and sadness. JF: You spell it right out -- LT: I spell it, every letter. (Laughter) JF: Such a purist. You know, as I've gotten older, I've understood more and so, I really make an effort to reach out and make play dates -- I read a lot so, as Lily knows all too well, my books that I like, LT: When we knew we would be here today you sent me a lot of books and I was so surprised how much research JF: And were you grateful? (Laughter) PM: And -- LT: Wait, no, it's really important of how women are overlooked, There's been very little even though we volunteered lots of times. JF: That's for sure. (Laughter) LT: This is really exciting, The Harvard Medical School study has shown that women who have are less likely to develop impairments -- physical impairments as they age, and they are likely to be seen JF: And longer -- LT: Joyful lives. JF: We live five years longer than men. LT: I think I'd trade the years for joy. (Laughter) LT: But the most important the results were so exciting the researchers found that not having close female friends as much as smoking or being overweight. JF: And there's something else, too -- LT: I've said my part, so ... (Laughter) JF: OK, well, listen to my part, Because they only -- they only researched men when they only very recently have they researched and it turns out our bodies get flooded by oxytocin. Which is a feel-good, calming, Which is also increased And I do think that's one reason And I feel so bad for men Testosterone in men LT: Well, when you and I JF: Oh -- LT: We laughed, we did, we found we had so much in common Here she is, like Hollywood royalty, I'm like a tough kid from Detroit, [Dolly's] a Southern kid and we found we were so in sync as women, and we must have -- we laughed -- we must have added JF: I think -- we sure (Laughter) If you know what I mean. LT: I think we all know what you mean. (Laughter) PM: You're adding decades So among the books that Jane was one by a woman we admire greatly, who said about female friendship that women friends they're a spiritual act. Do you think of your friends as spiritual? Do they add something LT: Spiritual -- I absolutely think that. Because -- especially people people you've spent time with -- I can see the spiritual the tenderness, the vulnerability. There's actually kind of a love, I just see deeply into your soul. PM: Do you think that, Jane -- LT: But I have special powers. JF: Well, there's all kinds of friends. There's business friends, I've got a lot of those. (Laughter) But the oxytocin-producing They feel spiritual You know, we go deep. And -- I find that I shed tears a lot Not because I'm sad but because LT: And you know one of you (Laughter) PM: Well, two of us are sitting here, (Laughter) And I always think, when women that men always look a little mystified. What are the differences, in your opinion, between men friendships JF: There's a lot of difference, and I think we have to have (Laughter) that they don't have what we have. Which I think may be why they die sooner. (Laughter) I have a lot of compassion for men, because women, no kidding, we -- women's relationships, our friendships They're revelatory. We risk vulnerability -- I mean how many times &quot;Did I really screw up there?&quot; PM: You're doing great. (Laughter) JF: But I mean, we ask questions like that of our women friends, and men don't. You know, people describe women's whereas men's friendships LT: I mean most of the time they want to bury deeper feelings. I mean, that's the general, They would rather go off in their man cave or talk about sports, I mean, it's just the kind of -- JF: You meant -- I meant they might have sex if they could get somebody (Laughter) JF: You know something, though, and again, psychologists didn't know this is that men are born every bit If you look at films you'll see the baby boys gazing into their mother's eyes, you know, needing that relational When the mother looks away, even the boy would cry. They need relationship. So the question is why, And the answer is patriarchal culture, which says to boys and young men that to be needing of relationship, That a real man doesn't ask they don't go to doctors if they feel bad. They don't ask for help. There's a quote that I really like, &quot;Men fear that becoming 'we' You know, his sense of self. Whereas women's sense of self But our &quot;we&quot; is our saving grace, it's what makes us strong. It's not that we're better than men, we just don't have LT: And, well -- JF: That's a Gloria Steinem quote. So we can express our humanity -- JF: I know you know who she is, (Laughter) No, but it's a great quote, I think. We're not better than men, we just And that's really important. LT: But men are to be comfortable in the patriarchy. And we've got to make JF: Women's friendships LT: Well, that's what's exciting It's because our friendships -- female friendships and sisterhood can be to give the world -- to make it what it should be -- the things that humans desperately need. PM: It is why we're talking about it, because women's friendships are, as you said, Jane, a renewable source of power. So how do we use that power? JF: Well, women are the fastest growing especially older women. And if we harness our power, And guess what? We need to. (Applause) And we need to do it soon. And one of the things and we can do it as women -- for one thing, we kind of set We need to consume less. We in the Western world and when we buy things, we need to when we buy food, we need to buy food We are the ones We need to make ourselves And the fossil fuel companies -- the Exxons and the Shell Oils cause they are -- are going to tell us that we can't do it You know, that the alternatives and that's not true. There are countries in the world right now that are living mostly on renewable And they tell us that if we do that we're going to be and in fact, if we begin and not drill in the Arctic, LT: Oh, boy. JF: And not drill Right. That we will be -- there will be more democracy and it's women that are LT: Maybe we have the momentum with our sisterhood around the world, with women we don't see, but we join together that way, because -- Aristotle said -- most people -- people would die without male friendships. And the operative word here was &quot;male.&quot; Because they thought that friendships and women were not considered equal -- JF: They didn't think LT: No, exactly. That shows you (Laughter) And wait, no, here's the best part. It's like, you know, The planet needs women. The US Constitution needs women. We are not even in the Constitution. JF: You're talking about LT: Right. Justice Ginsberg said something like -- every constitution that's been written included a provision that made women but ours does not. So that would be a good place to start. Very, very mild -- JF: Right. (Applause) And gender equality, it's like a tide, it would lift all boats, not just women. PM: Needing new role models How to be friends, how to think about our power as consumers, as citizens of the world, and this is what makes Jane and Lily a role model of how for a very long time, and even if they occasionally disagree. Thank you. Thank you both. (Applause) JF: Thanks. LT: Thank you. JF: Thank you. (Applause)