Hello all friends. How are you? What's the weather like? Welcome to my YouTube channel. My grandmother looks 35 at 67 years old. 4-5 sprigs of aloe vera. Let the aloe vera soak in the water for 10-15 minutes. A bunch of fresh mint. For dry skin, peppermint oil helps to retain moisture. Mint also removes age spots and cleanses the skin. Mint is rich in antioxidants that reliably protect the skin against acne. Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos. This yellow juice should come out of the aloe vera within 15 minutes. Then rinse thoroughly under running water. Aloe Vera is the best collagen for skin. Perfectly moisturizes dry, dehydrated skin 150 ml of olive oil. Olive oil improves elasticity and prevents premature wrinkles. The oil also cleanses old cells and protects against sun and irritation. Cook over low heat for 10-15 minutes. Write your opinion about the recipe. My grandmother constantly takes care of herself. Strain through cheesecloth. Store the butter in the refrigerator for up to 10-12 days. Apply oil to the hair roots. Massage your head for 10 minutes. Leave on for 30 minutes. Then rinse with shampoo as usual. Now let's make a skin moisturizer. Aloe vera gel. 2 tablespoons aloe vera gel. Aloe Vera Gel mattifies oily and combination skin. 1 teaspoon aloe vera oil. 3-5 drops of vitamin E. The moisturizing properties of vitamin E ensure that the skin's moisture is retained for a long time. Apply the cream daily to previously cleansed skin. Store in the refrigerator for up to 12-14 days. Next useful recipe. 4-5 sprigs of fresh mint. Using mint for oily skin tightens pores and regulates the functioning of the sebaceous glands. 150 ml milk. The lactic acids in milk help remove dead skin cells and leave you with smoother, more radiant skin. Strain through a sieve. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. Cornstarch helps improve skin texture. Heat over low heat until thickened. Let cool down. 1 teaspoon aloe vera oil. Apply the mask to the skin of the face, hands and neck twice a week. Then rinse with warm water. Moisturize your skin with a moisturizer. You will love aloe vera masks and skin care products. We wish you beauty and youth. At 67 years old, my grandmother looks 35 years old. 1 piece of fresh potatoes. Raw potatoes are suitable for caring for all skin types. The anti-inflammatory effects of potatoes relieve swelling and smooth wrinkles. Potatoes are great for tightening loose skin. Add 200 ml water. Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos. Place in the freezer. Ice cream with potato juice tightens the skin and makes the facial skin elastic. Wipe your face with ice every morning before washing. My grandmother has done this procedure her entire life. Make this ice cream ahead and keep it in the freezer at any time. Potato Tonic is suitable for all skin types and has a strong rejuvenating effect. Apply toner to a cotton pad and wipe over your face and neck morning and evening. Store at 7degC for 9 days. We use the remaining potato juice to make a rejuvenating cream mask for the skin. Add 150 ml water. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. Cornstarch helps improve skin texture. Heat over low heat until thickened. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 3-4 drops of jojoba oil. 3-4 drops of vitamin E. Jojoba oil helps to regenerate tired and sagging skin. Vitamin E helps eliminate wrinkles and prevent new wrinkles from forming. Apply the mask to previously cleansed skin, leave it on for 30 minutes and then rinse with warm water. Store in the refrigerator for 8-10 days. Now we will perform a peeling that will help you remove age spots. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. You can renew your skin and make it healthier with lemon juice. 1 teaspoon of aloe vera gel. Aloe Vera Gel stimulates collagen production, which helps improve skin elasticity and reduce wrinkles. Apply the mask to previously cleansed skin, leave it on for 20 minutes and then rinse with warm water. Moisturize your skin with a moisturizer. You will definitely like masks and skin care products made from potatoes. We wish you beauty and youth.