In this Syrian suburb, It feels like we're in But this is not fiction. It is the terrifying image of a conflict, who has already killed 100,000 Syrians To her only, summarizes the civil war from Damascus to Aleppo. Aleppo, one of the pearls of the Middle East. Thousand-year-old city, rich and commercial, renowned for its architecture, The rest of Syria was at war, but Aleppo, Until the summer of 2012 when the street to in turn demand the departure The Syrian dictator then warned them. - Terrorists are criminals They don't care about everything. Nothing stops them. If we don't do it, But the warning goes unheeded. That summer, the city went up in flames. On one side, thousands of rebels supported by a few foreign jihadists. Opposite, a professional army In the fall, the balance sheet 1300 regime soldiers, 2000 rebels and a number There is neither winner nor loser. With the rebels we plunged January 2013, we leave Destination Aleppo, the capital After 2 years of conflict, the border The Turkish side is easily recognizable 2 to 3 million Syrians have fled their country Suddenly the road becomes We are in Syria. Barely entered, already After 3 hours of driving... Aleppo, finally. We are welcomed devastated, struggling with the cold. Barely arrived, a rumble A Syrian army fighter very close to the neighborhood It's a little after 12 p.m. Just a few minutes ago, Families had lunch there Around sixty women and children An excavator is already in action. An inexplicable miracle The machine arrived a few minutes - I'll spit on you Bachar! The inhabitants know that the planes they don't get used to it. Besides, who could The front line is no longer It was emptied of its inhabitants. Public services have disappeared. For the rare survivors, water only 2 hours a day at best. The few bakeries, - Here's the delivery! These makeshift bakeries are Inside, the rule is another for women. - It's the bread crisis. We don't have enough flour Have you seen how quickly it goes? Each family and it's a bag Winter also seems to have frozen Bashar al-Assad's forces occupy the West. Free Syrian Army rebels In the middle, the front line In this part of the city center, Small groups of determined militiamen Most only have a Kalashnikov or bought on the black market for $2000. Their only strategy: Maintain control of a building The rebel army, here it is. Mechanics, farmers, artisans, who one day overcame to say that they want to live What the revolution lacks most is So the rebels improvise. This former mechanical company From now on, here, we profile warheads, and we adjust the spare parts The head of the workshop is Fadi, a former - You see, we mix powder, with ammonium nitrate and after, we stuff the arugula. Before, we only manufactured But now, God willing, we are going to move on to 120, 125 mm. And all this, I guarantee you, To prove to us the extent Fadi wants to show us A rocket launcher as if he was coming out But that's without counting - Bachar, he has at least one advantage, he forced us to make weapons. Because before, I didn't know anything We knew it existed, but that's it. Today, we are unbeatable grenades, fighter planes. And these planes, we didn't even know Deep down, what does this guy want? I think he's bloodthirsty. But Fadi's workshop also manufactures This anti-aircraft defense, for example, the machine gun is original, To control the rotation, they even installed controllers On the ground, the arsenal of Small missiles welded quickly This one had to go hit a pitch The next day, we follow a brigade On the way, a fighter - What is happening ? Come see. His smile should not be misleading. This fighter hides In the distance we only see As we approach, we It is January 30, 2013, the day when a gigantic massacre Men only between 14 and shot - We recovered bodies But massacres of this magnitude, It's always the same. They kill and throw away the bodies May God grant us his forgiveness. For convenience, the victims are gathered The identification of the bodies is done The smell is suffocating new victims - Let it pass! This woman has just recognized She had no news from him As we film, Muslim tradition requires that the dead Those who have not been identified in this common grave dug For these bereaved families, This massacre is by Bashar al-Assad. Without any proof being provided. Aleppo is a crazy city that oscillates - Are you going to the front? In Aleppo at war, the processions This katiba marries The custom is that the bride to go to her new husband. There she will remain locked up with The whole neighborhood came But above all, the young rebel must The ceremony will be brief and sober. The brigade is in fact composed all linked to the patriarch Abou Oudai, a former farmer converted - It's a big day for us. I present to you my son. He is 23 He returns from the front His legs are still a little weak, And then, we found him a wife. And that's the main thing. Abdelkader's story is edifying. He drove a regime tank, then he deserted 6 months ago it was taken back And there they tortured him day and night. They put me on the 7th floor of a hospital. A prison in fact. They called me prisoner number 7. I was just a number so that They locked me up for 6 months. And all this time, They put out their cigarettes Before, we saw the bones here... And there... And then they dragged me on my back, - Turn around, take your hand away. - And that, that's due to torture. And then he got shot How many deserters Hard to say, but he's the last with the promise of seeing us again 2 months later... In April we are back in Aleppo What has become of the city And the people Apparently, if not a few meters We returned near the canal where There never was Rebels and government accuse each other Another rumor is heard: The killing would be the work It looks like Aleppo has moved on. In the rebel neighborhoods, there is no Everyone tries to find Like this young activist Zacharia, 26 years old. His parents and his wife disowned him This morning he walks the market - Hi ! Give me a bag. Surprise ! Tomatoes - Normally, vegetables come Despite this, prices have tripled. Even quintuplet. The kilo of tomatoes and it went to 100. It's as if you, In fact, you can find everything in Aleppo, Zacharia chose to help the revolution He became All day long, he makes precious What he bought this morning is stayed all night In this auxiliary profession, and ready for anything, This is the first time I've seen a man Usually, it's a woman's job! In the afternoon, new mission. Zachariah must deliver a message The phone doesn't work here On the way, he crosses Bab Al-nasser, Where his father ran a stationery store. He can't help but stop. Another year ago, - It's a nightmare. Bab El Nassar is the neighborhood where I It was the most commercial street, It took half an hour But until we get rid of we will not be peaceful. This store belongs He was my neighbor. The last time I spoke to him, He admitted to me that he had killed, and he was happy Civil war erases everything, Former friends have become These women returning from the market Like thousands of residents of Aleppo or go home. Cautious, the majority Others are more fatalistic. The reason ? They are in the line of fire particularly effective shooters And when we know that their rifle can it is better to take the threat seriously. Another French journalist, present during the battle of Aleppo, Every week, around ten passers-by and many others fall - She didn't go far! To fight against sniper fire, the brigades use the D system. - Head down ! For example, they tend to hinder snipers. But the most difficult thing is - Bunch of dogs! After a few tries, mission accomplished, the way is finally clear and protected In a district of the old town, We have a rendez vous Here the fighters invented A mirror with a major advantage: Being able to locate shooters - What you see deep down, There are offices, a bank Be careful, don't get too close, Verification done, We can go there. We then discover So as not to walk uncovered in the streets they dug Mustapha guides us through this maze. Without knowing it, we find ourselves In this corridor, silence is imperative. Under penalty of being spotted - It's the body of a man And we're going to try to bring him back. This is our goal. It's hard to get it back, because there are several snipers waiting Everything we do, The headquarters of the katiba The leader, here he is finally: Abou Jaafar. Not so long ago, this man Today he is at the head of a group They belong to Liwa Al-tawhid, They chose to settle An incredible luxury for rebels. -And here is the bathroom. In fact, this brigade a brotherhood of Islamists But apparently, the katiba of Abou Jaafar They are forced to resort - Move away, guys, it's dangerous. The pomegranate can very well - Bashar al Assad, son of Hafez al Assad, For several days, Abou Jaafar This area of the old town is under threat Only one solution is required. Destroy their lair that is right - We are 70 or 80 meters away We have made good progress and we are in control Our goal is to hit the deposit To achieve this goal, they did not A ridiculous weapon And it is in the greatest silence To follow the operation, we install the camera as close as possible - Look, did you see him pass? Amazing ! In the viewfinder, we see - What are they waiting for ? A cry rang out. Apparently the damage - We hit the soldiers' lair. But for the rebels, The response is not long in coming. Abu Jaafar stayed behind. Bullets whiz around our camera. - Your hand is injured! - Be careful, it's the crazy sniper from the hotel On the scale of the battle of Aleppo, This does not prevent Abou Jaaffar from us - You see, over there, This is our real goal. Suddenly... A shot. - It comes from us! - It's not serious... I will answer him myself, The war in Aleppo is in fact often more symbolic than effective. As surprising as it may seem, Below this building, An essential profession in Aleppo. No revolution without good shoes. Of course there is no electricity. To sew point by point, Behind this curtain, another surprise. The shoemaker hides his whole family There remains his mother-in-law, Mara. She had 2 sons, but they disappeared Since then, Mara has been content - The youngest has asthma And here is our only source This is the bathroom. But there is no water, no electricity. To enlighten himself, his son-in-law tampered with a small - What are you cooking? - I made vine leaves - The hardest, We get debris on our heads. Mara could occupy one of the many but she prefers to stay Others are not so lucky After the outbreak of the conflict, This former SME boss abandoned everything, to help the poor - I told you to separate the I'm just taking the martyrs' files. There, we sort the files. For each family of martyrs, In some neighborhoods, In Aleppo, meat is a luxury, The luck is that this butchery - We slaughtered some sheep, and that is the meat that we are going to distribute It is already pre-cut and there is no more Because it is rare and expensive, the butcher will mix it All that remains is to prepare it A portion of 500 grams per family - Okay, hello. I'm leaving for Salaheddine And I'll be back in 1 hour Before, we could feed all families but today, Originally, it was Abou Saadi - Before I was a successful businessman, My money, my house, my factory. These are the agents of the regime But God will reward me. I'm even happy Because there's no point in having That's what I believe. Today, Abou Saadi will distribute the very close to the front line. To not get lost, he is accompanied by volunteers There is nothing automatic about distribution. Abou Saadi checks himself Obviously, it is The elders of the family fight 8 people left, - Since when are you here ? - Yes, we lost our house. It was the free army that relocated us here. These two little ones are completely orphans. Abou Saadi is moved by the situation He will offer her two portions of meat. Another apartment, Here lives a woman, - As you can see, it's garnished here. There are eggs, butter, beans, Without qualms, Abou Saadi will not give Besides, she was having lunch. But out of modesty, the young mother will wait The visit continues. - Well, you have to be careful here. We are in the crosshairs of a sniper So, we're going to run. Okay guys, let's go. Abou Saadi and his team still have But that's without counting Two streets away, a new bombing The same horror scenes, This time it's not just a whole street was blown up. By the time we arrive, the macabre The most seriously injured already evacuated. It is impossible to establish the slightest assessment. The angry crowd has just found a - That's 500 kilos that massacre Nobody uses weapons like that. Even Israel hasn't launched one This bomb has a particularity: A technique that ensures -And what do you say about that? What are you doing for us? We are neither terrorists, Look how they're killing us! Shame on you, Arabs! Suddenly, near us, a group spotted - Digger guys, hurry up, Abou Aref is a volunteer rescuer. He's used to these long waits - Bashar wants to destroy this Koran. He wants to destroy the Koran and Islam. But this book is our weapon. He fights with his planes and we, Finally, a corpse of a man Carried away by habit, Abou Aref highlights who has been dead for a long time. - From here on, please don't film. If you film, the regime will see the image Their location must be kept secret. Bombing a hospital is considered a The fumes of the bombing Yet this is where they come to play one of the few still - We applaud from above. We applaud downstairs. - Do you want to go home? The bombs don't seem Not even this little girl completely Yet it suffered destruction Shihab is the last teacher On the benches, there are fewer All lessons are done in songs. Arabic, calculation or drawing. - Do you understand what is happening in Aleppo? There is a lot of destruction - And what do you feel? - Fear and also horror. The teacher does everything - I can only talk about my school. Children are very aware I didn't tell them anything about the bombings, I'm just here for the kids to stay For me, the best way, is to teach them so that they don't lose - Sing with us for our childhood! Children around the world, sing with us! Sing with us, A few days later, He has a meeting with Despite the risks, To accompany him, he chose a friend. - After the building, there is a sniper there! He knows the neighborhood perfectly. On this iron curtain, someone even Now we have to walk By car, it's impossible At every intersection, you have to run, bend down, make as little noise as possible. One wrong step and we can meet again Zacharia is not a journalist, but it stores a maximum of images Maybe one day, if a criminal court judges - Behind it is It is in the hands of Bashar's army. A few meters from here. - You know, the building across the street and yesterday with an Islamist brigade, There were deaths and injuries. But Bachar's guys gave up The place is too dangerous. To join Zachariah's friends, we have to turn around In this area, buildings Just a few days ago, the soldiers At this moment, only one street and for the first time we can see This incredible proximity to know very well At first glance, Then suddenly, He's hidden in this apartment And there begins a funny dialogue. - Soldier ! - What's your name ? What are you saying ? My friend ! Cross the street ! But not now ! The night. - Tell him we won't hurt him. - At night, I tell you. I will come to find you. The soldier's only response It's obvious. Ahmed is starting to lose patience. - I swear, I'm going to kill you. - Bashar! You are the king of donkeys! - Freedom, freedom, we want freedom. This soldier did not desert, but the Syrian army counts a lot Pro-Bashar televisions They prefer to dwell on progress - Everything we know, it's that the government army There would be none left 17,000 were killed in the fighting. Many are undoubtedly sometimes in mysterious conditions. This cat that we pass by was delivered to the katiba of this district. But the rebels Last day before our departure. The balance of power has not really changed. Some new DCAs are roaming the streets but the men of Bashar al-Assad In the streets, the rebellion is still fighting In these conditions, it is not surprising that This is the case of the Islam brigade. - Our goal is to sow fear, When we shout "Allah Akbar" to them, So you imagine when they hear Everything is different in operation They have more money, their material is better Discipline too This is the first time that we observe patient and attentive. Nothing to do with the militia The leader of this katiba that there is no difference with nor on the military level, - When the free army rose up, We are the same. We love moderate Muslims. Islam which is not strict, Islam which believes in We are not saying that there is We simply say and others who are even more practicing. A rehearsed and measured speech Yet... As we leave, we come across a This man belongs April 26, 2013. We are leaving this town Here the battle Aleppo still hesitates