Moderator: ...both Sadhguru and the U.S. I invite both the illustrious speakers to what, and why of loneliness. Sadhguru: How do we do this? Sadhguru: Namaskaram, good morning Dr. Vivek Murthy: ____ (Inaudible). It is a true with Sadhguru, whose contributions to the Sadhguru: Huh? Dr. Vivek Murthy: Can Is it... Is it on? Dr. Vivek Murthy: How Dr. Vivek Murthy: Okay. Usually helps to turn it to be here and what an honor to be here with in particular for inviting us, and helping talk about a subject that is near and dear question of happiness, fulfillment and how sharing a few thoughts, and then we're just But I began on this journey not because it was grew up and had a loving family. I was very as a shy and introverted kid, with my own became a doctor, I started to see that many with an infection, with another diagnosis, with the sense of loneliness and isolation. started to see when I was serving as surgeon our country, that people old and young, in kind of loneliness and isolation. That is what of loneliness, and to understand the science One is that, this feeling of loneliness That in the United States, certainly during the were struggling with loneliness. And if you struggling the most with the highest experiencing loneliness. The second thing that that when people struggle with this sense of each other, that that increases their risk of And we're talking 29 percent increase in the in the risk of stroke, 50 percent increase And a risk... increased risk of premature death we see with social disconnection is comparable And as it turns out, you know, smoking and Our connection with other people, and with So that is what began us on this journey. And for around the world has underscored this idea in our lives. That we walk through life with perhaps, direction but at some point or support from one another. I think a key part, is the idea that to be deeply connected to other And to be connected to oneself means your connection to the universe, to be able to a sense of peace also internally. But forward on this path. Sometimes people in our see ourselves more clearly the way good rebuild a sense of connection and community could not be more essential today. Because but we're finding that, as we experience all and that have been coming for the last they have brought extraordinary benefits to to each other. Right? And we may be connected but that feeling of having knows you, somebody with whom you can have and compassion and affection, that is something Rebuilding that, in my view, is one of the for our individual health, but for the health for the world at large. Sadhguru, I'd love to get Sadhguru: Namaskaram. Sadhguru: Well, we are 8 point... nearly So in a pretty crowded world, people are sociological aspect to it, which the Dr. Vivek Murthy: You can call me Vivek. Sadhguru: Like he articulated, and also I I know generally what's the direction, about that have happened. Because situations adjust them constantly enough, then family situations, everything will come to with the world. You need to adjust that. It is is trying to address how to create infrastructure, some alignment happens, the gaps at least reduced per se, is not a social That, sitting among a crowd of people, you can little too much sometimes. Hello? You know, ___. So, even if you are loved because it's a psychological phenomena. You So, one important aspect... I'm trying to, you main focus is on the individual. One thing solitude is gone. What it means to be in This is the time you soak up life. So, one how much time you spend in imbibing things you spend in expression, this must be one is imbibing, one-third, if you express, your expression It will not be just noise in the world, it very early opportunities to express, even a on the Facebook. I hope you guys ban that to wonder, imbibe the world. Such a as you can, before you find a word for it. whole lot of words are tu... turning filthy. perceive and imbibe life, simply flaky more din, then being lonely is a natural many, many aspects to it. We'll see if we time because this is not a simple issue, this growing problems on the planet. To... I'm... I'm not a doomsayer. Hello? Participants: Yes. (Talks aside: Sir, Dr. Emeran, wonderful to I'll tell them what So in this world, if we just let it be as is especially expressive technologies are imagined in the next four to five years' If this happens and we don't do anything about time, there'll not be a single family without Already we have achieved some landmarks. family over 40 years of age without some physical stuff and whatever. But that Physical ailments are painful, but mental Physical pain, you can... you understand, With mental pain, you don't know. You don't know helpless. What is happening you can't figure, that to this. There is no one gauge for it. nature of... of psychological issues that... it just beats you. If you try to hold them hold them there, they'll fall here, you know? All the things, many, many things that we humanity, as human societies, it's wasted comfortable physically than ever before in warning the women. You are the first generation comfort, and convenience, that a woman never before. Hello? So, this we should not slip If we don't do the right things now, if indiscriminate action, without borders indiscriminate action for the human species, If we don't do this, all this development, all that technology has heaped upon us, everything Already you're seeing it. Hello? People are could have. The greatest emperors had 12 chariots with 600 horses, at least How many of them are driving blissfully You just stop the traffic for two minutes, they'll dream car, why can't they sit there for some that car. If somebody forces you to... you to you must enjoy it. You saw the pandemic time, What mess! So, there is a difference between and being healthy. This is a distinction we Mass application is different - we can only here, there. But individuals should set a Well, it's easier said than done, because human unfortunately. They want well-being to come Unless they commit to creating it, really as an incubation period for mental illness. How soon, how later, what is the volume of to person, because this depends on genetics, your own intelligence, whatever, whatever, It is coming for everybody because the moment just this. See, loneliness is of time. When I time doesn't roll for you. If you look at Unless you have a defective watch. Every... spend it. If you sit here, it goes away. This terror of life, because life is going away. As I Yes or no? Not watch ticking, life is going away. on you, that it rolls too slow... Already Loneliness does not necessarily mean there are It is not about people. People are a little bit But release is just a mask or just a little bit of because there is nothing beyond your thought just physiological and psychological process. within the human being. Even if thought became If your thought and emotion happened joyful or miserable? Joyful. If you keep yourself time? Hmm? Twenty-four hours just flips like how slow time rolls? So loneliness is of time, how to ride the time, then the same cycles of If it crushes you further, then it becomes mental They are progression. Dr. Vivek Murthy: Building on what you said, loneliness, which as you said can happen you are alone, that this is a subjective to others. I spent a lot of time traveling And I remember college students, university thousands of people, other students They didn't feel that anybody knew them. They didn't feel comfortable with who they talked also to people who only have one or two They feel connected. They feel a sense of I think that's important for us - and I think but really as a father, myself, of two small reorient society to focus on that deeper from that deep connection to ourselves, and I have found to loneliness, can be the service others, when we do something for our find a sense of peace, recognize the value speak to young people these days, they're clearly to think about success in life in a very universities, I always ask students, &quot;Can And they'll usually tell me some combination And if you have all three of those things, then, But we know many people who have all of these And there's nothing wrong with being famous pursue those paths. The challenge comes to the rising generation of young people and that if you have that, then you don't could not be further from the truth. And so I fulfillment that we're talking about that comes to oneself and to others. Yet, we have to and the technology in our lives, so that it helps to find fulfillment, as opposed to enslaving us and activities that may generate clicks and necessarily bring us the kind of fulfillment There's this term that I've found many students sort of haunts me a bit, which is... They to build connection with other people when to each other anymore?&quot; And the first time I student to repeat the question to me. And he said, to each other when it's not the culture to referring to was the fact that, on so many When I was in university, the dining because everybody was talking. They were points of view, they were learning about each Sadhguru: Hello. They don't have I say the same things even if I'm The Indian dining halls are always quiet, because you shouldn't be talking. When I first came to We started doing programs in the summer camps big boards saying, &quot;If choking happens, what I thought, &quot;Why would anybody choke on the in my entire life.&quot; Then I see they're talking low water content food - for example, bread talking so much, choking is natural. So... I know, more than they're eating. That's why you must Dr. Vivek Murthy: It's a fair and interesting But one can say that overall, I would say low everywhere. The first university we on the right date, or are the students on on campus while they're walking here and Dr. Vivek Murthy: And that's exactly right. So, the They said, not only is everybody on their devices looking on their laptop, but that is pervasive. walking somewhere, when they're eating in the But they also interestingly said, and the reason not being (able?) to talk to each other no longer comfortable just to go up to somebody you're intruding on them. You're breaking up that they're having, or something that and again, and again... It's one thing if who has a different reference point, maybe they digital natives. But when that is what you've to just build the kind of skills for having from comparing points of view, that just doesn't built. But finally, to pick up on something own thoughts, with reflecting, with having comfort has evaporated. That in many of our smartphones originally, was that it would make promises that came, the promise that we will But all of that white space in our life, the few the few minutes we had when we were waiting Sadhguru: A lot of people Dr. Vivek Murthy: You meet people in these space is taken up, because when we have a that means not only are we not having those those moments for reflection, for just simply that that doesn't happen as often. So we're in not only into our lives but we have to help in a way that prioritizes that kind of time, that kind of connection with others. Sadhguru: It's... it's wonderful and I deeply thinking of personal loneliness of individual there is so much facility if people want to meet imbibe music on the street when they're walking, and they're listening to it on the street, we for about 15 minutes. We came a little early, they're just texting and coming straight you are going to bang into them. So... Of I just make way. But I'm saying everything else You know the cosmos through the What this essentially means is, you have heaps So it gives you a false sense of knowing everything, This will make you like a... If anything happens, You see the bewildered look on people's faces brought them down here. This is a dangerous problem of technology, because technology The cultivation of what we do in schools, in children, but their lives are such, they're still What they were struggling when 16 years of struggling with the same things. They're still look out for themselves. When children come, by because children don't listen to a damn they will go one step ahead, or many steps ahead. many steps ahead of that. So it's very important a child is not just... Once you become a reproduction activity. You're literally It's a very important responsibility. So because... I don't want to go into the the American situation. Why I'm somehow United States of America has found thum... some aspects intentionally, That anything that America does, people the rest of the world is doing. When it's like responsibly. When the world wants to be So within the family, it's like this. When little irresponsible people try to fix themselves a their back when they're talking to the they're trying to be responsible in their own instead of not blowing the smoke into their that sense of responsibility is because is looking up to you, naturally, how you are position. These one, or two or whatever you You must understand, you're like a divine ahead of them, they're this much, you're this to fix because it's an individual level within the It's a private space. So this space has become like this and it's spreading everywhere. At it's becoming like this. That... I don't want to but generally - you may be an exception, but children come, all right? This is the natural now there are many other ways of doing it. I of us are born like this. Our parents tame... came together on a daily basis? Is it a war at wonderful and beautiful? This determines That is out of control. There are many, many, One simple thing is, early age alcohol further PhDs are there now. Okay? I mean I will not enter that. Just the alcohol, which cannot live today and it's not even and everybody can drink. There is enough just about twelve milligrams of alcohol, three structure of the child will be affected. In the men were feeling, &quot;Oh, it's only the woman who it's even worse, because if a man drinks... the sperm quality, and what it does to the yet-to-be conceived child. You must understand, they are not born, but they determine so many we are contaminating in so many ways by doing below 18 years of age. Psychological problems, the strength of their system somehow held on. medical terms, but if... if something happens you're mentally ill in my opinion. Hello? All mistake, somebody made a wrong turn. If you have But that's being normalized. One of the biggest society and in the medical fraternity, we are this is very dangerous. &quot;Oh, how can we not about a standard. It is just that normal Hello? Yes? If I sit here, I have no troubles at a rudimentary level. We can ris... raise rudimentary level - you're sitting here, your We can say you're healthy. Now when we make it it's okay because everybody has it. This is they will push the boundary, they'll push Then that guy who's completely stoned out, and cities sitting there, he thinks he's normal. you're going to work, like a slave every day. I... I don't want to... because if I say I have some extreme viewpoints. No, I want done as modern society is... is to talk A very profound, fantastic and most valuable make it a social jingo, &quot;We are free, I am will come out of that. If you live responsibly, for freedom, you will become more and more looks like freedom. We come from... you're freedom... you know? Too much freedom Because freedom is a consequence of living that you do. You cannot do the consequence, the plant, fruit has to happen. You must have the to nurture, otherwise the fruit will not out of a tree that is non-existent. Freedom freakier and freakier expressions of human somebody is a freak, essentially it means (Talks aside: Can I point at you, Bala?) If is he doesn't belong to this, he's alone. If he of his solitude or his aloneness, fantastic. But he's... he's alone because of his just to stand out among people, now he will tries that, then loneliness becomes a massive is an incubation period for more complex very important that... already it's manifesting before it's too late, we're looking at addressing loneliness, because if we don't amount of input into it, well, you'll have a at least a few of you may know this, you don't around you, it is the most painful experience. ten people will suffer immensely around them, person is physically ill, he will suffer, but brings lot of love, compassion, connection, It's a dangerous direction to move in, he ensures that everybody suffers, not by So, addressing these things at an early age use of technology... You cannot stop technology, to go where it goes. We are into lot of transform human beings has not started the material or the machines that we use in the same caveman's position. If I just growl like a caveman, even today. So I'm technology is not only dangerous to him, it's because today we have enough technology, enough power, don't think just nuclear bomb, there are so many ways to freak life for of just about everybody. It's just another few how to do this just for fun. You understand? They they can do that. Everything on their phone, and technology is running at such a pace, it's that this must be upgraded. If this is not without upgrading this one, then we will suffer. this, that. Well, they got a job that they They're not given a job that they don't applied for it, and they got the job. Now they're Now in the school itself, they're stressful. they're feeding you, they're dropping you, What is this about? You mus... We must human intelligence. When our intelligence turns call it anxiety, you can give it a thousand there is no system in the society to teach because it's a sharp instrument. If you Some people believe earthworm has brains both... believe like this. So, that level of brain if Once you have this level of intelligence, how because it's a sharp instrument. Once you have conduct it, how consciously you apply it is very Compulsive behavior means... Compulsiveness There is not enough consciousness to use or the greatest technology which is here, in a If my own intelligence turns against me, no Hello? If your intelligence turns against you, But when we say, &quot;Stress is normal,&quot; you must mentally ill world. You're working for Stress is not normal. When you were five years When did stress no... become normal? Because that wrong person. When did it become how do you unwind, Sadhguru? What do you do in So, there is a massive perceptional dislocation no living experience. It is not just in terms but in every way... Can I tell Shankaran Pillai applied for a job in Bengaluru. me also. So they were interviewing him, and level of perception. So they asked him a Without batting an eyelid, Shankaran Pillai He said, &quot;I can see the moon, I can't see heavy right now in the world, because nobody a worm, a snake, a bird, soil, what's Everything, they've seen the whole cosmos This is dislocation. You cannot exist here, Are you breathing, everybody or...? Hmm? This Dislocation means gone. So, you know respiration you can't exist. Like this, there are million you are consciously engaging in those transactions, the more stable you will be in body and Dr. Vivek Murthy: Picking up on this important around how we approach the world in a way that How do we re-engineer, if you will, our what it feels is happening is, there are so tools in the world and they're extraordinary, perhaps did not intend. And that does not mean no. What it means is we should get clear on utilize those technologies in our life. When being trained and then later practicing medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital. I remember impacted health and well-being. Many of lab reports, and we'd listen to patients' to realize over time is that, there were taught about in our classes, but that was well-being and health. And one of those was their to other people, their sense of purpose in around them. You see, we would realize that have the perfect lab values, the exact right gone through a procedure that removed all of these things, and we would look at the Yet a lot of times they weren't feeling better. unhappy still. And so I think if we really in a fulsome way, if we ultimately want to help we have to recognize that it's a combination, what's happening in our physical body, but also And when we can understand and optimize those and the spirit and heart, that's when we can simple things, that I often try to remember simple things that we can build into our day to self and connection to others. Because I and sometimes it might feel hard to just, everything behind and move somewhere else and and that might be the right thing for them. But start with is just to, number one, just find could sit and just breathe, where you can observe nature on your doorstep and just taking Maybe it's at the end of the day, sitting after and just being. We are in a world that's so on who we're being. But being is what proceeds and being centered and at peace, we can often productivity terms, if you will, being centered that we can have in our lives. But in addition five minutes a day to reach out to somebody or a friend just to check on them and see how for someone each day, one act of compassion, somebody who is walking down the hall, and for a moment to help them pick that up. Or or down during a meeting, and you pause for &quot;Hey, I noticed that you seem quiet, is while you're doing these things, whether it's it's that five minutes of connection with if you can be present while you do that - if on the moment, on the person you may no more than ten minutes a day to do, but and connection that we all desperately need in the world we live in is that, massive change Sometimes it can. But sometimes just a connection to ourselves and others, can do a And I feel this even more strongly as a and at the world that they are now surrounded there's no way I can be there all the time, what they're exposed to. They're growing up. that I can't even understand, in the future. as people who, even if we don't have our own in our lives that we care about - nieces and just as human beings who care about that we are supporting them in carving out That we're also emphasizing to them that leading by example, and sharing with them each day, not for an agenda, not for any someone else in their life in a real human my parents taught me very early on. My my mother and father, when I was growing to be able to come to the United States and and friends who helped us. But we went through and our friends did too. And what my parents are going through something in their life, My father always used to say, &quot;If somebody loses if you call tomorrow, or in a year. Call you know, when something happened, just to be with them, to drop off food, to and they ran a medical clinic in Miami - when something difficult, whether it was night, and talk to them for a few minutes just And I always remember that when I in the middle of the night and told me, We've got to leave right now.&quot; And it was what was happening. But I got into the backseat as well, all so sleepy, bleary-eyed. they explained to us that their patient, with metastatic cancer. And we were driving Ruth, lived. And they knew that they couldn't in that moment, they needed to show up who was suffering. And I'll always remember, of my mother in her Indian sari, walking up the and seeing the door open and Ruth coming seeing the two of them embrace. They two very different life experiences. Yet there for each other, exchanging the most which is the love that we give and receive today, my kids, your kids, all of our, all the is intrinsic within them, that we're born accomplish something, by world standards, be worthy as human beings. We don't need aren't an influencer on social media, What we want our kids to know is that that they need, which is that spark of the divine, And they can build on that to contribute sense of peace and fulfillment they have. But So this teaching, building this foundation really important to us, what really drives pain that we are living through, in terms of mental illness, as much as I worry about artificial intelligence and others, and with for us and not against us, what I do know perhaps because of those challenges, to rethink what's important to us. And that's a decision, each start making in our lives today. Because differently, when they start choosing to then more people start looking at them and And that grows, that movement builds, and that's Sadhguru: Among all the creatures that thrive who are reffer... referred to as beings. We smaller than us, as beings. Because they that they are largely ins... instinctual in their Or to be fair to them, maybe it's not like an creatures, 90 percent of who they are is they have to build their own personalities. But 90 percent latitude is there. This is why you What is the best way to build this 90 structure... and for everything around - this has The entire Yogic system is about this. in United States, Yoga means twisting and It is... There is a whole science. As there is a there is a whole science and technology for we understand what's around us better, we so that we know what to do. We have done there will be no world left, to that extent. of our existence is neither understood, nor such a way, it's about doing, it's about people think being means no doing, being means Only if a plant is rooted in the soil properly, One who has his roots hanging up there, he is of wanting to go somewhere, always, has to be to go anywhere. But if it's needed, Emeran is here, and the significance of biome and they are messing us a lot because they that we are eating is not good for them. If... So, if we don't take care of the microbial activity around us which we have been killing, genocidal images of airplanes spraying This is death of the planet. Planet will not It's death of life on the planet. And you must position on the planet compared to other creatures on the planet. Hello? Yes we are the first ones to go. Others will just and they will come back. This one is the enlarged sense of self-significance. Where telling us, &quot;God made every other life to serve Stand on an ant hill and ask, &quot;You guys are kind of lesson. Every life has its own full-fledged have not spent any time with life around. If bird or a tree, every one of them have their own families, their own everything. They I don't know. But definitely they have a prime minister, but they have a leader of their in an organized way in a sensible manner. from outside, that they caused harm to So, those creatures who are (have?) far lesser they know what is needed for their life, we must know. So, this is the biggest What do you think? First of all, let me clear adhguru: She's saying it's a problem? Sadhguru: Huh? Participant: Sadhguru: Yes, till something hits you in fell off the second floor, and he screamed &quot;Did the fall hurt you?&quot; He said, &quot;You You must do skydiving, without parachute. wonderful thing to do. You going... You don't simply you're there. Only if you look Don't look down, you don't know what's coming. and these things that are said, &quot;Human is a social no. &quot;Ignorance is bliss,&quot; no. Ignorance is far Yes or no? Evil people take a break. So, don't get into this mode. Ignorance till you hit the ground, it's blissful. It is very So, the most important thing is that human beings first thing. Our school system should come up Today, the computer will do the ABC typing. generation, they spent so much time on the We refused. We just scribbled, whichever way and say, &quot;Oh, is this? It's a cockroach will know how to write. Hello? Who's going to write anything. Everything is this, or maybe So, we're moving very fast outside, archaic You cannot slow down the outside. You cannot human aspirations on the world. Only way is way we're doing right now. The way we're but a whole lot of them are beginning to suffer. I'm speaking in 24 languages, you know? If probably it would take ten to twelve years and really get to a place where you can languages without even knowing a word These are not small things. These are your experience, or will it become great So, there is no way to stop the technology. technology. Just know this. It's all empty in a democratic society, policy making cannot move Only after it's happened, it will try to fix What tomorrow they'll come up with, you don't we have seen. &quot;Okay, we've got a steam engine. next 25 years.&quot; No. In the next 25 days, possible. So, when this is the pace at which we need to invest in human transformation. called as &quot;Miracle of Mind.&quot; This mind, human Do you agree with me? Sadhguru: No, no, you're looking for other Because whatever the greatest technologies that isn't it? Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: You are very fascinated with your So, human mind is a miracle, but most human beings It is going into industrial scale. That's individual suffering has always been there on an industrial scale, that it may be mass has come. But whatever, governments, many various levels, which is all meaningful for individual people taking their physical and Not for a government to fix, not for a doctor that I am physically, mentally healthy, will be lost otherwise. Namaskaram. Moderator: I know that we wanted to have a So, I have a question for Dr. Vivek Murthy Miracle of Mind. You talk about pain, loneliness behind it or help us understand why somebody in Dr. Vivek Murthy: One thing we know about We typically tend to think of physical pain. And we know that when we look at the anatomy that the pain actually registers in a very actually feel emotional pain the way we do punch in the gut when I got this bad news,&quot; that Which again is that emotional pain can And what we know about medications, like on a physical level, but on a psychological both physical and emotional pain for some I think about this broader opioid epidemic And I'm incredibly grateful that in the most time, a decline in overdose deaths, thanks leaders here in the state and around And that has to do with a lot of things - working harder to keep fentanyl out of the why those deaths are going down, but we still And one of the things I think that we have to to source control, is asking about, &quot;Are there that we can also look at, that may be affecting emotional pain.&quot; Right? This is where loneliness of emotional pain that people experience. social connection, social connection is practical ways, but how it makes us feel. something good happens to you, how many of Right? When something bad happens somebody to talk to them, or just to be with we naturally do as human beings, is we want to with others. If you follow sports, and when the streets to celebrate together. We do powerful about connecting with people from And this is one of the reasons why service is to connecting with others from a place of about social connection, from the epidemiology experiences that so many of us have with actually an important tool in our broader toolbox and to address unhappiness. And I think that and in health, and in well-being, we have we have to expand how we think about way we thought about health a several decades to recognizing that the health of not only our and support our spirits, that these are all if we ultimately want to help heal the pain the kind of fulfillment Moderator: Thank you, Dr. Murthy. I would end of the conversation. I thank Dr. Murthy for on this lovely topic and conversation. And thank Moderator: So please stay seated. There's going