- Hey there guys, Paul here In this video we're going to understand how it works There are also two problems for you to test your knowledge So, what is Ohm's Law? Ohm's Law is a relationship between voltage, current, and resistance and how they relate to each other. Ohm's Law was developed named Georg Ohm, who undertook many experiments including measuring current by touching the live electrical circuits to see how much it hurt. As you might imagine, the higher the current, the more it hurt. Now, there are three formulas but we don't actually and I'll show you a super So, the three formulas voltage equals current current equals voltage and resistance equals If that seems like a lot to because we don't need to remember them. All we need to remember is Ohm's triangle, which looks like this. So, you just need to remember V-I-R. Then we just write with V at the top and we draw a line to In fact, you don't even because I've made a free PDF guide for you with some worked examples or your mobile and Links for that can be found in the video description down below. Now, all we do when we is cover up the letter we need. So, if we want to find the voltage, then we write V = and then we cover up That leaves us with I and R, so we write I multiplied by R, which means voltage equals You can write a little between the two letters if it helps you. Now, I know what you're thinking. Why is current represented with a letter I and not a C for current? Or even a letter A for the unit of Ampere. Well the unit of current and this is named after Andre A couple of hundred years ago, he undertook lots of experiments, many involved varying the So, he called this intensite du courant or the intensity of current. So, when he published his and it became standard until this day. Now, you might also come across is used instead of V. The letter E stands for but don't worry about that, just stick to using V if you see it used in Anyway, so by covering V, we get voltage equals current If we want to find current then we write down I = and then we cover up the That gives us V and R, so as V is above the R like a fraction we can write V divided by R. Therefore, current is equal to voltage divided by resistance. If we want to find resistance, then we write down R = and then we cover up R in the triangle. That leaves us with V and I. So, we write V divided by I, which gives us resistance divided by current. Let's look at some examples First, let's see how we find voltage and how it relates to the other parts. Let's say we have a with a battery and a resistor. We don't know what the voltage The resistor is 3 Ohms and when we connect a multi we see that we get a reading We want to find the voltage. So, using Ohm's triangle, and that gives us V We know the current is two and we know the resistance is three Ohms, so we can write that in also. Therefore, two Amps gives us six volts. The battery is therefore six volts. Now, if you want to check your then I've built a free You can just drop your numbers in and it will do the calculation for you. Links for that again, in the Coming back to the circuit, by connecting two six volt we get 12 volts. If we now connect this the current also doubles If we double the voltage the current will also So, what's the relationship here? We can see that current is therefore directly proportional to voltage. If we double the voltage, Remember, voltage is like pressure, it's the pushing force in the circuit. It pushes the electrons around the wires and we place things like lamps so that they have to flow through these and that causes the lamp to light up. By doubling the voltage we see that the current also doubles, meaning that more electrons are flowing and this occurs as we apply This is just like if we were then more water will flow. Okay, so what about finding current? Let's say we now have a three Amp lamp connected to a six volt power supply. To find the current, we write down I = and then we cover up I in the triangle. That gives us V divided by R, so current equals voltage We know the voltage is six volts and the resistance is at three Ohms, so the current is therefore two Amps and that's what we see on the multi-meter. By the way, if you then I highly recommend you get one. It's essential for troubleshooting, but also building your I will leave some links down below for which one to get and from where. So, we saw what happens of three Ohms in the circuit, but if we double the by placing another three the current halves are just one Amp. If we double the resistance the current will half again to .05 Amps. We can visually see this because the lamps will become less bright from the increase in resistance. So, what's the relationship here? We can see that the current to the resistance. When we double the resistance, the current will decrease by half. If we half the resistance Current is the flow of electrons or the flow of free electrons. For us to make this lamp shine, we need to push electrons through it. How do we do that? We apply a voltage across the two ends. The voltage will push the electrons. The atoms inside the copper wire have free electrons in which means they can very easily They will naturally move to but this will be in random directions, which is of no use to us. For the lamp to turn on, we need lots of electrons to When we connect a voltage source, we use the pressure of a through the circuit all For example, to power this with a 1.5 volt battery, requires one Amp of current. This is equal to six quintillion, two hundred and forty passing from the battery and through the lamp every second. And if you can achieve this, then the lamp will stay If the voltage or current reduces or the resistance of then the lamp will become dimmer. Okay, now let's look Say we have a resistive lamp connected to a 12 volt power supply. We don't know how much resistance but we measure the current at 0.5 Amps. To find the resistance, we write down R = and then we cover up We're left with V and I, so resistance equals We know the voltage is 12 volts and the current is 0.5 Amps, so 12 divided by 0.5 gives Resistance is the opposition It tries to prevent That's why we use resistance in circuits to reduce the current and protect If we tied to connect an LED directly to a nine volt battery, it would blow out because the voltage and But, when we add a then these are reduced, so the LED is protected So, given the circuit, we by increasing the voltage. Or we can also increase the current by reducing the resistance. We can also reduce the current Okay, time for you to test your skills. Can you solve these problems? I will leave a link for in the video description down below. Problem one: Let's say we have this lamp which has a resistance of 240 Ohms. If we plug this into an outlet in the US, which uses 120 volts, what will the current be? Problem two: If I plug the same 240 Ohm resistive lamp into an outlet in the UK, we get a current of 0.958 Amps. So, what is the voltage Okay guys, that's it for this video, but to continue your learning then check out one of the and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, as well as theengineeringmindset.com