(upbeat music) - Casual greeting. Welcome to the &quot;Some &quot;Some More News&quot;, a silly But today we're going to get serious and talk about my favorite guy, the smart and normal This guy. - There's no such thing as climate, right? - Okay, Wait, let him finish. Not to fanboy out or anything, but I'm a pretty huge So, show some absolutely and let's hear him out. - Climate and everything - Shut up, he's not done. Surely, he's not done. - And I that's what bothers me about the climate change types. - Oh, okay, I see what he means. See, you just gotta let him talk more, to really understand him. So he's being derisive here see, as though the climate change types claim that climate is everything and I don't really think that's true, but maybe I just don't quite Also, I don't know what but let's give him a little more time, we keep interrupting him. - This is something that Technically it's like, climate is about everything, so okay, but your models your models are based on. - [Joe] Warming. - A set number of variables. - [Joe] Yeah. - So, that means you've which are everything to that set. Well how did you decide to include in the equation, And that's not just a criticism, that's like, if it's about everything, your models aren't right. Cause your models do not - All right, maybe this isn't because I hadn't seen it before. But don't worry, I have And yeah we're pretty fair And again, I don't know So a good question to - What do you mean by everything? - Perfect, thank you Joe. Great question, hope - What do you mean by everything? When you say- - Well, but that's what people who talk about the climate We have to change everything. It's like everything. - Okay, glad he said in some sense, because yeah, I guess in some sense, people who think climate change is real and something about which do think that we need to change, well not everything, but a lot. So we're off, to a good start? - And the same with the word environment. That word doesn't mean... - Oh, good. He stopped himself before he claimed that the word environment That would've been, that would've been embarrassing of him. Okay, go on doctor. - It means so much that it - Okay, you're still in some sense, just saying that the word but maybe you're getting I will try not to interrupt. - Like when you say everything, in a sense that's meaningless, right? Because, well what are you pointing to, well I'm pointing to everything. Well what's the difference between the environment and everything? There's no difference. What's the difference between Well there's no difference. So this is a crisis of everything? It's like no it's not. Or if it is, well if it cause we can't fix everything. - Well specifically- - But we have to. - What they mean to really understand him. what human beings are doing, that's causing the earth to warm. - [Jordan] Right. - So it's- - But you have to in the models to determine that. - [Joe] Yeah. - All these factors. Well, what can you not include? Well then by deciding you decide which set of And you have to make that before you even generate the models, this is a big problem. It's partly, it's not there's another reason, bedevils climate modeling as you stretch out the models across time, the errors increase radically. And so, maybe you can predict out a week or three weeks or a month or a year, but the farther out you predict, the more your models is in error. And that's a huge problem, when you're trying to cause the errors compound And so at some point, it's all error. In fact it's already the case that even if the climate models are right, the error bars are so that we'll never be able to measure the effects of the We'll never know if the to save the climate actually worked. We can't measure it, the 100 years out. - Sorry, I just have to and say that there are decades and decades of scientific inquiry and literature about some of these are largely accurate in and we know that the and we humans dump tons into the atmosphere, which heats up the planet and that scientists know, since the first half of the 20th century. And when people talk they traditionally mean chemical and biotic factors or an ecological community its form and survival, otherwise known as the literal And what was that about errors compounding like interest, months in the future. Mr. Doctor sir, it sounds like you're And weather predictions do Kinda like you, I guess actually, but climate is conditions over time, takes carbon and solar forcing into account cetera and so forth. Any error is accounted based on the amount of CO2 But then again, atmosphere is everything so it's really nothing, right? Why is he being so purposefully well what's climate even mean? What even are words? I thought this guy was a scientist. I'm sorry, I know I said I was a huge Jordan Peterson fan, but maybe I'm thinking of a different guy. I said I had other clips, can I see one? - Let me tell you as a - Okay, so wait, he's a neuroscientist. I mean, that explains the tuxedo, but that has nothing to Explain yourself or interrupt - I'm an evolutionary not a political philosopher. - All right, hold up. So, he's an evolutionary neither of which have anything Still that is a lot of degrees, I wonder where he went to school. Wish I could look that up. Oh, you know what? I just remembered that thanks to the miracle of Fake typing, fake typing and oh, okay. So, it looks like he completed at Grande Prairie College and and got a PhD in psychology, and that's it. No mention of neuroscience the two things he said on Peterson went on to be a at Harvard in the '90s. Oh, maybe he met that Will And then a professor at where he also teaches that we'll never be able to measure the effects of the Okay. Well charitably, I think being a weird liar, that he is arguing from the and evolutionary biology. That's a generous interpretation. Also, Will Hunting went so they probably didn't meet at all. Also that was a fictional film. Still, considering there's a D and an -octer before his name, It seems easy to assume he's Like, if you were a professor, and let's say one of your is to be precise in your speech. A serious scientist let me tell you as a neuroscientist or I'm an evolutionary biologist. Because you're not, you're a psychologist, you'd say it differently. Not to mention how confidently about climate science, which he appears to have absolutely I mean, I don't either. I majored in juggling at Piss University. Go fighting kidney stones. So who am I to talk? But also, I think maybe, based on the amount of CO2 I think maybe I just don't know enough about this guy to call myself a fan. And me calling myself a fan for me to originally reject the notion that Peterson is actually But now, I'm going to accept cross the threshold into and maybe being critical and go on a journey of I mean, that explains the tuxedo, but that has nothing to So, yeah, I guess I'll just, but that has nothing to Explain yourself or interrupt go watch a bunch of - I'm an evolutionary not a political philosopher. (dramatic music) So, he's an evolutionary Okay, this guy's a real piece of work man. I got some stuff to say, but before we go into and thoughts and (beep). I want to address those fans of Peterson who might think I'm or being uncharitable or dismissing everything he says, because of one weird - But then it's necessary to separate the wheat from the chaff. One of the things I see and got a PhD in psychology, and that's it. unsophisticated and is they'll read someone great, maybe they'll read Nietzsche for example. And they'll find the odd that grates against their whether they do that in context or out. And then they'll throw It's like, you don't it was Nietzsche, you He's like one in a billion, and you think, well, okay, no to that, but yes, to this. - And so we're going to try to do that, no to that, yes to this, et cetera, because that's what he would want. And we will try to be as fair with this allegedly reasonable man. And we'll try not to nitpick or straw man or take things out of context. And we will try to focus that he wants folks to Things he brings up often, so they are soundbites of Personal YouTube uploads to his larger project, what messages he wants to We will try to see how and how much wheat. And we're gonna start at this climate interview And it's gonna be great, before we even really begin the video. And I'm sorry, but also counterpoint, and this is important, watch these ads. (bright music) - What's up close heads. You're a close freak like me? Perhaps you also enjoy when you use them to walk. Oh boy the naked world, but we'll make them understand, we'll make them all understand. And so might I suggest the Tree Runner from Allbirds. It's a lightweight, breathable made from eucalyptus tree fiber. And it feels like absolutely what a dream. The perfect shoe to convert of the world, they do Here, look at them, look at mine. I named them Jerry Porkycorn and Dynamite. Dynamite's the left one. See dynamite here, he owns a You don't know much about We don't know what his shady past is. Any who, because they're Tree Runners are the perfect shoe for things like travel and exercising and just while in clothes, which will take to it immediately. So try them out, why don't you? Find your new favorite and upcoming travel at allbirds.com. That is A-L-L-B-I-R-D-S.com. maybe they'll read Nietzsche for example. - Hello, and welcome back Right, this is gonna be a whole thing. Okay, it's our Jordan Peterson episode, and we're going to take at the things this very And we're starting a with his statements about climate change, whilst chatting with Joe Rogan, after confusing weather with climate and claiming the words are meaningless and all that. Rogan asks him to clarify about what errors in the climate models he means specifically. And Peterson starts by saying. - Look, imagine that you're gonna predict how your life goes. - And then Peterson goes six minutes about how because of the vague idea that things in general in During this no exaggeration, six minutes, he talks about how in the future saying, you can game it out by offering someone $5 today and how some people are He then moves on to the tale of the ant and the grasshopper. The grasshopper fiddling all summer, and the winter comes and he dies. But the ant, well, the ant and so it survived. But what if the grasshopper and there was hyperinflation? Well in that case, the At one point, he talks as he calls it, of a the chicken gets used and thinks everything's fine. But then one day, it's dinner time, the chicken had a theory, in the chicken's plan. So you just can't predict Climate models and such, how I'm not making up any of this and Rogan, bless his heart I guess, really gives it his all, and... - That makes sense when you're talking about chickens and farmers. - [Jordan] Yeah. - But when you're talking - Okay so we could (indistinct) - And then Peterson continues to talk about whether or not you want $5 today or $5 in a month. And then the grasshopper thing. Again, nearly six minutes. And I feel like we can You know, the man is ridiculous and clearly talking in in order to push his ideology. But he does eventually of a smidgen of a qualification as to why he can talk so confidently about this stuff that he is wrong about. Yes, after he was corrected for his extremely wrong Dr. Jordan B. Peterson by pointing out that he &quot;Served for two years&quot; &quot;on a Canadian subcommittee &quot;for the UN secretary general.&quot; It's something he anytime he's about to say something wrong about climate change. - I worked on the UN committee that wrote the secretary general's report I worked on the Canadian subcommittee to be technically accurate. I worked for UN committee for two years on sustainable economic and read a very large amount and learned a lot. - Wow, what a fancy chair. I bet he's a serious man. And it is actually true that in that he was one of some advisors to one off the chair Specifically, James Laurence Balsillie, who is the co-founder of BlackBerry. And, this is unimportant. Who in 2006, tried to buy and move them to Hamilton, Ontario. And in 2007, tried to buy and move them to Hamilton, Ontario. And in 2009, tried to and move them to Hamilton, Ontario. And in 2011, he was rumored to and presumably move them And in an unspecified year, he was rumored to try to buy the Atlanta Thrashers before they were bought by somebody else, and move to Winnipeg, Manitoba. Again, unimportant. But this is all to say, Dr. Jordan B. Peterson helped research and edit James Laurence to this subcommittee. It could be argued that doesn't give a lot of weight to him saying that climate models are wrong. And also, that there's And maybe he didn't have a on the subcommittee, but he sure likes to pretend that he did, in order to say stuff like this. - First of all, it's very difficult to separate the science from the politics. And second, even if the more we have no idea what to do about it. And so, no. - So, he worked on this subcommittee and read a lot of books. And his conclusion, is that even if the extreme predictions of climate change are true, we just don't know what to do about it. Which is funny because the report put out by this aforementioned subcommittee that he worked on and actually very specifically about climate change. And we'll get back to that, but also this one subcommittee, isn't the only organization or person who's put forth many ideas And Peterson's complaint it's hard to pick one idea The genius order and Yes, after he was corrected But the point is that I guess Jordan read a lot of books - I can't read physics I'm not mathematically gifted. And so there are all sorts of scientific and mathematical claims - Oh, okay, interesting. Seems then like maybe you shouldn't go on a really big platform about concepts you admittedly can't grasp, especially when your position is in direct opposition of people who specifically do grasp those concepts. Speaking of all those another thing Peterson did when called out by actual climate experts was to respond with what was basically a fake news CNN tweet as his proof that his That book, &quot;Hot Talk Cold Science Global Warming's Unfinished the founder of a climate partially funded by Think Tank, that's partially funded by ExxonMobil. Nice work, Jorpson, way to show up decades of climate science by skimming a single book, and rambling on about a in 1923 Germany. It just feels like we're going in big, frustrating circles here, which spoilers, isn't going to be a rare occurrence. And so I guess that brings as to why this guy who sure appears to be a dip about climate change science in more than several ways, is being allowed to talk so confidently about climate change to despite being such a silly man. Like for some reason, one of Jordan Peterson's is that he is somehow, who calls it like he sees it. - You're one of those rare he's saying bull (beep) because and I'm not getting him. The problem is that most people in the audience didn't - Which is odd, considering everything I'm about to talk about covering Jordan Peterson, because this sure isn't the only subject this professor of psychology will speak very confidently about despite having no actual background in, and also being pretty, obviously wrong, and in some cases (beep) up and dangerous. In fact, it seems that lately the internet just can't get enough of Jorpson and his constant need to be the biggest and wrongest weirdo in the room. Perhaps you've seen clips which we will get to. Or at that time where he was &quot;Not beautiful&quot; before he claimed to quit Twitter even though he's the one who decided to tweet totally who did nothing to him His whole point was was trying to push a false idea of beauty, which is a subjective concept that changes throughout And in response, he was Look at this study about baby's attraction to symmetrical faces, which is or like whether or not it's possible to be attracted to thick women. So, weird study to post, to oh, and by quit Twitter, I of course mean he just kept tweeting, like constantly weighing to ability of various women before posting a transphobic statement about Elliot Page, that against dead naming trans unless he deletes the tweet in question. Jordan then saw this extremely common and deserved social media punishment as his own personal And so instead of just being an adult and deleting the tweet, he on this harrowing attack on his freedom to be a bigot on a social media platform. - Hello, everyone. in 1923 Germany. It just feels like we're going in big, A few days ago, I penned in response to one of on the increasingly In response to the decision of an actress, actor is being allowed to talk so confidently I am employing this awkward because it is now apparently mandatory. And I probably doing as you're doing it of what is being made mandatory. But also I'm trying to make a point. he's saying bull (beep) because I've essentially been banned and I'm not getting him. The problem is that most people I say banned, although - Which is odd, considering everything but the suspension will not be lifted unless I delete the and I would rather die than do that. because this sure isn't the only subject this professor of psychology And hopefully it will not come to that, although who the hell knows in these increasingly strange days. - Hey man, just delete the tweet. It's super not hard, just You don't have to set up two cameras and deliver some kind of a ransom video from the catacombs of your like your Vincent (beep) Price. Now, we don't have to and embarrassing video except to say that it's really hilarious What do you mean this Call him Elliot, that's his name? It's easy, you literally did it just then and are purposefully doing it awkwardly because you just don't want to. Why pretend it's hard or confusing? Aren't you supposed to be a, smart man? Just say you don't want to, Jordan goes on to break down his question. Remember when pride was a sin in probably the least - I don't regard pride as a virtue, it has been classically regarded as a sin. I don't see that sexual orientation or sexual desire of any sort or to take pride in, and so Now it's possible that I to ability of various women because I pointed out for example, a fall. - That's right, libs. Jordan was just stating a fact, and doesn't care if That fact of course, being that he believes According to the Bible, based on a religious text, otherwise known as a fact, apparently. Also he can't seem to acknowledge that gay and trans people and oppressed for like ever. So maybe there's a reason they're pushing to be out and proud now. Also here he is proudly checkmate Jordan, video over. Anyway, Jordan and his and forth between claiming this is actually about free speech, and then spewing some in the same breath, curious. Let's go ahead and skip - And finally, with regard criminal physician, I some post-coital, so to speak It is clearly the case that the by the butchers who butchered So, was it criminal or not? but the suspension will not be lifted Were the operations undertaken who carried out the Nazi Yes, under the laws of the time, but were they criminal? I'll leave that question - Ah, geez. Thanks for leaving the because I do have an answer. You see, back in the early 1900's, a physician named Magnus Hirschfeld like your Vincent (beep) Price. opened up a clinic called the that in 1930, performed the first modern gender affirmation surgery in the world. The purpose of that clinic was other clinics lacked when It was extremely ahead of its time, and made breakthroughs for decades to come. Breakthroughs that would help normalize trans people in society. There was a massive library but of course had a lot of work on transition surgery as well. Any who, the Nazis burned As in, that library was one of the first and largest book burnings And I guess my answer is that it's pretty (beep) up, that you would try to compare to the mother (beep) Nazis that tried to eradicate trans people from the planet, not to mention that your is pretty ironic considering to be put in a medically induced coma for an addiction problem because you couldn't legally Anyway, we'll get back to more Nazi stuff and coma (beep) a little later. You like Nazis, right? It'll be like Indiana Jones, but spoilers, is just Jordan But for now, what I'm getting at is that despite being what sure seems filled with vile hate, a man so Twitter can dunk on him. Jordan Peterson is still So why is that? Again the question remains, and we've yet to really Why is this man somehow allowed and encouraged to go on and discuss topics he has Why do people look to him for guidance? Well, let's start with his background. What Peterson actually or evolutionary biologist. We know he's a professor of psychology, but of course that's not the kind of thing that earns you an experience No, Peterson makes his or how he's put it. - Well financially, - Yes. - It's which is hilarious. - Yes, as an EO... Yes, I mean the thing that I've... I shouldn't say this, but I'm going to, because it's just so (beep) funny I can't help but say it. I've figured out how to monetize social justice warriors. (both laughing) - Yes, as of 2018, he was reportedly making nearly just on Patreon alone. He has a YouTube page, a podcast He wrote a book called &quot;12 Rules For Life&quot; that includes such bangers as, stand up straight with and be precise in your speech blembver. His official website offers and online personality Get your just for me, at the low, low cost of In other words, with all due respect, the dude is mainly a self-help guru. That's sort of it, he's an or future president Dr. Oz, is to aid those who feel of their lives. Yes, he had a psychology practice and was a professor, and contributed to the field But mostly, it's this. Also he sells lobster stickers and we will get to that later. But for now, the entry point to Peterson tends to start here, and then quickly expands to some concepts that are gonna be a little but I'm sure we will manage. And in a short amount of time, I swear, it just don't In true self-help fashion, Peterson's journey starts with finding a specific that wisdom to the world. In this case, the wisdom of a Swiss psychoanalyst named Carl Jung. As described in his very in his youth, Jordan He went to socialist meetings, but became disillusioned with the left. And as we'll see years later, became consumed by his hatred of them. But he also became disillusioned And as we will see, years later, even though he totally does. Young Jordan became focused and how they derive meaning. And he became plagued with and suicidal thoughts. According to the book, once he picked up the works of Carl Jung and specifically the theory See, well, Freud talked as in the meanings of dreams or phobias or anything to our brains, working on autopilot and sifting through our days, Carl Jung theorized that the same kind of subconscious thinking existed for the entire human collective, And while you could say, well no (beep) that's what instincts and pop culture is. This spawned a borderline mystical way of thinking for Jordan, centered on something These are symbols common among us all, that come from this otherwise perceived as such as the sage, or the everyman, or the surly Bostonian who is wicked smart. What I'm getting at is that none of this seems particularly different from the kind of thing you learn at a weekend screenwriting seminar, but apparently this is an entire psychological belief structure. And you could argue, that these Jungian archetypes, so much as they're vague of storytelling shorthand. But I also suspect that about this as well. And surely, common myths on our psychology and how we But I'm trying to keep this so I don't have a choice, but to be like Jungian And hey, if this all helps then who the hell cares, right? The nature of self-help is of course that as long as you're not hurting And on its surface, yet another way to work on yourself. The primary Jungian archetypes to the individual are the animus, or anima and the self. To sum them up, the persona is the day How we present ourselves to others, while the shadow is our unconscious mind, like our sex drive and inner desires to eat our The anime and animus are our archetypal images You could argue that it's simply our expectation of an ideal mate. And finally, the self represents our unified unconsciousness Basically, all the other an integration of everything. And while being a little dated, this kind of thinking is perfectly capable of motivating a person or I don't know, quit smoking. Except as you might have assumed by him talking about it doesn't really stop there. Peterson's obsession with the and this collective unconscious, urges him to not only comment And so he sure has a lot that completely branch aka (beep) he has no In fact, what I just said being a self-help goal, apparently Jordan - We have no way of confirming or supernatural actually can happen. What this is about the language. - [Jordan] Stops people from smoking. - Well, you can stop smoking without any sort of - No, not really. - You can't stop smoking - There aren't really any - Like, holy (beep) man, why does he have to make I mean, I smoked cigarettes for 10 years. Looked awesome doing because it was bad for me and Is that God to you? Well let's figure out why he has to make Briefly, of course. since Jordan Jorpson these Jungian archetypes. It might be fun to through this lens. Think of it like a self-help which I think is called an intervention. We'll explore his persona and shadow and anima and animus and ultimately, his self. And then, after we do all of that, we'll, I don't know, understand why he thinks he can because grasshoppers during 1923, Germany, I guess. So, let's get started. Sorry, let's not get started. Let's cut to ads one last Sorry, actually, no, I'm not sorry. How dare you, how dare all (bright music) Hello, it's Cody Johnston I wanna talk to you about your flesh. Nothing weird, I just think it's important to have nice flesh. That's why I think you should that's Causemetics, like the word cause. Because I'm told that every that help communities thrive. The program is called Bigger Than Beauty and they have over 300 partners giving to things like LGBTQ, and education, and racial and social justice causes. That's good, did I Thrive has so many high performance beauty and skincare products all made vegan and cruelty free for your I want your flesh to be I feel like you're the one Listen here, you need your lashes done? They are your head flushes Well, they're best selling mascara has over 20,000 five star reviews. They mimic the look of lash extensions without any damaging glue There's also this eye brightener that makes the eye flesh and a liquid balm lip treatment that gives your mouth flesh Again, all with the best and now is a great time to for yourself. Right now you can get when you visit That's Thrive Causemetics, C-A-U-S-E-M-E-T-I-C-S.com/morenews. For 15% off of your first order, for your flesh, F-L-E-S-H. Sorry, if I made it weird. (bright music) Hey, we're back. We are so back, we are blasting through Jordan Peterson in this And we're about to look at him through the lens of Jungian And we are going to (tense music) Not to be confused with or Furiosa from &quot;Fury Road&quot;. The persona is once again, how one Jordan Peterson And the most obvious archetype to start with is of course, the sage. I mentioned that he is a which Peterson is often praised for being. There's a reason a lot of are vertical 52nd YouTube Shorts with graphics and text all over them. Because a lot of his are shared on channels and &quot;The Mentorhouse&quot; and and like, &quot;Alpha-Brain you know, quick self-help which really encapsulates - Just try not to do things, you know, to be stupid And that means not to say things, you know to be stupid and wrong as well. Maybe that's the most important thing. Just do it as an experiment, and it's so fun because I from all over the world who They're saying, wow I cleaned up my room and then I stopped saying stupid things. And my God it's like, It's like, who would've guessed it. - Clean room, try not to Make sure you like the Okay, got it, all right. Thank you, Jorpi. Look, it's not bad advice, who are perhaps just Peterson will often spin coming up to him and telling him how much he helped them by dealing with a or approaching their immediate environment with more responsibility. And with these stories, I believe him because He was a practicing clinical so he can probably help I don't want to diminish your experience if he helped you clean your room, but they're not exactly that he can take or should of speed advice, and then in broad ways or pretending to weigh in on climate change, Again, this is president It's innocuous right up until And you see exactly this the teacher, because he was a teacher as in a literal professor. And while it's hard to rely on something like rate my professors, it that his professor rating is for the years he has been in the spotlight as a Dark Web intellectual, However, if you scroll you'll notice that his during the time he was less famous. But what I mainly want to point out, is that both the good that above all else, Jordan Peterson is a really good lecturer. He's passionate, entertaining, engaging, and unique in that regard. But what a lot of the average or poor reviews argue is that, his information is often flawed. Meanwhile, the positive with &quot;changing their lives&quot;. Which to me sounds like more than a teacher. In other words, he's great at talking, but doesn't seem to put it which you might realize is And while that's from a bunch of anonymous reviews on a website, everything I just said was and mentor and friend from named Bernard Schiff. According to his op-ed, Schiff was actually the He had campaigned for him, like an old widower trying to help a surly Bostonian genius. According to Schiff, Peterson, &quot;Objected in principle to &quot;by the university Upon reading his teaching reviews, Schiff noticed that students credited Peterson for But again like his online reviews, he also noticed students flagging him for &quot;delivered truths&quot;. And so finally Schiff decided to sit in on one of Peterson's classes to put it politely, Peterson was full of Or to quote the op-ed, &quot;Jordan presented conjecture many times throughout his lectures. Every time Schiff called him out for it, Peterson would acknowledge and that it was bad for him to do it before continuing to confidently or bull (beep) theories, like To quote the op-ed again, &quot;He was a preacher more than a teacher.&quot; Interesting phrasing that I'm but it seems like what made is directly related to his ability to state complete hogwash only an old white guy could get away with. In a lot of ways, he's a very simple man, perhaps not worthy of a which is why this video is so short. In that his secret is mainly just to lie, except boy, can he make those lies and wonky half truths sound credible. And to really show how I'm gonna take you through one of his most famous talking points. Remember that lobster Well, buckle up your pincers, has a lot of long clips - So these creatures engage And I think dominance is the cause lobsters aren't very empathic and they're not very social. And so it really is the You know, and what's so cool when a lobster wins, he So he looks bigger it's like he's advertising that. And the neurochemical is serotonergic. And you think, well, who cares? What the hell does that mean? Well tell you what it means, that's affected by And so like, if you're depressed, you're a defeated lobster like you're, you're like this, I'm small, I'm not, things are dangerous, I don't wanna fight. You give somebody an antidepressant, it's like up they stretch and then they're ready to like take on the world again. Well if you give lobsters in a fight serotonin, and they'll fight again. And that's like, we separated on the evolutionary time scale, somewhere between 350 and and the damn neurochemistry is the same. And so that's another indication of just how important I mean, they've been conserved since the time of lobsters, right? There weren't trees around when lobsters first manifested And so what that means that I've been talking about, those things are older than trees. - Okay, so first off, neat video. I don't know who made that, but good work. I felt like I was right So, Jordan's argument also is that when you give a they become puffed up and And that appears similar to what happens when you give a depressed human serotonin. And so, the mechanisms in are the same as us enforcing the idea that hierarchies, like, is somehow a natural occurrence that is built into our DNA, And he's so sure of this, that he has built a lot of and even sells lobster themed merchandise. But here's the thing. It turns out that if you people who study lobsters the reason why injecting makes them puff up, is causes aggression in invertebrate species. To quote a study from 1997, that Peterson is citing in his book, &quot;In vertebrates lowered levels of 5HT, endogenous or experimentally induced. Or changes in a mean neuron function that lower the effectiveness generally correlate with Whereas in invertebrates, the converse is believed to be true.&quot; Meaning, that lobsters, aka invertebrates, react aggressively to while the opposite is true for humans, The same goes for other boneless The only real takeaway, is that serotonin somewhat across the board, but In other words, Jordan's is this kind of wrong here, and cites the study that says he is wrong. Lobsters don't participate because they're given antidepressants. They participate because serotonin It's not puffing up because they're not depressed anymore. It's going, (Cody growling) but Peterson is basing an off of this very incorrect starting point. It's kinda like how the alpha male theory is based on a completely incorrect study that's been debunked for years. And generally speaking, trying to make any based on (beep) sea bugs is silly, as one marine biologist points out. Even if this information was accurate, Jordan's selection of the especially as it relates to humans. If you were to link these two species, you have to do it by going back to their most common recent ancestor. As in the point in which to create humans and lobsters. In this case, that would They're the size of a grain of rice, typically hermaphroditic. I'm so sorry, Jordan. And engage in zero social because they are worms. I'm not sure why I need to explain this, but my point here is that And to be clear, he's not exactly saying, we are like lobsters and we'll get to that But using lobsters to justify anything in human society, is silly. Even if his science was right, which it really, really isn't. Jordan is skipping over the part where everything evolved where society grew and But he loves talking about or pre societal concepts But in his, I don't know, defense. Jordan is also surfing and feelings here. We are deeply connected to every living and dead and never living. The rocks and trees and the Well not time literally, but they're quite old is my point. So if everything is connected and there's a natural hierarchy, if we're all just a bunch of protons and neutrons swimming around shouldn't that motivate And when you take progress into account survival of the fittest, has of the collaborative for It's not just about which individual can get to the top of the lobster pyramid. But Jordan's not going In fact, spoilers, he's going to make the And I think that's partially why when you stand back from it, really this entire lobster theory is all for him to point out Which is a thing that is absolutely true and provable without even Like, just look at monkeys, man. Not sure if you realize this, but primates are like closer And if the point of lobsters are super old or whatever, then just look at studies Heck, we know that human for at least 7,000 years. Why is he bringing up Well if I were a betting man, which I am, I would wager that Peterson likes lobsters because it implies human is somehow built into the - One of the truisms for from a Darwinian perspective is, that which has been around the longest period of time, right? Because it's had the to exert selection pressure. Well, we know we evolved something on the order we're talking 10 times as far back as that for the hierarchy. And so the idea that human beings, that the hierarchy is something that has exerted selection is I don't think that's a disputable, that's not a disputable issue. - See how he makes that when he says hierarchy, what we commonly associate As in a system where people or groups are ranked with few or one at the top, but that's not exclusive to Lions and female mongooses of their young, for example. African wild dogs will in each hunting pack, and don't have an aggressive And even take care of The point being that hierarchies are indeed everywhere but don't necessarily adhere to that shape he's always doing with his hands. Not to mention that you can easily rethink or redefine that structure. Corporations have a board of directors and not a single person. Co-op businesses function But what Jordan is setting up here, is that that very rigid few at the top, pyramid shape is the natural older than he wants to push with his lobster theory. He goes on after this inspiring clip to talk about it from a Darwinian here is notably a placeholder for survival of the fittest, that's what he's actually talking about. He is justifying this because chemicals made lobsters fight to get a limited resource. But he's also omitting how and change because of the environment. A species with lots of space tend to have no dominance But when they're put in a zoo and limited trees, that dynamic changes, much like the prison rules of But by presenting this one as some kind of unwavering truth, he's laying a specific groundwork, based on bad science for how like, poverty and sexism and racism. A shorthand, he can refer back to. - Organisms that have to Well if I were a betting man, which I am, with other organisms of their type, inevitably arrange And that's been going on for so long, which is at least 300 million years, that our nervous systems as if they are permanent More permanent than trees But the most fundamental neurochemical, the one that regulates the is acutely sensitive to And so that's part of the proposition. So, the reason I laid was to say, whatever pitfalls that's not a disputable issue. you cannot lay them at the or capitalism, it's like, you are wrong. - See, he's circling real studies about how the chemicals in our brains will react to our social status. But the conclusion he's drawing is absurd, mainly because he's equating stuff like the patriarchy or capitalism And so again, I think that's why he's to cover up the reality that as in very few at the top, are absolutely artificial and more importantly, malleable. In fact, scientists generally believe that our ancestors were as in considered those within before agriculture created a more rigid and unfair hierarchy. That isn't to say that hierarchies lobsters proved that they did. But this information really of a really rigid hierarchy, the pyramid he's making with started with our first big industry, agriculture on a large scale, creates the need for and leads to fewer people at the very top. And while that was vital that information creates a pesky gray area when actually talking or should work or could work. It implies that the shape of and therefore can be changed. And I don't think that works So instead of talking about this, he talks about a bunch that have nothing to do with humans. But once you believe his lie, that number one, rigid and number two, concepts like capitalism are synonymous with natural hierarchies, you can then be taken on a - And when you implement a solution to a complex problem socially, you produce a hierarchy because some people are better at the implementation than others. So, there's a hierarchy of competence, and then there's a hierarchy And so, in both of those hierarchies, you get a disproportionate and dispossession at the bottom, it's in the nature of hierarchies. So what's the left for? The left is to remind those who are benefiting from the hierarchies, that the hierarchy comes at a cost, and the cost is the clumping And that that's an eternal And so that's what the left The left should be providing the voice of those who are and the right should be saying, yeah, but the damn And they're not only necessary, Then the left says, yes, but and they can be occupied inappropriately by people who are playing games of power. Fair enough, the right has The hierarchy can rigidify will react to our social status. But the conclusion he's drawing is absurd, and is likely to do that. And it can be taken over and that's likely to happen. And so, but it's okay because the dialogue can work out, the right can say, well, yeah, we need the damn hierarchies and the left can say yes, but they have to be maintained properly, so they don't deteriorate and degenerate. And I think that's ancient wisdom, I think the ancient Egyptians in their symbolic representations. - Ah yes, ancient Egyptians, famously known for taking care This is where we get back around and why I think he seems He's speaking from a centrist perspective and pointing out flaws from but mostly the left, which and logical and an Of course he's also stating like they are facts, which his students and But putting aside the fact a flawed perception of or his weird conclusion that every hierarchy is the same shape or that every hierarchy but also reflects competency. Here's how Jordan finishes his thought. - So the left can't just demolish the hierarchies equality of outcome let's say, because you blow out the future, you leave people aimless and you destroy the very to make competent progress in the world, that's not an acceptable outcome. So we have to, we have to agree to live with the tension. So, there's a hierarchy of competence, and then there's a hierarchy Necessity for hierarchies, the proclivity for them to pathologize and the necessary voice of the left in speaking for the dispossessed. - So his conclusion to is that we should do nothing. It's all just find the way it is, how very, very convenient. So just to recap, using bad science, Jordan Peterson laid down that hierarchies specifically, every dominance hierarchy are rooted in our nature, ignoring the fact that more rigid and unequal hierarchies And just because something is in nature, doesn't mean it's good or necessary every time you see it. He then lumps in other like capitalism and the patriarchy into this broad concept of hierarchy, framing them as unmovable concepts we can't do anything about. He's a guy in medieval feudalism is good and natural, and we need it because has existed since before Next, he takes the stance stepping outside of politics to ponder what this all means, and then concludes that ultimately there isn't anything to be done and that the people on the are incorrect to do that. And to make it seem centrist it's the duty of the right that comes with what he's spun except that's very conveniently a conservative view, isn't it? Because the truth he's laid out while pretending it's an impartial idea actually supports right the very concept of capitalism or whatever the current because it involves hierarchies. And then his conclusion doesn't have to change at all. It's a magic trick, flim-flam, as the kids say. And this step by step pattern of bad logic actually resonates throughout everything Jordan Peterson argues. You start by, very that isn't actually true or accurate. Then you build off that real information or or other things that have or rhetorical connections that very wrong starting point. You draw conclusion based on that, then equate that conclusion and political ideas. Treating the comparison Suddenly you've taken a human made problem and made it seem rooted in science and nature, unchangeable. And so the only logical we can't do anything about it. At best he will conclude very complicated or no solution and moving on. All of it, coincidentally, designed to protect the status quo often the one set by conservatives by wearing down his audience until they're willing to We'll call it the Peterson Pattern, because PP like a dick. It's honestly a very impressive technique that he uses for almost everything. But once you see it, you - So and the data on this and it's the same with private schools. The reason that people do better than people is because generally speaking, the people who go into It's not the education that's any better. The liberals won't take into Well obviously that's part of what the whole politically It's like, everyone's the same. It's like, yeah, they're not. (audience laughing) Like I love to come to Silicon Valley I've been here many, many times and like, it's really something to come here and, and meet. There's so many people here who are off the scale's intelligent and they're all, clustered together, which is why this place and so unbelievably But it's very, it's also very annoying that it's so left-leaning. Because one of the things that the left-leaning Silicon Valley geniuses should understand that is that, they're the beneficiary And to make it seem centrist it's the duty of the right and they should take that seriously. It's like, yeah, yeah, you worked hard. Yes, you're an entrepreneur. Yes you're on point, you put in your 60 hours a week, you do everything you could, but you have an IQ of 150 and like, that's not your doing, right. That's something that happened to you. Now that doesn't mean I think that people of shouldn't be rewarded disproportionately it's possible that they should, because it might be in the to dump as much money as possible to the top 2% of the cognitive strata, because they're going to And so, and even if it's not fair, because you might say, well, just because he does that mean that you should have more money than anyone else? It's like, well, not on but if you have to distribute money, well who are you gonna distribute it to? - Did you catch all of that? He starts by stating that it's a fact that smarter kids get which teach the same as public schools. He's not wrong that are more or less the except private schools tend to prepare kids more for the SATs, but then he completely only about 12% of private school students are there because of full scholarships. The rest either have some financial aid or can just afford to be there. The obvious answer there is, money, something he completely skips over when talking about why people One of the reasons he says is that they have high IQs. Hey, what are the other reasons Jorpson? But most importantly, this is all to equate with being wealthy. Doesn't seem to stop to that produce wealth or wealth despite him stating and education are in early development. And so he implies that wealth inequality, therefore follows some But while it's actually true that people with a higher IQ are more likely to have a higher salary, studies have shown that they're to make bad decisions with because the way IQ works of certain mental facilities that often mesh well with a but don't necessarily equate or actually being intelligent. One example being, how This study from the Ohio State University looked at over 7,000 people and specifically found despite making more money, ultimately had just as much money as people with average IQs, they concluded it was weren't saving their money, which is funny because Jordan's last point is that if we had to distribute money, it would make sense to because they would certainly Also IQ testing is fucking racist, it's eugenics shit, especially when proposing to those with higher IQs, shouldn't be taken seriously at all and doesn't have any place And boy, we will circle A lot of circling this So once again, he laid equating wealthy schools and students with wealth and high IQs, then extended it to Silicon Valley and makes the conclusion that it must mean high IQ but should have all the money even if it's not &quot;fair&quot;. And once again, he treats his assessment like a wise centrist - And liberals, see the liberals think everyone's roughly equal and there's a job for everyone you just have to train And the conservatives think, well there's a job for everyone if they just get off their ass and work, it's like, no, no, that's wrong too. Even though if you work, that's better and well, so that that's - See how he slips a win in there at the end for conservatives. So he's once again linked bad science about how IQs work with like wealth and schools as if they are forces of nature. He completely ignored any other factor, like inherited wealth, race, gender, your fucking zip code. And instead concludes that smart people naturally have wealth. And so rich people must be smart and that's why they're rich and then he hits us with this. - Well hopefully you're going to do some halfways intelligent things with it. And hopefully you'd expect that would do more than halfway So if you have to have then a meritocracy is probably but it still leaves you with what do you do with all the people who stack up at zero? And the answer isn't because they don't work as hard as you. It's like yeah bunch of them don't, because conscientiousness So among the poor, there but you never wanna of cognitive ability. So it's rough man and we don't take it seriously and we don't know what to do about it. - [Interviewer] Yeah. - And it's clear that societies destabilize, that's clear. So it's something that but we don't know how to deal with it. - Oh, I guess there's He recognizes wealth just like he recognizes unjust but he's presented them both and concludes that there's You know, so that things Nevermind the fact that there are absolutely proposed ways He presumably dismisses those based on this bizarre starting idea that high IQ people are And therefore we should give all the money to high IQ people, and there's nothing we The logic is staggering And so because he presents or a complex problem, you might make the he must be right. But the reality is that he is making it confusing and complex and hard to solve. It's why you might notice that one of his favorite things to say is, well it's complicated. And he often does this by referring to a lot of intellectual sounding concepts. He likes to mix and match all with the goal of presenting inequality as a natural occurrence And that's not the fault - If you look at any creative endeavor that human beings engage in. So that would be an endeavor where there's variability in and it doesn't matter what it is, here's what happens. People compete to And almost everybody produces zero, they lose completely. A small minority are a tiny bit successful and a hyper minority And so the Pareto distribution for, and the Pareto distribution is, is the what geometric graph representation of that phenomena. And so here's how it manifests itself. If you have 10,000 people, a hundred of them have half the money. So the rule is the square under consideration have half of whatever it is that's under consideration. So this works everywhere. So if you took a hundred 10 of them produce half And then if you take the 10 composers and you take a thousand of their songs, 30 of those songs, which is the square root of are played 50% of the time. And so there's this which is it's expressed which is from a New Testament statement. The statement is, of cognitive ability. to those who have everything and from those who have nothing, everything will be taken. It's a vicious statement, but it's actually, here's one of those places where it's actually empirically true. This happens everywhere. And so what Marx observed was that capital tended to accumulate in the hands of fewer and fewer people. And he said, that's a flaw That's wrong. It's not a flaw of the capitalist system, it is a feature of every that we know of, no matter who set it - Never mind the fact that popularity and talent have nothing to do with economic equality. What Jordan is breezing past there is something called the Pareto Principle, which is a ratio that states that only 20% of a group is It can be easy to misunderstand if only because those two numbers aren't mathematically related. They happen to add up to 100%, but aren't percentages of the same thing. The origin came from Vilfredo Pareto, who first observed that was owned by 20% of the people. He went on to notice that 20% of the pea pods in his garden were producing 80% of the peas because his observations were about both nature and economics, some people have decided And when I say some people, I think you know who I mean. - One of the things that you'll find, if you look at creative it doesn't matter. Artistic domain, food production, And that's not the fault novels written, novels number of companies generated, number of goals scored Any, or number of paintings painted, number of compositions written, anything like that where the fundamental underlying What you find is that a very produce almost all the output. It's called a Pareto distribution, P-A-R-E-T-O. Pareto distributions govern for example the distribution of money. Which is why 1% of the people have the overwhelming amount of money. And one tenth of that 1% has almost all of that. And you think well that's a terrible thing and perhaps it is. But what you have to understand is that that law governs the distribution of creative production across It's something like a natural law. - Jordan loves talking as it relates to income inequality, concluding it to be a natural law because it's, according to him, something that occurs in everything from novels to food production, except a bit of a snag, it doesn't, well it does sometimes and it doesn't many other times. For example, in food production, the USDA found that family provide 88% of all production that doesn't really Though to be fair, it is from the cultural On the flip side only 1.3% of traditionally published authors make over $100,000 on their books, while 53% make under $1,000, that doesn't follow the rule either. You know what else also doesn't follow the rule Currently in the USA the top Shouldn't Dr. Peterson be screaming about how we need to get it down to 80%. If you Google it you'll that supposedly follow this 20/80 rule, everything from social to how disease spreads. The problem is that, almost all of these lists are impossible to actually Because generally is the rule of thumb people apply to things like marketing and management. In a lot of ways, it becomes A manager will read somewhere produce 80% of the work, and then give raises based on that, never bothering to check Every time we try to fact it really seems to lead back to that. For example, here's an of a store's product but there's no data you If you go on Wikipedia, they give a single example Saying that 20% of the movies but the only source is an that says, &quot;Many stores suggest that something like&quot; &quot;80% of their revenues stem That's it, there's no hard data here it's just like a loose estimate. As far as I can tell, no one has recreated nor does that come up with any other crop. And in fact, there are seen in nature and economics that don't follow this idea. Like hey Jordan, did you where less than 10% of on research for diseases that affect over 90% of the population? How does that fit in Is it good? In other words, the Pareto principle is it's kind of a saying, like, don't put all or a dick in the toaster Where people will use the Others argue that it's Peterson uses the rule to claim that as you expand your company, competence at the top is linear and incompetence increases exponentially because you can't like, If you replace the unproductive do they magically become Now this isn't all to but rather subjective and or cosmic force that Although there is something with data, backing it up called Pareto more specifically the double Here's a paper laying out the math I'm sure Peterson will And some examples and graphs which can be more or less Wiki described as a situation where an equilibrium is found in the distribution it's this shape. There are varying degrees distribution of large or large oil fields to little oil fields. It's a distribution And Peterson seems to think it's everywhere and great every time. - It's a very, very vicious statistic. And you won't learn for reasons I have no idea about. - Yeah, no idea why this random ratio that shows up sometimes, but also often doesn't, isn't You might notice that in these videos, Jordan will also mention or talk about ratios That's because he'll often with something called Price's Law, often in the same breath. He'll sort of mix and match as if they are all related in some way. - It's called a Pareto And it was studied in detail by someone named de Solla Price. It's a square root law so If you look at the number who are in a given domain who are producing in a given domain, the square root of the people produce half the product. So that means if you have 10 employees, three of them do half the work. But if you have 10,000 employees, a hundred of them do half the work. - Now Price's law when it was specific to scientific papers. Stating half of the will be contributed by the square root of the total number of authors That has since been that 50% of work done at any company is produced by a small Not 80/20 but again, there's no data here. In fact, when we looked into it, we didn't just fail to find but rather we succeeded at finding a series of that there's nothing solid as a serious theory, nor does it really connect or the Matthew effect. The latter saying that, famous people tend to get than non-famous people who helped out, or the basic idea, the rich get richer. These are all perfectly fine ideas, but all of them are considered hypotheses and not some kind of natural law, but Jordan loves ignoring that fact as well as mixing and into a turdurken of false facts. And then warping they're to support the idea that a hierarchy of privileged people on top. is natural and good and That the rich and powerful are there because they deserve it somehow, because it's much easier that something is unchangeable, if it seems to follow a Dude loves throwing out numbers this way. He's a big fan of little percentages of something leading to big But if you haven't noticed yet, it's all kind of gibberish when you look into the and how he's talking about them. They sound informed, but equate to nothing nor does it recognize actual data or just how people work or reality. And so going back to Peterson's persona him as the sage and Well, it really seems like as in someone seeking to use magic, AKA, lying for their own purpose. Also there's the magical way he decides to pronounce - I just watched Joaquin and he's a very charismatic actor. - Come on, man no one says it like that. Also, you notice that he always makes little magician fingers when he talks not sure what that's about maybe he's casting a spell. And in general, the magic is often rooted in very as well as a general need mythology and lore, like say a chicken and a grass hopper, but specifically biblical imagery. And even more specifically, even when it doesn't really make sense. Like here's a super cut of Jorpson, talking about a bunch of supposedly completely different things. - God doesn't punish Cain and you think that's kind of strange. I mean the Old Testament God he's punishing people it's like why not Cain? There's this idea in Cain and Abel. It's like Cain and Abel. Cain and Abel. it's Cain and Cain and Abel. - Dude's weird, weird guy. And the way he speaks really comes across as a sort of quirky Hogwarts professor spinning white hot ropes of magic to get his point across. But again, in this case, the magic is more often half truths and outright lies grandiose confidence. He really wants the world to rooted in our history and mythology and will find that meaning in literally everything he teaches. - So this is (indistinct) I think I've got that right. But I just love that represe... It's so insanely cool this representation. So you see this sort of, the primary mother and father of humanity emerging from this underlying snake-like, entity with its tails tangled together. I think that's a representation I really do believe this, although it's very I really believe that's because it's much easier So, and that representation that entwined double helix that is everywhere. You can see it in And I'm using the because they were isolated in Australia for like 50,000 years. They're the most archaic people that were ever discovered. And they have clear representations of these double helix So, and those are the two giant serpents out of which the world is made. - So sure, perhaps these drew these snakes intertwined because they represent And these people secretly knew that, And so going back to Peterson's persona or, you know, maybe it's because that's when they do sex with each other. So if you wanted to draw two snake people creating the world or whatever, it seems like you'd draw them on the express bus to pound town. Also DNA doesn't really it's more like a twisted ladder than two ropes spooning each other. It seems like Jordan but instead has decided to that early humans knew because of serpent coitus. And at least some of those students are going to believe him and then enter the world with that belief and then get jobs where they're in charge of others and making important decisions. Now for the record, I don't think Peterson actually knows he's being deceptive for the most part, or maybe he does who the hell knows. And we will explore that in a bit. But for the most part, I think he's just a he's smarter than most, or all and therefore has the best opinions that are so good and best that he presents them as actual facts. And so as a teacher, As a self-help guru, that's fine I guess we distort facts all the and for good reason. I know this because I myself and can do a back flip, more back flips than you. But Peterson is more than just a terrible yet inspiring teacher obviously, because Peterson has long graduated from being some random professor from the paddock town of Toronto. As we noted Jordan rose to fame from becoming a prominent those who admire him challenging the status quo which brings us to the the outlaw. The first story that put J Pete on the map comes from the fall of 2016. When Peterson began trending of Canada's gender In a series of extremely I wonder what that's like. Peterson claimed, that C-16 He claimed that C-16 counted as compelled speech forcing to use specific words, To quote an interview, Bill C-16 writes &quot;Social constructionism Social constructionism is a doctrine that all human roles are socially constructed. They're detached from and from the underlying objective world. So Bill C-16 contains and an implicit assault on the Hey Jordan, you know what is an assault on objective Anyway when speaking to the Toronto Sun, Peterson claimed these laws are the first laws that I've seen, that require people under the to employ certain words, instead of merely limiting what they're allowed to say so the laws put words into our mouths. It was a big public stink as Peterson boldly he will not be forced to of his students. Though recently he's also said if someone legitimately needed him to use their legal name or pronouns, and if they were trying to trick him. Though also every chance he and calls him her. So maybe not actually the but the point is, no law such as C-16 And if they dared to jail him, he would go on a hunger strike to defend our precious - If they fined me, I won't pay it. If they put me in jail, I'll go on a hunger strike. - Wow that's some real If the government of Canada is indeed threatening to jail teachers for using the wrong that will be straight up dystopian. When do we all revolt I got my war rig all warmed up it's just sitting there in except wait, here's an idea let's look at what Bill because it turns out that Bill C-16 is just an amendment to the adding the words gender identity, as a protected group in three sections of the original act, and that's it. It adds trans folk into the list of groups protected from discrimination race, sex disabilities, and religions. And it amended the criminal and hate speech to include gender identity on that list as well. And that's it, it didn't force anyone to lest they'd be jailed. It's extremely innocuous. And for like discrimination C-16 was later passed nothing changed. I mean except for trans people having a tad more rights to no one was jailed for because of course they weren't. In other words, everything Peterson was taking this bold stance against, hunger strike threats, freedom It was never in this bill something anyone who simply he was performing theater, virtue signaling against trans rights and putting himself in the spotlight as a free speech warrior. Yes he apparently was asked by his bosses at the University of Toronto to respect the pronouns of students, but not under the penalty of jail time. Just like to make school but also just fucking say okay and do it, or use they or call them Because you're a teacher in and not a big, weird baby, but of course Jordan got big and famous for his anti-trans pretending to be about freedom of speech stance and has been playing the hits ever since. - But the suspension will not be lifted unless I delete the and I would rather die than do that. - Just delete it, man it's easy. Jordan the outlaw retired in 2017 from his role at the but kept his tenure until recently. He has since broken up with &quot;An appalling ideology of &quot;is demolishing education and business.&quot; Dude literally quit because Going on to say that his heterosexual white male graduate students weren't getting enough research positions. To me it's pretty clear has officially found it way more lucrative to play the role of a right wing grifter going on speaking tours and writing useless books than to work a regular job that might provide something for society like me and my important work with Warmbo. Because clearly his lobster ideology got in the way of his which is what inclusion The thing about Peterson's and equity and all that, is that he never gives an alternative if he can't admit that or acknowledge that there is a very in places like the that is still reverberating then he's unserious. And if he acknowledges it, he needs to admit he should be done about it, but apparently he can't seem to accept working with trans or And so he's just gonna be this conservative loud mouth instead. Of course, funny fact, if if he's a right-winger, he would actually disagree with you. - Their basic proposition is that, first of all that I'm a and that's just not the case. - So apparently there's an argument that Jordan Peterson is not a right-winger and he is one of the And a lot of others have pointed out that most of what he teaches is about philosophy and apolitical and his anti PC culture stuff and doesn't reflect the full The fact that he has attracted some far right fans, but by at least some accounts, his audience tends to be pretty diverse. So you could argue that calling is a bad strategy because it paints the everything he talks about as if he is not against And he's occasionally the He went viral for apparently saying we should have enforced monogamy to solve the incel problem, as if he was proposing mandatory wives for depressed young men. But he wasn't actually saying that. - What do you mean by enforced monogamy? - Well, we could start I don't mean taking and handing them over to useless men. (audience laughs) Which is essentially the accusation, and it was really interesting What I meant was that, Jordan the outlaw retired in 2017 monogamy, as something He has since broken up with is appears to be essentially That doesn't mean that human beings are universally monogamous we can be serially monogamous and some people are players and have multiple but there's a strong proclivity across known societies going on speaking tours and writing useless books And the enforcement is social norms. - Fair enough I mean I but the point is that he to say that we should stress Which again, not sure I agree with that, but maybe I'll ask This is all to say that Peterson isn't exactly your Ben in that he allegedly doesn't actively push right wing talking points and often comes across as reasonable. And again, as a self-help guru, I would argue that he's generally, probably, maybe okay at it. Of course I'm not a self-help expert, so maybe he's actually terrible, but it should stand out that while Peterson and the radical left types using extremely flawed arguments, he almost never points often unfairly so, for example. - [Jordan] I think what I would've done was walk into the voting booth with the intention of voting for Clinton and then at the last minute gone, to hell with it, I'm not doing it and voted for Trump. I think that's what I would've done. And I thought about it a lot afterwards. I mean, for the entire election virtually, I thought well, Clinton has and his anti PC culture stuff at least keep the status So in some sense, she was a conservative choice because she'd been in So, but then as the campaign continued and she continued to beat louder and louder, I became more and more concerned about her political direction - Once again, he takes claiming that he would've except noting that it would've and then decides that ultimately he would've voted for Trump instead because Trump doesn't Trump famous for not politicizing religion or race social background and saying, I love Christmas or calling Mexicans rapists or bragging about how rich he is. Clearly it was only Clinton who totally unprompted by her opponent, resorted to identity politics. Interesting how all of Jordan's totally centrist beliefs always land on the side of the right wing, even when his reasoning makes zero sense. And in fact, when you look at he sure seems to be a right-winger who specifically pushes identity politics as well as strongly and so-called traditional values. Like I'm sorry to quote the (beep) Wikipedia definition but at its baseline, right-wing politics is a support of the view and hierarchies are inevitable, natural, normal, or desirable, typically supporting this position on the basis of natural law, economics authority or tradition. Natural law, inevitable literally everything from those Peterson was a political science major and so it is absurd that people categorize him as right wing. - Their basic proposition is that, first of all, that I'm a and that's just not the case. - Like literally the thing he's famous for is taking something in nature and using it to promote and defend hierarchies as inevitable and just the rest of And to dig more into this, we're going to move out of the persona section of this video and dive into the Jungian archetype of, the shadow. (mysterious music) But not just any old stupid shadow we're gonna talk about the Alec Baldwin with a fake knows of it all if you will. This manifests in the stark difference between what Peterson claims he is, a logical moderate thinker and teacher with who he actually is, which is a right leaning In fact, considering some of the ideas and people he props up, you could argue that Jordan Peterson is far, far right leaning. For example, here's a you know, the guy this video is about, signal boosting what he calls, &quot;The largest study ever done Diversity being a thing and probably pretends And wouldn't you know it, it's a link from the American conservative and concludes that diverse This 2007 Harvard study of 26,200 people in 40 American communities, found that people questioned in more diverse areas of the country displayed less trust in the as well as neighbors. Jordan shares this with his But the conclusion drawn here is that diversity is bad after all, this is a 130 question or the largest study ever done, except hey, fun fact, wasn't taken specifically It was actually data called the Social Capital and only five of the questions And when other researchers took a look at the data they found, that this original conclusion For example, the survey what a diverse neighborhood is, their measurement 80% whites and 20% blacks It also didn't ask questions specifically relating to trust as it pertains to community or diversity. What I mean is, that different races in general will often have different regardless of where they live. So of course an area with more diversity will have more people of things like authority, And finally, as an aside, it found that the people who displayed the highest level of were white people living Golly gosh, that sure sounds like a, different issue than diversity. Feels like there's a different Not to mention that the original author of that Harvard study spoke out to say, that his research was that diversity was bad. &quot;In the short term, he writes, there are clearly challenges, but over the long haul, he argues that diversity has a range of benefits for a society and that the fragmentation And going back to that specific American conservative article covering it, the one Peterson shared it actually mocks the to clarify his study as a weak parody of, Bertolt Brecht's parody after the failed 1953 uprising against the East German puppet regime. And then I assume the It goes hard into the idea that this flimsy survey proves that diversity is bad actually, a huge chunk of that about the very white author living in Chicago's uptown district and how little he trusted his neighbors. Hey, like the survey said. And then goes into another personal story about going to Mexico and how diversity there, is also bad. It's a really meandering article that spends very little time on the actual study that Peterson mentioned in this tweet. The study whose abstract says, &quot;In the long run, however,&quot; &quot;successful immigrant societies&quot; &quot;have overcome such fragmentation&quot; &quot;by creating new cross-cutting &quot;and more encompassing identities.&quot; &quot;Illustrations of becoming &quot;are drawn from the US Military, &quot;and earlier waves of But the article doesn't mention that. And you kind of have to this telling of it instead of a straightforward news story that includes the other parts. But the framing of this specific American conservative article becomes less of a mystery when you consider its author, Steve Sailer who is, that this original conclusion For example, the survey a (beep) white supremacist. Steve writes for the Unz Review, a site that has let's say not so great things to say about the Jews and sure doesn't think Sailer himself has written about how white people have higher IQs, oh good, more IQ stuff. And once wrote in an article and the supposed looting, &quot;What you won't hear except from me, is that let the good times roll is an especially risky The plain fact is, that they tend to possess than members of better educated groups. Thus they need stricter So yeah, Steve Sailer sure and it was Steve's extremely bad and unacademic interpretation that Jordan Peterson a chose to share with the world. Seems like a super smart professor guy should have caught all this if I'm being charitable, we could say that Peterson was simply incurious and gullible and really wanted to confirm his bias that diversity is bad as opposed to willfully propping up a known white supremacist, if I'm being charitable. Because he's also found regarding IQ and race with and eventually admitted white supremacist. Also incidentally, Steve Sailer is the originator of what is which partially influenced Donald Trump. The Sailer strategy proposed that Republican candidates in American elections by white workers with hetero and economic populist positions. Protectionism, identity politics, and opposition to immigration, et cetera. But like Peterson said, Hillary Clinton is the one who played identity politics, not Trump. And hey, on the subject I'm going to show you one of the most subtly insidious clips of Dr. Jordan B. Peterson that I have. He discusses the issue in several videos, one with Molyneux himself and refers to it as the most horrifying fact he has ever heard. And it's the main reason I've always wanted this Here we go. - One of the most terrifying statistics I ever came across was, one detailing out the rationale of the United States armed forces for not allowing the induct, you can't induct anyone in the US if they have an IQ less than 83. &quot;and earlier waves of Okay so let's just take because it's a horrifying thing. So the US armed forces has been in the forefront of intelligence research since world war I, because they were on board especially during war time, when you're ramping up quickly, that you need to sort people effectively and essentially without prejudice so that you can build so you don't lose the war. Okay so there's real cause it's life and death They did a lot of the early - Okay two things. Number one, everything The armed forces don't do IQ tests and don't have a rule about they just don't. They do have something called the armed forces qualification test, but have said that those tests do not perfectly match up with an IQ test and the requirements are flexible. You can do poorly on the test and still get into the military. Also as I noted, IQ tests aren't exactly perfect anyway, in that they suck and are racist. Secondly, Jordan tries by talking up how during World War I, the military took IQ really seriously and therefore conducted really good tests except we know that's not true either. In fact, the tests at the time were extremely flawed and mainly focused on familiarity with American culture as opposed to any universal intelligence. Like they were specifically and historically seen as bad. You could just go on So where did he get that 83 number from? Well before I answer that, I wanna play more of this clip. - The United States armed to get people into the armed forces, peace time or war time. War time well for obvious reasons, peace time, because well first of all, you gotta keep the armed forces going and second, you can use the armed forces during peace time as out of the underclass and moving them up into the working class or the middle class, right. You can use it as a training mechanism and so there's and left and right can agree on that it's a reasonable way of So again the armed forces, even in peace time is very motivated to get as many people and it's difficult as well. You, it's not that easy to recruit people so you don't wanna throw people So what's the upshot of all that. Well after a hundred years essentially, of statistic, careful the armed forces concluded that if you had an IQ of 83 or less, there wasn't anything you could possibly be trained to do in the military at any level of the organization that wasn't positively counterproductive. for not allowing the induct, Okay you think well, so what 83 okay. Yeah one in 10, in the US if they have an IQ less than 83. Okay so let's just take one in 10. That's one in 10 people. because it's a horrifying thing. And that, what that really means that as far as I can tell is, if you imagine that the military is approximately as complex - [Interviewer] Yes. - Which I think is a then there's no place in our for one in 10 people. - Okay so what he's saying is that by this military standard, that again, doesn't actually exist. If your IQ is below 83, then there's nothing you or contribute to it in any way. In fact, there's nothing And that applies to society as a whole based on, just his opinion. Like, because you can't which is desperate for recruits, but also needs to be maximally efficient, you can't do stuff There's just nothing for you to do. You got the bad number on the test. So you're just maybe gonna the ultimate sin. So where is he going with this? - So what are we gonna do about that? The answer is, no one knows, say well shovel money down the hierarchy. It's like the problem isn't lack of money. I mean, sometimes that's the problem, but the problem is It's rarely that, it is It's not that easy to move so first of all, it's not Like they were specifically So it's a vicious problem man. - Oh of course, what do I just made up? I don't know, it's a mystery. And so he just leaves us claiming that one in which they aren't and presents the only two choices, even though they're not, which we can't do, even though we can, and that they can't do And therefore there's simply no solution for these let's call them useless eaters. But of course, if you're say a fascist, you probably have a solution. One that's pretty final. And Peterson probably knows that, he probably knows this is the but won't say it, it's horrifying. Same way, he knows that by on diversity from before, he's pushing people to It's the reason why he never but simply says that no one He loves to lead people down a steep hill toward horrible conclusions, and then let go at the last second so he can pretend to be impartial. But as we've been pointing out the facts he keeps throwing out there are almost always false. And this is when I tell you that the claim that the military doesn't allow people which is false, seems to come from a single academic paper written 20 years ago and says it's actually less than 80. There's no other origin for this that we can find just this one paper that is approximately as complex and was written by a woman back in the '90s. Linda made it into the newspapers for conducting studies on race and IQ that were funded by a group Which is literally a that was founded by again So whether or not he Jordan Peterson is basically just relaying Nazi propaganda in this video. And the optimistic, extremely is that he's simply ignorant of that. Although according to Peterson, &quot;I've studied Nazism for four decades and I understand it very well. And I can tell you there lurking in the corners And if the radical left keeps pushing the way it's pushing, So if you don't stop doing things, I and Nazis don't like, then the Nazis from over Oh so maybe he actually does know about how they burned the sexuality institute. That's worse, probably. He has had fans ask him and to his credit he but also he made it about IQ. And although he is correct that a lot of the alt-right don't like him for pushing back on ethnic nationalism, his pushback is, you don't play racial, ethnic The left plays them on behalf and the right tends to play them on behalf of nationalism and ethnic pride, I think they're equally dangerous. Equally dangerous stuff, acknowledging and trying to rectify the well-documented racist history of a nation and thinking other races are inferior and wanting them to be dead. He's just a moderate thinking, regular Joe-erdan Peterson. Anyway, I guess my point is that, Dr. Jordan B. Peterson has a, he has a lecture called &quot;You Probably Would've Been a Nazi&quot;. And it's like a sort of your environment in society affects you. And maybe it's true. To be clear, I am not saying I'm just saying he - You have to admire because he was an organizational genius. - Anyway, this is not the or maybe purposefully walked into fascist nonsense sword first. In fact, remember one of that Pareto distribution stuff. Well it might be good that Vilfredo Pareto inspired, that person being one person, that one person being Mussolini. In fact, before his death Mussolini's rise to power as necessary to implement the system he desired. Although people have speculated that he ultimately would had he stuck around, but in general, Pareto's theories are often because they prop up the idea that there's a natural In 1909, Pareto developed something called the income curve. A graph based on data he collected from wealth and income from a from a bunch of different eras, the results didn't resemble a bell curve or normal distribution, but rather a very large at the bottom rung and a few at the top. And so based on this, Pareto concluded, that democracy was a lie and that this unjust distribution where the very few got all the spoils was in the nature of man. Thing is even if that's true, Pareto ultimately concludes that the very idea of progress is a sham, which is why this is or totalitarian rulers. It's also an incredibly to claim that inequality is a natural law that we can't do anything about. Oh so maybe he actually does know about After all gravity is a natural law too, but we constantly defy it with airplanes and rockets and killer kick flips. It's also not exactly so much as a symptom of But if you're paying attention, you might notice that this is exactly what Jordan Peterson is pushing with all that lobster hog wash, as well as his weird should have all the money and how low IQ people should be well, who can say. And of course him sharing works by a white supremacist who loves to claim that white people are the smartest people and also the game Monopoly. - Well imagine what happens when you play Monopoly, what happens? Everybody has the same amount So then you start playing, it's basically a random game. Well some people start to win a bit some people start to lose a bit, and then if you win the probability that you'll keep winning And if you lose your vulnerability and then maybe you've got, say, six people playing Monopoly, soon one person has zero. What happens when they have zero? They're outta the game. So zero's a weird number cause when you hit zero, So then if you keep playing people start to stack up at zero, right? What happens at the end of the game? One person has all the and everyone else has none. Right that's what happens if you play an iterated trading game and that's part of the law in a sense that's underlying this So it's a, it's really it's not a consequence necessarily of structural inequality, it's built into the system - So inequality is built and not structural or manmade because it occurs naturally, in a 100 year old game that simulates a or did the first Monopoly If Monopoly actually grows from a plant, then somebody please let me know and I will apologize for pointing out how hilariously bad this argument is and how it in fact proves literally the opposite of what he's saying. In fact, Monopoly was originally called, the Landlord Game and was specifically how the quest to amass in (beep) over everyone else and well, monopolies. That's why you can become a railroad baron and people arbitrarily go to jail and are punished for So Peterson could have before acting like it's but I feel like he doesn't actually care. And like bad jazz, you gotta listen to what He's pointing to the as proof that inequality is inevitable. If money is exchanged randomly, if everything is random. He seems to not grasp that the game of money was made up by us and the rules are ours and we can restart the and the distribution and happens via decisions made by people. He's just snatching up so many straws, throwing so much against the wall. And the third analogy about all to overwhelm his audience into accepting his very wrong ideas about how all hierarchies work and how they're inevitable and good. You probably noticed how much time I have to spend on a single or like a 30 second clip of him talking, or simply having to summarize the beautiful six minutes of talking about how chicken hoppers during inflation prove climate models are all wrong. That's generally the problem with folks like him and Ben Shapiro in that their answers are it's a fire hose of needlessly complicated or misleading (beep). It just takes so long to let them talk and then break it all down, don't look at the timestamp. Anyway, because of all of this and all of his apolitical posturing, Peterson can easily pretend but simply an impartial academic that the left is too scared to debate. - There's no attempt really, to contend with the It's all vilification and that's because they can't contend with the issues that I'm raising. - The idea that his haters Jordan Peterson is raising and resort to broad name calling is something he speaks to a lot when criticizing the radical left types and it protects him from He's characterizing radical ideologues, which he's not at all. And his critics as angry because it means he can dismiss any and all actual criticism. But also the truth is what I've already expressed, that debunking Peterson often takes a lot of patience and words. And so ultimately it's kind of just easier to call him a dip (beep) and move on because it's not like he's going to actually change his even in the face of - And another thing you've done you have a more sort of You've talked a lot in defense both of gender, of class, so on, though emphatically not race. And so it seems that- - I haven't talked about in terms of gender and - Well you've talked about you've talked about the- - Yeah, that's true I have done that. - [Man Speaking] Well will - But I haven't justified them on the basis of gender and class or whatever category. - [Man Speaking] Well you, well okay. - Not okay, that's an - [Man Speaking] But in society in a way that, if everything is random. He seems to not grasp that you talk a lot about the - That doesn't mean I defend it. - [Man Speaking] Well okay, you- - No, not well okay. (audience laughing) - [Man Speaking] Well I - Observing that something exists is not the same as defending it, how in the world? - [Man Speaking] Well - What's that? - [Man Speaking] And you don't. People attack it, as inherently- - Attack what? - [Man Speaking] Attack as inherently unjust, right? - Well they are they're unjust, but they're also useful. - [Man Speaking] Okay so some people would disagree - Okay look at it this way. You obviously think that it's worthwhile to stand up and ask a question. - [Man Speaking] Yes. - So you think that standing up and asking a question is better than not standing up and asking a question? - [Man Speaking] Yes. - Okay that's a hierarchy. - [Man Speaking] Yes. - Of values. - [Man Speaking] Yes. - Okay without the hierarchy - [Man Speaking] Of course. - No, not of course, it's partly why I'm without a hierarchy you could just ask. - I'm sorry you had to see all of that. I'm sorry you had to see He sounds like Kermit and but you see how incredibly for a student to actually that that student is correct about. It's mad Hatter shit. This kid points out that Peterson often defends concepts like hierarchies, as it pertains to gender and class, as well as the Pareto principle. Peterson constantly interrupts him, needling his superficial uses of language and saying &quot;Well I haven't talked in terms of gender and class,&quot; which is just wrong. We've shown you clips of - Whatever pitfalls you cannot lay them at the feet of the west, patriarchy, or capitalism. - In a single breath. We'll probably show but here he is denying it. And in a debate setting, it's really hard to pull out your phone and find this clip or Jordan goes on to say that is not the same as defending it in terms of this hierarchy, he claims is a natural thing that we need to preserve and maybe let the left criticize But again, as we covered, The Pareto distribution/ Matthew effect / Pareto principle / Price's law isn't a hard fact for everything. It seems like he's trying to say that all his lobster pointing out that hierarchies exist. And like, no shit. But the existence and usefulness don't mean that all of or just, or perfectly organized. The fact that the hierarchy doesn't address what the Interesting, this is the I wonder what that's about. Also to top it all off that's partly why I'm Literally moments after claiming that he's not defending the hierarchy. In other words, he's a right wing dip shit who can't contend with the things he says. And it's just easier to say that than trying to meet him on his own incredibly bad faith terms. He is not worth debating because the words coming out performatively indignant, and often questionably descriptive claims said in a normative way so that he can act pedantically affronted if you accuse him of that extend from his naturalist viewpoint. What it comes down to, is that Peterson just doesn't like that trans people exist. He doesn't like having to change for the sake of inclusion or like anything that changes. He has specific biases but really wants to justify them by pretending like his biases and beliefs are rooted in some kind of grand design that we can't and shouldn't try to change. And it just so happens that his beliefs are largely right-wing or and boy this is concerning really close to some Nazi shit. Dude loves the free market And so when faced with like our effect on and the he's going to frame it as something we simply can't do anything about. - First of all, it's very difficult to separate the science from the politics. And second, even if the claims, the more radical claims are true, we have no idea what to - Except when he says, we don't know what to do about it, that we is doing a lot of Because people do know what We know that the cause of climate change is greenhouse gases. We've spent hundreds of years doing experiments to discover this. We can measure it using satellites and special equipment and know from those measurements, that carbon dioxide is and causing the planet to trap more heat. This is elementary school shit. So even if we don't perfectly nail down the studies tracking it, it's extremely silly to act like there's But of course those solutions just aren't solutions he likes. Again, it's the Peterson Pattern at work. He ignores science, and semantics and concludes a series of gibberish that sound intelligent followed - There's no fixing climate change, or just, or perfectly organized. that conceptually that's just, it's just an indication of, doesn't address what the unsophisticated thinking that's all it is. And then there's an insistence well climate change is real. Well what do you mean by real? What do you mean by change? What do you mean by climate? How much do you know about climate? And I'm just picking on that because it's a real overgeneralization. It's not helpful. - Hey Jorpson. Remember when we fixed the ozone layer? Also very funny that that's &quot;1MinuteFixThought&quot;. But sure, so off on how people aren't clear about what you very silly, man. Hey Jordan, I bet when they say things like and you know what they mean by it. so that he can act pedantically affronted if you accuse him of Even when he does claim he manages to make that because I lied you see, Jordan Peterson did offer done to help the environment. - Mostly what I learned, and this was really cool was that, this was so cool and I He has specific biases but really wants to justify them The fastest way to make the and ecologically viable is to make poor people as fast as we possibly can. Because the thing about well first of all they live in, they're not resource efficient. They use a lot of very little outcome. If you can get resources of the population, as soon as they get to some hope of a genuine future, especially for their children, they immediately become concerned about broader environmental And then the attempt to make the environment habitable and sustainable, that comes up of its own accord at a grassroots level - Okay I mean yeah, let's He's also not wrong here in the sense that there are studies showing that a person's socioeconomic status affects their concern for the environment in that wealthier people in countries tend to have the time and energy to care about such things. What's not entirely clear is why? It could be better access to education or simply having the money There are also studies saying that people in poorer countries actually have more concern than wealthier countries. But to say the solution is to simply give a lot of people money, is not only an idea he but it's also a little simplistic in that there are obviously other, better solutions to helping because obviously getting people concerned about climate change is just a first step. You still have to do something about it, but again, sure Jordan obviously let's make the poor, not poor, even if that doesn't and there's other stuff we can do about climate change right now, I am all for no more poverty. Although you have said. - It's not that easy to move - I mean, what are you gonna do? Tax their grotesquely wealthy and transfer it to people in some form. So okay, hard to move money. How do you suggest we do this then? - If the politicians who are discussing environmental sustainability were serious, especially the left wing ones. And I say especially, because the left wing ones always say, well, we care about the It's like, do you really? If you are serious about the environment and even vaguely concerned all of your policies would be donate, devoted to making the poor but that would violate the anti-capitalist presumption let's say, that the reason for in the first place is say entrepreneurial and free market development, which it most certainly isn't, that's actually completely backwards, make poor people rich. So what should have COP26 been about? That's fairly straight forward. It should have been as much energy as we possibly can to be distributed as widely as possible in the cheapest possible manner. - So your solution to poverty and by extension climate change, is the free market of capitalism. You know that thing consistently reduce poverty in America. You've singled out the and are claiming that in order to make poor people not poor anymore, we should continue the we already have and just wait, not universal basic income, free healthcare, not limit the carbon we're pumping into the atmosphere, just keep on doing what we're doing to the point that you're like scoffing and anti-capitalist as the people who want people to stay poor. And so we should increase production, which will magically because of the free market while increasing production for decades, which will magically solve climate change. Why do I feel like he this is a serious solution? And of course it just so happens that his answer requires no drastic change and ultimately is just him He also seems to ignore the fact that whether or not he thinks poor people care about climate change around the world, it still affects them. And it's going to affect them the worst, even if they don't care. That should be obvious to but we can't do anything about it. Let me offer a possible or rather, let me restate Jordan Peterson is a for whatever reason he believes which doesn't always But ultimately he believes in maintaining the And so conveniently, all of his solutions to things like inequality conclude that right-wing no matter how much mental he has to perform to In the end, he's just and this is all reflected the masculine's feminine, the extension of Jordan Peterson's shadow to use his Jungian technique the anima and animus. (mysterious music) He might make it seem but ultimately all of Jordan J. Jorpson P. Peterson's conclusions on society are no different than some conservative the good old days when minorities and women had the same rights as children and everything fit his And I really think it's part of why he had to stop being a professor. I have no way of knowing for sure, but I'm guessing, he's not a great person Well with all the magic The only real unique difference is that he often likes to pose his bigotry as open questions like he's exploring a topic as an educator. Here he is pondering, if the reason women are so outraged is because they long for You know how infants are Here he is just asking the question, if feminists secretly like he's (beep) Aristotle orating from a mound of enlightenment, how dare you. If you find these humble for you must clearly be based on the fact that unfair based on puffy lobster fights and therefore, feminist secretly want to be dominated and impregnated. Here he is reflecting on the &quot;I'm not saying Harvey Weinstein's victims invited their own victimization, but I'm not impressed by the fact that this went on forever And again, what? What is your point, Jordan are you blaming the victims or not? Jordan loves to do this. He loves to claim he's not making any specific conclusion while pondering absolutely wild questions, seemingly designed to as some kind of unsolvable enigma. Here is an absolute gem you may have seen where he's pondering the question of women in the workplace. - Here's a question. Can men and women work - Yes, I do it. - How do you know? - Cause I work with a lot of women. - Right well, it's been And things are deteriorating in terms of the relationships - You see- - Is there sexual Yes. Should it stop? That'd be good. Will it? Well, not at the moment it won't because we don't know what the rules are. - Do you think men and women can work in the workplace together? - I don't know. - Can men and women work together? Who can say, who knows? It's a mystery where even am I? It's never been done before. What are the rules? Why aren't there any rules? Why isn't there like a book of policies or a code of conduct that a job gives you about their rules? It's an unsolvable contraption. Speaking of rules. - In fact I've been told Never have a meeting with a just like I ignore that because there's no way I'm doing that, but that's common practice. - So we don't know the rules, but also the rules I do know about, I hate and will not follow. It's this moment from his 15 minute video about getting banned from Twitter. - What rules use sons of bitches. - The rules you can read Jordan, the ones you know about Sorry to get distracted the point is, we clearly can't have because of course it's the women and the color red. - Here's a rule, how about no makeup in the workplace? - Why would that be a rule? - Why should you wear Isn't that sexually provocative? - No. - It's not? - No. - What is it then? What's the purpose of makeup? - Some people would like - Why? - To... I don't know why people put on- - Why do you make lips red? Because they turn red during - Interesting how he doesn't identify any sexually provocative displays a man might do in the Should all men have to shave? Are shoulder pads banned? Is the shaft okay to show Almost like he's actually trying to justify his behavior through a half assed But yeah, I guess we should like, ban the color red from the office because it makes us horny. Or get rid of makeup you know, like the Nazis did, great solution. But of course he's not saying that he's just asking some really weird and specific questions framed in a way to force And if you noticed he's once where he takes something or evolution in this case, the idea that makeup which has been one use at certain points and applying it to modern times as if we haven't evolved he's saying we just don't know if men can keep their dicks to themselves if women have red lips. It's something you see with a lot of these pick-up artists when they talk about And so again, if you're making decisions based on thousands or millions of years ago, you might want to rethink your approach. I mean, except for my dilophosaurus diet, 'Diet-Ophosaurus', find the cookbook series, Use promo code spit on your food for 20% off the first book, 'Diet-Ophosaurus' eat like you got dangly little flap It's sweeping the nation. And like, let's say we even take Peterson as a reasonable person. Ban makeup because red lips and cheeks can simulate sexual arousal. Do you want to ban only red makeup? What about blue lipstick, Eyeliner was used by Egyptians to protect from evil spiritual dangers. Is eyeliner okay if the reason Oh no what if it's both? Do you see how silly this is yet? And yeah, if for some reason what Peterson's views are - No. - What is it then? What's the purpose of makeup? - Some people would like It's not great. In fact, Jorpson absolutely loves to claim that the patriarchy doesn't exist, but also that there are that are good, but also - There's an asymmetry but that doesn't mean that Western culture is a male dominated patriarchy. The fact that there are asymmetries has nothing to do with Western society is a male It's like, no it's not that's not true. And even if it, even if it has a patriarchal and that is what they're doing. - Interesting how he doesn't identify the fundamental basis of that structure is not power, it's competence. The doctrine, the doctrines are predicated on. Well, one assumption they're predicated on it's probably the primary the best way to view history is as the domination of a - Well here's some clear ones. - That's the answers. - Here's some clear ones, right like, major corporations the vast - [Jordan] Yeah. - We think of that as - [Jordan] Yeah. - Government never been a male, never been a female president. A vast majority of senators, congressmen, et cetera, male. - Yeah so I guess we could say, well the patriarchy is all those elements of hierarchical structure that are still dominated by men. - Law enforcement, - Right well, what's the hierarchy? It's a tyrannical patriarchy. It's like, no it's not. You're grateful for the productions of a tyrannical patriarchy how does that make sense? Tyranny isn't good is it? I mean, that's the definition of tyranny. Something that isn't good and yet it's produced all these things that you're grateful for. - Side note, interesting point that the definition of tyranny is something that isn't good, good definition or as Jordan might say. Anyway, here is an he believes that women were never discriminated against, ever. His argument being that since men worked under bad conditions, discrimination against It's an extremely flawed argument that devolves into him talking about how his grandmother was a and how much would she chopped. And then how in the '50s, Betty Friedan started to &quot;whine even though men fought in wars&quot;. And like, I don't know, did the women want those wars? Were they in charge of Did they vote for the people who were in charge of starting those wars? Well eventually, once this is the guy who talks about how it's unfair and inappropriate to talk about the 1% or the smallest percentage of men who own most of the things and are in positions of power, et cetera. While also saying how aggressiveness on the extremes is a male trait. And also there's no patriarchy and men fighting in war It's so fucking weird the nuance of like all of history. The kind of thing a 15 year And this guy is supposed to reasonable thought leader, not to mention that by claiming there's no discrimination against women, isn't he ignoring the natural - Whatever pitfalls you cannot lay them at the or capitalism. It's like, that's a, - So, which is it Jordan? Is the patriarchy a symptom that we can't do anything about or does it not exist at all? If women aren't discriminated against, then why do you also recognize that the pay gap for women is at least in part due to gender? - It does seem that way, but multi-variate analysis of the pay gap indicate that it doesn't exist. - But that's just not true is it? I mean that 9% pay gap that's a gap between between men and women, that exists. - Yeah but there's One of them is gender, but it's not the only reason. - The pay gap doesn't exist. Actually it does and one but not the only reason. It sure seems like two completely contradictory things that both conveniently - There's plenty of women and coming to my talks and buy my books, it's just that the majority You're grateful for the productions - Such a mystery. One of the reasons might &quot;12 Rules For Life&quot;, he describes men as representing order and women as representing chaos. See, I won't get too much into it, but Peterson's also seemingly fixated on the concepts of order and chaos. It is heavily featured Here are some silly He talks about it all the time. I'm actually impressed I haven't mentioned it until now. But he's all deep into how a balance between order and chaos can be beneficial to life and like the universe and stuff, big order and chaos guy. It's also discussed in &quot;12 Rules For Life&quot; in which he describes, men as order and women as chaos. So men are order, but also there's no patriarchy When asked about literally this, funnily enough by Barry Jordan explains. - I think that it's nihilism constitute the major existential threat, especially to young people at the moment. Then I was concentrating on and order. So and the issue with regards to the metaphysical or symbolic representation of chaos as feminine, well that's a very complex problem. And the first thing you there's no a priority supposition. That order is preferable to chaos in any fundamental sense. They're both constituent You can't say one's bad You can say that they and that's definitely not good. Too much chaos is not good obviously. Too much order is not good, equally obviously. Those are the two extremes that you have to negotiate between. - Too much women and too much men are bad you have to negotiate. Like this is such a funny why did you think men are order and women are chaos? And first of all, you know what's orderly? Having two X chromosomes and a regular monthly menstrual cycle. You know what's chaotic, tossing in a Y chromosome and just your little But more importantly, male and female order and chaos, neither has to be either. He's so obsessed with being about the balance that whenever he sees two things, he can't help, but think, well surely one must be order and the other chaos. No man, that's not how it works. Well plants are order See dogs, dogs are chaos whereas cats are order, I bet. It's absurd, he's absurd. Anyway, back to how Dr. doesn't think that patriarchy exists and also orderly men dominating You see, even when people but sometimes Joe Rogan curious, point out inequalities relating to women like their lack of the vote or he changes the point to be about, well not that. - Well maybe you just think that representative democracy Maybe you just think that women should be equally represented in the decision making fora of our nation. - I don't understand - Well I guess you don't, that's particularly as unfortunate. - Well how about if you instead of just insulting me. (audience laughing) Let's talk about quotas for a minute. So there's a very wide array of jobs that are fundamentally done by men. 99.9% of brick layers are men, should we have quotas for women? - Is brick laying - That has nothing to If there's evidence of structural because women aren't precisely represented at 50% in all metaphysical or symbolic representation about having women represented in all professions at all levels? - So there is no patriarchy and the fact that for a while women couldn't even own a credit card and positions of power are and specifically about His response is, well, if we're talking about representation in all possible domains, you are now. Also Peterson frequently talks about career choice and how boys from a young whereas girls are interested in people. So shouldn't women be more It's just this constant dance where he needs patriarchy to not exist, but has to admit when it does and claim that those are the good parts or just change the subject to be about something he's pretending some blue haired college He's like, it's important for the left to point out inequalities and injustices, but I get to be mad about it and dismiss them every time. You might also start to which is that when it comes or the Pareto distribution, Jordan Peterson will address those ideas with total confidence, no gray area, as opposed to when he climate change, or or really anything that and data to back it up. But it just so happens that science goes against what he wants to be true. And this is where I talked about his extremely convoluted - So we wanted to start off with a kind of a Are you in favor of gay marriage - Well I'm in favor of marriage and I'm in favor of the And I think it's a to extend that the way So I mean, homosexuality It looks like particularly on the male end of the distribution, that has a fairly powerful It seems like a reasonable experiment. I mean it leaves open questions because we have no idea of such relationships might be compared to heterosexual relationships. That's a completely open question. - Thanks for answering that Hey, if you're wondering, we actually have data on of same sex marriages. And according to this study from America, this study out of Denmark and this study out of the UK, or just go to the Wikipedia page about divorce rates for same sex couples. And you'll see that they're equal to that of heterosexual marriage. So there you go hope that helps anyway, go on lurch. - Now I think the the legalization of gay because they believe that had been under sustained assault for a substantial amount of time, which is something I And so they had the reasons but I think you can make a for the utility of gay marriage as well as a libertarian so we'll see. - Wait, what? So you think conservatives gay marriage is an assault and you agree with them so is that a no? Why can't you just say yes or no? What is happening here? - We actually have a quote of you, about your opinion on gay marriage and regarding gay marriage in Australia. And you've said, &quot;I would be against it if it was backed by cultural Marxist, because it isn't clear to me whether it will satisfy for an assault on But don't you think that just because it was also, as you say of cultural Marxists is problematic and it's kind as a principally liberal person. - Ah, so apparently he would be against gay marriage if it was backed by cultural Marxists. Cultural Marxism is something and Peterson doesn't use the term often because it's too associated He'll often instead use the term postmodern neo-Marxist. Peterson's theory is that didn't work out and got a bad reputation. So the Marxists changed but about race and other identities in order to insidiously, So if you care about, the racist history and effects of the United you're a secret communist hell bent on destroying the west, I guess. Anyway, I don't wanna or let those nicely dressed gentlemen put words in his mouth. So here he is saying it - Well, I would be against it too if it was backed by cultural Marxists, because it isn't clear to me that because we have no idea of such relationships might be it will satisfy the ever increasing, what would you call demand for an assault on - So that's what he said which as pointed out doesn't seem like a centrist or even Seems like Peterson is saying aren't based on data or morality, but rather if it's supported But I'm sure he can - I said if, right so if that's what it started with. I mean, it's complicated when, when you're trying to determine what stance to take on a particular issue, because it's very complicated to determine just exactly - Right, yes you did say if which, okay. It seems like you're And it doesn't change the question or point in any way. It's actually extremely weird and ideologically poisoned of you to disagree with something if the vague idea of cultural Also, I bet cultural Marxists do support gay marriage because lots of people do. Also, if you're confused it's gay marriage. And if you're for or against it, it's weird how you can't but alright, let's try this again. But with a different question. - Being gay and in a we are considering kids. What are your thoughts about just because it was also, as you say of cultural Marxists I think the devil is in the details to tell you the truth. When, if I was ever talking that's the question is, well, I mean you have problems, right? If you're both of the same sex, then you're going to have the problem of how to provide the proper model for, let's say you have a boy and a girl. and Peterson doesn't use the term often because it's too associated We know this is indisputable and this is something I've Kids in intact heterosexual families, where the father is present, do way better on multiple indices than kids who are part of Now that doesn't mean that who do a good job, right? That's not the same bloody claim. Those are different claims. But on average kid, not only do kids where but societies or even local societies where there are more not only for the kids but the kids in the neighborhood where there are lots of intact families with fathers do better. And so I believe quite firmly that the nuclear family is the father, mother, child, - Okay wow. It's weird how he seems to rock it past, actually answering the question. Instead, he talks about data around kids raised by a single parent versus kids raised by data shows it's better to or rather that kids missing their mother or their father have a harder time. Maybe it's because of divorce or abandonment or death or because the father was from the future and actually sent back by perhaps it's easier to raise kids when there's more people to help out. Either an income and someone at home, or two incomes and someone else at home, a robot assassin that seems logical. But you might notice that this two parent question literally has nothing to Jordan doesn't answer that and instead seemingly compares studies on single parent households And maybe that's because on the effects of same Cornell looked at 79 and found that only four Here's another study that raised by same sex couples and found that they actually but it would be unfair to say that Jordan Peterson or gay adoption. I think the more accurate summary comes from how he finally gets back around to the question at hand. - If you, if you're gay, let's say there's two men or two women, then you have the problem for the contra sexual target. And you can say, well, it doesn't matter because there's no differences between men and women and you can gerrymander and avoid your moral responsibility, or you can face it squarely and say, look, you've decided to step and to organize a which puts a tremendous And then you have to figure out how you can provide for your children, what it is that they would get in the classic minimal human unit. So, and more power to you I hope you can do a good job of it. I think there's a room in the world for, for a diverse range of approaches to complex life problems like having kids and finding a partner. But that doesn't mean you get about the absolute realities of life and the fact that there between men and women, to deny that is reprehensible - So I think what he's ultimately saying is that if you're a same you need to be aware of the challenges of not having a specific And I don't know, I'm not sure, but okay. You can just say that, like you just said, you're if cultural Marxist are for it. Peterson's position as is that there are benefits to having a mother and a father because you need, for example, the father to instigate and set the parameters What Peterson's struggling is that he's ultimately not saying a child needs two distinct but that he wants certain represented in at least one parent. So like maybe you should and adopt kids if you your ability to perform both sides of a like a feminine man and A masculine woman and feminine If you're worried about gender roles, would you be okay with a masculine woman and a feminine woman? You see how silly this approach is. Like, okay interesting bit of advice about introducing play but unless you have a specific plan for what specific combination of stereotypically gendered behavior, two people should have to demonstrate for this hierarchical structure, you feel compelled to push, the government gives rough and nurture courses to mother bot. The answer to should gay couples be able to get married and raise And the reason Peterson, I think goes back to his obsession with hierarchy and natural order and the sheer terror and anger, he seems to feel for the validity of that. He's smart enough to know that gay people have And there's no evidence or parents do harm to children. But that knowledge also contradicts his belief that there's in society that we can't do anything about because obviously the is proof that we can change things and that not everything has The hierarchy that is a mommy and a daddy is it seems not the only path. And you can see all of in this next clip, which is the closest to a direct answer we get from Peterson on the issue. and finding a partner. But that doesn't mean you get - If the marital vows are taken seriously, then it seems to me that it's a means whereby gay people could be integrated more And that's probably a good thing. And maybe that would decrease promiscuity, which is a public health problem. Although obviously that's Although gay men tend to be probably because there's no women to bind them with regards Peterson's position as is that there are benefits to having a mother and a father The problem is that it does seem to me to be part of a wedge and it isn't obvious to me that has done anything to decrease the demands that the radical left Neo Marxist types are placing on traditional society. So, but that he wants certain represented in at least one parent. those are my views. I know they're confused, because I'm in favor of traditional relationships to people who wouldn't be involved in a traditional long term relationship. But I'm concerned about the undermining of traditional modes of which has technically, and historically been a union fundamentally for the in a stable and, about introducing play but unless you have a specific plan an optimal and stable environment. - By his own admission, And that's probably because he's trying so hard to rectify the contradictions of his viewpoint. In the end, he thinks gay marriage is good because it potentially into this traditional mode except the truth that he comes so close to is that there actually isn't a correct or traditional mode of being. In the end he has it completely backward, the acceptance of LGBTQ people, isn't about the nuclear family or some natural hierarchy, assimilating people who didn't fit into it because the existence of those people clearly show that there or traditional hierarchy to begin with. And that's actually what the same way civil rights and women's rights change That's not the norm absorbing people, but the norm never existing The norm is what we make of it. Like fate or our gruff Bostonian charm. There is no single natural Everything can evolve and change that pyramid is a lie. Everything is on a spectrum, there is no spoon, I know Kung Fu, but that idea is just something Jordan Peterson can't accept. He loves the idea that everything can fit into a specific because in terms of self-help, that proves useful to people. This is probably why there's a noticeable contradiction between what Peterson says a person needs and should do in their life and his complete lack of solutions for large societal problems. If you ask him what you to improve your situation, he will offer so many solutions or stress the importance - The one thing I always who are excessively anxious is on this first thing I'd ask you is to bind them with regards what do you eat for breakfast? If you want to have a great career, it's hard to do that if you're alone and without a family. You need to learn to think The problem is that it does seem to me to be part of a wedge because thinking makes you thinking makes you win And those could be - He talks constantly about the need for a family structure or and how specific things create better outcomes for children. As we've shown he seems to know that poverty is a huge obstacle And yet he never advocates for any specific action that we can take. He never actually says, &quot;Hey, I think we should work &quot;we need to make sure every kid&quot; &quot;has access to food and education.&quot; And so I guess I think he Like on the off chance Dr. Jordan B. Peterson. You're a silly man, but a lot of people listen to you. So you could at least actually advocate for eradicating poverty and feeding people and making sure they have at least the bottom of in order to achieve their individual and our collective potential. The perfect balance you weird dope. Like hey you're not scared that by seeking specific you will accidentally agree with the cultural Marxist left, are you? Surely you and all your buddies on the intellectual right, can solve these problems identifying as a problem. Can't you talk to Elon about this? - You see someone like Elon Musk I mean, what the hell do you make I mean, what did he do? He made an electric car, which is basically impossible and it works, which is And then he built an infrastructure so that you could charge and that was basically impossible. And then he made it cheap because if you buy an electric car and you factor in the price of gas, the electric car is actually about as expensive as the gasoline car and so that was unbelievable. And then he built a bloody rocket, which was one 10th the price or less that of a NASA rocket which was impossible. And then he put one of his and he shot it up into space. And then this happened, right? This all happened and he's still alive. - Yeah see, ask Elon, he's an alien who single and everything at SpaceX. He sent a car to space, 60 years after we put a and onto the moon wowza. Also no need to fact check that or even looked to see if Elon actually has his name or just opened his Wikipedia page. The guy who Jordan Peterson even he can't solve By your metric, he should Because he has all the money. Anyway, Jordan, glad you're watching this, but it just seems weird that you or your buddies haven't solved poverty or even advocated for solving I thought you were supposed to be smart. Maybe you should ask yourself why your specific and rigid belief system while good for self-help, doesn't actually offer solutions for large societal problems. But again that's just not something he will allow himself to accept. It's probably why he loves those because they sort people define people, project But even when going I had to sort of fudge a mold them into something else because like all self help tools, they are meant to be Much like hierarchies are meant They're a diagnostic not a rule of life, but Jordan Peterson has a lot of trouble wrapping his head around that probably because he is, in some cases, Nazi adjacent. And on top of that kind of not Christianity specifically always, even though he loves biblical imagery, but Peterson has sort of spiraled in his mish mash of random beliefs to the point that he treats them more like a dogma than a flexible concept. And so on that subject here's where we get into the self. (mysterious music) This is the persona all wrapped up in one place like a fruit roll up, We step back and look at and who he really is by looking at who he thinks he is. - Just going back onto this issue of you sort of almost Do you view yourself as that? I mean, as religion declines, you go on this world tour, millions of people read your books. Billions of people probably Do you see yourself as sort of new religious phenomenon for people? And then he put one of his and he shot it up into space. - Not new. And then this happened, right? This all happened and he's still alive. Not new. And, - Yeah see, ask Elon, he's an alien who single I see myself as fortunate. and everything at SpaceX. That's how I see myself that I have the opportunity to do this. - But are you a prophet? and onto the moon wowza. Also no need to fact check that or even looked to see if Elon actually has his name or just opened his Wikipedia page. I have to think about how even he can't solve how what I'm doing No I think I see myself as a psychologist and fundamentally I am a psychologist I'm a behavioral psychologist. - Oh thank God he figured it out. When asked if he's a religious prophet, Jordan Peterson stares off for the better part of 15 fucking seconds before finally concluding And you really have to wonder what the fuck was going for all of that time. And to do that first we need to go all the way back to that Bernard Schiff op-ed. Saying that Peterson, was more like a preacher than a teacher and point out that this with Schiff claiming that he's interested in buying a church to deliver sermons every Sunday, because that's why Peterson and self-help guru loves he absolutely has no He has a passionate belief that based on bad lobster science, there is an indisputable and that it runs through everything and is part of a natural order that cannot and should not be changed. And it just so happens proves that capitalism and That patriarchy is fake and the traditional He believes it no differently than a person might believe in God. And hopefully he's moved on from when he was a teenager and lost a school election and said, &quot;I won't be happy until but boy, it sure seems like he's very, very close to graduating from a self-help teacher to otherwise known as a cult leader. - I'm the embodiment of a set We step back and look at We're all embodiments of sets of ideas and those ideas aren't mine. They're the collective in some sense, and to the degree that I for this time and place I mean, as religion declines, you go on this world tour, to the degree that I can a biblical phrase, a very then I can transmit, I can communicate those ideas to myself and to other people, but I don't want to be I'm not their source and I'm very aware of that. And I do what I can to And my family helps me They understand the danger as well. - Ah yes, you see, he is a mere vessel for and needs to be reminded nothing fucked up there. There's probably no question why his first book &quot;Maps of Meaning&quot; his opus that explains everything &quot;I will utter things which from the foundation of That book also includes this letter to his father while writing the book. &quot;I don't know dad, but I think I have discovered something that no one else has any idea about and I'm not sure I can do it justice. Its scope is so broad that I can only see parts of it clearly at one time. And it is exceedingly difficult to set down comprehensively in writing.&quot; On the subject of his family in that aforementioned op-ed probably one of the more concerning bits was that Peterson also told Bernard Schiff that his wife, &quot;Had a dream and sometimes She dreamed that it was and that's unsettling in like five different and Jordan has a big relationship with dreams. If you recall, this all started with him having apocalyptic nightmares and he still heavily seemingly with zero patience for any scientific explanation of them. - And so Jung was got and started to understand the relationship between dreams and myths, because he would see echoes of stories that he knew because he was deeply read in mythology. And then he started to was the birthplace of the myth and that there was a continual interaction between the two processes, the dream and the story and storytelling and well you know, you tend to tell your dreams as stories when you remember them and some people remember Like two or three a night And they often have archetypal dreams that have very clear I think that's more the case with people who are creative by the way, especially if they're a bit unstable. There's something going on inside you that you don't control, right? The dream happens to you just I mean, there is the odd and to the degree that I for this time and place apply a certain amount But most of the time it's, you're laying there asleep and this crazy complicated world manifests itself inside you. And you don't know how, you could, you can't do it when you're awake and you don't know what it means, it's like what the hell's going on. And that's one of the things that's so frightening because you get this you really start to understand that there are things inside you that are happening that control you instead of the other way around. There's a bit of reciprocal control, but, there's manifestations of that determine the manner in and you don't control it. And what does, is it random? There are people who have claimed that dreams are mere, merely the consequence of which is a theory, I think is absolutely absurd because there's nothing - The theory Peterson is is that we largely give order After we wake up and the dreams themselves of random ideas and images Again, just a theory. I personally believe dreams are the farts we smelled during the day, but Jordan is far more as some kind of higher power. And he links this with the idea of the collective unconsciousness by giving probably the worst - Or maybe you dream up a nightmare and try to make that into a reality because people do that too if they're hell bent on and full of hatred and resentment, I mean that manifests itself Those are dreams then These things are powerful, and whole nations can get That's what happened to the Nazis that's what happened to And it was absolutely remarkable, amazing horrific destructive spectacle. - So the amazing spectacle that is the Holocaust is the And it's hard to figure out if Jordan is being abstract here or really what the fuck he's trying to say about dreams in general, but I bring all of this up because he clearly believes that there is an unseen which is certainly not a unique belief. And it really seems like he also believes that our dreams give us - [Jordan] I had a dream once I was in this cemetery of an old church, an old cathedral, with people who are creative by the way, where all the graves were and all of a sudden they, the graves started to open The dream happens to you just and it was a graveyard where great people, great men of the past had been buried. And so, grave opened and an armed king stood up and then another grave opened and another armed king stood up. And this happened all around me. And these were very They were the great heroes of the past. And after a number of them because you get this they looked around and saw each other and being warrior types they immediately started to fight. instead of the other way around. And the question is what stops the great kings there's manifestations of And I had a revelation after the dream. I can't remember if it was part of it, but in, as it was part of the dream, they all bowed down to - Notice how he says he doesn't know if the Christ figure was something he made up after the dream and then decides that it was in the dream. It seems like that thing and structure to our but I'm not here to talk about dreams and what they mean and how other people's farts I think it's okay to have and how we are all and if there's a larger force out there, like if God was actually farts, except in Jordan's case, when you combine that he believes to be rooted in our lobster nature unfair hierarchies. The weird idea that a percentage this business with Nazi Germany, being a collective dream And finally that he's for these truths. Well you really start to see a man who truly believes that he most likely because he He has a lot of emotions and pretty messed up thoughts that I don't think he understands and attributes them to some kind of outside cosmic influence seeping in, but I'm trying to be gentle here. Perhaps the answer is that Like I'm not gonna sit here and try to diagnose Jordan Peterson. But one of the other pretty is his ability to say which is certainly not a unique belief. and or break into tears at what sure seem to be - A close reading of 20th as nothing else can, the horrors that accompany an old cathedral, loss of faith in the where all the graves were and - No they're worse than animals. and it was a graveyard where great people, They're worse than animals cause animals, they just kill to eat. Human beings they have a twist in them that makes them far worse than animals when they really get going. Well I think it's, I think, you really wanna know what I think? I think it's revenge against And this happened all around me. And these were very That's really what I think. They were the great heroes of the past. And after a number of them It's Cain and Cain and Abel. It's like, oh Abel's your, Abel's your guy God. How about if I take him out in the field and beat him to death, how All my sacrifices went unrewarded. And the question is Yeah it's like, yeah that's what it is at the bottom of the hell of things. And I had a revelation after the dream. Now this band was playing Kellys Heroes, a great guitarist, best And they were playing old country music with a heavy blues rock twist. So they do this great version of &quot;Ghost Writers In The Sky&quot; and it's 15 minutes long. And this brilliant guitarist and everybody in the crowd it's so was so fun to be there. They're just thrilled to death because they're watching this man doing the same thing that surfers do. He's like dancing on the in this virtuosic manner. And everyone is so taken by that, that it just lifts them of their existence. Then you see this joy, - And again, I don't know, man. It's okay to cry, it's good to cry just like it's okay to or farts, or religion or religious farts. And most of all, I don't really want to attack someone for having mental health but we're talking about a guy who after opting for an all meat diet and lying about not sleeping for 25 days after having a sip of cider, fell into depression and After having himself put in in order to rehabilitate. He just doesn't seem like a and should probably seek serious help instead of trying to anti trans, self-help schtick. He seems quite frankly - I've been very ill And I, it's not obvious why, but I think one of the sources was that I've I just was overwhelmed by insight into misery. So many, I saw so many people that were so well grateful is part of it, to me. And I had somebody called me this week and he just got my number randomly. And he said, &quot;Who is this?&quot; I answered the one he said, &quot;Who is this?&quot; I said, &quot;No, no, who is this?&quot; Since he was calling me and he said, they just kill to eat. he told me his name he said, Human beings they have a twist in them &quot;Are you Dr. Peterson?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes&quot;. He said &quot;Really?&quot; And I said, &quot;Yeah, it's yes, really&quot;. And he just burst into tears and he just sobbed like uncontrollably apologizing. And then he said his grandmother had died and his mother and. It's Cain and Cain and Abel. It's like, oh Abel's your, Abel's your guy God. How about if I take him out in the field and beat him to death, how All my sacrifices went unrewarded. I think he had become suicidal. Yeah it's like, yeah that's what it is And that his, my lectures And that had helped him, Now this band was playing Kellys Heroes, a great guitarist, best And well, I've seen a lot of that and that's dangerous, it's dangerous. I'm not unhappy about it. I'm not unhappy about it. It's an honor to be able to help people really it's a privilege And this brilliant guitarist and everybody in the crowd and I'm thrilled that but by the same token, it's a lot of, doing the same thing that surfers do. it's a lot to see. I have to be very careful to see all that and to - Again, nothing wrong with reaching out to you. And it's great that as he's able to actually But Jordan has very clearly extended the importance of his role as some kind of spiritual Christ-like figure, feeling the feelings of his followers so much that he sees literally becoming ill for you. When the reality is that in over his head. And I think it would be one thing if he was just a spiritual or self-help dude. But again, he's clearly not that. Since boldly standing up against pronouns, Jordan Peterson has slowly morphed into this weird right-wing And it's clear that he's found that he did when simply focused on self-help or as a teacher. I would argue that he for those professions, and then found that being paid to ramble about Twitter bands on the brand new Daily Wire plus to be way more lucrative. - Why did I decide to do this? And what does Daily I like working with Ben Second, I like the unabashedly And I had somebody called me this week of the Daily Wire crew. They made me a great deal financially. - He literally just says that they paid him a lot of money. Also yeah, totally not a right-winger on Ben Shapiro's the Daily Wire. Oh and that a lot of money originally came from a homophobic fracking billionaire. Side note there's a whole section we cut from this of Peterson on Rogan, talking about fracking and how solar power is because people fall off which is true. And then he is like. - And that's a good example because systems are complex and when you change them you think only good things will happen. It's like well you know. - What are you gonna do? Figure out how to get people to not fall off roofs. And then he talks about in terms of environmental progression and when Rogan points out that it poisons people's drinking water Peterson first denies - [Joe] Fracking. - Yeah fracking. - [Joe] Really? - This thing that environmentalists hate, it's like don't frack. - But it's a double edged sword, right? cause fracking has definitely - [Jordan] Not really. - No, it hasn't polluted - Look- - Did you ever see that- - Everything pollutes something. - Everything pollutes something and in this case, that Anyway, back to how Dr. Jordan B. Peterson abandoned academia and clinical psychology to find major success playing up homophobic fracking billionaires, the Daily Wire style culture war hog wash. You can see this when Peterson talks during - The God in the Old cruel and arbitrary and and which is one of the things that really gives the book life, because it wasn't edited by a committee, a committee that was concerned with not offending anyone (audience applauding) if he was just a spiritual or self-help dude. But again, he's clearly not that. Since boldly standing up against pronouns, - That's from his lecture about dreams and as you can see, the biggest reaction he PC culture or whatever. It's just like his whole deal now. He has been so consumed by his fear of communism and wokeness that he's just all in and blinded to many, many Peterson loves giving the postmodernist, the but he should maybe heed his own warning. But instead of taking a step back and examining his own problems and extremely confused beliefs about hierarchies and collective dreaming and all that Nazi shit, Jordan Peterson has been that will instead nurture the very real instability that he clearly struggles with. And I kind of feel bad which is why I wanted to don't check the time code. It's also why it's so in this brief video, because he seems to have especially on young men who are And boy, he really shouldn't be, dude is a fucking mess. And so even the slivers or the self help he gives should all be ultimately ignored. He's like three grains of wheat buried at the bottom because those things were because they happened to quasi-religious view of And that's, pretty much any cult leader. They draw you in with some very truthful or compassionate or and then introduce you that includes those ideas, but also a lot of let's call And to subscribe to him literally on Daily Wire plus I guess, will likely lead you far down a very long confusing that has increasingly become and simply morphed into not my words. - And help us continue and battling on the side of tradition in the raging culture war. - And one day you'll wonder why the world didn't work out the way he told you it would based on his lobster science. His weird and pretend and rigid structure to a world that is in A world that Peterson and has only become more and more angry at and detached from. I can't stress enough how few answers Jordan Peterson actually has. And in fact, he's a man because to make this as clear as I can, if somebody believes they or their family have prophetic dreams and seems to think that but a whole lot of what they what would you call that person? Is there a useful term for that? Besides everyone knows that the true path, the actual answers are, I don't know. (dramatic music) Something, you know, something, you know. Well we did it. So, thanks for watching, make sure to like and subscribe and do all the YouTube stuff to support the channel We also have a podcast that's shorter than this and this show as a podcast, And all our other episodes So thank you. Merch got Warmbo on it, He's right over there he's doing well, you all right, buddy? - [Warmbo] Yeah. - Yeah. So, here's the thing about Jordan Peterson.