- So I was struck when news of this whole typhoon story broke by my colleagues at the Journal, and their view that it was In a world in which there are many, many cyber attacks and cyber breaches, that's pretty extreme language. So what makes this particular - So I think there are a couple of things that have come out already and, you know, we should recognize and the both US government, other parts of the are just getting their arms But so far we know that China, a likely part of their compromised multiple And according to the Wall Street Journal, three of the biggest ones in the country, AT&amp;T, Verizon, and Lumen, were compromised for at a minimum months, So again, deep access to the most critical communications And in part, they had that controlled the way requested lawful access So again, if they have access they potentially have access to other critical and sensitive And so the idea of the the scale of the access, and their ability to remain to me is extremely And I think that we'll likely learn more about how - I hope we learn more. So it begs the question, - You know, again, we don't know yet. We don't know the way in which they've gotten in, in this case. But we can see that China to compromise our most in this country. Sometimes for intelligence gatherings, sometimes the preposition or disruptive attacks. Even just last year, a with the name Storm558, in such a way that they for basically all of the ability to read emails So they have demonstrated repeatedly an ability to get into from our most critical companies. - And what is the access route, and what does the edge - Yeah, so, you know, again, it's gonna be different in each context. In the case of the Storm558 we still today don't know into that attack. But in other cases, particularly on US critical infrastructure, think power companies, water companies, transportation, oil and gas, the vast majority of through vulnerable edge devices. - What do vulnerable edge devices include? - They could be routers, Often have very privileged They're notoriously bad and they are riddled, Repeatedly, you're seeing cases where- - Is it fair to say that in many cases, these are unmanaged devices, without a formal management structure? - I mean, they are managed, but the way in which they are structured tends to give them a lot of access. And unless you yourself are putting a lot of protections around them, it is proven difficult out of the box. For example, you can't do the on those devices that You have to send them to have them decrypted to give you better insight And so it puts a lot more burden on the enterprise IT management to, and the security apparatus- - [Steven] Burden on the - 100%. I mean, again, these devices, because of the nature and because of the way they're it puts a lot of burden on the users, in this case, the corporate IT departments and corporate CISO offices, to put in place security - So I think one of the of this story is this discussion of the extent to which may have been compromised. What are your thoughts - Yeah, I mean, according to when writing about this, the Chinese actors had to enable exfiltration of information from these wiretap systems. Which both their ability to do that in production environments, without detection for both a really significant that they were operating on, that they knew how to configure those. - [Steven] That's incredible. - And that they weren't able - Without going too deep what does it mean to be able to remotely and, you know, in a secret manner, reconfigure a Cisco router? - Yeah. - I mean, you know, it requires of how that network is operating, to be able to understand how to begin to change without affecting the visibility for the It requires their ability to operate in parts of that network so particularly out, in this And, you know, I think we're, again, we're still at the early stages of this, and I think particularly where they were able to use the operator's own equipment - So given what we know what you know, about the situation, what are the takeaways so - Yeah, and again, a go back to what the US government has been saying for a while because of the improved both that they're employing, particularly using native administrative against the networks itself. One, it requires operators to have much greater, deeper visibility into what's happening on their network so they can establish and when things are happening Second, I think as we protecting your edge. In an environment where network You've got hybrid cloud Your ability to understand what kind of devices are what kind of trust and into your network and your is critical. And third, and probably most important, given the Chinese ability to continue to compromise networks, is the ability to build into your systems. Can you operate in a And I think as was mentioned you know, the CrowdStrike of what China would like in the eve of conflict. And we need to be prepared for disruptions to critical IT systems across the country, and can we continue to operate? I think the CrowdStrike - We should talk a lot more But I just wanted to see if we for the enterprise are two, resilience, and then number one... - Was the improved visibility - Baseline operations. - Particularly for on your network. What role does AI play - So, you know, I think where AI can improve a I would argue that today, you know, a lot of companies are coming out with cyber-enabled AI systems, arguably faster than But the challenge is I don't you know, the best implementations of AI for real cybersecurity. I think that there are still a ways to go in terms of development You know, company I work has one I think is be able to improve their from a variety of different including ones outside of ours. But there is a lot more work to do on AI. It is not a panacea in this case. It's the types of solutions into networks are still to do some hard work to understand how they architect their networks how they build in protections how they give themselves the AI can certainly help with some of those, but it doesn't replace them. - It doesn't fix the problem. - Not yet. - Just one more question where the enterprise needs to drill down. Where do you think the If you look at companies where do they tend to to be - You know, I think you're kind of across all three of but I will continue to, you know, hit on the vulnerable edge, because we have seen that for both nation states and over the past several years. And I would say since the pandemic has moved the workforce more remote, since the edge has gotten fuzzier with the way networks we have seen almost every launched by an adversary, at some point is gonna exploit those vulnerable edge devices. And if there is one place it's there. - So how do you think companies more broadly, especially - Yeah, I mean, you in late 2021, early 2022, both before and after the And the one comment that particularly ones who or had some dependence on Russia, that they were scrambling how to get out of Russia. I would argue that companies today, if you're not already thinking about what you would do the day after you're probably late. Because our business relationships, our technology dependence with China dwarfs what it was for So thinking about your risk thinking about your dependence and your supply chain how do you secure your network that may have touchpoints there, particularly given the aggressive move by Chinese authorities to and source code on software for companies operating in China. You need to be thinking about - What else can the government It already has restrictions of hardware and software Do those policies go far enough? - I mean, those are delaying tactics. They're designed to slow, of more advanced computers, more advanced tools. They're working, but to counteract them. They've got aggressive efforts and US is gonna have if they hope to continue to contain China's technological for both civilian and I don't think that that stops China from getting where they want to be. It may just affect the - What do you think that about the potential for between China and China and any other country? - So you know, these, you know, this operation against is largely, we believe, from an intelligence-gathering operation. Something that they've they've just have scored you know, our biggest That being said, and US officials have you know, Xi has given to be prepared militarily Now, whether they get there, and whether he believes the generals when they tell him that they're But they're operating on a And that means on our end, we both inside the United States, but as well as with our that may be confronted So time is not on our side, and we need to be doing everything we can to be as ready as possible. And it's why when I talked about companies needing to be cited on the fact that they need to understand their risk posture when it comes to China, that - I wanna follow up on what exactly being more ready entails, if there are any questions If you do, yes, please, Tim. - [Tim] Hi, Tim, hello, okay. Tim Crawford with AVOA. So what is to prevent, oh. Okay, we'll switch to one that works. Tim Crawford with AVOA. So my question is, it's one thing when we start talking about activities that are coming from offshore to the US, but what's to prevent things within the borders of the US, even if it is funded by nation states? You know, we talk about, in other ways we talk about sleeper cells. But you could potentially have taking place within some of these high-performance computing environments that now have access to that you have that kind if they're coming from overseas. - So a couple of points. One, you know, most attacks against our critical infrastructure, including from the Chinese government, may originate overseas, but they're gonna be operating through our own infrastructure. So if we look at some of the operations that the US government has taken to disrupt Chinese net those are largely taking down US small and home office to actually attack US They're just the path that Second, you know, the is equally concerning. I think you've seen more recently cases, in this case, not China, but more often than not North Korean, putting IT workers to who give them privileged or in some cases they'll be masquerading as an employee from a third country, but they're really gonna be So that is real, and US are dealing with that. But they're hiring workers that they think pass the clean bill of health, but they're actually cybersecurity workers who are both maybe doing some work on the side, but more importantly, to get hard currency for the country, or- - I wanna go to one more question. - Sure. - I believe there's one Yes, please. - Great, thank you. Sabina Ewing, Abbott. So given that I think the when we look at the competition they could put 10 million How, from your government experience, and now at SentinelOne, is the cyber tech advocating for more of a to how we go after 'Cause I don't know about but when I think about my cyber workforce, I don't have a million And if a tank, I often say if a tank rolled up to the headquarters I would be expecting, the US government to respond, whereas right now I have to in the equivalency, for cyber. So I'm just curious how you all see that. - Yeah, no, I appreciate that, and I, you know, I like to say that, you know, in the next conflict, the the private sector it is the front line. That is the fact in cyber, that things are gonna go that's what we're seeing today. It is also true that we for total capacity, given what they're They have the ability to walk to continue to expand their at the same time that they're expanding their ability to target networks for future attack and disruption. I think what separates us that's happening here, and the vibrancy of our They don't have the same type of vibrant private sector And oftentimes, that's between success or failure to us. And if we're able to continue to innovate and look for ways to scale our solutions across our entire country, that's the way in which we're when it comes to cyber. Being smarter, focusing on what matters, being ruthless about prioritization, and ultimately working between to use all the innovation we can, protect our most critical systems. It is gonna require that No company should expect against the nation state, but a lot of the burden And the government should be there to help and assist where it can. It can do things that the private can't, like disrupting operations overseas, disrupting their making it harder for them to operate. But ultimately, working I think is our best hope that we face ahead of us.