- Hi it's me, Tim Dodd We're less than a week Starship update from Elon Musk, and before the party gets started, we're already catching some major changes happening before our eyes. That's because as we the Mark 1 Starship prototype, where the presentation will And of course, because it's being built out in a field in public, we're seeing some major The most obvious change is the fact that the Starship has air-brakey things now instead of three, and the previous version touted just a year ago showed Starship sporting three fins that were also its landing legs. So now that we're seeing it only has two, the question has come up, Why, why just two? So today, we're gonna do on why two might be better than three, show you some potential and then we'll show you the re-entry and landing Let's get started. - [Mission Control] Three, two, one, and liftoff! - [Neil] That's one small step for man. - [Mission Control] That's - Okay, first things first. I think it'd be fun to on this fun little bit of engineering while we get ready for so, when it gets revealed, And since I've been way too working on what's become literally a documentary I figured I'd better crank out a nice easy video here in the meantime. Okay, so now before we get going, I wanted to remind you They are really just giant air brakes, or body flaps, as Elon once called them. Ew. (laughing) They are perpendicular to the but we'll call them fins or flaps interchangeably in this video. And another note. We're gonna use Kerbal Space Program here in this video. And if you're triggered by a We're gonna use Kerbal to and demonstrate some of the solutions, but we're doing this knowing for validations or argument sake. Regardless, it's still of the basic physics, and it some of the challenges involved. Okay, so let's start off of why there's now two Wait, according to Elon Musk, &quot;Current analysis, which &quot;suggest that two rear fins &quot;with separate airframe-mounted &quot;so this is the plan So it sounds like there may be some internal debate and for now, two fins But part of me thinks that Elon really loved the old-school look of the three fins at the rear. I know he mentioned how it reminded him of Tintin's rocket many times, and considering how much this might actually be kind of true. - I think it looks beautiful. And I love the Tintin rocket design, so I kind of wanted to - And I'm a little torn because I thought it was super cool that the landing legs were But then again, there was that third leg that didn't articulate at all and would've had a lot of and not to mention, making also handle the weight and would've likely been rather Now, I'm not saying it and it might not be something but for now, the easiest path forward for these first prototypes, if they separate the it might have simplified Not to mention, say you and broke a landing integrated into your that helps you survive I mean, that's unlikely, but might not be a bad thing, especially as they develop the vehicle. And after all, don't forget, are really just technology demonstrators. They're flying science experiments that are built as inexpensively to start shaking out some Nothing on Starship is set in stone. I mean, look at how much in such a short timeframe. Starship is taking that So, if the easiest path forward for now is landing legs on the body sweet, yeah, get it going. At last year's Dear Moon event, it stood out to me that how the third leg is only a leg and it's not a rear and mostly because on re-entry that fin is entirely in and it doesn't even touch the airstream. Later on, if it does prove to integrate the landing nothing's going to stop SpaceX from evolving Starship to do exactly that. But in the meantime, I actually think that the aerodynamics team at SpaceX was likely begging engineering for a few reasons. Now, here's where we're going to get into speculation land for a little second, but I've always been questioning because of some basic physics. About exactly your ago I did a video about the belly-flop maneuver, and in order to help I had to keep the fins and I needed to keep them behind the center of mass on descent. Here, let me show you something. The general rule of thumb you want your center of pressure or lift behind your center of mass. Otherwise, if the vehicle moves away from its heading at all, the or torque on the vehicle, and since it's in front, Say it pulls up just a little, that's going to change the which will make it pitch up a little more, which will change the angle which will make it want which will change the angle which will make it wanna, until you lose control, and that surface will want where it belongs. That's because, in the back, those forces actually do and work to stability's advantage. When a craft starts to the fins apply torque The further away from the more torque it applies, which makes it very inherently stable. This principle applies to Starship during three different phases, and it does so in three That's why, when we started of the three-fin Starship ascending on the super-heavy booster, my eyes got a little wide When I saw that, I thought It's probably not gonna it's probably gonna flip right over and orient itself so the Now, that's not to say it can't be done, because the engines have an awful lot of control authority with their gimbal, and they can help maintain But in general, it's much, with large aero surfaces that far out in front Luckily, computers are really good at managing crazy aerodynamic properties, which is why all modern fighter jets are inherently unstable where computer actually interprets and moves whatever surfaces necessary to move the aircraft (upbeat music) Okay, so why would two be Won't two still be an issue? Besides the fact that there's there's something two can do that three can't really do easily, and that's get tucked in While on ascent, a pair of fins can easily tuck in against their airframe and mostly negate their Both the top and bottom fins will do this. Whereas three fins, an immobile landing leg only, can't really tuck in out I mean, sure, they could've tucked two in and left the third one out and kept that more in during its gravity turn, but it's still just not the Okay, but forget ascent. I'm sure they can do that no problem either way if they had to. The bigger challenge is actually with the descent of Starship, And again, this has everything to do with tucking the fins in. Let's actually watch the that Elon showed at last You'll see the vehicle to tail-down flip at only about while still traveling at Now notice, during this landing phase, the rear fins are tucked in all the way until the very last second. But even so, the vehicle has one giant fin fully eating the wind stream Any movement away from will induce a lot of torque. And again, the gimbals on the Raptors and the attitude control thrusters can offset all of this torque and hopefully maintain stability, but if you have the option of eliminating something and make your vehicle lose control, it might not be a bad idea to change it. And Elon did go on to say, &quot;Stability is controlled &quot;of rear and forward fins &quot;as well as ACS thrusters,&quot; &quot;The smaller leeward fin would But I think he's mainly because during the actual landing portion, the legs and upper fins on their dihedral axis. Now, if these fins had the ability to also act like canards, two axes of control through I can see where the But during the final they are essentially passive. Notice, with just the again, just like on ascent, we can tuck them in against the fuselage and mostly negate their Not to mention, there aren't that are sticking out below the engines, which would put them in front of the airstream of the which again is a bad thing. The other problem with is a little more complicated, but I'll bet the aerodynamics going over the properties of When re-entering, the vehicle will be completely belly-flopping, and that is, coming in broadside with its Well, hold on actually. It'll mostly belly-flop. But it sounds like, &quot;It does actually generate &quot;which is important to In other words, it could which would allow the body to create a little additional lift, which and make sure it doesn't ever get too hot. With three legs, they're attached at a 120 degrees apart from each other, which puts the two fins that articulate awfully close to the center Now, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. In fact, a traditional capsule shape intentionally has a center of pressure in front of the center of mass. This is known as blunt body dynamics, and in 1952, H. Julian Allen of NACA, now NASA's Ames Aeronautical Lab, discovered a capsule was most stable and dissipated the most heat when it had a blunt surface So, perhaps the fins could but considering how much they actually need to I could see it again being less stable than having those fins I even wonder if they do end up going with integrating the legs if they'll have a retractable third leg that would be in the front of the vehicle, so facing windward, and let the other two fins for better passive stability. So this is another time when partially retracted would have a better, more But again, I'm sure they really cool ways to deal with some of these things. But I'm thinking they actually made a significantly more stable vehicle by only having two fins in the rear. If we see them tucked in on that kind of proves that Okay, so that's a quick overview of why I think two is better than three. So let's have some fun, just how exactly you can control with just two upper Now, this method of control because that third fin on the back was really completely passive so everything we talk about here is the same way it would've worked with three fins in the back too. It's actually a really I've never really seen anything like this. Remember, these flaps are and not parallel like the wings The only thing we can do the amount of drag each one produces. Remember, a plane typically uses a change in lift or deflection to induce pitch, yaw, and roll. Starship will essentially use drag brakes to control its pitch, yaw and roll, and most aircraft do not do this. My favorite example of this which doesn't have a tail stabilizer. So, in order to induce yaw, it actually opens up what's which can induce drag on which then controls the jet's yaw. Here's how this works. Now, we're still gonna our frame of reference To induce pitch, the top and bottom fins can move opposite each other. One extends more while the other retracts, which can help pitch the To induce roll, the left and right flaps can move opposite each other. Extend one side more than the other and the vehicle will roll. But you can even induce yaw. For this, we move opposite Top left and bottom right can move opposite of the top right and bottom left. This will induce yaw as it belly-flops through the atmosphere. And this is exactly why Elon keeps saying this vehicle is more like a A skydiver needs to use their limbs to control themselves in something I once found out I'm awful at. It's a lot harder than it looks. Every tiny bit of movement I thanks to the grids on my grid fin. So, throughout re-entry, continually adjusting the flaps to maintain orientation but they can also adjust to help perfectly nail And don't forget, the vehicle can also use attitude control thrusters But with that being a limited quantity, the more work the flaps can do the better. Now, it's gonna maintain this because that belly-flop of slowing it down without so they really wanna do that After all, as soon as it goes tail down, it's actually a lot more aerodynamic and will fall a lot quicker, so the engines actually Once the vehicle's ready to do its flip, they're going to tuck the rear fins in and extend the upper ones. Then they'll light up three and alongside with the ACS, they're going to reorient the rocket so it basically ends up landing (uplifting music) And then, when the timing is just right, they're going to extend throttle the engines just perfectly and hopefully make a Yes, there we go. Okay, that's the one. (laughing) Yes! That's what I'm talkin' Now, that will be something to see. I mean, come on, I can't help but laugh about how ho-hum Falcon 9 God, we really do have the attention span of a bunch of five-year-olds, don't we? And in case you're wondering, yes, I do have the craft It's all stock, but it does utilize Kerbal Breaking Ground So, to summarize, I truly don't think aerodynamic considerations we're now seeing two fins on Starship, but I can't help but think it's And when dealing with something that's as big as a skyscraper with hundreds of tons of it's probably a good idea to It sounds like the primary And just again a friendly reminder, I don't think I know better than anyone on the subject matter. I'm literally the last person you wanna have working on your spaceship. But teaching some of these fun principles and applying them to new And knowing just how much Elon I still think his love was a big factor in having three fins, because quite frankly, But what do you think? Do you like the two fin the old retro-throwback three fin version? Do you think they'll stick or do you think we'll after these Mark 1 and Mark 2 prototypes? Do you think they'll tuck in on ascent and portions of descent as well? Let me know what you think and let me know if you have any other landing burn, Raptor engine, Starship, or just rockets in general, And be sure and stick am I going down to Boca Chica I'm also going to do a doesn't have an abort system. And of course, I'll hopefully about aerospike engines done soon as well. I promise, it's coming along great, and hopefully, you learn I of course also a huge thank for helping me make all content possible, including traveling around all the time, trying to get as much content out there for you guys as I can. It's been a crazy time lately and you guys are definitely If you wanna join our exclusive subreddit, our exclusive Discord or gain access to exclusive live streams, or even give your input to scripts and catch errors on videos please consider becoming a Patreon member by going to patreon.com/EverydayAstronaut. Thank you. And while you're online, be which is getting way Seriously, you have to check it out. We have lots of awesome stuff. And if you see something in there, you better get it while it's in there because we do runs of shirts now. So, that means the quality can go up, we can do custom things like have tags and lots of other cool things. So if you see something, otherwise it might not be coming back and it might be too late. And don't forget, if you work you can click on the of any apparel item, and you as my thank you to you and for helping inspire So head on over to Thanks, everybody. That's I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut, bringing space down to (upbeat music)