[Music] This right here is the Ninja when I first heard about the Luxe Cafe, &quot;Can it make real espresso?&quot; And I can say it it can. Ninja was not screwing around when it included a couple of really cool, interesting and I will show those, along with a couple So, it can do espresso. It can also do a normal which is hidden away in a little and what you'll notice is it's an it is not the pressurized type. That is the first has real baskets. If we just take a look metal. There, as you can see, I do believe that would be my best guess. The handle itself is portafilter, and it weighs 450g, so that's a basket right there, so you can see the double nice traditional basket. It is also keyed, so and that is so the machine can determine which double espresso basket. Oh, and another thing I It's got a couple of interesting features. We'll Right now, I've got espresso selected. It shows me recommended grind setting. So, when you initialize espressos, and it will realize if that was too either grind finer or grind more coarse. So, we're show you what I think is the coolest feature so of fun. Take the portafilter out like that. so we've got this funnel. Just stick that on the machine like this, you'll see it's actually comes with an integrated scale built into So, let's just do some grinding. Start grind, quiet. Okay, so it's done. That's what the tap it to even it out. Then, we're going to use interesting--the bottom part is solid; I believe so it's pretty fun to use also. All you've press down on it, and you're good to go. You more if you want, and that is your finished puck put that back in its spot, and we're going to put put this into the machine, lock it in, and This machine does include pre-infusion. It is a take a fair amount of time. You'll also see that can put it all the way up for an espresso, a larger drink, just like that. This is also see right now we've got espresso selected and and we'll see what it looks like. [Music] Oh, full of crema. These are nice fresh beans. Oh where the machine stops. Alright, it stops at 42g. can see, full of crema. This is a Robusta blend, fresh bean, so I expect crema for that reason I do expect some earthy flavors, maybe a bit That is a pretty nice, balanced espresso right lowest setting. You do have low, medium, and for a Robusta, and in particular, and that is a tasty espresso. I and because it is so much on the dark side, from this video? Please take a moment to like and because that's my favorite drink. This machine others that I have experienced so far. Let me and it works differently than the other machines inside. So, you've got the injection here of the warming up the milk inside here, and you've got to actually be able to give you that vortex that Now, what I will say is this: What I find a the fact that the lip on it right here is not fine bulbous there, so you won't be able to practice this milk pitcher. But operation is simple. so here is the froth side. We've got dairy and I'm going to choose this middle one right or the little bit thicker one, or the thickest. choose a cold milk foam. I'm going to go with this does have a progress bar that you can see here. it's going to take. Alright, so there you can see and it's turning at the same time with that little because I do find that this heats up the milk do have, in the settings menu, the possibility to milk temperature is concerned, but even the low You've got to make sure to wipe off the steam onto the wand, which is not good. The milk for an automatic milk foam, that's quite I find, is not very easy So, we got a little design there, if you take this milk that has been frothed latte art. Let me show you what I have been frothed and put it in a pitcher like got a better lip for doing latte art on it. This more ergonomic to use one of these to do latte Of course, the question is: How's the taste? It's and it does a pretty nice job with the milk for a little bit more texture, you can just go thicker texture. This is more like something Cleanup is pretty easy. I and then you're good to go. If you want all you have to do is put it inside there amount and start that--just put a drop of Okay, so what else I mentioned is that this Another thing is the puck knockouts are pretty knocked right out. So, those puck knockouts have and put in the Luxe basket. We're going to pop there, and it is keyed, so now the machine knows Now, if we want to go to coffee, all we have from the espresso side over to the coffee side, a slightly higher ratio of coffee to water--it stick with Classic, and we're going to do 10 oz. from the beginning: 6 oz, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and Let's just do 10 oz for us, and it's telling me, and we have to go up to 25." So, what we're going We're going to make it coarser, so I'm going see that it has an encoder on there--it knows Let's grind into our portafilter. Start is how coarse the grind is. Considering that the but we'll just kind of level it out like that, put our cup on there, and press the Alright, so the coffee is all and let's just see what that tastes like. intense, strong coffee--hot too, 73degC. espresso or cappuccino, you can make One more thought before I there is a scale in here. For the double 17.5g--anywhere between 17.3 up to 17.9g have tried three different beans with this it's able to measure out the dose that you're thing when you are dialing in an espresso So, let's see how many grams we get for 10 grind. Okay, so for 10 oz of coffee, we get so we're going to do that next. As you can so we're going to tighten the grind Let's do a 10 oz cold brew. Before we can grind, we have to rinse because the We've got to rinse, so let's do that. Rinse... okay, alright, here we go with our cold brew. doing this with 20g of coffee. Let's start fill the sucker up--that's 37 oz, by the way, in and now we can start our brew. This is supposed it takes. It's brewing at 38degC, which is pretty Alrighty, and there is our pretty tasty. Add some milk to that, As far as the build quality is concerned, I out of a mixture of materials--you've got some drip tray is made out of a mixture of stainless the reservoir has a fair capacity. It's it's full of water and needs to be emptied. honestly. The molding of the--I'm guessing it's was expecting, to be honest. It does have so you get that nice stainless steel look on the As far as the dimensions are concerned, it's wide, about 15 inches tall, and about 13 with that being the case, I wish there are no handles--I find that unfortunate because has an integrated scale in it. So, I've got to While we're doing that, let's just have a you've got this really cool area where you can put the tamper in. It's nice and satisfying on this side, you've got this really things. You can fit your large filter and you've got a little back-flushing disc is included so that you can back-flush the so that's a good sign. It also comes with some up with the maintenance of your machine. It comes fits in this nice little cubby hole right here. I This is the water tank here--fits 37 oz. the top part actually has a cup warmer Now, as far as the pros and cons go on this make real espresso, comes with a non-pressurized What I really love is the fact that it has automatic milk steaming also does quite a good actually get a vortex going. And yeah, you can do and make a cold brew. It's got quite a bit What's a little unfortunate is if you ever something else--like if you just grind but then instead--there's no way to just abort. You have it back on--that's a little unfortunate. And you are grinding for espresso, you almost around 40g out, so that's a little over a particularly for darker roast beans, you just have to stop it on your own. But Now it's up to you guys. What do you think does it compare to other machines that thanks very much for watching the video. If you below. Until next time, I say happy coffee [Music]