I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs, I've chosen the Union Pacific &quot;Big however, I've also made many period-correct Big Boy came to be in late 1941, at the latter most powerful steam locomotives ever produced. 25 To give you an idea of its size, from the mid 1800's, placed side by side. from earlier steam engines to our model, they The engine and tender combined weigh about 604 need something like 4 modern engines to pull a speed is around 70 miles per hour on level track. a source of heat The volume of water expands creating pressure that can be used to do work. to rotate the wheels, and temperature in the process. A tender rides behind the and a large water tank. details of each system, starting with the At the bottom of the firebox, a bed of coals Shaking the grates releases spent coals and ashes, dump the coals entirely. with doors that open between wheel Air for combustion enters through Specially sized gaps between the rate of airflow up into the coal bed. are called sheets, with side and rear sheets, and the crown sheet on top. There are circulator tubes extending from increase water circulation in the boiler. The brick arch directs heat, flames, and smoke firebox, for cinder and spark reduction, even Billows of black smoke out of the smokestack unburned particles in the exhaust smoke. automatic stoker, which we'll examine later. closely monitor and tend to the fire. Some air Hot exhaust smoke travels through on its way toward the smokestacks at the front. degrees Farenheit range (982.2 - 1649 degC) and is mostly filled with water. this water, turning it into steam which per square inch of pressure on the boiler walls. the boiler exterior help components keep their Water must cover the firebox sheets at all times being closest to the top of the is most vulnerable to exposure. bare metal, causing boiler failure and rapid resulting in a massive explosion. exhaust flows offer much more surface There's a steam dome at the top where Blowdown valves help clean the boiler interior. top rear of the boiler which uses centrifugal out. It's electrically managed from a signal And a manually operated Contaminants and particles in water may coat over time. Contaminants can also cause foaming, leaves water content in the resulting steam. water or steam (depending on which type the outside, carrying contaminants with it. invisible to the human eye. Steam you can see most importantly: steam can be compressed, The dizzying tangle of steam-driven all based on compressing or expanding steam. If they're likely to break instead. there are safety valves near the Water flowing into the boiler must boiler pressure. For safety and efficiency, There's a mechanical pump under the The main water connection At the front of the engine, there's an exhaust uses hot exhaust steam to operate. visual to show you how it works. the injector at high pressure but low velocity. pressure is converted into high velocity. in the following chamber, water into the stream from a water supply nozzle. for a fast moving water stream. further intensifies the process. as it approaches the outlet at the other side, stream turns back into pressure again so it Also worth noting, there's a supplementary to keep the injector running. mounted under the engineer's side of the Water from injectors enters the boiler A turret mounted at the top back of the the many supporting appliances needed to run the Now, let's follow the steam There's a steam dryer mounted in the dome. which spins a wheel with fins to fling for an initial water separation stage. the superheater unit, which is suspended The superheater does just what it says, dry gas. Superheated steam can also do more The steam produced inside the and needs to be completely separate from Some of the previously shown tubes The superheater has a network of its own close contact with super hot firebox exhaust. and maximum heating time. One down The now superheated steam leaves the superheater A very long throttle rod extends all the to a pivot joint, As the engineer advances the throttle lever, greater control over the quantity of This steam travels out through steam pipes, and pistons, which we'll see in a minute. called the smokebox, which has its own set of A violent mix of smoke, cinders, flues and tubes into this compartment. to slow these flying particles, At the end of this path, there's a metal screen escaping the smokestacks can cause trackside As steam engines grew in size over the years, smokebox for clearance through tunnels and so on. centered above blast nozzles. drive cylinders exits through these nozzles This configuration turns otherwise wasted The powerful jets generate a tremendous air into the firebox for a livelier fire. contact area with the fast-moving jet streams. with secondary openings for the same to be drawn into the exhaust steam jets. the stacks, which are designed to lift to prevent visibility issues for the crew. and see how it's put to work. the exterior of the boiler, to cylinders Big Boy has four cylinders, two down the length of the locomotive. driven back and forth by compressed steam as it The piston rod is anchored to the supporting channel. [label &quot;crosshead guide&quot;] translates the piston's linear back and Steam delivery is managed Superheated steam flows in at the center. The As the piston valve travels, it exposes a port pushing the piston in turn its stroke, the piston valve has also moved, revealing an exhaust passage at its end. to exit through this exhaust passage on This same process happens at the back of the The piston and valve continue their synchronized spent exhaust as the train chuffs down the track. is controlled by the valve gear. timing entirely, sending the piston, wheels, Let's see how it works. here is called a Walshearts valve among various devised during the steam era. and forth motion to the expansion link and through another rod to the valve. [label rod] system here, through a couple linked levers this bit further alters valve open and It's mesmerizing to watch, isn't it. channel with a sliding pin. lever connects to the system. moves the reverser lever, As you can see, this changes the position of the At each extremity, valve timing As the pin nears the neutral or center position, forward or reverse side of the channel, from slight piston effects at the very center. We're traveling forward, and the pin As the reverser lever moves, the pin Now the valve's timing alters, of the cylinder with fresh hot steam, This system also lets the engineer deliver For a hard pull when starting may be more towards the full forward position. can back the lever off some, since less steam The reverser lever has a power reverse cylinder With almost innumerable moving metal There are front and rear mechanical driven through a linkage to the valve gear. the driving wheels through connecting rods. this connection point for more balanced rotation. let's zoom out and look at the whole frame. where the two main frame sections are joined allowing these sections to move Without this arrangement, the engine would be There's a leading truck which supports the front frame section. The rear frame directs the locomotive into The steam piping at the front has ball joints The locomotive in full articulation is an end hanging far to one side over the lead truck. as a 4-8-8-4 locomotive, with four leading and 4 trailing wheels. A system of leaf springs where space allows, Suspension for each individual wheel set is such that if one axle dips or rises, It's also equalized side-to-side through beams There's an equalization beam which to rest at the center pin of the lead truck, The trailing truck has suspension equalization rear frame section, system of leaf and coil springs. movement device for cushioning as they Frame sections are designed For example, the third driver wheel set and each subsequent axle is allowed The leading truck center pin has its there are various ways to accomplish this goal. is suspended on pairs of pins As the truck and center pin sway with to accommodate themselves as necessary, Brakes Air is generated by two steam-driven side of the pilot at the front. with high and low pressure compartments for makes for more efficient operation overall. are mounted underneath the forward platform. compressor air travels through the tubes side of the boiler. [label &quot;main reservoirs&quot;] each main frame section. armature which links everything together. Brake shoes are situated at the back of the wheels' metal tires to slow the train. and linkages to actuate brake shoes at each wheel. whole train, with controls in the cab to apply all cars together, or some combination of both. which is blown at the wheel and track to metal surfaces when necessary. domes sit atop the boiler shell, There are valves to control sand flow and As for other items visible at the the front with two sets of number plates. for clearance, since the boiler is so large. the smokestacks. rearward for a look inside Big Boy's cab, There are four seats, fireman, and a spare. train operation, and the locomotive itself, as The fireman handles steam production, systems closely throughout continuously also in charge of left side visibility. and also watches for journal box or hotbox up and catch fire. The brakeman also handles The boiler extends right into the cab, with It's covered with critical Let's look at the controls a little closer, The knob at the right front corner controls cleaning scale out of the boiler. which controls the valve gear. for blowing sand on the rails. are dual gauges to monitor brake system air Moving towards the engineer's seat, there's throttle rod running down the side of the boiler. the headlights. chain hangs nearby at about shoulder level. The leftmost lever controls The smaller right lever controls Down to the left side of the seat, there's injector, which injects water into the boiler. there's a knob to admit water Moving back to the engineer's view, let's There are knobs to open or close cylinder cocks, For example, if the train has sat and system may have drained by gravity into There's the rail washer above that, which was The yellow triangular knob controls emergency There's the main boiler pressure gauge. At the center of the backhead, there engineer and fireman respectively. aware of the boiler's water level Sight glasses are placed at a vertical offset water levels in varying conditions, for The long copper tube at the top its length allows steam to cool, resulting from the top of the glass to keep it clean, There are blowdown valves and for the water columns that serve each pair, At the engineer's side, there are three valves glass monitoring range, called &quot;try cocks&quot;. or water as indicated in the sight glass, to proper boiler water lever is simply too Moving along, the dynamo valve controls which supplies electricity for onboard lights. indicate safe or unsafe foam The blower is installed inside the smokebox circulate more air through the firebox. side of the cab and backhead. the train's steam-powered heating, The leftmost gauge is a Beneath that, a gauge to monitor To the right, there's the stoker pressure gauge. Moving down, we see the exhaust And further down still, and water regulator valve for the same injector. At the midpoint, there's a collection of which has individual steam jets to blow At the bottom, there's a collection of valves to Moving back to the center, we It has an air cylinder to aid Rotating the lever turns a set of There's also a foot pedal to actuate these doors Now, let's head outside the The tender carries coal and water The water tank surrounds the coal bunker, and The coal bunker can hold 32 tons of coal. 427,500 lbs (193,910.7 kg). sides to direct coal into the which is part of the automatic stoker. There's a two-piston steam driven motor with a line of rotating shafts that which turns the auger screw. the central channel. The auger crushes and also carries the crushed The screw is divided into rotating sections, the tender and engine can move independent The crushed coal bits are pushed below steam jets Valves in the cab control pressure to to specific areas as needed, for fine-tuned Steam locomotives are impressive in so many powerful reactions into a beautiful, rhythmic, its own right, no matter our accompanying