Angry Nintendo Nerd! Atari Nerd! Sega Nerd! PlayStation Nerd! Tiger Electronic Wristwatch Game Nerd! Form Angry Video Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! What do you get when you take Voltron, Saved by the Bell, and put 'em It was like an extended toy commercial, with It was martial arts, it was comedy, it was It was mechanical dinosaurs! It was robots A turtle with a traffic light on its head! And written around all these Japanese action Power Rangers uses stock footage from a a tradition which still continues to this very day, with two Adapting a show that's crazy to begin with, and taking the insanity of both cultures and but no, it went over big! In fact, in its prime Mighty Morphin Power Rangers was And of course that meant video games. Video games up the ass. It's so far up the ass it would be impossible so here's just a sampling of SOME and I'm counting on at least one Let's start at the beginning, I have a couple Keeping in mind, this is the show The first game, released in 1991, This is based on the 15th season of Super Sentai, You pick your character and then have It's a simple, mediocre side scroller. The controls are smooth enough, except the pause button is Select Start is the special move - every time I try to pause Two of the characters use a sword, two of them It's like they tried giving all the but got only halfway before they ran out of time. And why wouldn't you pick the character When one of them dies, you lose that but the levels are so short and easy. You're more likely to die on the boss, and in The boss battles are the most It's like two toasters boxing! You just mash buttons, then block, then mash it does look cool, I'll give it that, but I am not a fan of jump-punching. How do And why does one of the legs shrink? Like Huh. Every now and then you can charge up Yeah, psshhh! Psshhww!! The next game, released in 92, was based on and the one which became the basis And listen here, it has the Zyuranger theme song! ZYURANGER, ZYURANGER DENSETSU NO SENSHI-TACHI YO ZYURANGER This game is more linear, you go through the stages Once again it's pretty self-explanatory, you just Halfway through you get a new weapon, You're just blindly swinging a knife around, The 1981 version of Halloween 2. What the hell? I have to say, I barely With this platform-jumping, spikes and lousy But now I'm at the boss! And I almost got it... Alright! Yeah, sometimes it takes a while to ... what just happened? No... No, tha- that wasn't real... So I beat the first stage - again, and sure enough, it drastically switches as A game called Megazord and It's Megazord and Dragonzord Imagine if when the new Godzilla vs. King Kong movie Yeah, King Kong plays ping pong! And then fuckin' Forrest Gump shows up! Would you be disappointed, or would it be the most As you progress through the game, you take and surprisingly, it gets much easier, probably I can't think of any other game where all the difficulty Is that the Blue Ranger, or Mega Man? In between each stage there's these weird also there's a bomb toss game, except it's hot bomb, blows up in your face. Then there's a trivia game. Unfortunately I can't read Japanese, But anyway, the password system is It's three images of a Ranger, each so it's not really a password, it's more like a &quot;pass-pose&quot;. And if you try different combinations, Unlike the show, there was no American There's an unofficial cartridge that but the only difference is the label and But could you imagine if there was a Power Rangers and added American stages, To simulate this experience, just play and then switch it to Super Sentai Zyuranger. Yeah, it's pretty amazing how much mileage You know what, to get through this video, I might as ASS! FUUUCK!!! DIIIIEEEE!!!! [screaming] The Famicom games are mediocre, but not Next up, Power Rangers on Super Nintendo. Well hot damn, it has the theme It even has vocals! &quot;Go Go Power Rangers!&quot; You can select anybody from the initial Ranger lineup, each one of them has their own which actually makes it fun to try It's just an average beat 'em up game, all and it can get monotonous, but Like Robin Hood. You start out in your regular clothes, The only thing they slacked on was the which is surreal to see Trini, for Each Ranger has their unique weapon, and a grand Yeaaah! But the game fights you back on it eventually Augh, it's just like a giant middle finger, saying &quot;FUUUUCK YOOUUUU!!!&quot; I hate this thing! Oh wait, it kills enemies too? Now I like it. And you power up your health with chicken legs. Save some for Simon Belmont! It ends with a Megazord battle, which is clunky and only a slight improvement over but it looks great! For the time It was just like playing an episode of the show. Nothing much to get angry about here. There's another one on Super Nintendo, Featuring Ivan Ooze! Remember that, because otherwise it has nothing to do with the movie. It's another beat 'em up, but there's this weird jumping thing you like you have two separate two- Couldn't they just take a hint from But the big problem with this - It's way too hard! I had no problem finishing the other game, so Let's check out Power Rangers on Sega Genesis. Okay, so it's a Street Fighter-style game. A shitty one that uses only two of the buttons! Yoga Fire! The problem here, once again, is the difficulty. The game just punishes you over and over again! It forces you into using cheap moves. Yeah, I'll just keep spinning There's not much to say here. Back in the day, if but now it's just like finding an old, dried It no longer smells, it's not hurting anybody, it Then there's the Sega CD game. Well, if you felt like watching the show in shit quality then this is the game for you. It's trying to be like the Dragon's Lair but in Dragon's Lair, if you fail to press the button A different video is loaded to show Here, no matter what you do, the You'd think if you missed a button, the They actually do get hit sometimes, whether or not it syncs up with what All they did was take the show and This is the cheapest way possible That would be like watching an episode of Green Acres Wanna play Power Rangers on Sega CD? At least it's not Simon's Quest. Alright, let's crank up that diarrhea dial, here's Power Rangers Lightspeed Okay, first of all.. I'm not trying to be vulgar... ... but what does that look like? You shoot laser projectiles out your vagina!! Yeah, I had to double-check because it looks more like the The objective is to clean up green slime. Nice, that's appealing, I thought Superman had it bad the Power Rangers have to clean up nasty mucus! At least there's enemies to fight, but even that is boring. All you do is run and shoot, there's no jump, no crouch, This is a game that was designed You can even run through enemies! Oh look, they're coming out of the And when you run behind the But not completely, they become Yeah, ever had that happen? It's a very spacious game, there's no hallways If you run in any direction it'll be minutes How far do these boundaries go? I just keep running and running And for whatever reason they so instead it abruptly stops and starts up again. [music quickly fades out, then fades back in] It's a very jarring shift in tone, not to mention Oh, except the title screen, which is so only two music tracks total! After that you get this awkward driving &quot;Ugh!&quot; &quot;Alright!&quot; Love hearing those voices over and over again! &quot;Over here!&quot; &quot;Alright!&quot; &quot;Over here!&quot; &quot;Alright!&quot; Over here! Alright! Over here! Alright! Over here!! Alright!! OVER HERE!!! ALL RIIIGGHHT!!! Next there's an awkward Megazord fight where It's all in first-person view, except when you but it's hard to stay close, so it Ugh... it's morphine time. I need some morphine. Then you get these flying stages. Again the goal is to rescue people, not much to say. &quot;Awww!&quot; Overall there's only four types of and the problem with this game is that it's too simple! N64 was capable of a lot more. [sigh] It's bad, but in a boring way. I've seen worse, see, my standards are much lower. It's not making obnoxious screeching sounds, you don't it doesn't glitch so bad you can't play it, it's not bright red and you have to hold it up to your eyes! So, I dunno, I'm not really feeling I wasn't gonna stoop this low, but So here's Power Rangers on Game Boy. Well, it's basically the same thing as the Super Nintendo And what's the point? Of course it's And don't get me wrong, there's lots of great exclusive The key word here is &quot;exclusive&quot;. I need to find something that isn't trying to be like But okay, that's weird. That's the most confusing So I punch the word &quot;NO&quot; away, so tha- that means or does that mean that the word -- yeah, yeah, I picked &quot;NO&quot;... fuck. Okay, so let's try out Power Rangers: Alright, this one is different. An exclusive Well, let me ask: If this follows the movie, which means they got the skin color wrong. But it IS Game Boy, and the only reason I these games were optimized for the Super Game Boy Otherwise, take a look at the Rangers. The Dark Green, Dark Green, Dark Green, Mine's the Dark Green Ranger. The gameplay is pretty much the same as You choose a Ranger, choose a stage, get in the Ranger suit, fight a boss, and so on. But the shit-factor skyrockets when you get an awkward jump-punching, cheap boss Let me explain here: There's a stage ... or stand on top of it. Classic. Imagine this Ranger doing his grocery shopping, Let me know if you ever see anybody doing that. Anyway, when you're standing on the cart, the D-pad but as soon as another cart shows up, it changes! Now the D-pad makes you walk OFF the I fell two feet from the ground! How do you die?! Couldn't it just Why does it have to kill you?! You're supposed to jump to the second cart, Naturally you're gonna push right while you're jumping, Your sudden instincts make you want to control you're so used to controlling the cart it comes If you're still touching the D-pad when If you let the carts touch, you die. Jump too soon, you die, jump too late, you die, you fuckin' die, and now you know Hey, name one game where the punch and Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: When you hit the button, it's a Then it's a punch, a kick, a punch, a kick, you try to attack but you end up doing the wrong move! You'll never know if it's going to be a punch or a kick! Unless you keep track the whole time! This problem escalates when you Let me tell you about this: You have to and it's a race against time because there's If it touches you, it's a one-hit death. You have to get rid of that sand You can't afford any wasted hits, which means you have to master the science behind this &quot;punch-kick&quot; phenomenon. The top square can only be taken out with a punch, the middle with a kick or a ducking punch, the bottom only with a ducking kick. So not only do you have to know but you also have to know when The only successful pattern I found is I can't even do it without saying it out loud! Duck-stand-stand, duck-duck-stand! Duck-stand-stand, duck-duck-stand! Fuck-shit-shit! Fuck-fuck-shit! Fuck-shit-shit! Fuck-fuck-shit! FUCK-SHIT-SHIT!! FUCK-FUCK-SHIT!! FUUUCK!!! Oooh, now I'm angry! Now that's what I'm talkin' about, you fuckin' game! Is that the way you like it? Power Glove Power! Power Pad Power! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! LaserScope Power! U-Force Power! Roll 'n Rocker Power! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Go Go Angry Game Nerd! Yeah... you fuckin' game.