I'm about to start working on my first real I found myself thinking back on the road how I went from not knowing anything my first commercial project. This is It was 2021. I had spent nearly two years going during this time. I was struggling with a huge I actually broke down in front of one of my much enthusiasm and passion, and it kept getting A curriculum that even our instructors thought saying that we were clearly not ready to get jobs so I decided that I was going to learn how to portfolio that I could build myself instead of That's what I did. I started learning web I went to a vocational high school where so I wasn't going in completely I decided to give game development a try just for So the first course I went through was a 2D was also trying to find a design job and learn the course It was fun. It took the aspects that I enjoyed about programming and married I had just finished the first section of the I can make games and put them online, so I had put it online to see what kind of traction it a text adventure game based off of the first The game was called Sister's Keeper and you're trying to save your sister after You could explore two different different stories and every decision The 2D course didn't teach much beyond the basic but I didn't just stop at what add things in like voiceover. I I even started to build out a whole story And I got help from another writer wasn't a shooter or action game, but this I got a job interview for a design role at interview and I thought I did pretty well. They said they were impressed with my the job. This might seem like bad news, but I got a job interview based solely on my design really gave me a boost in confidence. So I decided and focus on building out my portfolio more I continued with the course and I was really and not just stopping at what they were teaching. because I was actively going out on my own and laser defender game from the course and started And I think it turned out pretty good for a I had a vision. I could turn this game into a full game. This could potentially be my ticket I started working on this new project called but I knew this game would eventually be I gave up on a week later because I couldn't To be honest, I wasn't really interested in to start working on another game project and I had just finished the 2D game course and a simple 2D movement system I thought So I took another one of GameDevTV's courses get footage of the multiplayer game because, but this is the level. Whoa, look at that. doesn't that look cool? After finishing this was also getting into game development, and we We didn't have a solid name for the game, It was meant to be a 2D horror game where heroes. You were going to be maneuvering with limited movement abilities, trying We started talking about game design, and I but we ended up dropping the project, uh, sort of out of nowhere. But I think it was into multiplayer even after I finished on building out my design portfolio, and this You might be thinking, what? What? Big Leap, I thought you were going to focus on design, the stars aligned with this game jam. I was in this design server that focused just on design, But I didn't join as a programmer, first experience working with a team, and I did have a design partner that sort of some game development experience compared I really enjoyed working with her and game was a 2. 5D scavenger hunt and it's itch page. Looking back on it, the process but I don't think the end product was only reason why we ended up winning was because But hey, a win is a win. I still count designer. You can't take that away from I started working on more projects my friends introduced me to a free coding I thought it would be a great opportunity of students and the bootcamp had connections getting a job at the end of the program. their own game jam and were offering a free This. was another moment where the stars a group of students that were hungry enjoyed gaming as well. I asked if people were but people eventually started because we were still going through the web But I did have one partner on the project at Soul Collector. Soul Collector is a 2D platformer picking up lost souls to save them from eternal and that project is also available to the back of the positive feedback we got. I text adventure. I had quit the 2d side 2d horror platformer, but not this time. game success. And I started working I added some much needed improvements, speed running timer, improved dialogue I just couldn't move. I was so bewildered. I tried thing that I added was a speed timer and that To this day, I don't know what the problem was. later on, and that completely fixed it. I ended bug. This is literally the only time I have and it's one of my greatest shames Uh, I'm sorry. So collector, you deserve bootcamp and I started to dive really deep into interview opportunities at really big, notable far into the interview process at some of the I learned so much about programming. I learned libraries You call me spongebob because I I got far but I didn't get all the way but I was able to compete with Other people computer science But it did feel like I I have been trying for so long to then with programming, and I haven't had any myself just hopping around from freelance but I definitely couldn't have gotten this far Getting close to those high paying tech but it was also really emotionally draining. My brother had always been really supportive and I talked to him about maybe Seriously, this whole time I had not really seeing it as a viable option I but even then in the back of my mind I still felt do after talking with my brother He gave me game development dream off the ground Over the I've been learning about the business of about programming and unity and using based game course and started to join that I've been learning. I have two videos And now I feel like I'm at a point where game development, but I feel like I first commercial project and learn along is going to be dedicated to my brother for The working title for my first interested in seeing the development of that game, hit the subscribe button. Thank you for