When most people think of Babylon the Great Ishtar Gate or the Hanging But me? Well I think of fat tail sheep. And today I'll be making a broth of lamb that originally in 1740 BC may have included some fat tail sheep. So thank you to Crowd Cow for sponsoring this video as we travel back 4,000 years to dine as Babylonians, this time on Tasting History. This recipe comes from the Yale Babylonian tablets though what we end up with is more of a stew than a broth but meh close enough. Broth of lamb. Meat is used. You prepare water. You add fat. You add fine-grained salt, risnatu, onion, Persian shallot and milk. You crush leek and garlic. Vague but succinct which is the exact opposite of me as I am specific yet long-winded. Also thank you to Gojko Barjamovic Assyriologist at Harvard University for helping me with this video. His translations and insight into everything Babylon are invaluable. Now what's interesting is that Gojko is on the cutting edge of translating this language, and you'd kind of think that a topic wedged in clay but it's not. The understanding of the language and the culture is constantly evolving, and there's still some debate about Undoubtedly this is some sort of grain, probably but everything beyond that is kind of What was the liquid? Should they be flavored? And how are they used in this recipe? Everything's a bit unknown and so like so many ancient recipes we're just going to we're almost undoubtedly wrong. That said I made several versions, some that were more bread like some that I used full groats which were And then the one that I'm but again who knows. -\_(tsu)_/- So for this recipe what 1/3 cup or 75 milliliters of water. A quarter cup a half teaspoon of salt. So that is for the risnatu. For the rest of the broth you'll need one quart or one liter of hot water, a half cup or 100 grams of fat. Now the word used here specifically refers to animal fat and it was probably the fat from a fat tail sheep. Unfortunately in the US it's very hard to get a hold of that fat and if We found it but if you had to have it shipped in That was not going to happen. So you can use any They're going to work as well and they would have had them. Two teaspoons of sea salt, one onion diced, a quarter cup or 50 grams of chopped Persian So here's one that is also really hard to find and you're going to be hard-pressed to find a real substitute. It kind of tastes like a mild radish and nothing like a shallot, and then it leaves this garlic aftertaste, like minutes and minutes after you eat it. It's very odd and very good but you can find dried Persian shallot online, that's what I'm using. So just take a handful put it into water for about an hour and you'll have enough for your quarter cup, two cups or 475 milliliters sheep milk. You can also use cow or goat. A half cup of chopped leek, four to five cloves of garlic, and one pound or 450 grams of lamb cut into large bite size pieces. You can use any cut you want but I am using lamb shank that came from our sponsor Crowd Cow. Crowd Cow grass-fed pasture-raised or wild-caught. Their from turkey and pork chops, to wagyu beef to What I love is the connection that you get with the farm where the meat comes from. The award-winning lamb I'm using today comes from Cedar Park Grazing in Riddle Oregon, and last night I made pan seared scallops which came from Bristol Seafood, a family owned and operated company from Portland, Maine. They were soft and buttery and paired very well The diet starts tomorrow, I promise. And with the craziness of the holidays way to get all of your holiday meat. Everything then sustainably shipped to your door. Become a member for free and save 5% off of everything you add to your box, and for a limited time they are offering new members a $100 worth of free meat plus free shipping when you sign up in order using my link in the description below. Now back to the lamb, actually we have to So mix the barley flour and salt in a bowl and then add the water and the oil and mix. Once you have a ragged dough form it into little cakes and set them on a baking sheet into the oven at 425 degrees Fahrenheit or 220 Celsius for about 25 minutes. Then turn off the oven but leave them in there to dry. We want to get them nice and dry. Not as dry as hard and that is what you're going to do next. You and then also leave a few larger pieces Then for the stew take your onion and saute it or until they're translucent. While they cook take a large pot and melt a little bit of the fat in it, and then add the lamb and sprinkle a bit Then pour the hot water over the meat and add the rest of the salt and the rest of the fat. Bring it to a boil, and then lower the Then take the sauteed onion and add that to the and most of the risnatu crumbs. We're saving just a few of the bigger pieces for later. Then let that simmer for about 20 minutes. While it simmers put and then add the leek and mash them together. This also the time that if you want a little bit You can also determine if you want to leave the If you leave it off it's going to get thicker. Either way let it simmer for another 20 to 30 minutes, or until the lamb is nice and tender. Now of these different ingredients that have very new flavors as Kevin said about his chili. Everybody is going to get to know each other in the pot. But as it turns out in ancient Mesopotamia I feel like sheep get a baaaahd rap being portrayed as modern Portmanteau sheeple and in the ancient &quot;Israel is a scattered sheep; the lions have driven him away: first the king of Assyria hath devoured him; and last this Nebuchadnezzar King of Babylon hath broken his bones.&quot; Poor Israel, but also poor sheep, but it is this meek demeanor and tendency to follow a herd that allowed sheep to become one of the first domesticated animals, other than dogs who were domesticated long before and as a wonderful source of milk, meat, skins, and later wool, sheep became a contributing factor that led people to be able to settle into civilization. The first people who settled what would become Sumer were likely sheep hoarders and- Herders. Sheep herders, haha. Sheep hoarders that's a very, very different thing. Sheep herders Some of those words referred to a specific type a fat tail sheep. These sheep obviously provided buttery soft fat that was very popular in cooking The earliest depictions of fat tail sheep are and the prize for the best description of a fat tail who wrote, &quot;They have long tails no less allowed to trail on the ground would be bruised As it is, the shepherds have enough skill in carpentry to make little carts for their sheep's tail. The carts are placed under the tails each sheep having one to himself, Though most fat tail sheep did not have such could carry their own fat tail without the help of Now these and other sheep were prized in Sumer and ancient Babylon often being used as currency and appearing in many, many of their dishes. Though their relationship with grain, started out a little bit rocky. That is according to the in the 3rd millennium BC. See in the beginning and they went around naked but the Anunna or great gods sat on the holy mound Well one day for one of the banquets they decided and after trying them they realized meh didn't really like them, so they gave them to the gods Enki and Enlil to take down to the humans on Earth. Well the humans being used to grass loved them and treated them very, very well. And Grain and Sheep they made the people They fed them, they clothed them with wool it was really great, and Enki and but one night at dinner Grain and Sheep got a little tipsy. &quot;They drank sweet wine, they enjoyed sweet beer. When they had drunk, they started a quarrel concerning the arable fields and began a debate in the dining hall. Grain called out to Sheep 'Sister I am Rude and uncalled for, so Grain goes on to tout some of her accomplishments and gives all these mean little put downs to poor sheep. It was kind of like that insult dinner that Pan and Rufio have in the movie Hook. Well Sheep doesn't take this lying down and emboss their emblems on. I'm also what they use to and they use my stomach to hold water A little morbid but there you go. But Grain just smiles and says &quot;When the beer dough has been carefully prepared in the oven, and the mash tended in the oven, Ninkasi (the big billy goats and rams are dispatched for my Bangarang Rufio. Hard to top beer, and I do plan on doing a Sumerian beer episode where I make Sumerian beer, so be on the lookout for that. Anyway, Sheep takes it in stride and is like um You just get ground up into flour and &quot;When you fill the trough the baker's assistant mixes you and throws you on the floor, and the baker's girl flattens you out broadly. You are put into the oven... when you are put on the table I am before you- you are behind me.&quot; So Grain feelings hurt even though she started it goes to Enki and Enlil is like you have to decide which one of us is better, but before you do I have one more thing to say to Sheep. &quot;When your meat is taken away by the people in the marketplace, and when your neck is wrapped with your very own leather, one man says to another: 'fill the container with Basically without me, their ain't know you. Well Enki says, Sheep, Grain, you're sisters. equally, however since you asked &quot;of the two, Grain shall be the greater. Let Sheep fall on her knees before Grain. From sunrise to sunset, may the name Terrible parenting, you're never supposed to admit that you like one more than the other even if you do. Right mom? And that had to have scarred poor old Sheep, that childhood to this day. Though while their demeanor may be as will be shown by our stew. So once the stew is cooked long enough that the meat is nice and tender dish it up and sprinkle on a few of those risnatu and for added punch you can garnish with a little bit of chopped leek. And here we are Babylonian broth of lamb. I have to say it's not the prettiest dish. It's kind of- it's kind of odd because it's like the milk somewhat separates but also it's not entirely separated, and the- you know there's a lot of fat in it. It's not terribly pretty but it smells quite good. Let's give it a try. I'll try to get some of the risnatu croutons, here we go. Hmm! Very lamb-y. So obviously the lamb is nice but the croutons really add something croutons add a little bit of crunch, some And I love the Persian shallot, it really adds this- it's almost like if you added spice to it without adding spice. It really kind of creates this sharp zing to the flavorful but subdued. Nothing else really jumps Now I do really like it but the one thing I'll what the fat tail sheep fat would have would have been like because it is a little bit greasy, and it's supposed to be but I'm curious what that type of fat would be but I think there are so many possibilities with the quantities, how long you cook it, the type You don't have to use lamb and I cool. It would be a cool thing to experiment with. So thank you again to Crowd Cow for sponsoring this episode, link to sign up is in the description and if you crave more Babylonian content I'll put a link right here to the Tuh'u episode that I did last year,