- If I'm featured on the record, I got the hardest verse on that bitch. - Not on the record me and you on, though. - I don't care who is on there! - My verse is harder That's why you mad, let's tell the truth. That's why you mad. - Time out, time out. - I put out a mix tape. What did you do, Trick? - Time out. - You didn't put out no music! And I did your record for you. - Time out! - And I did the record for you and I killed you on the verse. And that's why you mad! So, let's talk about it We got a black, it's all black. I did your record, and I Let's talk about it. (hiphop music) (boom) - Suki, Suki, Sukihana. Tonight, you got on the stage You definitely was raised - Hello! - Period. - No fear, no nothing. You came professional. Your dance, your outfit, I'm ready to see you on tour. Let's ride! - Period! Period! Period! - I'll see you on tour. - Period! (crowd cheers) - Okay Let's save that for the tour though. I need her to save that for the tour. I love it. Thank you Suki! - Uh huh! - They did good. - Yes! - [00:01:01 inaudible] Y'all make some noise! (audience cheering) - So, Jayadeva. Nikki Natural, where you at? So here, check it out. I like y'all too. - Yeah! - I wanna see you guys do it again. - So, you just, so, me and her battling? - Yeah. - Why? (audience gasping) - Hold on. She's questioning the queen? - One, Miami Girl gonna get this spot. - Listen, I'm not battling nobody. The battling is done, the war is over. - Is she scared? - First of all, you got so much mouth and you not delivering on stage. You haven't earned the And the baddest bitch wins so get to it. Cut that mouth and put Let's go, you up first. What talking about? The (beep) you think you doing? Not (beep) dealing with this bitch. (audience screaming) (overlapping yelling) - Shut the (beep) up! - Step back. Let the person that's and do what they got to do. You're on tour! What the (bleep) The (beep) y'all talking about. (audience yelling) - Whatever, yo, I don't give a (beep)! - Yo, fall back. Ain't Fall back, fall back. Give me 50 feet. I auditioned this girl and I thought she did okay. But now she's losing her mind because I asked her to do another song. What is she thinking an audition is for? At an audition, you perform as many times as they wanna hear you, fool! Battling is a huge part of hip hop. And Nikki Natural should know that. I only want one diva on - Bad little bitch You know I'm from the hood Ass real fat, (bleep) real good. Yeah, you can look, Show me a couple of racks, Then I might let you (beep). - You gotta cut this mic off. (sound effect) - I'm just trying to flex I'm a paid little bitch but I still want a check - Yeah. Hey, sis, your mic is off, sis be quiet! Look, let me tell you the real, hey Trina. Yo Trina, your (beep) off too. Yo this is the real reason. - Nobody cares about you. - Except Trick Daddy (beep). (women yelling) - Turn the mic off! - Yo! Yo! I'm finna curse her out. - Yo mama, Ma! Ma! Check it out. Ma, this ain't about Trick - Yes, it is! Yes, it is bitch! - She (beep) on you and you mad! You are not ready for tour my (beep) I'm a real bitch! So needless to say, go back to Trick Daddy and tell him you lost. End of discussion. (loud hip-hop music playing) - I'm the mother (bleep) I gave you the floor Nikki. (audience yelling) - It's a wrap, it's a wrap. (upbeat music) They say I fell off, what Last time I checked, - After all of the distractions, and everything else, to finally see my album coming together. The track is sounding great, but I still have a lot more work to do. This is the record actually - I don't know if he know was going through something or something like that. - I'm done with the whole Trick thing. - Don't just hang it up yet - Listen, I'm done with - It's all about me now, done with that. - What's going on? Hi Reggie, Trina, hi. - Hi. - You look good. - I pride myself in giving And my team knows I But lately it seems like everybody's been forgetting why they're here. So, I called this meeting to make sure we're all crystal clear. The reason I got you guys here is because I'm up to here with everything. Now, the whole team to me right now, I feel like we're just like I don't feel like nobody's 100% in. KD, you're doing your own thing. Reggie's here, he's doing 50,000 things. Alvin, I don't know what Jullian, you are so far I can't even find you. I don't even know what to say. This album has been on I finally have an album date. What is going on? I feel like if you give they're gonna cut us off the label. You haven't been here, you're not around. You don't understand how I've watched four of my Two albums! Everybody's album out! Why mine is not out? People have pre-ordered Where's the album? What I wanna know is - I think we just gotta and just go. - We need to have dates, and - If this album does not I'm done. - Me and KD have been really working hard to make this (beep) happen. - I call Reggie and KD every morning. When is the album coming out? What is going on? What is - Yeah but calling us, that ain't got nothing to do with the hard work - [Trina] You are my assistant, correct? - Uh huh. - You know what an assistant is? An assistant is a mother and make sure everything the assisting, has it all. You don't walk around You walk around and correct and make sure it's done the right way. But you, superstar, you don't do that. You behind Trina back, had a meet with my business partner. - People always say, oh, Alvin is this, I gotta get out that, Alvin or Alvin that works for Trina. I have to build my own brand. - Oh, so, you not an assistant. You don't want to be an assistant? You wanna be your own man. You don't wanna do the (beep) music. You're Trina now. - No, I'm not gonna do the music but I'm gonna do my own business venture. - You need an assistant - I'm working on that, (laughing) - 'Cause the team is all over the place. You asking people all over the Let me explain something to you. I don't give a (beep) if your deal with Elle will not go through. Elle is my business partner. You have no deal with - Uh huh. - You met her through me. - What's the problem with me - Why would you do a business - Why I can't? - Why should you? Nobody knows you! Nobody gives a (beep) about with you or nothing. - Well, they call me back. - They called you because of me. You went and try to get like my eyeglasses. That's what you wanna - It's not about me knowing - You don't have no business You're behind my back, running around like a goddamn groupie, getting deals off of everybody. Nobody's giving you a (beep) deal. - I'm not a groupie darling. I'm gonna do the deal - We'll see. - Okay, well. - We'll see, hold on. Did you tell Elle you - I am the creative director. - Of what? I feel that way. - For Jullian? Do he 'Cause not for Trina baby! You are not the (beep) - Well I... - Get out! No! You're fired! You're fired! It's over, your fired! - I'll see you at the top. - Have a nice day! (dramatic music fades) (audience cheering) - I ain't gonna lie, shocked to see that you I cannot believe that. - That bitch crazy. - No, I'm not. No, I'm not. - I (beep) with you I cannot believe, that's - She got the right one. - I wanna talk to her. I don't want nobody else being in it. - I don't talk much boo. - You don't wanna talk? We Leave it alone! - What the (beep) you talking for then? Shut the (beep) up. - Then you shut the (beep) up! - No! - [Host] Okay. Well, Scrappy because he's enjoying his and you know what they say, So, we're just gonna continue So, Shay, why were you so that you were in the club with Scrappy? Why did that make you so mad? - Because I wasn't with Pleasure anymore and it's my business who - That's what you say. - I don't know what he told you. - That's what you said boo. - I didn't even know y'all - That's what you said. - We're friends, but you That's why you gonna - Okay. (audience gasps) - Trina, how did it feel, how did you feel seeing her attack Joy? - The problem I have with women, stop trying to check Check your (bleep). Don't check no woman about no man. That's a weak bitch move. - What I did was ask her - [Trina] Check the man You hit her, you was dead ass wrong. Stand up, be a woman. Tell that... - She was asking me. - No, but you hit her though! You hit her! It is what it is! (arguing) - She said, &quot;What's up?&quot; - It's an insecure woman about a man that don't wanna be with them. (Beep) is whack and lame. Period! Period! (audience applauding) - [Host] Is there a way we Do you feel that maybe you shouldn't have put your hands on her? Do you wanna apologize about - It's hard to apologize to &quot;Oh, I'm gonna do this and that to you.&quot; - Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah. Don't do that. Listen, man. - Nah, come on man. - That's Joy. That's Trina. That's Trick. - Relax. - You in Miami, just apologize. Try to squash that (beep). - The action happened. There's nothing I can do to take it back. I apologize for that, You don't gotta hear it, You can take it how you want it. - Let's clap that up. For the apology man. (audience clapping) - But I apologize. Like, I can't take that situation back. (upbeat music) - I thought it was great. This is my first time seeing - It was really, really, good. - That was amazing. I'm so proud of him. - You know what Trina, I'm really surprised that your here though because after Bobby's I was like... - What conversation? - He said that, you know, and or any mentoring on - What he said was that his cousin, that his cousin, Trina, don't support him. She don't come to nothing that he does. - It's not about supporting him, it's more so about this is in a different light. I always see Bobby drunk, turnt It's annoying. So, I can't even take you serious. And this whole podcast Bitch don't invite me, you guys talk, I'll see you guys later. - Oh my god. - I see y'all. I'm gonna go talk to him because I need to know what's going on. - Super Cindy. - Bobby got a lot of nerve. How dare he go on the podcast Just when I get on his side a little bit, he does something stupid like this. This reminds me exactly - How are you? - Hey! - You did a great job tonight. - Thank you. - I have a question though. What is this podcast you What's the problem? - Oh my God. - First, you should not be You know I hate that, and You know that because you &quot;Mr. Superstar.&quot; - I gotta speak my mind and keep it real. - I don't understand why to make your relevance. Keep my name of your mouth. You mother (beep) better not - I mean, you can never co-exist. - I don't want to co-exist with you. - Because you can't take the - I don't give a (beep) - You can't take the facts! - You're still not a (overlapping yelling) - How about that? - Bye! Thank you for coming. - You'll never be where I'm at baby. You beneath me, you'll always be! - Bye! - For the first time I saw as an artist, but then he and shows me for the millionth time that he doesn't know how to act. This is exactly why he And he never will unless he figures out how to stop acting so - What's up little boy? - T Double. What's up? I'm happy you came. Say hi to Joy. - Hey! I ain't here to talk to Joy. And even though me and Trina we got too much history to just fall out. Her new music, eh, sounds alright, but you got to get the fans They want T&amp;T, that's Trick and Trina. That's where it all started at. - I got some bones to pick with you. We gonna talk about it later. - Oh my God. - Lord have mercy. - Because you know me, - But we not gonna go - This is my party, we - I'm glad you putting because maybe we could finish our (beep). You know what my problem is? Studio is not interesting to me. So, I need some Patron, I need a stripper pole in there. - Okay. - Hello! Everybody! You should How about that? You want the strippers but you still got a wife lingering around. You should get rid of the wife and I'm going to make it my beautiful cousin gave that I needed for the divorce. Make sure you answer the door because somebody will be coming very soon to give you the papers. - No, no, no. Don't - They're coming. - Stop playing the (beep) game. I don't want to deal with it no more. I gave her the money to divorce you. So guess what, the divorce is final and you're going to have to bring me out 'cause it's time for you to go. You're (beep) Trick and nobody wanna deal with your bull (beep). - (laughing) - You're a (beep) jackass and you know it. - King ding-a-ling that is. - You should've got on the bus already. - This is just like typical Trina, sticking her nose in where it don't belong. And to believe that I actually And this how you treat the Daddy Dollars? I'm glad she gave Joy the money 'cause I wasn't gonna give her (beep). - You only want to do dirty. You know what, you (beep) crazy! Joy, divorce his ass now! - I am! - Trick can get me so angry sometime. Whether it's the T&amp;T album or his divorce he needs to stop making excuses. I'm sick of this. (dramatic cut) - What the hell happened? - So she stole my phone. We grown ass women. You don't steal, that's not cute. - Go get my (beep)! Go get my (beep)! - This (beep) is kicking - Go get my (beep)! - I walk away for two seconds and when I come back, pure chaos. Nikki came with that feisty ass attitude and she came ready to start drama. She needs to calm down first and foremost, especially when she's dealing with me. Hello, hello. - Trina, I don't know to talk to her. She is not your daughter, hoe! - Are you calm? - I don't do that fake (beep), Trina. Don't (beep) with me. You let them hoes jump me. You let them hoes (beep) jump me. - Who jumped you? Who jumped you? - (screaming) - Who jumped you? Because I was not here. You not gonna scream at my face. You gonna calm the (beep) down. 'Cause I'm not going to deal. 'Cause what you not gonna (yelling) - So you need to calm down. - What the (beep)? Get the - I'm not. Y'all can deal with her. - You don't (beep) care for real, bitch! - Now you not gonna call me no bitch 'cause I'm not one of these. I'm gonna whip your ass! (yelling) (dramatic music) (yelling) - You're not gonna call me no bitch! Let me tell you something! I'll whoop your mother - You better get my phone. (overlapping yelling) - Beat that hoe ass! (overlapping arguing) - Don't play with me. I got - Don't give a (beep) Don't come around here - Man, I don't believe this bitch. - What the (beep) with that hoe. - Is the T&amp;T project, officially a wrap. Is it not going forward? - It's definitely wrapped. We had an agreement, I do four. You do four. - Okay. - That's simple. I'm not gonna go by his rules. I'm not gonna do the songs Nah, we're gonna do new we're gonna collaborate together or it's not gonna happen. That's why it's not done. - I got my four records. The problem is the four they're pretty records, nobody wants this. - I'm a pretty ass girl, that's why. - But they don't want. - What you mean? - But they didn't fall in - Here, here! - They fell in love with with ratchet ass (audience gasps) - It's not 1998! - Our fans are not like today's fans. - Yes, they are. - Our fans are forever. If I'm featured on the record I got the hardest verse of that bitch. - Not on record me and you are on though. My verse is harder and that's why you mad. That's why you mad. Let's tell the truth. That's why you mad. - Time out! Time out! - I put out a mix tape! What did you did you Trick? - Time out! Time out! - You didn't put out no music. And I did your record for you. I did the record for you and And that's why you mad. So let's talk about it Say we want black, is all black. I did your record and I Let's talk about it. (audience cheering) - To be honest, to be honest. - I put out more music - You aint gonna say Miami (yelling) - I started all this (beep). - Where is your music? (beep) where is your music though? (beep) where is your music boy? (beep) You were doing music (audience gasps) Last time you was on a record Everybody that's right have heard Trina over the last 10 years. Have we heard Trick Daddy? Hell no! So, let's talk about it. (audience cheering) - If it wasn't for Trick Daddy there wouldn't be no (beep) Trina. (yelling) - Hey Trick, Trina's you've ever co-signed before this incident and you co-sign Nikki Natural. How do you feel about - I try to play captain save a hoe, no hoes get saved no more. (laughing) - Everybody here knows you It's a lot of (beep) these I keep it moving. - [Trick] I'm sorry, I try. - Don't play with me. - First of all, I say if you a female artist and you're trying to make music in Miami, you can't say nothing negative about Trina because she knows everybody. - Mm hm - I never seen this side of her. - You can't see when That's why you didn't see it. - Oh, ho, ho! Damn! Baby! She on a roll, baby. (audience clapping) - Now, Trina, you put the tour together to give up and coming So, how did it feel to get challenged by someone that you're - The tour was about these three ladies that are really artists that I've heard do music that If it wasn't for Trick, this woman would not have I'm not disrespectful. I've given respect to any and everybody that comes up under me. Be honest, you're beneath Don't ever (beep) get it twisted. So, when I gave your and hit that stage, you should have hit that stage and did what you're supposed to do because you said to me, Trick vouched for you. Trick vouch for one that's the baddest bitch, Let's be very clear. So, don't ever give besides because I'm not, And to this day I've been You won't make it two And I would never give any a chance to get under me. Nobody knows your music. You're not a artist, you're - I am an artist. I am an artist. - You got no songs on the charts. I don't respect no bitch - What? - Don't touch me my (beep). (overlapping yelling) I'm telling y'all don't touch me! - Oh my god. - You better get this (beep) (overlapping yelling) - Check on your kids bitch, not me. Get the (beep) outta here. - How are you a role model? Look at you, you look a mess. - [Bobby] No she don't look - You look a mess how - Get out of my (beep) face. Who are you talking to? Get your dusty ass outta here Weak ass bitch! - Bye! Bye ugly! Bye! Bye! Scary ass hoe! - Okay, you guys let's bring it down. Let's get through this. - (beep) is you talking You (beep) old men, you however many, You dusty, dirty, braced teeth ass bitch! Get the (beep) out of You a (beep). You (beep) men that are 90 years old to take care of your mother The (beep) is you talking about hoe! Don't let this lace wig I am from 15th Avenue, don't play with me. - We're gonna go to - Baby I'm glad I'm back (laughing) - What you got to say Nikki? No, I'm gonna hold my own down. What you got to say? - First of all, I never I never disrespected nobody on that stage. If you come for me, I'm gonna pop off. That's what it is, I stand 10 toes down. - No you dirty as (beep) - Trick and Trina are the (everyone gasping) - Girl, hold up, oooh! - Bitch you a swamp monkey! - Where's Kendall at? Let me go find him. - Uh-uh Trina, you can not Hold the door! Get security! Not on my door, no, no. - [Trina] Talking all that (beep)! - That ain't my mess back here! - Y'all can film the rest of the show by y'all (beep) selves, let's go. Show's over. - They're in there, they're in there. - Open the door! - Oh my god she's trying - (beep) ass hoe! Come out the (beep) door hoe.