[music] Since the 1950s Japanese industry had grown at a the transistor, and the "just in time" production Tokyo got skyscrapers, with more and "progress, progress, progress!". This was Sony, Toshiba, Suzuki, Subaru, NEC, Yamaha, Toshiba (twice!), Mazda, Sharp, and of course Nissan. they were going to make their next step Nissan's Figaro was in a sense a next evolution in was an exercise in looking back, of taking stock conscious effort by its designers to push against But the Figaro didn't come out of a vacuum. new design thinking. So, how popular was and how has it found a new home on the other side [music] Nissan had gone from Japanese sales to global the 1970s that saw the largest growth. They had a but one area they were lacking was a small They were a great second car, with space for in Japan with its narrow city roads and tight that had already entered this market such as the the small, practical car that customers wanted. you live in Europe you know exactly what the car the Micra. Nissan produced 5 generations ending in 2023. For many it was their first But before the first Micra launched, Nissan's they could make some other body shapes to help cutting-edge technology, the team decided to comfort and gentleness", the polar opposite of Not only did the styling team look to different ways to go about it. There was what already doing - in house designs. "Plan B1" was "Plan B2" was a variation of Plan B1, and "Plan C" something that Nissan would do in the 1990s. designed by Nissan stylist Yoshiro a stylist from the fashion industry with no couldn't drive! But this was precisely the Plan B1 led the car to be named the Nissan Be-1. Be-1 was a rounded-off notchback, that is it had and that's the official Big Car definition of a coupe just to be difficult. The Be-1 came with a and the rear lights were an interesting influence for the 1995 Fiat Brava. with production capped at 10,000. But demand took to implement a lottery to choose who would who missed out were buying the car on the open With all this popularity, Nissan were of two follow-ups. The first was the Pao, styled by with retro-styling, the Pao went all in; it had Giardiniera both on the outside with its round new retro-styled minimalist interior. Once again it might look like the Pao was a hatchback, but it were influenced by the Citroen 2CV, and the But rather than putting the Pao in 1950s inspired a prehistoric hellscape with pterodactyls was going to hatch from that giant egg?!? Nissan's customers loving the car though. This time the then produce as many as were ordered during of which 31,000 turned into final deliveries. Nissan's styling department certainly vehicle that launched the same year as escargot, get it? was a snail-like van clearly a van that was also nicknamed the "snail". playful snail logo on the wheelcaps. you needed to transport a baby giraffe to with a Citroenesque 1-spoke steering wheel. There and a small sitting area behind, along with a It was still based on the first generation Micra, but the S-Cargo used a 1.5L from the Nissan different and it was a van, it's a fair bet The Be-1, Pao and S-Cargo had been designed by which was colloquially known as the "Pike because of its sharp, cutting-edge designs. So, The quirky S-Cargo wasn't as popular as previous Overall, around 10,600 were produced. of cars was a new direction for the car industry. and this type of boutique manufacturing would For the next car, the team had been thinking of canvas rooves, the saloon became a convertible. Nissan stylist, Shoji Takahashi, who would the previous cars. By 1988 there were 10 1/4 to two. The winning design that continued full scale clay. The car wasn't a full open top [music] The car was launched as the Nissan Figaro at the the future". The canvas roof had evolved into The public were once again wowed by this new Nissan referred to it as a coupe like they harkened back to the 1935 Datsun Roadster, such as lots of chrome, and a two-tone exterior. Mozart opera "The Marriage of Figaro", and not Rhapsody or indeed the Brotherhood [music] You can't unsee that! the Figaro was nostalgia on steroids. Nissan and headrests that stowed away, so they could practical as seats with whiplash protection are toggle switches and white dials with black toggle switches had been phased out on cars in the seems they were still OK in Japan in the 1990s. something that looked like a small Daimler, and about the Figaro. But despite the traditional like a radio/cassette and automatic all around the car was a 1930s art deco-style the door handles and the electric window switches. it was nothing compared to the Figaro. Again, who could get one. The waiting list for although some of these orders may have been traded hands for much more than the asking years old. They craved cars from their youth in the 1950s in Japan and badged as an Isuzu. a concern. Without a roof the chassis needed panels and chrome-looking plastic bumpers 175kg or 386lb heavier than a barebones Micra. kindly too - and I know from experience. I drove France loaded down with four people and luggage. So, Nissan used a 1.0L turbocharged engine taking 75hp (56kW)! With a three speed automatic making For a car so loved, it was perhaps appropriate day 1991. The car had changed a little the inclusion of two boots - a top one to store tyre and not much else. As Jonny Smith said about the Figaro is it's basically got While the Figaro was officially a four seater, so instead of trying to store it was probably better to use the back seat. and two tone paintwork remained. The team added like it had period correct but very tiny white Figaro badges using the same art deco flower almost nowhere to be seen. Customers could order season - Emerald Green for spring, Pale Aqua Grey for winter. The most popular was blue winter Inside most of the original design was carried The entertainment system got a very modern could be enjoyed with the latest beats, but the first in car CD players and it wasn't At launch Nissan said they'd only make produce a small amount every week this and again Nissan used its lottery system to pick allow those lucky owners "to enjoy a delicate and the car "intended to satisfy a zestful desire to live up to, but when customers got to But don't just take their word for it, here's Hi! I'm Alec from the YouTube channel "Technology for about 5 years now. I don't remember when I did it lodged in my brain as something unique another retro inspired car that isn't just retro car from the upholstery to the switch gear to something from the 60s maybe late 50s. Nissan is and unless you're looking in very specific And that's what I love about this car. It's just One of my favorite things about driving it in the who sees it and doesn't know it's a Figaro makes me "What is that? What year is it?". And I get to delightful, it tickles me to this day. after quite a lot of preventative maintenance by my friend perfect. It starts up every time, other than replaced it. But it runs perfectly, it drives the best parts about it. It looks like it could a Japanese economy car from the early 90s, and And of course being a convertible it's It's actually great to drive in the winter But I don't drive it in the winter because So, it's actually got some rust I still need to So, for now I just enjoy it in the warm that special. It's got plenty of power. It's is significant) it will get out of its own way its three speed automatic. I don't like taking For the most part I just putter around town. in ways that no other car I've driven is. I don't drivetrain out of the Micra but that does give it The one thing I don't like about the Figaro but that it has absolutely no cargo room to speak of. to use and so basically you're limited to the I don't know how anybody could be back there if seat if you don't have a passenger. So really, It's barely any more practical than a motorcycle take it to work with me, and I do love taking it One of my favorite features of this car is the warning lights this car has and I think But I don't see a lot of people mention this is delightful. It's really subtle. It's decoration. But they are functionally your every time I see. I think that's amazing. If you want a bit of angst and torment to go with your Figaro, there was "The Figaro Story", Tokyo and New York. This was less Hollywood action so if that's your sort of thing and you like the then may I recommend a film franchise you might I'm not sure you'll see it include a Nissan Production of the Figaro ended in 1992 after over last Pike car, but fashion stylist turned Nissan - the 1994 Nissan Rasheen. This was what different to his previous cars in that it was didn't have the design flourishes of the Figaro, out of your car every day, this was the car for the Rasheen was a regular production car Car companies looked at the success of the Figaro, create their own retro-themed cars. This led to There was also the Toyota WiLL cars that were cars never captured the public's imagination like thing came full circle when Fiat reworked Nissan didn't go back to the retro style of the with cars like the Nissan Cube in the late 1990s, manufacturer decided to take the 1950s theme and again using the Micra platform; styled to look with the second generation model in 2005. It's launched in 2023 is based on the Toyota Yaris. cars in Japan. Maintenance and taxes mean there's that drive on the left like New Zealand. So, to off load them, and Japanese Figaro owners falling in love with the faux-European retro car of imports turned into a flood as thousands of Where Japanese men fell in love with the car, it's It helps that both countries drive on the left, that hasn't stopped some particularly adventurous other side of the car. It also helps that there's for old running gear and engines to keep Figaros Japanese FM frequencies go from 76 to just 90MHz. with DAB+ and Bluetooth. So, no more Nissan were proud to say that those 30 years later Figaro owners are trying 1991 was still a time of Japanese optimism. a world in 2015 that was dominated by everything take over the world. But the 1990s would bring its money on luxury car projects like Infiniti. being rescued by Renault. So, in a way the Figaro bristling with optimism for the and Japan were arguably at their greatest. carmaker could once more try Nissan's "boutique" take a concept to production. That's effectively deposits they took on the back of the concept But would a car like the Figaro be profitable but it sold for Y=1,870,000. That sounds a lot, PS21,000 ($15k-$28k USD, EUR13k-EUR25k, $21k-$41k UK inflation. But no matter whether you there's not a lot of wiggle room in that with custom panels and interior that will need before it can go on sale. You may be able to but in a car industry with tight margins it's and it may well be that Nissan didn't make New automated production lines can produce so maybe a low volume version could be slipped And don't underestimate the value of the publicity stand out. It certainly did for Nissan in the same in the UK in the 21st century. maybe we'll get more classic cars like the Figaro. It was a classic car then, and it is now. A big thanks to Alec from Technology Connections for sharing his perspective on this fascinating If for some reason you're not yet subscribed to me... If you've ever wondered if you can synchronise indicators over multiple cars, video about just that on the right. Thanks for