China is one of the world's most fascinating and complicated countries, and its cities seem to get bigger every year. Considered a rural society just a few decades ago, China today is home to the world's largest urban population. I traveled to China independently for more than a decade, And in this video I will show you some of the most striking From the ancient centers of Beijing and Xian, to the modern megacities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou. We visit the freezing Winter festivals of Harbin and the popular Summer holiday beaches of coastal Qingdao. From the streets of fusion cities like Hong Kong and Macau, located on the 'Rooftop of the World'. We also take a look at the now historic alleys of Kashgar, and the empty streets of Ordos, China's best known 'ghost town'. And we explore the expanding urban centers along the Yangtze river, all the way to the fast paced metropolis of Shanghai. So join me on this journey through urban China. We begin our travels in Shanghai, one of China's most Its iconic skyline has become a symbol of the country's and provides a glimpse into the many changes China has undergone. While it's a lot of glitz, glamour, and commerce here, Shanghai also has some beautiful historic architecture, Most travelers start their trip to Shanghai on the Bund, a waterfront promenade lined with former Western Many of these buildings are now used as restaurants, and are a stunning contrast with the modern skyline of Pudong, Most farmland only 3 decades ago, this spectacle of skyscrapers Some of the buildings have observation decks, For those interested in China's economic story, to the city's water port, the largest container terminal in the world. Shanghai is a city of commerce, which is best seen a pedestrian only shopping street in the heart of the city. If the crowds become overwhelming, the nearby Jing'An temple where you can join a Buddhist ceremony, or simply escape More traditional neighborhoods still exist, but you Walking some of the narrow alleyways of this old Shanghai and it's easy to get lost both in time and place. This authentic Shanghai, however, is disappearing fast, and replaced by apartment towers and shopping malls. Whatever you think of it, this is the story of Shanghai, And who dares to guess what it will look like in a few decades? After Shanghai, we travel all the way North of China, a city of over 5 million people, with a strong historic Russian influence. While it's a good place to visit all year, things really get busy in Winter, when millions of people come to see the famous Thousands of workers prepare for many weeks in building temples, sculptures and palaces, all made from ice and snow. Watching them at work may be as impressive as the festival itself. Other than admiring the craftsmanship and artwork, And as you walk around the festival grounds, you will see people While spectacular during the day, my favorite time to visit At twilight, the ice sculptures are lit up with beautiful neon lights, Temperatures also drop dramatically, so be sure to wear enough layers. We travel onwards to Beijing, the nation's capital. Beijing has a history that goes back more than 3,000 years. It's the polical center of China, but also brims with culture and creativity. A good place to start exploring the city is Tiananmen Square, where Mao Zedong proclaimed the People's Republic of China, in 1949, an event that changed the course of the country drastically. Since then, Tiananmen has been used for celebrations and parades, but was also the epicenter of a suppressed student protest in 1989. These days, the square is a hotspot for Chinese tourists, Across from Tiananmen lies the Forbidden City, one of the Off limits for 500 years, hence its name, this is the largest and Two dynasties of Emperors lived here, who only left the Other landmarks in Beijing include the Summer Palace, a beautiful complex of religious buildings in the South of the city. Watching some of the daily life in the parks, narrow alleyways in traditional neighborhoods, is one of You might come across people playing 'jianzi', best described or people playing 'mahjong', the classic Chinese tile game. Don't leave the city without tasting, or at least smelling, Peking Duck, and watching a show of Beijing opera. Beijing also had a modern face, which you will meet Head to Wangfujing, to get a sense of the commercial face of Beijing, or take a look at the impressive stadiums, inside A must do when in Beijing, is visit the Great Wall, a series of fortifications that were built along the borders of These stretches were linked when China was unified in the Qing Dynasty, more than 2,000 years ago, and became known as the Great Wall of China. Now, the people you see climbing the Wall here can actually not watch this video. Their internet access is restricted by the Chinese government, something that is often referred to as the 'Great Firewall of China'. Many foreign websites and apps are blocked, including Facebook, Instagram, Google, and also Youtube. Aside from the impact on Chinese society, this can also be very inconvenient for travelers, something I experienced first hand. Gladly, there is a service called VPN, meaning Virtual Private Network, that lets you access these sites safely. Which brings me to the sponsor for this video, Surfshark. With a Surfshark VPN, you can connect to all your favorite sites, no matter where you are in the world. Simply open the app, select one of the many servers, and start watching or reading your favorite content. I always turn on VPN when using public Wifi, also outside China, to make sure my passwords and personal details are secure. All information sent over Surfshark is encrypted, protecting you from the many digital hazards we face today. With a VPN you are virtually placing your device in a different country, which can also come in handy if you want to watch Netflix or other shows that are region specific. If all this sounds interesting, then Surfshark has a great offer for you, with 3 months extra for free and 83% off. Simply scan the QR code or click the link in the description, and use my promocode HOFFER. And, good to know, it has a 30 day money back guarantee. Now, let's continue our journey through urban China. By some accounts the largest municipality in China, Chongqing is Located on the mighty Yangtze river, it has become an attracting people from around the region and beyond to work and live. A traveler's first impression of Chongqing can be overwhelming, as the city is built on steep mountains and hills, Gladly, a cable car spanning the Yangtze, and a light-railway line, Nevertheless, visitors should be prepared to climb a lot of stairs. Chongqing lacks the attractions that other cities have, but it's a fascinating place While China used to be a country of farmers, it is quickly and in Chongqing you'll stumble on a constrasting image Old neighborhoods need to make way for shopping malls, destroying one way of life, trying to create another. We continue our journey to Lhasa, the spiritual heartland of Tibet, While there are other ways to reach Lhasa, I found the most traveling on the highest railway line in the world, over 5,000 meters at some stretches. Traversing the rugged, barren Tibetan landscapes proved a beautiful introduction The first views of the magnificent Potala Palace are unforgettable. This is the historical seat of the Tibetan government, the spiritual leader of the Tibetan people, who is currently Tibet has had a tumultuous history, dating back to the 7th century, and has known periods of independence and occupation, More recently, in 1950, it was invaded by Communist China, Much has been written about the Tibetan issue, and it's a good idea And note that foreign travelers can only visit Tibet as part of a group tour. A good way to start exploring Lhasa is by joining pilgrims as they walk around the Potala Palace turning prayer wheels Kora is a combination of pilgrimage and meditative practices in Tibetan Buddhism. It's also possible to climb the Potala Palace, but make sure to take your time, as Lhasa is located at an altitude of over 3,600 meters. Another spot not to miss is the Sera Monastery, one of the largest in Tibet, Come here for the daily debating session, when monks discuss My favorite area in Lhasa is called Barkhor, essentially the Countless pilgrims walk around the Jokhang temple, a ritual meant to purify negative thoughts and bad karma. Some prostrate all the way from their villages to Lhasa, a journey that can After Lhasa, we travel to Central China, to visit Xian, located in a region that was at the heart of early Chinese civilization. Known as Chang'an in the older days, it was at the center of several dynasties, and flourished as the beginning and end of the historic Silk Road. Before its demise in the 10th century, this was a place where Chinese culture While Xian today is mostly a modern city, reminders of its history The City Walls, although constructed in the 14th century, It's almost hard to imagine that the walls of ancient Chang'an One of my favorite spots in Xian is the Muslim neighborhood, Although the area has undergone many changes, and parts are now it's still a good place to wander around, meet the people, Xian's most famous place, however, lies outside the city. The magnificent Terracotta Army is located around 40 kilometers of downtown Xian, and is one of China's most impressive historic sites. The Army, consisting of thousands of life size warriors, chariots, and others, It was built underground, around the tomb of the Emperor, and was only discovered in 1974 by local farmers. We continue our travels to Ordos, a somewhat surreal city in the North of China. The reason for coming here was to see one of the country's best known 'ghost towns'. In the Chinese context, these are cities or neighborhoods that are The reason these ghost towns exist is simply put for the sake of economic growth. Many Chinese analysts would say they are investments while global experts argue they are an example of a growing Walking the largely deserted streets, past lavish, but empty apertment buildings, And as I traveled to other parts of China, such as here in Shenfu, I couldn't help but wonder what these places would look like in a few decades. Our next destination lies in far Western China, in the now Kashgar is, or was, a city like no other. Surrounded by mountains and deserts, it is closer to Baghdad than Beijing, and its original inhabitants, the Uyghurs, are closely linked It was an important stop on the ancient Silk Road, and has been at the Please note that I visited Kashgar in 2010, and many things have changed since then. Before being demolished and rebuilt, Kashgar's old town was to get a sense of the traditions and customs of the Uyghur people. This was where craftsmen had been working for generations, creating The narrow alleyways in these remaining pockets of old town and I could spend hours, if not days, here just soaking up the atmosphere. And every Sunday, traders from around Kashgar gathered at a massive Thousands of goats, cows, horses, donkeys, and other animals accompanied by farmers, nomads and shepherds. It was a fascinating sight, that could easily be the set of a movie. These traditional scenes, however, were disappearing quickly, after the Chinese government made Kashgar, and the entire province of In recent years, things escalated further, with around a million, in what the Chinese government calls 're-education camps'. This process has been condemned globally, and the treatment of the Uyghurs, in and out of these camps, by the UN and other international organizations. We can only hope that the situation in this region will somehow improve in the future. After Kashgar, we travel back to Eastern China, to visit Qingdao, Set on the shores of the Yellow Sea, with rolling green hills as Many Chinese tourists come here to visit the beaches, But it was the German architecture that caught my eye when I first arrived here. German naval officers invaded Qingdao in the late 19th century, and left their mark on the city, building railway lines, churches, Tsingtao is now one of China's largest beer producers. Perhaps the most striking building is Saint Michael's Catholic church. The church has a beautiful interior but equally interesting is Soon to be married brides and grooms, wearing Western style The wedding industry is booming in China, with a rising middle class able to Like many cities in China, Qingdao is also changing rapidly, Here you can see everything from disappearing neighborhoods Qingdao's modern city center feels entirely different. It's only a short taxi or subway ride away from the old town, but I suggest using the waterfront promenade where you can We follow the coastline all the way South, to visit Hong Kong, seen by many as the perfect fusion between East and West, It's a modern metropolis, but also a cultural powerhouse. It's easy to fall in love with Hong Kong at first sight, but for many this is only where the story begins. The city was part of Britain for almost a century, the result of negotiations with the Chinese empire, Over the years, with ups and downs, the people of Hong Kong managed Some of these freedoms, however, have come under pressure, after the city was handed back to China in 1997. Recently, the city has seen massive protest, with people One of the best ways to start exploring Hong Kong, is to from where you can admire the jaw-dropping urban landscape of the city. You can reach the Peak by taxi or on a steep hike, but most travelers use the historic Victoria Peak Tram, Another way to appreciate the city's skyline is to sail the For just a few Hong Kong dollars, this is probably Hong Kong is a breeze to get around, and boasts a very efficient double deck trams, and even helicopters for those who can afford it. For some travelers, Hong Kong is a shopper's paradise. And sometimes it feels like the city is one giant shopping mall, Others come here for the Cantonese food, which is some of the best in Asia. From luxurious restaurants to street food markets and local eateries, For a different side of Hong Kong, head to some of the tranquil islands, or visit the Big Buddha statue, located in a major Buddhist But it's the streets of Kowloon district and beyond, This is the cultural heartland of the city, where traditional It feels overwhelming in some parts, yet surprisingly peaceful in others. Visit one of the many temples, browse some of the markets, or simply wander around and be surprised by this magnificent city. A stone's throw away from Hong Kong lies Macau, a former Its skyline is dominated by some of the world's largest casinos, and parts of the city have turned into massive entertainment centers. The reason for its popularity is simple, it's the only place But Macau also has a different face, with a Portuguese influence Even though you'll share the streets with a lot of tourists, Bordering Hong Kong on the North, Shenzhen is one of China's A small fishing village merely 40 years ago, Shenzhen has grown It attracts businesspeople, migrant workers, and investors all chasing the 'Chinese economic dream'. Shenzhen became a so called 'Special Economic Zone', who led a series of market economy reforms, Since then, Shenzhen has become China's largest electronics manufacturing For travelers, Shenzhen may not offer a lot of sights. But there are plenty of parks, shopping centers, and a surprising In general, I found Shenzhen a young and dynamic place where you can get a sense While you can get around China in numerous ways, the high-speed especially when you travel between larger cities. Because of their size, the train stations can sometimes feel intimidating We travel back to Central China, to visit Wuhan, a city that will forever be linked to the global pandemic, I visited Wuhan twice before this all started, and met a sprawling city, with massive bridges spanning the Yangtze river, busy shopping streets, Wuhan is actually a combination of three formerly independent cities, Its history is often compared to Shanghai, with its concession era buildings One of the most iconic buildings here is the Yellow Crane Tower, and also the historic Wuhan Yangte River bridge. This double-deck road and rail bridge was the first modern bridge to We finish this journey through urban China in Guangzhou, It's a center of Cantonese culture and has grown into a major While skyscrapers dominate the skyline, Guangzhou also has a Downtown Guangzhou is filled with modern office towers, shopping malls, But as you make your way through town, you'll also meet The pedestrian only Shamian island, for instance, is filled with Also impressive in the Sacred Heart cathedral, while the nearby riverside promenade is perfect for an evening stroll. And in the suburbs, I found this traditional South Chinese garden, called Baomo, But in the evenings, when the neon lights go on, Guangzhou is And that concludes my journey through urban China. I realize I have only scratched the surface, and you could spend months, Yet I still hope this video gave you some travel ideas, or at least provided a glimpse into these captivating but complicated cities. Thanks for watching this video, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely.