Hello World. If you've ever been to Japan or You might have come across gates like these. They come in all shapes and sizes, but what are they? They're torii, which are the entrances to jinja and jinja are sacred spaces and the seats of kami. OK, so those are three new terms to learn. Luckily, our guide today, David Chart happens to write just a little bit about And before you start furiously typing in the comments about why I chose to interview some Chato-san is actually a naturalized Japanese, works as the English translator for Jinja Honcho, the Association of Shinto Shrines, and writes extensively about Shinto So like I said, he knows a little bit. OK, so, the torii is the gates that and for the rest, well, why don't we go inside and have a look around. That'll make it easier. Sure, I think one question that viewers might have is can anyone off the street just walk on in? Yeah, you don't need an appointment to go and visit a jinja and you can just go in as you're going past. OK, let's go! three steps later So, the torii marks the outer boundary of the sacred space. So this is a good place to straighten Most people bow slightly before It's a natural way to express respect for the kami. OK, so now we're in the sacred space, but I've noticed that inside of a torii, there's a wide variety of settings. Like for example at one, they have a playground where kids are playing. And another one seems to be popular with office space eating like onigiri. Right, inside the sacred space you but playing and eating are not Leaving litter would be, and some larger jinja ask you not If you're at the jinja to pay respects to the kami, You follow the sacred path, sando in Japanese, The custom is to walk along one side, Some people say that's because the center I've actually made a video about how in Japan, just like when you're driving, When you're at a jinja, does that same general rule apply? No, not really. If the jinja's not really busy, it doesn't If the jinja is busy, you just follow the flow of people. So... no, no real rule about it. But, as you can see here, the handrail is at the center of the stairs, which makes it natural to walk on one side or the other. So one thing that seems to be a common What's up with that? It's true. A lot of jinja are built on higher ground. I think it's to do with the separation of the kami So a lot of jinja do have a flight Fortunately these days, almost all jinja At this one, you can go along the road over there, Hmm... OK, that's good to know. And right here, we're actually at a water station. So, what's up with this water station? This is for purifying ourselves. So purification, called &quot;oharai&quot; or &quot;misogi&quot;, And you're definitely supposed to purify yourself In fact, some priests have told me, that if you don't purify yourself, It's like taking your shoes off before you go into a Japanese home. Now, I wouldn't like to say that taking your shoes off but they're definitely related. So, to purify yourself, you take Fill it with water. Pour a little over your left hand to rinse it. Over your right hand... Pour a bit into your left hand. Rinse your mouth. Then, rinse your left hand again. And use the remaining water to rinse the ladle, That's interesting, because, you did it really nicely. I've noticed that not everyone does it Right, the official way to do it is a little bit complicated, and not all the Japanese people remember it. As long as your rinse both hands and your mouth, that's good enough to keep the priests happy. - So, another torii, so I normally bow again. And you don't have to do that if there's OK, that's good to know, because I've and I always thought, like do you have to bow at each one? - That would be a lot of bowing. Um... OK, we've washed up, what do we do next? Well, next, we go to the prayer hall, to pay our respects to the kami. OK. So, people normally pay their respects where there's a box for offerings You shake the rope to ring the bell, It really doesn't matter which order you do that in. So, my daughter and I, we used to watch this anime Which means, as you know, stray kami. So instead of a stray cat, it's a kami without a home. And one of his things, was that he would grant any wish. [phone ringing] Hello! Thank you for calling! Fast, affordable, and reliable! But even though he was desperate for cash, he would do it all for a 5 yen coin. You're a god, right? Help me! Money. You charge money?! It'll cost ya this much. 50,000?! 500,000?! I'm a god, remember?! And everyone knows you're Your wish... ... has been heard loud and clear! Right. 5 yen is a really popular offering at a jinja, because the Japanese for 5 yen, goen, sounds exactly like the Japanese So it gives you a good link to the kami. The priests really don't mind what you offer, 1 yen coins, because they're OK, so that sounds a bit different than because I remember their offerings being This is largely symbolic. Obviously the priests But if you're going to make a larger offering, you'd usually receive an omamori, or just The money that you put into the box... ... is symoblic. It's another form of purification. Ringing the bell is the same. They're both ways of further purifying yourself Let's pay our respects. Up to the bell rope. Ring the bell. Put the money into the offering box. Bow twice. Clap twice. Bow once. And we're done. We should leave this way, so that we don't And going this way takes us to the jinja office, Omamori are amulets. They're a way of taking part of the power of You make an offering of a few hundred yen, a few dollars, Now there are a lot of different kinds of For example, this one is for safe child birth. This one is for pets. This one's for work. And all the different types of omamori So, you make the offering, receive your omamori, and OK. So you taught me a lot about jinja, but what about kami? Ah, now that's a big question. We should probably go and sit down to talk about that. finding a place to sit Well, it's a big question, but actually, it's a lot less important Shinto is much more about what you This is why the priests really care that you use the correct etiquette when you That's why we introduced the etiquette in so much detail. They really don't care very much about what you believe. They will welcome people of any religion Now, a devout Christian might not want to pay their respects But the priests leave that up to the individual. Now, of course, people do believe things about the kami. For example, there are said to be 8 million of them. Wow! It turns out there are a lot of kami. But 8 million? That's not an exact number. Nobody thinks It just means a large number, a fortunate number, of kami. And if we look at one of the most popular definitions &quot;Kami&quot; refers first of all to those kami and to spirits enshrined at jinja, but also to human beings, and animals, birds, and plants, or seas, mountains, and similar that are unusual This does not just mean the venerable, but also includes things that are remarkable All these things are called &quot;kami&quot;. That definition is from Moto'ori Norinaga, a scholar who lived about two hundred years ago. And on that definition, Mt Fuji, the and there are some practitioners of Shinto, and some Obviously, in this sense at least some kami exist. Similarly, remarkable people are kami, while still being human. There are people today who think that the Tenno, but they also think that he is a human being, If we approach things this way, then &quot;kami&quot; is more It is a feature that things of many kinds can have, However, the practice of Shinto treats kami as invisible These spirits might be the spirits of natural things, They can also be spirits of other types. There is a jinja in Nara, Tamakazura Jinja, where the kami is a fictional character from the Tale of Genji, a novel written about a thousand years ago. OK, we went pretty deep there. Before speaking with you, I never realized Now, I think onsen are quite spectacular. Are they kami? Yes, they are. Onsen, hot springs, that's what onsen means. They're out of the ordinary run of springs People like them, so they're a blessing, yes, they're kami. If you take the first view, then the spring itself, is a kami. If you take the second view, then there You probably noticed when you've been have a continuous flow of hot water through them. The springs comes out into the pool and then flows out again. But even so, you're expected to wash And even when there's nowhere to actually wash, you're expected to rinse yourself off with water from the spring before you get in. And, now I'm not sure about this, but I think that may be a sign of purifying yourself before you interact with the kami. It's a way of showing respect to OK, so as long as you wash yourself first That's right. OK, note taken. Um, but to get serious again. From your explanation, the definition of kami it doesn't really seem like what I think of as a god. Right. God is a terrible translation of kami, Even if you use spirit, that's a bit too much of the So, I just don't translate the word. - Is there anything that people agree about? People agree that you should treat the kami with respect. So, if you visit a jinja, you should pay your respects to the kami first, before you It shows respect for both the kami and the priests, and the priests at least, definitely notice. OK, so when I was a kid, I used to go to church on most Sundays, that I remember. Do people in Japan visit jinja regularly? Very few people go that often. But about 70% of the population visit Hatsumode, the first visit to a jinja or Buddhist Millions of people line up at jinja across the country ready to pay their respects, draw a fortune, and maybe receive Meiji Jingu, in Tokyo, is visited by about three million people Even a local jinja in an urban area, can expect well over ten thousand. Out in rural areas, every single person Most people also take their children to a and at the ages of three, five, and seven for Shichigosan. I've actually done this with my children. Shichigosan is formally a prayer of thanks and a request for their healthy growth in the future. In practice, it is often a family celebration, with the Traditionally, it happened on November 15th, when the whole family has time off work, any time from late October to early December. If you visit a jinja at those times, you have a very People also go to attend the regular Strictly speaking, a matsuri is any ceremony But for most people, it means the big event and definitely food stands. Remember I said that eating and playing were Well, a lot of that goes on at matsuri. A few matsuri are enormous, The Gion Matsuri in Kyoto, for example, and includes multiple parades, and is listed Most local matsuri happen on a single day, but many of them are recognised as being culturally The sacred dances at Shirahata Hachiman Daijin, are registered as important folk customs People also go to jinja with particular requests. They might just make the requests while paying or they might ask the priests for a more formal prayer, which is conducted inside the prayer hall. For those you normally need to offer at least 5,000 yen. So where are we now? Well, different jinja have reputations And right now, we're at Yushima Tenjin, in Tokyo. This is a Tenjin jinja, and it's very Tenjin jinja are all famous for academic success, but this one is particularly famous because the most famous university in Japan. Every year many people, particularly teenagers, Particularly entrance examinations. They have lots, and lots, and lots of study amulets, including little packs of pencils that you Upon learning this, I took it upon myself to buy an ema, which is a wooden plaque you can write wishes on. Using my excellent penmanship, I crafted Nihongo ga jozu ni narimasu yo ni. I wish to get better at Japanese. Okay! There you go! After learning about all the ways that Shinto is it fair to say that Japanese are religious? No, we wouldn't say that. Only 3% of Japanese claim to be Shinto. Only 36% claim to have any religion at all, It's kind of the opposite of the U.K., where about 70% of In Japan, about 3% say they're Shinto How does that work? So many Japanese people going to jinja, yet so few stating that they are Shinto? Most people don't think about the activities It's just part of Japanese culture. In that way it's quite similar to say, You have to do the right sort of things, but not necessarily a religion. Even Shinto priests are often quite reluctant Yeah, I think Westerners would have a hard time and praying for benefits, is not religious. It's inscrutable. Now obviously, in some senses, Shinto is a religion, but it's not very similar to the way that It's not an identity. It's something you do, it's not something you are. If you're a Shinto priest, then you But even then, you might also follow another It just doesn't work the same way as it does in the West. Oh, OK. So then that's something that's it's judging me based on my actions, not on my faith. It's nice to know that people, no matter Yes, Shinto is possibly the most open and welcoming Priests at all jinja would be delighted to see foreigners Especially if they have that 5 yen coin. Ah, quite. OK. I didn't screw that up after all. - OK, and then it's just my... plug for you, essentially. - Yes. Yes, gotta get, gotta get that right. Don't I'd like to give a special thanks to David Chart for Now he also writes for his own website, called Mimusubi. It's an excellent resource in English about Shinto. So if you're interested in Shinto, Thanks for watching, see you next time, bye! Tourist snapshots at jinja are fine. However, you should YouTube, which we received thanks to: Shirahata Hachiman Daijin At Yushima Tenjin, petting the cow (nade-ushi) OK, and then I'll be a really pain in the Oh, proper direction. Oh, kawaii!