Welcome to my channel. How to care for orchids in Autumn? What kind of care is needed to make orchids that enter autumn flowerless bloom again ? I will give you detailed information about this. You must give natural fertilizers, that is, nutritional fertilizers, at regular intervals, especially to the orchids you keep at home . You can either make these yourself at home or buy them ready-made, I make them at home. I will use rice for today's fertilizer. and we will turn two different fertilizers into one fertilizer with you today. Let's move on to the first method. Thanks to the vitamins it contains, rice helps the leaves and roots of orchids to revitalize and grow healthy. All I need is a tablespoon of rice. Look, I'm going to put as much water on it as possible. You can also use the unsalted rice water you prepared for rice . I'll mix it up a bit and let it sit for 30 minutes. Let's move on to the second method. For method 2, I will use aloe vera gel. Aloe Vera plant is a very useful plant that we use in orchid care. You can give Aloe Vera juice while making fertilizer not only for orchids but also for all your flowers at home. Look, there is such a yellow water inside. After the yellow water flows, I cut it into small slices. In the second method, to benefit from Alo Vera juice, I put the leaves that I sliced into small pieces into a food processor. I poured 200 ml of water on it. Now I put it in the blender. If you have watched my video up to this point and liked it, you can immediately press the like button and if you are not subscribed to my channel, you can subscribe to support me and turn on the ringtone to receive notifications early. Yes, I put it through the food processor and turned it into puree. What you need to pay attention to here is filtering. Because the roots of the aloe vera leaves should not stick. I will only use the water. Yes, first, I filter the rice water that I had left for 30 minutes before and put it in a glass jug. If you look closely, I added 500 L of rice water for measurement . I will put the Alo Vera juice I prepared on 500 L of rice water . Aloe Vera juice is approximately 300 mL. That is, I put 300 ml of Aloe Vera juice into 500 ml of rice water. Yes, we first look at the roots before giving water or vitamins to the orchids. If the root color of the orchid is white or gray like this, it means it needs water. If the root color of the orchid is green like this, it does not need water. If you water the roots while they are green , the roots will rot, the leaves will turn yellow, and the flowers will wilt because you overwater the orchid . So be sure to check the roots before watering. Yes, now I combine the rice water and aloe vera juice I prepared for each pot and add 6 tablespoons of this mixture to each pot. Never give such liquid plant foods too often or too much. 6 tablespoons per pot is ideal. And it is enough to give this mixture once a month. Especially in autumn , such mixtures encourage flowerless orchids to grow flower branches quickly . You can give such mixtures not only to flowerless orchids, but also to your flowering orchids. Because flowering orchids also need vitamins. As you can see, the root color changed after waiting in the water for a while . gray roots gradually turning green. From here we see how the water need is met from the root color. Definitely always water orchids by looking at the roots. I will share the progress of liquid plant nutrients on Orchids. The liquid plant nutrients we provide enable orchids to grow new and healthy roots . It also encourages the emergence of new flower branches. One last tip for you. If you watched my video before and liked it, immediately press the like button and if you are not subscribed to my channel, I would be very happy if you subscribe to support me. You can make plenty of comments and ask questions in the comments section. This abundant flowering of orchids is the result of the liquid plant nutrients we provide at regular intervals. And especially in the autumn , you need to position the orchids on a window sill that receives plenty of light . If orchids do not receive enough light in autumn , it will be very difficult to produce flower branches. The high number of flowers and buds in our orchids is directly proportional to the morning or afternoon sun and plenty of light that the orchid receives for a short time in winter . That's why you definitely need to pay attention to this . I hope this video was useful for you. Thank you for watching. Goodbye and stay healthy.