Translator: Viviane P. A few years ago, I began to observe that made me a bit uncomfortable. And that was that from the moment my life was a series of screens. I started the day with the thing that woke me up and so I sat there in bed watching and bouncing around between a bunch But then it was time and so the thing that I focused then on, in addition to the omelette in the pan, was the iPad that was And then it was time to do some work, and so I went to a different screen which was attached All the while, this little devil on my wrist was tapping and beeping as I was trying But there was one particular offender that I wasted more time on That was this dastardly thing: my phone. I could spend hours And so I decided to essentially, get rid of the thing for a month. As an experiment, I thought, &quot;I'm going to live on this thing at a maximum.&quot; And so this is the amount this is the amount of time this is the amount of time I have for everything that I could to listen to music, to listen to podcasts, and I observed what happened It took about a week to adjust downward into a new, but once I did, I noticed that three First, my attention span grew. It was like I could focus on things, not effortlessly, but with much more ease than I could In addition to this, though, and especially when my mind I had more ideas that my mind arrived at, and on top of this, I had more plans and thoughts Getting rid of one simple device Why? Noticing this a few years back to get to the bottom of what it takes I pored over hundreds of research papers I don't know if you've ever watched where somebody's solving a murder. And so they have this big Bristol board, and there's string attached to papers attached to memos this is like what the state I flew out to meet experts I conducted more experiments on myself until the point I had about why this is the case. How does technology influence I want to start with the attention spans that we have. This is how we pay attention and how much control The research around It turns out that when we do work especially when our phone is nearby, we focus on one thing for just 40 seconds before we switch to doing something else, and when we have things like Slack open this lowers to 35 seconds. But the reason that this is the case after looking at the research. We think the problem But after looking at the research, this is what I've come to know which runs much more deeply - It's not that we're distracted; It's that we crave distraction Our brains love these tiny little nuggets of information and social media and email and these things that we do There's even a mechanism in our mind by which our mind rewards us one of those wonderful pleasure chemicals, the same one we get when we eat and order you know, the same one We get that same stimulation We get this dopamine And so we not only crave distraction, but our mind rewards us for seeking out and finding So, this is the state of our minds today. We're at this hyperstimulated state where we bounce around between these bunch that are very, very And so I thought, &quot;Okay, if the phone what if I lowered how stimulated And so, you know, when we go from being into a state of low stimulation, it has a name. That name is called &quot;boredom,&quot; (Laughs) you know, this restlessness that we feel and then we're lying on the couch &quot;Alright, well, what am I doing now?&quot; So, I put out a call to the readers &quot;What is the most boring thing I'm going to make myself bored And so I did some stuff that I still am Day one, I read the iTunes (Laughter) It's actually shorter and more readable Day four, I waited on hold with It's very easy - This is the trick: if you want to make yourself bored, don't call the reservations department, because you're going to wait hours, Day 19, I counted in the first 10,000 digits of pi. Ugh. Day 24, I watched a clock tick, tick for one hour. And 27 other activities this month. Jeez. I still think back. But curiously, I noticed the exact same effects It took about a week into a newer, lower level of stimulation, and this maps, curiously, that shows that it takes to fully calm down and rest, like when we're on vacation, Our vacations need to be longer But I also noticed I was able to focus because I wasn't surrounded but my mind was so much less stimulated that it did not seek the distraction But the fun part were these ideas that didn't before, and the reason that this is the case is because my mind had a chance There's a great quote that I love from J. R. R. Tolkien, where he says that and the exact same thing is true, with regard to our attention. If you think back to when your best, you're rarely focused on something. Maybe this morning or maybe some morning in the past, and then your mind had a chance to connect that were swirling around in your mind to create an idea that would if you were focused on something else, on your phone, for example. This is a mode, especially when we do this deliberately, I call this mode &quot;scatter focus.&quot; And the research shows that it lets our mind come up with ideas, because of where our mind wanders to. This is fascinating. It turns out that when we just it goes to three main places: We think about the past, and we think about the future. But we think about the past only about 12% of the time, and often we're recalling ideas But the present, which is a much more we wander to think And this is, you know, something and you can't find a way because it's very delicate, you go and walk to another room, and the solution hits you because your mind and prod at that problem But here's the thing: our minds wander more than the past Whenever our mind is wandering, This is why when we're taking a shower, even though it hasn't started yet. This is called and it occurs when our mind wanders. If you're good with math, or maths, I should say - not in Canada anymore - these numbers don't add up to 100. It's because the rest of the time, or it doesn't have an idea inside of it But whatever it is for you something that's simple, something that doesn't Mine happens to be something that is not necessarily stereotypic but I love to knit. Knitting is one of my favorite hobbies; I knit in planes, I knit on trains, I was knitting in the hotel room because it helps calm you down, And I come up with so many ideas But whatever it is for you - it might be taking that extra long shower, upgrading your shower to a bath so you can soak not just with your body It could be simple; if you're at work walking very simple change - but if you don't use your phone your mind will go to the meeting it'll go to the call it'll wander to the ideas and it'll make you It could be something and just, I don't know, waiting in line. It could be getting a massage. You know, whatever it is I love this picture so much - (Laughter) whatever you love doing. Here's a pro tip: Ask your masseuse to let you because ideas always come to you so capture them so you can act upon them later. But I think, after doing we need to make two fundamental shifts with regard to how we think We think that we need to fit more in - you know, there's all this talk I'm an anti-hustler. I'm one of the laziest people and I think that's what gives me We don't need to fit more in. We're doing enough; we're doing too much. We're doing so much It's sad. This is when our best ideas We need more space. If you look at what allows traffic what allows it to move forward as you might expect, it's how much space that allows traffic to move forward. Our work and our life are the same way. The second shift: we like to think of distraction It is not. It is a symptom of why which is the fact I have a challenge for you. It's a two-week challenge, but it's a challenge to make your mind and simply notice: what happens to your attention? How many ideas do you get? How does your focus change? How many plans do you make? So, for two weeks, There are so many great features that'll let us eliminate a lot of the time Use those features, not only to become aware but how you can spend less Have a disconnection ritual every evening. One of my favorite daily rituals: I disconnect from the Internet completely from 8pm to 8am. My fiancee and I, we have a technology Sabbath every Sunday, so we can disconnect and reconnect with the physical world, Rediscover boredom - Please don't call Air Canada. But rediscover boredom, Lay on the couch, And scatter your attention. You'll find some in that attentional zone. If there's one thing after doing this deep dive it's that the state of our attention If we're distracted in each moment, those moments of distraction build up and accumulate to create a life that feels like we don't have a clear direction. But when we become less stimulated, we get the benefits of added productivity but we also live Thank you so much. (Applause)