(upbeat ambient music) in the United States of America, there exists a very special community. A community barely touched or the pace of our modern digital world. I set out on a road trip in Pennsylvania to find out Join a trip to the land of the Amish, get to know their way of living and visit the most interesting (upbeat ambient music) - Good morning everyone. I'm currently driving from Harper's Ferry and I will do more or less from here in West (upbeat ambient music) I crossed from the state West Virginia into the state Virginia. And when crossing the Potomac River, I crossed the border where I continued my ride until I reached the state Pennsylvania. (upbeat ambient music) - I actually did a lot of which in the morning I didn't expect. But there were always some nice that I could choose, so the ride was much nicer than I thought. But now the next destination which is in Pennsylvania, and if they want to visit Amish country. (tranquil ambient music) Lancaster County is a county with the city Lancaster The Pennsylvanian Amish are America's oldest Amish settlement where tenthousands still live a centuries old plain lifestyle on the lush green In the middle of the which probably can be for its lively arts and theater scene, restaurants and markets. Forbes named Lancaster as one of the 10 coolest - I drove today from and now to Pennsylvania and to where the Amish people stay in a hotel and explore (upbeat ambient music) - So this was nice, was but now we are heading because we are not here but to learn more about the land and the life of the Amish people. And there is a town that is if you want to get to know it's called Bird-in-Hand. That's where we are going now. (upbeat ambient music) - Look, this is the that I have encountered so far. Pretty different than riding And how cool is that, that here next to the road So they can drive there and the (upbeat ambient music) - This is Bird-in-Hand, and Let's check into the hotel and explore the town a little bit. I will actually stay here for two nights. (upbeat ambient music) The quaint little village Bird-in-Hand is located between rolling farmlands in the heart of the Amish settlements. It is one of the best places to stay if you want to explore Lancaster County. And indeed you can already get a glimpse into the life of the Amish here. There are several shops run by the Amish where you can buy the famous food or sweets, or the popular that emphasize the Amish people's belief that all humans are and that only God can make people. The old order Amish have many rules about to prevent worldliness. The most obvious trait is that they choose a life of simplicity. The reason the Amish lived this life is because they believe simplicity They take the biblical command serious and try to separate themselves That's why the Amish for their clothes and no patterns and why the Amish drive horse-drawn It is believed that cars and bicycles move too quickly over long distances and therefore could connect the Amish to the outside world too much. (horse neighs) (tranquil ambient music) The Amish rules governing and electricity are complex. If a power source is not the Amish can use it. So the Amish can use power propane, and diesel. These rules actually allow for example, lights or lamps. In addition, generators or batteries are allowed by the Amish. Phones are not permitted in the home, but are commonly used for Many of the Lancaster Amish by the way speak Pennsylvanian Dutch, which is a variety of Palatine German spoken by many descendants in the United States and Canada. There are possibly more than 300,000 native Dutch in the United States and Canada. (upbeat ambient music) - Good morning everyone. I decided already yesterday to stay in Bird-in-Hand for two nights. So I have the whole day today and see the best places to visit and as well visit some historical places. And first things first, I will visit one of the here in the area where many, And that's where we are heading now because it's always good to be at markets as early as possible. - So the market I want to visit and about 25 minutes from Bird-in-Hand. And there are, well, plenty of other things and I will do that of course, but first take you to the market. - Because weather is so bad, I decided to go to one of the markets here and I will take you with me now. It's supposed to be the (upbeat ambient music) The Green Dragon Farmers from 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM, have visited this treasured since its opening in 1932. With seven large market and over a 100 local vendors, to become one of the largest And little did I know that the Amish choose but that baking a lot of according to the Amish is And I of course couldn't resist and tried all the typical Amish sweets, of course, just for you - So I couldn't really film because the Amish don't like But I shopped some sweets and I bought from a little Amish boy... ... his family had a stand... this thing here which And I asked him which is his favorite because they had so many different ones and he said, this pumpkin and I'm gonna try it now. - Let's try this. It is good. My favorite sweets were not but a donut filled with apple and cinnamon and a very delicious apple cinnamon bread. Indeed, these two things were so delicious that if I would have to choose one thing to do in Lancaster County, it would be trying those. (motor rumbles) - Wow, I think I have a sugar high now, but I'm gonna use that to that is a historical site. - It's not directly but to another group of people who found Lancaster County to be a place where they could settle down and especially religion they So let's check this out. (upbeat ambient music) Ephrata Cloister was founded Conrad Beissel who came seeking to live as a hermit following his own religious ideas. He believed that earthly life to achieve a spiritual union with God. Soon he gathered a group who agreed to live on his and the Ephrata Cloister was born. The members of the order were celibate. They were required to 15 inches or 380 millimeters wide with wooden blocks for pillows. They slept six hours per night and from 2:00 AM until 5:00 AM, with a two hour break to watch Each member only was served one The only time the followers of Beissel were permitted to eat meat was during the celebration of communion when lamb was served. (upbeat ambient music) Besides of the Cloister's believing family settled and accepted Beissel as and worshiped with them. Beissel died in 1768 and with him, his idea of his cloister (upbeat ambient music) - I have to admit that but if you make a visit to and do a road trip here food is definitely an integral part of it. So the next destination I'm heading to is actually food again, because I have heard that it's a must and that there are these and there's one kiosk that because it's supposed (upbeat ambient music) First I visited Riehl's and then just headed over the to indulge myself in the famous - So, and what you really they are famous here and I'm very curious because me as a German Bavarian child, of course have very high (upbeat ambient music) Being home to America's first pretzels are pretty much here in Lancaster. This Amish owned and is the place to visit if you want to try the While here, try as well and enjoy the homemade Next to the kiosk, there is a shop where you find a large including quilts, baked homemade noodles, apple - So the pretzel experience They are much more sweet than our German Bavarian pretzels are. I think there is no place in the world that has better soft Sorry to tell you guys. (upbeat ambient music) I have to admit that I had first to accept that the American pretzels are a completely different dish than a Bavarian pretzel in Germany, even though they look very similar. But once I overcame my I pretty quick started to So if you visit Lancaster County, this is definitely a must try. - So I chose wisely now. my next destination has because I really can't eat anything no more for the rest of the day. But instead, I will go to a about the Amish lifestyle and history. And no, it's not just an Amish farm because most Amish are towards tourists, even though people here in the area accept that they come to learn more But anyways, the next place (tranquil ambient music) Located in the heart of the Amish village offers a pretty authentic look On 12 scenic acres of land, the Amish village lets visitors enjoy a genuine Amish property and experience Amish culture up close. Between the 1720s and 1730s, a small Amish community and settled in Pennsylvania The Amish church began in the late 1600s as a branch of the Anabaptist movement. Due to heavy religious persecution, many Amish fled to Pennsylvania The Amish believed the Bible and is literal in meaning. (birds chirping) - Hey. Hello. (tranquil ambient music) The Amish of Lancaster on service first to God and the Amish community. In the Amish village I learned that even though the Amish shy away from using modern like electricity, cars and computers, their kitchens are from what everybody else uses. The Amish have light, and mixers that are powered The Amish will only wear because patterns are too while other rules ban buttons. The shoes of the Amish might be modern such as Crocs or sneakers, While wrist watches are banned, pocket watches are allowed (birds chirping) (tranquil ambient music) There is only one period where Amish usually try out like buying a car, going to the movies, or wearing non Amish clothes. During the period known as Rumspringa, beginning at about an age of 16 when the Amish youth are no longer under the total control of but at the same time not baptized yet, and therefore not under the Before getting baptized, if they want to join the community and dedicate their lives to - This is the end of a day I couldn't film as much due to the Amish usually not wanting their But if you go to the of course you can have an and they are definitely not And as far as my experience goes, they are very polite And it was pretty cool because some of them immediately and started to speak German to me because they speak a kind of variety of German language here. So that was awesome. (upbeat ambient music) - And now with the rain, and tomorrow I have a very So guys, stay tuned for (upbeat ambient music) Guys, I hope you could get an insight on the special life of the Amish and enjoyed the ride Lancaster County as much as I did. Give this video a thumbs if you are a part of In the next episode, I will have to take a and I will ride to the state and go on a special excursion that will require to come like swarms of biting flies. Tune in next Thursday to enjoy one of the (motor rumbles)