- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, Welcome back to Blue Origin for part two of my tour with them. Now in part one, we went where New Glenn's being built. It was amazing. If you haven't seen that, definitely watch it. But in part two here today, of new Glenn's booster. Then I'll be taking you We're gonna be going to Slick 36 where New Glenn will be launching from. We're gonna walk around and It's all just massive thing. You've got the Pathfinder We'll even take you up the tower to see beautiful views of Cape Canaveral. And again, we have an awesome So let's get started. - We're building a big You'll see there's some putting up a big lunar building for building our lunar landers. - I love that. I love the That makes me, - I, I feel that too. I like that too. - That's exciting times for living. That's what's, that's what's - It's a golden age. It is. It's a golden age. It's really exciting. - I - I have a little idea. I think based on the size of the, this - Is the final assembly bay. So, Hey guys, how you doing? Howdy. So this is, so I, I showed you the, if you think the AFT section Yep. And the forward section. Yep. So this is the flight article. Wow. And this, this building is where the, the mid, the aft and the Okay. And so this is, there's a strike. This is that thermal protection cloth that we invented. This is a nickel alloy. This leading edge is just a - So that won't need additional thermal - Protection. No. This, this will handle That's why we don't use it everywhere. It's, it does the job, And this is very light and we've tested it many times. So it will be highly reusable - And this is the bottom of the straight, 'cause it cants up a little bit here where the AF section has - You're very observant. That is, that is correct. Well done. - That's, it gives you a sense of the, how - Big - That's where the straight gets attached. - Oh, crazy. - And this strike more than landing propellant savings. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that amazing? Well, - It's, it makes sense. It makes sense. I've actually done it. I don't know if you've program or seen it at all. I - Have. I'm not good, but I One of my kids is very good. - Really? Oh, that's cool. It's, it's such a fun tool or game, you know, it's fun for, for learning some of those things. And I remember, you know, around with that kind of wow, the atmosphere can do - A little more subtle It helps on asset - Really, - If you kind of fly a little bit, you - Fly into the wind, it's very small. Yeah. But you fly at a slight angle, huh. And it's like an airplane wave. - No way. It gives you And it's, it's, you're - Right, right So this is the, this is the tunnel. So these big lines, one of them is press, autogenous pressurization Yep. And one of them is for the ox tank. Yep. So we're taking hot, it's Yeah. We're taking warm gx. Yep. And putting it into the Yep. And putting it into And so, and then the other for nitrogen. - Yep. And so nitrogen needs to go down that way because it still is maybe using the engines as a heat exchanger - Then sometimes Yeah. It's used on both sides of the vehicle. - Okay. And - So, well, if we walk so we could tell which one of these, so see, you can tell the center one is the, is the Gox? Yep. Because this is the ox. The locks tank is on the bottom. Okay. The LNG tank is on the top. And do you know why? So is - It locks? - Is locks is three times So a little more, actually And so you care a lot And if you can keep the can keep the heavy things on the bottom. Oh, right. You don't need, If we, if we put the locks on the top, then the LNG tank walls would've of the loads Right. For millions of pounds of locks. - Right. So if you invert it, it's just - So this way you want the l you want l to the degree that you can do. So Yeah. You want the I mean, so the lighter things - Yeah. 'cause that would be more - Yeah. Kinda like a pyramid almost. Yeah. - You've got 4 million pounds of thrust, almost 4 million pounds of thrust pushing. Yeah. And so anything heavy to have more structural - Yeah. Yeah. And also - Now there's nothing you can do about the payload and other things. Those have to apply. Right. Yeah. You just have to accept that. Yeah. But you can put the locks And then there are other You know, especially with you do need your center of Right. That you can maneuver the tail of the vehicle under But that all works out in this case. - And also having your center to, at least on the way back through reentry, - You want your center of pressure to be behind your center of your - Yep. So there's a bunch of But if you, if all those things work with the locks on the bottom, - Right. And I love, these are the trades and all these little, like Right. I would love to just sit on these meetings and just hear people Yeah. You know, debating on 'em. So we must be right around the, the common bulkhead - Where the Yes, this is, This the common bulkhead. This is the top this, this, this oage Yep. Is coming in at the top So the common bulkhead is, is right here. - And so then are these the the propellant umbilicals? Or what are those huge - Old, these are vents. So these are, oh geez. These are, these are gonna Wow. So, yeah. So they'll, they'll be routed to the exterior of the vehicle. That's crazy. Yeah. They're they're probably mostly fueling operations. Right, right. You know, But you might, you don't, to minimize venting. Right. In space. I mean, we're really second stage now. Yeah. Yeah. This, this stage. You, you, you don't wanna but venting is kind of waste. But some of it can't be avoided on the ground. It doesn't matter. - Of course. Of course. Right. - And so this, then this is the oage for the LNG tank. And there are the last, these are slip joints. All of this, we're not but obviously this tank And so it stretches and contracts, it just length So when you look at, there have to be slip joints for these lines. Wow. 'cause you, they, they, they are made of a different material. Yep. And they're also, they don't operate the - So they're going So they're, they're gonna change length differently than the tank. So all of these see these white That's, this thing is but it slips on that. Huh? Those are slip rings. So the - Whole entire pipe can basically slide - Up and down, slide up and And then that tank and - Can you imagine having to be an engineer and go, well, it's gonna be, you know, 300 feet at this temperature - It's very significant. And yeah, this is why all of the interesting stuff Yeah. Yeah. This is a perfect example. You think, oh, we'll just run ledge, autogenous pressurization. Yeah. We'll run a line and you're like, well that Yeah. That's amazing. And it can't be fixed firmly Or it'll rip itself apart. - Oh my gosh. That is crazy. - It really is. I love the engineering details. Right. Yeah. To me, that's - A hundred percent. - Hey guys. Hey. Hello. Hello. So here you can see, so this is where the forward module will get attached. We went inside that. Yep. - Yep. - And so the forward - This thing, I mean, vehicle. And its gonna be, - And this is just the midsection, this - Is the midsection. - So you attached an aft and then a second stage, Fair. - Yeah. This is huge. This, I mean, again, and then the whole entire room down there. That is crazy. Oh, when it's fully integrated, Geez. Do you guys, when's, when's that es escapade launch - October? - October? Yeah. it's just the Mars transfer - Window, right? It's just the Mars transfer window. - I mean, there is some, because we can go kind of late in Yep. So the Mars transfer Right. Right. It depends on Definitely. You can go later So we have a little, we Little there, but, but yeah. Yeah, let's go to the pad. Let's do - It. - So we headed out and made production facility on Merritt Island. It's actually right next to the Kennedy Space a little more than 10 miles to launchpad, which is launch Complex Space Force Station. Now you probably noticed that Jeff and I were talking about some problems with the expansion of materials and thicknesses of walls, And today's sponsor Brilliant, can help you learn more about math and physics in an intuitive way. Brilliant is where you learn of interactive lessons in programming, and ai. Brilliant. Emphasizes and a first principles approach to help you build a deep This method of learning is shown to be six times more lecture videos. Brilliance content is developed of educators and experts. Personally, I'm a very And being able to see concepts and interact with them is honestly, by far the best way for me to learn. And Brilliant presents that makes absorbing the For instance, they have a new Visually that would be perfect for anyone who watches my videos and charts to illustrate of the decisions that engineers make as they design hardware for space flight. This course can help you to comprehend data at a quick glance. You can try out Brilliant for a full 30 days by going to brilliant.org/everyday astronaut, or just scanning the or just click the link in the description. You'll also get 20% off of an Thank you. Brilliant. For Time to go check out that launchpad. - This is the integration facility. - Look at the size of these doors. - Oh wow. You can see a, a big faring down there. Holy cow. - Hey, and if you want, I, I'm gonna stand back and get a shot. You stay here, I want to Compared to, this is crazy. Look at that. Hang on. I'd have to get This building is enormous. It's just crazy. Pretty cool, And that fairing, I mean, not much, but it's, again, you got a little tiny person - So this is where, you know, you can basically put everything together. Yeah. Second stage, first Encapsulated payload. We can Yeah. And then it all gets Okay. So we'll see. But there's, that's, you This is a mass simulator that's And we're, we're using it to do a bunch of wet dress rehearsals on That's what's going on right now. Okay. And, but I'll show you, we'll, and you'll see up close. Awesome. - Welcome. At Remind me, I'll take a selfie with you, with you here at the road to space side. - That's awesome. Interplanetary even. Wow. - That is, but it's not getting any closer, man. And the crazy thing is how complex from, from Cape Canaveral. The public's gonna have the - Alright. We can get out and walk from - Here. Wow. Ah, - So this is the transporter erector. Yep. And so it both transports and it uprights the - Erector transports and erects. - This is, that's a payload And it also adds some vibration. It's, it's, it's a kind of that can shake things around. Okay. - Oh yeah. I can see like actuators or something on there that - This is a mass simulator Okay. And then this is a - Geez. - So this just There's no track. Like there's - No, there's no track It's incredibly maneuverable. So - Then you precisely maneuver - To the pivot point. So you maneuver it up here, I'll show you. So there's, you maneuver it a giant hinge kind of locks it in place. And then there are huge - Underneath. I had to pick that all - Up. That, that basically lift And in fact, most of the weight 'cause it holds the vehicle. The vehicle is very because it has no propellants on board. Right. So only weighs a few But to this, this structure is designed to keep the vehicle extremely rigid. You don't wanna put bending While you're transporting it Yep. And so this, this weighs - God. So the - Vehicle weighs a few Yep. This weighs 4 million pounds. And so the actuators have to - All of that, all that mass. That is, this is another one of we've seen the renders of this mechanism and this, this vehicle and how it's going to be And then just to see it in person is absolutely crazy. That's - The pivot point. That's, so that's the hinge. - So the vehicle actually where's the vehicle end And the pad begins is is even the base here, front - Of it. That's the pad. So basically picture that this whole thing in here. Come up here for a sec. I'll show you. It'll make more sense. See those two, those are giant hydraulic actuators. Wow. They're underground. So you can just see But underneath underground they are like, I think actuators that this company I don't know. But those things push. Oh my gosh. They go up. Yeah. And when they push up, this Around this pivot point. Wow. And so then that ring right there ends up laying Yep. On these attachment points. Geez. And that ring has the T zero release mechanism built into it. Okay. And so it comes down and it gets clamped in place by, there's mechanisms over here but that's not a T zero mechanism. Got it. That, that's like Just a hold to hold this ring down. And then this ring has the T Wow. All of the umbilicals, to the vehicle are integrated on this transporter erector. So the transporter erect, you you know, umbilical work in that air conditioned environment. Like what, you know, conditioned And then when you come out here, all that work is already done. You upright the vehicle, all the umbilicals are already attached. It's ready to go. It's ready to go. Here. We can go around, give you The ground ground infrastructure is one of the unsung heroes of launch. Oh yeah. There, there's, there's the, there's the flame duct. Oh my - God. - Water cooled. Like, that's a whole jib down Oh, that thing's huge. - Oh, high pressure water. There are holes all over that and keeps it cool. And it also suppresses noise. So it's the, the harshest and for its payload happen on pad because you've got full Yep. And it's all being reflected off of the launch infrastructure and all of that reflected and rattling everything And so it's a very harsh environment. And so you do everything you can to minimize that environment. And that's a lot of the, you it's for both thermal protection. You have the water. Yep. But a to damp out as much of that that harmful acoustic energy as you can. That's what these things do too. Yeah. They shoot water, high pressure water shoots out of these underneath And that's really acoustic - Shoots the rain birds cover the deck, - Basically cover the deck. Yeah. And so you've got you've got water down there. All of that is absorbing acoustic energy. - And the water tower you might be the tallest water - As we know it is the tallest - That's that on it own is pretty crazy. - These, these towers are 574 feet tall. These are giant. Wow. This one is, you know, for access, vehicle access and so on. This one is to, for the lightning arrester system here in Florida. You definitely need Let's go up here. We can peek. Hey guys. Hey. How - Are you? - Hey Jeff. Yeah. If you could just up to but not pass the gate, - Is it okay for two of - Yeah. - Come on up. You can Okay. It's just a cool view up here. And you can see. So now I for when when the vehicle - Yep. - And it comes down it and it attaches to these bunkhouses here, inside these bunkhouses are these giant, hydraulically driven that ring in place. Yeah. And then that becomes All the engines fire through that ring down through that hole. Right onto the flame deflector. - That is magnificent. God. So is that ring actually, you think that thing would get beat up pretty good? Is that gonna be an - It should be. It should be. Okay. It's because most of the, you know, these, this rain, these But that's not the main thing. It's just that the engines are actually firing right through it. - Yeah. where the plume impinges - When it comes in contact - With something, it's, 6,000 degree Fahrenheit. It's that A settling, cutting torch. - Yeah. A flying giant - 4 million pounds of thrust. So it's, it's everything in Yeah. So there you - Go. It's crazy. - Alright, shall we? Yeah, let's do it. I'll take you up in the elevator. - Oh, awesome. - I don't think we could've picked a better day to be out here for this - Perfect day. This is - Perfect. I love when there's a, by the way, - It's not even that No, it's actually nice little, it's - Pretty nice. It could be hot. - Oh yeah. This is fantastic. - Late May and Southern - Yeah. Oh yeah. It can be nasty. - Could still see the fairing over there, - The fairing through - Massive. - So we're gonna go, we'll go down and then we'll go over to this elevator. Cool. And we'll go not quite to the top of the tower, but almost to the top. - Awesome. So the the Yeah. Is this is I, is new Glen gonna fly - So I mean, at some point Yes. And that is what that tower is for. - You guys thought that - It's also, you know, a But, but that's, that's a few Yeah. We're, we're on the cargo missions. - Yep. But I like how far it's not just what's, what It's what do we need to five years, 10 years time? - Absolutely. And you 'cause these things take time. Yep. - Oh, - Oh yeah. We were talking about not, why don't we check out the pads. - Sure. Thank you. That's very nice. - Help us figure out which pads we're looking at from up there. Yeah. So looks like a lot of the Or is this all going into the, is this all like data mostly or is this - This, you can see the, that's the, that's the oxygen side. This LNG over there. And then behind that wall We, we'll see it better from a pie. Yeah. There's some of the big - Oh yeah. Those are huge. - They're all vacuum jacketed. - Right. 'cause they don't You don't wanna have boil propellant before it - Come on in. Awesome. So how tall again did you say this - Tower? - 5 74 feet. - 574 feet. It's almost 180 or something. Or wait, yeah. Geez. - I don't be quite the view with the - Rocket. You're not afraid of heights. I'm not. - Fortunately that could be, that could be b just panic Right. When we get there, you obviously aren't, you've, you know, you've been above the karma line. So true. - You've gone higher - It's probably a little I, I imagine - This. Yes. This excuse elevator. - What's wild to me is nothing. Probably - This is greenfield - Know what I mean? Totally. - I remember starting to see All of a sudden you're seeing for miles because total, - Total greenfield. And we'll see it better from the top. But that's the original blockhouse. - Oh, okay. that big brown building right there? Oh yeah. That's the original blockhouse. That is, you can see the - Thing sticking out the That's crazy. I didn't for some reason I just - They had, 'cause you so bad they just couldn't rely on it. Old school, like people physically close. Why they did these guys been They did have an escape they didn't have to just weather. They like the vehicle exploded and the roof is burning and all that. They could actually scuttle - Really? How far did that go? - I don't know. Couple hundred yards. - You should explore that. it's in pretty bad shape. I imagine. I imagine after all this time - There's, I, that's what just fascinates me about the whole Cape. You have to imagine how that have just, you know, lost you know, just rotting way, - Have you ever the the, the Winston Churchill bunker in London? I, I have never visited. sometime you should go check it out. 'cause that's what it is. Yeah. It was his bunker where he Wow. And they built it This like giant bunker. And, you know, the day the war ended, they put a padlock on it and nobody opened it until like 1974. Really? So they opened it and they're like sugar in the and all the maps. So where they thought the U It's like completely preserved. Wow. And it's really interesting. - And they, I assume they - Right. And then they kept it Oh, that's really cool. of the best museums I've ever been to. I gotta visit that. Wow. And it's one of those Because they're like, we're They put a padlock on They didn't know. Didn't - The came from here. I can't wait until we're out - Of the elevators. Oh yeah. It's really I'll let you hold that and Thank you. Are we here? We are here. Sweet. All right. Come on out. Geez. Right. - This is incredible. The cape looks, this is the best view I've ever seen in the Cape. - So here, don't drop your camera. Yeah. I'm gonna switch to this, but this is, this gives you a really good So, oh my god. You can see You can see the, the, the flame dock. Yep. - Geez. Then you get a sense - We're we're at the southern tip. So Yeah, that's actually the last pad. - Well that's what, that's that are so Cocoa Beach there and, and Cape Canaveral, I mean they're gonna have actually gonna be the public at Jenny Park right there. Right. - It's gonna be amazing. It's they're gonna be closer to that that is like you are when you're, we're - Also there's the port. So the port is right there. Yeah. So when the vehicle comes back, - Very far. It doesn't have to go very people on cruise ships that'll I mean, it's so true. Geez. So Like man, these, the lightning, the lightning resting tower things are, - Isn't that crazy? - Insane. They're so big. - Yeah, no, it's crazy. - Geez. Just to think. I mean, this is, hasn't been here that long, you know, I mean we're - No, it's brand new. It's brand new Awaiting. - It's, Somewhere down there Is that beach house we were - The astronaut beach house. I think - It's on that point, but I'm - Yeah, it's, I know I've, we, I shot a launch from Vantage Point, right. Where that's like kind of next to you for a Delta four heavy mission. And it was, it was an incredible spot. - L and g. - L LH two. Yep. Liquid hydrogen. And then just over there you can just barely see it through there. Oh, yep. There's locks. So there's, those are the three big commodities. All this, you see, there's vacuum jacketed. Yeah. Transport lines. Crazy. Shoot, this is actually upright system here too. - Yeah. You get a sense of Wow. Oh man, this is crazy. - Yeah. That thing has to to support the fully transport erector. Oh. - At least a portion The rec erector part. Yeah. I think if we go over here This is a good view. So this We call this the blockhouse and you can see the four Periscopes there. - Yes. - And that thing, it's basically, it's like Oh gosh. It's just like, it's And so it's like, and it's a mess inside, but we remediated a lot of it. We'll nev it'll never be It's not really useful, - But it's, can you imagine seeing a new Glenn launch from there? - That would be incredible. That would shake would - That'd be insane. - Yeah. And this is, this pad lc 36 is where Surveyor Mariner, a lot of the early pioneering missions launched from right here. Yeah. And then I think the last mid two thousands. Can't remember what it was. And then it sat dormant - Until this, this it's like business will have been dormant for almost two decades. Right. About to come back to life. - Well it's cool that looking so much history right here. We have the vehicle assembly - Yeah. By the way, this is where Falcon Heavy when they did the dual - Oh, right there. - The dual landings. Yeah, That's cool. And then, that is the big building you see here, I think is lc 37. That's the Delta four heavy pad. Yep. Yep. Which is, you know, being decommissioned and be used for something by the way, we need to build a second pad. Yeah. Because we need and we need it for, you know, cadence. Yeah. So that's, that's Delta four heavy. - Yep. You can see all of the incredible, you know, history out there. Yeah. Now - That's, I just seeing - LS now. - Yeah. Seeing the VAV It looks so ominous just And then you've got 39 B and a. Right. And Starliner is on the pad as we speak right now, which is crazy. - Yeah. Is it, when does it launch? - A couple days. Couple Yeah. When we're - You're doing this. Yeah. - It's crazy now that, and we What I, I gotta ask. Okay, so you've been - See, I'll give this up. Thank you, Neil. - When, when was Lords and founded again? - 2002. - Yeah. I mean we, that's when we started very We were looking at all the, all kinds of interesting launch ideas Oh I'm sure. You know, everything that you could to beat chemical rockets. Right. And after a few, after three or four years of looking at that, looking at every ingenious that only reusability mattered. Like you don't need to, for earth launch and you just at least the booster stage. And, and then we looked architectures and decided And then we built, we built Caron, which is in the Seattle first vertical landing vehicle. It's actually jet powered. Oh - Really? - Yeah. It's cool. It's the You'll see it in the Seattle Museum. And then we built something called PM one, which was our first propulsion module vertical took off and landed - Vertically. new Shepherd capsule, didn't it? Was that the gum drop - It is. Yep. We got it. We built PM but then lost its hydraulic It crashed. And then we built PM four, which is New Shepherd. Okay. PM three was a design And so PM four became New Shepherd and then it's now flown, 6% of all the people who've ever been above the Carmen line have So, and we, you know, it's So - We're And counting and counting. - Yeah. So it's, that's And then, you know, and then So that's sort of the trajectory so far over the last two decades. - And with those two of hindsight almost. Yeah. What, would there be different if, if you were talking, if you called yourself from 20 years ago and said, alright, here's what I want you to focus on right now. What would there be? - There's tons of, I mean, If you could skip steps on technical learnings, which you can't of course. Right. But the real thing, the for Blue started really starting about two years ago from an r and d phase to a rate manufacturing phase. So what's happening now you know, our goal is to be the, the world's most decisive company and to be one of the best companies in the Mm. So, you know, the, it's to sort of the how do you and, you know, sort of the But to really be launching, of times a year that's about operational excellence. It's much more like my it's all about operational excellence. You're, you know Right. and running, you know, or you're talking about shipping it's about, you know, finding of defects, eliminating those and really driving for Yeah. So world class stop on our journey. - Yeah. - Yeah. And hopefully - Yeah. I mean, I think place for that so far. I think you're doing pretty good - Because this is, we talked earlier, but I remind people of this every time I get the chance, which is space travel is a solved problem. It's been solved for 50 years. - Cost. Yeah, that's - True. So we don't, we know We know how to land on the moon. We need to be able to do - Yeah. Yeah. - So that's what to humanity and that's what for there to be the kind of space that I just got to witness up close and personal over the last 20 years. Yeah. On the internet. Right. Right. So on the internet you have, of incredible dynamism. Yeah. You know, big small companies, everybody doing startups. Like there's so many winners and every experiment gets tried. Yeah. And that's what I want Yeah. But to do that, we need so that real entrepreneurial Yeah. 'cause if this, if the minimum size to do any useful experiment of dollars, then you two kids in a dorm room making - Right. The barrier of entry - Entry is too high. And so my visualization for this is can two kids in you know, giant space company. Right. If they can, then - Cool. That's that's awesome. And I feel like that's kind 'cause you've been and time with Blue now you're - The primary reason at Amazon is so I could focus on Blue. Yeah. And, you know, so I'm still very involved in but Blue is really where I'm of my productive efforts. And I'm working harder And I'm enjoying every I'm working so hard and I I'm like zero complaints - That's awesome. I mean, and seeing the, the work payoff and you're seeing all the infrastructure and you're seeing the, and you're seeing the, the with launch is gonna be huge. Spectacular. - The emotional payoff will be gigantic. - Oh, you're gonna probably crash. You're gonna sleep for a week after I finally launches off Bet. And - I'll also be a nervous wreck ahead - Of time. Yeah, you will. Yeah, you will. But that's gonna be the, but with this, the, where we're at in the Cape and everything, I don't how cool this will be for launch of sea for the general public. - It'll, it'll be incredible. - It's ah, it's the, when - Beach and regardless of what happens, I guarantee you it'll be exciting. Yeah. - A hundred vehicle for the first time. - Yep. Yep. Exactly. I mean, just walking up the beach, all, all you see is this pad. You see this pad straight on And it's gonna be spectacular. - From the public beach. Public beach. It's Like, we're, we are just luckily very, we're perfectly situated for public viewing. - For public viewing. Yeah. to, to launch and, and cave. Honestly. It's, yeah. We're - Really lucky in that way. - Yeah. That is so cool. Well, Jeff, thank you so And I, I'm so excited for this program. I mean, it's gonna be one of I think we're gonna see anytime. Thank - You, Tim. And, and really appreciate educating people on space and all the enthusiasm you bring to it. So thank you for that very much. - Thank you. I mean, We'll be cheering for you guys every single second of the way. It's gonna be awesome. My mind's blown. I'm frazzled. And thank you so much to and specifically Jeff Bezos I had an amazing time and I'm so excited for So I hope you guys are tuning in and keeping up with the 'cause it's, as you can tell, and I always huge thank So those of you at Patreon and ex subscribers, wherever you're, however you're helping, even up or super thanks or whatever, it all makes a huge difference and makes videos like this possible. So head on over to and while you're online, be sure and check out our new merch, as part of our 1969 collection. We've got a ton of that pays homage to the 1969 Apollo era. And you know, I believe we're kind of in a new Apollo era so check it all Thanks everybody. That's I'm Tim dod, the everyday astronaut. Bring the space down to