Run. Run run run run. I'm in Point Comfort on the Gulf Coast in Texas. And there's something dangerous Yeah. Oh, wow. That's all plastic pellets in there. Plastic pellet, plastic pellet, plastic pellet Microplastics have shown up in the blood, brains, and testicles Microplastics... Microplastics... They've been found in We're eating and drinking more plastic And you might be likely to blame your own personal behavior Swap that plastic cutting board. But it's not all from your cutting board Plants like this one that are relatively unknown and nearly The problem is, once they get outside the fence line, things can eat them They absorb the harmful chemicals And, those are the things that make them Lots of plastic. So I went to the Texas Gulf Cost, and plastic manufacturing plants are ending up in our waterways So all those little white dots, That's all plastic pellets in there. And why the corporations no repercussions. Plastic but didn't become mass produced when America needed to manufacture Armament manufacturers immediately But when the war ended, with no war stuff to make. So they had to pivot to consumer goods. And part of that was convincing people during the 1950s Plastics Some of the materials are natural elements with many contributions of the kingdom gracious living Well, some protections from the 60s plumbers would use so much plastic a lot of these early You know, this you live in the future. Plastic is everywhere. There's one invention that really shows The Easy-Goer The first plastic soda bottle and Monsanto-the chemical company- After a quick FDA approval, the Easy-Goer and according to this film my brother bought some Coke and I tasted it, and it tastes I've tried the plastic bottle I love them. The bottles are made chemical using a called showed did not leak significant particles which is important because acrylonitrile Only from your Coca-Cola bottler. Just two years after the test run The amount of migration of particles The bottle was banned. I like it very much, I have a youngster five, and I feel safe The FDA approved the safety using testing data from Monsanto, who The FDA did no testing of their own Obviously, bottles but the Coke-Monsanto story shows facts and regulators to push things out into the world as quickly as possible. From 1950 to today, plastic production 2 million tons a year to 450 million tons. Along the way, we see something familiar pop up: a mention of the waterway about where the Monsanto &quot;Strange plastic pellets&quot; To find out how these plastics are getting I went to the Gulf Coast of Texas, concentration So always looking for the round Or, like the little. So I got three already. This is Jace Tunnell, of the Gulf of Mexico at Texas Jace has spent a lot of time I mentioned earlier. He runs the Nurdle patrol, around the world, to go out and search So Jace's team can discover trends. Sorry, I just kind of threw Yeah. A nurdle is a plastic pellet. And so they're about the size of a lentil, to make everything plastic. They're individually small, but they're the second largest source Jace's first foray into nurdle hunting So in 2018, I was at the beach And that's usually where you just see That's where you look for seashells. But when I looked down there, there was, At the time Jace thought the nurdles he found were He called the Coast Guard for regulating things like this. instead of doing anything about it, to figure it out himself. And what Jace found was much worse Each facility has a different extrusion plate that makes the shape And then the color difference. So, like the yellow, the color, you know, So once you look back at the sample initial spill, we now know that And it could be, And if all of those are different, to 300, different spills And it really shows that there's a chronic problem, with nurdles Big spills do happen, like all the time. But the persistent problem isn't some But just putting these things out part of their daily routine. Jace's Needle Patrol puts out a map and shows where citizen researchers and it really illuminates Yeah. So what we have found over the years there's there's a close correlation to where the higher concentrations are. You also see higher concentrations around Nurdles are transported by train unfortunately, with these pellets, it's at the manufacturing side, a little bit a little falls on the ground during distributing, a little falls It really just accumulates into and washes back up. And there is no body to clean it up. To make things worse, waste by the government, They are barely regulated, whatever they want. These pellets are lightweight, and on the outside of shipping And so if they were considered they would actually have to put If there's a spill, they would have to They would also have to log so it would change you know, the way that they currently In 2022, Texas regulators planned to start treating nurdles But industry lobbyists stopped them. So let's look at some industry And so if we click on here, by one person in a ten minute So we were looking at 200 before, that's 16,000. Right. And so since this is right outside, it's easy to see why the concentrations 16,000 Nurdles in ten minutes. That's a lot of nurdles. So I headed to Point Comfort, Texas, to find out more. My contact there was Diane Wilson, and a fourth generation commercial for local communities Stewart. Chairman. Okay. Back. Ranking if you go downtown Seadrift, downtown Seadrift. We used to have steelworks, All that business is gone? Yes. And with you link that-- is Oh my god, yeah! But Formosa has made a big impact. Formosa, a Taiwanese company, They fought hard to get quick approval near waterways. Ten years later, they fought hard threatening to move the entire plant &quot;tomorrow&quot; The money's coming in, but what happened to the money these small businesses were making? Do you know, they don't even count them? Nowhere in there is the cost of the devastation the fish houses, The state and federal regulatory agencies and its expansion to what they saw But the only boon was It was in people's swimming pools. It was on their cars, covering their cars. So it was everywhere And the state wasn't doing anything. But there was someone who could do something. Like all of us. She kind of lost due to one bill. In the Clean Water Act or the feds are not enforcing then a citizen can. to sue Formosa Plastics I found out where And I got a kayak Nobody told me where they're at. when you have rain everything is jammed, Just straight into this water, Plastic was everywhere. She allied with workers at the plant in mishandling the leakage plastic production that, at high enough They would have maybe a 2,000 pound And it was like, all over the yard. It's all over the cement. It's in the ditches and it's overflowing. he says his supervisor would come in and, how much is over there?&quot; And he said, and they eventually reported 2 pounds, 2 pounds to the EPA and it was over 2000. And he said, I lied for them every time. Diane won $50 million from Formosa, the largest ever citizen settlement And that money went directly to the But when we talk about that amount do you feel like that's enough No, no, no, not at all. For comparison, and these companies, Formosa, Dow and the rest push solutions designed to make it look like they're doing something Like Operation Clean Sweep, the entirely voluntary slate of best management in the 1990s to avoid pollution It clearly didn't do much to stop Formosa's plastic pollution, so what does this all mean for you? Well, it could be making all of us sick. Researchers at the University of Vienna to colorectal cancer. At the same time, we're seeing more and more of that cancer The effects on the endocrine system, that's where hormones are produced, and microplastics We have no idea what this will do I, you know, it's it's real concerning and hear that You know... what long term impacts Do we have a real answer for that yet? Congress may finally be doing something. The Plastic Pellet Free Waters Act to address the lack of EPA But the plastic industry hard, citing the do nothing the regulatory changes are unnecessary. And it's important to remember This is all about profit. out of our waterways Pumping out more and more plastic Does any of that savings or only the chemicals Even back to the Coke bottle: Along with measuring consumer response, enable Coca-Cola USA manufacturing, economic environment They pushed the bottle out quickly and health effects on real people, which is kind of what the entirety Unfortunately, to learn the hard way of, For today, plastics are changing New materials will be found. And not by those now engaged in industry, Your new frontier. Thank you so much for watching. If you want to support more nonprofit, fighting corporate greed, And if there's something that makes you Let us know in the comments.