So this one here is really a particularly York City I make sure to stop by JL Woodwinds outstanding saxophone player, technician, and it's all nearly museum mint. I wanted to make saxophones and John's shop is the perfect place to on hand. Now this list is in no particular order think there's something missing. Be sure to bonus instrument to share with you. I also want the BetterSax Burnin' mouthpieces on alto and the exclusive dealer in New York City so be important to point out that some of the horns old pads in them so it's a bit of a testament [Music] And what makes this particular Mark rare is that this one is called an SC Scroll. S neck Selmer. But that's actually not true, for Selmer company. This might be in the top so I've actually never ever seen one in 55,000 means that this is the absolute first why the scrolling is different on the neck work out the logoing that they were going to do [Music] This one is an American engraved and the bell. The European patterning for engraving when they were shipped over to the United States the collet. The Mark VI was an American trademark. Mark VI altos tenors whatever they're all amazing they're so easy to play. Often times they play very standard going forward for a saxophone I think. Now [Music] I actually am very close to the owner teacher. He purchased this saxophone brand Central Maine in 1947. So this saxophone is a that's ever owned it and played it. He was a of reasons now. The King saxophone company this particular model is one of the most the Silver Sonic. Meaning that it has a solid well. They made approximately about 200 is particularly rare because it's probably in [Music] You'll see this is gold leaf inlay. because it's lost its original lacquer. This had sprayed over. So this is very very rare to that's what they call a King Silver Sonic on the palm keys like D E flat F. You have it designed into that. Pearl G sharp, pearl rollers. owner and my teacher really barely ever got it stack you can see here from 1947. And they're play great and so many you know famous players [Music] Now one thing to note about this alto this has a triple ring neck strap adjustment decide where on the saxophone your particular very precariously by the bottom ring. I got the middle the middle ring right balances to be more towards your face. This alto about this alto is it's not a full Silver Sonic is having a solid silver neck and also this one is kind of like a half Silver Sonic. [Music] This is all original lacquer actually. American model that came right before the Selmer Mark actually the real model name was called the you're going to hear them refer to these as gets a little too confusing with the Super also hand assembled here in the United States body bow connection which creates for a really which is so commonly you know occurring. It's just sounding saxophone. It's one of my favorite to that is not all in line. On the Super Balance Balance Action and not like something like all these tone holes are not completely in line. right they no longer run in line and that's for that lower stack tone hole layout so that your [Music] It has the Selmer Super Balance Action As they got later in serial number you'll see that resembles that of the Selmer Mark VI face plate so parts started to branch over from Super Balance a 54,000 serial number which is going to place its definitive feature which is normally seen on the times with an SBA you'll see separated bell key this one has a singular Mark VI style key guard. [Music] These are beautiful sounding American horns. has been relacquered. Often times you'll hear hear hear people refer to it as the naked lady. that there's some engraving fading that happens a machine to buff the instrument. Buffing is aggressive polishing. And then they lacquer coat it Cuz back in the day that was very highly valued repaired that was almost something that they they were doing everybody a favor they're an overhaul and oh sure I'll relacquer it for you. think it took them a while to realize that it [Music] And this one is a rolled tone hole here right. And some people really say that versions later with straight tone holes and those looking for are called pre-war and they often production on this one is around 1937. Here we have [Music] Right see the 10M is the tenor and the 6M is with what used to be a gold wash bell. The and it's been polished a bunch of times so you the inside of this bell but you would this the gold wash bell. This beautiful 6M also has a lot more crisp so you can see it quite a bit one. 311,000 serial number. That would 1945. Often times people are looking for this [Music] The 6M alto has sort of a reverse socket and a double socket right. And it's actually just the So I think that they probably did that as really cool feature that Conn introduced with idea behind this is really ingenious. Practicality is you could push your mouthpiece onto the in place. So as you're playing a gig or you're in move or touch your mouthpiece in any way. You can It's actually just telescoping inside and direction so clockwise versus counterclockwise. And the saxophone so it's really genius but it also up so this one on this saxophone works right. grime crust too much too many cheeseburgers [Music] They just play so open and full and rich. 28,000 place the year of production to approximately Paris France. Look at this beautiful beautiful collectors and musicians in the industry refer you have the mountains in the background and Very very cool, and a sailboat. These saxophones to a little bit earlier in our video, these Balance Action. You can see that transition called the upper stack this is called the lower into the lower stack which on the Selmer gets to G sharp it gets offset and then continues This is clearly a balanced action tenor with sure it does sound a little bit different but ergonomics of the saxophone. It's causing your a little less relaxed once they rotated the [Music] Here's a really good example of the little lobes on the bottom of it. And this bridged as you can see Selmer did bridge some of their little more squirly to control but the sound definitive feature on the Balance Action vent than the Selmer Super Balance Action. If we can see how wildly different that is and how that is just a neat one. Oh yeah baby. Here's a little out for a second. The Grafton acrylic saxophone. guess it's not exactly plastic it's made out of [Music] These were made in England actually and I've actually never owned one until now does have a full overhaul and it does so I'm really kind of honored to own one that little while. While I'm sure they endorsed him Hall concerts. It's Bird so you know he sounds you've ever tried one of these in person yeah these are more of a really cool [Music] Wow dude. That was hard. So what saxophones? There's pros and cons to each right? out if the recently released Selmer Supreme