Every year nearly a half trillion of these per second -- so many that we overlook the with why the can is shaped like it is. Why a spherical can: it has the smallest surface amount of material. And it also has no corners in the can uniformly stresses the walls. But And, of course, it'll roll off the table. 74% of the total volume is taken up by the goes unused when transporting the cans or this problem by making a cuboid-shaped can. to hold and awkward to drink from. And while edges are weak points and require very thick in packing efficiently: it has almost no wasted more surface area to contain the same volume use a cylinder, which has elements of both and from the side, it's like a cuboid .A 91% -- not as good as the cuboid, but better cylinder can be rapidly manufactured. The punched from an aluminum sheet about three-tenths a "drawing die," on which sits the blank top. We'll look at a slice of the die so punch presses down on the die, forming the This cup is about 88 mm in diameter--larger That process starts with this wide cup, and die." The punch presses the cup through cup with a narrower diameter, which is a bit diameter of the can--65 mm--but it's not cup through an ironing ring. The cup stays the walls thinner. If we watch this process wall, and then the thinner wall after it's progressively making the walls thinner and dome on the bottom is formed. This requires concave indentation. As the punch presses cup bottom then deforms into a dome. That manufacture the can. The dome bottom flat. A dome is an arch, revolved around its some of the vertical load into horizontal pressure than a flat beam. On the dome you numbers are engraved on the doming tool. The in the factory, and the second number signifies machine that performs the redrawing, ironing production problems in the factory. In that at a tremendous rate: these last three steps-- in one continuous stroke and in only a seventh velocity of 11 meters per second and experiences runs continuously for 6 months or around 100 Now, if you look closely at the top of the and uneven. These irregularities occur during 6 mm is trimmed off of the top. With an that sealing occurs a colorful design is printed is "decoration." The inside also gets separates the can's contents from its aluminum a metallic taste, and also keeps acids in The next step forms the can's neck -- the "necking" requires eleven-stages. The The top is brought slightly inward. And then the final diameter is reached. The change you can barely tell a difference between one works by inserting an inner die into the can necking sleeve--around the outside. The necking the can moves to the next stage. The necking or pleating, of the thin aluminum. Since the become smaller by 6 mm -- from 60 mm to 54 aluminum can industry produces over 100 billion at least 90 million kilograms of aluminum of aluminum 32 meters on a side--compare Now, after the neck has been formed the top and allows the end to be secured to the body, feature: the double seam. On older steel cans This often contaminated the can's contents. "double seam," which can also be made see the cross-section of the double seam. operations. The first curls the end of the The second operation presses the folds of While the operations themselves are simple, by a small fraction of a millimeter cause of the end and can body, a sealing compound seam. The compound is applied as a liquid, attached immediately after the cans is filled, of about 30 psi or 2 times atmospheric pressure. in non-carbonated drinks, like juices, nitrogen Because the internal pressure creates a strong pressurized can--it barely gives. Then squeeze walls are thin--only 75 microns thick--and of a sealed can pushes outwards equally, and is key: the thin wall acts like a chain -- in it's very strong. The internal pressure --a pressurized can easily supports adds enough strength so that the can doesn't steel food can. While initially pressurized up to 4 atmospheres of internal pressure in and so the can is designed to withstand up or the end will buckle. Why is there a tab else would you open it? But originally cans were called flat tops, for pretty obvious a hole to drink from, and a hole to vent. so that no opener was needed. The tab worked can, and pull the tab to create the opening. tab. The cans ask you to "Please don't on the ground, where the sharp edges of the harmed wildlife. So, the beverage can industry tab. This little tab involved clever engineering. is like a wheelbarrow because tip of the tap effort is being applied on the end. But here's the tab switches to a first class lever which the tip and the fulcrum is the rivet. You as a wheelbarrow, lifts the rivet. In fact, is because the pressure inside the can helps the outer edge of the top until it vents the Looking from the inside of the can, you can If you tried to simply force the scored metal class lever with the rivet as the fulcrum inside the can: the tab would be enormous, about the entire lifecycle of the aluminum describes can manufacturing and recycling. 70% recycled material. Also, Discovery's the manufacturing machinery. Here are two can forming process. And lastly, these are and redrawing processes. The aluminum beverage for granted. But the next time you take a design required to create this modern engineering Thanks to Rexam for providing us with aluminum thank you very much to the advanced viewers this video. We read every single comment. viewer check out www.engineerguy.com/preview. footage. For example, you can see a early can sign up there to become an advance viewer.