(Evil hysterical laughter) It's actually not that funny -- the idea of a god driven mad. I wasn't laughing as a child, when I discovered that under the cartoonish waters of "The Wind Waker" lay a kingdom-sized graveyard world life. "Your Gods destroyed you," remarks this face that Link makes -- that was me. That was the king of demons... maybe had a point? The notion across mythology. So what happens after a god -- sanity to inane destruction? What happens --" A divine body is born from the uterus of a mad despair. This is the world we see from the first "Berserk," a land where madness now lives in the in service of their new god -- a god who was once in this narrative were formerly human, but have in pursuit of divine strength -- for ascension only the most ruthless would accept the terms. force in "Berserk," spurring mortals down paths to youngest twisted deity, who we learn was once with creating a perfect kingdom led him to make whether those who seek power will always to be fated to be corrupted. Throughout the story, we for their cruel actions onto forces of destiny, But while "Berserk" is a narrative where deities where regardless of any godly predestination, or the dark influence of power, Griffith the world is crueler for it. If a god allows to think they might somehow be turned back. When a their madness usually manifests as some literal, darkness can be removed with a well-placed arrow, main deities cannot be 'cured' in the same way callousness, their sickness, does not manifest deities, most characters instead do not question the cruelty of a higher power one is helpless cruelty... that demands investigation. In the game as 'The Miracle' distributes sickening curses with venerated by a population who see themselves "Blasphemous" takes heavy inspiration from of flagellants and bloodletters -- people who saw they believed to be a divine reprimand. I think such practices... darkly comedic. But "Blasphemous" souls -- sympathizing with their painful and control, to rationalize a world gone mad. For how can one go on -- unless believing it a miracle? heart beneath the floorboards of the "Hellblade" is tormented by dark gods -- giants and keepers putting their faith in her visions. The grim sees doesn't seem to be 'real,' in the literal exacerbated by trauma -- but because she's living her hallucinations, other than as the presence misidentified psychosis seems to be at work in Russia tries to ignore the voices and visions to be the work of -- well, you can probably guess. insanity, leaving you unsure where the mental rot as on-screen hallucinations, much of Indika's angles and abrupt changes in style -- the game's of an Ingmar Bergman film and an 80's arcade game. for an unbroken cinematic experience, "Indika" is leaving a goofy scoreboard onscreen for serious the interactive nature of the medium, putting an Though subtler, Hellblade does have its own where Senua looks right at the camera -- seemingly, a way, there is a mad god controlling both Senua interactivity, games have a uniquely metafictional the player gets to act as divine overseer, given how people play "The Sims," "Berserk" might have But perhaps more effecting... are games where mad this overtly in titles like "God of War," when the force you to continue fighting... or in "Hades II," pause. It's a clever little trick to convey the the bounds of their own medium. But there's a power of a mad god. The game "Fear and Hunger" deities with twisted urges -- but it's not so terrifying. "Fear and Hunger" is exceptionally using spikes in difficulty and psychologically to immerse you utterly in the experience of being with "Indika" or "Hellblade," while trying to as a player... but this time, not as a controller. turn away despite the punishing hardship. It's With its colorful sci-fi aesthetic, "Rain World" Hunger" -- nor does it seem like a setting that don't let the cuteness fool you -- "Rain World's" second, well... throughout one's first playthrough, deeper and deeper into the heart of... something on by a force you can't explain, you enter the of all things -- this nontraditional deity is so large that the superstructure rises high above but a mad one. Five Pebbles' actions have birthed destroyed vast regions of the world, and even in the world of "Berserk," the sickness of the land itself. Except... Five Pebbles isn't just vanished group of superbeings called the Ancients, following his original programing. There is a understood after playing the Saint's campaign, a terrible frost is slowly dimming away the world. malfunctioning alone in the snow, his resources for... company," he says, without a hint of his past discarded creation as the cold slowly overtakes The idea of a mad god creating another mad god... all previously mentioned works -- that of immoral child of the Ancients, the Fear and Hunger deity to abandon it, Senua's and Indika's visions are mistreatment, even Griffith has the Void, a him into the whole 'evil god' thing. But few Spine of Night," a rotoscoped animated movie but is pretty classic fantasy until... whew boy. So, the story takes place on is made from the skull from its dream, and humans were created from the because of the cruelty of these gods, humans rise their own parents. Okay, and then it turns out this exact cycle, of infinite gods killing gods, just a never-ending loop of cosmic parricide and -- and is basically never brought up again -- it's so a concept as one might think. Creations slaying motif throughout mythology. The Greek pantheon who destroyed his father before him, Babylonian of parricidal violence, Nose mythology has Fafnir dragon as consequence. It is a grim, weird pattern there's more to these cycles of inherited violence mad god creates a new form of life the only for 'Godwin,' is a doctor who transplants the creating a new Tableau Rosa of being. Fittingly, mad scientist, most overtly Viktor Frankenstein Frankenstein's monster, a childlike being them to knowledge, and, eventually, resentment as is the case with Frankenstein's monster, from well -- he's god, in the same way that all parents does one do if they discover their god is mad? Wolynn writes on inherited trauma, how "chronic imprint [on a] child" across generations. Notably, monster, tortured and experimented on by his experiments. If you look for it, "Poor Things" cruel gods. Except... though Bella eventually gains she doesn't seek revenge on 'God' in the way of by, and ultimately sympathetic to her father tried to raise her with a kindness his tangled portrait of parent and child, creator and the inherent moral complexities of creating so I'll forgive you the act." What does a creator Claymation short film "Adam," which, despite its adaptation of... Genesis, basically, "Adam" begins even going as far as to bite the hand of tormented by the divine hand that feeds him. You but "Adam" was created by Aardman, the same and Gromit" -- and the medium of clay itself feels Claymation, like all forms of Stopmotion, is a requiring the artist's constant hands on their the hand in "Adam" isn't just the hand of animator. Which is appropriate... because when it thing. In creating a world, an author is both over the lives of their characters. Few films Mark Twain," another work of Claymation which is a chance at explaining it. To oversimplify, the built an airship which contains portals to all his work called "The Mysterious Stranger." Then, world is an incomplete void, inhabited only by of... Satan. And though seemingly aware he is but a decides to make life of his own. What follows is... process in miniature. At first Satan's creations first experiments with Claymation -- but then, his more complex, characters take on a life of their Satan does what any mad god, any author might to mention... that Mark Twain began writing "The daughter died of meningitis. And the versions Twain's famous distrust of organized religion the nature of the world. Most copies end with nothing but &quot;a grotesque and foolish dream.&quot; strange meta-setup of the film. No matter how much the Satan of "The Adventures of Mark Twain" lower rung in the ladder of cruel deities. He his clay mask changing shape so frequently you can like a reminder that it is the author who is the literary character like Victor Frankenstein might was inspired to craft her tale of a creator who her father -- last name Godwin -- disowned her. She cruel god creates another. Of course, narratives authors. The real reason the creator deities of the developers thought this act would make the Hell, the entire Zelda franchise is built on a repeating suffering that haunts the main It's about the darkest punishment a mad god games. To be clear, I'm not saying authors casting doing something morally wrong; you don't owe the you would... your child. But I think it's inevitable storytelling often reflect both their authors and gain a power that can, on some level, be read with that power... If there is 'an answer,' a single after a god goes mad...' well, appropriately, I created by animator Phil Tippett over a period to madness and birth and creative obsession -- and with the main character descending into a hellish vast fossilized remains towards a realm of utter parade of depravity, one that it seems only the When watching the film, it's impossible to forget physically created. Stop-motion requires material all this machinery of cruelty -- is, to a greater it seems inexplicable that someone would create a way it makes perfect sense. "Mad God" is development, and the struggles that comes with title... can definitely be read as autobiographical. God" within the world of the film, an overseer is simply the result of network of individuals that the main character is not elevated from first things we see him do is step on this weird can -- the only justification any character in "Mad a film was made, to show us that anyone given Possibly. At the end of "Mad God," a denizen a mesmerizing sequence, a dizzying timelapse effects -- and it begs the question why? beautiful sequences, instead choose to reign over reason, some grand design, some explanation ...And then the film ends. For all that can the echoes of power, creativity, and cycles of understood... well, they aren't all that mad, stories matter is they remind us cruelty is not reasoning can miss the point. To entertain the accept that the universe isn't always a place are perfectly sensible. When we tell tales of of life's sorrows, and perhaps there is a strange and foolish dream,&quot; maybe it's mad gods all the a work grapples with meaning and conclude that your fault. All any creation can do is decide for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please hitting the notification icon to stay up to date