Hello, this is Laura Brandenburg from Bridging Today, we're here to talk about how to write Writing clear requirements is a foundational of writing good requirements. When you write requirements in a clear way, be properly understood by your business and Clearer requirements tend to have fewer review focusing less time on, what does this requirement and what do we what the requirement to be, and meetings as business analysts. This is the important one when you write to make sure they're clear, you're going questions that you can ask your business and This is going to showcase your power and your Let's jump right in. I'm going to share three ways that business how you can avoid mistakes and ambiguity. The first tip, and the first thing to focus called active present tense. We have a tendency, sometimes, to use passive We use passive voice when we are missing a the requirement. For example: Job posting details are entered. 2. Job posting details are saved. That "is" and that "are" are indicators We want to avoid those like the plague in Because it's not clear who's responsible I'm going to read you the alternative. If I were putting these in a use case, I would 1. Job poster enters job posting details The system saves the job posting details. Now we've added a "who" or a "what" which was missing before in the passive voice. We've replaced that "is" or "are" the requirement. It's much clearer as a result. The second way that we tend to be unclear is when we use terminology inconsistently. This can sneak into our requirements just have a community of people that are all familiar lines and they kind of know what you're But then, suddenly, you bring in a new developer, team who's sitting in on the requirements of that work is outsourced, or a new business up the requirements where you left off. Those small variations are all going to create Are these really the same thing? Is a job poster and a job posting agent the Is job posting details the same as job details, Somebody who's really looking at your requirements or they could make assumptions that aren't You want to go through and make sure that Take the time to define them in a glossary write your business processes and your use and functional requirements. You want to make sure you're using those The final tip I want to share with you today Often, words like "and," "or," "before," multiple requirements together. It's easy when you have that kind of lumping and not the other and have either the business or the technical stakeholder and tester miss I'm just going to read you an example and "Job poster enters job posting details and Is that a clear requirement? There are a lot of active verbs in there. There's not passive voice, but there are I'm going to read it again. "Job poster enters job posting details and There's a requirement for entering the job There's a requirement for reviewing them. And there's a requirement for saving them. Before saving, there's this whole other end with those two words. If you were discussing that for implementation, to get missed. There's a lack of clarity in our requirements. When we break it out in separate requirements, What I want you to do as a next step is use I want you to go and look at your most recent document it was, and see if you can find any As a bonus step, this is where your career you can find another business analyst in your go to your local chapter meetings and collaborate, documentation. What's going to happen as you do that, is It's harder to see our own mistakes. It's easier to see other's mistakes. This is why we offer instructor reviews as through the courses, go through these detailed see their own mistakes, and then an instructor The switch flips, and they're able to make You can do this on your own by doing peer company. You'll learn a lot when you review somebody doesn't come across as a clear requirement, your documentation to make sure it's clear I want you to go ahead and do that. Please comment below any A-ha's you've steps that you're going to take to review Again, my name is Laura Brandenburg from Bridging We help you start your business analyst career.