McDonald's golden arches are starting to lose their shine. The fast food Growth is stalling, quality has plummeted, In early 2024, McDonald's reported a shocking drop in sales- down by 1% after So how did one of the biggest corporations on the In today's episode of The Infographics Show, we'll You're tired after a long day at work and You're looking for something filling all - because you just checked your So you drive to your nearest McDonald's. Solution but you know this is where you can You're in the drive-thru line, ready to fries, and a soda, you glance up to the menu And that's assuming you're not in looking at you Hawaii, with your $7.39 Big Mac. We assume the increased price But you also want fries - $1.89 You try to do the math in your head and can just use the calculator app Before taxes and fees? Who's running Since you make $7.25 an hour at your almost an hour and a half of your wages On top of rent and bills and insurance, gone to a casual sit-down restaurant You remember when Big Macs How is it that you could easily grab a burger and now you can barely afford You can't have messed up Well, maybe. But maybe not. It might In 2024, 2,000 Americans were asked and 62% of them said they had to cut In 2009 for example, when the federal the average cost of a Big Mac was $3.57...in hour's pay even if you were making the Inflation has hit everyone hard, but fast Fast food prices have risen considerably and three times faster than supermarket prices - a from their local Costco with empty pockets, If you're wondering whether you should brush up In fact, no less than the CEO of McDonald's, call that "eating at home has become more food giants like McDonald's, even though it might Hey, you may not be able to make but perhaps this way, you can afford electricity! Waiting in line, you think back to when you and you don't remember prices being One reason for higher prices that has frustrated customers is McDonald's raising FinanceBuzz found that between 2014 and 2024, McDonald's, however, items like the McNuggets To be fair, most fast food chains also so everyone seems to be outdoing inflation. But "McDonald's was the worst offender Popeyes, Taco Bell, Chipotle prices of their menu items at more And the executives don't really seem to care. worried about customers leaving to cook at home, the consumer is tolerating it well". Or in simpler Now, to be fair, McDonald's headquarters 90% of McDonald's locations are owned own. But the chain also raised prices Basically, McDonald's had to raise prices Unfortunately, this has now become a cycle; McDonald's keeps raising But wait...why are customers leaving Well, let's get back to you, the As you're trying to remember how much money the drive-thru speaker to give your order. And Welcome to your first McDonald's AI but at least you're getting You start to speak, and the AI would like. You try to ask for your Now frustrated, you finally yell Suddenly a receipt is printed out You panic as you realize you probably aren't gonna be able to pay your rent after McDonald's wanted to stay ahead of the game, forward for fast food stores. Instead of...good They spent one billion dollars putting AI into which started using the technology by The system didn't work half the to change something, the AI would get confused. If they spoke too fast or too slow, it wouldn't we're assuming they just gave If the system did actually process their uploaded viral videos of the AI getting orders instead of ice cream, and yes, in one crazy McDonald's stands by their decision, 85% of the time. In other words, Actions speak louder than McDonald's had pulled all of its This tech disaster sent some customers away, but the quality of food at McDonald's has McDonald's was never known for its good for fast food...and most importantly, fast. That doesn't seem to be the case anymore. You finally get up to the service window to pick up your food. The employee tells So you wait...and you wait...and wait...what happened Finally, you give up and go park your car, telling the employee you'll pick up the Customers have been complaining about longer wait reason for longer waits is McDonald's trying When new fast-casual restaurants - the word for but usually have fresher options - popped customers turned their back on McDonald's. Young customers were especially the tune of 500 million visits So McDonald's decided to offer healthier options They switched from frozen patties to fresh patties for their burgers! But this threw a wrench into the whole longer to make fresh patties, and workers who had This led to 10, 15, and 20 minute waits, in a place where people expected to wait no The flood of people leaving McDonald's for places Back to the endless wait. You finally hear pick up your food, and sit down to eat. Might You open your mouth to take a massive a wave of disappointment washes over you. The fries are still delicious though, because it is the one thing McDonald's Getting past the "meh" taste of the burger, and as you swallow your last bite, your eyes The calories of each option are listed right next that. And more importantly, you can't In September, 2012, McDonald's smarter about food and paying more So, it decided to start posting the calorie count of their menu choices. And that All it did was remind increasingly health-minded people exactly how many calories they The Big Mac, fries, and Coke you got of ketchup packets - no one eats fries That's half of your suggested daily calories, Just one, not that filling, running 1,000 calories is A LOT. Especially The American Customer Satisfaction did a survey of 15,000 customers in 2023 and 2024. They asked them about restaurants and of all fast food companies, People were unhappy with wait times, incorrect orders, and even more McDonald's also came in last compared Completely disappointed by your time at McD's, at the door, and decide to go one block over You relax at this sit-down restaurant, with an give you your food, and not only is the food the A McDonald's patty is 1.6 ounces before that's 3.2 ounces of meat before cooking. A Chili's Big Smasher burger, inspired by You also notice there's a lot more sauce The menu says it costs $12.99 before taxes and BUT, your waiter tells you Chili's has only the burger, but bottomless chips One reviewer compared the Big Mac to a in her Connecticut neighborhood, a Big Mac meal and a 3 For Me Chili's deal Only difference? The Chili's burger No wonder McDonald's Before you go grab a burger check out McDonald's vs Burger Or watch this video right here!