It's winter in the northern Minnesota Snow has covered the ground, and ice is beginning to form on the lakes and rivers. But nestled beneath And that's where we're headed. To come along as we attempt to turn this old log cabin into a warm, cozy home for the night. This is tiny cabin life. We are on the western in northern Minnesota. It's a massive forest at over as well as the Boundary Waters We've just arrived at the Sturgeon River a series of hiking and ski trails into the surrounding area. The Sturgeon River is beautiful. It's known for having crystal clear water, making it a great spot However, on this trip, Instead, we're headed to a nearby lake nestled That's my job into a cozy cabin for the night. All right. We're loaded up and ready to go. We don't have very far to get to our log It's maybe like a half a mile or so. However, I'm not sure what As you can see, we definitely have and the trail reports don't really tell us I'm hopeful that we're going to get there So that way we can get set up, go All right, let's go. And so we were off riding into the woods Now, I do want to note that later on in the season, these trails are groomed However, And so our fat tire bike at all. We arrived at the cabin There were a couple times I had to walk but for the most part All right. Not too bad of a shelter. Place is pretty clean. There's not really any trash. There's just some debris from the firewood Otherwise, you do have You see that? Unfortunately, on most of these places. So that's. That's a bummer. But, you know, it is what it is. But overall, I'm impressed. This is great. It's We're tucked in this grove of red pines. We're right on the side of the lake. A beautiful spot I tried to tidy up the place as best I could. Then it was time for the most important Getting this place warm. My hope is to heat up the cabin a little bit with this wood stove. The trick will be seeing to get the stove pipe while still having the tarp seal While I can definitely say that the stove heats it up in here enough to notice it, it's not like, piping hot by any means. I mean, you can see my breath, so it'll at least do something for us nice, warm and cozy. Dear God, thank you for helping us get here safely. Help us to, Amen. And the super eating Burger. It's very tasty. I wanted to hike down to the lake Before we went out and cut some firewood. There's a nice, short, steep trail leading from the cabin Wow. It's just gorgeous. Woo hoo hoo hoo hoo! Man! Oh, man. I was doing just a little ice check. I knew it wasn't thick, maybe the water would be a couple inches That went over my boots. And I'm, very, very glad that my feet didn't get soaked because I wouldn't be good right now. The bitter cold temperatures that we've had lately have done a lot And while it's still pretty thin, and then able to drive out onto the ice It's amazing to me how fast we went from fall to winter. You know, our fall lasted a very, very long it kind of just like shifted overnight. And now we're just, wonderland up here. We dropped by the cabin quick to pick up the chainsaw. That. We just started looking around that we could cut up for some firewood. So this pine right here looks perfect. It's dead. It's downed already. All I'm going to have to do is take off and then I'm going to cut I'll then haul closer to the cabin. And then we'll cut them up there so we don't have to do as much work You know, back and forth. Too much. Oh, that ought to do it. Now, we just got to haul these things Doing all this work and heavy lifting has me on the verge of breaking a sweat. Sweating can be extremely dangerous, as it can lead to hypothermia And so it's very important to make sure when need be. I cut the larger logs into smaller pieces Well, to be able to blast the stove tonight But the sun is starting to set, and that Because I want to be able to sit out here So we don't just, you know, I have a moose stroll to enjoy tonight. This is from, big Sky Brewing in Missoula, Montana, It's a good winter beer. It's nice and dark and, very, very tasty. Pretty soon, it was time to get some dinner going. I said, Ellie, first and then started to get my food together. So for dinner tonight, That's right. Riley made this the other night, So I'm really stoked to eat it. Since I was just eating leftovers. All I had to do was heat it So before I knew it, it's time to eat. I love me some good leftovers. Especially reheated over a campfire. Oh, fantastic. And there's nothing quite like being on boards To make you feel alive. You know, when I take my cabins out, there's a door to shut. There are locks on the doors. But, you know this. You're a little more exposed. And, as much fun as it is, I always end up feeling very grateful that I have, a a home to go back to. You know. Definitely helps me count my blessings. That's for sure. Eventually, started in the stove. Well, It's weird. When I shut the door to the stove, But if I have the door open, it rages in, and it's letting off But eventually it got late, and I knew it was time All right, well, the fire has burned down. I've got Ellie in her sleeping bag, and, I picked up this, pop up screen thing to keep mice from crawling on me There tends to be mice in these shelters, at least the peace of mind So I'm glad to have it. All right, it's time for bed. We'll see you first thing in the morning. Good night. Oh, good morning. It's about 6 a.m., actually. Slept okay. Despite the fact that the sleeping bag. Did not really cut it. It's, It was barely warm enough I could get myself into a position warm enough to, like, drift off, but. Yeah, this It's supposed to be rated to zero degrees, definitely didn't Good morning. Girl. Good morning. Now that we're up, It's kind of a bummer. I don't want to make a fire on the stove It's like and I don't want it to be all hot, but it's cold. It's really, really cold. Well, we're all packed And, I'm happy to say we left this place I was able to cut and, split And that's what you're supposed to do They're kept up and maintained And so you always want to find some way And I'm glad we were able to do that. So we saddled up And I'm grateful to say it was an uneventful exit. All right. Thank you so much for coming along. This is one of those adventures being forced to kind of roll Yeah. And, it's always a meaningful experience. And, I mean, I just love around the woodstove I just think it's the best. And I hope you enjoyed it as well. I do want to give a special shout who generously donate to this channel, who watch and like, subscribe all of that, It means the world to us. And, it's an absolute joy But now it's time for me to load up I'll see you next week. God bless you.