Jason Momoa is an American actor, model, producer, handsome hawaiian man, the mighty warrior Conan, and most importantly - he's both a caring person. You will learn about him from this Aquaman - how Jason Momoa Jason Momoa (full name - was born in Honolulu in sunny Hawaii on August and photographer Coni. The actor's father is a German, and Irish roots. Jason's parents divorced and moved to Iowa. From an early age, and spent his free time outdoors. Growing up, he After high school, Jason enrolled in a local As a student, he traveled half the and Buddhism in Tibet. But in his deciding to return to the Hawaiian Islands. He was wanted to establish a connection with his father. colleges. In addition, the future actor studied Soon he was noticed by the famous who invited him to come with him as a model. as well as in local beauty contests, and he In 1999, having won the title of model of the The newcomer's debut was his role as Jason Ioann series Baywatch. It is of note, that the creators candidates, despite the fact that he had no appeared in forty episodes, and after the series Hawaiian Wedding. By the way, during the filming and started an affair with her. According to Hawaiian attend the acting school, which he However, Momoa already by 2004 would have appeared and semi-naked models. In the same year, he Vacation. The film was released on big screens critics and the attention of the audience. But the when he appeared in the role of Ronon A recognizable feature of the hero's image was cut off for the final fifth season, because order not to disappoint fans, a wig was made. he received offers for roles that Meanwhile, Jason and Simone announced their In 2006 the couple broke up. Momoa met with the ex-wife of musician Lenny 12 years younger than his lover. He first saw where Bonet played the main role. Jason was with the show, and promised himself to meet her meeting took place in one of the jazz clubs in talking at the bar. They looked as though At the time of their meeting, Jason was the actress had a daughter. But the couple By the way, lovers look very cute together: Jason with a brutal, frightening and at the same 6'4, and a refined, petite Lisa, whose height In 2007, their daughter Lola Iolani was A year later, a son was born, who was given Namakaeha. And this name has meaning. The boy Nakoa means &quot;fighter&quot;, Mana means and Po means &quot;dark&quot;. In addition, the actor first marriage - actress and singer Zoe Kravitz, And their paired tattoos show that much. became important events in Momoa's life. In an unknown person hit him with a broken stitches, and the traces of them became who almost lost his left eye. The attacker In 2010, Momoa together with friends, founded and after performing a ritual dance of the Jason convinced the producers and got which was promised to turn And it turned out to be true - the series &quot;Game the role of the most noticeable character - the Drogo. The barbarian's wife, Princess and Khaleesi Unlike her partner, Momoa only appears in he had to gain weight, which he did with After its release, the project got a cult the well-deserved award at the CinemaCon It turns out that the actor tried to stop Lisa the love scenes with his participation. He did not In the same year, a remake of the film about where the actor played the main character. Despite and received negative reviews, the role of Conan in modern Hollywood. His task was In order to achieve the perfect, in Jason's Meanwhile, the harmony and idyllic life journalists and envious people: during the he was kissed by the star of the series "Charmed" Internet and gave rise to rumors about the after another articles appeared in the press eye to her husband's systematic infidelities. But Despite the success of "Game of Thrones" Jason was out of work for several years. He and his family, as the actor himself In 2012, Momoa appeared as a murderer in the film played by the legendary Sylvester Stallone. budget and partially deal with debts in 2014, He not only played one of the main roles, and acted as a director and producer. One Meanwhile, the star had several more roles, they kept the family from sliding into financial where the actor played a werewolf In it, Momoa played an employee of the In 2016, Jason played a cannibal who fell in love Bad Batch. The film received a special In October of the same year, the Once Upon a Time in Venice took place, in A real success for Momoa turned out to be a thanks to which the actor tried on who commands water and marine life with a he appeared before the audience in the In August 2016, the Guinness brewing named after Momoa -- &quot;Mano Brew&quot;, which At the same time, he starred in the title role about the rivalry of the British Hudson's traders at the end of the 18th century, and So, in November 2017, fans of DC comics were superheroes - Justice League. Participation but the project became a box office failure and which forced the company to Meanwhile, Jason and Lisa have reconsidered their The ceremony was held in Topanga, California. The among whom were: Bonet's daughter from her and Michael Fassbender. Curiously, Zoe and just friends. The newlyweds informed the world noting that the wedding was just another reason and they had felt like husband and wife for her husband a generous leader, which, according It is known that the actor He studied various martial techniques and Aquaman. And after the wedding, he In 2018, the actor appeared in all his based on the comic book series of the same In addition to Momoa, Matt Damon and Simon At the premiere, Jason, along with his favorite ritual dance, which had previously Impressive graphics simulating the underwater Momoa's acting, menacingly waving his trident, The film also included stars like Dolph Lundgren, and Amber Heard embodied the image of Aquaman's not take place underwater, the conditions couldn't and a huge fan blew into their faces. The project the $1.14 billion mark at the box office, while the actor himself received an In the same year of 2018, Jason Momoa was according to the TC Candler Internet portal. filmography was his work in the Canadian is a lumberjack who has to engage in an In the same year, he had the honor to announce in the nomination &quot;Best Supporting Female Mirren. The actor appeared in a pink suit made arm to wrist the outfit. Thanks to this image, In 2019, Momoa joined the cast of the sci-fi plot tells about the future of a human race when sighted twins appear in the tribe. Jason mountaintop. The actor approached his role with project coordinator, who was blind from birth, of blind people on the screen. In order to the actor lived in a sleep mask for for the first episode alone. The project proved Jason has a nice sense of humor. He even wanted which he admitted in the opening monologue becoming a comedian by his busy career, although Momoa as an elf who reports to Santa about Before each role requiring impressive musculature, reducing carbohydrate intake. The only favorite beer. However, in the summer of 2019, many were upset by how his figure differs noted that they liked Momoa who gained In 2019, Jason took part in the promotion of appearing in the teaser of the and voiced Aquaman in the animation Fans who were surprised by the actor's published also know him as an environmentalist. to the problem of plastic and remind of the During the same period, the actor joined the of a 30-meter telescope on Mount Mauna Kea, to install a $1.4 billion device to At the same time, the Australian editorial the title of person of the year, which was In social medoa, the artist said not only for his film roles, but In February 2020, Momoa appeared in one of the football event, the Super Bowl. In the project by the actor appeared in a rather unusual way, losing video, Jason's wife appears, who helps her By the way, in the video about how the ad was it is clear that Lisa can't hold back her Momoa is an avid fan of all kinds of heavy music. compositions inspire him to create his characters. whose members, at his invitation, played cameo with vocalist Oli Peters, practiced the correct In addition, Jason can play On his last birthday, the star was "Fender Precision&quot;. The actor's children In 2021, another story about superheroes from filmography, Zack Snyder's Justice League. In the Ray Fisher, Henry Cavill confront the invasion The actor also appeared in the role of gunsmith novel Dune by Frank Herbert. A little earlier, on Netflix, where Jason played the main role. cliches, and the plot itself is quite generic. the Lost Kingdom is scheduled , and the actor In between work processes Momoa likes to draw. the phone. Nevertheless, Jason gets along with connected with the film industry, Momoa does He is especially fascinated by Japanese poetry also devotes a lot of time to training, Momoa has several tattoos on his body that have a there is a tattoo with the names of his children, of the deceased friend is imprinted on his on the hand are also of considerable value of shark teeth and are a talisman for Jason, who receives spiritual knowledge. In his free time, he archery, throwing knives and axes, roller Unfortunately, in January 2022, Jason Momoa Now the actor's fortune totals $10 million. in the suburbs of Los Angeles worth $3.5 million. is 5 acres and belongs to Jason's wife. it to her taste. Pets also live there - Jason is fond of collecting guitars, motorcycles, a BMW R nineT Scrambler, a glamorous 1957 In addition to motorcycles, the actor has a Range 1955 Cadillac nicknamed Bernadette, a Ford F If you follow the life of an actor, you of baby pink color. Momoa explains this by saying has many different things of this color, which the everyday life. we must say that he is maniacally a business literally once every two weeks. At biodegradable beach shoes and sunglasses, nylon backpacks, handmade knives, leather bags made of What do you think is the reason