- This hulking beast is and it was far, far ahead of nearly 600 feet long back in the day with a gas turbine hybrid powertrain, hub- mounted motorsm, 54-wheel drive and computer controlled by today's standards. But this thing was built So what is it exactly? You are looking at an made for the US Army in an of cargo transportation America kind of way. It was actually one of four each fully functional and more That future was never realized. But the reason why you might before is as simple as Let me tell you the story and his attempts to build the vehicle, the overland train. So in 1954, the Cold and with the threat of Soviet Pole evermore present, both the US and Canada agreed that they needed some Remember, back then all we had was radar, and radar has its limits. a few hundred miles at The US needed more time than so why not build a bunch of them just as far north as possible? Well, just like that, the Distant Early Warning line was born. The plan was to set up a above the Arctic Circle, to Russia's population centers as you can get in North as locations were scouted and up, the US and Canadian of July 1957 to have the DEW line up and running, which was a The problem with the DEW above the Arctic Circle. no established to get thousands of workers and tens of thousands of tons of materials and equipment up there let alone keep them to use in the short summer months, planes limited by the and heavy lift helicopters the US Army Transportation or TRADCOM set about to long-haul off-Road logistics. And they knew just the man to call. Pretty much all you need and engineer R.G. LeTourneau his 1960 autobiography: R.G. In it, he describes a machine he designed to cut supply lines through which he affectionately having trouble crushing some Quote: &quot;When confronted established thinking trees are too big. My own thinking was that and once the problem you build a bigger machine.&quot; Born in 1888, LeTourneau who eventually started a company called LeTourneau Technologies that became known as the primary developer of earthmoving machines and other large construction In fact, the company supplied nearly 70% of all earth moving equipment used by the allies in World War II. And when TRADCOM came knocking, he was working on a new change the world. That technology was a hybrid powertrain, but not the kind you're thinking of. LeTourneau was obsessed with the idea of taking a diesel electric where a diesel engine powers a generator that in turn runs electric motors, which in turn powers wheels and putting it in a road he was convinced that hub as they'd reduce drivetrain With no extra components the power on the box And with hub motors, you could as you wanted, even on trailers. And the timing was perfect. In 1953, just one year before the DEW line was proposed, LeTourneau had sold the earth- to Westinghouse and put all his diesel-electric overland train prototype, the VC-12. The VC was a squat wide control car and trailers designed Each hub-mounted motor had and a reduction gear increasing the power at the wheels. Not only did this increase wheel torque, but the setup also and protected critical components. It's actually kind of and portal axle setup The only difference is that drivetrain turns all four that divorced electric drivetrain. This meant that if he added to each of his trailers, they would only need a power connection and then they could literally by adding to the wheels being driven. And if every four wheel this land train concept would But to tackle the Arctic Circle, that his VC-12 would need to be revised. The new land train would better cold weather performance, and it would need to haul month, LeTourneau had completed his The VC-22 Sno Freighter with the same hub-mounted of 24 drive wheels. The electric motors generated generators, each powered by 400 horsepower Cummins diesel engines, and this bad boy ran a wheel and tire combo over seven as both a Jeep owner's wet dream The reason Leto was able to that he based the by six vehicles his company had made. That meant also in theory, to repair in the field than the VC 12. The 274 foot long mass of metal and engineering set out to make the 400-mile journey to the Arctic Circle. En route, the Sno Freighter contended with massive snow drifts, and minus 68 degree weather. The land train could traverse any terrain that the Great White In fact, the only issue that befall this overland human error. While it without incident, at some point during the second season of work on the DEW line, the to negotiate a steep to jackknife the land train. In the ensuing turmoil, a and destroyed the engines. The Sno Freighter was deemed inoperable, and while LeTourneau the massive land train was too But TRADCOM wanted more. Before TRADCOM ordered another The LCC-1 was a shorter but it sported massive 10 foot tall tires. While the LCC-1 had a of only 45 tons, it had many functionality improvements over the Sno Freighter. The control cab was articulated and it was heated, which is The LCC-1 also had a crane for loading cargo and also for helping to change one of the vehicle's 10 foot tall tires. In 1956, the LCC-1 was and stayed in operation in to complete the Eastern It was eventually rendered LeTourneau took one last crack at And this is the result. The TC-497 was the with a ridiculous 54 drive of cargo cars, fuel cars, and the six by six forward control cab. The cab was raised for better visibility and included sleeping quarters for six and a galley. Like the trains before it, the electric inside each wheel hub, but this time the power came from over 1000 horsepower each. The TC 497 also improved by adding steerable The design was pretty computer, each trailer could where the control cars turned its wheels to match the steering and This is the kind of that still impresses today. So despite being nearly the the TC 497 actually had to an 18-wheeler. While it topped out at the TC 497 could haul before needing to refuel, and that's assuming they didn't But the Army had thought of that too, and actually planned to build with an onboard reactor to generate hydrogen for a fleet of fuel cell powered But then again, this was nuclear powered version And ultimately the atomic land By 1962, the TC 497 had been delivered to a proving ground in Arizona and was outperforming any transport vehicle. LeTourneau had done it, solving an by building a bigger machine. It was an incredible and 60s ethos that human and anything standing in with more. More technology, more American might. There may be no greater example land trains of a highly complex a very specific and temporary problem. Never before or since have building out one man's Ultimately, the land train singular nature would be their downfall. The same year the TC 497 Arizona desert, Sikorsky Aircraft flight of an experimental heavy S-64 Sky Crane. As that entered production, the overland train was to transport material in After all, progress doesn't stop. Just because LeTourneau's machines mean they would be in the future. Funding for the TC 497 was quickly pulled, and the era of the US Army's trains was over in the But what happened to them? for parts and today only exists in photos. The VC 22 Sno Freighter was site and brought back to Alaska and then properly abandoned where it still sits today. I'm not joking. See for yourself on Google Street After its service in through a few owners before Yukon Transportation Museum in Whitehorse, but its influence didn't end there. Some of its trailers outside Seattle where a man of the wheels and tires to attach to a monster truck prototype So I guess LeTourneau also indirectly Likewise, the control car for the TC 497 is on display grounds in Yuma, Arizona, where of an alternate future over 60 years ago. When RG LeTourneay died in 1970, the prolific inventor held and while his land trains never even today, you can't help and wonder watching Maybe it's because it of innovation is just missing today. The land trains are a tangible where problems were solved in Today, efficiency is the goal, and while that does drive it doesn't lead to inventing We've been digging to find these stories for you, and we've got more coming in a few weeks. But I want to know if you've to hear us talk about, shout into the void, send a that we can share it with everyone. That's all for me. I'll Thanks for watching.