This episode of Primal Space is sponsored In 1903, the Wright Brothers invented the Just 13 years later, Robert Goddard launched a technology that would develop into the incredible Fast forward to 1965 when Soviet cosmonaut freely in space. Protected by nothing other than a rope and of the Earth in a way that no one ever had But it wasn't until two decades later that In order to give astronauts more mobility called the MMU or manned maneuvering unit. This was essentially a giant jet pack with to easily move around their spacecraft and Early designs of the MMU were in development during the Gemini missions. But it wasn't until 1984 that the jetpack Even by the mid 80's, spacewalks were no The mental and physical challenges required The spacesuits required to keep them alive Since they were inflated like a big balloon, movements. So while the jetpack wouldn't make space astronauts more freedom and allow them to The jetpack itself was shaped like a large support system on the astronaut's spacesuit. It featured two large aluminium tanks, each This nitrogen would be used as the propellant These were cold gas thrusters which would produce thrust. As the nitrogen was released from the tank, nozzle of the thruster, producing a small This is essentially the same system used on of cold gas nitrogen thrusters are used to In order for these cold gas thrusters to work, high pressures. In the jetpack, the nitrogen was stored at the air we breathe here on Earth. But these thrusters had one drawback. As the gas was used up, the pressure in the thrust with each firing. The jetpack featured two joystick controllers The one on the left would control the up-down, The one on the right would control the rotational With this, the astronauts could accelerate control over their movements. When doing a spacewalk, the jet packs had up to 6 hours. But thanks to the jetpack's genius design, quickly by another crew member, allowing the So, the jetpack seemed like an amazing new But on the very first test flight, things The astronauts who would be testing the jetpack This was to be a very simple spacewalk, to But the problems started for Robert before While in the air-lock, Robert followed the pressure between his ears and the atmosphere But in doing so, the chin strap on his communications floating up to his head. He didn't want mission control to know about So, he talked it over with Bruce and the crew for it. With his microphone now halfway up his face, every time he communicated with mission control. All of this shouting, paired with the dry made his throat incredibly sore. But if he dipped his chin to reach his drink communication almost impossible. Despite this, he continued on with the space 100 meters away from the Space Shuttle. This is when he discovered his next problem. The sublimator in his spacesuit which chilled Following his safety checklist, he turned more water around his suit, using the body This immediately made it feel like he had quickly turned it back up to the normal temperature. Now out of ideas, he turned off the spacesuit turn from a solid straight into a gas and All this did though was cause the carbon dioxide breathing to deepen, forcing him to turn the Robert dealt with several ice blockages throughout to the Space Shuttle and ending the spacewalk. Despite this being one of the toughest space went out 2 days later to perform another one With a bit of tape to secure his communications Many astronauts that used the jetpack on future The level of control it offered astronauts for much longer. At the end of 1984, the jetpack was used for Following the Challenger disaster, many parts for safety, the jetpack was considered to As the Shuttle itself continued to develop, And with NASA putting more training into tethered But its legacy lives on. Now, astronauts wear a slimmed down version This smaller jetpack is essentially the astronaut's If an astronaut ever found themselves floating for a short period of time to help them get And although the jetpack never lived out its amazing to see how things like this could and more people in space. Thanks to BetterHelp for sponsoring this episode As we slowly come out the other side of the how difficult it was for us all. It may have severely interfered with your BetterHelp will assess your needs and match You can start talking to one of the over 20,000 With availability all around the world, you and receive crucial help which would otherwise BetterHelp wants you to start living a happier To join the 1 million people already feeling to get 10% off your first month. If you'd like to support the channel even will be doing a giveaway of the Space Shuttle So make sure you're subscribed so you can more about all things space. Thank you very much for watching and I'll