(light organ music) - [Johnny] Joseph Smith, He's the author of a worldview that I held for most of my life. I taught it to hundreds of It's a religion and a gospel One full of hope and meaning and community and unique stories. Stories about where we came Let me show you what Joseph How a non-religious, uneducated created a global movement of followers in a very short from town to town, often with violence. I wanna show you how these and mission that Joseph of a new utopian society, one one that was preparing and the second coming of Jesus Christ. So let me tell you the the church he built, and how that church and its - [Speaker 1] It's okay, a - Hey, before we open up that I've been thinking I want to thank the the people who make this all possible. Thank you BetterHelp for BetterHelp is kind of because BetterHelp is A few years ago I started not because I had some that I was trying to address, but rather because I wasn't feeling good, I knew there was things to work through and there Going to therapy has changed my mind. It has changed my life, it has changed how I see the world and it has made my life BetterHelp is a platform that makes therapy more You sign up for that kind of tells them and your needs and your with a professional licensed therapist that you can start communicating with in as little as 48 hours. You can have your therapy as a video chat, or even as a text message if that's the most comfortable If your therapist isn't a good fit, you can change to a With access to BetterHelp's of professional licensed therapists, they have like tens of thousands You can find somebody who's All of this makes finding a than the traditional methods. A major supporter of that is a life changer, at least it was for me. So there's a link in my description. It's BetterHelp.com/JohnnyHarris. When you click that link, You also get 10% off your your So you can try it out at a So I'm grateful to but also for sponsoring today's video. With that, let's dive back into this. Let's talk about the prophet Joseph Smith. Joseph Smith was born in the perfect place at the perfect time. It was the early 1800s and England to become a new country, and it was going through Most of these new Americans who rejected a lot of old world Only 10% of white Americans regularly attended church at this time. So to help revive God, you have all these super the cities and went out to And this led to an explosion especially in upstate New York. So now you have all these that were replacing old style, All these new wild religious flavors that were more emotional, I mean, none of us were but you can kind of imagine founded on these new ideals. It was unprecedented times. America felt special and different, but also kind of scary. Revolution in the new world, new science, magical both wholesome and sinful, all of it speeding up For a lot of people this was a sign, a sign that the end of and that Jesus, like he prophesied, would come back to usher in for those who believed in him. And a thousand years of This was called the Millennium. So a lot of these new churches that were cropping up kind that was preparing the like they were God's chosen in the final days before it all ended. It was scary, it was exciting, and God was talking to And this is the context that In 1805, born to a mother who was swept up in the excitement of and a father who wasn't It was kind of like a lot a family that was religiously (suspenseful music) In addition to being a upstate New York was also a place where people hunted for treasure. There was this culture that led to the search that were potentially or pirates of the past or artifacts that were hidden in Native And their methods for were mystical and magical. They used seer stones, crystals, rods, visions through dreams, all of this to help them And young Joseph Smith was very caught up in this treasure hunting craze. He wasn't educated, he he could kind of read and write. He wasn't religious, but from a young age he showed himself as a I mean, let's keep some perspective. In all of our research, we didn't find a single that he actually found any treasure, but he managed to convey that he was an expert treasure hunter, using mythical methods. So this is the context that understand this story. We're in upstate New There is this frenzy of folk and the place is a blaze And there's talk of the last days and the millennium of fire and glory that was coming any day now. But the story really begins (birds chirpy) Joseph, a 14 year old boy And after visiting a bunch of churches and finding no answers, he decides to go into a which church was true. This movie that we're watching right now, I know by heart because I've of course, dubbed in Spanish. I was a missionary in Tijuana, and the first thing that I would teach people was this story. And I would often show them this movie. - [Joseph Smith] I kneeled the desires of my heart. - So Joseph Smith is in this grove and he's praying and after - [Joseph Smith] Exerting all (suspenseful music) - He sees a pillar of light, brighter than the sun And within that light, he sees two people whose He finds out that it's God the Father and his son, Jesus Christ. And Jesus goes on to tell that he's been investigating are true and that instead Joseph is being called to do the work of God, to that had been lost from the earth. To restore this church, to prepare the world for and the millennium that he will usher in. This event is referred and it is the founding The Mormon Church, like As a member of the church from a very young age you sing about it, you talk and every few years the church comes out with a new video version Okay, so this is just the beginning. A few years go by, Joseph about his vision, but by 1823, Joseph is a late teenager in his like little humble and he says that an angel appears to him. The angel is named Moroni. By the way, if you ever big white building, you of the angel Moroni on the top of that temple with a trumpet pointing east. But for now, he's an angel telling young Joseph that, of Christ is right around just like God and Jesus he has been called to prepare the world for the second coming. And if that wasn't enough, Moroni tells him that there on golden plates that is buried in a hill near Joseph's house. The book is an important who left Jerusalem in 600 Anyway, I'll explain that in just a second &quot;And don't worry,&quot; says there's the gear you need to translate these plates into English.&quot; Joseph just needs to get a bit older and he'll be ready to At this point, Joseph tells his and they believe him. So by the time he's 21, he's Cumorah, near his house Okay, so now Joseph Smith in his twenties, he's this uneducated, and he starts to focus in In the words of one believing Mormon historian Richard Bushman, &quot;He starts to orient and towards translation&quot;, (suspenseful music) So Joseph says he goes and people try to rob him, but eventually he gets them secured. And in a little cabin in rural New York, Joseph begins the work of metal plates that no (suspenseful music) He would sit on one side of a curtain so that no one else could see, and he says he looked through these stones at the Egyptian engravings and they would turn into English, and then he would dictate sometimes his wife or other supporting him and that At other points, Joseph didn't even need He could hide them somewhere else and he would use his personal seer stone, the one that he used back when before he says he was called as a prophet, this little chocolate He would put it into a hat and in the hat and he said that with the word that he was His scribe would write it down and the Book of Mormon was being written. Now listen, all of this seems really weird and wild to us now, clearly this guy's making it up, but at the time, mystical and seer stones, this was Folk magic, native American artifacts, none of this was very fringe. And Joseph, Joseph had been doing stuff like this for a decade, and other people in his The difference though at this time is that he was blending his and his folk magic sensibilities that was happening at the time to create something kind of unique. (birds chirping) So anyway, he's in his early twenties, he's translating the Book of Mormon. He faces a bunch of ups and downs, he goes through a few scribes and after a very productive 90 barely educated Joseph Smith of text that would become (birds chirping) Joseph says that he gives and then takes the manuscript That's how we have the Book of Mormon. This is my Book of Mormon. Maps, my early exposure to maps. (pages turning) So the Book of Mormon is because it was the main in those early days and continues for believers in the LDS faith. That's because Joseph Smith and now suddenly he's in a few months. And yes, this book is of like full blown copy and But there's also like a lot here in terms of religious nods back to like an understanding of Hebrew language and culture. This is not the type of guy He was a treasure hunter and a farm kid, not a religious man, and - [Speaker 2] Mr. Smith, about that book? - Yes, yes, I could. - Okay, so let's be clear The Book of Mormon is, it's which is like the Mormon Bible. The book tells the story of in around 600 BC. They're told to leave the city before it gets destroyed. So they leave the city, they probably to like Oman is And then they build a boat for a very long time until somewhere in like North The foundation of the story of the original family who and they like hate each these two different civilizations, the Nephites and the Lamanites with each other. And there's all these prophets and there's all this drama that happens. And the introduction to &quot;The Lamanites&quot;, these people are quote &quot;the principle ancestors And a few years ago they did being among the ancestors But yeah, the point is is a history of these Jews And unsurprisingly, there's a who work to validate that this is actually a historic record. But no, in the reality there's or linguistic evidence that assertion that Jewish people migrated to the Americas around 600 BC. For believers, the most is the climax of the whole thing, where in 33 AD Jesus, having over in the old world, in Jerusalem, gets resurrected over there and comes to visit the people in America, which is where this painting came from. This is a painting that is hanging in a lot of LDS churches. It shows Jesus Christ among of the Americas. Yeah, some pretty wild stories. (suspenseful music) (birds chirping) So yeah, I know we're all over the place and we'll get back to Joseph But as someone who has read I can tell you that this is a really compelling piece of work. You can read these pages and and the lessons and the metaphors and you can take a lot from it. And the biggest thing that it is proof that Joseph Smith to prepare the world that he was a legitimate prophet. So Joseph Smith by 1830 He has proof that he's a prophet and he starts to gain followers, And a group of those followers in a little house in Fayette, New York, and they start a church. At this point, Joseph Smith is behaving like a full-blown prophet. He says he's getting almost and he starts to develop a theology that is unlike anything else on offer. (light piano music) Turns out that God is actually and bone and he has a wife. God lives near a star that's far away. And we, all of us here on eternal balls of light but are heavenly parents have birthed us into spiritual children. And then they sent us down onto this earth to get a physical body, to get married, to create an earthly family, So that someday we can with our families, and then we can become We can create our own spiritual families in some other part of the we have to pass some tests here on earth. We have to complete certain rituals and demonstrate obedience to him. And in order to make this all happen, he needs to set up a church. The church needs to have proper authority and there would need to be a savior that would come down to so that we can be pure to enter Luckily, one of our spiritual called Jesus volunteered Okay, but there's a big problem, which is that God's children So over the years, God calls prophets to organize his church and to do all of these special rituals to teach them about Jesus. And eventually that truth and the world falls into When God calls another prophet and start the whole process over again, this happens over and over. Until eventually Jesus came, He establishes his church gives them the authority by And then of course he suffers for our sins and dies on the cross. But just like has happened over and over, Jesus' church got corrupted, it got mixed with power and politics and the world fell back into the apostasy. This one's called the great apostasy. But eventually the world Jesus would be coming soon and things were about to get really bad. So God helped Europeans to take over North America, colonize the land, and create a country that had freedom of religion. Also, that a few decades later, Joseph Smith could be born and then called to restore his church. And that's how we get to the first vision. Jesus and heavenly Father in a grove, sending angels to get the golden plates. And to solve for the Joseph says that the apostles, the original apostles of to restore the authority that priesthood that Jesus had given them. So now he could establish his church. There was a restoration, Joseph was the prophet of that he could talk to God, he could get instruction on here on earth to prepare the Okay, that was a lot. And lemme just say that was of LDS theology. Someday I'd like to make because it's actually super The point I'm trying to make here is that Joseph Smith's church of the ingredients of the last days, apocalypse preparing preparing for the millennium. This was all trending at the time. This was not surprising. But a lot of this stuff was totally new, wild fringe doctrine. God has a body and a wife. This was a completely wild American folk magic, reincarnation, evangelical Christianity. And eventually he even woven freemasonry. A totally fresh thing. There was nothing quite like it. It was super unique and super You either believed that Joseph Smith was an incredibly inspired the truth that none of or he was just a brilliant, inventing this elaborate which is what a lot of started to think as he They had him arrested, calling He eventually gets that he and his few members need to leave. (organ music) This begins the long journey Joseph and his followers set out. He's now talking to God and he says that the Lord to await instructions for the place that they're actually their millennial kingdom, this communal utopian society for preparing the world for They would call it Zion. And this is the most important part of the entire story, Zion. If you want to understand Joseph Smith, and if you want to understand the rest of the Latter-day Saints movement, including modern Mormonism, (suspenseful music) Joseph says that the Lord is telling him that he will give him the and he tells him that it by the Lamanites&quot;. Remember that the Lamanites And so this actually works perfectly because at this time, the U.S. government is ethnically cleansing North America and pushing first Americans west. So there's a lot of territory are budding up against Native Americans. Zion's gonna be somewhere around here. So Joseph and his and they are growing. People love this story. And the concept of Zion transitions idealistic idea to a very solid plan. A new society called the new Jerusalem, the new Jerusalem from And it literally became a plan, like he actually starts We got these digital scans of Joseph Smith's sketches of Zion. (light piano music) He writes in extreme detail on exactly what this city will be. This whole thing was based on perfectly parceled plots, on no more than one square mile of land. Joseph writes that &quot;The from the street to leave room All the houses were to be and there should be farms that aren't too far.&quot; The central streets of this for Jewish history and culture. Zion Street, Jerusalem with the temple in the center of the city. Spoiler alert, this is how Salt Lake City and a lot of cities in But that's for part two. I mean, what this shows is that of God's restored kingdom on And it was gonna be hyper progressive, a new communal society with one another, the and the whole thing would be and governmental structures. A new government run by could talk to his people while he prepared the world for its end. Zion was a vision that at rallying around. Charismatic and creative His followers became deeply dedicated to this mission of establishing Zion, and it becomes the main Joseph Smith's Millennial when the world ends, and the world's ending any day now. (light upbeat music) So the church is growing in Ohio. They still don't know where is gonna be, and meanwhile, and more of these revelations, and he's pushing the further and further from Joseph comes out and says there actually is no heaven and hell, but rather there are All of us will be sorted depending on how obedient how much we accepted Christ There's even a spiritual that you go to after you die, but before you're sorted In order to get to the the celestial kingdom, you have to be married that will seal you to you and Joseph says that more to give him the authority Family is becoming core But the good times don't last. The locals in Ohio and this vision of a new religious society. The flocks of new members to this super well-organized, efficient, unified group of people led who has more and more fringe beliefs. One night Joseph is violently dragged from his home by a mob. He's covered in tar and feathers. They're telling him to leave and he does. Luckily, one of Joseph's missionaries and former scribes Oliver where Zion should be, where the millennial And he comes back and Jackson County, Missouri, 800 miles away. Indeed and just as the Lord said, right on the border with the Laymanites. &quot;This would be Zion&quot;, the place where he is appointed for the gathering of the saints. And now there's a revelation that all of this land in Independence, Missouri should be Buy up as much land as you can. This is Zion. Oh, and it is revealed Independence, Missouri, is right next to the like where Adam and Eve It turns out that Missouri the epicenter for the end of the world, and the Garden of Eden is in Missouri. So Mormons start buying up land and they start moving to Missouri. And they did this quickly. This wasn't theoretical. They thought that the second or just maybe a few years away. Martin Harris, one of the early converts, asserted that quote, &quot;In four years, every religion in the and all would become Mormon, and that the rest of the And then he was so confident that he said that &quot;If it didn't happen, he I mean, they were serious about building Zion in Missouri and quick. Okay, but not so fast. The locals like are not into this. They hear about this swarm of who want to turn their communal society and And now they're arriving by the thousands, which means they will have They start to get scared a takeover of their private of building Zion, and they're They want the Mormons out. So they start sabotaging vandalizing their stores, assaulting Mormon leaders. It gets really violent. And at first, Joseph tells his And once again, the The next five years are and his growing church. They're on the move all over the Midwest, at each stop facing violent resistance from local residents and So Joseph and his followers They start fighting back and it escalates into basically a full blown war. The governor of Missouri issues a literal extermination &quot;The Mormons must be treated as enemies and must be exterminated or driven from the state if necessary It's getting really bad. So they flee once more to who includes a young lawmaker gives them a special and a government that is fit for their unique Zion principles. They call this city Nauvoo, Hebrew for beautiful or beautiful place. (calm music) Okay, so even though the Lord prepared Missouri to the Saints were gonna have to and they feel safe and they start creating Zion. There's a total merger a complete religiously run settlement where Joseph appoints himself as well as the newly strengthened militia. They now have a full army Joseph had been sending about the gospel and invite people to come join his vision of Zion. And one of those people is my who was converted by a and then traveled to the and pregnant wife in And they arrived to Nauvoo, to be more populous than Chicago. And it's in Nauvoo where Joseph says that an angel appeared to him against his will, that he that those wives are sealed to him. His first plural marriage is to a teenager and he goes on to have 40 Many of them were married to other people, but then were sealed What I find striking here you have this meticulous revelation and theology rule here in what's called But polygamy stayed quiet and private. It was one of those revelations and the leaders that he chose. By 1844, the Zion dream It's growing in Illinois, and Joseph decides to run for president. Now, he didn't have a but in his mind and the this was the natural next step. They were establishing Zion, and Zion was going to be But this presidential because now he has seen as a He's too good at gaining new followers. It gets worse when one group who didn't agree with Joseph decide to publish a newspaper in for polygamy and generally his leadership. Joseph has done messing He's become very militant, and he responds by sending his militia to destroy their printing press. He declares martial law, and who had given them this sees this chaos and they're not into it. And they arrest Joseph for Now, this was one of that Joseph Smith had didn't cover them. Some of them were legitimate, some of them were trumped up, but now he's caused a real disruption. He gets locked up in a mob of more than 200 They climb up to the and his brother are, He tries to jump out the window The prophet is dead at 38. Joseph Smith is now a martyr. He died with a Book of defending his vision, his This poured fuel on the But the Latter-day Saints start to realize that if they're gonna build Zion, it's not gonna be in the United States. They need to look further afoot. They need a place far their millennial kingdom So you look far to the west, to Mexico, and the next chapter of the and the establishment of their Zion next to a large salty And that is a story I'll But for now, I want to just tell you my thoughts on Joseph Smith. As someone who spent most of basing my life and my worldview around it, doing this story and looking historical lens has taught me a lot. Joseph Smith created You can't deny that. It was a story about the last days. It was a story full of and modern day revelation from God. It was a story about a chosen people, a utopian society of one heart and one mind, safety, enlightenment. There's a reason why every year, Latter-day Saints go back to where Joseph said he found the plates and they put on this on a stage that's like 10 levels deep with almost a thousand the story of Joseph Smith, their prophet. They reenact him finding the and then they act out the There's a reason why Latter-day &quot;Praise to the Man&quot;, where the prophet who opened who restored the truth to the world. Jesus anointed the prophet I believed this. I believed this well into my twenties. I found deep comfort in it. I found community in that was so different and that was very often mocked for it. The martyrdom and the and his followers became and that it was being just like the prophecies And I was compelled by The problem with getting and the comfort, and the in the last days is that I think that's what a lot the decades with Joseph's story. They ignore, they ignore something that I guess is plain for me to see now, on the other side of this. (light piano music) Brother, I am happy, happy man. I've been for more than a missionary for more than a year now, I can relax. Joseph Smith was a charismatic to tell stories about and about treasure. He had known how to do that Well before he decided he was He found an audience in doing this. He attracted people to him and he used those skills to about Native Americans about heavenly parents, and about the priesthood, this authority that we all the rituals and ordinances that only one church can administer. And eventually, he used these around his vision that and build an army and break When you are a Latter-day Saint, these facts are written off as anti-Mormon literature or persecution. But for me, having left rewiring my brain and my I see them as facts. And frankly, they're not that surprising. This is the same old story of who tells a story of apocalyptic endings to gain followers, to gain power, and then decides that he and then he dies for the cause, leaving a movement that Oftentimes those movements They use shame to keep and they revere their prophet long after that prophet is dead. And yet, what's complicated but feel a deep sense of sadness in Joseph's story. I can't explain it, but these stories are when you believe in These creative stories unlike can be really beautiful. And that is a paradox that There's a lot more to say on this, but I'm gonna save it for where we see what happens and the Latter-day Saints move west to find their vision of Zion, okay. (birds chirping) (light calm music) Okay, well, thanks for watching. And if you're still here, I know that was a bit of there at the end, especially if you are with the church in any way. And there's a lot there. And I know in making this video, I felt a lot of feelings and but I think doing it, telling this story has been and I'm really looking in the comments about what Let me tell you about a couple things. Number one, I'm really grateful over at The Newsroom. The Newsroom is what we call our Patreon. It is a community of people who support the independent journalism Newsroom members get an It's a vlog that is a what it's like to be here in this independent journalism which is a fun experiment. You meet the people behind the scenes, you see our processes, It's a good time. You also get access to my But most importantly, the people who are there are mostly there because they believe in what we're doing and they wanna support, which is awesome. Also, I'm really into maps, which is not new to many of you. I designed a poster that It is called &quot;All Maps Are Wrong&quot;, and it displays like 96 the different ways that you on a flat plane. So that is for sale. I think we sold out, but I think we've ordered a new batch. So that should be for sale. I hope it's for sale, I If you're like a video photo person, we have LUTs and presets, which are just ways to color the way that we color We develop these with a They reflect kind of our look and feel. You can buy those and support At the end of the day, you showing your support, showing your love, watching these videos is the best way that you can support us. So I appreciate you being here, and we're just gonna keep Thanks for being here. Talk to you later, bye. Okay, we did it, dude. (light upbeat music)