Hello everyone! Welcome back to my channel! Today I'm gonna teach you all English Tenses First of all, I will explain the Tense, and If you don't know me, I'm Kate, and I Now let's get started. Let's have a look at 12 English Tenses. The Present Simple I talk to you. The Present Continuous I'm talking to you. The Present Perfect I have talked to you. The Present Perfect Continuous I have been The Past Simple I talked to you. The Past Continuous I was talking to you The Past Perfect Continuous I had been talking The Future Simple I will talk to you. The Future Continuous I will be talking to The Future Perfect I will have talked to you. And the Future Perfect Continuous I will have If you are a beginner, it's better for you Native language, and after you understand video. Now let's start with Present Tenses. The first one is the Present Simple Tense Children study this tense at primary school Native speakers use this tense all the time. For example, I drink coffee. It's used to talk about Habits, facts and The Present continuous. I'm drinking coffee now. This tense is used to describe actions that The Present Perfect I have drunk my coffee. We use it to talk about past events that have The Present Perfect Continuous I have been This Tense is used to describe an action that moment. Ok, now let's have a look at the structure How do we form it? We have the subject + base form of a verb. But in the third person singular, we add an I eat, You go, we run, they watch, he eats, It's important to remember that the verb he is, she is, it is, they are, we are. We use the Present Simple to describe an action For example -I like eating cheese. (I really like it). She usually spends her holidays at the summer Or They often have mistakes in their tests. We use the Present Simple when we talk about A cat has four legs. When we talk about habits. I get up early every day. When we describe things that are generally We have marker words for the Present Simple - Never tense. We use the Present Continuous to talk about of speaking: You are learning English at home I guess you are, if you're watching this The present continuous is made from the present a verb: I am working, You are playing, He Let's have a look at the example. She is spending her holidays at the summer They are having tea now. Also we use the Present Continuous tense to example I am living in Turkey now. This means that the situation is temporary. But if I live here constantly, in this case We also use The Present Continuous Tense to a university. We do not use the continuous tense with state senses: believe know like love hate prefer understand want wish appear feel look seem But sometimes you may hear native speakers tense. For example, I'm loving it. Now we have the Present Perfect tense. The present perfect is formed from the present of a verb. So the structure is the Subject + have\has Past Participle describe something that started in the past - I have lived in Russia all my life. I was born there, I lived there a year ago We also use the present perfect to talk about For example - I have been to Spain five times. I have seen Black Mirror twice talk about past events that have a result I have done my homework. We have marker words for the Present Perfect yet, for. We also use the Present Perfect Tense to describe and have a result, that we can see, hear, I'm so tired, I've been studying. I've been running, so I'm really sweaty. Or I have eaten all the chocolate. They have made a lot of mistakes in their The next tense is the Present Perfect Continuous. The structure of this tense is + ing unfinished actions that started in the past We often use this tense with 'for' and 'since'. She has been spending her holidays at the I have been doing this exercise since morning. When you want to emphasize how long you've Continuous. For example - They have been cleaning their I have another video about Present Perfect a link to this video, If you're interested after this lesson. Let's have a look at the summary of all The Past Simple - I studied at school last It's used to talk about past completed actions. The Past Continuous - I was studying at school that started in the past and were still going The Past Perfect - I had studied at school We use this tense to describe a past event The Past Perfect Continuous - I had been studying to college. With this tense we describe a past event that And now we move on to the Past Simple. It's very easy and simple to understand. And it's very common. The past simple is formed using the verb + The past simple is a verb tense which is used time in the past and the action is completed, yesterday. Basically, there are many verbs with irregular go - went, do-did, swim - swam and many We use the past simple to express the idea past. An example - She spent her holidays at the Or She left her home country in 1995. Another example is - I liked eating chocolate, Let's move on to the Past Continuous. The structure of the Past Continuous is the We use the Past Continuous to describe events past and were still going on when another We were having tea, when my friend came. We use this tense to describe an event that I was playing tennis yesterday from 4 till The Past Continuous Tense is used to describe I went outside Now let's talk about the Past Perfect Tense. The structure is the subject + had + past We use this tense to describe an action that and it's often used with the Past Simple. She had spent all her money, before she came Or The train had left, when we arrived at Another example is I had learned So the Past Perfect tense is used to talk point in the past. Let's move on to the Past Perfect Continuous. We form this tense by using the subject + The Past Perfect and the Past Perfect Continuous speakers. There is no difference in meaning. I had lived there for five years before the for five years before the pandemic started. These sentences have the same meaning. But we use the Past Perfect Continuous when that continued up to a certain time. An example - I had been doing the exercise Or She had been playing tennis for three hours Another example - They had been cleaning their Let's have a look at all Future Tenses. If you're still watching this video, you're I'm so proud of you. We use Future Tenses when we talk about events The Future Simple - I will read this book We use it to describe Events that we expect The Future Continuous - I will be reading We use it to talk about actions that will The Future Perfect - I will have read this We use this tense to describe an event that in the future. The Future Perfect Continuous -I will have We use this tense to talk about an event that The Future Simple is a very simple way to The structure of this tense is the Subject+will+base For example -She will spend her holidays at We can use this tense to give promises: I I will help you to make your project. We can use the Future Simple to talk about I think we will go to Spain next year. Another example - They will have no mistakes This is a conditional sentence, and I have is right here. The next tense is the Future Continuous. The structure is the subject + will be + verb This tense is used to talk about events that future. For example -I will be playing tennis tomorrow Another example -They will be having tea, Or - I will be filming my new video next Monday (And this is true, I love filming videos in We also have the Future Perfect Tense. The structure is the subject + will have + It's used to talk about future events that the future. I will have done this task by 3 pm tomorrow. (3 pm is the certain moment in the future.) She will have spent all her money before she He will have read this book before I need And finally, the Future Perfect Continuous. The structure is the subject+will have been+verb+ing. We use this tense to describe events that the future. For example, She will have been playing tennis I will have been doing this task for an hour They will have been working here for five And it's important to remember that we do tense. Thank you for watching this video, I hope English tenses. Please don't forget to subscribe to my channel it will help other learners to see the video. I love you guys, bye bye!