I'm excited about what comes next. It's a future that will be made by all of us. Hey, everyone, and welcome to Connect. Last year, a future where you can be present together where you can teleport where your devices just get out of the way and you can focus on and the experiences you're having. I think that this is some of the most It's going to open up opportunities We believe in this vision so deeply that we renamed our whole company And we're in a moment now when a lot of the technologies are starting to take off. There are more people in VR more creators building worlds, more developers building apps, more brands getting into virtual goods, and more companies This is great to see. It's a sign I know a lot of you You're already living it, building new worlds, hanging out in VR, and we've been with you since the start. Look at what we've announced at Connect The first modern VR device. The first standalone headset. The first developers The first hands in virtual reality. And today, So, this one is for you, the believers, the people who always thought that but who know you have to build it with your bare hands. The people who'd rather be early We've got something and I think But before we get to that, let's take a look at the progress To do that, here's Boz, -Hey, Boz. Yeah. Now, Quest 2... Let's talk about the progress Quest 2 is the first And it's opened up a lot of opportunities Yeah. The ecosystem is growing nicely. About one in three apps in the Quest Store 33 titles have made and that's up from 22 just this February. The number of apps making over $5 million This is what it looks like Yeah, and it shows there's real demand Those experiences with the new things Developers have been pushing using tools like hand tracking Yeah, and the creativity that you're all As the platform grows, we're focused on making it and philosophically, we're focused on This means giving developers options So people can stream apps Some of the best apps on Quest 2 today started in our App Lab, Great titles like Smash Drums, We expect the opportunities here as more devices come on the market And we're gonna keep pushing to make the next computing platform In terms of beyond games, a lot of is around social experiences. This has been a big change. At first glance, is a fundamentally Something you do on your own, But we've never looked at it that way. A decade ago, we believed it would be It's why we got into it. When we started working on this, social experiences would become And that's coming true. Today, the top apps in the Quest Store and this is the same thing that we've seen A lot of the most compelling come when you build things That's the whole reason This has been the story Whether that's email and desktop, or video calls and the phone. Every technology platform But what I value most is how they keep me And I think this will be especially true because they deliver that sensation that you're actually That's what's so powerful compared to everything else Every other computing platform And now we have the chance to change that. For the first time, we can build and how we actually experience the world. That's because you feel like you're in it, and should be able to teleport anywhere and bring your stuff with you. It should be less siloed and fundamentally more about We have Vishal here -Hey. You guys take it from here. -See ya, Mark. Hey, Vishal. Hey, Boz. Yeah, this social shift has been one of the biggest changes we've seen When Quest 2 first launched, the vast majority of time spent in VR Today, the majority of time spent And the most popular apps Apps like VR Chat for people to spend time That's right. And people are doing Playing games, showing up as avatars and maybe who they wanna be. There are so many new things to do beyond the limitations This social shift is happening everywhere. YouTube VR is a great example. It's one of the most popular apps and the YouTube team's working to make it So in the future, you can watch and share YouTube videos, Watch videos together, or experience something completely new. Like an underwater manta ray adventure When you look at the Internet, there's a big move We're seeing the impulse Absolutely. Some of the best experiences are hanging out with your friends or recording a podcast on Rooftop 42. There are worlds to make music together, worlds to roast marshmallows in, All sorts of people from first-time creators And today, we're announcing to bring through experiences in the metaverse. Starting next year, around The Office, Universal Monsters, DreamWorks, Blumhouse, Fans will be able to engage at Universal Studios theme parks Last but not least, There are so many worlds out there to see. More than we could ever show What's more important and the feeling you get That's why we're excited as a next-generation social platform It always comes back And if we really want we need to open these worlds They can't be limited to VR. Yeah, the metaverse should be accessible and you should be able That's why we're developing so that you can access it If you're watching a comedy show, and they can join without a headset It's just more fun Making these virtual worlds takes their ability to connect people This will be the first way a lot of people around the world For sure. And while the web it opens it to an entirely new population Absolutely. We want everyone to be able but it'll be a while before It's a huge step to help people Especially when we think about creators. For people and businesses this means your potential audience Right now, that only VR users can access. That's about to change. And when you see something amazing you'll be able to capture and share it, This is actually a place We have deep ecosystems for creators to connect with audiences and virtual worlds where great content can be made. We're now testing a way and easily share it a very early connection And there'll be a lot more to come. We're also connecting with great builders in Horizon Worlds So keep your eyes on the feed for that. So, the ways people can experience but the tools you need We've got some great news This is another big expansion It used to be that Now we're seeing incredible worlds being built by everyday users a game and world-building platform We're expanding the creative toolkit You'll be able to use TypeScript, to make more dynamic We're making it so you can import and build parts of your world like Maya, Blender, These are high-quality tools One of the main benefits is the graphics quality they produce. It'll take a while but the result will be It's one of the most important pieces. We started with simple graphics and we're doing a ton of work how Horizon will look and feel The metaverse needs to feel inspiring. There's some really awesome stuff We're working with Epic Games from the Sketchfab library Our ultimate goal is for the metaverse to feel just like any other So the virtual spaces you build and share don't always need to be huge worlds And one thing we're thinking about a lot Right. There are public spaces but it's just as important to think about Your home in the metaverse no matter what device you're using, should be a social space no matter what devices they're using. You should feel as you do in your home That's right. And this means nobody You're in control of who stays and leaves, and what's said in these spaces But you can also share them if you want. Here's what this personal space looks like So, ideally, it's like the physical world. Your personal space This is all great stuff. Thanks, Vishal. And I can't wait to see what's next. The social platform of VR At the other end of the spectrum, you have the most established part Let's talk about the incredible things Here's Melissa Brown, -Hi, Melissa. And hi to everyone joining us for Connect. This part of the VR ecosystem It feels like every week, developers ship Titles like Little Cities, GOLF+ which look beautiful If you want an example take a look at from Skydance Interactive. It's now surpassed $50 million in revenue nearly double its revenue Or look at Zenith The Last City It took only 24 hours for it to make its first million And Resident Evil 4, from Capcom and Armature Studios, Blade &amp; Sorcery: Nomad from WarpFrog A number of other devs have also done so This kind of velocity about the future for VR developers. To date, $1.5 billion has been spent And it's hard to believe when you see but there's so many more still to come. Today we're gonna share What are you excited about, Melissa? How about we start with a trailer from the latest team Your past has caught up with you. Why did you stop selling weapons, Tony? -You can't change the past. All systems back online. Look alive out there, Stark. The world needs you, Tony. The world needs Iron Man. Marvel's Iron Man VR has been We've been fans since it launched, for the talented teams to bring the game to Meta Quest 2 along with our partners at Sony Interactive Entertainment Next is the multiplayer phenomenon, which is evolving in a big way With the debut of Population: One Sandbox, a robust, user-generated map creator, you can take the action anywhere, A moon base, a Viking village, If you're not a creator, no worries, you can discover and play through new or featured community maps The team at BigBox VR is excited to bring That looks awesome, Yes. Calling all Crewmates. You know you've been waiting ever since it was announced Well, wait no longer. InnerSloth, Robot Teddy, and Schell Games on Meta Quest 2 on November 10th, and preorders open today. Soon, you'll be betraying friends This next title is also fun, It's time to check the itinerary Now, we promised folks the next installment in would be out later this year. Let's take a look Chapter 2: Retribution. Well, look at you, Tourist. The living gettin' more desperate. Guess you ain't the only one Gonna take nothing short of a miracle Where ever the Tourist goes, It's two years in the making, and new faces, places, as you head towards a final showdown All right. And we have Right. Our friends at Skydance Here's your first sneak peek. This is only possible because of It's a testament and the people you've delighted You continue to push the boundaries and you show us that When we launched we could not have imagined we'd have games like Red Matter 2 running on a mobile chipset, The Passthrough modes in apps showed us and we're so excited to see the way that you did with VR. Totally. And the best experiences also incorporate which brings a really different dimension That's been the key to fitness apps, some of the best experiences Developers have hit of a physical workout to make something completely new, Come on. Lift that leg. Users globally return to Quest 2 And VR fitness apps can be just as intense They're great or want to get in a quick session Some of the stories coming out of One of my favorites is Linda, When my son came home with a Quest, I fell in love with it When I first opened the app, the scenery is just so beautiful. You are just moving to the music. I was having fun. I was hooked. Dodging those lasers and feeling good. Moving with a purpose Deliberate fitness apps I think it's because they're fun, and you have the support cheering each other on. There are a lot of VR titles such as Les Mills Bodycombat, And they're always getting better, bringing on new instructors, Speaking of which, at the end of this month, to better activate your core That's right. People are going to be Now, we've got one more fitness experience Get your jump shot ready, because Gym Class is coming -Let's go! Shoot. -Damn! Let's run it back. My jump shot is most definitely not ready, In fact, I think I've tried And one thing you'll learn you're gonna work up a sweat. So to help people stay active while keeping their headsets clean, later this month, we're releasing Available online in the Meta Store This is our fitness accessory bundle with a wipeable facial interface, and adjustable knuckle straps to provide the perfect combination People have also been building like extension grips and custom handles. It's great to see and this is just the beginning. As part of the Made for Meta program, we're working with leading hardware makers to bring more accessories to Quest, Yes. There's more we can do to unlock the power of the platform This year, we shipped one of the features fitness tracking and the Health app on iOS. We've seen how important these kinds of And we know fitness is a space So this fall, for select developers. It lets people share like custom stats or new levels And in case you're the kind of person next year, we're also releasing a new way to share your fitness progress so they can support you along the way. Sweet! Do you think Real VR Fishing Yeah, good luck with that. But it's so exciting to watch When you can tie physical interaction the possibilities are really endless. They extend way beyond fitness. -It sure is. Thanks, Melissa. As you've seen so far, You can hang out with friends, sometimes you can do all three at once. But you can also get work done. And while games, social and fitness work is really that we wanna unlock If we're talking about work, -Hey, Mark. You know, Like a lot of companies, we're planning for a future But as in-person work ramps up, we want everyone to have the ability even if they're not physically there. And there are definitely things that distributed teams No doubt. There are parts that you just can't replace It's true for hanging out And it's true for work. Yeah. The feeling of presence can already be better than video chat. The clearest benefit But it's also great for creative work Companies are already discovering that It's amazing what's already being done. For example, companies are using VR At Logitech, they used ShapesXR, to explore different kinds of layouts and different designs together, This is where VR just lets you do things It's a whole new kind of creative tool. Puma and New Balance using Gravity Sketch, one of my favorite Novartis uses Nanome, a VR molecular design in their drug-discovery workflow. And ITC, a part of the United Nations, are running trainings and workshops a virtual office space on Quest 2. You can really collaborate at a distance And there's a lot more that we can do to unlock this We build Horizon Workrooms as a first step And it feels more like being there You see more of people's body language, and the spatial audio gives you a sense of You can have side conversations or gesture It's hard to fully wrap your head We've been holding team meetings and it's amazing There's something magical about creating Once you've experienced it, We're continuing to improve Starting early next year, you'll be able to join Workrooms We're also introducing breakout groups, so your team can shift into smaller discussions in the same room. And with sticky notes for whiteboarding, you can have group discussions in ways that We're also working on a new feature to import and review 3D models which is gonna be really helpful and other kinds of creative work. We want this to be It's about the beginning of That's why we're launching So this is where you can focus One of the best things about VR that go beyond what's possible and that goes for productivity setups too. You have instant access that's set up just how you want, You might only have a 13-inch laptop but in your virtual office, This is great at home or at work. Eventually, the Quest could be That'll be awesome. We're still early in the shift but the way people can collaborate shows that there's an opportunity designed from the ground up as well as playing games and hanging out. All right, Boz. It's definitely time. -Take it from here, Mark. All right. So this is an important moment. Virtual reality Millions of people use it to play games, Everyone from the newest indie developers are getting into this space. But for virtual reality we need to get to the point who buy new PCs each year for work can do some or all of their work At Meta, we're focused on building that will help Whether that's in virtual reality, or the social presence layer across both. What if you could as if you were right there together, What if you have that perfect work setup integrated right into What if you could overlay your work right on top of the physical world? This device would help you be So, to deliver this, and tech that seamlessly works You can interact with people around you, and flow between states effortlessly. You'd need something comfortable Technology that lets you do things and go far beyond And you'd need to be able React to things naturally, show up in a way I think this is one of the most exciting building technology of really being present with people, So, we've taken and designed an all-new headset This is Meta Quest Pro. Quest Pro is the first built to expand what's possible in VR. It takes what people love about Quest 2 and adds a bunch of new technologies It's made It delivers more expression than any other technology. With mixed reality built in, it lets you do things that It's all in a beautiful design So whether you're looking or if you just want the very best Quest Pro sets the standard. So, to get into the details, who leads our Quest product team. And since this is a big day, This is the new Quest Pro When you put on your headset this is where you'll be. -Hey, Angela. You get to show everyone what was Finally. I am so thrilled We have completely re-imagined for productivity, Quest Pro is our sleekest form factor yet. With a super-thin set of lenses and our first-ever curved-cell battery to give it a perfect balance. Yeah, it feels great Right! We wanted to ensure from the physical world to the virtual. So our new headset design lets you see the physical room you're in. You can quickly jot down a note, or just be aware But you can also use for a more immersive experience We've also redesigned to make it better The new pancake lenses and let us make the display 40% thinner The new lenses aren't just thinner. They also put more pixels in the center, which makes reading text Yeah, and the LCD displays have And thanks to 75% more contrast, that just make VR even more engaging. This is also our first device to use that we worked on with Qualcomm. It's optimized for VR, so Quest Pro runs at 50% more power which gets And this is the first new chip And don't forget, Yeah, the controllers are now which is a bit ridiculous. We've re-engineered them and also work a bit more like Yeah, the new sensors all on their own So you can get And they include our new TruTouch Haptics, which give a wider and more precise range When picked up, and natural in your hands You can even add a stylus tip turning them into tools You can try this or you just flip them around and write It's a good example of how Like much better collaborative Speaking of meetings, how to help you keep the headset charged the moment you get an incoming call, So we're including that fits great on your workspace and keeps both the headset and controllers Another key technology for enabling is mixed reality, where we have to account for both the physical and digital elements Yeah, being able to blend the world and bring all the creative to your physical surroundings, Mixed reality is going to power you can have with Quest Pro. It's the next major step for VR, and an important milestone We began the journey to mixed reality our family of AI-powered tools that incorporate the physical world. We built mixed reality to make it easy for developers But these experiences are so compelling that's designed from the ground up Absolutely. Quest Pro uses that capture and an additional RGB camera along with a depth system and work with it. You can see the people around you, objects in your room This is gonna unlock And this is just the beginning As more developers explore you're going to see entirely new Definitely. Another big part of Quest Pro You can see here how people's avatars This makes your shared social experiences It's powered by our Movement SDK, What're you doing? I'm just eating toast. I'm really hungry. Movement SDK enables avatars using Quest Pro's inward-facing cameras. And this is really important When we communicate, all our non-verbal are often even more important And the way we connect virtually Think about the little things you pick up Like the moment that they begin or when they raise their eyebrow Your avatar should be able to express Today, our avatars rely on to help create a sense of social presence. But facial expressions and body language for remote meetings and This is another reason why Quest Pro Including for work. More people work in distributed teams now. And being able to and feel like you're really together We spoke a bit before about how Workrooms on Quest 2 It's going to be even more powerful can show more of their facial expressions Yeah, one of the challenges is how to bring people together If a few people are in a conference room the experience is just So, we're building a better way using everything Quest Pro And we call it Magic Room. It lets you meet in mixed reality You can use a whiteboard, Everyone is present whether they're in full-VR We think that this will help And we're hoping to ship this next year. Now, these are just some of the things This is a high-end device and for people who want the best We're really excited and it's available for pre-order and it ships on October 25th. Now, we built Quest Pro to be the best device we could make and our hope is to use this product so we can get it into our consumer devices But what you can see here is the start of a whole new way This will go beyond VR, because people work on and you should be able to collaborate no matter where they are We've updated Workrooms so you can join a virtual office and still get some of that feeling It's also going to work Workplace and Portal, to create a unified digital office that we think And we're not the only ones who are optimistic Over the last year, we've been working with dozens of partners for people who are looking to At Connect last year, we spoke about the potential and next year, Autodesk is updating to take advantage of the new possibilities And Adobe is also working Next year, for professional 3D creators, from collaborative design reviews using Quest Pro's controllers. And there's one more partnership that is gonna be really important Yeah. I know you've got a special guest so I'll leave you to it. Have fun. All right. Yeah. Microsoft has been at the heart of and they are one of the many companies that are now building And as Quest Pro I'm really excited So, to talk more about this, I'm here with Microsoft's Hi, Satya. Hi, Mark. It's great to be here with you, Thanks. I'm glad we can finally share this Now, we knew early on that we wanted this to be and working with Microsoft Do you wanna share more Sure. As you said, at Microsoft, we're incredibly excited and how digital and physical worlds and transforming everything from telehealth and, of course, the way we do work. We are taking an approach to ensure on all their favorite devices, and that's why I'm so thrilled and how we are bringing together the power of many of with the new VR devices you're announcing. So, the main reason is that we think that VR can be and with the Quest Pro, we wanna bring more of that where Microsoft already has some incredibly successful products -So, why don't we start there? Microsoft Teams is the most ubiquitous and it's becoming essential meet, call, chat, And so we're clearly going through and every organization today is looking for new ways to reconnect, at home, in the office, That's why we are bringing Microsoft Teams in order to give people You can connect, share, collaborate And, in the future, you'll be able to use in immersive experiences Just think about how powerful or even Teams meetups can be Another piece of this is that we're working on So people will be able to join and we think that this kind of will be the foundation But this goes beyond Teams. Another big piece of your work platform That's absolutely right. how to bring the power of Microsoft 365 to really help drive productivity and enable you to create, communicate So, with Microsoft 365 coming to Quest, you'll be able to interact with content whether it's Word, giving you even more flexibility And with Windows 365 coming to Quest, you'll have a new way to securely stream including all the personalized apps, with the full power of Windows So this is gonna be great for anyone who wants to build out You'll have a great a way to join Teams meetings in Workrooms, and you'll have the whole And for bigger companies who want to we've also got some great news. Yes, absolutely. Being able to manage and secure is absolutely crucial for any business, and that's just as true for a VR headset Azure Active Directory will support Meta Quest This means companies can be confident they expect from PCs and mobile devices Now, there's one final aspect of and that's gaming. That's right, Mark. When you step back, one thing we have learned can help create In fact, many people are already playing like Flight Simulator and Minecraft and with X Cloud Gaming, you can stream allowing you to connect with gamers whether they're right next to you And we are partnering You'll be able to play 2D games with your Xbox controller It's early days, Who knows, the next time we talk, maybe we'll be playing I'm down for that. All right. Thanks so much and thanks for the partnership. Thank you, Mark. And there's another element that we wanna talk about today that's gonna play a big part Accenture has spent the past few years They've been rolling out new technologies, to accelerate this shift. And they're helping other businesses In fact, they work with in the Fortune Global 500, so they have a pretty big impact And now, is going to join me -Hey, Julie. It's great to be here. It's great to have you. Accenture is one of the world's and you've been growing rapidly It's been a transformative period for us. We now have more than 700,000 people Even prior to the pandemic, we were probably with a truly remote workforce, and we saw the potential for So, in 2019, to imagine a virtual space Obviously, this became and since then, and we have transformed welcoming over 150,000 people that we call the Nth Floor, which we believe is the largest This provides a more dynamic immersion and, our research shows, People retain when it's within an immersive experience. Watching what you've been doing We think working in the metaverse that aren't possible and bringing together hardware, software Absolutely, Mark. We believe that the metaverse it will also profoundly change reinventing how you interact what products and services you offer, how you make and distribute them, and how you engage with your people, from employee onboarding and training to collaboration and VR will play a huge role. Yeah. VR has been especially useful and that's gonna get even better We're excited to work with you and to talk about We're excited too. After what we've learned, we know there's a huge opportunity Now we'll be partnering to help businesses create new experiences This is a perfect trifecta. The advances in Meta's coupled with the integration and Accenture's unmatched expertise, to create practical, real-world uses This will be game-changing for scaling The future of work is starting now. Yeah. We want our devices to buy, deploy and use. Next year, which is currently in beta. It's a subscription bundle for Quest 2, that includes a suite of features device and application management, Quest for Business like we just announced with Microsoft, It's gonna be priced and we'll be sharing more details This is exactly to make the metaverse and VR for work As one of the largest users and Quest 2 headsets for business, we've seen firsthand the impact on how they can change and we're looking forward the many ways This collaboration is a very exciting to bring the future to life for And this is just the start. This has the potential for so many enterprises. Thanks so much for joining us, Julie. Thanks, Mark. We've spoken a lot about how Quest Pro But that's far from the only thing And we can't wait to see developers will be able to build Take Beat Saber. It's already one of the most popular And now imagine what it will be like into a Beat Saber arena. So the Beat Games team Look out, Beat Saber! Now, this gives you a glimpse And because we want everyone to be able not just professional developers, we're working on creator tools as well. Hundreds of thousands of creators to build AR effects They have years of experience which is a core part of the metaverse. So starting today, to build interactive 3D objects and begin testing them in mixed reality With virtual worlds becoming accessible with Quest Pro and with the future of work we have a lot to build Now, to find out we're gonna need to shift gears. So if you're joining us in VR, Hey. We're here together in Horizon, and this is the first time And this is a preview They're so much more expressive and they have Now, it's a lot of work to build AI to autogenerate these and then give everyone the tools that your avatar feels like your own. But I'm excited to start rolling these out later next year, on phones, So, while I'm excited we are also seeing building great experiences with So now let's meet up with Aigerim to discuss the latest on our avatars -Hey, Aigerim. Hey, wanna update everyone Yes, we have Our first milestone is making it so you could use your avatar The new Meta Accounts Center, it already allows you So you could show up however you want. And if you have one avatar you can now easily sync it Nice. All right, let's talk a bit more that we're building for the apps. You can already see avatars showing up across Instagram, Facebook, Messenger, And we're working on bringing them and to more places, for example Reels. We want you to be able to use avatars And we're also bringing avatars That's right. if you want, It's going to add Yeah, I think avatars and video chat between video on and video off. You can still express yourself and react, So, it's kind of like Yeah, we're working on this now, And in virtual reality, so your avatar moves and sounds like you. And now we wanna bring that using cameras and microphones. So, if you wink at your phone, Making your avatar work truly creates continuity You should be able to take your avatar Absolutely. There are already that support Meta avatars. And we're building partnerships, so you can use your avatar And in fact, today, that will let you show up So, to make this easier, we're extending the Meta Avatar's SDK And I'm also excited to share that will soon support Unreal Engine These expansions will make it a lot easier for more developers to start building Yes, we're testing this and plan to release this So, right now, a lot of developers since the tools that you can import Over the next year or two, as all these new tools and styles and as the hundreds of people keep improving the system, I just think that more and more developers are going to find building will offer a much simpler And speaking of making it easy we have some news The Avatars Store is launching in VR So, you'll be able to shop We're joining with a bunch of partners You're gonna start seeing a lot more These integrations, And later this year, for new outfit releases from Netflix. Giving people more ways to express will help kick-start the marketplace So, if you buy a sweater, no matter what app you're using. So we're gonna see experimenting with this. And beyond clothes, we're also improving across the whole family of apps. Mark, I'm sure you've seen we introduced earlier this year. As well as cochlear implants, Yeah, and we have some big improvements With more options for body types, as well as shaders There's one more feature coming soon that's probably the most requested feature Legs. Legs! I know you've been waiting for this. I think But, seriously, legs are hard. Which is why other virtual reality systems And the perceptual science behind this We discovered early on that your brain is a lot more willing as long as it's accurately positioned. But if it's rendered in the wrong place, and it breaks the whole feeling So, that's why we started off but not your whole arms. Yeah, if the system showed it would feel like my arm was broken. Yeah, but as we got better at tracking then we can add your whole arms to the avatar stack And now we're doing the same with legs. And now we're getting ready to launch Yeah, so, with standalone understanding your leg position because of occlusion. So if your legs are under a desk, then your headset can't see them directly to predict your whole body position. And this really needs to work reliably, Yeah, so, that's why we're gonna We're gonna keep bringing them as we improve our technology stack. And we will bring new tech custom avatar actions and behaviors That's coming next year, too. And I'm looking forward to seeing All right, We've a lot to do. Great. See ya. Avatars are gonna be central And this is a unique opportunity at the intersection of expression, With Horizon Worlds and Workrooms, early glimpses of what Check out some of the things Creators are building social spaces, the Stu, a hip hop recording studio, NOPE World, and a whole lot more. And as this social-first platform we're thinking about the virtual space When you first put on your VR headset you're gonna land Somewhere that you can design invite your friends to hang out, or just relax and use it All right, With Quest Pro, our next-generation we're making good progress on two of the most powerful windows Virtual reality for full immersion, and mixed reality Looking towards the future, the last set of experiences is augmented reality, where you see digital objects The fundamental technologies to build full-augmented-reality glasses Waveguide displays, I've seen a lot of these pieces I think that this is some of the most It's gonna be neat to see it come together Other pieces are coming along nicely, too, that's already being used by creators that more than 750 million people And developers a lot more mixed-reality experiences Now, one thing that makes AR so hard is that the form factor needs to be around other people And that's different Glasses need to be relatively small So, we're approaching building from two different angles. The first is building on all the technology we need and then working to fit it The second approach and working to fit more And we took our first step forward when we partnered with Essilor Luxottica Ray-Ban Stories You can take photos and videos, listen to music, or even take phone calls. But what sets them apart is the design of these glasses Now, this is just the first product And to talk more about what's coming, the Chief Wearables Officer Hey, Rocco, great to see you again. Great to be back, Mark. Ray-Ban Stories With Meta, we introduced some beautiful And we keep launching new software updates Soon, we are launching the ability with your existing phone number. So you can stay connected We are also rolling out so you can listen to music You can tap and hold on And if you want to hear something else, and Spotify will recommend something new. -And you also keep launching new designs. We have added more style, Including transition lenses that go from clear to dark in seconds. So, this is the first product but we've got bigger plans. Well, we are working together to build a portal to the metaverse. It's an exciting multi-year project. And this is different from what We view our partnership with Meta Together, we will help bring augmented reality to life All right, thanks, Rocco. A lot of the underlying technology is still in the research phase. But we have working demos of this stuff, And it wouldn't be Connect So let's start with that we think is gonna be really important I've talked a lot about neural interfaces and we now have a working demo with motor neuron signals. I'll not show you the headset this year, but here's what I'm seeing Just the gentlest flick of my thumb and with another quick movement, Or I can even take a photo. Now the goal here higher bandwidth, and a lot more natural. All right. So to close us out today, let's check in with Michael -and what still needs to get solved. Hey! The future that is one that will change the world every bit as much Yeah, and a big part of this is gonna be Like the neural interface EMG demo That's right. And there's an important lesson What we saw there was that the Graphical User Interface, was what defined the user experience Our challenge is that for glasses that have to work in the course of the day, In addition to new interfaces, that can sense and reconstruct understand the context and also help you get things done, when you have these digital capabilities -And this is really the job for AI. In the long run, to interact with the metaverse Thanks to the glasses, and will use that to help you proactively. Ideally, so seamlessly Now, combine that which uses the neuro-muscular signals and you have an intuitive, This will be the first And a big part of that is that you won't have to learn Instead, the machine will learn In neuroscience, And what that means to all of us is that by combining machine learning this future interface to adapt to their unique differences in physiologies, sizes, Here, you can see two people They're both using the same gesture, but because no two people they do it in slightly different ways. The neural interface at understanding each person. The potential for co-adaptation into some truly novel territory. Here, the algorithm how to respond to the EMG signals with only the slightest of hand movements. The system is recognizing the actions by decoding those signals at their wrist and translating them And now, the person is able to communicate with almost no hand movement. This is a genuine transformation in the way we interact Yeah, this has the potential to redefine And if you think about that came with the mouse this should be in speed and the bandwidth This is one of the wildest projects, These future interfaces An example that I love is Carnegie Mellon University's to help the visually impaired. Our Project Aria research glasses so CMU used them to build phone maps that enabled the visually impaired where GPS signals often don't reach. Here's a look at how this works. For years, I've gotten around with I love and depend on her dearly, but a guide dog Juice bar is on your right. NavCog can change that. There is a ramp. 140 feet. What we're working on that we developed We teamed up with Reality Labs and Meta, and started using to build a 3D map The maps help the user figure out without having to rely so heavily This is huge, NavCog gives me the freedom You have arrived. It really helps me regain my independence. All right. when you're building systems how we experience the world, it opens up all of these new avenues Because it turns out that the things like being able to sense the world, and understand the context that's the same thing you need Macular degeneration runs in my family. So I may actually be using the fruits Helping the hearing impaired And that's another thing I didn't set out to build glasses but it does seem to be There's so much more that Like the ability to right-click to find out information about it, control our devices without looking down, and get proactive assistance We will one day be using this interface But more easily, plus a ton of things that we'll consider indispensable. Yeah, so one example is being able to and this is central to the metaverse. But it's hard to build 3D objects It's much quicker and easier Today, there's no easy way to do that. So we're researching to solve that problem. The first one uses machine learning-based to reconstruct from multiple 2D images This method can reproduce All right. So, we're gonna scan Teddy, not just because he's super-cute, but also because he's got for what we're trying to replicate. So here's how it works: and that's about it. This takes some processing time, so we got it ready beforehand The level of detail in this is impressive. You can kinda see like each individual strand of its hair. And you can even see through It's pretty awesome. Yeah, it's just a beautiful reproduction. The second technology So, here we used a different technique to scan an object into its digital twin and then bring into And it responds dynamically and when you throw it in the air, or bounce it off the ground, it'll respond the same way So we use Spark to put the virtual object They're almost identical. Neither approach is real time yet, But the goal is to let you a part of your virtual world. Of course, the most interesting are other people, in the form of avatars. And as you mentioned earlier, but one thing I know for sure is that avatars that are would be the most powerful that has ever existed. They would create genuine social presence at a gut level, and would span personal distances in a way This is one reason we believe by far the most social computing platform. It's fundamentally about people We're gonna be able to teleport anywhere no matter how far apart we physically are. And I think that this is And you're right. One of the keys that will unlock this So, last year, we showed you And what sets Codec Avatars apart that you might have seen, So that means that they're not limited This is an avatar with no need to render or export video. So it can photo-realistically reproduce rather than just generic characters Of course, We're already thinking about and tying your avatar But beyond privacy, we've continued to develop For example, it's now possible to change Cool as that is, it's the face, expressions, eye contact, slight motions, We're putting a lot of research truer to our physical forms. Mark, do you wanna show us Yeah, definitely. You know, last year during our visit I saw the second generation So these second-generation avatars They're much closer in a setting like a work meeting. So, I made one of myself. Now, we've made them Not just simple things But also the non-verbal cues to communicate with each other Things like raising an eyebrow, or scrunching my nose. These avatars are way better that define physical interactions. They're just much more natural. And being able to control adds another dimension of life to them. When we move the light around, reflects on my skin, Now, these are awesome, but they also take So we're working on something And we made a lot of progress So here's Autumn from our RL labs team doing a demo of the process These are much quicker and easier to make. All you need for the scan is your phone, and you can pretty much do this anywhere She scans her face from different angles with a neutral expression then spends another minute and a half And that's really all there is to it. Hi, guys. My 3D avatar It just took a few hours to generate and the team's working on making Now, obviously, this isn't with the 2.0 Codec Avatars. However, they're still We're putting a whole lot of effort so anyone can easily create their own high-quality realistic avatar All right. Thanks, Autumn. This is some of the most inspiring stuff So it's great that we're at the stage now where the research foundations are really starting to show up For sure. There's still plenty left to do, and everything we've just talked about It may or may not end up in our products, but it's definitely a glimpse Thanks, Mark. All right. Last year, And this year, on the path to get there. What we shared today is the first move towards the 200 million people one day working in the metaverse. We're still early in this journey. The products that we showed today are part of a roadmap Quest for consumers, Quest Pro for work, and people who want the best VR experience and Ray-Ban Stories for smart glasses. And there are gonna be more releases in the years to come, as well as built for augmented reality This is an exciting time We're investing in this because we believe And we wanna bring and like-minded partners together We're at the beginning Major shifts like this But we're starting to see one now, and it's gonna shape how people connect I wanna discuss two values that you can expect us The first is putting people We believe that has the potential than anything that's come before, That's why is about improving Building out Horizon as prioritizing hardware that supports creating new ways for people to meet designing new avatars These are things that you prioritize if you're focused So, while the underlying technology the reason that we're in this is because it can bring you closer This is our company's DNA. It's in every service we build. Your friends on Facebook, your family on WhatsApp. It's always about people. And that's how The second value is openness. In every generation of computing, there's been an open ecosystem There was Windows and Mac, then Android and iOS. Closed ecosystems to create unique experiences and lock-in. Although most of that value ends up Open ecosystems create value and grow developers having lots of choices, and ultimately, more people sharing An interesting thing is that different models It's not predetermined which will be But as someone who has experience I strongly believe that built by is going to be better for everyone. As you can see today, from all of the different partners I see our role as not just but making sure that in this next generation of the Internet. Philosophically, we've always been about We'd rather show the progress we're making and talk about the challenges We don't have all the answers, We're all on this journey together. So if you care about technology if you wanna help build a world that haven't been possible before, if you believe in a future and be more present, then I hope that So thank you and we'll see you again soon.