Hurry up, hurry up, sell freshly baked cigarettes , cigarettes . Next month, you will be driving by yourself. Stop being fussy. Have you memorized all the essentials? I understand. Okay, please give me attention after the first and second levels. Yes, Sanshan is in charge of Sitigou. I'm about to start the last battle. Hey, the situation is very chaotic now. We 've reached the provincial capital. I'll accompany him to the Department of Health. You and your aunt are in contact. Do you know? I know, Dad, not yet. What's the news about your sister? The college said that he hasn't gone to class for two months. I don't know what he's thinking. After all the hard work of sending him to medical school , did he make him skip classes? Next time I meet him, he must be taught a lesson. He's not a father. Don't say that. When Lingling grows up, just let him go. He 's such a bad person all by himself. I still want Spring Tea. Brother Chen. Brother, this , this, this, this, this, this, this. Why are you not careful? All the things are here. Father has been busy in military training recently and can only bring these out. Dad , let's get on the train. Okay , ah, ah, what's going on? There shouldn't be a train coming into the station. You two, go and stop them. It's okay, Master. How come there are other trains coming into the station at this point? Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up , hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up , the rest of you follow me Did you come here to pry open the door ? What should I say when I go back this time ? Hey, my mother is so stupid. She told me to pretend to be deaf for a long time, right? Hey, what are you doing? Your dad, are you okay? It's okay. Oh, the little lady is quite bright. Hey, you are helping others. Look, am I not you? Damn it, my friend Penglan Gejin is a member of the same family. My brother is just a jujube. Why should I ask you to take more care of your third brother Zhou Qinlu ? Let's go for a walk . This rubbish dump is as high as a mountain. It stinks to the sky. I don't know how many rats have been born . It's not like this world doesn't make rat holes . ? When there is a famine, there are still people in our village digging rat holes in search of food. Brother, please say hello. Don't worry. I have some ideas . I'm going to withdraw the goods. This brother just really did it. Yes, thank you. You're welcome. Sister, I'm here . Du Dashan. Thank you , brother Du. Sister, I told you , dad, why are you going? Look after your brother and there are others. Don't talk to ungrateful men. I 'm sorry. Brother Du, my dad is here. People are fine like this. My old man is like this too. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha I don't know. I 'm quite homesick too . Look at the weather. It's sunny, it's windy and thundery, it's cloudy and rainy, I've been wet for a while and it's still raining. Hey , you brought an umbrella. No master has brought one. Look, your hands are bare. Look, mom has been wearing that bracelet for many years. I'll give it to you when we get to the provincial capital. I'll buy it for a while. When I get to the provincial capital, I'll take you to meet your aunt. Do n't worry. My aunt is very nice and you will definitely become very good friends. My aunt knows that you like to eat sweets. I specially made a dish for you. Why are you here and come back with me ? Why did you spend so much time looking for you ? Don't you know? Commander, who is he ? I don't know you. I don't know. I look good. How can I teach you a lesson today ? Why don't you say goodbye ? Don't move, let me go, don't move, let me go, do n't move, don't move, let me go. Major, be honest and take Lili away. Lili, come back with me . Let's go. Let me go. I 'm fine. Liu Liang. Miss Su is Major Tang's fiancee. How dare you pretend to be his father? Hahaha, I'm his father. Why don't you move ? How do you know? Good old Huang Lao Huang. There's a snake on your head, it looks like a rat. Where did the rat come from? Oh, why don't you go and have a look? If I don't go, people are afraid that I won't go . Hey, you're not afraid of mice, right? I Go and have a look. Look , I spent 20 silver dollars and had to catch mice myself . Willow leaves covered the sky. Master, what song did you hum? I hum this, explore the Qingshui River. I relied on this song to catch your wife. Hahahaha , master, please teach me. Listen , hey, boss Cheng , is it no wonder that the weather is like this ? The sun was shining just now . Yes, it has changed . No matter how fast the weather changes , he can't change as fast as a woman. Do you think it's Boss Wang? Hahaha, you big men don't know how to use women to boil water . Hahaha, take a look and say. If you change, you will change. Hahaha. You said you are disgusting . Master, look at it. I'm going to go. Hey , ah, ah, ah, ah. Help. I didn't expect it to come so quickly . Come on. Come on. Take things away, take things away , military orders, go, go, go, father, father, get the gun, get the gun, get the gun, hurry up, hurry up , ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Ah ah ah, save me, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, what are you doing in a hurry to reincarnate? Get out of the way , get out of the way, there are rats, there are rats, there are rats, get out of the way, get out of the way, do it. What ? You can't even sit on the train. There are rats. There are rats. There are rats. Run. There are rats. There are rats. Run. Oh, big white rats. There are rats. Run, run. Such a big man is still afraid of a mouse . I'll go to Yuesheng, Yuesheng, Yuesheng , Yuesheng. Change your voice , come here, come here , get out of the way, get out of the way, Ye Sheng, come over , get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way , sister Lingling, go, get out of the way, get out of the way . Come on, get out of the way, get out of the way , walk the rat, run, walk the rat, run , run, walk the rat, walk the rat, walk the rat, run, run, there are rats in this land, hahaha, you big man was cut like this by a rat. Do you think it's funny or not? Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha What's going on , let's go ? What's going on, Dad ? Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha no one's life What's going on ? Yeah, rats , rats , rats , rats, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, there are so many rats . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh themselves -- open the door, open the door, open the door, open the door, open the door , open the door, oh no. Let 's go, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, can't you move the train? My family is still behind . This will kill them, Miss Xiao Tang, Miss Xiao Tang, Mr. Xiao, Mr. Xiao, if this door is opened, please help me . You can't shut me up, help me, you save me, you help me, how can you do this, I can't hit you, please, please, don't move, don't move, Tang Shaoxia, don't you now When you are hesitating, this is an order to drive. Brother, don't hit me. I see they are locked in front. It's too late. Go from above. Go fast, fast , fast. Be careful. Don't be afraid. Come on. Don't be afraid . Don't be afraid. Be careful. Be careful. Come on . Come on ! Ah, save ah ah ah, save ah, go there and go there , what's the situation when you come over, the master, the mouse, the mouse , ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Xiao Tang, don't move, don't get excited , Miss, go quickly, the train is disconnected, go, go , go , bye, yes, it 's you, give me my son , give me my son, let it go , let it go, calm down, let it go , you all saw what happened just now, without him, all of you would be dead. Is this how you treat a hero? That's bullshit . Didn't you see anyone else who could come over? Brother , I What's wrong, brother ? What's wrong, brother? These are the symptoms of Yersinia infection . It's an infectious disease. Check it out. People who have been bitten by mice must be isolated immediately , otherwise everyone will be infected. I heard it was transmitted from overseas. Check it out. He was bitten at once . He was bitten. He was bitten. He was bitten. He was bitten. He was bitten. He was bitten. He was bitten. He was bitten. He is injured, Sister Yueshan, something seems not right. Teachers and students, what should you do if you are bitten again? The man is him, he is him. There are monsters that can save you. Be quiet. There are monsters that can save you. Don't move the hell. I heard that there is no medicine. You must eat people. Save Put down the gun and fart. Let's try. One life is worth one life. See whose life is worth. Let them put the gun down. If they hear it, put it down. Put it down and throw it away. Everyone on the ground, don't panic . Get the medicine and it will cure you. Now you listen to me. Those who are not infected, go to the next car and leave. Please believe me, okay? Believe me, believe me . You really have to leave. Why are you all standing there? Cooperate. Move , move. Brother Zhao Guohua , I went with them to get the medicine . You go, Brother Zhao Guohua , I went to get the medicine . We are all here. What the hell are you waiting for at this time ? Anyone who is not infected must leave. If you don't leave, you will die . Go, go. Anyone who is not infected must leave. Go. Go. Go. Tell your people to go first. Lingling, let go . Let me go. Hahaha. Auntie, it's okay. My stomach hurts so much. Let's go. Brother, wait for me. Stop and get the medicine. Let's go. You stay and go. Come on. Come here. Why did you come with me? You 're infected . Don't you know how dangerous the disease is ? If I want to save people , who will save you? I told you not to stand out. It's your mother who spoiled you because you refused to listen. Besides blaming my mother, what else would you say? How did you talk to your father? Where were you when my mother carried me to the hospital in the middle of the night? And where were you when my mother was pregnant and suffering from dystocia? What right do you have to blame her ? It's because you are like this. I don't want to go home . Just pretend that I don't have a daughter like you. Lingling , let 's go . Second sister , you're leaving again . Yue Shengguan . Second sister, you have n't left yet. Throw them all away. Come back. 2 Brother, all the things have been thrown away. Throw them away, these beasts. There is no place to hide Master , what should we do now, save him first? It's important, old man. I 'll go get the medicine with you. Wait a minute. I'll go with you . I'll go too . Second brother, take care of the eldest brother. I'll go get the medicine. In two hours, whether you come back or not, I have to leave. I have to consider all these people. Safe dad, what are you doing ? Can you do this without me ? Go back. Dad, Ling Ling and Yuesheng have lost their mother. I don't want them to lose their father. Do we have to step on them from here? Hold on . Only by walking from here can we catch up with the time. Hold on, hold on. It's okay. Just hold on. It's almost time to cross The alley is just ahead . Isn't this the alley you are talking about? It seems that these things are afraid of the light. You can't go down below. Hurry up and walk from above while there is light . Be careful where you step. Ah , ah, ah, ah, save me. Save, ah, second sister, we are with you. Dad, can we go buy candied haws together, salsasha? Sha ah ah ah open the door ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah please check him to see if he has any infection hahahahahahaha If you don't come, don't run. Tell us what's going on outside now. They're all dead. They're all dead. What the hell is this weather? Ah, what the hell is going on? Mei Dongxi likes to hide in the shade during the day. Things will come out only when there are things. Why don't you make a fuss here? What do you mean ? Speak slowly. What do you mean? When the light goes out, go and go again . Those things in the car will come out and bite people. They will die. They will die. Go away. Please think of a solution quickly. We will all die here. Do you hear me? You have to shut up even if you leave. Who asked you to speak? It's useless to leave . But I have to remind you that they were bitten and we were not bitten . Why should we stay with them until they die ? What he said makes sense, brother, I don't want to die. I don't want to. I don't want to die here with them . I don't want to die. I'm telling you , I still want to live . Do you want to leave me ? I don't want to die yet. I don't agree with my second sister-in-law anymore. This is because he agreed with me first. Let's go. Let's go . They're coming again. Hurry up . There's no way ahead. Hey, how is your strength? Go quickly. Go, go , go, go, I just wanted you to push the rifle down. It's too late. Come on. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh , go ahead, go ahead, go quickly, Brother Zhu, don't move, don't move, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, the door is closed here, hurry up, how can such a random medicine be used in a place like this ? Really, old iron medicine Here, I'm not sure . Girl, be careful. Be careful . It's okay. I'm practicing martial arts in a low voice. I'm practicing martial arts in a low voice . Ah ah. Ah ah ah, young and old, calm down, calm down, calm down, calm down, calm down, okay, keep your voice down, okay , calm down , calm down, who are you? We are coming from Xiaobaihe Station. Someone was bitten on the train and is waiting for us to get medicine back. Save them. You said you can save them if you are bitten. I am from the Provincial Department of Health . There is a batch of special medicines that can cure infection. It 's great. Come on, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, mommy, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, mommy, baby, mommy, baby, baby, mommy, baby, baby, baby, mommy, baby, baby, mommy, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, mommy, baby, baby, mommy, baby, mommy, baby, mommy , baby, baby, mommy, baby, baby, mommy, baby, baby, mommy, baby, mommy, baby, baby, mommy, baby, mommy, baby, mommy, mommy, is it really saved? Do you know where the drug warehouse is? I I am here Warehouse manager, I'll take you there. Don't worry, these are dead people. The dead people won't do any harm. What kind of place is this? Before the hospital was renovated, this was a prison. After the outbreak of infectious diseases, isolation rooms were built here. Many people died here. Wait a minute . There are so many poisons. Take a walk . These rats are afraid of light and look behind them. We're here ahead. Everyone, please follow closely. The next life of the vine grass child is here . Yeah, I'm the only one who can take us out . What are we doing? Just open your eyes and see that it's getting dark. If we don't leave now, it's too late . No, I've already agreed with the gentleman for two hours. My old man has been driving all his life. Time for the train. I've never missed it. If you don't drive, old man , you'll be gone for the rest of your life. It's too late to leave now. It's all outside. Rats can't leave once it gets dark, right? You should think about your loved ones. I want to leave. Listen to him. Go fast. What he says makes sense. Don't leave. Don't leave. Don't leave. Don't leave. Listen to me. Who dares to stop me from living? Go down, I'm the first one to collapse now. He wants to live. Untie the rope quickly. If you don't want to live, go over there. We can only take this car away. Take everyone who doesn't want to leave and disconnect the carriage. No, Xiao Tao , how can you do this? What are you doing? Do it, hum. Go, why don't you touch me. I know how to walk, the sky. It's going to be dark soon. Let's disconnect the train now. Then leave immediately before it's too late. When will it be your turn to give orders ? Who the hell just gave you? You have forgotten your way of survival. You dare to talk to me like this and you want to rebel . I don't care who you are. Believe it or not, I'm broken. You can't escape without me. There are rats outside. Only I know where is the safest place. Don't try to persuade me anymore . I'm so tired. He doesn't want to run, think about the life and death of a mouse, okay? This time is long, heaven is ruthless , and Zhong Laoshan is a coward . Zi Wuyou has given birth to a baby Chanjuan. Help me, save me, save me, save me, save me. This is a rat's nest. If this is disturbed, it will be troublesome. The new and old batches of medicine should be upstairs. This is a waste of time. I'm sure I can't go there. Go, I can see these mice are nursing. They seem to be much quieter than the mice outside. We have a fire, so it should be fine . Go ahead, stay here and watch over Tingting for me . Why don't I go with you? There are many people and there is a lot of noise, so I'd better go alone. Okay, then you go, Xiao Xie, be careful and find it , hurry up, come down, hurry up and get it, Dad, be careful , ah, don't go over, throw the oil over, it's not cold or fast, throw the oil over, stop , ah, ah, ah, you can't go over, they are coming out , brother, hurry up , don't go over. Don't go away . It's almost gone. Come on, come on. Hey, what are you doing? What are you doing ? What are you doing? I'm sorry for those. Rich people will definitely buy this medicine. I can't let my wife and children live a miserable life anymore. I'm sorry . I'm sorry. Open the door. Come back . Open the door. Don't open the door. Open the door together. Let's go out and walk. Run . The rat is catching up with her. Don't go, hurry up, get the medicine to dad, walk , walk, hurry, hurry, get in the car , hurry , hurry, you can still do it It's very simple to say hello and step on the accelerator. Why didn't I know you could drive? There are so many things you don't know. Let's go. Girl, can you drive? It's okay. I just need to be familiar with it. It 's okay. Slowly, yes, it's getting better and better . There are so many and there is no end. How much does it cost to chase them down? Hurry up, hurry up, ah, ah , ah, speed us up. Come on , drive on, drive on, there's sunshine in front of you. Big brother , Lingling . Lingling . Big brother, Yuanshou . Big brother , Lingling. Lingling. Big brother, Yuanshou. Haha . Brother , are you back? Did you get the medicine? Get in the car. Get in the car. Get in the car. Get in the car. Go. Get in the car. Dad . Give my dad the medicine. The first village, the front and back, the second generous one, the third village air duct and the four hoof grooves. He has gone crazy. Quickly stop him and fuck him. up fuck Up, get the medicine, get in the car , daddy, get in the car, hurry up, let 's go , daddy, get in the car, hurry up, master , give your hand to me, master, master , brother Wu , hurry up , brother Wu, hurry up , brother Du, be at ease, brother Wan Zhu, he is a good man Thank you. Are you feeling better? Ah, brother, please be patient. Brother, I have never seen this before. Stop the car. The car is still behind you. Why did it stop? Yes, the teacher is still behind. The front is blocked. Get out of the car and push. The mouse is almost catching up with the kid. Uncle is determined to leave , get out of the car and push them, let them go Oh, hurry up, there's no time to go, get out of the car and push, hurry up , baby, let's stop fussing and stay with mom for a while. Oh, daddy, hurry up, brake and push, daddy, what are you doing down here ? It's very dangerous outside. Go back, daddy, don't say that . Come back quickly . I know you are scared, I am scared too, but where can we go ? Many of you have family members who are no longer alive, but they want us to live well . I can't. We can work together and work together to survive. Everyone, listen to my command. Ah 123 123 here is our god our god is our god I 've spent my whole life trying to pay you back, you rats and broken cars, brothers, I want to come on , ah, ah, get in the car , get in the car, get in the car, get in the car, get in the car, get in the car , follow me. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on , come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Come up and ask the driver to stop Come on, come on , don't stop, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, give me your hand , come on , sister, come on, come on , run, come on, sister , Tingting , you are too sensible and you will suffer in the future. Don't be too sensible. If you have anything to say, get in the car and say, Daddy, Lingling, daddy is most worried about you, girl, don't be too strong, I was wrong, I will never make you angry again, can you come up, okay, I was wrong, daddy , second sister , can we never go home again? As long as we are here Home is here