- Today, I'm gonna read your mind (whooshing) through the screen. First up, I'm gonna guess which Let's go. (gentle music) For this first mind reading trick, what I want you to do, is select one of these emojis. You could pick any one you want. This is a free choice for you. You have four options. Pick an emoji, but what I want you to do, whether you're watching for me to connect directly I need you to hover your finger just ever so slightly above that screen so it sends a little heat over the emoji. I'll be able to kind of So now that you've got the emoji there, I'm gonna explain the rules of this game. Keep your finger over that, but you're gonna be and left and right. You can move one posted but you cannot move diagonally like this. Let me explain. Keep your selection, your finger over that emoji that you originally selected. But to make this harder for me, I'm gonna go ahead and put some more emojis up here. Now again, let me explain. If you had chosen, let's just say, hypothetically you had in that original selection. And if I said, &quot;Move three squares.&quot; You would go one, two, three, or you could try to trick me. You could be here and you can go one, two, three. You could go one, two, three. You can try to be as tricky as you want. Just go left and right, up and down, one posted note at a time, but not moving diagonally. So you had either started with the heart, this monkey, the peace sign, and the camera as your first choice. So let's go ahead and start. I want you to move four places and I'm gonna count it out for you. One, two, three, four. Now your finger is hovering over a new emoji probably or maybe the same one I don't know. But I'm gonna go ahead and sense that you're not over this emoji. So I'm gonna put it over there. Now what I want you to Again, you can go left and right, up and down. You can go back, but you cannot go diagonal. Move five spots. One, two, three, four, five. You're somewhere in one of these emojis. But I'm getting a sense I don't think it's part of it. So now I want you to select two more moves. Let's go two. One, two. Now that you've moved two spots, I'm gonna move camera emoji out of there. Now go ahead and move I'll count it out. One, two, three. You're hovering over an But I don't think it's this one or the poop emoji. Alright, let's go ahead and do three more. Your choice. One, two, three. This is a hard one. I think a lot of people A lot of people want love, but sadly that goes away. That leaves us with one more move. Go ahead and make any choice you want. Move one. So I think you're not on this one. (mumbles) this one. I think you are on the monkey position. Let me know down in the comments if that's where you were. For this next mind reading trick to work, I need you to quickly think of a fruit. First fruit that comes to mind. You got one? All right. So you've got your fruit and I want you to spell but take the last letter of that spelling. Got the last letter of So now I've got this beautiful I want you to find your letter and memorize the color that's inside that Got it memorized? Let's go over here. Now you've got that color memorized and before me, I've got a bunch of really cool vehicles and I want you to pick one that So if you've got that selected, I'm gonna guess which I'm gonna go with the taxi. Did I get that right? Comment below if this was your choice. Now I wanna teach you a couple of mind reading that you could fool your friends with or your family. But first we need to do All right, so you're just gonna have a to read a sentence that and I want you to count all Ready? Go! Five, four, three, two, one. How many letter F's did You may have said three. And if you did, that's okay. That's what I said the first time. It's actually six. I'm gonna check that again. Finished files, two and then the Of's, that's five. And there's one right six. It's weird how your So like I said, I wanna teach you a little to fool your friends with. So for this last mind illusion, I'm just gonna round it on you. I'm gonna ask you a couple It helps if you answer out loud. So let's do a rapid fire. What day does Christmas fall on? What digit falls between one and three? What are hamburgers made of? And last question, what side of the street do Okay, now really quickly, think of a color and a tool. Say it out loud, go! If you just said, a red hammer, your mind, one, is but you're hopefully excited 'cause I'm gonna teach you how to do that. You're ready for the reveal. There's actually no secret to it. So this is a pretty popular online one that I found where just So you're gonna ask your friends, you know, what day does Christmas fall on? They're gonna say December 25th. There actually really is The questions are really just an illusion to get them, their mind thinking in a different way. So you're gonna get them you're gonna say, &quot;What digit falls between one and three?&quot; A lot of people just ask math questions as well for this illusion. They'll say, &quot;What's two plus five? &quot;Six plus 12?&quot; And they'll just do rapid fire math. Then the third question people ask is, what are hamburgers made of? And then they're gonna say, you know, &quot;Lettuce, cheese, tomatoes.&quot; Whatever. And then your fourth question is, what side of the street do They're gonna be thinking really quick, left, right? Actually I don't know. I think some countries drive on the right side of the road still. And then the key here is speed. You're gonna quickly say, &quot;Think of a color and a tool, go!&quot; And they're gonna spew out something. You don't wanna give them too much time or else they're gonna say, &quot;I thought of a green screwdriver &quot;Or a blue drill bit.&quot; And let me know if it works with fooling and they think you have So thanks for joining me. Like this video. If you enjoyed it and your mind was blown at Also, if you wanna see part one, super fun right there. (mumbles) should subscribe if (train whistling) Oh, the trains here. Gotta go. (gentle music)