[Music] &quot;Hollywood film star James Stewart is now Britain he had this to say about his wartime at this appearing before the camera, about army I was asked to make a statement for the and European films were Veterans of World War were already big stars during the Golden Age of to serve in the cause of freedom. Some of the enlisted and they were Ronald Reagan, Henry of these celebrities served as high-profile dangerous occupations. Most people in the United James Stewart from their films without knowing the war. James Stewart stood out above all the the war? What made him stand out above most other after the [Music] war? Hello I'm Colin Heaton Corps former history professor book author and [Music] History. James Maitland Stewart was Pennsylvania where he grew up with his two was Elizabeth Ruth Stewart and his father was store started by his grandfather J.M. Hardware Mercersburg Academy and Princeton a degree in architecture. Because it was the hard to find but he did get a job as a setup managed to start acting on stage in small parts then Hollywood came calling in 1935. Stewart started a legendary film career. During this time Clark Gable and Jean Harlow among others. Few in the U.S. Army Air Corps over Europe and legend as an actor began before the war and his war. The family had a long and distinguished Fergus Moorehead served in the American a union general in the Civil War. His father and World War I. Stewart earned his private and &quot;Charles Lindbergh inspired me like most young in the First World War and Amelia Earhart. to enlist in the U.S. Army Air Corps in weight compared to his height of 6'3&quot; . first being rejected he enlisted again in reported for induction as a private in the Air Aviation Cadet Training so he applied for an Air a licensed commercial pilot. Stewart received his 1942. Due to his experience he spent over Airfield in Albuquerque, New Mexico before his a qualified B-17 and B-24 pilot and in 1943 and part of the 445th Bombardment Group flying then relocating to RAF Old Buckenham in East two worst days in Air Corps history, the August and Regensburg which almost saw Congress defund B-17s and over 550 men on the first mission and 60 over 600 men on the second mission. Morale took to raise morale. Stewart volunteered to fly as often crew member of his crew on their job skills and their corrective action would be. Stewart to ensure each man had equal knowledge it. One time one of his crews had not been about it. He took them to the pay officer and that if these men were &quot;not paid within 30 the infantry.&quot; The men were paid on the spot. Christmas Eve mission to Calais, France to hit the stated that flak and fighters would be heavy. Some were well known. Stewart then went to his crews and 12,000 feet not 25,000 and he would only this very dangerous mission. His men were dedicated great success as the estimated 12 launchers bombs. Stewart was promoted to major following the As the leader of the 445th Bombardment Group made a navigational error and was off course by to the proper compass heading and reduce the the call to stay with his leader. That mistake by had left Ludwigshaven and 28 miles south of Paris over 60 the B-24 formations. The lead element was torn apart; Stewart kept his formation together and tight in and aircraft home. The unit morale was high. the younger officers and the local English women broadcasts for the war effort and this was when Winston's daughter-in-law at that time. Pamela said and he was really adored by his men. Even though was not beyond him to make recommendations for deserving.&quot; Stewart earned a reputation as a good because he always brought his crews back leadership style was unique to his personality saw fit. When he entered the hut of one of his infraction. He then proceeded to have beer with a keg being stolen from the officer's mess. The men finished the beer and he said, &quot;I'm sure that was no punishment and he kept his silence but the missions than almost any other officer of his raids into Germany as far as Berlin. Leading or colder, flak and fighters is the best way to earned it in spades. There was some concern from even though he had only flown 12 missions with and it was considered a disaster for the war or captured. It was decided that he should be duties so he was transferred to the 453rd mission to Berlin. He became the new operations the best mission planners in the air service. Their losses had been high and morale was low so would not hurt. But if the brass thought that In May Stewart was briefed on the coming D-Day that would lead up to the amphibious invasion. day before the invasion. Stewart had his 453rd before and for 9 days after the landings and bombers. For his service as Deputy Commander of Distinguished Flying Crosses, three Air Medals and his World War II service in Europe he was promoted Air Corps. He had been decorated by Britain, France and missions he flew over Germany. One of his last and presiding over the courts-martial in June 1945 his navigator 1st Lieutenant Theodore Balides were eventually found not guilty due to faulty contact with his almost equally famous superiors Spaatz and others. All thought him a most reliable Stewart always recalled him as never displaying his voice even during flak or fighter attacks. blown apart, men falling to their deaths and enemy out often took their toll of those men who calm and in control during such intense battle himself explained his method of leadership under warp judgment, freeze reflexes, breed mistakes. Worse checked could infect my crew members and I could said; &quot;You have to know your men. You have to see a lot of missions. Despite being seasoned they easy. You must be in total control and let them with them. You will not abandon them. You are there leader you will see the positive results. My only But Stewart's fame extended far beyond the United Europe, but one little known fact that I shared both had bounties on their heads. The German pilot marks. This was because the Luftwaffe and many of the older old school pilots were a well-known actor as well as a pilot was of favorite film was &quot;Gone with the Wind&quot; and her the leader of the Hitler Youth, Lieutenant General and possibly his best friend, actress and director two men and their work in film. They all knew of Lieutenant General Karl Wolff said, &quot;Hitler would just to meet with them. He did not wish them German morale. Even Propaganda Minister Josef Goebbel especially Clark Gable. Stewart was also one of October 1945 and he transferred to the United Force became an independent branch in 1947. During Air Command and completed transition training as a party at his friend's house, fellow actor Gary married a year later and they had twin daughters a previous marriage Michael and Ronald. Tragedy on June 8th 1969 at the age of 24 while serving to return to making movies but he did not want to enough of that and he wanted to do comedies. He home to see his parents he did not want the wanted to become an average American citizen and a twin engine Beach Bonanza for personal use and the Air Force. On July 23rd 1959 Stuart was highest ranking actor in American military a non-duty observer on a B-52 on an Arc Light raid 1966. Stewart served for 27 years and retired from Force Distinguished Service Medal. Stewart appeared westerns, musicals, suspense thrillers, military and and comedies. Stewart became a best-selling author Award Lifetime Achievement recipient. He was also Film Institute awards for Lifetime Achievement. Freedom. When his wife Gloria died in 1994 just retired from public life and he truly loved her that I will share with the readers and the will complete your life, cherish it and protect June 25th 1997 a thrombosis formed in his right James Stewart died of a heart attack caused by his children at his home in Beverly Hills on memorial service including Carol Burnett, Bob Hope James M. Stewart USAF retired was buried with full in Glendale, California. He was truly a quiet what we call &quot;The Greatest Generation&quot; today. He American. &quot;Now I have my own outfit the heavy here and we're going to do our best to be useful Thank you for watching Forgotten History. us comments and show ideas and we will get time. [Music]