When it comes to your spiritual life, you have And if you put logs of wood on it, you will you will not have fire. Now to live on fire for to you right now how to build fire, instead of for God. They don't build fire. Instead they make not on fire for God, and I'm going to right now deal with what you need to do to stay on fire is Book of Acts 28:2-3. &quot;And the natives showed made us all welcome, because of the rain that Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them and fastened on his hand. I want to share with Write this down. Number one. You will only live to overcome excuses of the flesh. So drop this the extent of your ability to overcome excuses of But it was raining, it was cold, and Paul just Paul had three excuses, and most likely you will the storm. Excuse number two, the shipwreck. didn't deliver him from the storm, but instead God the storm is the reason why many people are not you from, God didn't intervene in the midst, God get hurt, we get disappointed, and that takes our use. Well I can't trust God anymore. I can't burn Why? Because you know I burned for God before, nothing good happened. My life only got worse. you ever thought about the fact that God doesn't delivers us through the storm. Sometimes God walks with you through the valley. Sometimes faith other times faith is the path right through them. to understand, God delivers us from things, but in the middle of those things. You know I had that time for God to heal my eyes. Not necessarily in time I checked. I don't need glasses, I can see of my parents, I'm actually the only one without my eyes and they think you know something is wrong I have really good vision. In fact I could see eyes, I wasn't necessarily asking God to heal was asking God to heal the cosmetics, you know one lid is different than the other one. And no, believe God is able. But I believe that God heals we have a promise to have full confidence nicer, hotter, beautiful. So that's just kind little bit when I didn't receive the answer for my been easy to get disappointed, and say, I'm not anymore. I'm not going to press in anymore because learn that there are things God delivers you from, about it. Jesus stopped the storm. Paul learned to of faith. Why God did not supernaturally stop the and Paul had to sit in jail. It's not because delivered from something, and I'm not speaking situations of life. This does not mean that it's going to go as far as to say, just because you it does not mean you didn't have faith. You know He's probably the greatest man of faith I have when even as he was dying, he was encouraging know why he died, and many people would have was a curse. I mean we've done everything. and he was actually the one doing deliverances as have the answer. What I do know is that sometimes delivers you through the fire. Hebrew boys went through it. So don't let the enemy use this this problem that now you shouldn't be burning shipwreck deals with things in our life like jobs, that are supposed to help us get from point A from point A to point B. For many people a ship is For some people, the ship is actually a ministry. is actually our family because they help us to church. And a lot of times when you experience experience loss of a job, loss of a loved one. and I would be lying today to say it's not a big super big. But we also must understand in these God doesn't want you to wreck your faith. My let the shipwreck, wreck your faith. Drop this wreck your faith. Paul actually said, some people shipwrecked. Meaning when you lose your job, when you have to close it now. Maybe something happened maybe you were a leader of the ministry and you you got to close the ministry. Or you maybe disappointing. It's painful. It's like a death wrecked? Paul had to swim holding on to broken let the shipwreck steal your faith. Don't let the the trauma to destroy your passion for God. you're the weakest, most vulnerable, to tell things only got worse. Look you've been burning promises that He has given you? Look, your alone.&quot; The devil is a liar. Just because God did have to throw the towel and destroy your faith. broken pieces, take one day at a time, look for His character. Even if you don't feel like you quiet, silent dependence on God, and you will see you will see better days because God is faithful, the sun shines, His presence is around us. We're Even in the most difficult moments, we walk He's with us. When we walk through the flood, it learn to swim. Sometimes holding on to broken is doing, forgetting the things of the past and the excuse why you wreck your faith. The third causes things to be cold. And the Bible says, they and it was cold. The rain speaks of personal, in holiness and righteousness. The rain speaks of something is holding you back. The rain speaks of and indulging in, but you're seeking to overcome. defeat than victory. You experience more bad days and it's discouraging, disappointing. And the &quot;What's the point? Why even try? You have more of even pressing into God, when you keep falling the point of pressing into God when you and that alcohol keeps bringing you back when you you keep falling into pornography? Keep repenting, falling into it. Just give up. Don't burn for God. burn for God.&quot; And while this voice sounds good we're bad, we need to change, and one day we're my friend, is demonic. It's an excuse that devil knows, you can't be holy without the Holy overcome. He knows you are very close to your that breakthrough and he will continue to dominate don't fulfill the lust of the flesh so you walk in the Holy Spirit so you don't fulfill the only hope to living a victorious, holy life is on somebody, drop this in the comments. My hope but in God. Don't believe this lie and excuse, fire for God. No, you need to get on fire for why the fruit of the Holy Spirit, the character Spirit. That means Holy Spirit is the one that's things through Christ who strengthens me. Even about that he's able to go through poverty and times. But it can apply also to all other seasons Jesus. So when you're battling with something God. Win the battle and then you'll burn for God.&quot; in that excuse, don't embrace that excuse, and as you fight against sin, as you pull away trigger points in your life and focus on Jesus. evangelize, even as you struggling. Lazarus, when he was walking toward Jesus. And then Jesus sent get resurrected spiritually, sometimes there are struggle a bit. Different people have different These are the things from our past, habits, out like a layer of an onion. And the lie of the all the grave clothes and then walk toward Jesus. with the strength we have, with the faith we have. go with this strength of yours and I will save hand. Meaning God says, put in your effort, your righteousness, holiness, walking in God. You're don't stay in a grave. Walk toward God and help is victory, greater measure of breakthrough in first thing we shared is you cannot burn for God this in the comments. You cannot burn for God excuses and you will live on fire for God. Don't on fire for God. Don't believe in this lie that of those people that's supposed to live on fire a committed Christian. There is no such thing. If saved and be carnal, meaning, stay carnal. You problem why Christians are saved and don't burn and they embrace excuses. Reject those excuses, notice is what we've read. Natives kindled the in the comments. Someone kindles the fire but it in the comments. Someone sparks the flame but it's conference can spark the flame, a youth retreat a flame, reading a book can spark a flame, an service can spark a flame. So sparks are there. but they don't last. Sparks don't last. Sparks, a fire, it will not continue if you don't put fuel Fire needs fuel. Not just the spark. We go to even experience God in a very tangible physical my life has changed. Uh not really. A spark, an change. it does not guarantee change because fire the fire will die down. If you don't believe Spirit? That means fire can be quenched, and doesn't die. God's fire in me dies if I don't fuel. If you have a powerful encounter fuel. Your habits, your attitudes, your spiritual diet. This fire will not last. It wasn't because your encounter with God wasn't a new encounter. It's that if you don't put fuel give you a Scripture. In Leviticus 6:12, &quot;And the and it shall not be put out. And the priest shall in the chat. Every morning. &quot;And laid the burnt wood. So wood and offering, &quot;and he shall burn on on somebody. Lord Jesus. Wood, offering and fat. morning, but did you see this. God starts you have to keep it. In fact, a lot of the the Tabernacle was finished, God came and visited but the priests were required to keep the fire. gave simple instructions. Wood, the fat and also some sacrifice on this altar and some wood, and the fire on the altar burning. This fire will not comments. Keep the fire on the altar burning. What that fat of the peace offerings? What are these are wondering why you're not on fire for God, and A revolutionary answer is you stopped putting fuel when you stop feeding the fire, the fire dies. the burnt offering and the fat of the peace and the same thing we must do. I mean, let's in the Bible. King Saul and Paul who became has a powerful encounter with God, ends up naked, goes back home and does exactly what of sticks. Great start to the fire, no fuel. arrest Christians, persecute Christians. He also gets knocked down to the ground, blind, hears a a difference between Paul who became Saul is that, he fasts for three days. He prays for those three pray for Ananias. Saul gets water baptized, Saul preaching right away. You see the difference. and the other Saul became an apostate, backslider. that encounter, put fuel into the fire and the had an encounter. If God wants to change my life, change in your life, in your walk with Christ, you the spark could be right now what you're book that you read, a convicting sermon. A spark a breakthrough just gives you that huge spark. spark will produce change. The encounter does not If it doesn't lead to you feeding, fueling your the fat of peace offerings. I want to give you for fire. Prayer, fasting, giving and reading to church, serving in the church. Let me give for spiritual fire. The first one is prayer. As this doesn't have to be super long prayers but that in prayer you know you're kind of not getting the woods and pray, go in the mountain and pray, where you're a little bit isolated. Maybe turn on Prayer is the fuel for fire. Drop this in the thing that you can do to fuel the fire of God in fasting is a private discipline that yields public prayer connects you to God. Fasting increases your your spiritual hunger, and fasting helps you to for temptation. Fasting gets your fire back, why? yourself and God promises grace to people who fasting is not a diet, fasting is not to lose and the benefit of fasting is you get fresh fire. women in the Bible, they fasted. Many of them did. fasted two days a week that the early church, like tells us about that. So they live a fasted life. if you want to fast forward. That's why we call fast, there's an acceleration to your spiritual Fasting is the fuel for fire. The third thing to the priests, bring the burnt offering and the altar has no sacrifice. We only bring to God our that bring us pain and hurt. Lord, deliver me from a huge sacrifice. I give up cigarettes, that's that's not our sacrifice. Do you know why? rid of it benefits you. Oh I just you know give up understand. It's very painful, and very difficult But as you grow in Christ and you experience bring you into places of sacrifice where you give They're just yours. They belong to you. You have a sacrifice. Things like money. Things like your big one, and I really want to encourage you, if prayer and fasting. It's also sacrifice. What is The Bible calls it pride, greed and lust according if you boil down the whole world, it has really the real reason why people don't pray is not proud. Ouch. Fasting defeats lust, why? Because It helps you to subdue your cravings, lust of the and as you subdue it through fasting, you're in getting what it wants. And giving defeats you from greed. Greed is that green monster greed and because a lot of us are not wealthy, stingy, you're borderline greedy. If you're not who's given your life to a giving Jesus Holy Spirit who has gifts. Holy Spirit has gives. He doesn't get anything back. Nobody pays they all give. We embrace the Christianity that what we do is that we don't give. We're stingy. be tithing or not? That's not a fight we should focused on tithing, the New Testament focused on Him, and many times He would ask them to give of the things that she had. Now again, I am not you have. What I'm saying is that we have to renew you can't burn on fire for God if you're attached money, you cannot be in love with God. Period. I and I don't care if some of you think I'm talking about generosity gospel right now. I'm cross. When I really got serious with I was in ministry already for about 10 years, full-time ministry. But I'll tell you my finances went through sacrifice. It was actually the hardest the fasting. It was the sacrifice. And the is because the competition for your Matthew 6:24. Drop this in the comments. The It's money. And when 10 years ago that hit me, with God, I'm missing something in my ministry. I needed to be free from money. But I didn't have I wasn't attached to it. But I wanted to burn to be spiritually rich more than I wanted to desire was. I read this story in the Bible where getting richer financially but getting poorer &quot;Lord, I want to burn for You.&quot; And the Lord &quot;You can't be attached to your money and be deeply and I did. Changed my life. I died a million I became less attached to money. Money was no a means to provide for my family. It was a means and when I went through that grinder. I call habit, where now sacrifice is not as painful. as prayer. You know takes a little bit of you know I know it's the right thing to do sometimes I do it. It's the right thing you. Sacrifice, when it's ordered by God is in the chat, and don't start logging off right let me go do something else.&quot; Sacrifice is the Bible. Reading the Scriptures is the fuel for for fire. Disciples were discouraged walking into Emmaus. And Jesus walked beside them. As He happened. The Bible says as they were reflecting Scriptures, the Scripture says this. They said to when He spoke to us. The Bible says that God's Word, you catch fire. Drop this in the comments. the consuming fire is in that Word. So prayer, Regular reading the scriptures is catching flame, the fire of God in your life is serving at your church, I mean being involved in the local church. church has kids ministry, when your church has your church goes and evangelizing, you go and you you know some spring cleaning or something. And &quot;I'm going to be there.&quot; When you get engaged give you an example, when the fire of God came that fire came because the church was together. actually spending some time choosing who's going were praying but they were together, and the on fire for God? Stop skipping church, get engaged with going to your church. Serve in God's local Bible says the oil flows from the beard of Aaron, got to be connected to the body. That's where Let's take a little break. Drop a fire emoji in shared that if you want to live on fire, beat the you started but you have to provide fuel for the to do to burn on fire for the Lord. Pray, fast, local church. Now I need to mention the last your life will provoke vipers but if you don't the comments. God's fire will provoke vipers and God's fire in your life doesn't always provoke and all of these crazy devils started coming out just they were so domesticated and so comfortable on fire for God. But now you're starting to live you're not playing on his team anymore. You're now. So guess what's going to happen? He's Paul built fire, the Bible says a snake, viper So a little sub-point. When you get on fire on fire for God, hell can break loose. Don't loose when you get on fire for God. Drop this out right now. Don't be afraid when hell breaks type that out. Help somebody out right now. to see this right now. When a father who had and Jesus went to the house to heal his Mark 5:36, the daughter died. So things got worse, &quot;Don't be afraid; only believe.&quot; What is that mean start burning on fire for Jesus, and hell breaks afraid to walk with Jesus if things get worse. this in the comments. Don't be afraid to walk walking with Jesus makes your life better, makes it's not always the case. Sometimes walking with vipers to come out, hell to break loose. You know But the moment Moses came and started to provoke the straw. Things got worse. It seemed like man we here, God brought the answer, God heard our cry. get better. They actually got worse before they in his life, things got worse in his life. So I'm What I'm saying is this. If you get fire for God afraid. Your setback is a setup for God to do a comeback. You're not being buried, you're being A seed must die in a dirty, dark soil for the happens for olives to yield oil. There's a juice. If you want to have juice in your life, failures, calamities. They're not fatal, nor use it for His glory and the Bible says, when the off. When a problem persists God, voices will come. The Bible says, when the People started to talk and they said, &quot;Ha! God is but the justice of God is not letting him live.&quot; in your life as you are pursuing Jesus, that you you to quit. Like people told the father of a the Teacher? Just go and bury your daughter? bother to fast? Why bother to sacrifice? Why do to die.&quot; All these are voices of the enemy. Don't snake off. Shake off that disappointment, shake You're not just a person needing deliverance, were through Christ able to reign in life. Rise attacks us when we're on fire for God?Because he The hand that the viper attacked, few verses the sick. The devil attacks what God plans to comments. The devil attacks what God plans to use. is attacking your children because God plans to was planning to raise a baby. Herod did the same and he went attacking them. Don't be surprised if seeks to use you. When you build fire God will build fire, things might get hard for a season. accusing voices that you did something wrong. difference between conviction and condemnation? is from the Holy Spirit. Condemnation is usually specific. How you talk to your wife was wrong. How conviction is specific, condemnation is usually Conviction gives you hope. Condemnation exalts sin which is repentance, Jesus and forgiveness. Listen to the Holy Spirit's conviction in Jesus you will not have fire. If you lose, if you you shouldn't burn for God. God delivers us through storms. Excuses can come in the form of you from point A to point B broke. And instead of to swim, survive, trust in His mercy every day. An of your life where you're currently struggling. An breakthrough in your walk with Christ. The devil then burn on fire for God.&quot; But God's way is the The second thing we talked about today and that is through an event, a book, a person, prayer or some to fuel the fire, to feed the fire by a bundle said it's prayer. We said it's fasting. We said and it's also being involved and engaged in a you start burning on fire for God, typically life. But there are moments and we have to hell breaks loose. Things actually become worse you have to pull it backwards. A seed before they become grape juice, they go through they go through crushing, and sometimes that It's sanctification, and we have to refuse to God is taking you from deliverance to dominion. We dominion. In deliverance, God delivers you from to you. What do I mean by that? Deliverance, demons attack you from the outside and you promised land. In Egypt, God delivered them from Philistines and Canaanites to Israel to conquer. land you get dominion. In Egypt, God sends the grip. But in the promised land, God sends His you got to go conquer the territory that God this doesn't mean that the enemy will never attack you are empowered to throw that viper into a fire don't have to get deliverance when you are needing from the Lord and they need to build fire for resist those voices, resist those demonic you. That's where dominion is needed. That's why That deals with actually walking in dominion, first book called &quot;Break Free&quot; which deals freedom. And then the second book that deals with deliverance to dominion. Now, I do want to take deliverance. If you are here on this stream and I'm going to lead you right now through a few you through a deliverance prayer. If you are able please do. If you are able to stop what you're just rewatch it down the road, I'm going to give no magic formula to this. It's just verbally we ourselves from the power of the enemy. There place in your heart toward any sin that you Lord Jesus Christ. Just say that out loud. Lord now. Say, I repent for sins committed by my I repent for every sin that has opened the Lord I repent for any sin that my opened the door to demons, any sin that demons. Secondly, I want you to I forgive every person who hurt me, me. I release them in the name of Jesus. person right now. You can name them and just renounce every demonic soul tie that name. Take a moment and renounce any soul Jesus name. You can even name that that soul bonding you feel. now. The fourth thing, I renounce spells. Come on, say, I renounce that Satan might have used to connect me renounce every witchcraft and demonic spells name. Right now number five. Say that chain of that chain of sickness, be broken in Jesus pray over you. In the mighty name of Jesus, I take the cause of that affliction, the cause of that tormenting demon, unclean spirit, threatening you to come out right now. Come out right now in name. I command every unclean spirit of pride, spirit of torment, every spouse spirit, in Jesus name. I command those unclean spirit to come up now tormenting your mind, tormenting your body, In Jesus mighty name, up and out right now in the in your life, in your marriage, in your career. spirits affecting your health, your marriage, your spiritual life, your emotional life, your right now. Up and out in Jesus name. Command right now in the name of Jesus. Be free in Jesus name. Those open doors be closed because of in Jesus name. Spirit of infirmity, leave right lust and pornography, come out in the mighty name name. Holy Ghost fire in Jesus mighty name. Reveal in Jesus mighty name. Thank You, Lord. Thank a deep breath and just breathe it out, whatever spirits of divination, the spirits of infirmity. be free from that right now in the name of Jesus. intrusive thoughts, be free from it in Jesus right now in the mighty name of Jesus. Thank you, the mighty name of Jesus. Thank you Lord for your that prayer emoji. Guys, this brings these three talked about the fire of God today, how to build for the fire. And also how to deal with vipers in the name of Jesus Christ. As we bring this right now to each and every one of us, for us to opportunity to lead, and that is HungryGen. We are toward the end of this year, and those of you who for the building fund. Right now the current goal already. Come on somebody, and so I want to ask is going to lead you. Would you consider taking So that we can see this project being completed see you one day as you come to HungryGen, and you I help to build this as well. And so you got to YouTube, the video is playing. We are currently the roof. We have already laying all kinds of is also being run, and then we're going to do the going to go for. So it doesn't go to my ministry really want to just pray for that today. Lord, I You that You will just guide us, and I pray for later. Who You have called for such a time that You will give them the desire and You will So hungrygen.com/partner. You can do that, and flat work. Really appreciate you guys doing that. tomorrow night is going to be our interview with to be very insightful, so make sure you don't or tomorrow night. So tomorrow the interview is a fasting challenge for next month. We will do it you who are subscribed to our email list, you get when I finish teaching, we usually send an email about and on the telegram. So make sure that so that you don't miss when we go live or when we you, thank you. As you are fasting, day three, may us for the glory of God. And use us for His as we pray and as we seek His face. I probably We will still be uploading but a lot of the probably until next year. So just FYI. If I don't because I'm going to stream from the church on to my platforms as well so that we can connect and yeah, God bless you guys. Let's finish