The Ottoman Sultanate has just scored a hard won, but important victory in the Battle of Kosovo. With Prince Lazar perishing in battle, the and the powerful local lords now seek to assert of what was once, But... Sultan Murad I, the man who transformed the and engineered the early also fell on the fields of Kosovo. For a brief time, As the two battered armies retreated from news of Murad I's death reached Without his capable leadership, it perhaps would be just another onrushing horde, more interested than in ruling the conquered lands. But... in Bayezid I, the Ottomans were blessed The realm he inherited from his father still lacking the forms of for the long term consolidation The new Sultan centralized the state based founding the institutions and bureaucracy that could support an efficient rule, over the growing dominion. To strengthen his position in Europe, Bayezid left in the wake of the Battle of Kosovo. With Prince Lazar's death, his wife Milica came of age, but her hold was threatened by Hungary Taking advantage of this, the Sultan used offering to back young Stefan's in exchange for Moravian Serbia Seeing this as the only option for her family Milica accepted, giving her daughter's hand in marriage to Bayezid, to officialise the treaty. With this shrewd bit of diplomacy, the Sultan and a vassal with an experience army that in many Ottoman campaigns to come. In addition, the treaty freed up Ottoman other Serbian principalities With his western flank secured, Bayezid recognizing that its' resources and manpower Despite being met by a strong anti-Ottoman often catching enemy commanders off-guard troops, relying heavily on the Byzantine, throughout the campaign. He began the resettlement of numerous Turkish into the fertile plains of This influx of immigrants provided for future campaigns in the Balkans. Peace was signed in early 1391, for another campaign Then... news came from Europe... With most of Ottoman troops in Anatolia, Hungarian which undermined Ottoman influence and sowed To the east, Voivode Mircea of Wallachia pushed into the Bulgarian to get the vital access while also supporting rebellions Bayezid ordered his limited forces in southern Bulgaria to gather and strike north, meanwhile, abandoning his in preparation to march back west, Ottoman authority in the Balkans In Serbia, Turkish akinjis responded with in Hungary's southern regions, while Ottoman and began conducting This forced Mircea to turn back west, he reluctantly sought support The combined Hungarian-Wallachian offensive gradually pushed back across the Danube, retaking Nicopolis This galvanized anti-Ottoman and a new Christian coalition But, by the following year Before any Christian coalition could take lightning campaigns, absorbing the Kingdom before moving west to stabilize the situation to consolidate and expand his rule. The Despotate of Vidin was forced into the of Silistria, Nicopolis and Vidin were strengthened. Bayezid's rapid campaign stunned the Christians but, sensing that this would provoke a response from European rulers, he summoned his vassals at Serres, to reaffirm his overlordship and secure the Ottoman position in the Balkans. Directives and pledges were exchanged and most trusted vassal, with whom he carefully of having the experienced Serbian knights But not everyone at the meeting was pleased. Emperor Manuel left the gathering firmly believing the Turks, and upon returning to Constantinople the city for a long siege, one that would King Sigismund echoed Manuel's concerns, and drive the Ottomans out of Europe! The two Popes in Rome and Avignon also encouraged Western Schism eroded any authority that the Hungarian envoys travelled to all major European confirmed treaties with England and France. The temporary cessation of hostilities freed up vast manpower and was crucial in enabling the West Duke Philip the Bold of Burgundy and his son, John of Nevers was given command of the Franco-Burgundian element. Europe's most advanced Mediterranean maritime the Republic of Genoa, combined their fleets wanting to protect their lucrative From the island of Rhodes, the Knights Hospitaller having already been actively attacking Ottoman pirates and shipping in the Aegean, including the conquest of Wallachia and Bohemia joined too, as did the Teutonic Knights and various German princes, and warriors also came from the Kingdom of Naples, Aragon, Castille, and Portugal, as well as the Swiss Confederacy, the Duchy of Savoy, Poland, and Moldova. Contingents from across Europe at the Hungarian city of Buda. Bayezid responded with a full-scale invasion of Wallachia, aiming to create another buffer and gain control over both a key strategic objective However, Voivode Mircea on the Ottomans in late 1394 but having suffered heavy losses himself, while Bayezid held on to most placing Vlad the Usurper and installing additional garrisons before retreating back to Edirne. By summer of 1396, the Franco-Burgundian and At a War Council held in early July, was to coordinate The overwhelming naval superiority of the during the Nicopolis campaign. In the south, Venetian and Genoese fleets in the Aegean, and sail up into the Sea of A part of the fleet would remain there the transport of Ottoman using ports in Constantinople, Smyrna to dock and repair their vessels. From the Sea of Marmara, another part of the fleet would sail to the river Danube, where the Genoese garrison at Kiliya would be strengthened to help protect the mouth of the river from any possible Ottoman relief The remainder of the fleet until they met up Meanwhile, another fleet of some 70 ships in support of the army that marched out of Buda, along the left bank of the river, with Sigismund leading the The King of Hungary at first preferred a defensive his troops by marching into But with the summer ending and the enemy nowhere impossible to maintain a large army in one strike and the re-establishment of Christian the Ottoman expansion into Europe. The king also preferred to send a part of and then into Wallachia to reassert his overlordship Hungarian troops were to help and regain control over the left bank But the French and Burgundian commanders insisted Ottomans from the continent, by marching through and relieving Constantinople, which was By mid-to-late August, the main Crusader column began ferrying the troops across the Danube The news of the invading force reached Bayezid Unable to transport more troops from Anatolia due to the Christian blockade in the Sea of Marmara, he withdrew with his best troops a loose blockade around Meanwhile in the west, vassal contingents, were to march via Sofia towards Plovdiv. It was around this time that Ottoman spies that said: Bayezid ordered the troops to gather south of range of any Crusader scouting parties until his army was ready. Knowing that the Christians the Sultan sensed that they will stay close and that Nicopolis would be Standing on high ground, Nicopolis had a It was a major port and ferry crossing, close Wallachia towards Transylvania, and the river Osam, who's valley leads deep into central Bulgaria. During the past couple of years, Bayezid strengthened garrison under the command of one of his highly knowing that the strategically To the north, part of the Hungarian army, managed to restore Mircea to the throne anchored at the mouth of the Danube, telling Meanwhile the main Crusader army advanced into the Despotate of Vidin. Sratsimir of Bulgaria, having no desire to surrendered the fortified city of Subsequent Crusader raids were conducted displeasing Sigismund, who perhaps sought to gain control over these lands after the war. Priests and friars that were part of the expedition who frequently mistreated At Rahovo, after a brief skirmish the population and, with assurance that their lives and property But to Sigismund's dismay, Franco-Burgindian pillage and massacre the inhabitants, taking before setting the town ablaze. Not far to the east, was Nicopolis... By September 12th, groups of peasants fleeing from the several pillaged towns to the west, Following close behind The main camp was established just east of the city, close to the Danube riverbank, with a separate camp for prisoners nearby. Half of the supply fleet followed close-by, while the troops started deploying The inhabitants were gripped with fear, his well-drilled garrison The siege had begun... The well-fortified city was largely and the garrison determined Downstream, Venetian and Genoese ships appeared with additional men and supplies, after sailing for 12 days from moving into position to transfer the troops Then, the sound of Hungarian riders, The King had sent 500 horsemen over 100km to the south. And the scouts reported Sigismund advised that a plan of action be the Franco-Burgundian commanders, Indeed, the Western knights were the elite of many battles, who firmly believed confident that they will fight and defeat But, reports of the Turkish presence alarmed Voivode Mircea and Lord Coucy, a veteran French noble. They assembled 500 knights and rode out to sweep Their hunch proved correct... An Ottoman messenger weaved his way across the Christian siege lines, to deliver "Hold on bravely,I will not abandon you." The inhabitants of Nicopolis rejoiced, cheering Soon... Mircea's and Coucy's spotted the forward elements Seeing the smaller Wallachian mounted contingent, With his horsemen Mircea feigned retreat, and conceal themselves As the Ottoman vanguard pursued the enemy the forest, eager to chase down But once they came in-between Coucy's hidden In the ensuing melee, no quarter was given, within minutes, Meanwhile, the ongoing celebrations in Nicopolis who believed this to be a ruse to force the insisting that the Sultan would not of Christian knights, superior in equipment, Furthermore, French nobles threatened to cut of Bayazid's approach, arguing that it could But the returning scouting party Bayezid is coming. In frustration, King Sigismund demanded a The meeting was a loud and shouty affair. But then, Sigismund stood up. He suggested that the Wallachian infantry Having experience in fighting the Turks, they or at least softening the first Ottoman line. The elite French heavy cavalry would form to rush in and punch through Bayezid's ranks. Meanwhile, Hungarians and other allied contingents would support the attack and protect the flanks from Knowing how the Turks fight, Mircea agreed But the plan faced stiff opposition... Prominent representatives of the French contingent They were of the opinion that, by being asked insisting they will lead the attack. Accusations were laid against Sigismund and Mircea that they wanted to steal all of the glory. John of Nevers, commander of the Franco-Burgundian element, stood up and gave his support to the French nobles, The matter was settled. And with the Ottoman army only hours away, As they deployed at daybreak, the Crusaders before summarily executing the thousand or rescue attempt by the garrison in Nicopolis Neither army enjoyed On the Christian side, the heavily armored with the Hungarians in the rear, and Transylvanian troops on the right. Bayezid, meanwhile, deployed a screen of akinji with regular infantry in the second line, and a contingent of around while the Rumelian and Anatolian sipahi cavalry Further back on the right and center were the Ottoman version of heavy cavalry, though less armored than the Further left the Serbian Knights, clad in in Bayezid's army that could face the French Sigismund advised Nevers that his scouts will numbers and positioning of enemy forces, asking Nevers summoned a hasty council, where the older, more experienced knights, thought it wise to obey while the younger hawks presumed that Sigismund wants the battle honours for himself, at the same time accusing that their advice didn't show wisdom, From there, the discussion rapidly devolved Then, all of a sudden a battle cry pierced Sigismund, bewildered by gave the signal to support the Since most of his troops in the center were the Hungarian king kept in order to maintain a solid line. Up the field, thousands of knights trotting forward in unison, On battlefields such as Nicopolis, where dense for cavalry maneuvers beyond the flanks, their Arrow volleys simply bounced off, and the before the violent armored charge Those that faced the French charge directly retreat back towards the infantry line, while Soon, however, the knights encountered a line to drive into the breast of the charging horses. This slowed down the Crusader advance, as horses through the hedge of stakes, while on foot, uprooting the stakes as they went. A continuous rain of arrows and the French soon reached Straight away Bayezid ordered the sipahis that his formation in the center began falling In close combat, the regular Turkish infantry was getting slaughtered by the dismounted knights, whose armor seemed impervious. The elite Janissaries too could only fight of knights facing them, although they started Nevertheless, the advance continued by the ferocity of the Crusader assault. Despite half of them being on foot, the armored knights drove off the sipahi cavalry, mauling everything in front of them. Bayezid ordered the remnants of his akinjis, infantry, and sipahi cavalry to reform the line in order to slow down who were approaching to reinforce At this point, some of the older French commanders wanted to stop the advance, to consolidate the line But the young knights Convinced that the battle was almost won, in the hope of plundering The Sultan sent in the Kapikulu Sipahis, realizing The elite Ottoman cavalry descended upon the In the desperate fight that ensued, John of Nevers, commander This was a blow to the morale but, nevertheless, staving off charge after charge Seeing John's banner falling, Sigismund to establish contact with the knights However, Wallachian and Transylvanian troops apprehensive that a disaster But the battle was not over... Upon dispersing the screen of akinjis, the but much depleted Ottoman line. The battered Turkish footmen could not withstand Sipahi cavalry pressed forward, desperate Akinjis launched another attack! Undeterred, the Hungarian king pushed on. Getting ever closer, it seemed that the tired If he could link up with the knights in the But then... Bayezid played his trump card, sending the Seeing that the overwhelmed Ottoman line could break at any moment, Stefan spurred his horse on, leading the charge towards The shock of the charge was devastating. Serbian knights ploughed through the enemy, within minutes, stopping the Hungarian attack Soon, remnants of the line routed towards King Sigismund reportedly said: "We lost the battle by the pride and vanity of those French!" The now isolated French knights kept fighting, but their numbers slowly dwindled, and it was only a matter of time The bulk of the Crusader troops were destroyed 3000 prisoners were brought before the Sultan massacre of 1000 Ottoman while the rest were ransomed or enslaved. A small portion of the army, including Ottomans losses were also high, particularly But Bayezid's victory was complete. Memories of Nicopolis would discourage any Ottomans for centuries to come, while the along with remaining pockets of Greek resistance. The utter defeat of the Crusaders at Nicopolis tide in Europe, who maintained pressure on the Balkans, and would go on to become a great