This is Dr. Tom Biernacki This is my 11 must do And I had some secret tips messing themselves up with So make sure you watch this list, with my patients every day Blood We have a great video about that. Arteriosclerosis is fat and plaque This prevents blood flow from actually What we're talking about and congestion in the form of miracles. Veins, lymphedema, edema. This is when the blood due to pressure These vessels, You get varicose veins. I go over this with my patients This is what works for me I see a ton of patients every day. And there is some secrets because what People want to focus on the pills but that's only going to help like 5% Number one, compress and therapy. These are your compression socks, Using compression socks or sleeves the circulation. This applies pressure to the legs and help shoot thus making your heart have an easier time because there's no congestion Swelling is kind of like a traffic jam Arterial disease So there's construction That's a blood clot or artery disease. If there's a traffic and you can't Compression works really but horribly for arteriosclerosis. That's This will actually make your nighttime and compress your arterial sclerosis. So sometimes too much swelling from lack of movement The Wild West used to actually tie people to trees and their lungs would fill up with fluid could not pump blood against that stuff. That's Sitting on the couch, We're going to go over all that They can push that blood flow. They don't let it expand. They don't let engorged compression and they had a dramatic relief as studied in the Annals found that compression socks significantly blood flow in individuals What I always tell people to do Don't buy the crazy doctor prescription Number one, the insurance system sucks. Getting them reimbursed is a struggle. Insurance systems These days. You want to buy an over the counter Start with that 5 15 to 20 insurance pays for like 20 and up, A lot of the times it doesn't is so uncomfortable, So start with the light compression You can also do the ankle sleeves or add Number two, regular exercise. I already mentioned people sitting on You know, we're all guilty of this, Studies show Engage in physical activity swimming, promotes blood flow and gets It releases those good natural hormones for the future. Happens You want to get up for at least a couple That's what makes sitting on an airplane Even getting to the bathroom can make a big difference You want to push down with your feet What I do is even in a chair, you can kind That's a leg pump that actually pushes Do a leg pump a couple seconds up and down that can really get that blood So once an hour, even if you're on a plane or a train Just do some like catchphrases, like trying to do at least a minute every hour, said that doing these interventions, easy stuff led to dramatic improvements And that makes a big, big difference. The top five exercise is walking, The body weight You have valves in your calf muscles One press or one flex of the muscles That is very good for you. It helps your heart saw a study that said essentially or more, That's how bad not moving is. Get up every hour for at least one minute. Even just press your legs down Calf Raises So simply sitting in a chair So push down with your thighs and lift It's so simple. Just push up and down. That will move the blood flow. You want to do If you're sitting for more than an hour, I've seen some studies say Every hour. You want to stand for one minute Even if you're you don't have to actually lift your body. Just putting that pressure will push that blood flow That's all you got to do. There is never an excuse the next one is leg raises. If you're laying in bed, So lift up your legs in bed That is enough to get that blood That makes a big, big difference. So same thing, just moving your ankles. That alone, it seems like nothing, Inconsistencies the key like once an hour or on the couch, if you have a broken leg or something, That makes a big, big difference. Rates of blood clots are increasing and other factors today. So get up every hour because sitting for three plus hours And bicycle kicks, in your leg, pretend you're Easy. It's almost too simple. But the studies are there, especially in the hospital, in planes Number three, strength training. Strength training is huge. If strength training was a treatment, I watched the Steve Prefontaine all those records and he was like one This is what strength training is. Strength It means you could basically You could be really out of shape You could be a senior 70, 89 years old and basically I've had patients Build up strength gradually. It's never too late. Don't give up. You get your best gains immediately. Strength training is more important than walking, running everything It gets your blood vessels nice So here's specifically what studies show. It gives you vessel dilation. Number one. So that means your blood vessels and that's shown It gets nitric oxide production, and more nutrients. That's a study published showing that nitric oxide is produced Improved artery function. As you have higher strength, The European Journal of Applied Physiology get some strength training. It, do some air squats, increase capillary density So even just like standing up on your toes that gives you more blood And that's proven by the Journal of Applied Physiology by Coach Barkley, but in just 2 to 3 you gain about 3lbs of lean muscle strength, about five plus pounds of lost fat, stronger bones, stronger metabolic rate, better weight management Who doesn't want that? Everyone has time to do it. It's the best investment you'll make. and much less peripheral arterial disease More important than anything else, gradual And we specifically show I linked that below, specific strengthening exercise to improve Number five leg elevation, elevating your legs If you can't move, or joint, a study published showed that leg elevation increases venous pressure in individuals Elevating your legs can work really well. But I love these pumps These change people's lives as well Check the links below. Number six, massage therapy. So there's a lot of great stuff like skin to brush your skin. There's massaging the legs, there's foot I love all these things. Realistically, if you get home I link some of my favorites. I love foot massagers, and there's actual physical massage. Let me give you a story. When I sit and work at the computer, when I see patients, Sometimes I wear compressive cuffs when I sit, my energy level feels great. It keeps the blood flow moving and I make sure to get up That's So compression cuffs, foot massagers, There is a massage, guns to loosen up Take a look at these right here. Powerful ones, I love all these. They can work out the knots in your hips, your lower back, As those knots get worked out, become exponentially more effective Blood flow starts moving in order. I would usually say you need good support. Then number two, you need good massage. Then number three, you need stretching. And then number four, those exercises, for most cases. That right there That's a very effective plan. Don't quit just yet. I still got some good stuff for you, but a study published in the Journal in 2010 found that foot massage velocity and enhanced vascular function Basically, the more massage you get, than inflammatory fluids move, the less Number seven, warm water. So I'm a big fan of taking a bath So Epsom salts, dry skin, if you have athlete's foot Getting that inflammation from that thick, your inflammation, because inflammation causes inflammation. It's a vicious cycle. Warm water soaks with Epsom salts, A study in the Journal of Cardiology immersion actually improved blood flow and decrease dust resistance Number eight, missing nutrients. This means good diet. If you're heavily overweight, if you're eating sugary foods and you have There are specific nutrients that help with poor blood circulation I have an amazing top 15 list and a top 19 list for swollen legs, There are actually two different pathways. One is getting the blood flow down. One is the veins So there are two different systems, even though they both can result you want omega three fatty acids, you can use some root whole grains, fruits, meats, Realistically, you could even get The bottom line is to make it simple. Cut out the garbage, calories, inducing food, all that unhealthy stuff. Get natural, healthy food like lean meats, healthy vegetables, green vegetables. This has been well-studied. I could say 8000 articles, but this leads and endothelial function and increases Make sure you cut out the junk. I have guides the top 29 worst foods the top 15 and 19 supplements and foods. For all of this, Check those out. They include the studies. They're very detailed and in-depth. But you also want to take a look That's a good one. Omega three fatty acids bromelain, I wouldn't put that at the top of my list, but it's included as one Vitamin C is a lot. So your citrus fruits Rutin is another great remedy. So Rutin is a great supplements. I have the details in the videos below. Number nine Horse Chestnut. I included this one specifically because it's a very popular It's mentioned by a lot of people, Horse used to support venous health, reduce It is believed to improve blood flow, Very well studied. There's a lot of studies out about horse Check that out. I have some links to some of my favorites Hydration number ten. This sounds counterintuitive. Hydration. By drinking enough, You don't retain as much salt. It kind of clears your body. Realistically, if you have congestive issue, drinking because you could retain But we're talking for the people who don't have kidney failure But if you do, always check with your doctor can actually cause even more bloating. But we're talking for eating salt, You want blood flow to help maintain You don't want your blood to be as dense Can look at your urine. If your urine is like a dark color If it's nice and clear, you're probably I have a link for my favorite certain secret ingredients And I tell you why. I include that link below. Nonetheless, 11 Health issues. So diabetes, If you have underlying health one thing you can do is work So stop your smoking, stop eating sugar, lose some weight These are complex topics on their own, I know they're common sense, this guide and every other YouTube guide if you don't fix these major A study published Heart and Circulatory Physiology if you have these issues, So, for example, if you're smoking, You have to stop smoking as well. Weight I'm just going to toss this fact out here. If I put 1lbs in a backpack, so pretend If I'm wearing a backpack that increases my surface So it's a 5 to 1 ratio. Forget about all the heart benefits, For every 1lbs you lose, it's That is huge. That should be a great motivator right Simply just wearing less clothes That's how you have to think about it. Avoid prolonged sitting. I talked about exercise Studies show that basically plus hours at a time, that is as dangerous Let me repeat that smoking one pack for more than 3 hours at a time. The reality is you've got to get up. You've got to get your blood circulating. If you sit at a desk Consider If you're sitting in a car, you know, maybe do some leg pumps, There's always a solution. Stand up desks are unbelievable. This has changed my life. But pain, hamstring, thigh pain, the lower The studies verify this so these types of mats can stretch your calf muscles, your thighs, all while standing. And you can sit down any time. These are stable, they hold you computer. It's really the way to go. here are the two big secrets. The two biggest secrets that comes down to all of this stuff's worthless And these are the number one things that I see, people who stand all day, You could have a tight hip, a tight knee, lower back, a prior injury, You have to get a biomechanical exam. What I mean by or the other side, this is the most common They usually have some type of arthritis and they don't wear good shoes, they don't wear good braces, they don't Their muscle strength is not equal. They don't strength train, And what happens is people one knee, and that loads the ligaments This makes your joints throb, This makes one muscle always overworked 90% of the time. Anybody who I see for swelling and swollen feet and swollen There's a lot of fluff now about barefoot But you're already too sore. You as someone with swollen feet, you need to assess why you're unequal. You need to get your lower back, Hey, as a podiatrist, I have a lot of great videos I link those below, when good shoes, getting up every hour, making sure you're not eating a crap making sure you get enough vitamins. That's the key. Basically, any patient for them doing these things like give us to subscribe