Let's take a look at two practical examples But first, let's take a look at some theory. Don't worry, it's not gonna be too boring. We have a sample data set, we have a column Now let's say we're creating a mini report return their zip code. So it's kind of like we're filtering the data, Now the great thing about using VLOOKUP is sheet and your final report is on its own. There are two things to take care of when important. Number one is that whatever you're looking table. Okay, so for example, let's say we're looking Joe has to be on the left-hand side of the which is on the right-hand side. What we can't do is go the other way, so we Now I know that some of you are thinking yes, formula to get that done. But there are actually better formulas that which I happen to have a video on, link is Now I'm just gonna keep things simple here. So number two is the way you tell VLOOKUP So how does VLOOKUP know that we wanna have You do that by giving it numbers. So the first column in our data set is number Okay, so let me just rewind and take you through So the first argument in VLOOKUP is the lookup Number two is where is it looking it up? It's looking it up in this range, so we have Joe is in the left-hand side, remember that. The next argument is our number, what do we We want the zip code. What do we give it? Number three. Now, there is one last argument that's optional, to work, and we're gonna see that in a second. So here I have a list of customers, customer This information is sitting in a tab called Now what I wanna do is to create two reports, their respective company and country back And number two is that I receive a bunch of in my master data. Before we use VLOOKUP to solve for these, Let's get the customer ID for Kim West. VLOOKUP, the first argument is the lookup Next argument is our table array. The table array has to include two things, left-hand side and what we're looking up. So we're looking up customer ID, our lookup these two columns. And I'm gonna use Control + Shift + Down to The next argument is the column index number, In this case, it's number two. Now the last argument is optional, but it's if we want an approximate match or an exact And because it's optional, a lot of people And by default, the value is true, which means So check this out. Does Kim West have this customer ID? Kim west is here. No, Kim West has 4991. And the reason our VLOOKUP is not working basically the column that includes our lookup Because check this out, if I just right mouse which is the correct number. Okay, so keep that in mind. If you're gonna omit that last argument, make So I'm just gonna press Control + Z to go Now in this case because my data set is not gonna be sorted or not, make sure you put Now you can also put a zero instead of typing And here we get the correct number. Let's just check this by changing this to We have the right number. Now what happens if I wanted to get company I can just change this to a three. It's not working. Why? It's because my table array needs to be expanded Right, so even if in this case I don't care I can't give VLOOKUP different ranges, I have And whatever comes in between your lookup included in your table array argument. Now let's get to completing these reports. And the reason I have many names here is that So let's start off with VLOOKUP. And at first let's just not fix anything and Where's the lookup value? It's this one. Where are we looking things up? Well, let's just take a look, we want company So I'm just gonna highlight everything in So I can include the header or I can omit Now I'm not gonna fix it, I'm gonna move on Which is which one? It's number three. And I do want an exact match, so actually close bracket, and press Enter. So I get Inkly here. Let's double check. Robert Speer is Inkly. Okay, so now let's just push this down. I'm gonna double click here, and it works There's a problem here. I didn't fix this range and notice what happens It starts at A4 and we end here, which is But when I pull this down, that entire range And take a look at who I am looking up, it's So Gary Miller must be somewhere on top, which My lookup range has shifted down to here. It's not finding Gary Miller, so it's giving So the fixing is really important, make sure And you can do this by highlighting these Okay, so now let's push this down and we have So now what I could do to get the country adjust it. Or just make sure I do the fixing of this Or what a lot of people do is that they work So instead of them typing out this three here, So let's say three here and four here. This way they can just make one formula, do and down. So how would I update this formula and use Well, first off is this C6. When I pull this here, I don't want the column I want C to stay fixed here, but when I pull then eight, and nine. So this means I need to fix the column, but You can directly put in a dollar sign here a toggle. So if I click it again, and then again, the Now for this one, I wanna make this one dynamic How do I fix this one? Well, when I pull this over I actually want row to change when I'm pulling this down. So now I'm gonna press F4 again and fix it Okay, so I have a separate video on relative this is called. So if you're not sure about this, check out Now let's see if it works. I'm gonna pull this across, pull it down. Let's double check, for Wolfgang here we should So let's go and see, where we see Wolfgang, What a lot of people do is they hide these can just make them very light gray or make There is a way that you can avoid using these your formula directly, for example, using Okay, but that's just gonna get more advanced, of workbooks with other people in your team just better to keep things very simple. So if they wanna make an adjustment or change Okay, so let's move on to Report Two. Are these customers included in master data? Okay, so I get a bunch of code names, I wanna So I'm gonna start with VLOOKUP. My lookup value is this one. In this case, do I need to fix this? No, right, because I'm just gonna pull it Table array, what is it now? Well, I only wanna know if this customer ID highlight the values in this column. I have to fix it, then the next argument is I'm gonna put a one. So basically if it does find it, it returns And I'm also gonna go with false, because So let's push this down and I can see that And if you don't wanna see this hashtag N/A, So if the VLOOKUP formula results in an error, It should say add to master. Okay, so you can type in text, you can write doesn't find it in the master data. Now when I push this down, I can see this Some of you may ask what if you wanted to code? Instead of tweaking the VLOOKUP formula with use the Index and Match formula, which is of it, link is in the description below. Okay, so that's how the VLOOKUP formula works. Let me know in the comments below if you're if you're using helper cells for the column Thank you for watching and I'll see you in