HEATHER HEGEDUS: Hello there and today for Market Sense. I'm Heather Hegedus Following a post markets pulled back came after Fed Chair the Fed's not in any to cut interest rates further, showing some still elevated Also, another big Republicans also won control of their sweep, which could for President-elect to execute on some of his And a slew of been nominated, giving us a of what this administration of course, if those picks And the markets the potential implications So to talk about how be considering processing some we are always by Jurrien Timmer, of course, Macro. Plus, we're also to be welcoming Dirk He's the Managing Director of Research Team. And he'll be sharing with us his and geopolitics, Thank you both of you, DIRK HOFSCHIRE: Hi, Heather. Great to be here. JURRIEN TIMMER: A pleasure with the great Dirk. He's the master. HEATHER HEGEDUS: Really excited to hear You're both masters. And you're very humble. Today is Tuesday, November 19. And Jurrien, let's and let you catch because a lot has happened So we had our first show If you missed it, you can Now, it's been two weeks since reaction that happened the So, Jurrien, you are bigger than elections. What do we need JURRIEN TIMMER: Well, so it's It was obviously a It was known relatively quickly. And it's a good are brutally efficient all available information. And the big reaction shows that people have been because it was supposed And so there wasn't a lot discount. And then, of course, you And on November 6, that And so that's how works, whether it's a very like the S&amp;P 500. And what we know, for now, for the lack of a better of winners and losers. The market has broadened out. So the leadership added to other sectors more friendly or so financials, because energy, more drilling, if industrial policy sure Dirk will talk and a stronger dollar and and potentially fewer So that, I think, And I think we've been for the last two weeks. HEATHER HEGEDUS: had been expressing that I'd like to unpack a little yields, although showing signs of settling down. If we had to keep an eye out what would be the potential JURRIEN TIMMER: So the thing is, what might 2025 look back in 2017? How are the markets similar? How are they different? And in many ways, actually, looks kind of similar to 2017. So in 2017, from the to the end of 2017, so you had a very robust A good chunk of that came from cuts. But a good chunk came And this is how I tend There's a valuation component and then, of course, but they don't change very much. And so 2017 had kind and 2024 has been We're up 30%, 40% over And again, big participation Now, how does 2017 look Rates were much lower. The Fed was barely lifting Inflation was still And so it was a different This time around, inflation, The latest core CPI was at 3.3. Core PCE is at 2.7. Certainly improving on a rate elevated. And of course, bond what we call the is the risk premium for long and that's why And so my sense is that from being a good year But I think that those a repeat of '24, where it was from rising earnings It's hard for me to because the PE is already at 25, 30% from that would get us into HEATHER HEGEDUS: might be a little bit repeating Thank you for that. And of course, the for corporate earnings. It's the foundation Dirk, this is a good time Your team, the Asset focuses on studying the US cycle. So from your team's how is the economy And how much fuel do you has in the tank for further cycle? DIRK HOFSCHIRE: Yeah. Well, the economy is It's been pretty resilient Seems to have survived interest rates up quite a bit. Consumer remains strong. Labor markets are still tight. They've softened some but We're at near full employment. And you still have really good that Jurrien mentioned. So kind of stabilized and a pretty good So it's a pretty The expansion has It probably does have a little flavor, along with some mid, as here. So maybe not completely off to One of the things that is the inflation that So, yes, inflation And that disinflation story over has really been a and a terrific tailwind But we've seen kind And that stalling out is closer to a 3% ish compared to where the So it's not a go-go early It's maybe a more but still doing pretty well. HEATHER HEGEDUS: More mature. OK. So I want to, in a of the specific policies of the new Trump administration. But just a baseline question are presidential administrations we are in the business cycle? And are there any from this incoming that are on your radar have the potential to change the economy is on right now, Dirk? DIRK HOFSCHIRE: I think overexaggerate how to the economic cycle and to We get so inundated with all and everything. But if you look at probably a lot of are either unlucky or lucky, has a life of its own. The whole idea is there's between the free market consumers, businesses, as well aren't in the government, So I do think that and new administrations and but they have to make really And then it's probably less cycle and more about, as an And I think there are some that governments and can do this, especially So changing spending can have a difference. But there's other areas, And certainly with this we've heard a lot in trade or tariff policies HEATHER HEGEDUS: So it but not going to reverse things. Let's dig into some of the So the two potential that President-elect able to tackle quickly and are deregulation and So he has proposed tariffs of the world, 10% on to the US, 60% on Chinese goods. On deregulation, he's expected some of the Biden era via government agencies. How do you think affect markets and economies? And in turn, how might they and consumers? DIRK HOFSCHIRE: is generally positive It's positive for profits. It gets animal spirits going. You hope to see more So we'll see. It's always hard to When big regulatory changes But sometimes there's that you're or you're encouraging And so a lot of it show up in optimism surveys So we'll see over time. But certainly a more tone that people Tariffs, it's a The proponents of have a long-term is kind of similar in that a lot of unfair trading and others around the essentially want to raise the so that US companies will in the United States. But that takes time. So the first thing that is you have the which products are and where am I going to source Is there an alternative? So there's a lot that goes kind of contradicts, at least spirits because of And then over time, it just sort Some industries have substitutes that you can but sometimes you'll have and accept the import, and then profit margin or it has to pass and that's more inflationary. So not as positive And we'll just have to see implemented and staggered in and Because you could see maybe spirits up front, over time, if it takes a of a headwind for that. HEATHER HEGEDUS: could be pretty complicated. It's not cut and dry there. So as I mentioned know the GOP will have full of course, means a lot less trying to get some of his key One key piece of that will be taken up is the Tax Cuts and because parts are set to So extending tax cuts can have It gives people but it can also add to So pay me now or pay me later. Can you walk us how you think extending and even possibly expanding could impact the over both the short DIRK HOFSCHIRE: Sure. Let me just clarify So I think what we're cut extensions is mostly The president actually said many things a lot of taxes he wanted And I think if you think perspective first, the thing love to see the most is a And the president that he'd like to take them They were previously taken down from 35% to 21%. So we already saw a But that would have to be What you're talking about of tax cuts that's going to And that's mostly on the So there, if you it's not actually giving It's just not raising So you actually don't on the economy or on spending It would just be that you'd have that you'd have to somehow on the credit card. So when you put it what we're looking at from is a tremendous desire, stated or even lower them from here. The challenging part is, are you Because as I mentioned, talking about $4.5 trillion taxes. If you want to go going to have to either increase more amount or find some other HEATHER HEGEDUS: Yeah, on the topic of the because it seems like so far impacted the market But it sounds like you that this time Do I have that right? And what do you think that and consumers, if we do start the economy and the markets DIRK HOFSCHIRE: Well, it's The past couple of decades, when I mean, think about the long had with the Federal Reserve and was trading 2% or 3%, that for the government was So it wasn't just the markets but politicians And we just kept increasing But when you think back let's go back to the '80s or a time when markets did care policy because they cared They cared about how much new and actually pushed at times, where like they were going to expansionary or So I think we're more in now, where we have a near We have a very high as it's ever been in So tremendous fiscal at a much higher level. And so it really makes this House that we'll see how do you think about extensions and makes it much more And to the extent that it puts potentially, if it looks kind paid for, I think Because as we know, when over the past two, also seen volatility and it's had sort of an impact market system. JURRIEN TIMMER: Yeah. And I would just have to supposedly which are considered the a superior return. And so historically, stocks by 5% per year. And so if there were again through the term premium it would, the stock would have to reevaluate what to remain competitive. So it doesn't have a bull market for stocks, and it could interrupt create little tantrums, the HEATHER HEGEDUS: Something are closely watching. Let's talk also, we have time about President-elect Trump's And his immigration vastly different from those of Just to remind as the head of the is ultimately in immigration laws of the US. So he's promised to deport Dirk, how do you that could affect the labor Because I know, you mentioned and I know the labor that your team DIRK HOFSCHIRE: So around what to do with it's difficult to measure, don't, at any moment in how many people are here, But let's assume that are somewhat right. You've got at least several in the US economy So no matter how you feel about standpoint, those are people So the extent that does become sort of and you start grabbing and deporting them, that's It's also a problem that are already really, So that immigrant has helped the supply of and demographics are So it does have the potential provide not just some disruption into the business calculation. So not overly positive from but a lot will depend on of the plan that's carried out. HEATHER HEGEDUS: no question this new going to take a on certain aspects of too, Dirk. It's also coming when you have described the dangerous than it has Do you see this approach at all? Are there any takeaways or want to keep in the DIRK HOFSCHIRE: You know, I cycle, the president inherits And as you mentioned, the global landscape than it's been in decades. We have rivals, like that define themselves leadership in the world. And that's creating instability I don't think it changes I think we have two and Ukraine now that are likely to resolve. I think we're going to have and we'll see it in the trade as well. So I think hold a very different view of But I think the challenges And we'll have to be But even though there's a lot around the world, have a material or on the markets on HEATHER HEGEDUS: All And just to wrap it all for us, Jurrien, what are some learned about what we've talked since the election, lessons JURRIEN TIMMER: I think the and we saw this on November 6, new information able to adjust your portfolio. And that is as good a reminder these things. Just have a portfolio that can withstand some bumps, And the market's always so don't try to outsmart it. HEATHER HEGEDUS: I think to leave the discussion. Thank you, Dirk and Jurrien, unbiased, nonpartisan that you've supplied So I appreciate that. And a quick We're off next week so we will see you back in December at our regular time. We're always on Tuesdays On behalf of Jurrien I'm Heather Hegedus. Take care, everybody. [MUSIC PLAYING]