- Hi, I'm Linus Sebastian and you may remember me professing my love for LG's OLED like &quot;every other monitor is dead to me&quot; and &quot;My end-game gaming TV.&quot; Well, now that I've been daily driving one for the past few months, I'm going to show you and hopefully how to fix it. - What about today's - Ha ha, thanks Jamie. But you know, I would never forget to tell our viewers about Instantly see your past and detect malware and block or Android device with GlassWire, use offer code Linus and get When I reviewed the 48 inch I loved it, so much that as and returned mine, I dumped my old monitor set and all of the great stuff I its high refresh rate and make it among the best gaming And its inky blacks and make it super comfortable Be it movies, spreadsheets, the whites. That is why I'm still gonna have an affiliate link to it below. But before you click on that, this burn-in is a result of snapping my windows into the four corners of my display, a pretty common thing to and Wendell from Level1Techs, who has been daily driving one has also hit some snags. - It is amazing, but what's not amazing is that I'm starting to Hmm. It's unsettling. It's just - Yeah, mine too. But LG thought of that and with a feature that's built that I'm aware of, that Start now, hopefully that works. I guess we'll find out soon let's talk about burn-in a little more because there's a lot of including from us. On the one hand you've got manufacturers like LG saying it's not a you've got tech experts - I would say that with heavy use, you know, 6, 8, 10 hours a day, uh, you can only count on these maybe two. - What's the truth? As usual, But to understand why, we to start with the term, burn-in is a relic of the CRT days when your monitor was and your TV was the size of an oven. It's also a total because burn-in refers to ghost images that were quite literally burned into the luminescent on the back of the glass of Here's an example that is so having to even turn the TV on anymore. But we continue to use this term because even though the the behavior of modern So whether you're talking about a CRT, LCD, plasma or an OLED, if you display static or non-moving images for extended periods of time, you might eventually see them as ghosts that haunt your other content. So this type of image retention can affect nearly all The only difference is how for LCDs, which make up the majority we could more accurately as image retention, because it's typically losing their ability to easily We don't talk about it much though, because it's pretty uncommon. Unlike lttstore.com. We talk about that all the time. Look at this great desk pad. As for OLEDs, a more apt and that's because OLEDs don't have either a phosphor coating or any liquid crystals to get stuck. Each pixel of an OLED display, actually, each RGB sub pixel and from the moment it first and the brighter each one of the faster it will dim. Now, obviously this gradual weakening, isn't going to be too gets used exactly the same, but how likely is that to So to combat this educated OLED users can employ a number of tricks - I've been running this My OLED brightness has I left on the, you know, where it tries to detect a logo or, you know, like the start menu, and it's like, oh, let me - Those are some good tips, means that each pixel isn't blasting out as much light wearing itself out, logo compensation tries to surgically dim static like sports score bugs and screen shift or pixel shift, takes the whole onscreen image and tries to kind of move it around by in hopes of at least between the more burned out pixels and the less burned out ones. But as you saw, when we began this video, even a few months of use was all of those protections. My brightness by the way, and I also have pixel shift Let's take a look at Wow. Okay, hold on. Yeah. Is a lot better. It works, but there's bad news, the way it works is, it down the screen over a long period of time in an attempt to basically even out the wear on all the pixels, so you could think of this approach sort of like sanding out a Yes, the damage is far less noticeable, but only because you the wood around it. And as you'd expect this kind of thing, doesn't work forever. - The pixel refresh does help when you turn it off, it's supposed to automatically but I think it's kind of Text in certain areas, are not quite as sharp as it used to be, and I've got this sort in the middle of the screen because, you know, so in the middle of the screen. - Great. And even if pixel refresher there are some daily use that we should have caught in our review. One inconvenience is auto awake from sleep the so you'll have to manually turn it on every time you sit down at your computer, but that one's pretty minor compared to the auto-dimming issues that Barnacules has been struggling with. Now, I understand why LG is doing this, remember the whole burn-in thing? But when you've got three something as simple as dragging can cause one or more of the TVs to suddenly change their brightness from, I think I can see it to eye searing. Now I, on the other hand, I'm only running 1, 48 inch display and I only have to do my when I'm reading or editing a large document for an So, given that burn-in is a I'm content to leave But if you absolutely cannot tolerate it, there does appear to be a fix. And, ah, there it is. That's right, we've got it. This is the LG service technician remote that can supposedly access using the regular consumer one. All Ploof said was &quot;play with it.&quot; Shall we? Okay. Well, I mean, can you? Okay. You can do just regular stuff, like change an input. What's P check? Huh. Oh crap. Well, now what? Man, how much do I miss Instead of just having an input button that you have to click a bunch of times, just HDMI 2. HDMI 1. Dedicated button for that. I kind of just want this Can I Un-P check it? Sound check. Oh, picture check, picture check, and sound check, that's what it is. Man, there's so many buttons on here. What's P only. Ooh. Oh geez. There is a mode with the password. Here we go, boys. According to Reddit, it's 0-4-1-3. What's so special about that date, LG. And look how smart this is, see the IR meter is angled such that it'll just work if you're just like holding That's awesome. Menu. Oh, hello. This all looks like the regular menu. Whoa. Hi, in start. Whoa. And then we want, OLED. TPC enable, off. Wow. Whoa. Hi. Oh, look at that. HDR on, off. Just like that. I guess normal is auto. Man, this is the kind of get into the weeds tuning. And by the way, it would void so if you ever did need to or even update the firmware on your TV, it is strongly recommended that you return all of the service menu options Otherwise, I take no responsibility All right. And we're back. Now, is this? Is this This looks terrible, just a sec. Houston, we definitely have a problem. Oh, we're in vivid mode. I wonder if that's why it looks like crap. This still doesn't look quite right. It's horrible. And then the second I change this to HDR. I bet it's fixed. Yep. And perfect now. I am going to plug it Come on. Come on. Come on. It still looks like absolute dog crap. It's doing something I have no idea what. We're gonna put this all back to default. Exit, okay. Now, we are going to do a factory reset. I think I found it. I think I found it. I think it was just super resolution. Yeah, I thought that was off. But I wonder if it's where it was turned on and turned off. Cause we are in SDR right now and this looks fine. Huh. all right, good. It's back to normal, factory reset and then changing settings, even though they, changing them back doesn't We need to move on, because none of what supports LG's position, that Let's talk about that. The thing is, the OLEDs on my desks are not the only ones in my life, and the 77 inch G10 in my living room, has actually been there for about as long as Wendell has And in spite of being used but also games which are notorious for like speedometers, life it shows no signs of burn-in whatsoever. And you'll actually find from users online. So, it's clear that OLEDs absolutely can live long, healthy lives, absolutely crushing other technologies with their image quality. They just clearly require a level of TLC that other display technologies do not. This just means as much - I love OLED. Oh my goodness, this is with this kind of display technology. Back to you, Steve. Back to you, Linus. - I'm gonna have to be more careful who I invite to be a guest on the channel. I'm also gonna have to be more careful about my display because even though, by the way, the service menu thing does appear to have worked. These TVs are clearly best suited for customers with more And they're only suitable as monitors for deep pocketed enthusiasts who are willing to accept, either the downsides like the auto-dimming, or the cost of replacing And they'll also have to accept hearing about our sponsor Micro Center. Micro Center is one of for all your technology needs. They've got great prices and and everything else technology at 25 locations across the U.S. They have a growing lineup for small and medium-sized businesses featuring workstation and from Supermicro. They have experts on staff who can advise and make recommendations for why a server or business desktop or workstation is gonna be the right choice for your business. They offer services around including replacing components and providing technical support and new customers can check the link in the video description for a coupon code for a free 240 gigabyte SSD, no purchase necessary, in store only. Well, that was fun. By the way, if you enjoyed this video, maybe check out our video