- I've recreated Willy in real life. And one of these 10 with this chocolate factory. (all cheering) - [Jimmy] In we go. (all oohing and awing) - [Chris] Wow. - [Chandler] Yo. - Welcome to my wonderful creation. - Oh my gosh, it is Candy Land in here. Look at the river! - It's a chocolate door. (chomping sound) Oh he's taking a bite out of our door. - That's good. - [Jimmy] These 10 because they found a golden ticket when they bought one For our first challenge, we're You have a thousand seconds go hide. (all talking) - One, two, three, four. - [Contestant] Oh okay, we gotta go hide. Let's go. Let's go! - Oh, look at this Coca-Cola - Oh, yo dude. It's a marshmallow area, (all counting) - 201, 202, 5 - What about these? I don't know if I can fit in here, see ya! (lid clangs) Anyhow. - Hey, the factory's awesome. - This doesn't feel real at - Yo, what in the, what even is this area? (dramatic music) - Thousand, let's go! If I were to hide anywhere in Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory, I'd probably hide in the chocolate river. I don't feel like checking It's one of our side rooms - [Chandler] Cake. - [Jimmy] No, no. - [Chandler] I can't have any? - Obviously you can't without offices to manage it. No one in here. Let's go this way. - [Logan] Mm. Surely, - [Chris] I don't see anybody. - [Logan] Nobody's in here either. - And this is the Wollamhsram Room. - [Tareq] What are you saying right now? - That's marshmallow backwards. - [Tareq] Oh, okay. - Yeah, duh. - Jimmy, oh, we were We found this really awesome hiding spot. - Oh no. - Oh no. - [Jimmy] And it's the - [Chris] It's the cowboy. - No. - All right, this way, watch You've seen the movie before, right? - I have. - All right then you know - In the boat. - Don't ask me how but with a chocolate waterfall in (all saying bye) (gun Shots) - [Contestant] Bye Jimmy - Part, the waterfall. - I thought this was gonna stop, oh no. (both yelling) - The waterfall was supposed to part, but I guess that messed up. Our next challenge is on the I call it the Candy Wall of Death. Sounds a lot scarier than it is. Yes welcome! - My gosh - - So tall. - Welcome to the rock wall. (gong crashes) - I gave Chris a gong. The last person up the Contestants, are you ready? (all shouting) - Go! - [Chris] Go, go, go, go. - Okay. Oh we already have someone fall. Oh bro, that guy is - Woo. Are you all right, sir? - Appreciate it. - Let's go get up there. - How does he know how to climb candy? - Ah! - - Ah! - - For the Chocolate Factory! - [Chris] This ain't no normal prize, this is a whole factory. (gong crashes) - Ring the button, ring the button. (bell rings) - [Chris] Okay. - [Contestant] Yes sir! - [Female Contestant] Oh, I cannot. - Remember, our chocolate Actually the chocolate You gotta press the red button. [bells ringing] - Step on it. Step on - Don't let a Reese's Pieces - [Contestant] I can't. [all shouting] - [Jimmy] You can keep going. - (all shouting) - These two were unable So the only logical thing to Rock, paper, scissors, shoot! - Oh I got it. - Well, congratulations. Let's head over to the chocolate river. Here's an umbrella in case the - [Everyone] Bye! - [Chris] Who would've thought is not very practical? - And now that she's gone, Is everyone happy with their partners? - [Everyone] Yeah. - All right, Next challenge. And now we have the two Get out the way. - [Chris] Excuse me. - Matt Stonie and Joey Chestnut. (all cheering) And they're gonna demonstrate Bring out the chocolate, This is our chocolate bars And we have two brand new Feastables bars: milk chocolate and sea salt. Can you show us how to speed eat this? - Absolutely. - Yeah. - Hey, all you guys should take notes. (crunching sounds) - [Chris] That's insane. (slurping sounds) - I feel like I'm gonna (uptempo music) - I think you all get the gist, last team to eat the chocolate Begin the contest. - [Contestant] Go for it. - The challenge has officially started. Two people will lose. - You guys literally Shove it in your mouth and - Chew and swallow, chew and swallow. Water's your best friend. Keep it going. - Keep it going in your mouth. - I think they've made - I'm lactose intolerant. (squeaky laughter) - That's dark chocolate, So you're good. - I'm good. - [Logan] There's a chocolate - I've been trying really This is like counterproductive. - It's getting hot. - You doing okay? - Bro, you're sweating, (mumbling) (dramatic music) - They are officially our first winners. - Yeah - - You technically haven't (swallowing hard) - We got our first winners over there. - It doesn't matter who wins. It just matters who loses. - Come on you got this - That team was in last place. Now they're gonna come - You got plenty of time. Just focus on getting it down, mouth open. Hey, we got it! - Yes! - Those two guys are getting close. It's kind of now or never for you guys. - They are about ready to finish. You guys have to go fast right now. - Slam it back - Right now! - Chris, are they are they - They're chewing, they're - Swallow it, swallow it and you can win. - First one to clear, we gotta - All right, his mouth's - Get it out, get it out. Yeah. Got it. - His mouth's empty, so done. - Oh yeah! - So close! - The chocolate's amazing. But at a portion, oh my God. - To the chocolate river. Goodbye. - What's it like being after eating a pound of chocolate? - I don't know. - Make sure you watch the end special surprise guest And now the final six And can you guys take your blindfolds off and look to the right? This is the one's largest bottle of Coke. Chandler, can you hold my cane? - Yes. (claps hands) - [Jimmy] And there we - How'd I get up here? - If you land the world's largest Mento in the world's largest Don't forget this building, everything you know is on the line. - This is half a million dollars. - Well, I mean, if not more. - Uh. - - In, in the bottle. - Yes. In the bottle. - No, no, no, no, in! - Let's see how many times we Don't forget if you make whether or not you want - First try. - I think that was the worst one yet. [Dramatic Music] - [Everyone] Oh! - In and out! - [Chandler] This is it, this is the one. - [Everyone] Yeah! - Let's go! (all cheering) - It flew so high. - Whoever wins the Chocolate Factory, you might have a, a Since he was the one that made the shot, he gets to pick who's eliminated, look at these five people right here. - Oh, this is hard. - I mean, it could be you if you want. - No, I think I'll pass on that, (all laughing) Eric, I'm sorry. (crowd groans) - I don't know I'm, please forgive me man. - Well, you know what that This is a smaller version of And if you look right here, Here you go, you can sell it - You better win this now. - I'm sorry, man, I'm sorry. - If you're wondering where that goes. I don't even know, next challenge. Now we're in a room Dive on the floor. (Logan grunts) Did that hurt? - No, not at all. - And in front of each of the contest, I don't trust you with the flamethrower. Can you stand just a little more that way. And in front of each contestants, it's a little peppermint The challenge has officially begun. Whoever falls off first loses. - Do you feel bad about what you did? - I feel awful. - All right, just step off it. - No, I won't do it. - You can do it - No. - Don't push. - Currently they're not spinning. So let's move this here. Now they're spinning just a - Pretty fine - Pretty good? - Good so far. - Whoa. - I think he was making fun of it. You want me to ramp it up? - I dare you. - All right, we're ramping it up. Now they're spinning faster. They all kinda look like MPCs, you know, in the character You know what I mean? If you step here, step it'll help you with the sickness. Like 'cause you don't have to spin, you can just step in place. - Don't trust Jimmy. I don't trust that. - That seems scary. Oh, oh. (everyone yelling) - What do you do now? (everyone yelling) - Why did that hit me in the head? - Even though he got out, I wanna show you guys I spent a lot of money on this. - [Jimmy] Look at him over there. - Ah! - I can't feel my toes. - To the river. Before you step in the boat, I need you to assign them a number. One through four to each - Dallin. - - Okay, so who's number two? - Justin. - Number three? - Brian - Are you just going - I really am. - Oh, that's cheap. All right, fine, get in the boat. - One last sweet treat - Ah, thank you. Watch you fall in. - That could determine who Let's show you why that's relevant. There's four toilets behind me. Three are real, ones made of a cake. Whichever person picks the - So if they're right they're wrong? - No, they have to be - [Jimmy] I'm not joking. One of those toilets is and whoever picks the cake toilet loses the chocolate factory. We're gonna start things off Take your blindfold off, Five, four, three, two - Two. - Alight. So you're picking toilet number two. Stand in front of it and face this way. Now we have number two, are you ready? - Yep. - Take the blindfold off. Five, four, three, - [Contestant] One. - Okay, go for it. Alight, that leaves only Five, four, three, two - Three - Okay, you pick toilet number three. So I hate to break the news to you, but there's only one toilet left. So you can just go walk in front of it. Three of these toilets are real. One is made of cake, (intense music) - Oh. - - Everyone his toilet - [Contestant] No, man. - Oh my God the cane. - The cane is no more. I don't know if you guys have but this took forever. - Can you flush that? [Everyone Laughs] - You know the deal, on the bridge. - Better you than me dude. - [Jimmy] Oh my God. - Sorry, but you had to go at some point, if I was gonna win. - Have fun in Arizona, I'll - {Jimmy} Oh my gosh. - Oh, I don't know if - Hey, don't worry Jimmy. Being a boat captain's a piece of cake. (strong base) - And we have one final challenge left that will decide which with this chocolate factory. We have these three contestants. And what better person to a chocolate factory than, come on in, Gordon Ramsey, turn around. - Oh my gosh. - - How's it going man? And as you're probably guessing, the final challenge is a cooking challenge and they have 45 minutes to make a dessert for Gordon Ramsey to judge. He'll be judging on looks and taste, Begin! (clicking timer) - Yes - - Don't forget a chocolate I don't normally do these - So this is tough on them, by the way, for the finale, they That's that's, - [Jimmy] That's not a lot of time? - That's not a lot of time. - Oh I just made up a random number. - Right, goodness how are we doing? - I have no idea. I'm just, - You have no idea? - I'm looking at to figure out what everything is. - So you've never done this recipe before? - I don't know how to cook, (Jimmy laughing) - What are you working on? - I need to make a cheesecake, Probably shouldn't put that on the stove. (both giggling) - I'm starting off with a funfetti cake. - How much chocolate you putting in there? - I'm gonna keep the chocolate It's gonna come in at a later moment. - A later moment? We haven't got much time. - A little stressed out right now. - Are you okay? - I'm good. I'm good. - He makes everything so - What's the dessert? Look at me, you've done nothing yet. - There's, there's a few - A few different ones? - Yes. - You have 45 minutes. Can you work and talk at the same time? - I was about to say the same thing. - I probably should. (all chattering) - Honestly, I don't even know what to do. Gordon just kind of took over - Just over 20 minutes, halfway guys, halfway to a amazing chocolate factory. - When I win this chocolate factory, do you wanna buy it off of me? (both laughing) - I'm gonna see what you make first. - Oh my gosh the cockiness. He decides whether or not you - Oh I know, I'm aware. - Hey psst. - Yes. - Turn the gas on. - I probably should. - Yeah, oh my God. - Did you know how to - Uh I have, but not with no instructions. - Here we go. - Lets go champ. - Gotta get this in here. (people laughing) (torch firing) - You're burning the mat. The mat is burning. - Oh shoot, you're right! Just a light flame, that's - So we're, we're good - And I don't think - I don't know. We're we're gonna find out though. - Oh my god. - Don't come over here, Gordon. - What have you done there? - I don't know. - It looks like you cooked it, ate it, then threw it back up. - Oh man. - I think Gordon's - Two minutes. - Hey, you want me to - Uh no, not yet. - All right, how about now? - Not yet. - Stop harassing the contestants. - What Gordon's gonna want like you put in a lot of effort. So if you start using adjectives I put the nerds rope contradicts the chocolate really lets you. - Shut it down, 15 seconds to go. - Three (crashing dishes) - Oh my gosh. - Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, Come on Christian. Five, four, three, two, one. And stop, hands in the air. - [Jimmy] Done. Gordon will now begin He's gonna give him a score one outta 10 on looks and a score one outta 10, based on how it tastes. Person with the highest score at the end wins the chocolate factory. - Justin, describe the dish. - This is Rocky Road on a cone. I melted the marshmallows on top. I had a marshmallow at the what to do at the bottom, so. (all laughing) - I don't what looks worse. The one at the bottom or the one on top. (all laughing) So visually it looks a - I'll take that. - It looks like you've dropped it. I'm gonna give that a Wow. How do we, does this - Yeah, one honest bite. (spits out bite) - Oh, well. (laughing) (explosive sound) (loud laughing) - Five. - Five. So 10 total. - 10 total. - All right. It's a 10 of 20. So. - It looks like a bum's got - No it looked great before somehow managed to ruin - On top I have a whipped cream. That's actually melted. It's not there anymore. And then I've got on top of coconut covered, - Have you ever heard the word stop? (Jimmy laughing) Less is More? - I was - Yes. - Yeah, so visually it looks a mess. Three outta 10, Taste wise, what's the liquid? Why is it gone all liq.. What do you do? - The syrup flooded out and - It's good? - No, it's not, I know, It's not. - What did you put in there? I'm gonna give that a five. - All right, you have - Thank you guys, it was a lot of fun. It was really nice to meet you. - Likewise, likewise. - You know, just for that, for coming out. (people clapping) - Thank you so much. - All right, but you - Bye guys. - All right, so I've chocolate river from the Willy in the middle that goes Had to add a lot of color. There's a lot of color in the factory. - Visually. I think this looks the best. - I like the story. So visually it's it's a - You only had 10. It's already close and - Sponge the funfetti is always better, light fluffy, but I'm nervous. - Yeah? - What do you think? I can't tell if he's about or like, oh, it was decent. - Right there. - Oh my gosh. - Is a seven out 10, congratulations. - Yes. (all celebrating) - That's it, Congratulations. - Congratulations, - Here's the deed. - He just won this Chocolate Factory. - It's all mine! - To celebrate our launch of we went out, we bought and all these prizes And prizes aside, unlike Hershey's, these bars only have and just genuinely taste good. Go to feastables.com right Only problem is the chocolate All the candy is going bad. There's probably a million flies in there and it costs a lot of money to upkeep, so I'll be right back. Right here is half a Will you sell me your half a million dollars? 'Cause if not, it's over a hundred grand a year to maintain. - I've never seen so Will you buy this off of me? - Yes. - For half a million dollars? - Oh, of course right here. - This is mine. - If you hand me this, you can - I officially hand it to you. - Okay. - Yes! - - This is mine, oh my god! (Explosion) Mr. Beast, oh (explosion)