The period between the end of the American 1865 through to 1900) in the United States known as the Gilded Age. During the 1870s and 1880s, the U.S. economy history, with real wages, wealth, GDP, and The rapid pace of industrialization led to This growth meant that American wages were for skilled workers, which drew in millions The growth of railroads across the United could happen. Millions of acres of land became feasible providing a long-distance outlet for wheat, Europe. Shipping live animals was slow and expensive, mid-west that could ship meat in refrigerated The railcars were cooled by slabs of ice that stored for use in the warmer times of the During the gilded age, the output of grain by 800% and miles of railway track by 570%. National networks for transportation and communication dominant form of business organization. Wealthy industrialists like Vanderbilt, Rockefeller of the United States becoming fabulously wealthy barons&quot; by their critics, who argued that the working class. Mom and pop businesses weren't going to oil refineries. A single mile of rail track cost more to install So, although workers' wages were rising associated with scale, and wealth inequality The term "The Gilded Age" was actually It came into use in the 1920's, taken from It was a pejorative term used to describe The idea was that the promised "golden age" problems masked by the thin gold gilding of Admirers of the gilded age industrialists however and see these men not as Robber Barons the nation's economy and the non-profit This focus on philanthropy differentiated time mostly held on to their wealth passing Andrew Carnegie donated over 90% of his wealth duty of great industrialists. Rockefeller donated over half of his entire These donations endowed thousands of colleges, venues, public libraries, and charities. When we look at modern American billionaires group, as many are very active philanthropists At the age of 11, Cornelius Vanderbilt quit cargo in New York. By the age of 16 he was able to buy his own who had lent him some of the money. Through aggressive marketing, shrewd deal that would stick with him all his life--he Vanderbilt was quick to recognize the importance growing country. He realized that infrastructure was needed would provide it. Over the next 40 years, he built the largest Right before the Civil War Vanderbilt realized technology. He sold all of his ships and invested everything which allowed cheap and efficient transportation times, and linked up all of the parts of the As he was building out his railroads, he came Railroad Company, a much larger firm who refused At 72 years old, he was 30 years past the saw him as an old man well past his prime. Unfortunately for them, Vanderbilt owned the The gateway to the country's largest port. Vanderbilt refused to allow their trains to his competitors and the nation's busiest When news that their trains were cut off reached collapsed in value. As the insiders dumped their shares, Vanderbilt In just days, Vanderbilt took control of his company in America. Rather than being past his prime, Vanderbilt He eventually went on to own 40% of the nation's in America, with a net worth of over $100 The railroad boom saw new tracks crisscrossing commerce to flow in a way that was previously The new industry provided over 180,000 jobs allowed the industrial and agricultural economies In 1869 near the peak of his success, Vanderbilt that would bring his three railroads together. He built it, in a relatively remote and undeveloped of commerce. Thousands of workers were employed over the project America had ever seen. Grand Central - his train station - was at the time, and the biggest train station It might surprise New Yorkers today to hear outskirts of the city, in fact Vanderbilts in such a remote location. But this just shows how much of an impact the rest of the country. Grand Central was, (and still is) a wonderful of the rail industry at the time it was built, generated in the country. In 1870 Vanderbilt began looking for a new The big money in the rail industry was in At the time whale oil was the main fuel used But a new fuel - kerosene - was beginning Vanderbilt wanted his railroads to be involved John D. Rockefeller (an oilman out of Ohio) businessmen refine it. He knew that if he could control refining, At the age of 24, using borrowed money Rockefeller one of Vanderbilt's train lines. Rockefeller was the son of an actual Con-Artist oil salesman, who was rarely home. Rockefeller didn't like his father and was He was a deeply religious man who never drank income to charity. John D. Rockefeller believed in thriftiness, from his mother. His father boasted in later years that he to keep him sharp. Rockefeller when he was older used to tell him to &quot;make as much money as he could, and He claimed that at that moment, (as a child) He believed very firmly that God wanted him a better place. His business success was quite simply "Gods Refineries at the time took crude oil and up around 60% of the crude oil). They would then dump the remaining 40 percent piles, polluting the local environment. Both drilling and refining at the time were Rockefeller (more due to his thrifty nature so unlike other refiners none of the oil or He used some of the waste products to fuel The rest was turned into lubricating oil, for paving roads. Rockefeller ran the most efficient and profitable Rockefeller was a relentless cost cutter. He manufactured his own pipes and his own His oil was of high and consistent quality, Why that name? Well, Because Standard Oil was the only company quality of kerosene. Vanderbilt (of course) wanted to meet this refinery in Cleveland meant that Standard railroads. An exclusive deal with Rockefeller would mean When they met, Rockefeller negotiated an - unheard but agreed to ship more oil than he was actually Rockefeller had to scramble to increase the his side of the bargain. It turned out that if there was one thing size of his business. Having struck this deal, Rockefeller now had He was selling a high-quality branded product Additionally, he had more efficient operations else in the industry. He could produce a better product than his He quickly set about buying up every competitor Rockefeller would buy out the least efficient the efficiency of their operations, or just He would push for discounts on oil shipments, of secret deals to get any advantage he could In less than four months in 1872, in what Standard Oil absorbed 22 of its 26 Cleveland Standard Oil rapidly became the largest producer and his deal with Vanderbilt meant that he the country at incredibly cheap rates. Rockefeller's efforts made him rich, but they and other oil by-products than had been available Before 1870, oil light something only the Over the following decade, kerosene became classes. The availability of affordable lighting provided It helped reduce crime after sundown, it extended productive than before, and it allowed average the evenings which had never previously been Over time Rockerfeller found himself producing He had outgrown his deal. Vanderbilt's biggest competitor was a man Pennsylvania Railroad Company. Scott along with his protege, a young Scotsman a better transportation deal than he could To Vanderbilts great frustration, Rockefeller each other, negotiating lower and lower transportation With the railroads under his thumb, Rockefeller kerosene. And with all of that profit, Rockefeller began up oil wells, equipment makers - the entire At the age of 33, John D Rockefeller was now Vanderbilt and Scott realized (maybe a bit created a monster. They decided that the only way to combat Rockefeller and fixing prices. They decided to cooperate with each other deals. To Rockefeller, this is an absolute declaration beat him with a dirty trick like that. In the refineries, oil was moved around over Rockefeller had hired his own plumbers to Rockefeller realized that if those pipes could possibly also transport oil over longer distances. If Rockefeller could build a pipeline large out of the oil business altogether. Now, oil pipelines had been attempted before, flow if the pipe was not airtight, and this Additionally lots of pumping stations would it flowing. Stitching together hundreds of pieces of metal, seemed an impossible task. Nonetheless, Rockefeller hired the best and his workers began to work around the clock, every day. By the time Rockefellers pipeline was finished, thousands of the world's most lucrative oil He had brought an end to the influence of the way energy products are transported. Now, Thomas Scott still controlled the railway didn't yet reach. The two men (who by this point hated each costs. Rockefeller (unwilling to give an inch) shut This move, cost Rockefeller a fortune, but Scott was forced to lay off tens of thousands order to stay in business at all. Railroad workers reacted to the cuts by going The city was the epicenter of the worst violence of 1877. More than 39 buildings and over a thousand and Thomas Scott's company was ruined. For 25 years, railroads had been the biggest who could raise money had done so and had Rockefeller's oil had made up nearly 40% of was suddenly transitioning to pipelines. There had been a huge railroad investment losing cargo meant losing money. Railroad companies began going bankrupt. Vanderbilt was well capitalized and was able He died in 1877, with an estimated net worth Scott died a year later in 1878 with his business The depression lasted until 1879 and by the companies had gone bankrupt. The railroad-based economy of the United States During the depression that was brought about the rail industry, Rockefeller managed to He bought up Scotts rail assets at rock bottom Rockefeller described it as the most difficult, In the aftermath, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania the oil trade. This was an accusation he would find himself of his life. Despite improving the quality and availability cost to the general public (the price of kerosene had entered the business), Standard Oil's controversy. Rockefeller was attacked by the press and practices, giving momentum to the antitrust Rockefeller by this point controlled 90% of He owned oil wells, pipelines, refineries, His company, Standard Oil was the nation's He wasn't done though, in the 1890s, Rockefeller business, leading to a collision with Andrew Andrew Carnegie - the man who would one day up in poverty in Scotland. His father was a hand loom weaver who was looms. At the age of 12, Carnegie arrived in the a better life. He and his father first began working for Later Andrew got a job at a telegraph company for the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, where By the age of 24 he was made the superintendent for such a young man. After a few years, Carnegie left the Pennsylvania Company. His success building bridges was tied to his as the railroads not only needed bridges built, the necessary steel, and Carnegie could negotiate When Carnegie first heard of James Eads' plans at St. Louis, he fought to win the contract. It was an extremely complex and important A bridge spanning the Mississippi River would like never before. It would allow trains to take a more direct unload cargo onto ferries and reload the cargo The Eads Bridge would be the first bridge River. It was also an important proof-of-concept When the bridge was completed, it became the of any type" and revolutionized the way Eads secured 47 patents during his lifetime of the bridge's structure and devices for To deal with the size and the power of the be built out of structural steel rather than for large structures up until that point. The bridge's foundations were the deepest time and were installed using pneumatic caissons. Its center arch was the longest rigid span The method of constructing the arches is cited for a large bridge. These engineering principles were later used construction a few years later. Recognizing its future, Carnegie turned his At the time steel was extremely expensive For this reason it was mostly used to make One of Carnegies innovations was the cheap improving on the Bessemer process, which allowed burnt away during steel production. Steel prices dropped as a result of this innovation, now that it was affordable and more easily Sprawled over 100 acres just outside of Pittsburgh, nation. It was capable of rolling out 225 tons of His biggest customers were of course the railroads, to Rockefellers new pipelines the railroads Desperate for a new market, Carnegie noticed like Chicago and New York. Buildings were going up as quickly as possible, industry was not in rails but in structural used to build skyscrapers. When the world's first skyscraper was built Its thin brick walls hung on a structure manufactured Over the next few years, over 100,000 new The modern American city was built using Carnegie Carnegie one of the wealthiest men in the Efficiency became Carnegie's focus. He introduced every cost-cutting innovation more steel than all of Great Britain was. Much like Rockefeller, Carnegie began vertically As he grew, he went on to control the most ever owned by an individual. His success did come at a cost though. He had been very vocal about the rights of laborers in his steel mills worked twelve-hour conditions. When industrial unrest stopped work at his who was visiting family in Scotland at the out the workers and hired armed Pinkerton workers. In the conflict that followed, twelve people Although Carnegie won the battle, he emerged In 1900 the 64-year-old Carnegie sold his for $480 million. Morgan shook on the deal saying, &quot;Congratulations, in the world.&quot; Carnegie spent the rest of his life giving He had written an essay entitled &quot;Wealth,&quot; wealthy man were to live modestly and to use &quot;The man who dies rich,&quot; according to Carnegie Carnegie spent a large portion of his wealth and supporting universities and colleges. By the time of his death in 1919, Carnegie Rockefeller and his son continued consolidating At that point, Standard oil had a 70% market The business had grown significantly due to been adopted in part as an environmental response in dense urban environments. Cities had become unlivable due to the buildup of health problems. In 1911 the Supreme Court found Standard Oil The court ruled that the trust engaged in to be broken up into 34 new companies. Most of the big oil companies that you have Oil. Once he retired, Rockefeller, who had always dollars to various educational, religious, He funded the establishment of the University He passed away in 1937 at 97 years old. So how wealthy were the robber barons? Well, of the group, Rockefeller was the wealthiest He was worth around 1.5 billion dollars by If we inflation adjust that number, it becomes But that inflation adjustment calculation in a bank account earning the risk-free rate Rockefeller didn't have his money in cash, industry. Rockefellers wealth was 1.5% of American GDP Today, a man whose wealth was 1.5% of American According to this metric he was (and still and economic history. Today Elon Musk is the wealthiest American is worth 100 billion dollars after having Neither really come close to the wealth of The robber barons were extremely wealthy, nation as a whole. The businesses they built turned the United power. They didn't grow wealthy through government At the time, government spending came to less the US government just didn't have the ability Their efficient operations made them rich, commodities for all Americans. Farmers across the country benefitted from bring their goods to market. The price of kerosene declined by two-thirds allowed for greater profits at lower prices. The price of steel fell too over the same on innovative processes and efficiency. Although the gilded age industrialists wanted they could, they also provided jobs for millions Their demand for labor pushed incomes in the time which attracted millions of workers to These workers flooded to America at a time they heard from friends and family of the the new world. There is almost no period in human history widespread an increase in well-being as during Monopolies are bad for the economy. They are bad for customers and for workers, and can keep prices high and wages low. Around the turn of the century, new laws were and that had become necessary because of the While these men were far from being perfect, them as robber barons. That title came from a book called "The journalist who wrote the book in 1934 in the In his book he points at all profits as evidence The myth of the robber baron comes from the another man's loss. When you examine the lives of the 19th century individuals, but they built the modern economy as a whole, considerably richer. If you enjoyed this video, you should watch Have a great week and talk to you again soon. Bye.