hello. I'm BooneBake. Today I will make a round fruit jelly cake. Now, please enjoy the video. First, we will make cheese balls in 4 flavors. I made 4 flavors... There may be two. Feel free to use whatever fruit puree you have on hand. The gelatin was soaked and dissolved in advance. Mix the whipped cream. After checking the total amount of dough... Subtract the weight of the bowl and divide by 4. It's like math class. I divided it into about 110g each. Add the puree. It's a mold with a diameter of 25mm. This mold is for freezing ice. Please make sure there are no gaps. 3~4 hours in the freezer. The color of the kiwi puree is very pretty. I love the scent of mango puree. 3~4 hours in the freezer. It has been soaked for about 20 minutes. Prepare warm water. (65C/150F) Please dissolve the gelatin. Let cool down to 27C (80F) Soak it in warm water for about 10 seconds. It is a hemispherical mold with a diameter of 8cm. Freely release the fruit. orange confit Add fruit cheese balls as well. Pour it full of jelly. Press it down with the tray. 4~5 hours in the refrigerator. Add fruit and cheese balls. &gt; Do not fill the second mold with jelly. Pour it out leaving about 5mm. 4~5 hours in the refrigerator. Soak it in hot water for about 8 to 10 seconds. (70C,158F) Fill the second mold with jelly. Wipe off the jelly that spills out. 1-2 hours in the refrigerator Take it out carefully. Isn't it so beautiful? Subscriptions and likes are of great help to me. Today, I looked at jelly on a delicious strawberry roll cake. The taste and design are fantastic. The bouncy jelly was made without using a special mold. It's even more fantastic because it's made in beautiful rainbow colors. I think rainbow is a color that always brings excitement. The rainbow was even more beautiful when it was wrapped around a round roll cake. The roll cake is very moist and soft. The vanilla sponge I'm making now is really fluffy. It was made without using many ingredients, but it was delicious. It goes very well with milk cream. Set it aside for a moment. Make meringue. Add the sugar in three parts. Pour it into the mold. 13-15 minutes at 165C. (330F) Please give me just one piece of seaweed. Cut diagonally. Cut diagonally in the same direction. Make milk cream. Adding condensed milk makes the milk taste richer. Whip thoroughly. This much... Apply cream evenly to 1/3 of the body. I'm going to put strawberries about 1/3 of the way. Trim the strawberries. Cover the cream and secure the strawberries. Use a ruler to pull it tight. You can roll it into a round shape using a silicone cutting board. 1 hour in the refrigerator. You need a thick straw. Wrap the bottom with kitchen wrap. Secure it with transparent tape. You will need approximately 24. It's konjac. For a detailed explanation of konjac, please refer to the explanation box in the original video. When combined with sugar, it does not clump together. If the elasticity of konjac is low... Small amounts of carrageenan can be added. Carrageenan plays a role in increasing viscosity. Make pretty colors with food coloring. After it starts to boil, boil for about 1 more minute. Pour slowly into the straw. 1 hour in the refrigerator. This is a cream that will stick the roll cake and jelly together. I tried making it with whipped cream too... The cream has a lot of moisture so the jelly melts. So it's cumbersome, but the cream make it separately. But the method of making it and the recipe are very simple. Be sure to mix the gelatin this way. Otherwise, the gelatin is likely to clump together. Cream whipped to 80% volume. A tense moment~! Did the cake dry well into a round shape? You are pretty :) Let me take the jelly out of the straw. It comes off very easily. Getting the jelly out is a lot of fun :) Press down firmly on the top. Then pull the bottom part. Pretty, right? Now wrap the cake. Place in the refrigerator for 3-4 hours. The fantastic rainbow roll cake is complete. Ta-da! Did you enjoy the video? Please subscribe and like. It's been a while since I made a fruit jelly cake. The round shape is so cute. If you like melons and mangoes, try making them. First, pour water into the gelatin and soak it. 30 minutes in the freezer. This is gelatin that was soaked in advance. Soak in hot water to dissolve. Beat the cream cheese until there are no lumps. Add yogurt and lemon juice for a fresh taste. Add dissolved gelatin as well. I used an ice freezing mold I had at home. I poured about 265g. I think it would be best to make the cheese balls the day before. 2~3 hours in the freezer. Add mango puree. I tasted it a little bit... and it's delicious just like that. 2~3 hours in the freezer. Pour in all remaining cream cheese batter. 30minutes in the freezer. Lemon flavored jelly I used gelatin leaves to give it a more transparent feel. Soak in ice water for about 15 to 20 minutes. If the gelatin is fully soaked... Squeeze out the water. Please dissolve the sugar well. Cool down to 28C (82F) It has a pretty round shape. You can eat the remaining fruit as is. You can also make juice and eat it. I added my favorite dragon fruit. I think dragon fruit goes well with yogurt or cheesecake. I will write the explanation about dragon fruit in the description box of the original video. 3 minutes in the refrigerator 3 minutes in the refrigerator 4-5 hours in the refrigerator It looks even brighter and more beautiful in person. Subscriptions and likes are of great help to me. It is very delicious. Today I made a cake using a whole watermelon. AKA, watermelon jelly cheesecake. When I saw the round watermelon, I wanted to try rolling it. Playfulness activated ~~!! When you cut a watermelon, the "snapping" sound is pleasant. The crunching sound is also nice. My voice comes out in the middle of the video for the first time in a while. So don't be surprised. This video has a lot of behind-the-scenes footage. So please watch until the end. Add watermelon juice generously. I removed the watermelon seeds. Watermelon and strawberries go very well together. Strawberries are pureed. We will also make cake inserts and jelly on the outside using watermelon juice. Add watermelon and strawberries to make juice. I'm going to make an insert to put inside the cheesecake. Lemon juice maximizes the taste. Gelatin was prepared by soaking it in advance and then melting it. Pour into a hemispherical mold and freeze. Freeze for 2-3 hours. This time it's watermelon jelly, which is the top part of the cake. You need watermelon juice with the fiber removed. Pour into a hemispherical mold with a diameter of 7cm. Pour about 60g each. Refrigerate 1-2 hours Take the cream cheese out to room temperature about 30 minutes before using. Mix the gelatin as shown in the video. Then you can make a cake with good texture. The heavy cream was whipped to 60% volume. Scrape to ensure it adheres well to the cheesecake. Refrigerate for 5 to 6 hours. Make light green with food coloring/ I added melon, which goes well with watermelon, as syrup. We'll make a dark green paste for the watermelon stripes. I wonder if the color will be like this~~~ Make watermelon stripes. Make it crooked with a sharp object. Freeze for 10 minutes. Remove the insert from the mold in advance. Shall we fill it with cream? Freeze for 2-3 hours. Comeback 3 hours later. Ta-da! So cute, right? It's a mini watermelon. Oh~! My god... Thank you for watching.