Transcriber: Reiko Bovee Ok, let me talk about mathematics. I am sure all of you love math, yeah? Not so much? Well, Honestly speaking, Not so many. That's good! Actually I think that some people that math is all about numbers and other boring stuff. Let me tell you. That's not true. Here's this famous joke: there was a famous mathematician He is a very famous mathematician, &quot;the father of arithmetics,&quot; But actually, he wasn't so good Once in a lecture, he was giving a class, So he was writing on the blackboard One of his students said, &quot;it's 61, sir,&quot; And then Kummer said, &quot;Come on! It can't be both 61 and 69. This is supposed to be funny. So not all mathematicians He is a famous number theorist. Anyway, math is not just about numbers. And I can keep on talking about math for like a day or a week if you wish. Every day there's a new theory improved, every day a new idea, Math is a totally endless, It's a little bit like music. For example, what's cool depends on which culture and For example, some people think Well, maybe you don't know Some people think Set Theory Yeah, wow. And in some countries, some people are good and some countries So math is not as rigid But the biggest difference is that in the world of music, who create music and make music, there are wonderful players So you have Bach, Beethoven, Mozart. All the great composers but we get access to this music Glenn Gould and Yo-Yo Ma and so we can get access to beautiful music. But in the world of math, unfortunately, there are great composers; but no one plays math. So, the world, the beauty of mathematics to professional mathematicians. I want to change this a little bit. Actually, three years ago, At places like this hall, restaurants and non-mathematicians And I wish that not only me so that the beautiful world of mathematics Anyway, let's get back to the subject. Then what is it about? Mathematics is called Su means &quot;numbers&quot;; So sugaku means &quot;the study of numbers.&quot; And I don't think because it gives the impression that mathematics is But the word mathematics originally &quot;ta mathemata.&quot; Ta mathemata means but it's not the taking It's the taking So we usually take something but ta mathemata means but the taking is the taking This is difficult. In other words, means the taking of what you already have So what does that mean? There is a Japanese mathematician I hope everyone will remember his name He used to be in Kyoto. He is one of the world's most known And Oka was actually so great that Oka was the name of a group. They couldn't believe that Just one single person did all this job. Oka was not just a great mathematician; but he was also a profound thinker, He has left some great quotes on the nature of mathematics, In particular, he repeatedly said of the first number one. Well, obviously numbers in mathematics. But if you try to explain or what the first number one is no matter how hard you try you'll never be able to explain the existence of the number one, We simply believe it. It's the believing of something Without this power of our mind, math will be totally groundless, So at first sight, math seems and logic and all that stuff, there's a huge dimension in our minds So at the heart of mathematics, there's not logic, but there's a huge dimension which Oka Kiyoshi called &quot;Joocho.&quot; Joocho is a difficult Japanese word. I was looking for a good English word but unfortunately So let's just call this Joocho. (Laughter) So in Oka's terms, math is not about calculation; math is about joocho. It's the very act of looking well, encountering with your own self, encountering with your own So if you want to do mathematics, It doesn't have to be a difficult one. You don't even have to prove Just pick up a problem; and concentrate on it; Don't look at the answers. Keep on thinking about the problem Then you have to be patient; Being patient and keeping attention During this mindfulness, you find yourself And if you are lucky enough, in the sea of Joocho inside your mind. Well, try this if you have time. So this is a very short presentation And basically I only have one message. Math is not about numbers; math is not just about logic; math is the very act of looking and encountering with your inner self with your inner rich So in this sense everybody, including you, Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you.