Welcome back, citizens! Recently, you learned a introduced to the Electoral College system. You process is a complicated system that was put into changing the original election procedure. included a similar structure but resulted in a VP with different political beliefs, Our founding fathers recognized The result is a system that has been used in every has, at times, fallen under criticism. Even today, the Electoral College works. Let's work today Our objectives today are to describe the president of the United States. We will College system to address misconceptions and Article 2 of the Constitution requires electors for the state are to be chosen. holding federal office, either elected No members of Congress or federal judges allowed. electors following laws, requirements, and Since 1864, electors in every state have been also held on Election Day. A fact not known selects electors as voting delegates in case there is a Republican slate of electors, The practice of permitting recognized political developed years ago. Now, the president-VP On Election Day, voters select the presidential voting for the electors who will cast a ballot This means citizens indirectly elect the The number of electors each state has is In other words, if a state has two senators, three electoral votes. Most states so they'll get more votes. And remember, this Altogether, the 50 states have 100 U.S. plus Washington, D.C. currently receives three, The four states with the most electoral and New York, while Washington, D.C., and An absolute majority, more than half of the presidential election. This means that 270 [drum roll] [Voice: &quot;And the winner is ...&quot;] 270 votes? The 12th Amendment mandates that House of Representatives, something that's It's important to know that in that instance, how many representatives it has. The winner will If no one wins a majority, the House deliberates States can divide their electoral votes, but in 48 of the 50 states, state law mandates that receive all of that state's electors. This even by a narrow margin, that person An example is the biggest electoral prize, candidate receives the most votes from California electoral votes. [Voice: &quot;Thanks.&quot;] If a candidate chosen, so they are almost guaranteed to Only Maine and Nebraska separate their The electors representing the political party their respective state capitals in December, to cast their votes. To be clear, the After voting, each state sends to Congress called the certificate of vote. The session of Congress where they are tabulated the meeting is the Vice President, who Remember, electors are nominated to represent party, and have pledged to vote for their voting for another party's candidate. [Voice: the states have laws against faithless electors, Each citizen's vote counts, but the November general election only president. Its true purpose is to choose and vice president based on how the citizens of First, about 10 percent of presidential not elected the winners of the nationwide Also, except in closely fought swing states don't always devote a great amount In truth, the Electoral College party might gain for encouraging voter So, instead of spending equally on states and campaigns on swing states, meaning they often Another criticism is that due to the with smaller populations have proportionally All of this creates a &quot;winner-takes-all&quot; that does not always align with the The appropriateness and fairness of the a matter of ongoing national debate, especially that it requires candidates to have widespread Critics argue that it is not always representative Still, it is part of the Constitution and would process. And surely, you remember how difficult it is probably here to stay. Remain informed of the all levels, young citizens! Vote, debate, and