It was a technological marvel the likes of which its kind, being the only jet capable of taking a runway. That versatility made it beloved. No runway to take to the skies. They could head time to land, practically any flat surface large jet was this? The British-made Harrier Jump Jet, incorporated it into the U.S. Marine Corps. But get a successor? Why did the Harrier fade off that would allow it to stand tall over the new or VTOL, jets that it inspired? We answer those we head to the Second World War, which is when German engineers hypothesized the existence of position, but their work never moved passed the in the throes of a war that involved the entire it was losing that war. Still, those early plans possible. But possible doesn't mean simple. In the their heads together and decided that the need for jets extremely vulnerable to both conventional akin to the one that the Nazis has proposed, with the 1950s to experimenting with various VTOL Most of these experiments failed, at least in fighter jet. But that doesn't mean advancements who was already a well-regarded commodity in mind to work. He was famous for the creation of system of flaps and valves to control how air was That design would later go on to be used in the in World War II would later dub the "doodlebug." prototypes. The Leduc 010 introduced his ramjet work unless another aircraft lifted the one to glide long enough for it to pick up the speed saw action. It was never intended to, as it was test his theories. Later designs would see the with the engine finally being combined with others off and land under its own power in the 1940s. the Leduc 022. This final aircraft was intended less than 0.62 miles long and saw the introduction the Leduc 022 engaged its turbojet engine to take reach Mach 1.15 only to be damaged irreparably VTOL plane. But some of his ideas would go on to Rolls-Royce started working specifically to create "Thrust Measuring Rig," or TMR - a name chosen these rigs was tested in 1953, though it barely four legs, though it gave Rolls-Royce a chance to that weren't a far cry away from those used with both exhausts pointing downward, the first fuel for 10 minutes of flight. Not exactly hover. Flying Rolls-Royce's new prototype was a a "bedstead" at the top of the rig, from which tethered to the ground. Eventually, Rolls-Royce that proved the TMR was too dangerous. Though it was eventually retired after a crash killed to also crash and kill a pilot within a week of had a proof of concept based around a new type of Dr. Alan A. Griffiths during the 1940s, the lift pounds of thrust. Not much, but it was enough experiments proved to be something of a success, Short Brothers to create two machines using this named the RB.108. The first of these machines with a tricycle landing gear and a funny little but it packed four RB.108s mounted vertically horizontally in the tail to allow for forward validated many of the early VTOL concepts, being it had no operational capabilities. Think of it concepts that would later go on to form the so important. The U.K. had made another big step French engineer Michel Wibault was working on a to get funding from the U.S. and French air forces NATO-created Mutual Weapons Development Program, Force Colonel John Driscoll. The colonel passed technical director Sir Stanley Hooker, who took a Hooker assigned a small team, including a man in addition to hiring Wibault as a consultant at which got rid of the gyroscopic effects and the U.K. had yet another working VTOL be the game-changer that led to the development of attention of Sir Sidney Camm, who was the chief behind Britain's Hunter and Tempest aircraft. Camm the various "lift-engine" VTOL designs he'd colleague named Gerry Morel. That conversation identifying an opportunity to reinvigorate his and Lewis. "When the devil are you coming to see he would need to come to see Camm, Hawker's head for Bristol's B.53 engine. Hooker took Lewis to P.1121 Strike Fighter, and they were impressed by A variation of the P.1121, the P.1127 featured a straight wings, and a canopy that could seat down to two, but the important thing here was that was appropriate for combat. There was just particularly interested in the P.1127, or any VTOL the development of the aircraft itself. Work engineers to create the Pegasus engine. Capable was soon tweaked, pushing the thrust levels up to Hawker was working on creating the first P.1127 year, the P.1127 achieved its first hover, though would see Hawker work on refining both its engine P.1127, though it wasn't a combat-ready aircraft and now had a plane that was fully capable of VTOL came calling for an evaluation. Impressed version of the Kestrel. Initially named the flight took place on August 31, 1966, with the for the RAF to order 60 of them. A year later, born. Decades of tinkering involving some of the had finally led to the world's first VTOL fighter calling. It had experienced its own trials and VTOL aircraft. Ultimately, America had failed. governments negotiating the possibility negotiations were successful, with an aerospace which is now owned by Boeing, teaming up with production on its own Harriers. The Harrier's the United States officially bought the license this version of the Harrier would be the first U.S. Marine Corps, and several other a variant of the AV-8A named the British Aerospace naval striking capabilities to the aircraft. The McDonnell Douglas created the second-generation the Harrier proved itself time and time again the Harrier was an impressive specimen. It close air support as it was in attack missions fighter. The jet featured a Rolls-Royce-built 20,280 pounds of thrust. Depending on the variant generation of harriers - the jet would be crewed a top speed of over 730 miles per hour with it's notable that the Harrier wasn't faster we'll discuss when we get into the reasons why these could vary depending on the version of the seven wing stations. It could carry a pair of 30mm ASRAAMs, four Maverick air-to-ground missiles, though not all at the same time. The loadout or six Mk 83s. Later variants were even capable which Ukraine war trackers may recognize as one of Volodymyr Zelensky wants to be able to fire at combat operations, including deployment in Bosnia, Falklands War that the jet became legendary. By to deal with the Falklands problem, the Harrier was operational and in use by the Royal Navy. As the U.K. had converted most of their stock into and a more powerful engine than the GR1. When the 28 Sea Harriers capable of taking off from its leading the U.K. to convert several of its GR3s were later deployed in the Falklands. They had two in the open and prevent the enemy from using themselves. But it soon became clear that the suggested. Beyond taking out airfields and runs on military sites and storage facilities, to use the Falklands for military purposes. By the its 14 converted GR3s, with most of those being to the surface-to-air missiles to which Argentina being vital to the U.K.'s efforts to reclaim the 14, 1982, the U.K. built a full site at Port that had proven so vital in its defense of the air defense role for the next couple of decades. the culmination of decades of research into VTOL jets ever built. It was also effective. Its use in its later use in Iraq, Bosnia, and Afghanistan. which brings us to the big question we need a Harrier successor? There are several reasons, showing its age as we headed into the 1990s. We of achieving supersonic speeds. That wasn't the time the 1980s rolled around, the Cold War and Russia had jets fast enough to easily break for example, entered operation during the early of Mach 2.25. The Harrier could be left in the with its VTOL capabilities, it simply wasn't fast the Harrier's engine. Speaking of sacrifice, the fuel as the emerging new generations of fighters. accommodate the jet's Pegasus engines. In short, future utility. It was far from obsolete. The the 1990s demonstrates that. But it was clear a VTOL capabilities while delivering the speed Russia recognized this. It had tried and failed both before and after the Harrier took to the plane had its first flight in 1971, going on to be It wasn't as fast and couldn't match the range Soviets were quickly catching up to their Western of these technological improvements came in the stock of Yak-38s so they could become capable of with the jet using rotating nozzle technology to full production as its manufacturer, Yakovlev, around it. But the Yak-141 was yet another signal the Harrier's capabilities. Still, none of this own new Harrier. What stopped it? There are two new version of the Harrier. When the Soviet Union company survived and, thanks to Russia becoming locked into an isolationist regime, it started partners using the Yak-141 as leverage. Lockheed it was about to begin work on developing what a deal with Yakovlev, giving it $400 million in static test aircraft. It was essentially a paid money to survive and Lockheed Martin gained access The Joint Strike Fighter, or JSF, Program. The JSF the U.S. Department of Defense, or DoD, to create several the U.S. had out in the field. The British as was the F-16, the British Tornado fighter Lockheed Martin compete with one another to design winning out thanks to its X-35 design. The X-35 it had no interest in trying to compete with the cost alone would be far beyond what the country's is anticipated to cost the U.S. upward of $2 which will only spend $54 billion on its military far less during the 1990s and 2000s, that massive current annual military budget 37 times over to funding going to any other aspect of its military. States, the U.K. did the next best thing: It try to develop its own replacement for the Harrier the U.S. developed. Worse yet for the Harrier, in mind. America wanted to create a VTOL aircraft also being capable of stealth. The Pegasus engine to the task. Its distinctive whistle would prevent it wasn't capable of the speeds the U.S. needed never going to work in America's fifth-generation British designers from the running, BFBS Creative a great solution to the Pegasus engine's problems Program. For a decade, the company's engineering up with the idea of placing a lift fan inside had placed a pair of lift jets. A shaft placed on and to the lift fan. The U.K. took note of this forward as those that had allowed it to turn VTOL Seeing that Lockheed Martin's patent was not only on designing an alternative. It didn't need to. solution that would solve many of the Harrier's The result of this, along with several other Martin's fifth-generation fighter blows the It's a little larger at 50.4 feet compared to the wingspan and is close to six feet higher. But its that extra size and the weight that comes along F119-PW-100 turbofan engine, which delivers Pegasus engine, which only managed 23,500 pounds engine and its thrust numbers go through the roof, allows the F-35 to hit a top speed of 1,199 miles making it almost twice as fast as the Harrier. longer range - 1,379 miles to the Harrier's 1,367 as the legendary British jet. Is it any wonder of onboard computational innovations that make the decision to switch to building frames for the F-35 a plane that exceeds the Harrier in every major enough for the U.K. to have not built a single new new one since the introduction of the Sea Harrier it had in terms of replacing the Harrier. Despite the Harrier's legacy is more than secured. It was and it set the standard for what these types of when it failed to create a VTOL aircraft of only to end up with a plane that paled in to develop a VTOL fighter that exceeded the Soviet Union quickly led to those innovations the Harrier walked so the F-35 could run. Its to succeed at a feat of engineering that many version of the Harrier come out of the U.K. aviation world every time you see an F-35 or any the Harrier? Where does it stand among other still find a use in modern combat? And will the leaders in military innovation with the Team fighter jet in over 30 years? Share your thoughts video. Now go check out Can UNITED KINGDOM Survive