Whether you like it or not, radical transparency and algorithmic and it's going to change your life. That's because it's now easy and embed them into computers and gather all that data all over the place, and know what you're like, and then direct the computers in ways that are better Well, that might sound scary. I've been doing this for a long time My objective has been and meaningful relationships and I've learned that I couldn't have that unless I had that radical transparency I want to show you why that is, I want to show you how it works. And I warn you that some of the things probably are a little bit shocking. Since I was a kid, And I didn't like following instructions, I was no good at following instructions. But I loved to figure out When I was 12, I hated school but I fell in love I caddied at the time, earned about five dollars a bag. And I took my caddying money, And that was just because And the first company I bought was a company by the name Northeast Airlines was that was selling for less (Laughter) And I figured I could buy more shares, and if it went up, I'd make more money. So, it was a dumb strategy, right? But I tripled my money, and I tripled my money The company was about to go bankrupt, but some other company acquired it, and I tripled my money. And I was hooked. And I thought, &quot;This game is easy.&quot; With time, I learned this game is anything but easy. In order to be an effective investor, one has to bet against the consensus and be right. And it's not easy to bet One has to bet against because the consensus And in order to be an entrepreneur, a successful entrepreneur, one has to bet against I had to be an entrepreneur and what goes along with that So I made a lot of painful mistakes, and with time, my attitude about those mistakes I began to think of them as puzzles. That if I could solve the puzzles, they would give me gems. And the puzzles were: What would I do differently in the future And the gems were principles that I would then write down that would help me in the future. And because I wrote them down so clearly, I could then -- eventually discovered -- I could then embed them into algorithms. And those algorithms and the computers would and so in parallel, And I could see how those decisions and I could see that And that was because the computer it could process a lot more information and it can process decisions much more -- less emotionally. So it radically improved Eight years after I started Bridgewater, I had my greatest failure, my greatest mistake. It was late 1970s, I was 34 years old, and I had calculated that American banks had lent much more money than those countries and that we would have since the Great Depression. And with it, an economic crisis and a big bear market in stocks. It was a controversial view at the time. People thought it was But in August 1982, Mexico defaulted on its debt, and a number of other countries followed. And we had the greatest debt crisis And because I had anticipated that, I was asked to testify to Congress which was the show of the time. Just to give you a flavor of that, and you'll see me in there. (Video) Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mitchell, it's a great pleasure and a great honor in examination with what The economy is now flat -- teetering on the brink of failure. Martin Zweig: You were recently You said, &quot;I can say this because I know how markets work.&quot; Ray Dalio: I can say that if you look at the liquidity base in the corporations that there's such reduced that you can't return I look at that now, I think, (Laughter) I was so arrogant, and I was so wrong. I mean, while the debt crisis happened, the stock market and the economy and I lost so much money that I had to shut down I had to let almost everybody go. And these were like extended family, I was heartbroken. And I had lost so much money that I had to borrow to help to pay my family bills. It was one of the most painful but it turned out to be because it changed my attitude Rather than thinking, &quot;I'm right,&quot; I started to ask myself, &quot;How do I know I'm right?&quot; I gained a humility that I needed in order to balance my audacity. I wanted to find the smartest to try to understand their perspective or to have them I wanted to make an idea meritocracy. In other words, not an autocracy in which and not a democracy in which everybody's but I wanted to have an idea meritocracy And in order to do that, I realized that we would need and radical transparency. What I mean by radical truthfulness is people needed to say and to see everything. And we literally and let everybody see everything, because if we didn't do that, we couldn't really have In order to have an idea meritocracy, we have let people speak Just to give you an example, this is an email from Jim Haskel -- somebody who works for me -- and this was available &quot;Ray, you deserve a 'D-' for your performance you did not prepare at all well because there is no way Isn't that great? (Laughter) That's great. It's great because, first of all, I need feedback like that. And it's great because if I don't let Jim, to express their points of view, our relationship wouldn't be the same. And if I didn't make that public we wouldn't have an idea meritocracy. So for that last 25 years We've been operating and then collecting these principles, largely from making mistakes, and then embedding And then those algorithms provide -- we're following the algorithms in parallel with our thinking. That has been how we've run and it's how we also deal In order to give you a glimmer I'd like to take you into a meeting and introduce you to a tool of ours that helps us do this. A week after the US election, our research team held a meeting to discuss what a Trump presidency Naturally, people had and how we were The &quot;Dot Collector&quot; collects these views. It has a list of a few dozen attributes, so whenever somebody thinks something it's easy for them they simply note the attribute For example, as the meeting began, a researcher named Jen rated me a three -- in other words, badly -- (Laughter) for not showing a good balance As the meeting transpired, Jen's assessments of people Others in the room That's normal. Different people are always And who knows who's right? Let's look at just what people thought Some people thought I did well, others, poorly. With each of these views, we can explore the thinking Here's what Jen and Larry said. Note that everyone including their critical thinking, regardless of their position Jen, who's 24 years old can tell me, the CEO, This tool helps people and then separate themselves to see things from a higher level. When Jen and others shift their attentions to looking down on the whole screen, their perspective changes. They see their own opinions and naturally start asking themselves, &quot;How do I know my opinion is right?&quot; That shift in perspective is like going to seeing in multiple dimensions. And it shifts the conversation to figuring out objective criteria Behind the &quot;Dot Collector&quot; It watches what all and it correlates that And it communicates advice Then it draws the data to create a pointilist painting and how they think. And it does that guided by algorithms. Knowing what people are like helps For example, a creative thinker who is unreliable might be matched up with someone Knowing what people are like what responsibilities to give them and to weigh our decisions We call it their believability. Here's an example of a vote that we took where the majority but when we weighed the views the answer was completely different. This process allows us to make decisions not based on autocracy, but based on algorithms that take Yup, we really do this. (Laughter) We do it because it eliminates what I believe to be and that is people arrogantly, naively holding opinions and acting on them, and not putting them out there And that's a tragedy. And we do it because it elevates ourselves so that we start to see things and we see things collectively. Collective decision-making is so much if it's done well. It's been the secret sauce It's why we've made than any other hedge fund in existence and made money So what's the problem and radically transparent with each other? People say it's emotionally difficult. Critics say it's a formula Neuroscientists tell me it has to do There's a part of our brain and like to look at our weaknesses I'm told that that's And then there's a part of our brain I'm told that that's the amygdala. In other words, there's an emotional you and there's an intellectual you, and often they're at odds, and often they work against you. It's been our experience We win it as a group. It takes about 18 months typically to find that most people with this radical transparency than to be operating There's not politics, you know, all of that hidden, there's an idea meritocracy And that's been great. It's given us more effective work, and it's given us But it's not for everybody. We found something like it's just not for. And by the way, when I say radical transparency, I'm not saying transparency I mean, you don't have to tell somebody or their baby's ugly. So, I'm just talking about -- (Laughter) talking about the important things. So -- (Laughter) So when you leave this room, I'd like you to observe yourself Imagine if you knew and imagine if you knew and imagine if they knew and what were really like. It would certainly clear things up a lot and make your operations I think it will improve Now imagine that you can have algorithms that will help you gather and even help you make decisions This sort of radical transparency and it is going to affect your life. And in my opinion, it's going to be wonderful. So I hope it is as wonderful for you as it is for me. Thank you very much. (Applause)