I'm saying goodbye to my hard-earned 13,000 seconds. Uh, we are currently at 20 seconds, the coin somehow. And we're gone. There at least it's Cheese Land. We have that that's exactly what I needed. Oh man, I me some coins. Come on, get that coin. and we're already not in last place, wow. All I need another item right here. Shortcuts don't Let's go backwards, I need to go backwards I'm just gonna use it even though it's I'll just try to do something at the shock. This is really good. Oh, and I mushrooms, mushrooms. And I will because people are probably just getting a bullet. I'm just gonna use it. I'm so far and this is the best thing. I could not have I'm at 10 coins, my speed's pretty good. I okay. I don't know if I can win though, someone's I don't even want a blue shell. Someone else so well. I mean, it wasn't going perfectly, have been even better. Okay, and this it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter at this that was pretty much as good as I could have asked um, I didn't get last. Okay, this one's gonna all these sharp turns, but the items do make it a a couple of shortcuts here, so this is really good also make it easier to dodge all the cars, which, and hopefully other people will run into it Bullet! Are you kidding me? Yeah, I'm gonna get blue shell. No, I need these items. It was Okay, we're kind of coming back in this. Oh geez, this is impossible. [laughs] I should I think about it. No, no, this is fine. This is That's the only way. It's the only way right Oh wow, no, no shock dodge. Oh, I actually might I got seventh, there was only one shock. I think I two shocks or dodge one shock and have a shock. lot. So, I've discovered a way to not disconnect, just go back and forth, come over here, stop, turn it seems like I don't disconnect when I do this. coins because, uh, like, that would help me out think it's worth having constant disconnections Come on, good items, please. Shock. Yes! Bullet. decided I want to try a strategy. I don't know cost is I have to wait at the item set a lot. Okay, and I need some coins right here. I need There we go. Come on. Okay, I need to and trucks. Everything else is like, whatever. Okay, and this bullet right here. I don't but, oh, I got a single mushroom. Are you kidding have no traction. So, let's do that. And No, this person's screwing with me. How are you Like, there's no legitimate reason for me because I'm waiting 30 seconds. I'm gonna Okay, we're kind of back in this. Golden I just need to not get hit by stuff-- Oh, was No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Oh, hey, I'm not. But first place was right there. Wow! gets me shocks. Like, I could just keep trying uh, I don't know. I think if I do this, I could Wow, I actually don't get disconnected when I Let's go. Oh, there's no double item box here. I Okay, cool. I have a golden mushroom, so that not gonna let me take the double item set next. There's no shortcuts coming up either, so I just It's hard to take lines in this, like my handling. for the amount of speed that I have, but it's actually. I need this item. All right, bullet a bad use of the bullet. Wow, I'm not too far so I do have time to make this up. Yes, I got a bullet anyway, so that mistake was totally fine. and I don't get that item set, but I think Yeah, right. Wow, that is so soon. Oh, don't get the other way. That's so funny. I've never even far behind. And we have another item set coming Shock, please, please. No. All right, we're still fine. It's not ideal, but it is fine. I'm gonna Oh, don't. No. What? Why did that go that I know. All right, well, this is it. That was What are we getting? What are we that's my best result so far. Let's go! that's a little less impressive. I can hardly I am getting out of here. Wow. So, if I execute disconnected a single time. That's actually great. All right, give me coins. Give me coins. Nope, is not good. I keep getting golden mushroom today, because the other item set has the double item because I know the bullets can't take this it take me through this curvy section, which I this combo. So, there's a lot of shortcuts Oh, what? Bullet! Thank you. Okay, [laughs] and again, we're just getting a single The only thing that'll save me here. Golden get down as soon as I can to make sure I can stop bullet, and golden. No! I want a shock. It's okay. I got a lot of shortcuts Just gonna shock right here to make sure I get I need to use all these items, and then way too far behind. There's no way I win, I might even get fourth. No, Sixth place. All right, I mean, I'm okay with So I'm finding out that this What'd I get? Last. [laughs] All right, which sucks for me, and I got a golden All right, it's the next day. I took a playing normal Mario Kart. Uh, yes, that's what can do it this time. All right, 30 seconds. but holy, that is a long time. I don't Uh, okay, so luckily the bullet can grab all and it doesn't drop me off to the item this because I think we can finish a golden All right, cool. Just use one more of that and early shock, and that sucks. That was right after back. Now I can't even do the shortcut. Uh, this it's actually not too bad because, I mean, you saw mushroom. Wow, okay. And I'm just gonna take a bad What do we got? Star, bullet. Ugh, maybe It's not getting a double item that's really good. That's really good. but I can't take the shortcut, so I probably All right, please give me something good here. the next set and I can take a mini version of I grabbed the double item box that the person was No, I think it's over. I'm gonna take All right, see what we get here. All right, that's deal I could have pulled. Let's see what we got. Okay, I mean, that's not too bad for the first All right, Ribbon Road. I'm so not excited to not good. Okay, bullet. Just gonna use it right off before this item set, I think, but at least Oh no. Okay, let's not fall off these shortcuts. double item box in this shortcut. Like, I need shortcut every time, even though it's really tough if we take a bit of the shortcut and bullet, it's bullet extension. I don't know if it's a really All right, yeah, that was really good. Okay, and a golden's not good to have here, but at least okay, okay. Take the shortcut. Don't Okay, you know what, that's fine. That's fine. If No, that was worse than not dodging the and getting a double item there is huge because I and this item set only has one. Okay, huge align for, but this is actually fine. I can take already passing somebody. All right, all right, What? [laughs] Oh no, this race is over. This is All right, not fail the shortcut. Double item. need a shock dodge or something, or this is I was like two seconds away from second place. double item at some point, I don't know, I could Okay, DK on his own summit. Come on, please give me something good here. All right, want a shock, please. Okay, no shock. I So the thinking is, I'm not gonna get the item I'm not gonna save it all the way for this even gonna get the next item set. So I'm just this combo. All right, speed up. Get some coins. Make it up. No, bullet. Bullet saved me. All oh, shock dodge. Yes! All right, I got a I'm just gonna chain this into the next Good items, please. Okay, this is actually really even though it'll mean more items if I use it now. All right, nice, nice. That is way faster so this was a huge bullet. Look, look, Ah, no, no. I'm so tempted to use the star this might look really dumb. This might be really I'm not using it, I'm not using it. now I need a dodge or shock right now. Bam! this! First place is not going for the shortcut. don't fall off, don't fall off. I can bullet. I'm have such a big lead. Oh I'm not going up there, That took so long. I finally did it, I waited 30 that's perfect. I even got hit, but I dodged two more perfect than that. Oh, this is amazing. I this was over because, you know what, this kind [laughs] because I know I just need to dodge the main thing, right? Like, I even did it on a Oh, and I think I'm gonna throw up. Not throw up here so that you can see that, like, this realized in the last video I kind of spoiled which so that's why I'm doing it here. Okay, I have