If you feel like you are tired of sending out like making your own personalized handmade then this video is for you! I have stumbled upon match design and create an endless array of is...it only takes five super simple painting get started! For supplies today we need watercolor watercolor paper. I've got here just a scrap piece painting techniques on, and then we'll move over creating card designs on. I've got this number for all of the techniques today, but if you have a feel free to use what you're comfortable with! using today will be listed in the description of that more. For our first technique we're going so let's put a little cadmium red on our tray of the brush and paint five dots of color in but it's okay if there's still a tiny bit of color towel just so it's not too wet, and I'll use this petal shape. I'm painting these pretty quickly, symmetrical or even, I'm just kind of going with me. Then after the flower petals are all formed more red paint and dab that in the centers of the sort of going to bleed and blend into the petal Now let's just practice these flowers a few more quick as a side note, make sure you stick around show you several easy Christmas card designs [Music] Alright, for our second technique we'll some red Christmas berries. So first I'll take a shape for one half of the berry. Then I'll rinse and use the damp brush to pull some of that berry leaving a tiny white space or circle for you can draw the circles for these berries with a but free-handing them is fast and easy too. So the hang of it. And in my opinion, these berries five we're learning today! They always give that cards. Okay, next up for the third technique, to use some burnt umber for this, then once as then basically use it like a stamp. I'll start brush in the direction I want and simply press of the brush head. Then I'll do that over and create a pine cone shape. Then to top it off you bit of paint. Alright, let's try this again. I and the best part is that even though they are [Music] Alright, let's get a little hookers green on we're going to practice some simple pine needles choose to use either green or brown, this is for and it's kind of fun to make it curve slightly Then I'll take some of this green paint keep your lines thin after you dip it in the on a paper towel to take off some of the excess use the very tip of your brush and paint on this is to use quick movements! Choose your or bend and then just go! Don't think about it As a side note while we work on this, since another fun video today featuring my top some of these things I show will definitely be and maybe some of them you have never even seen you will like some of these ideas enough to put I will make sure to post that video at the end Alright, for our fifth and final technique we're going to use sap green for this and then add in earthy green color. Then I'll start by painting and pointed edges that curve outward. Then I'll then after it dries I'll add in a vein After you feel like you've gotten these five and matching them together to create simple but in just minutes. The great thing about this complex as you would like! You can just pick two The possibilities really are limitless, it just to really quickly try painting a few of these I haven't actually practiced any of these yet, I'm out okay! Also as a side note, as we're working on my most popular Christmas tutorials from last more. This first one can be used as a lovely card it's not too hard to do, in fact there are a lot now today! And although I do teach you in this I also have an 8x10 as well as a 4x6 and 5x7 card which I will list in the description of this video favorite Christmas wreath tutorials. There's to freehand it, but I do also have a printable well. And this last one I'm showing you also is because I teach you how to paint snow without to watch it to see what I mean. If you choose to and all of my Christmas tutorials to find out for also put links to these specific three tutorials Well, I hope some of these card ideas can't wait for you to give this a try Merry Christmas! If you enjoyed this to my channel so I can continue to