When it comes to Saturn, it's hard to summarise mission. Four robotic probes have visited hands down been the most impactful; and I mean data has provided the bedrock for over 4,000 and helped us better understand their composition. and spent 13 of those years around Saturn magnetosphere, its rings and its structure. And last moments of its life, as it plunged into and ultimately broke into thousands of pieces. Couple that with the fact that it provided images of Saturn and the solar system to I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Supercut as we explore its Grand Finale what it discovered before and during its continuing to be made to this day from the If you want to see Saturn's beauty, there the eyes of Cassini in its Grand Finale. Pioneer 11 probe in 1979. It was at this time that Titan, had an atmosphere. They knew but this time with a lander. Now, Voyager at that point, and so naturally it was missions. Thus Cassini-Huygens was born, and Getting a spacecraft to Saturn is no mean feat, the Sun - the Sun trying to pull Cassini back to speed needed to reach Saturn, Cassini used planets before returning back to Earth. Earth's gravity it the final push needed to reach Saturn. these gravity assists only occurs once was crucial. And Cassini really scrapped it was only 1,100 km above Earth's This is made even more interesting when you was by three RTGs, or radioisotope thermoelectric about 33 kgs of radioactive plutonium. It's this even until the end of its life it still produced carrying this radioactive substance was that if and had crash-landed on Earth, everybody on the Now, 33 kgs spread out over the whole Earth is a NASA estimated it would have caused about 5,000 acceptable risk though, as the chances of this RTGs because solar panel technology wasn't good so distant. With RTGs, Cassini would have a very able to carry on even now if it wasn't for the Cassini had numerous objectives, to understand the explore Saturn's moons more fully, study Saturn's atmosphere, and study Titan more part of the Cassini-Huygens comes into play. You spacecraft, designed to see what was going on part of the mission built and operated by the ESA about 1.3 meters wide, and weighed 300 kgs. When space before entering Titan's atmosphere. The only wake-up timer, due to wake up the probe only And when it woke up, what it saw was amazing. 2-and-a-half-hour descent. The main mission taking readings from the atmospheric and so on. And because the mission was the battery life wasn't expected to last thought they could be landing on an ocean or From what you see though, it actually landed The mission for Cassini itself has been remarkably picked up over the course of those last 13 the most stunning pictures found of space. I just And of course Saturn's moons are beautiful in souls have even taken 1,000,000 photos Cassini be sitting on the Cassini spacecraft. These corrected and enhanced, and put in order to show As Cassini's fuel began to run low, scientists they could out of the time they had left. Cassini telling it to perform some very close getting closer to Saturn and its rings than it Cassini repeatedly climbed high above Saturn's the narrow F ring (which is the edge of the Then, on April 22, 2017, Cassini would series of daring dives between the planet the Cassini &quot;Grand Finale,&quot; a series of loops closer to its object of study, facing greater as its data became purest - as Cassini would fly chance for annihilation would become certain. mission. "As it plunges past Saturn during the rich and valuable information that the mission's The spacecraft will make detailed maps revealing how the planet is arranged solve the irksome mystery of just how fast the our knowledge of how much material is in the their origins. Cassini's particle detectors into the atmosphere by Saturn's magnetic ultra-close images of Saturn's rings and clouds. region so close to the planet. What we learn understanding of how giant planets - and families At the end of its final orbit, as it would fall its 20-year mission by ensuring the biologically be contaminated by hardy microbes that may have It's inspiring, adventurous and romantic - and a But let's take a closer look During Cassini's Grand Finale, NASA prospects for longevity for a chance to Saturn. This was an easy trade to make - so its survival was already off the table. the go-ahead to approach the planet closer rings. But what did it see? Did this unique before? Let's take a look at some of the awesome Well, starting with the moons of Saturn, it has detail. This is a close approach of Atlas, a 40km looks remarkable about this moon is the lack of making it look absolutely bizarre. Dust from particularly around the equator of the moon, A similar thing happens with the Pan. At 30km wide and found in the Encke into the 350km wide path get swept up by Pan. Daphnis is another shepherd moon, sadly not seen located in, its effect can be seen for hundreds found in a very narrow gap in the A ring called just enough to whisk the nearby dust particles or ripple effect in the nearby rings, sometimes visible in this little trail here. Not but up and down too as can be seen by the what it would be like to sit on Daphnis and glorious Saturn and its many other moons in the Talking of the rings though, Cassini has been of my favourites from the Grand Finale is density wave. Amazingly, what you're looking creates spiral galaxies, just much more tightly is actually only two spiral arms looping line you see in the image belongs to the same at a position where the ring orbits twice for an orbital resonance. The photo gives the illusion but this isn't the case. The illusion is caused by the wavelength decreasing with the distance resonance gets even more mind-blowing. Janus, switches orbital positions every four years time this switch takes place, the rings respond, distance between any pair of crests corresponds downstream from the resonance, which means the orbital history of Janus and Epimetheus. According the very upper-left of this image corresponds the time of the Voyager flybys in 1980 and 1981, were first proven to be two distinct objects". encoding how many years it's been alive by Apart from some other beautiful and detailed have been these little propeller features dotted image shows both sides of the rings, the the bottom the unlit side. Scientists do this though the scale of the image is only about be able to be resolved. You might just be able what can be seen is that the moonlet is physically As I mentioned, this wasn't the gap in the rings. Here is another and here is another and probably the moonlets are thought to be bigger than 2km The last interesting thing Cassini is extremely small but solid objects potentially caused by the perturbations of some to be solid as they have survived crashing into and particles which sometimes then even follow them. The objects themselves are not actually Lastly, let's look at the planet itself. As at the time Cassini flew by, its remarkable the centre of the hexagon is found a permanent hurricane. Interestingly, the pole seems to be quite clearly in comparison to 2012 where the assistance of other wavelengths of light, other over the planet, as well as bands reminiscent of Also, because of the proximity of Cassini to the planet's horizon. On the left of the image atmosphere that disappears towards the right of on its final approach, it was thought it would scientists weren't too worried about that. What the atmosphere consists of. Cassini would dive and would burn up in the process, making it But, one week before it entered that images. Some of these final images are fantastic, real-time video capture. The videos that the splicing together of countless individual it would be like to fly with Cassini Not all of these images are of Saturn itself. the 8th September 2017, only one week before focuses of Cassini during its mission was the in the solar system to contain life in a 100 water plumes erupting through the moon's crust environment and has now formed the beautiful E only visible when backlit by the Sun, and is object in the solar system. Here is a great of the E ring, you can see the plumes disturbing look at Enceladus' plumes were captured in this On the 11th September, Cassini was near captured this beautiful mosaic in natural light. C, B, A and F, with Saturn's short shadow being experiencing summer during this time, which means all its glory. You can also just about notice really interesting about this image, however, is This is due to light reflecting off the rings, the Sun don't get that dark. Below the As Cassini began to approach Saturn it took images of Saturn's atmosphere near because the Sun is low in the sky here, huge that stretch for many kilometres. You may think are looking at a scene about 5,500km across. Cassini was getting closer and closer it peered one last time at Daphnis, a shepherd Daphnis causes ripples in the ring, and some front of the moon, as well as behind. This and the moon. The inner ring orbits faster than exposing more ring material to the the outer ring travels slower than Daphnis, time the ring material reaches Daphnis on either On the same day, Cassini had one last look around a moon it focused on heavily during its nitrogen atmosphere. It also peered at just about visible at the bottom of the image. at Enceladus over a 40-minute period before it The final image Cassini ever took was looking atmosphere. It was night-time here, and so Saturn On the final day, photos were not on the science lot of valuable bandwidth, and scientists wanted spacecraft was destroyed. This was a unique this. When Cassini first hit the tenuous parts of The remnants of Cassini's fuel were deployed by Earth. At this point, Cassini was 1,900km above were firing at maximum capacity to keep Cassini sampling Saturn's atmosphere, but this atmosphere later, the thrusters were overcome, and Cassini Earth. Cassini's onboard computers at this point going wrong. Gyroscopes and star trackers would likely would have gone into a safe mode to divert so later, the spacecraft would have disintegrated As data started arriving 1 and a half hours was deemed to be a great success. Cassini recorded its ionosphere, dust particles in the atmosphere, that has yet to be uncovered from the data. mission, it just keeps on giving. Science papers it collected is analysed and re-examined. in the years since its ground-breaking mission? the things Cassini has learned about Saturn has You may think you know Saturn. Its iconic and its hazy yellow surface is both It is the 2nd largest planet, the least Saturn is an enigma. There is a vast mystery uncovered by the CASSINI probe; one that consensus about. Saturn behaves in ways that from its temperature, to its magnetosphere, What is going on with Saturn? And what are our best attempts at explaining The CASSINI probe arrived at the gas giant on arrive at Saturn - 3 others had already done we have already mentioned, it spent 13 years using its various spectrometers, magnetometers us has been a huge benefit, but sometimes Take for example that hexagon storm on Saturn's could each fit the Earth comfortably inside, and longitude, remaining fixed in its location, unlike the rest of Saturn's swirling clouds, This storm is undeniably a strange one. Scientists (although there are some lab experiments hexagons on much smaller scales). But it is not getting analysed in the years since the end of its It started with a fairly innocuous question: watched Saturn in our sky for thousands a definitive answer. After all, it wasn't seeing how long it took for its rocky core to landmarks that might exist on any hard surface speeds to the core, due to the powerful wind. speeds, so they don't settle this question hope it's the same. After all, most moons Rather cleverly, scientists do have techniques by looking at its magnetic field, and it on Saturn. Planets with magnetic fields produce liquid metal in the core spins and shifts, massive currents of energy, which in turn produce thanks to this rotation, the pole of this magnetic the planet itself. If the two lined up, the all you have to do is detect the magnetic could do - and watch as the magnetic pole of the planet. Once the magnetic pole has Only, Saturn apparently does not play by the aligned with its axis of rotation, to an order of dynamo theory claiming that this should be and well. Its magnetic moment is 580 times influential on the Saturn system as a whole. occurs, as it is impossible under dynamo theory, proven. Either a planetary dynamo IS at play in in the atmosphere to warp the magnetic field lines or we are observing a completely new method So, it was back to the drawing board radiation proved to be of more help. Charged ions move between the layers within its ionosphere. Scientists noticed that Saturn magnetic fields at play, and these radio waves mirror what you might expect to see as a result of would appear every 11 hours or so. As a result, was Saturn's day-length. Their initial estimate and 23 seconds. It was hoped that CASSINI would Initially, CASSINI was able to do so. But course of the 13 years of CASSINI's study It drifted about 1 percent over the course of a This almost seemed to imply that the planet sometimes speeding up, and sometimes slowing down. not be doing that. As such, scientists and some effect must be once again muddying atmosphere was causing shifts in the fields, hiding the true rotation of the Another key consequence of the planet's magnetic But while on Earth our auroras are the results of it is thought that this does not account for at least some of them occurred regardless of meaning that Saturn's auroras Something strange must be going on inside Saturn. radiates out into space about twice as much as it just be gravitational compression of the planet, Ultimately, all of this needed some unifying Cassini's data we discovered the key to all of Saturn is a gas giant. It is almost entirely made and 25% of the latter, with some other trace as the great mass of Saturn means that the more intense the heat and pressure that you forces the gaseous hydrogen to become liquid hydrogen, or perhaps even hydrogen compressed into the depths of Saturn, and the friction this But the rest comes from the auroras. it is thought that they are the particles coming into Saturn from its these auroras may be creating enough heat Temperatures so hot create other effects. formed. It is theorised that these winds carry and these electrically charged winds are what causing its variance. Perhaps such motion why Saturn's magnetic fields are not where they conductive layer within Saturn's clouds moving at of their own. At least, so goes one explanation. these answers lack final proof. Scientists are hoping for further insights. If these are take another mission to Saturn to find But what about the length of Saturn's day? have an answer. And it turned out Rather than investigate the electrical and scientists realised that Saturn would also tug at but what was more insightful was that Saturn is not a perfectly round ball. Any in its gravitational field. Saturn's rings were As Saturn pulled at its rings with rising the rings, we would be able to detect ripples. and located them. By measuring the distance to calculate the length of Saturn's day. minutes and 38 seconds. And this time, scientists So at least this mystery was solved. And yet next mission to Saturn will launch in 2027 with on exploring Titan, Saturn's largest moon. solar system as it is the only place thought to ours (albeit with no oxygen), and rain cycles and methane rather than water). So it's understandable it means that it may be some time before Saturn's Saturn breathes. The winds that might thrum and flow across its atmosphere. and gravity coax at its rings, Saturn's rings are thought to be surprisingly but there is evidence that the rings may years. And they are slowly draining so in another 100 million years they may be gone. fortunate. If humanity hadn't arrived when we did, It might be unscientific to real choice in whether it gives us a gift or not. to the enigmatic and wondrous world that is the beauty, all the scientific data - just would the incredible Cassini-Huygens. This truly was Thanks for watching! Want to learn this time around Mercury? Watch the Mercury favorite planet on your wall go scan the QR A big thanks to my patrons and members for your at the end of every Astrum episode, check the