A portion of this video is I've been living with solar panels for and I thought it was time to take a look twists and turns with solar production and snow. I also added a Tesla Powerwall into definitely some things I wish I knew before has it performed and do I still think I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. If you haven't seen my previous videos on my in the description so you can check them out. the basics of what I have installed on production and how it's been going; what adding and what I wish I had known before getting "oh man ... I wish I knew that before I To get right into it, my wife and I had so we're not quite at 5 years yet. However, instead of waiting. We're building a highly to have solar and home batteries as I'll include links to videos about that of research on evaluating our current so this stuff is very much in the front of my mind lot of shifting solar panel incentives around I know a lot of people may be looking for I've got a big announcement I'm really excited Anyway, on my current house I have a 9.49 LG solar panels with Enphase microinverters. game, so you can't get these panels My house is surrounded by trees on the western direction, which would be having a southern facing and west, so we chose to have solar panels placed sunlight over the course of the day vs. mainly in the less than optimal orientation and mid to an ideal setup, but it doesn't mean that solar Before getting into the costs and performance optimal for me ... and that's my diet ... which I have a crazy schedule and never seem to have meal. So I take some shortcuts and eat some not meal prep so easy because I can skip the planning doing things like making these videos and spending all of the ingredients are pre-portioned and easy with a delicious meal without any waste. In fact they come straight from the farm to your door in kind of diet too. From calorie smart to carb smart from time to time, but I'm mostly in the veggie HelloFresh.com and use the code MATTFERRELL65 for and the code MATTFERRELL65. Thanks to HelloFresh As for the cost, back in 2018 when we had just the it cost $29,609 before incentives. That's the 30% Federal solar tax credit available, our 2018 tax burden. This kind of incentive isn't pretty much the same thing as the child tax credit tax burden for that year, which probably means from your paycheck. That could mean a refund, and how much you owe. You might see the full 30% confusing, but in our case we did end up seeing solar panel loan we took out. That knocked On top of that we got into the Solar in Massachusetts right before they changed check for $126.22 a month from the SREC won't go into all the details of SREC, I've got but the newer programs you'll often see don't the newer programs like SMART payout in a more I guess you could say it's trying to live up $6,563 of our SREC payments so far, which means But that leads into how production has fared. If you saw my 4 years with solar video last year. Our solar production was down by about 2021 was the worst year to date. It just barely solar installer had predicted for that year but the mystery as to why came down to in 2021. It was the third warmest so it was very cloudy and overcast, which knocked How did things look in 2022? Well, it the numbers looking only at full calendar 2020 had 7.2 MWh, 2021 had 6.5 MWh, and you can see how much better July through But those are kind of meaningless numbers we use and how much did this save us live we get a 1:1 net metering credit off our but we export 70 kWh of excess solar production This scenario is definitely not the norm across electricity costs and other areas don't credit nice setup and arrangement with the utility, you'll need to look into how net metering details on every state in the US (I'll We've been saving somewhere around but we've seen that tick up significantly in prices have risen about 14% or about $0.02 per but this past year or two has been dramatic. In per kWh, in 2021 $0.24, in 2022 $0.30, and now increase between 2020 and 2023. The end result per year than we originally estimated based on Just as an example to show you how dramatic it used (grid or solar) from 2022, it was 12.6 I know that sounds like a lot). At $0.22 With a rate of $0.37, where we are now, To put that into real savings we saw. 2021 fell of the lower production, but we still with an average of $0.30 per kWh, we saved we've saved just shy of $7,000 on our electric pocket costs, we're down to $7,164 left. Between savings that could be as high as $2,800 at the itself off in less than 2 more years. That's But what about the battery? We did add a Tesla program a couple of years ago, so the only out of Because of that I'm not going to break down what participating in a Virtual Power Plant (VPP) in my by the local utility for peak shaving during times the name implies ... a massive, distributed battery my battery could be used between 30-60 times spikes when everyone gets home from work, cranks I get paid for the utility's use of my battery. which I'll link to in the description. But last check for $736. For me this program will only last somewhere just below $4,000. That can do a pretty If we also had time-of-use rates, we could use plus time-of-use rates could equal a pretty cost of a battery like that Powerwall. You to install one Powerwall in my area. So for the Powerwall, the VPP program by but it does help. A battery is also more like of life ... so the ROI has a very different a power outage in the winter because a downed So what is it that I wish I had known? Well, from my experience. First is the importance and battery. I used Energysage to find experience. It was so good I'm sticking with when it came to the installer for my Tesla experience. The waitlist for Tesla to install my with a third party to do the installation. Tesla with ... I mean ... Tesla was recommending them, so bad would be an understatement. The quality of the that I was going to be talking about the negative After that happened I did some digging into and tactics, so I really wish I hadn't taken the all of the issues I had have been resolved The second thing I wish I had known beforehand I'm not talking about snow covering the but what happens with that snow. Solar panels slick surface that water and snow will slide you can end up with terrifying snow avalanches about tons of snow falling 10, 20, or 30 feet reason this happens is that the snow that makes relatively quickly. As soon as a fine layer of it's like greasing the skids ... and down it all your panels are installed near the edge of the that flow towards your gutters are picking up more as well as the fact the water raised up an Depending on how close the panels are to the gutter. Not the end of the world, but something but the snow issue was concerning. I got a there's more than 4 inches of snow on the roof, The last thing I want is someone coming out I don't think that's a showstopper by any stretch, to my installer about adding snow guards in As I mentioned, I'm going to which means that I'll be selling my house. the resale value of your home because it here in Massachussetts, solar panels are out in my case. But I am looking forward That brings me to the big announcement I mentioned bit nervous. I've never done anything like this help and guidance on getting solar panels for your tips, and questions to ask installers. And that's With Solar" guide! It can be overwhelming because there. I want you to feel confident about what goals. After going through this guide, you'll be what kind of equipment might make sense for your This will even help you decide if solar actually this guide today, which is still in beta, at a URL in the description for more details and initial offer I'm going to be holding a group Zoom through the guide. I'm really excited to help as and to evolve the guide over time. Once I make to it for free. Check the link in So at the end of the day am That's a big yes. It's achieved all the goals 100% of our electricity use, but that was never take some control over how our electricity was carry us through a blackout ... all in a financially So what do you think? Do you want solar for things you wish you had known beforehand? Jump to check out my follow up podcast Still TBD where to all of my patrons, who get ad free versions members Jay and Betty Crater, Steve Hall, and videos. And thanks to all of you for watching