Marcus Aurelius is one of the most famous He was a Roman Emperor from 161 to 180 AD known as 'The Five Good Emperors.' He was in one of the highest positions of access to the realisation of all his temptations he dedicated his life to fairness and justice. During his rule, Aurelius found the time to now known as the Meditations, which has become philosophy. In the meditations, Aurelius describes guides These were mostly focused on 'taking a cosmic judgement on yourself and others. As a leader of a powerful empire that experienced his own stoic philosophy to let go of stress leader he could be. Stoicism is an ancient and incredibly famous a truly inspiring way of thinking and living. The stoics strongly believed that doing the and that in order to do the right thing, sound necessary. So with that in mind, in this video, we will mind, through five important lessons that teachings of Marcus Aurelius. Train Your Perception Marcus Aurelius says "Choose not to be harmed Don't feel harmed and you haven't been". One of the greatest lessons of stoicism is We're used to judging everything we come Any event we experience, any people we meet, Something was either bad, good, boring, fun, This is, unbeknownst to us, a very exhausting lives for the worse. For example, judging every interaction you gives the day itself an even more negative If you label a party you went to as boring, of your week. We often let our initial judgments of things that they are most likely not entirely rational. Furthermore, our tendency to judge every moment to talk in metaphors and hyperboles that make If you get dumped by your partner, you might of the fundamental fact that they no longer This way of speaking - or rather: this way It is not the actual event that makes you choose to think about it. The stoics, in contrast, encourage people across and the things that you do and one judgements' which essentially means to look instinct and to judge something through a You can try to 're-frame' that boring to see a new place and meet some new people. OK, afterwards you might note that you didn't go in with the expectation of negativity. As such, practising not to judge everything the very best way to start training your perception Whenever you think about anything in an opinionated What have I based my opinion on? Is there a better or more positive way to Marcus Aurelius stressed that harms can only This means that any hard experience you went and worse you consider it to be. As such, you have complete control over how The stoics also encourage you to see every or source for 'good.' As an exercise of training your perspective 'Turning The Obstacle Upside Down.' When a new coworker is a slow learner and you might feel frustration. This coworker is an obstacle to what you are and profit. However, this situation can also be an opportunity It is an opportunity for youth to exercise teacher, to learn how to integrate new people times. All of these are skills that will also be profits in the long run, as well. On this subject, Marcus Aurelius famously action. What stands in the way becomes the way.' So, all in all, instead of judging everything the time to look at things as they objectively and clearer than you thought. Every situation has a more positive interpretation When you adjust your mindset accordingly, much as it used to, and you will get through 2. Learn To Control Your Emotions Marcus Aurelius advises us to... "Stop letting your emotions override what self-centred, irritable". Acting out of emotion is often depicted as this is not without reason: there is nothing emotions can. So if you want to think clearly at all times, is the ability to control your emotions. According to Marcus Aurelius, the emotion than good. Contrary to what many people seem to think mean suppressing them. When you feel intense anger as a result of by denying its existence to yourself or others be there, no matter how deep down you push Instead, controlling emotions such as anger emotions. So when you are next experiencing anger, ask Yelling at the one who hurt you might seem hurt or better your situation? Will it help the one who betrayed you be better? In short: think about what you are tempted If not, find ways to express your emotions Maybe you can achieve better results by calmly your feelings, and trying to see their side. You could also journal, take part in physical else that might help you let go of your anger For another example, take anxiety or fear. You cannot simply push it down, but you can Instead of letting anxiety paralyse you, you actions that make you feel it and acknowledge Let's say you're too scared to ask your Lots of people see such fear as a reason not to be stopped by their anxieties. Others might be able to go through with it is in the way and needs to be pushed down But neither has to be the case: instead, your and maybe even end up being helpful. For example, this fear makes you think about you to consider all the possible questions you might get to hear. This way you can brace for them, and form But most importantly, the fear provides a to challenge yourself and grow as a person. To prove to yourself that you can. To make the step not despite your fear, but And in that scenario, you can be aware of that I'm trying this anyway?!' When you manage to redirect strong emotions what and your emotions will never lessen your decisions. Controlling your emotions is the key to a 3. Exercise The Dichotomy Of Control In the words of Marcus Aurelius "You have Realise this, and you will find strength.". The dichotomy of control is the distinction For example, the weather, traffic issues or of your control. But how you dress, at what time you leave with? That you can control. So, whenever you face a situation that makes can I control? Whatever you can control is a reason to act. Whatever you cannot control, you should learn you. Learning to distinguish these two things and A very important part of the dichotomy of for fate. When you embrace life and all the circumstances You cannot escape fate or decide circumstances choose to love your life no matter what. If you find that you are rejected for a job there is no redemption in such a situation. You wanted the job, tried and failed - you a circumstance like this. However, this is a misunderstanding. Instead of viewing the fact you didn't fulfil what led to the negative result and use it Either the reason you didn't get the job this is something you can control. You can work on those failings and try again future. Or the reason was an external factor, like of the hiring staff. This was never in your control, meaning the no point getting upset over something that One part of accepting fate is distancing yourself of success. If you want to be a writer, for example, and your book makes, then you will let your success of the time. But if you choose to measure your success product, or by the amount of work you put So by all means, make sure to do everything But never forget that you might not achieve If we occupy ourselves only with what is in isn't the exact way it comes, then one will 4. Keep Virtues In Mind To quote Marcus Aurelius "Dig deep within ever ready to flow if you will keep digging". A virtue is 'an excellence of character,' Morally good behaviour benefits not only you The stoics believed in an interdependent universe: in some way. Thus, according to stoicism, what is best you as well. This is why the stoics were convinced that committed to the greater good - or, in other Not acting virtuous is the result of ignorance, When life throws you in an unexpected direction, keep you grounded. This is why the most virtuous people are the In order to be virtuous, one has to keep the mind: wisdom, justice, temperance and courage. Wisdom, in the eyes of stoics, is the ability neutral. Instead of being controlled by emotion, one would be the morally correct thing to do. When you have two options in a difficult situation, Then: justice. Justice is acquired through wisdom and it others as well as ourselves. The stoics regard it as one's duty to both The third virtue, courage, is the ability To do what is necessary or helpful even when Courage is not the elimination of fear, desire, Rather, it is deciding to act and taking steps Lastly, temperance. The other word for temperance is moderation, two extremes - to make sure to never take In practice, temperance often looks like self-restraint, According to Aurelius, one quality that set to stop oneself if necessary. Temperance is important for ensuring our long-term For a very trivial example, consider a bag Finishing the entire bag in one go might be health, and even potentially your mood in Thus, one should practise self-restraint and Temperance is also aided by wisdom: only by something you need to acquire before stopping The stoics divided all possible things and and indifferents. It was always important to seek out good, you please. You create evil when you act against one of from somebody, disrespect someone, act recklessly You participate in good when you act according And you do neither when you perform indifferent These simple rules to live by do not just one a more relaxed one. When you act according to the virtues, you acting rationally, according to the stoics. Such behaviour creates a calm mind. 5. Always Consider The Big Picture In our final quote from Marcus Aurelius for put it. Whenever you want to talk about people, it's all at once". Considering the big picture is a tremendously When living life, we are always right in the like the end of the world. For example, when you're in the middle of city is crowded - but taking only a few steps So, in general: when we take a step back and lives, we see how small all we experience And then we see how much of the world is there Lots of people forget that their experiences matter - even to themselves. Someone who's had a bad experience with dogs, that dogs can be helpful and amazing pets the possibility of other experiences. From time-to-time, we all need to take a step or missing?" Doing this can be helpful in a number of ways. For example, imagine having to choose between a newly opened position somewhere else. This might seem like a difficult decision, of those would satisfy you. Maybe you feel okay about your current job of the promotion, but you do appreciate the You might feel stuck. However, there is so much more you could think Have you considered moving into an entirely Or a side-hustle - A way to make money in Perhaps immersing yourself in a hobby to shift something you don't like as much? There is a big chance that there are many, aware of. Looking at the big picture instead of being you can help tremendously when making a decision. Looking at the grand scheme of things is not but also helpful when forming an opinion. You need to know about all options or all want to judge it properly. Furthermore, taking a step back also means When you let go of your own desires for a around you and your duty to them. You might think that in the heat of the moment, step back and think of the entirety of the doing it, you finally see the smallness of well-being of the world. As said before, the stoics thought that everything general well-being of the world improves your Thus, taking a step back and looking at the is tremendously important. When facing a choice, hardship, problem or some questions. This can be in the moment, or later on, perhaps while out for a walk or when journaling about fan of! The most common questions to ask yourself What could the long-term effects of my choice/action How could someone else's perspective on Do I know somebody in a similar situation Does my choice/action affect my well-being? Does it affect the well-being of those around Are there any choices I have not considered Taking the time to consider all aspects of helps you understand your actions, thoughts, yourself in the way that it allows you to When you consider the whole picture, you will you free from unnecessary restraint, bias If you enjoyed this video, please make sure playlist and for more videos to help you find wisdom, don't forget to subscribe. Thanks so much for watching.