Late in the afternoon in February 27th, 1944 two American P-38 Lightnings tear through the sky low over the Jungles of New Guinea, on a top priority mission. &quot;You ready?&quot; &quot;Born ready.&quot; They lean forward, willing their planes to go faster as they push down to full throttle. Their target lies at Wewak Airfield, where a Japanese transport plane is just setting down. Officers from the airfield rush out to meet the plane and greet the arrivals. But then, suddenly... &quot;Wait. What is it? Do you hear that?&quot; The roar of aircraft engines grows steadily louder. The Japanese have no time to react before a hail of fire rains down upon them. The transport plane is showered with bullets, the passengers still inside, its thin aluminum skin providing no shelter from the incoming fire. The bullets slam through the transport plane and its occupants. &quot;Take cover! It's gonna explode!&quot; The plane explodes in a shower of flame and shrapnel. The drone of the P-38 slowly fades. &quot;Wait! There's just the two of them?&quot; &quot;Can't be!&quot; The stunned Japanese officers on the ground lift their heads to the skies. These shiny new planes gleam silver and the sun catches their colorful, non-standard paint schemes. Both planes carry a large tally of victory marks. &quot;Another round?&quot; &quot;You know it!&quot; The P-38s turn, and another strafing pass is made. &quot;Watch out, they're coming back!&quot; The Japanese scramble for cover. The pilots from their cockpit of their P-38's are Captain Dick Bong and Major Tommy Lynch. They salute to each other, celebrating another successful mission as wingmen. The two men are best friends, aces and celebrities in the South-West Pacific theater, a unique partnership of two skilled aces and their painted planes known as &quot;The Flying Circus&quot;. Bong and Lynch touch down at Nadzab Airfield and climb out of their aircraft. &quot;Good job, buddy!&quot; &quot;The plane was on the ground. It doesn't count. We both know that.&quot; The pair are asked to report personally to General Kenny, commander of the Fifth Air Force at his headquarters. Kenny knows Bong since flight school. &quot;Tell me everything, son. Should we paint another meatball on Marge?&quot; &quot;Media would love that for the Ace Race.&quot; &quot;Yeah, I like Kearby.&quot; Bong is in fierce competition with Kenny's other flying ace, Colonel Neel Kearby. Both men are pitted against each other in the media-frenzy driven 'ace race': a race to exceed America's top ace from the First World War, Eddie Rickenbacker, with his 26 victories. &quot;Couldn't it have been just an inch or so above the runway? Maybe the wheels had touched and it bounced back into the air?&quot; &quot;All right, sir. If Bong is okay with it, I am too.&quot; "General, he was on the ground all right. He had even stopped rolling." On the 3rd of March, Bong shoots down a Ki-61 with Lynch at his side, flying his trusty P-38. The victory brings his tally to 22, one ahead of rival Neel Kearby. "Nice work, they don't stand a chance against you and Marge." Two days later it's Lynch's turn to score, bringing his tally to 17. &quot;Great kid. Don't get cocky.&quot; On the same day at 5:40 p.m., ninety minutes out of Nadzab, the two aces observe a Mitsubishi Ki-21 &quot;Sally&quot; bomber on final approach to the airfield at Tadji. Lynch swoops in making a firing pass, and Bong follows up for the kill in Marge. The Sally is down. It tumbles into the forest below, tearing down trees and exploding in a fireball. Another victory for Bong. The two pilots climb back to six thousand feet, at which time they spot five enemy fighters straight ahead of them, flying low over the sea. The Flying Circus attacks from behind, as Bong and Lynch each fire on a Ki-61. Bong lands plenty of hits on target, but he overtakes his prey while it's still flying. He turns evasively, knowing he's now directly within the Ki-61 sights and its firing line. A shot of adrenaline runs through Bong, but a split second later: &quot;Yahoo!&quot; Lynch opens fire on the Ki-61, shattering the aircraft. &quot;They're all clear, kid. Now let's blow this thing and go home!&quot; Bong lets himself relax, grinning, and turns to make another sweep over the field at Tadji, where he spots two more Ki-21s on the final approach. Lynch takes the lead and opens fire, but suddenly... &quot;Damn it! I'm out of ammo!&quot; This time, around, Bong jumps in to cover Lynch, latching onto the tail of the same aircraft and obliterating the Ki-21. Bong's score now stands at twenty-four and Lynch at nineteen. Just two days later, on March 5, Bong and Lynch are hunting in the airspace above Tadji and Wewak. &quot;Going in. I'll get the lead bandit.&quot; &quot;Roger that. I got the rest.&quot; The pair dive on the Oscars from 17,000 feet. Lynch immediately locks on and nails one of the Japanese fighters, but Bong spots more incoming enemy planes. He makes several firing passes at various Oscars, but he doesn't score any observable hits. &quot;Damn it!&quot; Then, he spots one enemy fighter heading north, away from the battle. He pushes the throttle forward and easily catches up. Bong opens fire at 400 yards and the Oscar crashes into the ground near the Wewak airfield. Bong races back to Lynch to find him surrounded by Japanese planes. Bong rushes to the aid of his wingmen and a shower of bullets fills the air. But neither side land any hits. &quot;We're losing our edge! Let's get out of here!&quot; They disengage and pull up through the cloud to escape the frustrated Japanese pilots. Whilst the Flying Circus head home, Neel Kearby is anxious to catch up with Bong and Lynch. &quot;Let's go!&quot; He's flying alongside two other pilots in P-47 thunderbolt fighters. Kearby makes contact with the enemy near Wewak at about 5:20 p.m, unaware that the Flying Circus had been in the same airspace just four hours earlier. The Americans claim one Mitsubishi G3M Nell bomber each, and Kearby grins at the prospect of yet another victory. But, in their eagerness to attack, the pilots failed to notice a dozen Japanese fighters following the three bombers into Dagua. &quot;It's a trap! We've got to get out of here!&quot; Three Ki-43 Oscars in the lead immediately open fire on the Americans. The three Thunderbolts are surrounded. They attempt to cover each other as they flee, but they're soon separated. The two other P-47s return home, hoping to reunite back at base. but when they land... &quot;There's just two of them?&quot; &quot;Yeah. Where's Kearby?&quot; &quot;Did he land? Is he all right?&quot; The wait goes on and on. Kearby never came home. He would officially remain listed as missing in action until after the war. &quot;What happened? Kearby?&quot; But although Bong and Lynch are shaken, they refuse to give up on their chance to beat Rickenbacker's record. The Flying Circus resolves to battle on. By March 8th 1944, Bong and Lynch are on the hunt again. No Japanese fighters are encountered, but Bong sees some Japanese coastal supply ships steaming towards the Hollandia. The two men nod to each other and drop to wavetop level, wingtip to wingtip they dash for one of the vessels and pepper it with bullets. The ship is immediately engulfed in flames, and supplies, destined for the Japanese army, never make it. Encouraged by their success, the duo skim across the waves expertly towards the next ship and prepare to open fire. But just as their bullets strafe the lugger, a stream of anti-aircraft fire heads towards them and Lynch's P-38 is showered in bullets. The nose of his plane is badly damaged and the plane starts to bulge smoke. They immediately turn for home, as they pull up to 2500 feet. Bong sees an ominous trail of black smoke pouring from his friend's plane. &quot;How bad is my engine burning?&quot; &quot;It's okay, you're gonna be alright.&quot; But soon he sees his friend's P-38 begin to lose altitude. &quot;Lynch, bail out! Now!&quot; Lynch exits the left side of the canopy, but as he does, the forward section of the P-38 falls away, and the aircraft goes straight into freefall. Bong can barely breathe, his stare is trained on the stretch of blue sky where the P-38 once was. The plane itself plunges far below, but Bong sees Lynch and his parachute pack fall clear of the plane and for what feels like the longest seconds of his life, he waits for the white puff of a parachute opening. But he doesn't see one. Bong starts to panic. He dives Marge straight down towards the ground. He desperately circles the crash sight, looping again and again and searches for signs of life. But he finds nothing. Now, alone, he returns to base. The Flying Circus is no more. In less than a week, General Kenney had lost Lynch and Kearby, two of his best pilots. &quot;You know, son, there's no shame in taking a break.&quot; You've lost a friend and you should take some time to work it through&quot; Taking a break or asking for help is hard, but necessary when facing trauma. Because just hoping these feelings will go away isn't going to help you, it can actually worsen how you feel in the future. And that's what BetterHelp - the sponsor of today's video - is all about. With easy access to sessions via phone calls, video chats or even messaging BetterHelp makes it easier and less intimidating to start therapy. Click the link in the description and fill out a questionnaire regarding the challenges you're facing to get quickly matched with a therapist specializing in that particular field. And if this isn't a great fit, you can always switch therapists with a click of a button at no additional cost. With a network of 30,000 therapists BetterHelp gives you access to a wider range of expertise than may be available in your city. Join over 4 million people who've used BetterHelp to start living a healthier, happier life. Click the link in the description or visit Betterhelp.com/yarnhub to support the channel and get 10% off your first month of BetterHelp so you can connect with a therapist and see if it helps you. Back at Nadzab, general Kenny is deeply concerned for Bong. &quot;Thank you, sir, but I knew Lynch, Tommy well, and I know he would have wanted me to keep flying.&quot; On April the 3rd 1944, a Ki-43 Oscar is set alight high over Hollandia, and plunges to the ground. It's Bong's 25th kill. Despite the lack of his wingman, he's still an unstoppable force, with just one victory short of Eddie Rickenbacker's 26. The rumour now is that Bong will be sent home if he reaches 27 victories to keep him as a living hero rather than risk losing him in combat. But, after Lynch's death, Bong longs to return home, writing to his girlfriend Marge: &quot;I'm so near the top. Do you think I'll make it?&quot; His question would be answered on April 12, when the 5th Air Force sends nearly 200 bombers, escorted by 60 P-38s, to destroy Japanese positions along the coast from Hollandia to Wewak. Marge had been damaged in a previous fight, so Bong is forced to borrow a P-38 called 'Down Beat' from another pilot. He is flying at the back of the squadron, a position known as 'Tail End Charlie'. Interceptor Japanese pilots would often aim for planes in this part of the formation, looking to take down stragglers as easy prey. But Bong has put himself there deliberately. He needs to turn the hunted into the hunter. They arrive over Hollandia, and at 11:30 they are intercepted by the Japanese Army Air Force. The Americans are attacked from above and below as a chaotic battle breaks out. Another P-38 scores the first victory, his bomb turns for a nearby Oscar. The Ki-43 attempts to drive through the cloud to escape, but Bong pursues him, guns blazing. By the time the enemy exits the cloud on the other side, it's already a blazing wreck. This is to be his 26th confirmed victory. Bong dives on an Oscar below, but the Japanese pilot sees him coming and dives for sea level. But Bong follows the Japanese fighter all the way to the point that the planes are skimming just above the waves. The agile Oscar desperately pulls swings from right to left to evade the fire. But Bong is relentless and lands hits on the Oscar's right wing. The Japanese plane loses stability and banks hard. This is his 27th victory. He returns home. He has exceeded all other USAAF aces to date. General Kenney immediately promotes Bong to Major - and grounds him from flying in combat. In the 5th Air Force HQ, the pilots celebrate Bong's record-breaking victories &quot;Here's to you, son. The best damn pilot in the force. You made it. &quot;Thank you, sir. And here's to those we lost along the way.&quot; Bong is then dispatched to the US. He immediately visits Marge and his family, but he is soon swept back into the constant motion of his responsibilities and returns to service, visiting training bases and embarking on a 15-state bond promotion tour. This is until Bong is posted back to the South West Pacific Area, officially to be based at Nadzab as a non-combatant instrucotr. His job, officially, is to teach new pilots to become aces. General Kenney gives him permission to fly with combat patrols, but he specifically instructs his Ace of Aces to fire only in &quot;self-defense.&quot; But Dick Bong is unable to stay away from the action for long. The US is planning a massive bombing raid on Japanese positions in Balikpapan. It's heavily defended and the American bombers will need a formidable fighter escort. Seeing that things could be shaping up for a colossal air battle on October 10th, he volunteers to fly. At 10.45 AM, Bong spots a lone aircraft far below. &quot;This is Bong. There's something odd down there. Mind if we take a look?&quot; &quot;Roger that, Bong. Good hunting.&quot; Ten minutes later, the flight approaches the singular plane and Bong accelerates, maneuvering onto the enemy's tail. The enemy aircraft is a Nakajima J1N Gecko, codenamed &quot;Irving&quot; by the Allies. The Irving pilot is shocked to see Bong on his tail. He makes a turn to the right, but Bong is like glue. He gives the enemy aircraft a short burst of fire and the Irving bursts into flames. Bong smiles and follows the squadron as it reverses course and heads on towards Balikpapan. Having already beaten the record, Bong still feels the thrill of collecting yet another victory. Near Balikpapan, the flight discovers a large number of Mitsubishi A6M Zeros, and Nakajima Ki-43 Oscars climbing to intercept American B-25s. This time, though, the squadron commander leads a diving attack. But the Japanese pilot he's targeted uses the P-38s' superior airspeed against it. Bong watches as the Oscar tricks the P-38 pilot into overshooting. But the Oscar's pilot had not planned on having Dick Bong witness his little slight of hand. &quot;Hang in there, son. This ain't gonna happen on my watch.&quot; The Japanese pilot and his aircraft plunge through the sky towards the sea below. Bong now has 30 victories to his credit. &quot;I would have been toast if you hadn't been there to cover my back, Bong. Thank God you're in the game again.&quot; &quot;Roger that. Glad to be back. Let's finish this and go home.&quot; Despite his strict orders to avoid combat, he continues to add to his record. By December 17, 1944, he's increased his air-to-air victory claims to 40. In January 1945, General Kenny finally intervenes. After serving in the Southwest Pacific theater for over 2 years, Richard Bong, America's Ace of Aces, is sent home for good.