Today, I want to show you how you can use And just like the name implies, with XLOOKUP, For example, let's say I have a chocolate That's my favorite type of cookie, and I want I have a table with all of the different cookie I can look up the price for my chocolate chip I could also go back and change the cookie And there I immediately get the price back I know, I know these cookies are ridiculously We're going to start with the most simple how XLOOKUP works, and then we'll go and look XLOOKUP is currently only available for Microsoft If you don't have that, I've also included you can use VLOOKUP and HLOOKUP. All right, let's check out the XLOOKUP function. Let's start with just a basic example that If you want to follow along, I've included down below. Over on the right-hand side, I have a chocolate this cookie set me back. Over on the left-hand side, I have a table I want to look for chocolate chip cookie in So here I want to look for the cookie name, this cell. To do that, we are going to use the, you guessed And by far the easiest way to enter a function Let's go to the top left-hand corner and click Within this prompt, let's search for the function Here I see XLOOKUP, click on this one. This opens up the function arguments and over of them are bold and some of them are not So, what's the difference? Well, the ones in bold are required and the In this basic example, we'll just focus on You only need these to do a simple lookup. All right, let's figure out the price for Right up on top, it asks me for the lookup price of a chocolate chip cookie. So, this is what we're looking up. Next, it asks me for the lookup array. Well, I'm looking for chocolate chip in this And here I'll select the cookie type column Once it finds chocolate chip, I want to get So, the return array is the price. I'll highlight this column. So here, once it finds chocolate chip, it'll Down below, we can see that the price is five. And once again, I filled out all of the required I'll click on OK. And here again, we can see that the price Look at that. You successfully looked up your first value Wasn't that easy? As an added bonus, you also now know how obscenely Company. Back within our Excel spreadsheet, here you You could type it in directly like this, or we did. I personally like the function helper because Within our formula, because I referenced the cookie name. So let's say I type in sugar cookie, and I When I press enter, the price automatically Now let's say instead of searching for sugar Special Delicious Cookie. Now that sounds really good, but as you can table. And I get this nasty #N/A error message back. To present a nicer error message, let's once I'll click on this icon, and here once again, This brings us to our first optional parameter, So, if there's a cookie type that just doesn't back to the user. Here I'll insert a quote. I'll type in no such thing, and then I'll So, when we search for Kevin's Ultimate Special such thing. XLOOKUP works great when you have a vertical a horizontal list? Here on the next worksheet titled Horizontal, presented data. Right here, again, I'll click into the price let's click back into XLOOKUP. Here once again, I'll look for chocolate chip. Here I want to look for it in this array of back. Here I'll click on OK, and here too, we see Along with horizontal lists of data, you can You've probably already memorized the price you can also use XLOOKUP across sheets. Here once again, I'll open up the function to look up chocolate chip. For the lookup array, well, there's no table Here I'll click into the price table worksheet, column. For the lookup array, here I'll click back I'll select all of the prices, and then I'll So here too, I can get the price back, even in happens to be on a separate sheet. One of the nice things about XLOOKUP is not have XLOOKUP return multiple values. Here on the return array sheet, not only do price back, but I also want to get the cost Let's click on the function helper. I'll click into XLOOKUP, and once again, we're In the lookup array, just like we've been types. For the return array now, not only do I want get the cost back. So how do we do that? Well, here I'll simply select both of these And look at that, here it gives me the price into this next cell, and it also gives me When you get multiple values returned, you What does that mean? Well, let's check it out. Before we jump to the next worksheet, here we entered, and I'll copy it right to the Next, let's jump to the combined functions In combined functions, up here in the top profit do we earn for every chocolate chip To calculate the profit, I'll take the revenue, cost per cookie, which is two. So, the profit should work out to three. I could use the SUM function. I'll sum the revenue and the cost, and that'll Right up here, let's click on the function Here I'll type in SUM, click on go, and let's Here within the SUM function arguments, it Well, remember we copied the XLOOKUP function Here I can simply paste that in here, and of negative two, and I can click on OK, and The neat thing here is you can nest your XLOOKUP I'm summing up all the different values returned With XLOOKUP, you can also look up based on Let's take a look. On the next worksheet titled multiple lookups, chip cookie cost? And yes, that's right, we now have a classic chocolate chip cookie. What's the difference? Well, I couldn't tell you, but for whatever chocolate chip cookie. It might be like new Coke. To search for multiple criteria, let's once Let's open up the function helper. Let's click into XLOOKUP, and here for the chip. Then I'm going to insert the ampersand symbol, So here we're looking up two different values. In the lookup array, we do the exact same Here I'll select this column. I'll insert the ampersand and then I'll select And then for the return array, I'll select And here we can see that the classic chocolate On the next worksheet titled match mode, we're Up to now, we've been just doing an exact So we've been looking for a chocolate chip And if we don't find chocolate chip, well, a customer come in the store and the customer What do you recommend? Well, I should recommend the chocolate chip tasting cookie, but we want to maximize our So in this case, I'll recommend the oatmeal To recommend the oatmeal raisin cookie, I So here there is another exact match, but I could return the next smaller item. So here I could look for $5.50. It doesn't find $5.50, so then it falls back You could also run an exact match and if it item, in which case it would be the white And you could also do a wildcard search. So, let's make this real and test it out. Here I'll click into cell E2. I'll click on the function helper. Once again, click into XLOOKUP. Here for the lookup value, I want to look cookie. And here I'll look up in the price column. For the return array, here I'll select the And right here, there's the option for match And I want to recommend the next smaller item. So here I'll enter a minus one. Here I can see that it'll recommend oatmeal I'll click on OK. And here we have our recommendation to the In addition to match mode, you also have another And search mode is basically what order do And by default, you search from top to bottom. So let's say I want to know when was Lola, By default, it'll simply go from the top of But here, if I go from the top of the list, her last order. Here I'll click into the function helper. I've already filled out the standard XLOOKUP But here, if I scroll down, I see an option And here I could perform a reverse search Here I'll enter minus one. I also have the option to use a binary search, or descending order. I'll enter the negative one, click on OK, on 7/13. So, yet another option that you can customize. We're making fantastic progress on XLOOKUP. And last, I want to leave you with perhaps You can use XLOOKUP to find values in a grid To do this, we're going to nest an XLOOKUP I know it sounds complex, but we'll walk through This now brings us to the very last worksheet And this is the final boss of XLOOKUP. You've made it this far, so let's get through We're going to use XLOOKUP to tell us how chip cookies in 2021. And here you can see that it's a grid. We have the cookie type, and we also have number from this grid of data. It looks really hard, but we're going to break XLOOKUPs to pull this off. First, let's return the revenue for the year I'll click into cell F7, click on the function XLOOKUP. For the lookup value, I'll select the year. For the lookup array, here I'll select all And for the return array, here I'll select I'll click on OK. And here we see all of the revenue for 2021. Next, I want to find the revenue for chocolate I want to look at this list here and when this result. So I want to search against the output of Let's copy this and we're going to insert Let's click into cell C4. Let's go back up to the function helper, and This time for the lookup value, I want to For the lookup array, I'll select all of the And for the return array, I could select this And here I see the revenue comes back as just But instead of pointing at this specific set, directly into here. Here I'll paste in the XLOOKUP function that So now I have an XLOOKUP nested within an I'll press enter and the result doesn't change It's still exactly the same, except this time remove this XLOOKUP. Now that we have the formula in place, here cookie type, and here we see it automatically So here I can see it updates. So here now we are successfully searching All right, well, you learned two very important You now know how to use XLOOKUP. You also learned how to look up cookie prices. So, the next time you place an order at the how much it costs. To watch more tutorial videos like this one, Please consider subscribing, and I'll see