In this video I'm gonna show you how to research topic for your thesis or time. Plus I'm going to tell you how on your research topic idea from the another episode of Grad Coach TV. My name is Derek and today we're going to be looking at how to find, how to research topic for your talking about a seven step process that not thousands of students here at Grad Coach. If you follow this process step-by-step I have no doubt that you're topic to work with and that that choice for your dissertation or thesis. our dissertation eBook which you can include the link below this video. the other dissertation and thesis to write a research proposal, how to much everything that you'll need to get process. So we've got a playlist on that I'll include the link below this video right into it. Right so the very first a solid research topic is that you basic research process. What I mean you need to understand things like literature review, field work, methods focus groups, methodologies such as method methodologies. Now this might the horse somewhat but it is really down a path of inquiry looking at that you understand the big picture of how research works and the essential components don't understand these things if you the research process what you're gonna pursuing ideas that simply aren't viable, extensively researched, pursuing ideas way, but it's just not practical it's requirements of your school. So it is the core concepts, the basic concepts of don't need to have an in-depth basic understanding. So when we talk research design and methodologies and so talking about this. So step one is get understanding of how research works. Your university should provide you with a textbook or other resources to guide you loads of information online. A little information. You can also check out the dedicated to to academic research which video. So step one make sure that you process and then we can move on to step understanding of core research research process, the next essential step understand what it is that your specific research project. Now this might you the number of times I've seen hours days weeks months entertaining that for some reason that's not allowed important to start with the core essentials are from your university and be in terms of topics that are not allowed. At a minimum you want to make sure that you originality requirements, in other words Now this will vary a lot depending on you're enrolled in but you need to get uniqueness requirements they have for second thing you need to look at is areas are you allowed to research. Do do you pretty much have freedom in in it's within the domain of your degree. the data requirements - specifically have primary research that you have both. Another really important thing that research methodology requirements. In other words do they have specific requirements about whether you need to do a quantitative qualitative study perhaps they have a mixed methods. So it's really important The last really important thing requirements. All universities will and some sort of ethical standards and adhere to and so you need to understand terms of limitations on your field work. interview certain people or that you can questions and/or that you need clearance of research. So it's really important to requirements and what do they mean in see it's really important to understand what what are the restrictions that they huge amount of time ultimately to land the rules of the game before you play three. So now that you understand the you have license to start looking at that we take to research topics is to start really broad and then narrow that down narrow that down until you get topics that we can then evaluate. point for now is to identify broad research areas that interest you. So what you're looking for here is areas of your studies, the you. For example in an MBA context it marketing, it might be something like innovation or innovative cultures. interested you as you've worked through broad interest areas and they don't need can see in the example that I just gave, we're not asking any specific question what are the areas of research/theory studies and you've said wow that I interesting, I'd like to know more about interest areas need to be areas that are have a curiosity about, but not that you some sort of attachment or some ultimately if you take something that you go and delve into researching that, you. You're gonna bring subjectivity to welcome in in an academic context. What area of research with an open mind and with whatever answers you get. So it's that interests you, choose something through this long process, but don't choose a research area that is emotionally charged. While you're thinking about your broad you might want to be thinking about at support. In other words, for whichever research topic areas that you're identifying, are there full-time have a research interest in that area potentially be your supervisor. Generally choose a research area that your that person will be able to guide you they'll be able to assess the quality of ideally want to be looking at how can you areas of interest and held by the other thing that you want to think about just an ask to have and something to career post graduation. The opportunity to build some specialism in go in your career. For example if you a marketing degree but you are wanting or online marketing oriented, then your go and to zoom into that little perspective when you start going for unique to the table by way of this those are just two things to consider of interest. Don't don't stress too much start really broad and then we'll at this stage pen down a few of your step four. Right now that you have a good time to start narrowing that down, time niche area or more niche set of areas. The best way to do that the most efficient way to do that is to have a students at your university and ideally MBA program or MSc program. dissertation library or dissertation your research areas your broad areas keywords to search for dissertations in all the dissertations that you can find for review. The way that you're going obviously you're not going to go and to end, what you're gonna do is you're sections to to get the information you the title because the title should be Have a look at the executive summary or full idea of what the research is all introduction chapter because that gives go from a broad research topic or a broad research area and to justify that down at these dissertations or theses you The first question you want to ask these dissertations cover and and how research questions.You might want to look for each dissertation what was the research topic and what were the research questions. Then importantly how broad or how narrow were these research topics. What does this tell you about the the requirement from the school in terms of how narrow importantly how original were the research topics. Were they're really groundbreaking or was it just a sort of localized twist on Then importantly how well justified the topics really important for society field or, were they're just nice to know what your university expects in terms of tell you how many dissertations you need review, but I would say that you need to keep going until you have narrowed your your handful of more niche research areas. In other words until you've gone and taken those four or five broad research areas and specific. Or perhaps you decided to scrap stuff that was more interesting. But you process with five potential research areas that are more tightly focused. For example if your broad interest area in the beginning was then you might have narrowed that down marketing. If your broad interest management you might have narrowed that down to consumer trust or consumer trust building. In other words the important down from this broad interest area to has a body of theory that you can go and step. Right now that you've narrowed your more niche research area, the next step is to hit the literature in other words hit the existing research the journal articles feel for the state of knowledge in the more niche interest areas. The understand where the current research is at, what what does the the the existing body of knowledge have to say about these you're looking for is to find the gaps puzzle the pieces of the puzzle that will be ideal research topics. So right now what you're looking for is to get into the literature and understand what does the interest. So how do you do this? The your modules head back to your point for finding relevant journal have a look at whichever parts of your interest areas that you have and see Go and pick those out. In addition to and you can use your keywords or your as keywords in Google Scholar. I'd articles for whichever area you're interested in and you should also have a sort of recent combined literature on Google Scholar, because these picture view of the state of knowledge. So now you've got a whole lot of quality articles for each of the narrowed down to in the previous step you're just gonna skim read through them. executive summary or in a journal at the introduction and you can have a give you a good idea of what each issues that they're raising through get your hands on literature review type of the literature, then do you spend the that because that is going to give you a of knowledge, at least at the time of you want to have a look at at the end of you find one article that is really is covering an area of the theory ideally what you want to look at is look a few more articles that that article is This is a process of snowballing Ultimately what you want to land up research interest area that you have each niche interest area that you have, because this number (it's hard to put a firm number to relevant and recent articles, you'll have say about each research area. So spend the time in the literature review and then once you've done that once you things are at, then you can move on to familiar with the literature for your what the current state of the research in you can finally get to the important topics. In other words we're now finally actual research topic. But how do you do that? Well there's three techniques that I'm going to show you that are really So the first technique for finding suitable utilize what we call the FRIN - that's an acronym for further research is needed. What I mean by this not all journal articles, towards the end about the need for further research on at current articles in other words that FRIN section if you if you assess of further research you're going to have research topic ideas . The upside to this approach is that provided the articles you're looking at are recent, the upside is is that this is going to be a really really original research recent article by a reputable researcher research over here, then you can be pretty sure that that is is genuinely an original and authentic downside is that these might not really find that the areas that they proposed alley or you might just have more some sort of methodology or they require have access to so there's pros and cons but if originality is really important, point. If you have a good bundle of have many many FRIN opportunities just make sure you look at those. Right the find good research topics is to assess whether the existing research is relevant and suitable within a specific context. So a body of theory that has already been moderately researched and you can assess context, such as a certain country or certain demographic group, socio-demographic conditions. You can assess whether or not the existing theory is is question mark about whether it is is potentially worth considering. For consumer trust (consumer trust is but you might say well consumer trust largely in an American or a first-world products or for certain types of that there is a need for for research or developing country context and for a industry. In other words you'll be a different contextual lens onto existing research. So this can be very area where there is a good deal of been done close to home close to to a important point to make with this is reason as to why the existing research relevant in a certain context. You done extensively but it hasn't been done the same as the countries that it has argument that this is essential research why the existing research might not be this cultural differences. It might be very different and that impacts decision It might be that there's just different a different societal structure. Whatever sort of argument as to why this unique research as valid. So that's a useful approach that you can use is far less basically just brainstorming and mind have a bit of uncensored free thinking What you will often find is that once you've literature, once you've immersed yourself in in the state or the current state of the of free thinking and so if the other two for you, what you can do is you can just can mindmap a bunch of potential topic to go in and what you do there is you ideas from that session. Don't restrict come up with a list of ideas and then to the research/literature and see whether that research topic has been covered. So that's just a a third technique that really isn't very direction on but I'm giving you license about this you don't need a specific The only caveat is whatever ideas you to the literature and see whether or not what you think is unique thinking on somewhere else already. So you've got to Using one of these techniques or ideally should be able to come up with a much topics - in other words we've gone from of interest to a specific research topic and The next step is to take that list specific research questions. The questions is to again get really really so what are we actually asking so what example. So let's say through the you've come to one of your research topics being consumer trust in Robo advisors in the UK, for example. So if consumer trust then you want to refine this even questions, and these might be (1) what in Robo advisors and (2) how do these demographic groups. so notice how we've narrow already (consumer trust in in Robo go even more specific we say well what and to how does that vary between really really specific about this is the research questions so you want to go topics you've identified list out the three research questions that you're it is that you are going to be got a good list of potential research topics and and their associated research questions, you are ready to move the research topic ideas. So you finally got a good (hopefully a good) list of potential research topics and the associated research questions and now it's time to sit down and to evaluate these in a systematic suitable topic. The key is to do this run with whichever one you are most important considerations that we haven't the best potential topic. So let's have a got you're gonna evaluate them against that you create a little Excel each of these metrics or for each for following points. So the first one is topic sufficiently original at least requirements. Are you going to meet their important right in the beginning the the university's criteria and also the should give you an idea of originality to look at is importance. In other words it just a nice to know is it gonna make involved in? Is it significant or is it Again the requirement from the it's really important to understand what importance of any given research topic. The next criteria to assess against is the availability of literature - in other your investigation on but not too much looking for here is a sweet spot. You radically new that there isn't really review on, which will be a requirement in something that isn't too new but also overdone you're gonna need a really good specific context makes it more The next thing to evaluate on is data access to the data that you need to to be able to get the information that and then you run down a path and end up your dissertation with with a data is resource access. Do you have a need have a need for additional resources as access to that think about what other really pull off the specific piece of data collection capabilities? What I interviews, do you have the necessary certain interview people is that similarly if you're going to collect way to do this to you I have the means the data that you need link directly to you have the skills necessary to analyze quantitative data and if not, will you the the desire to go and learn how to analysis? Do you have the desire to learn Think about these these capability that there are in place. Then how excited are you by any given research topic - and will well addressing it add some value to your life to have solid add this as as part of a career move will it previously wanted, or an area of just the personal attraction that's you've scored all of your research topic them up and very quickly you'll be able So you want to refine it down to top three - you check on that see if your top three are quite like and take your top three and call an elevator pitch. In other words a each research topic is about with the idea of selling someone on it. In other words think about selling a potential you want to develop for each of these elevator pitch. An elevator pitch is a few important points which I'll the study be about? That just needs to be is this original? Again just one sentence. The third is why is this important? Again just one sentence. And the fourth is how other words what's your research design quantitative, rough idea of how you'll be Once you've done that you're gonna have and that paragraph is really the why, and the how of each topic. Now paragraphs that you create? Two things I that little paragraph and shoot it off Perhaps some friends and family perhaps fellow students and it gets some like the most, why do they like that, why potentially see any problems in terms of gonna give you just a good layman's going to give you some specialists in the space. The second for having watched this far into the pitch and you can slap that straight we'll get one of our PhD qualified give you feedback on that idea. That's we'll give you that absolutely free. Just Importantly please it must be an things we've discussed - please don't put So do those two things and you that you can use to to to inform your feedback give some thought to what it decision. If you you've got your top through all those criteria that we've honest with yourself and if you've done are pretty good research topic ideas. So pick the one that appeals to you most and stick with it. You don't need to doubt it, you don't followed all the steps then you research topics - so pick it and then get you have it a seven step process - the hundreds of students at Grad Coach solid research topic for your seven steps: Step one is get a basic what the research process is about used in research. Step two is to University's requirements. What do they of importance in terms of of that, step three is to identify your starting at the top starting with a interest and the important thing to that you must have an intellectual emotionally charged for you. Once you've identified you've got to move on to then use those to understand how other niche areas. So you're gonna go and niche. Once you've got your niche areas the literature have a look at the yourself with the current state of the understand what the key arguments are disagreed on and then once you've done specific clear narrowed research topics three techniques that we discussed. identified you're gonna go and criteria that we discussed earlier and Get your feedback from your friends, get your feedback by by dropping your elevator pitch into the comments here and then gonna go with. If you follow these seven do them right there's no doubt in my rock-solid research topic and then you or thesis proposal. By the way we have dissertation proposal in another video There you have it - how to find a good ultimately how to choose a research topics in seven pretty straightforward steps. As I've said feel free to leave any comments below the video, any questions below the video and most process and you have developed your them in the comments and we'll give you a free consultation with any one of our is very easy to do on the Grad Coach below this video. If you enjoyed the us some love and if you would like you Grad Coach TV. We do have loads of Same for the Grad Coach blog - I'll today this is Grad Coach signing out.