Online holiday orders are streaming in, but supply chain chaos is causing There are 77 container vessels waiting in California, San Pedro Bay. That's with no docking appointment. The ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach announcing they'll fine shipping November. The trucker shortage in the U.S. is at an all time high: 80,000, according But Amazon has made some unusual, big moves to avoid the worst of it. Los Angeles, 79 vessels sitting out there up to 45 days. Amazon's latest the harbor. For years, Amazon has chartered its own cargo ships, a tactic that Amazon is also making its own containers, doubling down on workers and high priority goods from China to the U.S. They've been anticipating this. So they've been taking steps since 2020 to not be as impacted as other retailers. But they're not immune to this. Amazon has seen a 14% rise in out-of-stock items since the start of the The consumer has been feeling price increases in everything that they're transportation, it gets passed down to the consumer. We talked to former Amazonians, maritime lawyers and supply chain experts delays plaguing other retailers this holiday season. Across every node of the complex, winding shipping journey, Amazon has been The more Amazon controls each node, the less it has to pay outsiders like its goods are to delays impacting the rest of the industry. Amazon always understood: they didn't want to be the largest retailer, they Amazon spent more than $61 billion on shipping in 2020, up from just under from less than 47% in 2019. And the more Amazon ships, the more data it They're watching what's going on on an hourly basis, globally. So when versus another, then Amazon has the ability to say, you know what, shipping a cargo aircraft. Let's break down the complexities of the supply chain by looking at the order, Amazon uses data to predict what will sell and where, and orders bulk orders into shipping containers and orchestrates the best journey go. This step is referred to as first-mile. Most often the shipping cost effective option, sharing space with goods from up to thousands of of LA or Long Beach on a journey taking between 25 and 40 days right now, days, and right now, up to months, waiting for available dock space and trailers or chassis, which are also in short supply, then move the one of Amazon's 50,000+ semi-truck trailers or contractors and brought that stored here until you place an order and one of Amazon's 260,000 global last-mile delivery. The first real bottleneck happening in this process is where to put the containers were in such oversupply that excess boxes were repurposed as price to ship one has gone through the roof. Prior to the pandemic, it would cost about $1,200 to ship a container from One of the reasons that there's a shortage of containers is just the you're moving those containers from the port inland, and one of the So Amazon is making its own 53-foot containers in China, using a company hundreds of Amazon's own containers arrived at the Port of Houston on the Amazon has produced probably somewhere in 5,000 to 10,000 of these these containers in to U.S. soil, once they unload them, guess what? They to return them to Asia like everyone else does. By them creating their own containers, they are essentially guaranteeing Lauren Beagen was working at the Federal Maritime Commission when Amazon exploring its own ocean freight business to give it more control over the What if we had Tickle Me Elmo this year? Guaranteed you wouldn't be able to congestion that's happening out there right now. But that would be an be able to provide that good faster. Amazon wouldn't disclose details of its ocean freight program, but says partnerships and doubled container processing capacity. Amazon and other retailers are getting creative with ocean freight, from busiest U.S. ports is at record levels. This is really taking a lot of capacity off the market because you have One solution is to simply call at a less busy port. But to control the Amazon has been doing, for years. You can pull into much smaller ports, the Port of Everett, Washington, for congestion and the fastest offload times. Amazon's been experimenting with chartering vessels since 2017, quietly move goods across the ocean for its Chinese sellers who pay to be part of &quot;Dragon Boat.&quot; They're doing over 10,000 Containers per month of the small- and right, you heard me correct, they're considered an ocean vendor - would This season, a handful of other major retailers - Walmart, Costco, Home bypass the busiest ports and get their goods unloaded sooner. And sometimes The real purpose of these vessels when they were built was not containers. of the ingenuity and creativity and lack of space, Amazon and many other multipurpose vessels to containers. John Esborn has been in the supply chain business for 40 years, You've got those fringe vessels that used to be $10,000 a day. They're now captive audience now, right? And so now you've got to lease that thing I've To understand why extravagantly expensive deals to charter smaller, older ships and why some ports are backed up while others aren't. A traditional although most containers used today are 40 foot, equivalent to two TEUs. container ships bringing goods to the U.S. from Asia can carry up to 20,000 can't fit through the Panama Canal. Although freight rates are at a record And only certain ports can handle vessels that size. That's why 40% of Beach, causing a backlog. Smaller cargo ships that can fit through the of moving cargo on the larger shared vessels. But the flexibility to dock deliveries. When leasing a ship that can only carry about 1,000 containers, you're you have as a retailer? You don't want to be the person that doesn't have goods on the shelf, you made that decision or didn't have those goods. So we're moving our margins. For those high margin goods, there's another way Amazon is bypassing ports fleet, saying it'll reach 85 leased and owned aircraft this season. They some additional flights out of Canada and Europe. Now amid the current long-haul planes that can hold 25% more volume and have traditionally been One of the converted Boeing 777s can carry 220,000 pounds of cargo, containers. Most of the small 1,000-container freighters being chartered by carrying more than 3,600 times what the planes can hold. Wouldn't it be easier just to move all that product, say from Asia to the cases to lease and fly a cargo plane. It's a very, very expensive endeavor. They were flying hot tubs, which is crazy. I mean, can you imagine hot tubs the goods enough, people were willing to pay the extra surcharges for that Another strain on the supply chain that's gotten costlier is manpower. We've been hearing a lot about the great resignation, with a lot of jobs creative in attracting labor. That might be signing bonuses, higher pay. To fight the worker shortage, and a reputation for relentless workload and to all the 150,000 seasonal workers it's hiring this year. Last year, it That 50,000 increase in employees this year over last year is probably the last second, man, they want to unload those goods and get them on the The seasonal workers are unloading and loading, picking and packing at more clear indication that it planned far ahead for the final bottleneck in the Their goal is this: be within 10 to 15 minutes of 100%, or at a minimum deliveries to basically all the customers and deliver just about anything. While Amazon may be well positioned to avoid the worst of it, the global Okay, here we go. In November, President Biden signed into law a $1.2 trillion infrastructure billion toward freight and passenger rail over the next five years. In Angeles and Long Beach 24/7. In total, that will almost double the number of hours that the port is open It's wonderful to have 24/7 as one of the solutions, but what does that are going to be overflowed with all these goods that are coming in. 24/7 port operations and chartering private vessels also worsens another congestion. When you have more smaller ships carrying only 1,000 cargo containers, frankly have less efficient engines than these massive cargo ships. One solution may lie in greater collaboration. At any given time, there are tractor trailers moving back and forth on truck and trailer going to the exact same location. If you combined supply the road. Two of the country's biggest importers of goods by container ship have chain. Home Depot is outsourcing its same- and next-day deliveries to third parties is already part of its strategy to keep scaling its massive One of the next phases that Amazon could potentially get into is actually What Amazon's going to do is say, look at the capacity we have. We have capacity to our competitors, to other companies. That then pays for the doing this.