The harness pants are finally back in stock. climbing, but for anything. We also have a new color Old Rose. I think it looks really fresh. in 2019 and I'm extremely proud of how to give you guys a very unique offer. Click Larry Wheels is one of the biggest names in in three different weight classes and is pound and on top of that he has crushing grip strength. an amazing climber. So I'm here with Larry Wheels, one of the strongest men in the world. You look forward to climb? Oh yeah. Have well I just had Eddie Hall climbing for the I did tune into that video and I was impressed. 400 pounds he did good. Yeah I'm shocked. You think I like the confidence. 100%. But you never climbed before right? Not as an adult. And Eddie had his own shoes, do you have your does that mean he's climbed like regularly? you pull cars and stuff? Oh yeah. Okay. But you do strongman stuff, you do arm wrestling. You're like a multi-talent. Jack of all trades, yeah exactly. How's your grip strength? It's pretty good. it's pretty good. From powerlifting, I mix grip deadlift. I've done lots of up my grip strength as well. I've even pain in your elbows? Oh I have pain. You do have Toes should be touching, but it shouldn't be You could have socks in rental shoes. Okay. Yeah So let's start on this green V0. Okay so this is the baby wall? You can call it the baby wall yeah. So the main thing is that you should keep your feet like this, not like that. Okay. Because when you have your toe on you body close to the wall. Two hands here and and end with So I don't touch any.. No but when you have two hands on want so you don't have to jump, because I guess Oh yeah if I jump down something's gonna Yeah and also don't put your feet too high, just looks very easy. Yeah. Well that looked like a baby You're definitely going to get a V3, oh I'm feeling good about that already. So what is the the records you have? So it's in powerlifting and it's in the and sleeves, no wraps or suit. And that is is it in your weight class or any weight class? So it's in three different ones. In the 110 kilogram weight class, 140 kilogram and 125 kilograms. What's your body weight Wow, okay that's not that much. You look a lot bigger. It's the bicep and the chest bro. All right here. What happened to your biceps So that's one of the reasons why I'm not pursuing the likelihood of me getting more permanent do you want to do another V0, or just we go straight to V1? So a V1 is not the Eddie level right? No, I think he was around V2, gym wasn't graded. Okay yeah so let's let's go So this pink one here that's a V1. That looks tricky. And it's important to trust the feet, you know put a lot of weight the feet too high because you're just going to of underclings on this and that's all biceps. And then you match to two hands on the If there is ever a roll with like an old Spider-Man You start two hands there and then right and then left size shoe. You are? You know what it is, it's my toenail. All right you anticipated it already. I was prepared. Slightly better, yeah for sure. All right V1 here we go! V1. My left hand here? Yeah. Right hand up there, Here? Yeah and then you go under cling, yeah You can get your foot all the way up there same kind of hold. It's good, yeah perfect And then on the left side of that it's good two hands on that and then.. easy nice! Okay so That was good though. I mean so far so All right is that V1 okay. That's a V1 yeah. So pretty high with your feet, because this is it's good. Okay. And also look for the chalk. You see where people have used it before. That's smart yeah. And you see these have no say it was easy. It was mildly challenging, like a five out of ten It's all about finding a good V2 for you as your strengths at you know. I think small holds don't favour you. You want something big that you can put a lot of meat on. How is this one from the ground is like a big part of it. You so when you get on the wall you can just execute, wall. And I can use the gray to down climb? This one is big. Yeah it's tall. Yeah it's very tall. What are you thinking? Is it not such a good idea? The feet are kind of bad. This one is not so good, so maybe.. Yeah maybe we find another one, because these are not very good. Challenging? Yeah so they're slopy. You know in climbing there's in-cut holds that means they go down like this and then These are a little bit slopy, so they don't is challenging. This is the very first one all. Yeah like that yeah nice match that so you if you just plan ahead you would put it here Come, that looks better! The feet are slipping. Yeah it's the rental shoes. Come on Larry come on, next one. Yeah that was very good! See how those holds are pretty. Yeah. If you only got the next part there I think you'd be good. I think I would have been okay yeah. It's like thrusting the hands as well because it's not as much of a comfortable grip. Right. Maybe I could try something while you rest? Because I haven't been to this gym.. well I've been here once before, but that was like a year ago. So how are your forearms feeling though, do you feel pumped? Not, I think if anything like the stamina, it's probably depleting but yeah like my fingers feel a bit So how challenging is the blue one? That's Oh wow. What do you do here though? Oh my god wow. That's Madness, oh my God. Oh just jumps down from the top. Now that I was able impressive you are. I didn't know how hard it a V2 and you just did V7 like I can't imagine ever would be able to. Within time maybe. But that jump, you big jump yeah. And I mean there's no way It's really impressive. Well it's like when Right right. It's like your warm-up lift, I you know we're specialized in different things. That's what I find so beautiful about what we do though. And then more time at this V2. Are you sure you want Yeah we could try something else. You Like you can try it afterwards but that would what Eddie did. Not that it's a competition. You could try the purple one first. There you go. Cross. Nice. Damn it. So the the leg is acting as like a counterweight other leg, can I just put it on the wall? You could always put it here. So you want like just pulling. But if you always with that you can just roll the shoulder. You Okay kind of get that. Start from here right? yeah then just roll there you go come on now it goes I'll figure it out again don't you uh you've tried a lot in a short amount of fast okay I'll give one more time then I'll the wall it's important not to use too much time because every second you're on the wall you're exactly what I'm doing yeah from the ground and come on there you go yeah that's very good oh that's good now guys come on come on there get your left foot up left foot up yeah oh come further out left here yeah then cross over come nice oh that was so close good job just take yeah that was good but moving quickly helps a lot here are pretty hard like this is uh some gyms but this is definitely a hard V2 this is like a so much strength it's just about like not using till I get to the top yeah yeah not wasting it now was so much better you saw that you were just foreign do you feel like you get a good workout yeah yeah which is why I think it'd be fantastic time I've tried armresting my arms have hurt probably kick ass until they do I don't know man you're pretty jacked you're only 170 160. uh no class yeah I think you'll give them a really hard you want to go against guys as big as me I'm super weight class okay well done and you do really you leave back to Norway yeah I will do it on the best for last yeah it was like the dessert know so when I go when I try arm wrestling I just said here I'm going too quickly probably right mind that's how you work and you just try the back of my mind yeah I only had V2 did V3 is moving efficiently you keep saying Planet like in the deadlift yeah I don't want to spend breathe at the top and pull straight away right hunched over yeah so how much do you deadlift my was uh in the summer that I just passed yeah and um 307 kg for one 307 yeah 307 kilograms yeah that D's at that time yeah yeah my chest was enormous that heavy I mean you're not like half door heavy I mean you're as strong pretty much power per but they're overall strong interest is just much another extreme for sure yeah yeah that must with a Thor for two months in Iceland seeing it's something to behold yeah it was just jaw know I didn't want to talk about half soil with that real beef or is it it's real beef I would yeah I tend to hate each other yeah I mean just yeah I mean they don't even want to be in the same crazy I mean most people after boxing but that didn't happen I guess it was get the next one come on and then feet up yep take your feet up here yeah oh is it too hard that move I just wasted looks so easy now you remember how you were so easy you know so it's just for the yeah for sure you're right if you like if you from now you'd do everything so easily think so muscle memory and stuff I'll give you yeah yeah that's you have to make sure you stay a lot because I'm like oh yeah moving I'm moving um let's see something else like to see you go on one of uh that's wild ah it's like his hands are really wow that's impressive I wish you could see I hope you can see how little fingertips really impressive and so what would probably something like that yeah V8 so there's a that too actually yeah definitely conquer it the that's the hardest one in here it looks like so for because there's B over there right that's a we don't we don't have the vehicle it's that's in is v17 oh that's the hardest humanly possible outside the holes are so small it's so steep that but even for me it looks like a blank wall it I need to see that yeah yeah I need to see yeah I'm excited I'm bad at those that's shocking hands too I think that's also a disadvantage I to like you I have small hands so what's your we could try something that's more on the legs strong legs so the less steep it is the more on more vertical or even slabby should I try the v9 small holes feel this one whole that's that's like grab onto this there's no difference you can feel my fingertips look that's my fingertip right there oh that's ridiculous it's pretty sandbag enough yeah v9 is hard geez oh ah man oh my God I was going all the way up there wow sheesh wow those ridges are incredibly thin they're small ceiling yeah that's well that's nice yes I'd love or maybe there's like a V3 or before that there's wow and then you could even skip and you have big footholds here as well what was to do it that way oh wow you're not kidding two go like blowing your load and then okay you yep yeah yeah you'll do that come on nice skip to like uh you could go straight with the turn and then move your feet up there you go get that you you're gonna do it I'm sure yeah come on yeah there you go come on yeah feet up next one is good come on yeah next one straight up come on you got yeah smash that one next one is super good come on go just match it two hands yeah and then you can V2 yeah ah it's all about finding something that yeah it's addicting I don't think it was an easy say it was not easy too yeah we have strong I need your time more vertical yeah I don't feel like right hanging from a ceiling yeah yeah well you want to uh I have enough juice in me for one uh let's try a V3 then okay B3 yeah we have to two so if you said it feels like it's addictive is addicting yeah yeah I barely got the V2 oh I here it was like oh yeah yeah amazing progress would look really impressive on the wall you're would I think you'd be five like yeah today yeah but if you're just getting this week in like I think you'll do V5 it's pretty good to know I mean you're competitive you know how to train that really helps and personally competitiveness doing like some competitiveness right yeah in like there's a V5 that's your competitor account pace yeah yeah versus there being someone like yeah but you would prefer that though having yeah for sure yeah 100 I feel the atmosphere uh because he's well he's huge but yeah he does a because Eddie did so good yeah so and Eddie Brian has this really long arms so right and actually yeah I'd love to see that I'd pay to split it three ways uh yeah what do you think about this one uh yeah but look at this ah I mean compared to comfortable okay I'm gonna eat my own words very come on there nice come on yeah come on keep going just a few more holes come on go now I'll get you you can get your right see the huge one all right yeah you could yes nice match that one come on you're almost one and then the last one smash that I mean this is a lot steeper than it looks are probably gonna comment that the uh so that was good and it's a long all right so how was it a lot of fun yeah you ever I definitely might yeah I wanna so I think that I would go cliff climbing yeah well thank you for joining me yeah that all right finally me oh yeah uh you guys Snapchat you're active everywhere right yeah snap show right yeah and make sure to like And