A palindrome is a word that is spelled word racecar. Forwards is spelled R-A-C-E-C-A-R. A palindrome. No. But kind of. The title of this where I'm going with this. Here's another CYSTM on vsauce3 I said *Morse Code* which means Wow in Morse code. Morse code began in the 19th century when Samuel FB Morse a portrait of Marquis de Lafayette he of get some of the details right but he working on that study he received a telling him that his wife was sick. He away but by the time he got there she buried. Morse was so upset by how slow a worked on faster electronic transmits letters using patterns of two and those of long duration. Here is Morse you can see a letter like V okay the followed by one long duration signal. because the connection between the signals, dots and dashes or dits and dahs, the order of the letters. That's because frequency at which a letter appears in long it takes to send that message using done in fact it's only truly done code messages. There are links down in lessons and learn how to really get a sounds like in Morse code but today I these works really well. It won't make me remember what each letter is in Morse flowchart looking thing. Here's how the start. A movement to the left represents movement to the right represents a long we start with a short signal a dot we what E is in Morse code. One more dot brings us to I so I is two dots and sure is H and there you have it. If I go all then put in a long signal well then I takes me to V and sure enough V is dot organizing Morse code is very cool Morse code just means a whole visual visual mnemonic created by Robert Guides handbook back in 1918. Here it is alphabet A to Z with dots and dashes letters. As you can see E just has one helpful. I applaud the effort that went like you would read a book not all of them. There's something better. helped me so let's get right into those. letters of the English alphabet as well mnemonic works is it associates with you a clue as to the pattern of dots and word or phrase contains emphasized or aren't. Stressed syllables are dashes. Unstressed syllables are dots. You might be able to come up with a system that served me extremely well. Let's begin. The by a dash: boop-boop. Okay so to remember that think of a word that starts with A, specifically the word Unstressed. Stressed. The opposite would apart. We pronounce it apart. So apart is remember B: boot to the head. Boot to dockworker. Dockworker. E is just eh! F is a little bit weird. This really works for me. I never seem to forget that F is the letter F isn't even in it. The phrase good gravy. H is hippity hop. I is I I. J is to L with it. M is mm-hmm. smell. Q is God save the Queen. R is rotation. S is si si si. T is tall. U is underwear? V looks like the fifth: duh duh duh duhhh. W is a white whale. X is x marks the spot. Y is a yellow yo-yo. And Z is a zinc period and the comma piece of cake. Watch this. For a period you just think a stop a stop a stop and for the comma I love comma it's a comma. Now these might seem a little bit silly or weird or possibly confusing to you. That's fine. that this system has stuck with me because it's just so strange but I love kind of rudimentary level because Morse the Capitol Records building. The light in Morse code every night. :et's figure One of us. To L with it. To L with it. Yellow yo yo. A white whale. One of us. One of us. Dock Worker. Hollywood! Pretty, pretty cool. Alright now let's talk about pulp. palindrome. Well obviously pulp is not a palindrome when you're using the letters of the I don't think so. Alright well let's do Morse code. We know that P is dot dash dash dot. A poopy smell. Ok a U is under where? Under where L is 2 L with it. 2 L with it. And finally P this. Pulp may not look like a palindrome at it in Morse code. It is symmetric Pulp in Morse code is the same backwards Colonel Jose espero hid a Morse code made just for that purpose and then was working on rescuing had radios and code but the people holding them captive song translated into English said this: 19 rescued. You're next. Don't lose hope. During World War two major Alexis Casdagli, a British prisoner of war was held captive in a series of Nazi prison camps and during his time in those camps he learned to sew. In December of 1941 he Look at those dots and dashes. They are Morse code for two king and the other well it's something I channel because I refuse to have a below in the description where he can that kept him captive were unaware of they allowed him to hang it up in all of During the Vietnam War Jeremiah Andrew Denton jr. was a prisoner of war. He was forced to record message to those watching who might be everything wasn't okay. While he spoke he the word torture. One last thing about Morse code. Because it communicates using seemingly two kinds of signals short binary code. In fact Wikipedia has it is it binary? This is a really good analysis in this episode but here's recently. Yes Morse code uses two kinds between those signals. In Morse code the The amount of time that a *dit* a bit or of paper each column is one of those separated by the length of one *dit* one of paper I am going to write &quot;Hi U.&quot; I'm this message quicker. Here's how that dashes that make up a letter are the duration of one dot. Letters are separated by a length of time equal to the duration of three dots time equal to seven dots so this is what one of these columns is the length of we begin with H which means four dots first dot and then we wait a unit of third dot wait fourth dot. That's the equal to three dots letting everyone letter is I so after waiting three we do dot wait one dot and we're done or moved two three four five six seven spaces and The where is a dash and it takes up than a dot. This is &quot;Hi U&quot; with all of down below that allow you to learn Morse looking at this we can now see that in a system. You need three elements to convey everything that it can and the third one is silence. Interestingly these are the that you need. For a dot think of it like signal is on and it's only on for that you follow it by a 0 and that represents letter. A dash we can represent like this. We can make it three dots so three times longer than a dot and then follow it dots and dashes within a letter are built into our symbols for those letters. Finally actually only need this to be two zeros same letter we just use a dot and that letter so another dot. In fact I can just write this like this a dot would be 1 0 and we use the separation character which is end of that dot we get 3 we need between another dot which is 1 0 another dot 1 0 separation characters needed. There are 7 between words but since we already have dot or dash then we just need six total two so there's one there's two and zeros between the words and then finally the dash which is 1 1 1 and then a 0 piece of the letter U. So there you go that? Check out the links below to truly think it is so totally worth it. It is check out Jake's episode of system it is science of Mad Max mm-hmm okay that's and as always thanks for watching