Second wave feminists I've talked to, they're very worried about the woke gender identity movement because it's reducing women to just body parts. Like a guy can say, Well, if I just get breast implants and I can have a vaginal plastic made out of a piece of my skin, then I'm in. I'm the woman, right? It's like, well, no, because women are not just tits and ass, right? I mean, there's more to it than that. For decades, Michael Shermer has been one of the most popular and provocative explicator of science to popular audiences. Having authored bestselling books such as Why People Believe Weird Things, Why Darwin Matters, The Moral Arc and the Mind of the Market. He founded Skeptic magazine in 1992, hosts a video podcast with leading activists and intellectuals and for nearly 20 years authored a widely read column for Scientific American in which he debunked beliefs in UFOs and other paranormal phenomena, explained the rise of the new atheism and showed how evolution systematically informs human behavior. Shermer's work is deeply and explicitly rooted in libertarian and enlightenment ideas about individual responsibility, free market economics, rationality and the search for something approaching objective truth. In 2019, Scientific American cut him loose, a move he ascribes to the publication suffocating embrace of the sort of identity politics and wokeness that he says dominates academic circles and increasingly the culture at large. Last fall, Shermer, who holds a Ph.D. in the history of science and teaches skepticism 1 to 1 at Chapman University, started a weekly substack where he hosts podcasts and the columns he would have written for Scientific American. The 67 year old former competitive cyclist talked with Reason during Freedom Fest, an annual gathering in Las Vegas, about the fundamental clash between wokeness and scientific inquiry, how hard it is to overcome the cognitive biases we all have. Why he thinks trans athletes should be banned from most women's sports. Why we have so much trouble acknowledging moral and technological progress. And why he now identifies as a classical liberal rather than as a libertarian. Michael Shermer, thanks for talking to Reason. Nice to see you again. So you last year. Last fall, you started a Substack publication to go along with Skeptic magazine and whatnot. And one of the early pieces was titled &quot;Scientific American Goes Woke.&quot; And you were a longtime columnist for Scientific American, a very popular science communicator. What? Describe what you wrote about in &quot;Scientific American Goes Woke&quot; and why you started a Substack. Right. So I started Scientific American in 2001 and I worked almost 18 years, 214 consecutive monthly columns. I was going for Steve Gould's 300 that he did in Natural History Museum, which would have taken me to April 2025, so I didn't quite make that. Yeah, they terminated the column. You know, there was no particular reason given other than, well, we're going different ways. And, you know, it's just it's time for a change. You know, they didn't say, hey, we've gone woke and you're an old, old guy, right? So yeah, but I could kind of see the writing in the wall, last couple of columns I had written. We're dealing with some issues kind of related to race and and sex and gender and that sort of thing. And I could feel the uncomfortableness in the editorial process and then boom, you know, they they let it go. So, I mean, I don't know for sure, but that that was it. So I, I started the substack just because I still had more writing in me. I like writing the columns, but this gives me a little more flexibility if I want to go more than 700 words like no more and. Right, you know, and also the new media try to keep up with, you know, I have a podcast and what everybody's what all the kids are doing these yeah yeah it's hard to hard to know what's the right path to take. But it seemed like the substack thing was a way to go. The finances for it, you know, are channeled through the skeptic society, which is kind of my day job. You know, so the first one, you know, Scientific American goes, well, I recounted my own experiences, but also I went through a bunch of articles they had published recently that were clearly what most people would identify as sort of a Far-Left woke progressive politics. And one of the most, you know, notorious or discussed pieces had to do with E.O. Wilson being a racist. Right. Being a scientific racist. He's wrote the book Sociobiology. He you know, in a lot of ways, you know, his vision of taking evolution and seriously applying it or trying to apply to human society and whatnot had always been a fraught project. Right. I mean, he was getting pitchers of water poured over him in the seventies at conferences. Yeah, but that could you talk a little bit about that.