In this episode of MarieTV we do have some So if you have little ones around, grab your Hey, it's Marie Forleo and you are watching and life you love. If you have something inside of you that you write it, you want to bake it, you want to for a real treat. Today we're talking about what it takes is really the person to show us how. Elizabeth Gilbert is the number one New York and several other internationally bestselling Gilbert began her career writing for Harper's and GQ, and was a 3 time finalist for the The follow up memoir, Committed, became an Her latest novel, The Signature of All Things, Times, O Magazine, The Washington Post, The Elizabeth's latest book, Big Magic: Creative mystery of creativity, is now available wherever Liz, thank you so much for taking the time My pleasure, I love being here. So Big Magic is your new book and, I have When I got this... this little copy below it's kind of ratty... Oh, I love seeing flags coming out of books. Flags. So, I have to tell you that I didn't want and I would savor it just like you would savor on today because it's brilliant and I feel keep going back to again and again and again. So I wanna start by asking you what was the What inspired you to write this? Wow. You know what it is? It's a response to years of being out in the projects they want to be making and are and are not doing. You know what I mean? And often times when I'm in public I meet things and they wanna tell me about it, but And when they come to me with their problems because they know I love to talk about creativity, very rational, reasonable kind of material doing it that they can lay out as an explanation. But when you start to scratch away at that, fear. Yes. Always and only fear. I don't care what the excuses or the rationalization doing the thing that's calling to them, They're afraid they don't have the talent, they're afraid it's already been done or insulted or criticized or, worse, ignored. They're afraid there's no point, they're you know, they just have these, like, tumbling And I see it so much and I hear the same questions "Well, let's officially talk about this." Yes. You know? Like, let's actually really break this down more creative lives without being so scared. One of the things you say about fear in the Yeah. And I loved that because I feel like in the in spirituality in certain circles, you know, your fear. Punch it in the face! Punch it in the face, dude! Yeah. Or kick it or whatever. Yeah. Or we, you know, just demonize it... Right. ...in this way and I was wondering if you Yeah, I mean, the thing is, I have no desire genuinely fearless human beings I've ever You know? Like... and neither one of those things is because there's something missing from that Yes. ...that's very essential and you see it You're like, "Wow, you are a dangerous wanna be anywhere near you." And so I'm not interested in fearlessness. Somebody said to me the other day, "Tell "I... it's adorable that you think I conquered..." Did you read the book? Yeah, that's also... I'm afraid right this minute. I'm afraid, like, almost every minute of So I haven't conquered it and I'm not Actually, what my relationship with fear begins appreciation because fear is the reason I It's the reason you're still alive today. Every single one of us can point to a moment afraid. Because they said... the thing, the voices are too big." You know, "This car is going too fast." "Don't get into the apartment with that "This street is not safe to walk down." All of us are here because our fear is constantly its job beautifully. It's just that it's all jacked up on Red doesn't know the difference between a genuinely of a nervy situation. You know? So whenever I feel fear arise, which is constantly things and creativity will always provoke a realm with an uncertain outcome, and fear It thinks you're gonna die. So any time I start a new creative project say to it, "Thank you so much for how much anything bad to happen to me, and I really Your services are probably not needed here Like, no one's gonna die. No one's gonna die, it's ok." You know, and I just talk to it but in this against it, I acknowledge its importance, I'm like, "You can come with me, but I'm Yeah. You know? I loved the metaphor that you shared. Yeah. It's like fear is gonna be in the car... Yeah. ...but it's gonna be in the backseat... Yeah. ...and it's not gonna drive. Or choose the snacks or hold the map or touch Like, fear doesn't get to make any decisions all due respect to Grandfather Fear, it simply because that's a newer part of our brain, So you can't let it have any control over them down one idea after another. It'll just be like, "Nope, don't do that. Nope, too risky. Nope." And it'll just be one no after another and want your life to be. One of the things I love that you shared, idea it's all been done before. I think it's the thing that I hear the most Right. ...and when I talk to everyone out in the Yeah. ...about their ideas or their businesses or everything's been done before. And I was wondering if you can speak to originality Ok, cool. I'm glad you brought this up. So whenever I talk to somebody who has an generally speaking within the next 2 minutes very original. It's already been done." And I always say, "But it has not yet been It has not yet been done by you. And the answer is, yeah, guaranteed it's inventive and inquisitive and creative and and pretty much everything has been done. You know? And that's fine. Like, even Shakespeare, half of his stories there aren't that many new stories to tell. But he told them in a way that had never been still borrowing them from him. We're all just borrowing from each other. And even the most original piece of creativity like, "That's groundbreaking, I've never I could bring in, like, 10 professors and obviously this is somebody who had read this had... they were playing off of this or they They're responding." All we do as humans is respond to stuff that's But you're allowed to add to the pile. You're allowed to add to the pile and what really original, I feel like I can admire What moves me is the humanity in an authentic something, whatever it was, because they had them to life, because it ignited their soul. That's what gives the shimmer of gold to been changed, my mind's been changed, the So I don't care if it's been done. I don't care if it's been done 10 thousand If you need to do it, do it. You know, there's 2 things I want to comment One, have you checked out Everything is a No. Oh, I can't... ok, so I'm gonna email You're gonna love it. It speaks to this idea and it traces back... Oh, that is a great shorthand for everything Yeah. But it's brilliant and I think you're But it... it really is true and I think there's Yeah. I know in my own creative life... Right. ...the pressure, you know, to keep creating boundaries and growth and doing something yourself crazy. There's so many ways to make yourself crazy. Right. And that's number nine on the list. But, yeah, exactly. And... but the second thing that you tipped that I absolutely loved and it was a real I want to thank you for writing it. It was about really examining your motivations. Right. And, you know, if you want to help people... And it's like, you know, you want to write Please, don't. Please don't help me. Please don't help me. But this idea of creating because it brings Right, right. Exactly. I mean, I think when you're a good person a person of humanity, then of course when I probably shouldn't do this unless it will Right? Because that's... because we're good people. Yes. And we're raised to believe that. I love this quote by this British newspaper who live for others by the anguished expressions You know? You're just like, "Oh, God. Here she comes with her really good intentions. Like, I just feel like... like please don't." You know? Yes. And... and also it's a heavy mandate for in your life, which is how you express your I love helping people. I think there are much more efficient ways Like, I give money to good organizations and kind of stuff. My art though is mine. And even the art that I make that ends up Love, for instance. People will say, "Thank you so much for It really helped me, it changed me." I didn't sit down to write that book saying, You know? Like, I was such a hot mess at that point shoes at that moment. Like, the last thing I had any business doing give you the answers." You know, it... that book was about me just in my own life. And then accidentally, because I followed the work I wanted to make, I accidentally That's a side effect that can... that can And I have a quote in the book from this wonderful becomes help." All love eventually becomes help. So if you wanna help, just love. Just love what you're doing, love who you're living, love... whatever the thing is that this thing that people will want to be near the very kindest thing that you could possibly It is not Sunday, but we are preaching right It's Sunday every day. Amen to all of that. So I remember reading this particular part laughed and I did my Jersey fist pump, right, Jersey in the house doubled up here today. Jersey, seriously. And so when I read shit sandwiches and day Ok, so I need to say this, I believe that is required reading for every human, but... Thank you. You're so welcome. Is... they're so vital for anyone trying entrepreneurial aspirations. Right. You know, they wanna be a writer, they wanna Anything. Wanna start a business, wanna... Yes. So if we could start with the fact, and I how I... I was like, "She gave words to it. I love it." That finding your true purpose is really about really in for. Love that. Well, this is... I wish it were my idea. It's not my idea. I borrowed it but I will lay it out here anyway. Yes. The idea is that every pursuit, no matter you are... it feels to you, no matter how comes with a shit sandwich. And so the question is not, "What do I love?" The question is, "What do I love so much that comes along with that thing?" So for me in my life writing is the thing 7 years that I was not getting published and waitress, as a bartender, as an au pair, as as a cook, and I was coming home tired and and sitting down and doing my real job, which And then to go to the mailbox the next day And then say, "Do I still wanna do this? Because this shit sandwich sucks." Am I ready to take another bite? You know? And I did still wanna do it and now even as there's no end to the shit sandwiches. It's like, "Um, oh, hello horrible review That's your shit sandwich today, Liz. You still wanna do this work?" Yup. Yeah, I still do. Still worth it. Like, hello awful comment on social media dog shit. You know? And just has, like, chosen every possible their system fast enough how much disregard Yup. Still wanna do this thing? Yeah, I still wanna do it. You know, so that's the question. Because if the first time you encounter the this isn't worth it," then that's not Yes. And there are plenty of things in life that... I've been like, "So not worth it. So not worth it. Like, this is not... I don't wanna do this. Like, whatever the ben... alleged benefits I'm not down... Soulcycle. No. You know? Like, I know it's probably really good for this is too hard. I'm out. I'm... you'll not be seeing me here again. You know? Like... and I love my sisters at Soulcycle, throw up when I exercise. So it's not for me. Yeah. You know? And... and so that's the question. So if you go into this thing thinking, "If I stand in my truth, then everything will be great. It just means at the end of the day when you end, on the balance, is this still better And the answer is still yeah, this thing is on the right path. I can't tell you how many people will think and there's lights and I have a blowout Yeah. It's like I don't do this every day. Like, so much work goes into what those little Yeah. And the rest of the time there's a lot of There's a lot of shit... There's a lot, they're lined up like Jersey Yeah. I had a friend that I speak about in the book a far better writer than I was. Far better and far more naturally talented And just got so enraged that the same thing which was nothing. You know? It's like you're doing this work and you're And I just remember the day where he was like, And my sense, honestly, that day was like and I was like, "Are you gonna finish that, Because I'll eat it. Because I, like, I'll finish your half eaten..." like, to stay in this game, that's how much Yes. And... and so that's a really important, realistic one. I think it's genius. And, you know, the other portion about day This is something, so when I... Right. ...first started, I started a life coaching I don't know what I was thinking, but I bartended everything I could to not be desperate during Right. So I could write content, so I could not be more depressing thing in life is there? You have to pay me! I'm your life coach and I'm losing my So... It's not working! It's not... nothing's working! But... Yeah, that's not very... that doesn't instill No, right? It's really not like living your best life. And so anyway, I love this because, you know, life could support me and sustain me financially. And frankly, I wasn't sure at the beginning Right. You know, I didn't know if that was going Right. And so I'd love to hear you talk about your where people have these ideas. And there are some people, there are unicorns burning the bridge behind me," and they Right. But what I've seen over time is they're Right. Look, if that's how you have to do it... Yes. ...if you can't feel like you're alive unless the match, walk away, that's... Fire it up. ...that's your deal. Yeah. That's not the contract that I've ever know, we live in this sort of bumper sticker always want to edit are the... with, like, There's the one that says, "Jump and the that said, "What would you do if you knew Right? So the edits I want to make are, "Jump and you do even if failure wasn't even, like, is a long edit and makes for a terrible bumper But what I'm getting at is I don't like I don't like the ethic that says if you try into it, you're gonna get everything that Because we're all grownups here, so can You may or may not get everything that you You might put everything into something and mortgage your house, risk your family, like, in a really precarious situation such that Right. Right? That's the other thing. Such that you've been so battered by how so cornered and strapped and anxious and shamed it feels like to give 100% to something, you I'm gonna take nothing but safe choices and you just shut down. Right? I never wanna see somebody put in that situation. So the contract that I made with writing when made my deal with the universe and said, "I'm one of the promises that I made to the work I will support both of us. I'm a resourceful person, my parents raised I will do whatever I have to do to pay the on the side of this that is not contingent And I have watched so many creative people they are not truly creative unless their creativity And if it doesn't pay the bills, which it and then it might not. You might go out of fashion, your thing might and all of a sudden you're stuck. And I see those people go into depression, You have to be child like in the pursuit of And this is a really big difference. Childlike means walking into the world with go of bitterness and ready to be amazed, ready That's childlike. Childish means I want it and I should have I don't like the way this turned out, it's now, nothing ever goes my way, I didn't grow tools, I didn't get to go to the right school, And... and just because I want it, I should That's childish. Yeah. So you have to separate those things out. I believe you can be childlike and mature And mature means looking after yourself in Yes. You know, I love this conversation because so much, like, flag waving. "You can do it! Good job! Whatever!" "Take the risk!" And I'm like, you know, I grew up in a very my parents didn't have a lot of money at all. My mom could, like, take a dollar bill and, I would love to put your mom and my mom in see what they could do with it. But I'm so thankful. Me too. So thankful for that. Me too. Because it's guided and inspired and informed Yeah. ...that haven't necessarily been easy but long term. Yeah. I wanna shift gears and ask you something if you're open to it. So I wanna talk a little bit about your process Ok. Because myself, like, tens of millions of had the great pleasure to see you in I guess Oh, at the Oprah thing. Oh, man. Myself and... Elizabeth Gilbert! That's my fake... that's what I do when Oprah introducing me. We just need to record it. When I get out of the shower. Can you just record it and put it on your But you were absolutely... you were spectacular and I... Oh, you're so kind to say so. Thank you. It's the truth and I was with my dear friend we... we had loved you before, but we both looked She just took it away." So my question for you is, a few questions Yeah. One, was that process of becoming a speaker Like, did you have to go, "Ok, I have to Or did it...? Right. Yeah. What was that like? I'm first a writer, second a speaker. Writing is easier for me and I'm sort of Writing is probably... like, when I'm sitting down writing even in the world where I feel like I am the least You know what I mean? Like, that most authentic version of yourself not trying anything, you're not putting truth of who you are. That's what I feel like when I'm writing. Speaking, you are selling something in a way kind of way of interacting and so I've really And... like, for instance, the first time when Eat, somebody had me give a speech, I had a speech at a podium because I didn't know. Yeah. You know? And I stood there and I read those words that in awhile I looked up and... As you do. As you do. And it was... that's a way that you can I was thinking, "Oh, this isn't how you and be read to for 40 minutes. So you don't get to do it this way anymore." You know? "You're gonna have to find a way to be see the top of your head." Yeah. "And they want something else." Right? So that was the beginning of changing it. And then I started to work with being sort an outline and then just sort of telling stories it's a whole different kind of thing. Yeah, I was gonna say, do you mind if we hang No, no. I'm happy to. Because when I heard you speak it was as though I was like, that's literally what had Kris They were amazing. And I was like, "I wonder if she scripted cherish your words. Yeah. And I'm a person who loves words and so, looking at how do people do what they do, because you did it exquisitely. Well, you're very kind and I will tell you at a stadium tour, you prepare. Yes. And I worked on that speech for 6 months and Yes. ...was memorized. Well, but... That was me just reading a poem that was memorized at 45, 50 minutes was just a memorized piece But I want you to hear this from an audience why I wanted to ask you about this because as someone... we just watch, I observe so many things of And I... I could feel in my cells and in my bones, of work." It's a huge amount of work. A huge amount of work. I was walking. The only way I can learn a speech is to walk 5 miles a day on the side of the road giving You know, like, that's how much I put into And the other thing is, I had this really one of those, because it was an 8 city tour. Yes. And it's scary, it's Oprah Winfrey. She's sitting in the front row. Like, I invited you, I trusted you with my Go ahead. What do you got? And you're like... 20 thousand people. Yeah. I'm not used to speaking to. I mean, who is? Like, a place where, like, Bon Jovi plays. You know? Yeah. So... so for me there's this great thing, am I worthy, do I belong here. And I was backstage about 15 minutes before And... and then I had this thought where I They don't need your fear, because they have Like, that is the one thing they don't need. Because they have... everyone who's in that need. So you're not gonna... if you bring them coals to Newcastle." Yes. "Ice to eskimos. That they have. They don't need your insecurity. Again, they've got it covered. They don't need your sense of low self worth, you belong. Believe me, they know those feelings. Here's what... here's what you got hired to do today. Is to model to them dignity and composure So they need you to come out and stand in 25 thousand people with an unshaking voice what they came here for. And if you bring them anything less than that, And there are times in our lives where we our fear. Not that day. Not that day. Like, that's it. And I was like, "Oprah Winfrey is the person you can do this, she's not an idiot. Do it." You know? And bring them what they don't have. Don't bring them what they already have. Well, can I tell you, you did it. Thank you. And you brought it, like, to the nth power. Thank you. It was absolutely genius. And thank you for just sharing the behind piece of the puzzle where you can see someone show and they have these ideas that it's "Oh, she's a really good speaker." "Yeah, she's really good. She probably, you know, just made that up Yeah. And most often I find that that's not true, their own dreams or thinking about upleveling zone, you know, it's so incredibly generous gives people like, "Oh, ok. Liz felt that." I wish there was a shortcut to all of it. Like, every single thing that's of value always looking for the how to hotwire it. Like, there's gotta be a way to do this nah. None of it. Spiritual growth, personal growth, relationships, Like, there's not one single piece of it there's a way to get to the top of this Yeah, yeah. No, totally. There's no hack. There's no hack. And I actually hate that. That word is becoming on the top of my pet And I'm like, "Stop it, stop it. Just do the work." Yeah. By the way, hackers. How do you think they got so good at hacking? They sat there in their bedrooms for, like, Like, that, like, there is no such thing as like, "I know how to get into the Pentagon." You know? Like, these guys are really... they're like really skilled. They put the time in. They totally did. So that word doesn't even really work for I wanna go to the power of finishing. Because you said something, another genius want it to be perfect, I want it to be finished. Yes. And that is another one of those things where you know, 15 half created bridges, half things and they're afraid to start something new habit of getting something out there even Oh, man. This is a huge one. This is a really huge one for women because is, of course, the murderer of all good things. Perfectionism is just... it's a serial killer. It just goes around killing joy, spontaneity, all. And perfectionism I think is a particularly fear in high heeled shoes, because it's It's like a really fancy haute couture version itself as a virtue and it can trick you into special. Yes. Because people... You have such high standards. Yeah, I have such high standards. I'm like, look, I just can't rest until I'm a perfectionist. It's what people say in job interviews as Yeah. You know, well, I guess I just care too much. You know? And you're like... And you're like, "Wow, you're telling you say that is that it's gonna be very but probably to begin something. Because the true perfectionist won't even not gonna be the thing that they can... they're And their tastes and their standards are so I... there's this woman I recently was talking book maybe 15 or 20 years ago and hasn't been And I was talking to her about it and she of crap work and I just don't wanna put another So I just won't release this thing until I And I said to her, "I am so glad I never full of garbage. Like, how is that your responsibility? It's not... this is not your problem." And I was like, "It's not my problem if You know? It's not my problem. It's not even my fault. Like, it's not my problem." My problem... the contract that I made, the only way I finished I'd never written a novel before. So why would it be good? Who, like, wakes up and knows how to write So I was 50 pages into this thing and I'm not... and I know what a good novel is, and This isn't working. And, you know, every dignified part of me drawer and walk away. And then I just had, like, this, like, warrior was standing and I stood up and I said out, a good writer. I just promised the universe I would be a That is the only thing I committed to. This is not my problem." And I just sort of said to, like, the faeries want it to be good you're gonna have to this is what I can do. If you want to add something, feel... any time, you know, feel free." And the other commitment I made was I do not novel in a drawer. There's enough of that in the world. You know? And the other thing was this voice where I what the criticism would be because I knew And I just said out loud to all my future kind of language I can use on your show. Every kind of language. We're from Jersey, girl. I said, "If you don't like it, go write And you know what? You won't. Guess what? You won't. You won't. And guess what? I did and, therefore, I won." Yes. "Because mine's finished and yours doesn't this is like an imaginary conversation, by of me. Yeah. You know, but that's how I got through that because as my mother always taught me, done You know? The world is full of a bunch of really, really Yes. And if you can just finish something, you're else because most people won't. And what will make you finish it is not discipline, Because we all start our project on day one And on day 2 we all look at what we wrote Because what we wrote on day one is... or is horrible. Horrible. And the people who go on day 3 and pick it It's not rigor that's gonna get you there, I'm not Hemingway. I'm just gonna do what I can." And you forgive yourself for disappointing And that's it, it's just like a little Yeah. I'll tell you, that's the thing I need this thing in me, I can go into that driving book so much. Let's move on to hungry ghosts and failure, And I love the quote from Clive James: "Failure It asks you if you really wanna go on making Oh, I love that line so much. Ok, so the other day I was at an event and furious at inspiration and creativity right start a statement. Yes. Really caught my attention. And she said, "Because I did the thing that I risked everything. I quit my job, I believed in my dream, I followed come along with me on this project that I And I lost money and I lost friends and I And I said, "Who... who are you mad at?" And she said, "I'm mad at inspiration for me." And, in other words, she jumped and the net Right? And... and it was such a, like, I could feel to kind of handle because she was just, like, she was feeling so broken. And I said, "But when did inspiration promise Like, I know bumper stickers promise you things inspiration itself ever promise a human being Other than the amazing experience of working That's all it ever promises you is I will this thing. So when inspiration says to you, "Let's you say, "Yeah, let's do it," and you and you just drive off that cliff with it like, "Wee!" and maybe it'll catch you or maybe you're gonna, like, hit the ground And then you're gonna be like, "What just Like, I thought we were a team." At that point inspiration is sitting next looking at your broken body with this big one thing to you, and that thing is, "Wanna You wanna do it... should we do it... that Should we do it again?" And you're like, "I'm in tra... I'm in, like, I'm in a body cast because And inspiration is like, "But, yeah, you... Don't you wanna do it again?" And you may say, "No, I never wanna do it Or you may say, "I need a few months to not having stuck that landing." You know? But every morning I guarantee you you'll will be like, "Hey, wanna do it again? Should we do that thing again?" Great friend. And one of these days you'll be like, "Oh, I mean, we're only here for such a short Yes. Let's drive off another cliff. You know? But as you go into that more and more you in the car. Like, there are protective measures that you you don't lose everything. Yes. You know? That you have some sort of room and cushion invites you to take another leap you're still intact, yeah. Let's do it. Because there's no better thing to spend Liz, I feel like you and I could talk for I'm gonna... I have 2 more things before I let you boogie. Sure. The creative paradox and making space for because I love the richness of paradox. This idea that if my creativity must be the it also must not matter at all. Oh, jeez. Ok, once again. Yes. We're all grownups here. Yes. I do believe that it is humanly possible for ideas as true at the same time. I agree. And this is why, for instance, I'm capable empirical person who believes in evolution and thinks it's all fascinating and at the and alive to mystery, magic, and miracle. No problem. Yes. Like, I do not see this as a contradiction. I have... I have a big mind, you have a big mind, we You know? And... and so the paradox that you have to gonna do any kind of creativity is exactly As you're approaching it you have to approach And then sometimes minutes later you have "Eh, it doesn't matter." You know? So, like, when I'm writing, that's what time is I'm sitting down and I'm like, written sentence in the entire world and it to bring anything less than that." And I'm, like, laboring over this sentence and then I go back later and read the paragraph And then I'm like, "Ah, screw it." So, like, you love it and then you dismiss Yes. You love it and then you dismiss it. It is not... the thing is, your work has... I talk about this in Big Magic too, is when It ain't your baby. It ain't your baby, it's not a human baby. It's not a human baby. There's a lot of differences between this Like, for instance, this. Watch. Like, oh my God. You'd arrest me if I did that to a human But I can totally do that. I can do that. I can rip pages out of it, it's just a thing. It's just a thing I made. It's not a baby. And it's independent of me now. Yes. Because it's finished, so it doesn't need Yes. And people can attack it and they can criticize parts of it, they can do all sorts of stuff And it will be fine and I will be fine because thing. Right? So as much as I cared about it while I wrote And what I also have to recognize is if anything I am and everything that I have learned and my life is because of the creative things In other words, they were making me. Right? That's why you have to let your creativity It's building you. It's creating you. So it's not the other way around. So, like, don't get all precious about the Get precious about it while you're making and should be precious. Once it's done, bleh. Kick it to the curb and make another one. You know? You're out. It's like you're old enough to drive, You don't need me anymore. You know? Like, just let it go. Buy your own lunch. Exactly. Under this roof? Not... you know, like, that's the sort of But don't be like that as you're doing it. Because as you're doing it love it, cherish Forget about it. True Jersey style. So I wanna leave on what I think was maybe between being a martyr and being a trickster like I was schooled in the pain aspect of Even though I'm a pretty joyful, fun, playful Right. ...somehow if I sit down to write or create gotta suit up and this is gonna be..." This is gonna hurt. This is gonna hurt. This is gonna hurt. Ok, so I think there are two kinds of creators tricksters. And most of us were schooled in martyrdom. You know, we come out of a pretty heavy Christian your suffering you shall be redeemed, really. And... and your scars are the badges of honor And how much you destroy yourself and everyone shows us how seriously you take your work. I reject it. I reject it. The other way is the trickster way. And so the martyr walks around saying, "I trickster says, "I didn't come here to suffer." You know? And the martyr says, "By my wounds I shall a card, any card." The trickster is playing with this whole thing You know, the martyr says, "I'm gonna how you'll know that I was serious." And the trickster says, "I'm gonna walk The martyr is like Sir Thomas Moore and the at how to sort of subvert and do things differently in a transgressive way. You know? And that, I feel like, is where the instinct Because art does that, it turns things upside with things, it... it de-sanctifies the holy Yes. See, the martyrdom is all about this kind break you. And the tricksterdom is like what if we don't sacred relic? What if I turn... what if I, like, put sparkles on it? What if I...? You know? I get out my bedazzler. What if I just get my glue gun and... and Like, what if nothing's holy and everything's That's what art has been asking for centuries, You know, even the Sistine Chapel has a bunch "What if the Pope is not infallible? What if I, like, give him donkey ears? What if I...?" Yes. You know, there's always, like, this sort And all we wanna do is take it so seriously process. And so if you can learn how to dance with you because we all have martyr in us and we And... and trust. That's the thing about the trickster, the Trusts that if the trickster takes the ball, knows it's coming back. It might come back 3 years from now, it might it might come back, like, in some really comic, be a response. And the only thing the trickster wants to sense of, like, put it out there, see what Put it out there, see what happens. And it's just a more fun way to live that macho. And... and that's the way that I've always And whenever I catch myself being the martyr Are you falling for this thing that says the Because you know better, right?" And then we trick our way out of it. Liz Gilbert, you are a treasure. Thank you. You are so sweet to say so. It's the truth as I know it. Thank you so much for being here. Everyone, I mean, I couldn't love this book I really do think it's required reading wanting to create anything in your life. So thank you so much for being here. You are so welcome. Let's hope that all human beings buy it. Read Big Magic. Woo hoo! That's so lovely. You're so, so, so sweet and I love this Thank you. Now Liz and I would love to hear from you. There was so much good stuff in this episode, thing for you as it relates to your creativity Now, as always, the best discussions happen so go there and leave a comment now. Did you like this video? I have to tell you, this is one of my all If you like it, consider subscribing to our this with all your friends. And if you want even more great resources plus some personal insights from me that I MarieForleo.com and sign up for email updates. Stay on your game and keep going for your gift that only you have. Thank you so much for watching and I'll