Our stuff tells little stories about our memories, our treasured relationships, I'm going to share 25 reasons that you As well as my decluttering tips and clear that clutter and create a home Welcome back everyone. And if you're new and inspiration for living a simpler, happier and if you haven't already, because I would love has a sponsor, which is Skillshare. We will chat of these reasons, used to be the case for me as even now, after more than a decade of minimalist back from time to time. Making me feel like I want around that I know I should probably just let go life, then hopefully these tips can be helpful for This is a big one and I can so relate to this do something perfectly, then I might as well just decluttering, because it makes you feel like, if not declutter at all. Maybe it's because you're people. Whatever it is that kind of stands between just because we cannot do something perfectly, steps. And that these small things that we can or that All or Nothing mindset stand in your way. do. Like Van Gogh said: great things are done You buy now and think later. You see a skirt you want to combine it with the rest of your about it later. And then you buy the skirt and end or overwhelmed by the loud music in the store or find everything, so you just think I'll just get out later. All stores use little manipulation Whether that is loud music or those long narrow try to be mindful of that. And don't think I'll chances are you won't. And you won't return it'll just become clutter. So just put the item and think about it for a while longer. Because up needing it. You're experiencing loss aversion. of losing something is twice as powerful as the prefer gains over losses. This can keep us from because we don't want to take that loss. But then you will also always gain something. When you that you never wear, even if you've spent money closet and a more satisfying wardrobe. When you're never use, you are gaining a more efficient, then try flipping the script around and focus more You feel lost and unsure about something else. my life, which happens, I noticed the little Like a matcha bowl or a plant. Especially when shake us up a little. Like we just bought over a month ago. And I still feel a little change. And when we get like that, our stuff Something that we know is always going to if you're feeling lost about your career or you might feel the urge to either go even though you know that you don't really use is coming from and just try to be mindful of it, You're afraid of uncovering hidden pain points. So that has been filled up with stuff over the last full of clothing. And you worry that if you start to come across some items that you might rather look at it. Decluttering can be a hugely emotional The key is just to start somewhere, and do little of that stuff in there, nothing is ever going then just look at two or three items in the three more tomorrow. You have a scarcity mindset. kind of have to do with fear. And that is because Like the whole better to have it and not need it, things around because of a scarcity mindset is a lot of things that you rarely or never use, them. For me, a scarcity mindset makes me worry the things I need later in my life. But living a things will be all right. Even if I get rid of Like a squirrel hoarding nuts for the winter. if you're on a weight loss journey, and because you know that by this time next be able to use them again. But really, try a chance that you will end up needing that item is there not maybe some alternative that you really end up happening, And even if they do, I have decluttered a lot in my life, but there has later in the future. You feel bad or ungrateful thing. I think we've all experienced it at one Or the item reminds us of someone maybe who's no spent as much money on it as you did. Whatever here. It is telling you that you want to let this of your life or your home any longer. And that is ever. You don't want to waste the money you also something that I think we've all experienced You have two options. Either actually use that would be to sell it. But keep in mind that you the item is worth. And the best gift that you in one way or another. And then try to learn from purchase in the future. Keeping it around is not You have insecurities. This one is very likely one of the reasons that you might be shopping kind of insecurity that you are trying to cover marketing tends to feed on our insecurities, to try and sell us their product. And I think the hey, I'm feeling insecure about this and that is here of course. And there is a huge difference in love it and it works well on your skin, and you are just buying every and any skincare product brands, because you're insecure about something, item that is going to make you feel better about don't have a home or you don't put them back. I that many people have clutter floating around. Or nail clippers or a notebook. If you have items space, or that always get lost, then try to assign And get in the habit of always putting them back a great tip for keeping your home clutter free You're experiencing decision fatigue. Decluttering making is hard and takes a lot of energy. But the with practice. So making the choice to declutter And now, I can just make that decision like that. work up that skill. And you will be a decluttering through the video, I want to take a quick moment really great supporter of the channel. So I'm Skillshare is where I learn things. Both for my learned to take better care of my houseplants. improved my camera skills, my writing skills, like learning new things from teachers who really will love their classes. I'm currently taking where she teaches how mindfulness and drawing are the past and I've always really enjoyed them. My in the sense that it kind of comes and goes. And this class is the perfect pick-me-up to get me fun with it. Whether you love being creative or you want to learn some valuable skills when it Skillshare is just a really valuable and helpful month for free, because the first thousand people a one month free trial. So you can try as many then you can cancel within your trial and you then I think you will really love it. Big thanks let's get back to the video. You have limiting little harder for you, because you live with other is tiny and it's hard to keep things organized. And all of these reasons could be true. And it it harder. But usually, I think that it doesn't beliefs are tricky because they hold us back from try and identify them if you have them and reframe constructive, by focusing more on the things that take work. You might have a bunch of stuff lying action on them. And this is a huge one for me, to these things. So maybe you have something that or bring to the donation store. Just take out your them. You'll feel a lot better. You don't want to that you cannot sell or donate or even recycle. So to throw them in the trash. It makes you feel or because it makes you feel like an ungrateful life. Maybe more than you think. So trying to give is great. But that should be your first option. to just throw it out and try to learn from it Seeing means wanting. Minimalism has really and appreciating their beauty or it doesn't always mean that I also have to good smelling things out there in the stores. But them ourselves. We can just appreciate them for a museum, and then moving on with your day. Because I would have a lot more stuff than I do now. You be careful with decluttering sentimental items. to keep them. If they're meaningful to you. So if you have sentimental items. But it is possible have a pen, that could remind you of a job the past. Or a dress that you often wore could wear it anymore, it's not useful to you anymore. if we are not careful. If that is you, then keeping only the really important ones around, You don't have a system for trouble clothing in piles on the floor and on the these are signs that you could benefit from floating around your home, then just get and go through them once a week for example. oftentimes the simpler the better, to really what the things you own say about you. Having hardly read any of them, it does say something or musical instruments, exercise equipment. And things, if we're not using them, because we like Is the real me really getting value from these want others to see me as. But the real me. And if and I can let go of them, because then I will only You don't really declutter, you just put things in kind of turning your whole house upside down, somewhere else, or collecting like items together, you actually want to let go of. This is really but really we're just moving things around. And have experience with not having things you really was a struggle for you growing up. So now that you're kind of trying to make up for that by go of things, because that's not what you are used might need them sometime later in the future. we have so much stuff, too much, that we are not really need that. And that is a luxury that then I think it could be a good idea to just be and what you want to do with it going forward. occasions. If you're not actually using items up, then you are most likely kind of hoarding them. stuff. And it's a waste. I used to have like used. I only use like one or two of the more cheap hardly ever use them. Only for special occasions. for so long, that they lost their scent. And I have fancy, nice, lovely, things, then use them spray them, eat or drink them. Just use then go out and get a new one. You're a sucker makes perfect sense. So if this is something or it's something that you're always using, and it of the sale and save yourself some money. But actually wanted or needed in the first place. move some things around and did some reorganizing in the rooms where we weren't actually using then it can really complicate your home and make have to go into your bedroom, to grab something then try figuring out a new place for it in the who's not interested in decluttering. To this I make it actually harder or frustrating even at Understand that different people have different own things and setting a good example. And then decluttered nightstand for example, is helping you and compromising. Let me know which of these any tips for overcoming them, please share that down below. Don't forget to check out Skillshare if you need a little more help when it comes decluttering ebook. I will leave the link to that comments, conversations down below. Thank you so you again next week. Bye bye. It's supposed to weeks that we've lived here. And you best believe