- Okay... I'm serious. No more (beep) cowboy. (door opens and shuts) - So, what are we gonna do now, boss? - Saddle up. Because we're about to do a (upbeat cowboy music) Let me guess. Government plates, government Surprised it took Senator who sweated this flunky last night. - The Senator has a - No. - Why not, Mr. Reacher? - Just &quot;Reacher.&quot; But I'm gonna break into Kleiners tonight and see if I can find - You can't just sit there the Fourth Amendment while you eat okra. - Yes, I can. You wanna see me do it again? - Fine. Reacher. Why won't you get in the car? - Because he didn't ask nicely. - Okay. Heart, what's the magic word? - Please get in the vehicle. (tense music) (upbeat western music) - My wife should be here soon. - I don't give a. - I had actually forgotten about that. But it doesn't support your argument. Swan could have been stealing the drugs and just panicked and gave them back. - Maybe he regretted letting Maybe something like and he couldn't pass out that - It's a lot of maybes. My gut tells me he's a good man. - Your gut's never been wrong before? - You took him out drinking. Isn't that the exact opposite - Good thing I did. Whoever killed the Morrisons broke into my house, carved Who knows what they would've - They came to your house? - I'm fun. Just see what Jasper has for us. - It's okay. I have my eye on her. - (beep) It's after five. 10,000 combinations if No point in trying. - Good. Hate guessing passwords. - Why don't you come back tomorrow? So, what do we do now? - I need to right a wrong that took place at this very spot about a week and a half ago. - Slice of peach. Best in Georgia. - Thank you. - You're gonna eat that? It's got sugar and fat, you know? - Shut up, eat your damn pie. - And if he keeps his who he's working with and gets away with it. - Barbara Gonelsman. She's 79, so be nice. - Why wouldn't I be nice? - So, worth the wait? - I've had better. (laughs) - Come with me. - No. - Excuse me? Not until you let these zip ties come off. We both know I didn't kill anybody and they're uncomfortable. - Get the box cutter. - It's okay. I got it. (strains and exhales) You guys recycle? Well that's stupid. And if you really think - (beep) you. - I like it when you curse. You should do that more often. - Double (beep) you twice. - A client you represented and disorderly conduct charge? His file. Get it. - I don't know what game but get outta my office. - No. Who the hell do you think you are? - A pissed-off drifter - Oh, you wanna get - Pull up job link's file now. - I will ruin your life - I'll end your life with one phone. You know it's hard to but you're kind of jacked, Finlay. - Really? - (beep). - He's a regular here. - He's not gonna to tell you anything. Bob is a friend and he don't need anyone asking about his business. Find yourself another bar. - Boxer? South Baja? - Another thing about boxing... Too many rules. (grunts) Lemme shine. - Wait... I got this. If I'm gonna die, I want a - What is he doing here? - He told me to keep an eye Look, there he is. - Crime scene is worse than And I saw things in Boston. - Was he nailed to a wall? - How did you know that? Hey! (tense music) - (sighs heavily) Yeah. - Are we gonna die? - [Reacher] Let's find out. - Okay then, well... I'm not about to waste Maybe your court appointed - I don't need a lawyer. - He speaks. (panting) - You do not mess with - You do not mess with When he wants to. - And why don't you need a lawyer? - Because I didn't kill anybody. At least not recently and not in this town. I know you're scared, but I'm- - Scared? - It's natural. When someone has an - You know, I was recruited by the FBI and Central Intelligence? Scored a 99th percentile in IQ, but only an 80% on the psych eval. You wanna know why you - Interpersonal skills? - I lack the ability to - We're still piecing it together, When this bird's cooked, we'll reach out. - You have my word. We won't let this guy slip AM and everyone working to the fullest extent of the law. - Unless we kill 'em all first. - Where'd you get all that cash? - From our friends in the trunk. Apparently people get - These guys were working You just paid for our room - Not my problem. (elevator dings) - Kids playing a Nintendo Switch. If we knew who had a gamer tag, we could track the IP address to her device and that'll - But how did we find our gamer tag? - We go back to Marlow's house. It might be on another - I ever tell you you're smart, Neagley? - Not nearly enough. - How come? - 'Cause it went so well the last time. No, you're gonna go see See what you can find out - An assignment? I thought I was not by or lifestyle choice of cop anymore. - It shows you how Don't break the law and in another holding cell. - No. - Being an honest cop isn't Oh wait, you can't. Well, a smart move would But you haven't done that yet. Maybe you don't want to draw attention firing outside a crowded bar. Or maybe you have orders so we can find out how much I know. (beep) I wanted to question him. Whatever it is, it means that when I make my move, And you guys know what Cato - He who hesitates- (indistinct shouting, grunting) - Keep my seat warm, would you? (upbeat country music) You looking for a dance partner? 'Cause the last person was a woman down in Panama when I was stationed at Fort Sherman and she wanted to dance Do you wanna dance the (missile fires) Wait for it. (loud explosion) I guess Little Wing works. - Looks like they plan on coming back. - I'm really gonna need a gun. (line rings) Yeah, before you ask if it's done, it is. Just not in the way you hoped for. - You're causing a very complex - $65 million worth, Langston? Assume that's who I'm talking to. Head of security? Head of this whole thing? - Maybe we've been approaching Mr. Reacher. - Just &quot;Reacher.&quot; - Oh Graham, you idiot. - You're about to get your (beep) kicked. - No... I'm just gonna break the (laughter) - There's four of us here. - One of you's gotta - Ooh! (grunting) I don't know where the hospital is. - Okay, Reacher, why don't we make a deal? I have the means to give you What is it that you want? (tense music) - I want to throw you out of a helicopter. (upbeat music)