This is one of the most perilous roads It's hell to drive on in summer, Summer has so much dust, you can't see the other vehicles The dust causes so many accidents A dirt road linking Neryungri to Yakutsk, Constructed under Stalin, it's so cold here, with -65 Celsius so thousands of tons causing appalling vibrations, and ruins even the biggest juggernauts. We have to pay taxes to maintain the road, With the rains, the road dissolves a thin, watery mud all the way up to their doors. With no hope of rescue for days at a time, Why are you armed? The local bandits who do as they please, Some have made a good living from the road The bear was coming at me on all fours, He was fast, like flying. I realized straight away Under the watchful eye of Lenin, the large Russian mining town of Neryungri The last few rays of sunshine Neryungri is at the end of the world, the last stop Beyond there is just A much-prized commodity is being loaded up Millions of liters of beer. Up here, it's more popular than vodka. Igor, age 42, an Afghanistan war veteran, is making sure He's embarking on one and his merchandise is not even insured. Do many bottles get broken? You bet they do, [Russian spoken audio] There, I've loaded 18 tons of beer, and I have 72 hours without breaking any Hi there, here is to good luck.. Okay, kid, don't let me down, Good. Yakutsk, here we come. In his old second-hand Japanese truck, Dear Lord, make it all okay. Igor has 1,200 kilometers through the vastness It's 35 degrees and Igor The scariest thing is the dust, You can't see the other vehicles, [Russian spoken audio] The dust causes so many accidents It's hell for the drivers A combination of exhaust fumes and it's a fatal cocktail. The dead trees A few hours into his journey, and Igor is looking anxiously at the skies Dust and rain are his obsession. Whenever it rains, the ground liquefies, When the rains fall on the M56, resulting in furrows There's no escape, and in some places taking the road and trucks with it. The only way to get through A drunken driver stuck fast in the mud, forcing a tailback of hundreds of trucks This is truly the road of hell, Life, because all the supplies and hell, where we could tip over, Igor is forced to slow down The road is a public scandal in Russia. Gigantic works were recently begun, 1 billion euro construction sites To achieve that, a 1,000-kilometer stretch to avoid the devastating spring floods. Hundreds of workers They're known the seasonal road members. How long have you been working here? We're hired by the day, not longer. Are you from here, this region? No, we're from up north, What do you do up in the north? We're shepherds, reindeer breeders. The workers are left to their own devices They hunt any animal [Russian spoken audio] Everyone here has a rifle In this case, a Saiga, a civilian version When there's no game to shoot, [Russian spoken audio] The construction crews take part to ask the gods for protection, The thousands of cubic meters of stone have been poorly broken down, and as a result, Igor will change The road is littered with burst tires. The usually overladen trucks that could tip over any time. Punctures are commonplace, so the unwritten rule Igor stops, Don't worry about it, throw it away. Abandoned tires are just dumped, It's not just the tires that suffer, the trucks too pay a heavy toll Further on, one unlucky driver His vehicle's chassis was torn apart, and his container, It means I'd have worked because I'll need to repay It's all my earnings, All the bosses do it. Igor knows all about the problems He has his truck regularly inspected that have sprung up along the way. The mechanic does find a glitch. Here, look at these two cracks here. [Russian spoken audio] Igor asks for a complete inspection You found some cracks? You see, This trailer is ripped up Everything's loose, It's all coming apart. The garage also has pumps, and for good reason. The price of fuel Cheaper fuel is actually available Hidden from prying eyes, are selling their quotas of petrol My state salary as a trucker is miserable, that's why I'm doing this. [Russian spoken audio] You're siphoning off your own petrol Yes, it's a black market but if you film me, It's only to make my life His stop at the garage To make it up, he'll drive all night. However, he's superstitious, and there are plenty of horror stories The remains of Gulags Stalin sacrificed millions of prisoners Their ghosts terrify the drivers. When you're tired, You could even think One time, At night, Igor's main concern So there's no stopping Igor has now been behind the wheel To stop himself from falling asleep, However, in the end, it's the shuddering Exhausted, he gives up and pulls over. Quite by chance, for the victims buried near the site Woken by a passing truck, he notices the tombs He settles in later who have pitched camp, [Russian spoken audio] I've heard about the ghost who tries to flag down passing vehicles. Yes, he was on this road It's -45 and out he gets underneath He's tightened it up again When wanting to get out he realized his head was stuck So he stayed like that and all the passing vehicles Finally, one day, by then the poor guy The truckers sleep next to a quarry. The region is full of them, The M56 goes through Aldan, Mining companies rip open the ground Just six months ago, Siberia's Far East The obligatory stop for all the truckers Originally from Azerbaijan, and has made a fortune. Here people like to show off their wealth. See, first, he'll take a sniff, Do you go hunting, too? No, not me, I'm too scared. Show us your tongue. Rasim is more than just about bears. He has a mouth full of gold teeth I build apartment blocks. It's been a long time Yes, that five-story building is mine. In the depths of Siberia, and a restaurant he's about to open. He's invested about 1.5 million euros, Soon there'll be a uranium mine near here. There'll be lots of people arriving, lots of workers, twice as many people altogether. [Russian spoken audio] Will you make a profit Well, there's no rush. However, gold doesn't bring everyone Close by, the wives of the road workers often live in reduced circumstances. Alexei, open the door. I'm expecting a baby, and asked again for an apartment. I never received an answer, I can't live out in the open. Here, at least Life in Siberia is harsh The previous winter temperatures This year's crop was very poor. Usually, the potatoes are much larger, but this time, The authorities do nothing to help? No, we live in a small town, but I'd rather not get into that, Dust. Dust everywhere. After covering 1,200 kilometers a very tired Igor Yes, we're here, let's unload. Mission accomplished, but the bottles still haven't reached There's no time to lose, in the opposite direction To keep himself awake, Here's my secret recipe. When I'm sleepy, Nothing beats it for keeping you awake. The cargo of beer continues its journey on a road even worse than the M56. It's the Kolyma Highway Alexei Shabanov runs a freight company. He's hurtling down the slippery highway because he wants to ensure to one of his drivers before he leaves The road is a 400 kilometer long ice rink. The marshes are extremely dangerous, Why? It's quicksand. Alexei is wary about crossing a place that is often fatal. The local radio is playing a hit song On the way out of the village, The van was like this, The truck stopped to help. He tried to tow me out, That's because it was sliding, See, it's clay, and it's full of water. It's like liquid now, Thanks to our famous road crews, but there is no road. They don't maintain the road? All they do is put clay on top of clay. If it rains? Yes, if it rains, it's murder. Each hour I'm stuck will cost me money, Come on, let's get some of these branches. Most truckers in Siberia They are responsible for their cargo, This will give me more grip. The branches will stop the wheels Let me start up. [Russian spoken audio] No, it's still too slippery, They'll have to wait for a truck. How long will that take? We're the victims of our own roads. Okay, bye, guys. The region is not safe. Other drivers have been attacked, I've got a gun. What for? If there are problems. Do you often have problems? Sure, it happens. The locals here do what they like. They're bandits. They sometimes block the road. Really? Yes, sometimes, So you've had problems yourself? Alexei is meant to be taking a ferry There's no indication out in the middle of nowhere. After a three-hour wait, Okay, let's go. A gypsy family from Moscow to the Great North, just to sell coats. Apparently, business is good. The river looks peaceful enough, but the currents are strong to cross the two kilometers When it's winter, and the vehicles can just drive over it. On board, the gypsies Come on, No, I can't, my bosses check up on me. Go on, take a coat. All right, pay him, then. Thirteen hundred? Come on, let me save some money for beer, I haven't had any for a whole day, All right, if you've got the right change. We're from Tambov, in the Moscow area. It's 400 kilometers from Moscow. We sell clothes. Would you like to buy a nice suede jacket? The next morning, Alexei Shabanov He's the only driver a village in a mountainous area The 300-kilometer journey will be in mud, That's a very tough route, Only a truck like the Russian Zil, with its six wheel drive The road was abandoned after perestroika. Barely 20 years ago, prisoners from the Gulags It's an era that Nikolai still misses. This is the bridge over the Ula, They worked under armed guard. They built the road and the bridges. Let me tell you this, this road would have reached Nikolai has fond memories of the road Back then, or a truck jolted because of a pothole, the whole construction crew responsible So at the time, What did they use in those days, The prisoners built it and with sledgehammers and wheelbarrows. During the winter they'd keep warm and even those they built themselves. Many of them died. An estimated 200,000 prisoners in this area Nikolai knows fully well When it rains or when the thaw comes, the floods mean You have to be very careful. Once a driver drowned and he wanted to cross over. The torrent of water That stone is in memory when he drowned in quicksand The only living soul in these parts, who looks after the road crew's cabin. Hello, Boris. You're all alone? Yes, most have left now. How's the wretched Topolinoye? Any bears around? When's the last time The day before yesterday, I went out but it was late, the dogs barked and it left. Nicolai, have you ever seen Yes, very close. The bear was creeping towards me, and he was flying, he was going so fast. I knew straight away it would attack me. I hit it with my fist but it caught me Then it ripped some skin off my face It bit my hand and dislocated my shoulder. My testicles were hanging off by a thread, I still don't know I had to walk eight kilometers who drove me to the hospital. Was it a large bear? No, medium sized. Luckily, otherwise Nikolai is not just a truck driver. For the last ten years, He knows animals well, but the reason was due to his own near-fatal oversight. You must never be too far Never more than one or two meters. You must never put your rifle down to go and do something elsewhere. Always take it with you. Because if you're surprised by a bear, you can forget Hunted day and night, In Nicholai's opinion, It's an open secret who the poachers are, On the other hand, you have to be wary The best time's when they've been drinking That's when I arrest them. Otherwise, when they're sober, The only way to confiscate their weapons Then, you can arrest them Yes. After patrolling the forest for two hours, It's the last ascent, but he still has the snow on the Verkhoyansk mount ahead of him. When it's windy, the snow freezes, This is the Molchan pass, and in winter, the wind is so strong, A lot of the bends here are very dangerous At the summit, there's a strange altar All travelers stop to leave an offering Well, if you don't leave something, and all the roads will become sheet ice. Before, once the temperature reached -60, Now, though, we can. However, at our own risk, the metal parts on a truck can explode, Nicolai arrives in Topolinoye, It's September, and the temperature with a freezing wind, In a few weeks' time, the thermometer will drop The village was built during Stalin's day, to force the local Eveny people, Nowadays, to tend to their herds of reindeer. Whenever in Topolinoye, Nicolai sleeps and eats This is it, here's my hotel. Garnier, hi. Here's your beer. Hey, how are you, kid? It's been a long time To celebrate Nicola's arrival, Garnier's wife has prepared and as is the custom, In these parts, people are reserved, but as tough as the country itself. Before Nikolai goes his friend, Garnier, The Eveny have an Aladdin's cave, Careful when you head back, In a hollow the Evenies have stored reindeer meat. The mountain is a giant refrigerator in the summer, as in winter. There are hundreds of carcasses, a rich cache that guarantees It costs four euros a kilo. The present is a virile, a reindeer penis, which, when cooked, It's the day while the roads are still clear, and before the winter snows Several families are leaving to meet up as generations of nomads We're ready to go, Some of the Evenies This is for the Evenies, and the geologists up north They're taking their furs to keep warm, Why are you taking all these weapons? There are no roads here, is this ancient Russian half-truck, A versatile all terrain vehicle, The journey barely 100 kilometers to the north, The Eveny, take an unmarked route, the small expedition Suddenly there is a breakdown, A breakdown in these conditions If they get stuck it means pitching camp and dealing with bears. [Russian spoken audio] What's happening, then? Nothing serious, Will it take long to repair? Well, less than an hour. It will soon be dark. The Eveny decide to travel The convoy in case there's another breakdown. It's a new experience How old are you? A're you heading north too? Of course. Before heading off again, as they toast freedom and nature. [Russian spoken audio] Russian vodka. Thank you, vodka. You understand? [Russian spoken audio] Nothing's lost. Often drunk and heavily armed, as it's shooting first We're not afraid, we can kill bears, [Russian spoken audio] On the overcrowded roof, men, women, and children, and a wind so cold it burns the skin. Move your legs, I can't see anything. Ahead of them is three months and temperatures It was their ancestors way of life, that gives them the strength