Hi, my name is Tawn Le, and I quit my corporate gap year, aka a mid career break. And it was the best decision that I've made. And during that time I actually, my father So for me it was the best decision I've ever anytime soon. And if you want to hear the long-winded story podcast that I did with Johnel Clemente on There's a lot of details that are in there So I'll link that below in the description So I hope you enjoy this video. I hope you find inspiration. Hey everyone. So I'm Tawn and I left my corporate job back It is now July 2019, a year later. And I just wanted to talk a little bit more I'm so glad that I took it, because my life I'm actually not going back to corporate anytime So I worked for Amazon for about four and miserable. And I wanted to leave so bad, but I couldn't. And the pay was great, and so I didn't. And I just kind of stayed there. But the thing that made me think of the gap traveled a lot more. The people that I worked with were predominantly And it was always so interesting for me to to how they lived life. And it was so awesome because the Europeans Let me tell you that. Us Americans, we're always on the go, go, But there is something that I really learned rethink how I wanted to approach life. And one was that I never took a gap year. I felt like almost everyone that I worked university or even prior to it. So that was something that intrigued me and But actually going back to work at the time, that was like, &quot;If you quit now while you're level in that next job. So figure out what it is that you like.&quot; And so with that mentality, I really started made it so awesome. And then from there I also knew I wanted to So that was kind of all molding together, to prepare for it. But meanwhile, when I was at work, I had had had really good people that I worked with, in terms of like ... And here's what Amazon, responsibility and it was for me to take it to build it, but within their parameters. But anyways, I really enjoyed the people that building this team that I felt, I guess, like And it was fun being there. When things got tough, we could talk to each And so those were the things that I found And that's something that I still hold onto, future of it I wanted to take this gap year and I knew here. This is my apartment here in Queens, New York So I wanted a home base. And I knew for me personally, having a home And so I saved up to be able to live here And then I also saved up to travel and just to do random things for a year to see if I And for me, when I first quit, I went backpacking to South Africa. And it was great, but it also made me realize That is not my life, I just can't do it. And that's me personally. And so starting in the early 2019, which was It was January. So that was my last trip and then the end passed away. And I was just happy that I was there to be the decision that I made to take this adult Because I felt that had I not taken it, some And the lesson for me was more of just follow you're a little bit scared, because it has and my career and things that I now prioritize, so to speak. Again, the adult gap year has been the best I would encourage people to do it and I would we don't take that time often. And I was in a position that I could do it, just ask ourselves, &quot;Is this what I really Or is this what I was told that I really wanted?&quot; And this time has given me that opportunity and asked of me versus how do I actually feel Where do I stand on it? And so this adult gap year has given me that questions and dive into what is a priority And so this adult gap year has been fucking If you also want to read an article as to blog on Diary of an Old Millennial, and I'll So I hope that was helpful and to letting of how I approached it. So if you all have any questions, please comment You can also check out more information on