Hi! I'm Nate Savage and in this lesson I'm that you must know if you're a guitarist. learned most of your open chords and feels left behind, then this lesson is going to The five strumming patterns in this lesson you learn the first one, the second one builds the second one and so on. Now you're likely strumming patterns in this lesson but I would going to be giving you some tips that are Throughout this lesson, I'm going to be keeping the chords really simple. I'm only can focus all of your attention on your strumming learning these patterns that I'm going to your strumming hand even more, you don't mute the strings like that and focus on the All of the strumming patterns in this lesson don't know how to count eighth notes, I'm When you hear a song, most songs are in 4/4 right? Those would be quarter notes usually. stick an 'and' in between each number, 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 notes and the idea is to space out the counting, with these strumming patterns. are going to be eighth note-based strumming displayed at the bottom of the screen to help Let's get into this first strumming pattern very important. It's an all downstroke tell that it's an all downstroke pattern on each beat, each 1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and. you but don't discount it. It's very important I was in a studio session playing some acoustic patterns lined up in my mind and the producer downstroke strumming pattern." I did it the stuff I had planned. It may seem easy that's really going to help you develop a jam track and work on using an all downstroke strumming pattern using eighth notes. Really focus on your timing and work on keeping Another thing that you can work on with this such a simple strumming pattern, it's easy little bit louder and getting really loud, we tend to drag a little bit and when we get great strumming pattern to work on that too. Remember, don't just lock your wrist and strum from your elbow either. Relax, get some wrist motion stuck to your finger and you're just trying with this strumming pattern to help you develop Using a strumming pattern like this to warm and your mind focused on your timing is awesome. the exact same rhythm as strumming pattern you're going to be using down and upstrokes to be using upstrokes on every other strum the 'ands' you're going to see little this works out for the counting, for the downstrokes and the upstrokes, the numbers are going to be down strokes, so 1, 2, 3, and will all be upstrokes. This is an incredibly basis for all of the other strumming patterns Now let me just tell you, a lot of newer guitar the strings when they do an upstroke strum a downstroke, I generally hit all six strings my upstroke, I generally only hit like the lot easier to get that upstroke to the strings So try this pattern, relax, don't lock your as even as possible. So work on this pattern. Get it down. Make sure to practice it with a metronome or a jam track it down and it's sounding good with a metronome, want to. In this case, I'm going to just accent the downstrokes on two and four. And being able to throw accents in like that is really useful because no matter what song you're playing, if it's an eighth note base strumming pattern, you can put the accents Strumming pattern #3 is very similar to strumming pattern #2 but we're going to introduce A muted strum gives you a more percussive we're kind of copying the sound of a drum , 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, on 2 and 4 they're hitting going to be emulating. Before we get into how to do a muted strum real quick. What you're muted strum, which you're going to be doing off a pressure on the string with your left or right before, you're going to come down as your pick passes through the strings, so. this with is a straight down, up, down, up, pattern but after the 1 and, on the 2 you're then we're going to do another upstroke. pattern that just repeats over and over again, And if you look in the graphic for this strumming to do a muted strum by the little X that's So slow this one way down if you have to. guitar with that muted strum. This strumming that. It's just a really cool sound and can stick them in anywhere in any strumming Okay in strumming pattern #4 we're going to start we've been digging in to the strings on to start leaving some of them out. You may been making use of a very important technique back at strumming pattern 2. You had strict eighth note. So you had a constant strumming going to continue with that up and down motion leave some of the eighth notes out. Stay with more sense once you learn the strumming pattern. see it's grayed out. There's nothing there. note strumming pattern you will play 1 and, time there's nothing there. There's no we're still going to come back up but we're On beat 2, we're going to play down, up. 1 and 2 and. You're going to keep that up not digging into the strings. You're going 4, so 3 and 4 and. strumming patterns like this when you're way you can keep track of where you are. And just so you can keep track of where you are a metronome real quick. So work on this. Relax, stay loose, and make sure you have a constant motion with your like this. Also remember that your upstrokes You can just hit the top four strings or so. complex than the other strumming patterns that we were talking about. When I hear this calling this the ballad strumming pattern. Notice that the strum on beat 3 is grayed feel because this time we're leaving out So basically we're just leaving out into the strings but we're still making is just straight eighth notes. 1 and 2 and arm going and leave out that downstroke that occurs on beat 3. As a newer guitar player, you're probably on to the pick tight enough to where it doesn't to hold on to it loosely enough where you feel going. under your belt and it may take you a while the cool part about it is once you can play with the Constant Strumming Technique and everything, you're going to be a lot closer to being able to pick out the strumming patterns own cool strumming patterns. And if you want can just put accents in there. You could do out other notes with the Constant Strumming Technique. Always play along with a metronome or better yet, play along with a jam track. working on to a real musical setting. a brand new guitar lesson series that you I'll see you there.