Imagine having to store 50 billion pictures That's close to 95 million videos per day. way we can store even a fraction of this on a bother talking about what those images are. of its users uploading videos and photos Now... you are probably thinking, oh well Well, Instagram looked at their metrics servers will crash if they didn't find In this video, we are going to see improvement to the process of storing videos that If you want more stories like this, make sure release a 2 times a week newsletter showing you Let's get started. Now, when you have 2 billion that's like a quarter of the entire earth.) servers are keeping up with the constant traffic. After doing some projections within 12 They wouldn't be able to have enough computing Do I have to explain why this is bad... Now the way they have their servers setup centres across the entire world that helps load It's complicated but for this high level I would highly recommend you read it. Instagram wanted to instead optimize the servers Imagine opening up another data center... Ok... yeah let's maybe save some cash here. computing power when a user uploaded a video... they The Function of different video apps to help accessibility. will compress the files into multiple different watching from a bad internet connection or you are want to load a 12K video in the thumbnail. depending on what view you are looking at. Whenever someone uploads a video on Instagram, the One was the H264 Codec and So just because developers are weird and tested to see how it would perform. With roughly 4 million videos per hour they Yikes... Video Types we are dealing with 2 video codecs. One I know talking about video compression might Let's look at our boy H.264. We LOVE h.264. most part are encoded with H.264. the first release being released in 2003. the people at a party how video compression works, However, the sparknotes version is that it the next frame and the last frame and removes removes any information that is unnecessary For a detailed look, go to Leo's channel ...but 20 years of development comes with a massive amount of baggage. we love you and we will comfort you. put research into making a new video The Alliance for Open Media (which was Google, Microsoft and Netflix) released This is incredible as you can get 30% The best part is that it's open source However, with the way technology is, it's really My grandma is still asking me So long story short, they have 2 types 1 H.264 which is used in every This was spending 80% of the resources available. devices. They wanted to start generating Ok... you didn't fall asleep did you? Ok, 80% of resources... that's a lot So let's look at the minimum functionality btw... I am not being a hater). of minimum functionality encodings. 2 Progressive encodings. encodings is Instagrams most used format watching a video and your internet gets wonky That technique of streaming is called adaptive bit The other one isn't used nearly as often but It's always the old tech that When we test uploading a 23 they found that it took 86 seconds. Yikes. The programmers noticed that were very similar. So a lightbulb went off. encodings with the progressive encodings advanced bit rate capable file structure. if all of the settings are the same on the repackage it so the other encoding can get a head That way, they both don't have Almost like instead of having them race the baton. I think that analogy was clever. So once they ran their initial tests.... done that wrong... nope. 0.36 seconds. Before they would upload a file and at the same have ever rendered a video on your computer, poor server was chugging this along for so long. out the older version and then repackage most encoding so it didn't have to render all the way... encoding I mentioned at the beginning don't make me talk about video encoding again... when everything you work on is supposed to scale Oh speaking of scaling to billions, A lot of people want to talk crap about for not fixing a minor bug fast, but the go through to have your code in a production They needed to test if this optimization encodings, be a net positive for users. Did you not listen to what To test to see if this would work, they Both were routed to a test pool or a control it would identify if the encodings Do you now believe me when I say nothing From this test they proved that they were original ABR encodings but the extreme higher up for it. So over 94 percent of computing power was saved but what can we take away from this. really stick out with this. innovating things that we think are "good enough" GB in quicktime format but in H264, it was around need improvements... that's a 97% compression can get better will help us innovate for many 1 The fact that they were able to reduce simple trick" is not a sign of bad engineering. can happen. The classic "if it aint broke, don't this to insinuate that there are more important new feature over creating an optimization that Of course this term is affiliate with "technical you will eventually HAVE to fix later. this issue that a lot of us don't understand. to the community whether that's meetups, talks the backbones to huge mega companies. takes to make an article like this are Outro video. Let me know what company you would like me you haven't already seen it, I go deep into how Make sure you like comment and