All right. We're loaded up For the 275,000 drivers packages a day around the is a lot of work. I've been tired, exhausted, The expectation is just go, cost. But a lot has changed since about unrealistic bottles, dog bites and software. We're checked in. We're Got our little key fob. For some drivers, it's Now that 1,000+ electric roads. Heated steering wheel is This little guy is cool. It's like the 360 view. So far, so good. We talked to drivers of the Boston to see firsthand all maximizing safety and driver experience. One feature I really like is goes all the way around the In 2019, Jeff Bezos 100,000 vans from vehicle maker Rivian. It's one step toward of net-zero carbon Amazon started delivering Now it says they're in Baltimore, Chicago, Las York. This windshield is Some drivers voiced early Amazon says at up to 150 Now, Amazon's added stations at delivery hubs. So this one's charging right But here's the craziest Are you ready? Look at all Rivian has faced some recent 2022 production amid supply issues. Its stock fell so a $3.9 billion loss on its year. And some drivers are inconvenience and wait time to happen at official a Rivian mobile service I was waiting for this Rivian van. Still, Amazon says it on the road by 2030, from Bezos' original pledge by 2024. For now, most drivers are Amazon-branded gas-powered Transits, Mercedes ProMasters. Amazon wouldn't which of its 3,500 delivery get Rivian vans first. Amazon's been using these deliver its packages since back its reliance on UPS Postal Service. Here's how The DSP is the employer of the liabilities of the road benefits and overtime pay. And they lease the custom Amazon covers the fuel and for electric vehicles and on things like insurance, scanners known as rabbits. In the four years since it says DSP owners have revenue and now operate in Saudi Arabia, India, Europe. It's very easy to get in and different handles to hold Julieta Dennis launched her in Baltimore in 2019. She employs 75 drivers and from Amazon. Fifteen of Because they're so new and a really know what to expect been hesitant. But the moment they get in experience, that's the van The Rivian vans are small require a special license provides its own training get behind the wheel. So this is where all the We have two shelves on both space. And then the lights to help us see the packages especially at nighttime. Brandi Monroe has been Baltimore DSP for two She says the new vans make The van has a 360 view of Also on the inside, it has right on the tablet. And then there's AC seats So that's great. Former driver B.J. Natividad, who goes by non-electric van could get I remember one time I had 23 oversize packages. I had to be able to figure there within the 15 minutes When designing the vans, drivers about what needed Now they're filled with boosted productivity. In the back here the shelves and there's still plenty of The Rivian vans have at than the Sprinter and up to the Transit vans Natividad left in July. More space to deliveries while on route The bulkhead is automatic. As soon as the vehicle is automatically opens. So that helps to get like in and out of the van. Also, when you leave the feet, it automatically We did a lot of deliveries woman, I want to make sure comfortable for me and that pedals, I can see over the Mai Le's team at Amazon center console and its When we start to notice that means that we can tell destination. The map begins find where's your delivery where parking could be. The new vans have keyless when the driver is 15 feet driver approaches. Above all else, Amazon says the delivery job safer. A ProPublica report found were involved in more than to 2019, at least ten of Now Amazon's put cameras Rivian vans, which enable technology that veers out of the lane. The steering wheel just kind close to something, the has, the 360 bird's eye everything around the van. There's just so many help cut back on some of It's crazy. All the alarms like, look, and it just let me know. There's an automatic parking and driver-facing cameras Now, Amazon can issue driving practices as they Camera, camera. Netradyne camera, which has Beryl Tomay helps run the delivery for Amazon. The in-vehicle safety for poor safety behaviors seatbelts not being signs, traffic lights. We've seen over the past 95% in these events when real-time. But the really we've seen have been almost accidents. DSP owners like Dennis get drivers exhibit patterns of You know, something with a something flags, then our and make sure that that's and figured out, like what Some drivers told us the surveillance is unsettling. Dennis says it's not an No one's complained to you None of your drivers? Never. Never. There's no sound ever being There's no camera recording and there's a privacy mode. Amazon says privacy mode camera switches off both if the vehicle is seconds, and that there's to anyone. One of the things everyone that there would be a cargo area. There's nothing in there. Another concern drivers told Customers out there, please know a package is coming. Okay? Please keep them Don't leave them just One Amazon driver in October, allegedly after a Now Amazon is working to both customers and drivers. One of the other things that going to be launching is that they can actually then hey, this place has a pet other drivers that come to oh, there's a pet here. Other Amazon drivers have Amazon says the keyless prevent theft. The EDV logic will allow the the key for a short period driver out of harm's way the vehicle once beyond a Providing drivers with more detailed routes could People are running through yellow lights. Everybody I seatbelt behind their backs just to buckle your seatbelt every time was behind schedule. Drivers in 2021 told us that leaving their seatbelt off was often because they were deliveries after losing routing software made a recognizing a closed road Blocked. Can't get in. Can't get in. Gate. Gate. Turn left to enter a Amazon listened. It's been adding a huge maps using information from and machine learning models feedback and other sources, collection system called In a few thousand vans now, real-time data from a device during a driver's Due to Fleet Edge, we've street signs to Amazon's The accuracy of GPS over two-and-a-half times navigation safety by sooner. Tomay says by the end of new stop signs, 180,000 We also added points of shops and restrooms so take a break within 5 95% of cases in metro There's nothing more clutch first stop, finding one of Let's go. In 2021, Amazon had to claims that drivers were result of demanding And then as soon as I opened looking around, I see a I'm like, oh, I'm not Natividad started delivering pandemic dried up his gigs You're getting paid to lot of steps in. You know, of delivering for Amazon, I Natividad's shifts with same route, with at least Once during last holiday packages and 200 stops in a Towards the end of my day, me to help out to make sure hours. In Baltimore, Dennis says drivers deliver 350 to 450 DSP's 40 routes. And Amazon has a lot of 148,000 a day, up to And then we look at the complexity of the locations and any other and traffic from past together that we think is Another big challenge, Tomay vastly different needs of Given that we're in over 20 geography looks different, vehicles or vans anymore. We have rickshaws in India. We have walkers in In Las Vegas, Amazon held a DSP owners and drivers, spoke for 20 minutes about improve its routing within small, dense where he says the order of As soon as I was done list, I got this like slow I'm like, okay, everyone Natividad hopes Amazon will feedback as it continues to I think they should do that with all the DSP drivers, and not the same That way different feedback And like seriously listen to ones out there seeing and through. Natividad didn't get to try in the new vans before he July. But he's excited that following in Amazon's coming by 2028. The Postal Service intends 100,000 vehicles over the 66,000 units will be More important than new vans stability that comes with government, instead of a contract with Amazon that Working as an Amazon DSP really no long-term effects benefits. I mean, you get compared to the post office is a career. They have union, benefits and pay increases Pay for Amazon drivers is up individual DSP, although audits DSP rates to make Natividad made$18.50 an hour Indeed.com puts average $19 an hour, 16% higher While tipping isn't worked gig workers delivering for did hold a temporary gave drivers an extra $5 if &quot;Alexa, thank my driver.&quot; represent big improvements sustainability, Amazon is gas-powered delivery vans I just found a Ram and a Amazon is also diversifying Rivian, with thousands of vans from Stellantis and from Daimler. But for now, Amazon keep its current of thousands more of its In your dream scenario, every day? I would. I mean, you can't. You can't beat this. Like you really can't beat