Just a couple of years ago, it seemed Analysts, tech visionaries and even Tyson predicted that space mining was The first trillionaire they will ever natural resources on asteroids. In a 2017 note to investors, a Goldman be more realistic than perceived. A single asteroid the size of a to $50 billion worth of platinum.&quot; Space mining companies like Planetary backed by the likes of Google's Larry take advantage of the predicted payoff. After all, the holy grail of asteroids worth of $10,000 quadrillion. But fast forward to 2022, and both Industries have been acquired by space mining. And humanity has yet to asteroid. But that hasn't stopped a new AstroForge's mission, obviously, is to asteroid, mine it for its rare earth to be sold. TransAstra was founded with the mission harnessing the resources of space, for the betterment of humanity. There's enough material in the trillion people. So far, the closest we've gotten to missions. In October 2020, NASA asteroid Bennu as part of its The sample is not due to return until were surprised to learn that Bennu's In December of 2020, Japan's Aerospace sample of an asteroid known as Ryugu, To collect the sample, the agency fired up the flying material. Like Bennu, scientists found that Ryugu Although these recent advancements by useful information on the composition Space mining has yet to become a So what's taking so long? For one, space mining is a long-term necessarily have the patience to If we had to develop a full-scale need a few hundred million dollars to It would be difficult to convince the right thing to do. Take NASA's OSIRIS-REx mission, for years to complete and cost over $1 asteroid material. And Planetary investment, the closest the company launching a satellite to prospect In fact, the mining of celestial objects corporate greed as seen in this clip Up.' This comet hurtling towards us from deep least $32 trillion of these critical I'm sorry, is that why you aborted this Is because you're trying to mine the Others say mining precious metals to sense. If you look at platinum, the production more, and the price per ounce of So it means that the earth mining is When analyst made their predictions, of the precious metals and materials in the economies of the industries. In today's economics and in the few years, it makes no sense to go And the reason is the cost of getting that it vastly outstrips the value of asteroids. When we think of space mining, precious But in fact asteroids can contain other be even more valuable. There is mining materials in space for to Earth, the return to Earth ideas. They have to compete against materials. That would be very but it's most likely in the far future. But in the near term is mining The number one item is water. There are certain types of asteroids We can process those minerals to Our best use of the water is actually rocket propellant. And then with rocket more readily. We don't have to launch Gabor Szecsi agrees that when it comes beyond precious metals. In short term, we should focus on helium Helium because it's not readily has a potential use in space. An attorney by trade, Szecsi, spent Space Agency and decided to focus his startups. He's now an adviser for an water and helium-3 from the moon. And isotope of helium, helium-3 has medicine and cryogenics. Recent helium shortages have forced projects and induce national security Knowing what we can, mine is one thing, another. Braced with new data from NASA and JAXA, devise new ways to mine asteroids. In older thinking, landing on asteroids excavating where the scheme, that may we've learned of asteroids. Scientists typically categorize C-type or carbonaceous asteroids are silicate rocks and contain water. S-type or stony asteroids are the made up of a metallic nickel-iron and Finally, M-type or metallic asteroids asteroids and are thought to be What we've learned is that most one big mountain sized solid piece of Based on this new understanding of with Dreyer to develop a technology it The optical mining process that we've the asteroid in an enclosure, what we The asteroids are typically spinning, Our spacecraft matches the spin with asteroid, captures it and cinches it So we have positive control. Now, once we contain the asteroid in reflectors redirect that concentrated it to drill holes in the asteroid and volatiles, the water and the other And then we can capture those volatiles TransAstra is initially focusing on which Sercel says will enable low cost But eventually, the company plans to table. We've calculated that a single we call the Honey Bee, can fly out to 100 tons of water and other ices in a It's worth about a billion dollars. And we know that because we have a geostationary orbit from a But that kind of revenue is still a ways TransAstra is funded by about $5 NASA and several million in venture To keep itself above board, Sercel says developing its intellectual property eventually be incorporated into its existing market needs. One of the commercial opportunities is With our Sutter telescope technology, commercial telescope into a powerful space traffic and orbital debris, the way out to the orbit of the moon. TransAstra has already deployed its the U.S., with the technology currently Eventually, TransAstra also plans to be able to see deeper into the Likewise, there's a burgeoning orbital satellites to their orbital them off. To do this, TransAstra is developing an Bee, the body of which can also be used But the company has yet to operate any Still, Sercel says that TransAstra is from startup contracts for its brought in more than half a million form of NASA R&amp;D grants. Our plan is to be revenue positive at building the company and using these technology. And then as you do that, out and start asteroid mining. Our mining process is three stages. We have to do a vaporization of the So we're going to take an asteroid and atoms and then we're going to ionize So we're going to each take that cloud And then once we have a whole bunch of them. AstroForge is another early stage reality. Founded in 2022 by a former Galactic engineer, AstroForge still mining asteroids for precious metals. We have a limited amount of rare earth group metals. These are industrial your cell phone, cancer drugs, out of them. And the only way to access AstroForge plans to mine and refine back to earth to sell. The key technology that we're developing So that system consists of the material from the asteroid into the And then there's that refinery piece valuable material and removes all the actually sell on earth. So keep costs down. AstroForge will attach its refining launch those satellites on SpaceX There's quite a few companies that make This is what you would typically think solar panels on it, a propulsion system So for us, we didn't want to reinvent The previous people before us, had to buy entire vehicles. They had to build much, much larger and required a huge injection of capital. And I think that was the ultimate SpaceX really allowed a lot of companies aerospace world basically because of So now we can kind of leverage that and piece. AstroForge says it has raised $23 plans to conduct several test missions mining mission in 2025. The company is targeting near-Earth to take around two years. Our first mission is to send up a So we are going to take an artificial created. So we are going to show that zero G in a vacuum. Mission number two for us is a This is where we go out to an asteroid, our spacecraft can last for two years of it to make sure the surface is what The third mission we now introduce our We're going to go out, we're going to that back to Earth, and we'll study on concentrations are of that asteroid. Our fourth mission is when we put all our mission with the excavation arm. We put our processing facility on it, get platinum. Like Planetary Resources and Deep Space mining companies face a large number of The first is uncertainty stemming from law to govern space mining. At the moment, most space activities which was established during the Cold One of the treaty's principles individual nations of any celestial and requires that any space exploration humanity. When it comes to space mining, the whole Space Treaty allows or bans space One of the interpretation what we share the benefit which is coming of benefits should be to the wealth which space mineral or whether mining can knowledge. And the benefit would be In the absence of an established mining, some countries have taken it The Commercial Space Launch administration in 2015, raised eyebrows companies for the materials that they short of granting companies ownership In the time since Luxembourg, Japan and established their own space mining But Schmidt says not having an be enough to dissuade some companies I think that the national laws are not legal uncertainty they observe, ownership. If they invest money and go discussion about the ownership is not what they are going to mine will be to use the material for whatever they But Sercel says there's already There is limited slots in geostationary Once you have the allocated slot and companies are not allowed to go there So we're certain that when we go to an resources from it, that we will own Another challenge is even more basic, mining in the first place. Prior to conducting their own missions, go on is existing observation data from asteroids they have selected, contain The most challenging aspect of asteroid We have a lot of evidence and don't actually have a lot of truth handful of missions that have actually So you can design a perfect system, you technology piece, you can control the you can't control what the asteroid is If the companies do somehow manage to the next hurdle is selling them. Theoretically, an influx of precious market on earth could be enough to But AstroForge says this is unlikely. When you look at the supply and demand the total market cap of these metals is We're talking about bringing back $80 So for us, it would take quite a bit of supply and demand curve as we go For now, commercial space mining remains starting to test out their tech and Still, experts believe that some form place. The question is when? I think we will be able to mine an At the very least, this will be done as but possibly also include an actual processed into propellant. In terms of the timeline for mining funding. So it depends on how fast we ventures and then get practical that have all the components of an But we could be launching an asteroid If we have a developed a working space imagine asteroid mining will become a But it's not a ten year time period. I believe that we are going to mine in years from now.