A mirror inside ASML's EUV lithography machine With 10-12 reflections in the machine, photons hit the wafer. Electrical power It also contributes to since not enough EUV photons hit the So a recent paper from Professor Institute of Science &amp; Technology caught my eye. It proposes a simplified setup with radically to me that his system no way challenges I think this thing can work. In today's video, I want to walk you through this interesting ## Beginnings We should begin with a brief overview of am not going to cover everything, just First, we need EUV light, 13.5 nanometer a number of ways - lasers hitting tin droplets, A mirror then collects the light and which spreads out the light and makes That light then bounces off a photomask, a special The reflected light then goes through an the size of the pattern on the mask's Finally, the light hits the resist-coated the machine's whole wafer exposure I must pause briefly to explain It is a fancy word meaning the size area of the We want the field to be as big as need more exposures to cover the whole offers more chances for things to The industry standard has been 26 is important to be backwards compatible with viable. The bare acceptable minimum would That can barely print an Apple SOC chip. millimeters. Thanks to Max of the YouTube Anyway. ASML offers two variants High-NA. The Low-NA machine's NA NA stands for Numerical it describes the range of angles at which a you pattern at higher resolution. Though as we Let us count the mirrors for the Low-NA machine. four in the illuminator, the mask-mirror itself, That makes 12 total reflections - each ## Schwarzschild Optics Why so many? Over the 20+ teams have experimented One of the first EUV systems was designed His system had a flat reflective photomask. And for the projection module, there was a Schwarzschild optics have been used has two sphere-shaped mirrors - a primary and the secondary mirror is in the light's path. Professor Kinoshita's main goal at the time was to EUV light onto a chip design pattern and then succeeded in doing that, but also presented The mirrors' spherical, curved the chip design image in a spherical, gets more pronounced the further away But since both the wafer and the mask are flat, the curved image is not uniformly in as it is called limits how large we It gets worse when we start scaling the NA - way to improve patterning resolution. Because a it also worsens the field curvature effect ## NTT's Aspherical Systems As a result, people moved away from In 1992, the Japanese telecom company they had been working on for the module used two aspherical, equal-radii mirrors. Aspherical, meaning not spherical. Note that these are sometimes also referred And Equal radii, meaning that they share the same One primary convex mirror curving mirror curving inwards. This lets them cancel Both mirrors had holes in them to allow light This setup was called the &quot;equal In addition to the two mirror projection module, two-mirror illuminator, and a synchrotron - a type ## The MET Tools If you recall your EUV history, and it should be Then you know that in the late 1990s a consortium of American IC makers led by Intel The EUV LLC consortium's product was the system had an NA of about 0.1, which was low field of 24 by 32.5 millimeters was large enough But that 0.1 NA. Afterwards, and the famous technology consortium test the other aspects of the EUV ecosystem, with an NA more comparable to that So in 2004, they joined together to build Tool or MET, which had an 0.3 equal radii projection system and had an The Berkeley lab has continued working upgrading the optics and mechanics to a field size of 0.2 millimeters by 0.03 By then, it was decided that if we wanted then we had to have more than ASML's first EUV Alpha Demo Tool - shipped in 2006 More mirrors seemed the only way to the additional mirrors necessitated a the substantially greater power loss 200+. Doing that took roughly another ## The Shintake System I asked Professor Shintake about Professor Shintake began studying the nuclear sciences before switching to He has spent thirty years researching such systems and their related technologies In 2011, he helped build the world's The Spring-8 Angstrom Compact Free-Electron He has also designed an underwater from tidal currents. That is very say is that he - unlike me - is not In 2022, he came across a diagram of the ASML EUV light takes such a strange path. Such an off-axis Over the next two years, he studied over a hundred the industry. During his research, he came Some background. The Petzval field curvature Petzval. Joseph is perhaps most well known for Petzval's formulas suggested a way to use to increase the field size. To confirm optical simulation software and ran it for three ## How It Works the existing ASML 6-mirror projection So the stages are largely the same - projection to wafer. So let us trace the First, we collect light from the light source with the goal of sufficiently illuminating After reflecting off the photomask, the with the M1 and M2 mirrors inside Once inside the chamber, the Then it reflects back up to the Finally after that, it goes exiting the chamber through In total, we have five reflections just like the old NTT EUV prototype ## Projection we are gonna do a deep dive A presentation from Carl Zeiss and optics to make this projection module. One particular can project a perfectly flat field - as in no But his presentation also noted that positioned inside the center of the two this arrangement would be impossible Shintake played around with this and results by making the M2 mirror as thin the wafer. It still leaves us with some field The MET also had to put the mirror It can be bit tricky to execute, since thin as possible while keeping To enlarge the small field size, we make the the distance between the photomask - the object image is being formed - was about 276 as you undoubtedly remember, gave us a field Shintake's proposal increases the distance thusly also the tool's height - to the very limit About 2 meters or 6 foot, 6 inches. Or just a bit taller than a Michael widely-accepted standard for height increment. The semiconductor fab people do not at least nowadays. I feel like ASML's people's expectations for tool sizes. But of such a big device. Shintake will ## Illumination So this two-mirror projection system we just reviewed, it is not particularly novel. So I think what is actually most special about the Shintake system is the module located The EUV lithography tool is a mask is exposed through a fixed &quot;exposure slit&quot;. You &quot;scan&quot; or, like, drag the mask through the time in the opposite direction. Once the scan is It makes more sense to be honest when you look at a transparent mask rather The challenge with the illumination system is that light must be positioned in such a way to bounce This was a great challenge. Professor previous illumination systems that did he came up with a clever something With dual line field, four smaller light light sources are positioned to keep the sources from reflecting onto each &gt; If you hold two flashlights, one in mirror in front of you at the same angle, always hit the opposite flashlight, &gt; But if you move your hands outward flashlights until the middle is the light can be reflected without colliding What makes this really clever is that unlike the So as the lithography machine does exposed to the light cone from the first But the mask is still scanning. That spot on and then gets exposed to that second Such an arrangement can only work with a This is very clever. This two-slit arrangement thus avoiding a reflection back at the sources. has a patent application out on the dual ## The Possibilities So what is possible with this simplified design? Run the variables through the famous Rayleigh and a 13.5 nanometer wavelength gets you the K(1) process factor is the same 0.35 To compare, a leading edge 193-nanometer of 1.35 and a K(1) of 0.27. This works Now, there is more to consider than just maintenance, and so on. But just based How about ASML's Low-NA EUV machines? Their High-NA EUV machines' theoretical half pitch is around 8 nanometers. So the ASML EUV But if we raise the NA of then the critical dimension half pitch works 0.3 is probably where this will 0.2 NA machine proposed in his first standards. Namely, its field scan size of So he is rewriting the paper with more field scan size and reduction ratio of 4. This would require the adoption of field-stitching techniques like those the industry is But we should note that most smartphone ## The Bent Mask So what are the catches? There are a few But one that caught my eye is that with photomask image having some bit of field So for additional help, he suggests photomask to correct the remaining curvature. Yes, as in taking a regular flat it (Bend It Like Beckham!) by anywhere from 30-120 microns - depending on NA and tool size I asked someone in the mask industry about EUV photomasks, and he sounded made from a very stiff substrate of ultra My friend suggested making curved blanks that. This will also be challenging writers aren't equipped for that right features - depth of focus - is limited, More consultation is needed, but the curved mask is not absolutely ## An Imminent Breakthrough? This paper was somewhat covered in the Overseas commentators exclaimed in typical edge of EUV lithography chip-making revolution&quot;, and Technology claims breakthroughs that could equipment&quot; - based on what I presume to be a I abhor such statements because you can see what it actually is. It is a decades of work already done in the EUV Right now, the machine only exists in a theoretically, but we are far away more technical hurdles to overcome, If someone wanted to found a startup around would need to figure out. Like how to the photomask plus their blanks, the precision nanometer-accuracy, the special new photoresists, So Shintake intends for his system to help, not challenge the ASML systems. He re-iterated ## Conclusion Before we end, I want to thank Professor Tech for taking the time to speak with Let me wrap this up. I admire Shintake's of EUV as we know it today. He went up with something wonderful. I don't though a commercial machine So what do we do with this? The paper proof-of-principle experiment. with requirements more in line like a 13 millimeter-wide field for instance.