Pan Ta lined up to kill, withstood the infantry attack, Nuo infantry attacked , the drunken people lived as slaves, the awake people fought hard and died, come with me , kill the left wing of the secret art tribe first, unsheath the cavalry sword, follow me, the whole army went out to kill Chilang, how could they do that? follow people's instructions Spread the reputation of the Helan tribe throughout the grassland, and let the seven tribes of Hanzhou be impressed by our achievements . Can you do it in the future ? You must fulfill your mission. Go , Princess Jing, I have something to discuss with you. Please take a step to talk about it. Tell me, Jing. Princess quells rebellion Hanzhou still needs to borrow something from the princess. I wonder if the princess is willing. You said that you want to borrow the princess 's life. If you want to use it, the princess can't bear it. If it's useful , take it with you. Thank you, princess. But I want to know how you plan to use my life. Princess Jing has offended Mu Ruhanshan. What on earth are you going to do? My father is very against secret arts. I have tried so hard to find only this trace arrow. I can know where the princess goes. I just hope that the princess can lead us to Helan Camp. You dream of killing Shuo Feng. and leaves Mu Yun Yanshuang, I saw Mu Yun Yanshuang , she was about to die. Someone attacked the camp. You shouldn't have come. You don't like me. I can't watch you come to die. It's a trap . Only a fool like you would really come and drive with all his strength. What are you going to do with her? Let her live. You have to take her back to the main camp. The people from the East China are looking for us. Do I look good at the camp ? In the next life, please be born on the grassland. Born in my tribe, so that I can meet you early, catch you , and live with you for the rest of my life. I also give you a promise. For the other life, I can still find you in this life. I will definitely watch you kill me at the last moment. What did you say to kill? You 're crazy. Kill me. I let you kill me. Don't let Shuofeng and Ye take me back to the main camp. Is there anything on me ? Tiduo , she asked me to tell you. Don't take her back to our camp. Who will hurt me again? Woman is my eternal enemy. I said I will never let anyone die in my arms again. You have to summon her for her. Summon Chi Wolf, the magic bell. When the bell rings, we will transform into a wolf for you again. We will stake the honor of our ancestors to fight for you and be driven by you three times. You have to summon our warriors Shuofeng and Ye for a woman. You are Tie Qin. Come on. Ah, why isn't it Shuofeng? Su He, please take us back to the camp. Chilang is only for the master to drive three people. Cike , I still remember , I remember , the master told uncle, I will go too, you will regret it. Mother - in-law is here . It's better. It's time to wake up . Don't worry, my medicine is good. Quickly help me roll up her sleeves. Mother-in-law, hurry up and tell Shuofeng. He Ye, she brought us disaster. Where is the most beautiful sunrise in Hanzhou ? Shuofang is free. Take me there when the time comes. Don't think about it . You won't see the sun again. I know that if you are buried in Hanzhou, you can be born in Hanzhou in the next life . You don't deserve to be born in Hanzhou in the next life. You promised me , right? I forget now. If you want to survive, run now as fast as possible. The Mu Ru cavalry is coming. I said before I die. I will definitely look at you the last time I look at you . I did it. Shuofeng and Ye let go of her. I heard that she is useful. Keep her and she is useful. My father is right. Mu Ruli, you don't need to follow me back to report to the general He. Lanbu is preparing for the battle with Nuo. Do you remember the appearance of Helan Tieyuan and Shuo Feng and Ye? Quick Kill, Quick Decision, Nuo Tie Qin Dan Yao Amu has removed the secret technique to cover the camp , but what if the women and children are slow to evacuate? If they stay in the camp without bait, who is willing to come in ? You are a wolf with a dark heart. Call me Tie Qin. If mine Tie Duo will understand how smart I am . Mu Ru Tieqi is here to protect Tie Qin and protect Tie Qin x KI Mu Ru cavalry is coming The drunk lives as a slave, the awake fights and dies. You are right. That is what my father said. Your father and I. Dad is dead. Everyone who said this is dead. If they had chosen to escape back then, would they still be alive now? Your father and I are both watching us in the hall of Pan. They are watching us now. Look at the sky. They are all black and all the guiding stars have been hidden. No one can tell me to lead thousands of people to death. Is it right or wrong? They follow me just so that they can live better in the future and live toward death. Death is life. Tieyuan, if your Abba and my Abba had not taken up arms to resist Mu Ru Tieqi, we would not be where we are now. Some people alive are just a shadow on the earth. Some people are dead. They are the light that guides the way. The station is a hundred miles away from the main camp. There is a canyon there. You take all the men out first. Leave the women and children in the camp. Leave the horses and food for them. If we can't come back, they have to survive. Okay . Your woman also carries why Donglu woman is useful . How do you plan to use it ? You will know when it comes. At this time, there is nothing to be reluctant to part with. You forgot that if she is hit by a secret spell, it will expose our reason. There is no ambush. It is just a desperate man. Only by fighting hard in front can women and children survive . Okay. Wait, you are not as smart as Tie Duo. You only have a sense of stupidity . But I like you. You can give me strength. Tie Qin, your needs are mine. Why are you here? Let me die where I can see the earth. I want to take you to the battle. Is it your idea or Helantie's idea to take me as a hostage and force Mu Rubing to retreat? From now on, you are with me. Where am I? Where are you? You care about me. This battle is win or die. There is no way out. The mark of the secret technique on my body will make Mu Ru's arrow shoot at you. If you die, you will die. When you are reincarnated in the next life, at least you and I can go out together , go out, go out , go out, fight to the death , fight to the death, fight to the death, go out, fight to the death, fight to the death, and report from the front. Helan Tieyuan General, we are setting up camp. Do we want to attack them now? They have many men and horses, five times as many as my army. They have been marching for days and have been exhausted . We have to rest and recuperate overnight . We have to rush back to Tianqinuo . Kill, kill, kill. Let me kill them all. What are you doing ? It's none of your business. I'm under orders . Whose orders are you following? You'll know what you want to do soon. The generals will be on alert. The generals will draw their bows. The archers will draw their the arrows. Abandon the bow and crossbowman . Kill the bastards. Shoot the arrows. Be on guard . Kill the bastards. Shuofeng and Ye. You want it. Why do you dare to let her go? Even if you die, how can I wash away my sins ? What are you here to do? I will fulfill my promise. Men of Hanzhou, do you want women to stand in front of you when fighting ? How should men of Hanzhou fight to the death, fight to the death, fight to the death? This is where my ambition to draw my sword to kill you ends . This is your end point. Fight and kill Tieqin. My troops have been damaged. No need to tell me about Mu Ru's victory. Tieqin doesn't dare to listen . No, he doesn't dare to listen. No need to listen to them. Everyone will die and the final victory will be certain It is my pan-shoes god's battle ax that wields the world's destruction and reincarnation. The pan-shoes god's battle ax wields the world's destruction and reincarnation. My dead brothers, your glory today will surely illuminate our way to the heavenly temple. Pan Ta, my dead brothers Your glory today will surely illuminate our journey to the heavenly temple. Pan Ta Ti Qin Ku Sudu. I ask you if in all of your hearts you feel that I am the one who fights behind a woman. Nineteen of you. exist Do you count? I only killed nineteen. Did you kill each of the nineteen Mu Ru soldiers in our Daduan Dynasty? I remember every one of them. So how many of us did you kill ? Did you count them? Count them. One day you will forget them. Is that a day? There will be no more Daduan Dynasty in Kyushu. That day your surname Muyun will no longer have any meaning. You and I will no longer be enemies. Do you believe it? I believe it. Of course I believe it. My father has said that I am nothing since I was a child. There is only one talent that is different from ordinary people , and that is a good memory As long as what happens, no matter whether it is good or bad, I will never forget you. Look at the stars. Girl with a good memory, remember today. It is a rare opportunity to look at the stars on the battlefield. Shuofeng and Ye Muyun Yanshuang, please remember that in the future, whenever you are willing to forget, you will come to me. I will be waiting for you, Shuofeng and Ye. Remember , whenever you are willing to let go and no longer rebel against Daduan , you will come to me and I will. Waiting for you , don't go any further, go back quickly, brother, everyone here thinks that the real Tie Qin is the one who rushes to kill, not the one who commands from behind. You are overthinking it. There is only one Iron King Sword, and you can't miss it when you have it. Maybe what I really want to do is not Tieqin, you still have Greater ambitions What is a human being? What is Tie Qin ? What is Tie Qin? I don't want to disappoint my father. Your father is dead. My father is still alive in my heart. One day I will be like him. A real Hanzhou man can A person who can protect his own desires . He can protect the good life of many people. I can't remember what my father looks like. I have a special feeling lying on the battlefield. Where is the war? What do you think the war is about? It's the people's heart when you try your best When you want to win, your desire has blinded your eyes. You can't see the enemy's heart clearly. When you can't see others clearly, all your tactics, strategies, and strategies are just using your own heart as a target . It's all about myself. I envy you and Ye. You can forget your own desires . I can't. I just want to be the king. I just like power. I just like watching others and letting me do my bidding. Watching the world because I changed , I remember that I can't. If you forget your desires , I will always remind you You have to be awake so that I don't go blind when I look at the enemy. Brother, you have to take good care of yourself in this war . You have to live to see me sit on the throne of Kyushu. You have to live to see me. It proves that desire plus sobriety is more important than being a kind and good person. Be useful , be successful , be correct, little Mu Ru, get up and pee, everyone, eat more meat, Master Mu Ruli , how many days have we been here for ? It's almost a day, father and son, our mission is about to end, let's say goodbye , we will be born as heroes and die as ghosts . It will be a great sight to be side by side again in the next life It looks so good. Order is the highest law for maintaining peace in the world. The moment you pick up the butcher knife, you should know that you will die by the knife . Mu Ru is the knife that slaughters you. Draw the knife, draw the knife , draw the knife, fight to the death, fight to the death. It feels so good to win Kill, protect Princess Jing, kill me. Can I ask you one thing? Can you promise me not to look into my eyes at that moment of battle on the battlefield? I promised you that if we meet again on the battlefield, I will never look into your eyes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it hurts. failed It smells so stinky. He looks like a dog, so just treat him like a dog. Win, Tie Qin, Tie Qin , Tie Qin. Your friend does n't seem to be very happy about the toasts given by others. Should he share some of the toasts with him ? Let's win. Win, Mu Ru Tieqi. Lose, lose, their era is over The dream we had since we were fourteen has come true. It's not a dream, it's a dream. We won the battle. Why are you still unhappy ? Mu Ru hasn't found it yet. Mu Ru's armor is already on me. His army has finished his. The surname is glorious and the face is lost. On the ground, he is finished, isn't he? My lord, what we defeated is far from all the Mu Ru cavalry in Hanzhou. We only killed a thousand people . What should we do after we have won the battle ? If we really won the battle, we my smart Tiedo, you are finally back. You will only make your brother happy even more. I found a boat for you. What did you find for me? I found a boat for you. My dear Tiedo, your boat is not for me. Yes, drink and then set off to fight Apocalypse City, we have someone who is going to become the new King of Kyushu. Yes, someone is going to be the new King of Kyushu. What should you accept ? If you accept the gift from the man first and not the gift from the woman, are you humiliating this woman? Then if the man accepts the gift from the woman, then Did you come back and humiliate this woman ? What is it? It is the seal of the lord of the three major tribes of the Soda tribe, the Longge tribe, the Kusu tribe . With them and the Shuofeng tribe, from today on , you will have peace and harmony. There are as many tribesmen as my brother, Helan Tiedo. You are the lord of the four major tribes. Who are you helping? You broke your brother's heart. My brother has known for a long time that I want to help Shuofeng and Ye become the kings of the world. It's time to be happy. We'll talk about the future. Drink, drink, drink. Drinking , Shuofenglan, drag that dog in for me Come here, I want to play and make everyone happy . 2 No need to say anything. My Tieduo is willful. I know that Abba asked me to take care of her before he left . She can do whatever she wants. Open the door . Princess, if she survives, remember to tell the world that Mu Ru did not retreat and leave . Mu If you don't retreat, wait a minute. How could the eldest son of Mu Ru's family dress so shabbily at the banquet if he had not retired ? Mu Ru , right? If Mu Ru had not retired , you would still be a beast today . General Mu Ru, look at you. You are still proud of yourself . Go to hell. Look, you are still majestic. Go to hell ? Are you still proud? Are you still proud ? Click on General Mu Ru and take a good look inside. Little Mu Ru, is it fun to call me General ? Is it fun to call me General ? We are just pawns of the General . We came here and never thought about going back alive . I didn't expect you to be so stupid . My father has now crossed the sea and arrived in the East China Sea. Mu Rutieqi will kill you all with just one spark of fire. If you are so proud, I will give you a gift. Do you know what this mark is? This is the mark of a slave. I will not kill him. I will let him wear it for the rest of his life. Bearing the mark of this slave, I want everyone in Kyushu to know that everyone who comes to see Muru's eldest son will probably be Muru's general, but he is just the slave of our people from the Northern Territory . Slave Hanshan's mission has been completed . You will not be some future general. Even if you humiliate me, someone will reward me in the future. Even though I lost , as long as you dare to look forward, you will see the victory of the Eastern Continent . Your destruction, victory and glory will always belong to us, Mu. If you really think you will win , of course, because my father has made the right decision , Mu Ru has so much confidence , but the news of our victory was not sent to Tianqi. The people of the Eastern Continent will see Mu Ru's failure from this person with their own eyes. Only then will they understand that no one can protect them. Only then will they know what real fear is. I will take you to the land of the Eastern Continent. You will see over there. All the men are so scared that they have the courage to kneel in front of you, so that it can be like before. We need someone who is willing to use his own life to send the message. There is only one person in my heart. He is the only one who can deserve this honor, right? My brother. Great victory can only be turned into a miracle if it is preached by the most noble people. If your blood wine is in front of Shangyang Pass, these brothers, all our brothers will avenge you, and I will always remember you. How did Tie Qin win the battle and let us Shuofeng and Ye die ? Who taught you to talk to Tie Qin like this? Brother , you are too impatient. When you were young, your father often taught you to just Hunters who can eat alone will starve to death the fastest. Have you forgotten? I went to Hanzhou, people are really a piece of loose sand. I went to my brothers. When they win, they should drink. Shuo Feng and Ye. I would rather break your legs than watch you die . I went to deliver news, not to die. My brother, thank you. Thank you Tie Qin for giving this great honor to Shuofeng and Ye. Okay, Tie Duo, you shed tears because you can't understand. It's useless whatever you do. He can't hold you in his heart. Don't be stupid . Feng and Ye, I have to live, I have to avenge them , open the door, what are you doing here? Why am I here to kill you ? Who wants to kill me, Shuofeng and Ye, are you afraid? If it is true, I have nothing to say and let you kill me. If it is a lie , I feel sorry for you. What do you mean? Shuofeng and Ye, he always mentioned you before, you are talking nonsense. He used to be my slave . I always asked him to tell me stories about Hanzhou. What did he say to me when I have you? I want to have one last bowl of your Hanzhou milk tea. It's so delicious . You don't need half of it. I know you feel bad too. Don't blame me . What do we want? No one can give us anything. We have no choice but to rob you. There is no need to rob Shuofeng and Ye. He already likes you. You lied. Tell me, Shuofeng and Ye, do you want to be the king of the world and conquer Kyushu? Do you think that relying on your troops like Beilu is enough? Don't forget that my surname is Muyun. My father has a fief , an army and gold baht. I only care about Shuofeng. He Ye Youyou said nonsense that he is not that kind of person and he still wants to risk his life Let me take you home. Shuofeng and Ye value their lives so much . How could they sacrifice themselves for unimportant people at this moment of victory ? If you kill me now, you will harm him. As long as I am still alive , I can let my father Guarantee Shuofeng and Ye's safety in Zhongzhou. Can I trust you? What if you want to save your life to deal with us? If you want to leave, leave now. She's gone. I'll let her go.