Writing lies at the foundation of modern society. It is a technology that few of us think about, the pen, BIC. Before the advent of metal pens, the western the quill. Finding bird feathers wasn't very hard, was done. Once the Industrial Revolution got underway, resulted in the dip pen. It was essentially a metal nib mounted on a quill and it's practical use was about The first truly practical pens appeared at They are what we call fountain pens, and the reservoir of ink inside. The first commercially successful fountain Waterman. He was originally an insurance broker, but the prototype fountain pen he had bought for document. This accident eventually resulted in the deal job. Making the best out of a bad situation, Waterman it was his design that truly made fountain next half century. It wouldn't be until the 1930s that fountain The man responsible for that was Laszlo Biro, He had noticed that the ink used in newspaper dry and smudge-free. When he tried using the same ink in a fountain tip because it was too viscous. After seven years of trial and error, Laszlo of a ball that could freely rotate in a socket. As the ball ran along the paper, it would spread it out evenly. What Laszlo had created was the ballpoint bit unlucky. As Hungarian Jew, Laszlo was well aware of he packed his bags and moved to Paris. While there, he got the lucky chance of meeting Justo. He was so impressed by the ballpoint pen that of course, he did, as he wanted to be as far Once in Argentina, Laszlo set up a company to His Majesty's Royal Air Force in the This first generation of ballpoint pens wasn't to leaking and the ink would often clog. Most of Laszlo's non-government clients his company to the brink of bankruptcy. To keep the company afloat, Laszlo resorted and in the US. The man who bought the European rights to Bich. He had entered the pen business in 1945, when of Paris and used it to start making fountain Marcel fell in love with the ballpoint pen, selling the patent, he threw $2 million at With the patent in hand, Marcel used his considerable stainless steel technology from Switzerland. Now, keep in mind, plastic was still a very only been commercialized a few year prior. The shaping machines Marcel bought were cutting down to 10 micrometers. The design of Marcel's pens was as simplistic The pen's barrel was shaped similarly to a table, and since it was made of transparent running out of ink. What truly made Marcel's endeavor successful, of scale. You see, the pens that Laszlo sold were very to fountain pens, it was very hard to justify for one pen. Marcel, however, streamlined his production to sell his pens for a fraction of the cost: in the US. Marcel's initial plan was to sell the pens him how English speakers were pronouncing Thus, in 1950 he established Societe BIC and which he called the BIC Cristal. Unsurprisingly, the pen was an instant hit, terms of quality and price. Within 3 years, Marcel was selling 40 million He could barely keep up with the rising demand and right: and just two years later his pens were also Marcel didn't enter the US market until fashion. Remember our friend Lewis Waterman? He was the insurance broker who started making The company he had started was now the largest the ballpoint revolution had left them near To gain a foothold in the States, Marcel offered He repurposed most of Waterman's factories pen division as a luxury brand, which is still entity. In 1961 French artist Raymond Savignac created the company's logo ever since. That year the company replaced their stainless carbide, which they still use today. By the end of the 1960s BIC pens were sold looking for other products to add to his arsenal. In line with his philosophy, he needed something every day: a pocket lighter turned out to Much like with the ballpoint pen, Marcel's alternatives and was capable of producing Its release in 1973 was met with universal 35% of the company's revenue. Just two years later Marcel found another In what was essentially a declaration of war razor in 1975. They heavily undercut Gillette and have been Although BIC have had a hard time outcompeting of their business, making up almost 24% of As a lifetime watersports enthusiast, Marcel windsurf equipment and sailboards. Although BIC Sport is still around today, it hasn't been very successful. Marcel's future endeavors, however, would A few months after starting BIC Sport, Marcel Guy Laroche from its founder for $10 million. At first the deal seemed great, but with the and incapable of making new designs, the fashion When Guy himself died in 1989, things became Marcel was also getting pretty old at that when he tried to enter the perfume market the whole line of perfumes just two years Marcel died in 1994, and his son Bruno took His first move was to strengthen BIC's hold Tipp-Ex, the two largest correction brands He sold the unprofitable Guy Laroche in 2001, a Chinese company. Since then BIC has tried to venture into the phones, tablets and hydrogen fuel cells, but Even today, their most successful products and lighters. In fact, just in 2016 BIC sold 7 billion pens, If time has shown anything, it's that the of their products and judging by their failure a ballpoint pen, they would do well to continue Thanks for watching! If you enjoyed this video, please consider We spent more than we're willing to admit all of this stuff, so any help would be more If you enjoyed the history of BIC feel free full Behind the Business playlist for the Once again, thanks a lot for watching, and