Thanks to SquareSpace for making this video More on that after this video. With a wingspan greater than a Boeing 747's, the largest aircraft ever built by Britain. More a flying oceanliner than plane, it had bar and lounge. Even a 23 seat movie theater. And if it had been the 1930's, when transatlantic it might've been a hit. But this lumbering super-sized piston airliner the first jets were already taking to the After a massive development effort, Britain designed for an era that no longer existed. In the midst of the Second World War, with began to worry. Not just about the war, but what happens after. Because as soon as victory was assured, Britain kind of battle; one for the future of their Because the Americans had a whole range of redesign into airliners after the war. But Britain's industry had been focused back to Germany. But these bombers couldn't easily be redesigned So Britain came up with a plan. They'd design a whole range of cutting edge Some, were incredibly ambitious. Like building the world's first jet powered But the way Britain really planned to get largest Commercial Transport. An enormous luxury-liner of the skies, which It would have true transatlantic capability. Able to fly non-stop from London to New York In the 1940's, this would have been quite Transatlantic flights were almost always done The task of building this behemoth was assigned And its development was given the highest But the Brabazon wasn't just going to push This plane was also going to redefine luxury. Because, although the Brabazon would have it was only ever intended to carry between And some felt even that was too many. Because comfort was the highest priority, an incredible 283 cubic feet of space. The less fortunate would have to settle for There would be private sleeping compartments, A kitchen for preparing fine meals. A cocktail lounge and bar for schmoozing. And of course, no flight is complete without But on this plane. we're talking about an actual movie theater The Brabazon was also fitted with cutting A fully pressurized, air conditioned cabin. Electric engine controls, and high-pressure surfaces. But getting this 130 tone, fully loaded behemoth York.. in one shot, wasn't going to be easy. Every effort was made to save weight. A custom, lighter, non-standard aircraft skin It's enormous wing housed more than 16 thousand piston engines available. And their arrangement was, well, complex Nothing instills confidence over the middle supercharged engines, each connected by a then drives a pair of contra-rotating propellers. And for all the incredible complexity. the 8 engines produced barely enough power and give it a cruise speed of only 250 miles What the Brabazon really needed was more powerful But these wouldn't be ready in time. So a decision was made to finish the first a second one using a new turboprop being developed In late summer 1949, the first Brabazon rolled first flight. It's interior hadn't yet been finished. But the Brabazon proved it's airworthiness from the press. But what it didn't attract was a single The problem was, the Brabazon wasn't really Instead, it was going steal away wealthy passengers And in 1943 that might've been a solid plan. But by 1949, the number of aircraft making BOAC, later known British Airways, had worked And in the end, even they didn't want it. By the time the Brabazon made its first flight, Stratocruisers for their transatlantic flights. A plane that carried up to a 100 passengers, the weight. And the Comet, the first jet airliner to enter its first flight several months earlier. The Comet didn't fly far as the Brabazon, But it flew nearly twice as fast. And that was far more appealing for passengers For the next three years, the Brabazon lumbered appearances and wowing crowds with its size. But few airlines showed any interest in the Meanwhile, back in Britain, the second Brabazon develop more advanced turboprops. By 1953, it was clear that Britain was parading After 6 million pounds spent on it's development, the program was cancelled. And the Brabazon, sold for their weight in scrap. And remarkably, just 9 months later, Boeing unvaild it's Dash 80. A jet powered airliner that would become the to as little as 7 hours. Despite introducing new innovations, many the Brabazon's driving philosophy was outdated. New disruptive technologies and a completely the same ultrarich ones from the 1930's, a chance. Maybe you've got big ambitions to launch about something more modest, like a side hustle. Whatever you do, a good website is key to So, make your next move with SquareSpace's websites, online stores, portfolios, or whatever With their seamless easy domain registration, After that, you've got an incredible range you impress. Start building your website for free at squarespace.com/mustard, use the code mustard for 10% off your first