Because I'm a huge fan of worldbuilding, I wish everyone else (cheering). Like, sure, with its and complex magic system, this setting is amazing... stepping into the ring -- today I'm doing a full first problem: Physics. At a glance, Earth's compared to other pieces of media, but look sloppy oversights. Like how a human can put burned if they remove it fast enough. called the Leidenfrost effect, wherein a layer of object, in this case the hand, but I don't know, And there's some huge incompatibility between embarrassing. "I really hope somebody got fired typically smooth over such inconsistencies, but spells performed are just clever bits of trickery. when your primary mode of transportation is that only a specialized form of wizard called a system, you've just called it something else. And pretty sure that's called witchcraft. Earth's is apparent with how the project handled the things... 'classy.' Only playing the hits of water, rocky, mineral-y stuff that makes up the and feel. These early systems usually had lovely power-scaling -- exactly as it should be. But, uh these systems, and they want to add Mercury, Hohenheim, as long as no-one adds any more -- oh you do Dimitri?! Now, it's a huge mess. Sure, some obvious powers, like levitation... some have decent destruction spells, but this many elements means Rutherfordium, Californium -- is 'that' what it's one might not even exist? Get out of here. Just complexity isn't always more engaging. a "which periodic element are you? quiz -- oh, how about Biology? Well again, it's certainly between what gets included, and what gets left rightly pointed out the absurdity that unicorns 'leopard-moose-camels with a 40-foot neck' -- give here, it's fine that they eat bones. Also, some butterflies' taste with their feet, and sea all that, and no dragons? Feels pretty arbitrary, who gets to be the star of the show -- Humans. around 8 billion which is... probably fine. They impractical drawbacks. Wisdom teeth they have goosebumps -- because they still think they have they still think they have third eyelids, and most absurd of all, they can't hold their true? (tries) It is true that's so weird. Do we lions, crocodiles, and this -- thing? Oh, but the shake weight, I could stop there, but let's most fictional settings, objects have value something logical, like a rare mineral or unicorn of value are instead tied up in hypothetical digits. That means you have characters buying losing everything, going hungry, and committing 100% theoretical. Feels a bit too pessimistic, to I-, oh no... oh that's not right. But forget and meet mentha spicata an all-natural plant keep animals from chowing down. But humans call it and toothpaste, because they love that refreshing, as hot as possible, because they apparently an ingredient classified as a 'chemical irritant sense that these things took over. So maybe some Because in worldbuilding, a consistent map usually as you can see, wildly inconsistent. In theory, since flattening out a globe into a flat what -- as this country-size-comparison website is actually... woah. Is that right? And Greenland Liechtenstein. But seriously, is it so impossible sides of the globe, and then you just sort of -- right. But how about place names? Well, not to bit silly -- and the stories behind them are often six rivers in the UK all called the 'River Avon.' general theory goes that this is because when the that river called?" The Celts would say "Avon," not realizing Avon is just the Celtic word for that whoever made this map is super lazy. Beyond bit catawampus. An effective fictional language, rules for the audience's benefit. For research, an Earth conlang which is... complete is not a sentence. The English wiki might claim spelling has equal clownery afoot. Like, 'Friends' that's apparently where it goes except after C, - eight - counterfeit - beige - sleighs - Or with... all these. Also, why is it, (as painters paint, but fingers don't... fing? Why do yourself a favor, and just learn Klingon. So about music? Well Earth, admittedly, has a pretty I mean -- hard to beat a cuneiform classic like the waterfalls, Hieronymus Bosch gave us a definite and Purple Haze is also pretty good. No, my real these instruments. Because I've actually got and it doesn't sound nearly as good as Mr. learning to play an Earth instrument requires for any meaningful Earth artform... and you have to that. 'But hang on, what about the storyline?' place called a library and wow this project needs way too long. Having hundreds of millions no matter how cool they were. As it stands, than from modern humans -- which, come on. And zero missed opportunity. No, birds don't count, they the timeline gets far messier. Sharks -- everyone's swimming around for longer than the evolution of Saturn's rings, and older than one of the points more ancient than the birth of the actual star. I but that's overdoing it. Also, Cleopatra pyramid's construction, and there are parts of the bones. A timeline this muddled and lengthy makes difficult. Tycho Brahe seems promising -- he became over a mathematical formula and got a bronze one, Denmark, had a pet moose that died after getting Mr. Brahe himself passed away peacefully -- just a character worth following, but Tycho was tearing plotline covers 4.5 billion years. The fleeting run into with every character, which makes caring experience -- and that's.... I don't like it. Glass cosmic unfairness of the human condition aside, terms of believability. It rained frogs for a was promoted to the rank of a corporal, the US imagine, a dog played in the NBA, it looks like, bought this. Hey, speaking of -- Technology! Earth function but to breed nightmares. In keeping with the most ordinary objects have ludicrous amounts compared to other settings. I'm not sure we need It's bubble gum. When it comes to inventions, up with the printing press but no one tell them tech-tree, with such hits as masonry, pottery, splitting the atom, the... internet... uh oh. Yes, or washing their hands, humans have created a microplastics, Yahoo answers -- hmm yes, the work that caught on for a time; there's all sorts or yet to be added in future Earth updates. not to wonder exactly where the human plotline is seem primed for absolute horrific consequences keep foreshadowing a robot apocalypse, and a and a genetic-engineering apocalypse, you need to combined with the crushing weight of it seems unrealistic that this species would supposedly, they've something to help them of existence. It's called philosophy, and it comes which basically says humans rule, humans are definitely not still connected to a complex web of and nothing is ever likely to take humanity There are various forms of Essentialism, some set of inherent traits that determine be categorized. This links back to the older 'Man' as a 'featherless biped'. Behold! A man! every single facet of the Earth seems pretty darn me, but what do I know? If you think Essentialism there's always Empiricism, the philosophy of to figure out what the universe's deal is. Pretty bonkers. Most have veritable labyrinths of tissue electrical impulses -- that's called hearing. into portraits of their surroundings -- or seeing. from the surrounding air and their olfactory seems to work the same way except with nerves all humans with some regularity or else they get quite there's taste, where humans slather their gross if they want to consume it. Add on all those a pretty solid argument that Empiricism and Except for the problem that human senses lie to optical illusions. Is this an old woman or a with a funny hat. So, if humans can't trust their how about the idea that every decision they've This is called Determinism, a cheery bit of is the product of past events, free will therefore matter how impulsive it might feel in the moment, environment and the fact the earth formed at all played out the same way, no matter what. This the idea that life has no intrinsic meaning or limited options. There's the existentialist route, can instead craft their own. Or the absurdist humans can... just do whatever. Relax, if they feel route where they just feel really bummed out for the philosophies that acknowledge the state of an ancient philosophy which is now hip again, of live than making those hardships go away. At where someone forgot to add the objectively but upon reflection, I think this might be difficult to be a human. To be a character in this and seeking a greater understanding of the world no one can fully escape from. No matter one's to experience sorrow. Good thing Earth is entirely up with some fun ethical thought experiments them. Like the classic Trolley Problem, where one human tied to another, and you off to the track the trolley goes down. This dilemma, of is tying all these folks to the trolley track, cave is another famous dilemma, about -- being Cool shadows though. Anyway, solution here also problem solved, wow ethics are easy! Less easy are it is to break Earth's rules. A paradox can be as circuitous as The Barber Paradox. So, imagine and only those, who do not shave themselves.&quot; Does himself, because he only shaves those who don't someone who shaves themselves. But if he doesn't shaved by the barber, except he's the barber, so --nope this reality is a scam, Earth sucks, but... I've got some miscellaneous complaints. in the wash, no explanation. There used to but it seems like they've been de-canonized, add if that holiday is based on surprise. With April other and making prank videos, but how surprising rotation? If you really wanted to get someone, later on a completely random day.... (coughs). Also and this fellow are there still no dragons? And if probably hide them in what I believe to be Earth's place is full of creations that definitely this thing has been floating about in the depths in the last decade? Yeah, not buying it. Someone's in a place they think no one will look. I've I'm declaring victory. ...But I think my single candid, is the way I sometimes feel like I'll because it's nonsensical, and overly-complicated sometimes feels like my entire life, but I still like when one is supposed to have a sense of with eight billion humans it's so easy to feel And though I've done my best to give Earth a fair obvious point that I'm missing, that everyone else and I know it has potential, so... maybe I should value are the small things more than the broad noise that makes the world worthwhile like... right nevermind, we're raising the score, ten out If you enjoyed this video, you can... like and this part into a bit. But seriously, your support