Now that we have provided an overview of the review how the WWC calculates baseline equivalence As discussed in earlier modules in this training estimate the magnitude of differences between on some baseline measures of interest. The WWC uses the same effect size calculation effect sizes as those used for estimating effect sizes in different ways based on the characteristics. For continuous measures--variables that have test scores--the WWC calculates Hedges' For dichotomous measures--variables with or not--the WWC calculates Cox's index. Both of these measures express the effect the variation of the baseline measure in the We will walk through how to calculate effect The WWC's Online Study Review Guide has well. For continuous variables, the WWC calculates Hedges' g is a common effect size indicator. It is calculated as the difference between group members and the average of the characteristic The difference then is standardized to put This slide shows a general equation the WWC Hedges' g represents the difference between group members and the average of a characteristic pooled standard deviation of that characteristic, the weighted average of each group's standard So let us walk through this equation together. First, we see that the numerator of the effect the unstandardized mean difference between some baseline characteristic. This mean difference is multiplied by an Omega correction. This Omega term is what differentiates the d effect size you often see in the literature. The denominator of the effect size calculation and this is what standardizes the effect size units. So, in the denominator we see n-i and n-c and comparison groups, respectively. The "i" and "c" indicate the intervention SD-i and SD-c are the unadjusted standard groups, respectively. So, we see that the denominator in this equation, the weighted average of both groups' standard This equation, along with all the important greater detail in Appendix E of the Handbook. Let's walk through an example of how to continuous baseline characteristic. In this example, we have sample sizes and measure, as well as an unstandardized mean groups. The difference in means between the intervention Let's imagine this was reported in the form regression model that included a dummy variable The standard deviation is ten in both groups. The sample size for the intervention group size for the comparison group is one hundred. Plugging these numbers into the Hedges' to point four standard deviations. This means that the intervention group average that of the comparison group. On this measure, the groups do not demonstrate is greater than point two five standard deviations. For dichotomous baseline variables, which categories, the WWC uses a version of the effect size. Common types of dichotomous variables include enrolling in a course; or any other variable Cox's index is designed to produce an effect g. Here is the formula for Cox's Index. The formula includes the natural logarithm an intermediary calculation called an odds Without going into too much technical detail applies the natural logarithm to the odds event in the intervention and comparison groups. You can find more information about this formula Let's walk through an example of how to In this example, let's say one hundred students are in the comparison group. Let's say our dichotomous baseline variable grade-level proficiency on a mathematics test In this example, thirty seven percent of the whereas sixty three percent of the intervention And, thirty two percent of the comparison percent were not. To calculate the Cox's index the percentages total of one as is written here. For this variable, the Cox's index effect that the intervention group average is point that of the comparison group. On this measure, the groups fall into the use an appropriate statistical adjustment baseline differences and to meet the baseline The equations we just covered for Hedges' formulas. However, the WWC uses different variations in how study authors reported their findings. When calculating Hedges' g effect sizes vary depending on the type of information the study used individual- or cluster-level When calculating Cox's-index effect-sizes also can vary depending on the type of statistical Module 10 in this training series provides in these variations in effect-size calculations. One key point to remember is that the WWC sample using baseline data. The analytic sample includes the units that In the example depicted here, imagine the members in both groups at baseline. The WWC uses baseline data to determine whether before the intervention occurred. The study randomly assigned the sample members, analyzed a portion of the original sample The analytic sample is the group of students The WWC does not assess baseline equivalence assigned, nor the students on the left, because would not reflect changes to the sample through These changes could introduce bias to the equivalence on the analytic sample, but would the sample members at random assignment. That is why the WWC assesses baseline equivalence namely, the group on the right. Now that we have discussed the general procedures sizes, let's consider statistical adjustments standard. Remember that the WWC assesses baseline equivalence RCTs with high risk of bias due to compositional In order to apply the baseline equivalence equivalence effect size, and the magnitude a study's impact analysis requires a statistical The WWC does not require statistical adjustment effect size is less than point zero five standard However, remember the WWC does require statistical size is between point zero five and point The table shown on this slide lists the statistical appropriate for any baseline measure. These include regression covariate adjustments covariate adjustments in hierarchical linear to regression covariate adjustments such as method, and bounding techniques. Study authors might also use other types of relationship between the pre-test and post-test, differences adjustments, or fixed effects The WWC will consider these to be acceptable and outcome measures are from the same outcome and they have a correlation between the pre-test Review teams may waive the requirement of zero six or greater if the topic area protocol pre-tests and post-tests of the measure typically consistently for all studies reviewed under