I think a lot of now are going to be cheered Please welcome Jason Momoa. Hi, everyone. Hi, Ellen. Hi. That's Andy in the He's outside. I don't let him in. What's up, Andy. What's up, brother. How are you doing, man? How are you doing? It feels like to me would be prepared because you have a funhouse. You have so many I do, yeah. We've had a really nice time. I rarely get to be home And there's a lot of things. We've got skateboard and throwing tomahawks, And so we have a I feel very thankful. It's nice being home. I'm never home. Yeah, I bet. I bet you're always working. Where are you right now? What room are you in? I'm in my man cave-- [LAUGHS] This is and [BLEEP] like that . Stuff like that, I mean. You know. OK. Yeah, I didn't want to judge your living room looks like. I didn't want to-- Yeah, this is Just checking. --it's just the man cave. Yeah, all right. There's all kinds of It's like you're a crafts all kinds of things back there. What are those Well, those are-- that's the paintings when she was really young. So there's a lot of And then, the things hanging I got some souvenirs. I don't know I'm supposed Are they boobies? You know, that's I'm sure you all remember that. Sure, yeah. Is that a knife? Are you wearing a knife No, no, no, no. It's just a holster. I took the knife out to have knives on show. You just have a just in case you want I took it out because I so I have it on my pants. We just finished rock climbing. [LAUGHS] I'm going to start Yeah, Andy, you should You can barely hold a pen. [LAUGHTER] So Jason, how old are your kids? They're what, 12? How old are they? 11 and 12. Yeah, Lola's 12, Wolf's 11. How are they dealing with this? I know you said there's a lot But so many kids are How are they doing? The kids are doing really well. You know, everyone's kind My son Wolf was already so it was easy for him. And then, they have time to But I think they're They're loving having been home And we're just getting around But thank God they have their because it's kind of They don't go to me for any-- I'm like the PE coach, Like, get your ass outside want But that's about it. Well, they need PE, so at So let's look at going around with reminding You've seen this, I assume. Yes, yes. I never thought I would be washing themselves. But I'm pretty So I'm glad how it worked out. Well, it's pretty much a to wash their hands like Very good physique. Yeah, he does. He has a very good And yet, I've heard that No, no, no. Shame. I mean, I like doing But I mean, right a lot of just taking because I'm a big fan of food. And I can't really I like so I've just been and just trying to I've been getting Really? Andy, do you have any Yeah. I like a good, slow walk. And sometimes I'll put on to just add a little weight. It's a good workout. OK Jason, that should do it. Two-pound weights on I'm going to do that. Thank you, Andy. They get heavy It gets heavy, Yeah, I think he All right, so let's you were on the show. You were Elvis. It was Halloween, we You didn't just come as Elvis. And you were so fantastic And you looked so good. And then I heard that you left, is right next to ran into Clint Eastwood Yeah, and I freaked out And then I was yelling They have no idea who But I was just totally like, And they're just like, I don't And I just was coming down off of And I probably But he was-- it He was really, really kind and And Clint was-- he's So I can't help but to fanboy. But it's Clint Eastwood. Yeah, he's a great guy. He's going to put That's what I'm assuming-- would give him an idea Hope, hope, you know I mean? Yeah. Although, I think you should do is a comedy because got to see that you're funny. And then with the Super Bowl you got to show your humor. Yeah. We both got to be in the Super too. Yes, exactly. That was very cool. And another cool Ozzy Osbourne's And I know that Massive, massive So I got that. It's pretty cool because I wanted to go to their and I had tickets. And a friend got me And then, our dog passed and I missed their Obviously, I wanted to And then-- it's just a bummer. And then, they gave remembered that I was a big fan. Sharon called me and asked if like, a little promo. And I was just like, To be-- I never would So I was like, hell yeah. I'll do whatever you want, Ozzy. It was very fun. Very cool. What was the last I know you were a big Black when was the last time The last live tour? Yeah, with Ozzy. What was the name of I don't know, but it It was about two Yeah, that was two I forget the name of it also. I just remember because you Right, right, exactly. All right, we're going And then, we're and we're going to with Jason and about his water, And everyone else We'll be right back. You have a new movie coming Which, first of all, But I hear that it was shot in Yeah, we got to shoot I've never seen It was like shooting And Denis Villeneuve is shooting It was an honor to And it's a pretty stellar cast. I've never been a part You know, there is a book by Dune was made, I want to And it's a retelling of that. And I get to play this character kind of a master made a right-hand man to Duke And he's kind of a very-- he's the first person sent out to land on Dune. And that's when I that Javier Bardem plays. Which, I can't believe I had And then, it's him Josh Brolin and and Stellan Skarsgard. It's a pretty massive film he's kind of the Han He's kind of the rogue warrior and he serves Oscar Isaac. What a great cast. Oh my God. Everybody-- unbelievable. And that comes out Yeah, comes out in December. I've never got to work with so it was pretty scary. I was a little on my I'm not usually hired does all the exposition and but I was the guy. And I got Javier and Brolin, and I was super nervous, man. And it's like one of so I'm excited for It's always good to get nervous. It's always good to still get All right, speaking of-- I'm excited, this is and especially the Tell everybody about your water. Well, we've been doing which is we're trying to And so we're just giving And so we're getting We've been working So we'll be having it in Obviously, after the just calling me down right now. So we're taking a and we're donating to a So we're donating 20,000 cans because there's a lot of clean water, and wanting to first responders. And so, wanting to work with you some of our donations out Very cool, very cool. All right, well, to learn go to our website. Jason, thanks for taking And I will see you soon. Stay safe, and my [KISSING NOISES] I love you. Thank you for having me. Love you too, love you too. Bye. Bye. Hi, I'm Andy. Ellen asked me to remind you so you can see more like videos of me getting scared like ball peen hammer. And also, some videos of if you're into [SCREAMS] [BLEEP]. God [BLEEP].