Transcriber: Robert Tucker Thank you. Water is quite beautiful to look at, and I guess you probably all know you do, don't you? But you may not know that that two-thirds translates Think of it, 99% percent So, your shoes are carrying around Now, the question is, in your cells, do those water molecules Are these molecules essentially jobless or do they do something For that matter are we even really sure We read about that in the textbook, but is it possible that some water So, these are questions as you think they might be. In fact, we're really in the dark And why do we know so little? Well, you probably think and it's such a simple molecule, that everything ought to be known I mean you'd think it's all there. Well, scientists think the same. Many scientists think, that everything must be known. And, in fact, that's not at all the case. So, let me show you, to start with, that we ought to know, Here's something that you see every day. You see a cloud in the sky and, probably, How does the water get there? Why, I mean, and the water is evaporating everywhere, why does it go to this cloud So, another question: Could you imagine We expect droplets to coalesce The droplets persist for a long time. And here's another example This is a lizard from Central America. And because it walks on water At first you'll say, &quot;Well, I know the surface tension is high in water.&quot; But the common idea of surface tension is that there's a single molecular layer and this single molecular layer to hold whatever you put there. I think this is an example And here's another example. Two beakers of water. and you put high voltage between them and this bridge is made of water, And this bridge can be sustained as you move one beaker away as much as 4 centimeters, sustained essentially indefinitely. How come we don't understand this? So, what I mean is that there are that we should understand, we really don't know. So, okay, so what do we know about water? Well, you've learned contains an oxygen and two hydrogens. That you learn in the textbooks. We also know there are and these water molecules are So, we know that. Well, we don't know anything What do I mean by social? and chatting with your neighbor. We don't know how water molecules and also we don't know about How water molecules and also how water molecules like that purple one sitting there. Also the phases of water. We've all learned a liquid phase and a vapor phase. However, a hundred years ago, there was some idea somewhere in between a solid and a liquid. Sir William Hardy, a hundred years ago exactly, professed that there was actually and this water was kind of more ordered and in fact had a gel-like consistency. So, the question arose to us -- you know, all of this was forgotten, to begin to study molecules and people forgot about and began looking, the same as in biology, began looking at individual molecules So, we thought we're going to look at this because we had some idea that this missing link, this fourth phase, might actually be the missing link so that we can understand the phenomena So, we started by looking somewhere And the first experiments that we did We took a gel, that's the solid, And we added some particles to the water because we had the sense that particles And you can see is that the particles began between the gel and the water, and they just kept moving And they wound up stopping at a distance that's roughly the size Now, that may seem small, that's practically infinite. So, we began studying and we called it, for obvious reasons, because practically everything would get expelled or instead of exclusion zone, And so we found that that would create or nucleate not just gels, but we found or so-called hydrophilic surface creating the EZ water. And as the EZ water builds, or particles, whatever We began learning about properties, looking at the properties. And it looks something like this: You have a material next to water and and they build and build and So, if you look at the structure you can see that it's a honeycomb, a bit like ice, but not ice. And, if you look at it carefully, So, of course, it consists because it's built from water. But, actually, If you start counting and the number of oxygens, it turns out that it's not H2O. It's actually H3O2. So, it is possible that there's water So, we began looking, of course, more into And what we found is, if we stuck because we thought there might be it turned out that there's lots And we used some dyes and we found that in the bulk water zone So, what's going on? It looked like, the water molecule into a negative part and a positive part. And the negative part sat Positive charges went out beyond that. We found it's the same, you could also have a sphere. So, you put a sphere in the water, and develops one of these exclusion zones, beyond that is all the positive charge. It didn't have to be only you could put a droplet in there, or, in fact, even a bubble, Surrounding each one of these entities and the separated positive charge. So, here's a question for you. If you take two of these negatively and you drop them in a beaker of water what happens to the distance between them? I bet that 95% of you would say: Well, that's easy, I learned in physics, so, therefore they're going to go That what you'd guess? Well, the actual result is that it's not only the negative charge And the positive charge in between those two spheres, because they come from contributions So, there are a lot of them there. When you have positive what happens is that you get And so you expect these two spheres despite the fact that and that's exactly what happens. It's been known for for many years. They come together, and if you have you'll get something that looks like this. They'll come together and It's a stable structure. In fact, the yogurt that probably consists So, they come together The same thing is true They come together because of So, when you think of droplets, and think about the cloud, it's actually the reason that is because of this opposite charge. So, the droplets from the air, come together coalesce, So the fourth phase, or EZ phase, It explains, for example, the cloud. It's the positive charge that draws these negatively charged to give you a condensed cloud In terms of the water droplets, the reason that these are sustained for actually sometimes and you can see it if you're in a boat and it's raining, you can sometimes these droplets are sustained and the reason they're sustained is this EZ shell, in order for the water to coalesce Now, in terms of the Jesus Christ lizard, it's not because of but there are many EZ layers and these are gel-like, they're stiffer so, therefore, you can float a coin you can float a paperclip, although if put it beneath the surface it's because of that. And in terms of the water bridge, If you think of it as plain old, liquid, But if you think of it as EZ water then you can understand how it could be a very stiff structure. Okay, so, all well and good, What can we do with it? Well, we can get energy from water. In fact, the energy that we can get It's literally free. Let me explain. So, you have a situation in the diagram and when you have two opposing charges it's like battery. So, really we have And you can so that is right now. Batteries run down, like your cell phone and so the question is: Well, what charges It took us a while to figure that out, And one day, we're doing an experiment, and he has this lamp. And he takes the lamp and where the light was shining grew by leaps and bounds. So, we thought, aha, it looks like light, and we've many experiments to show, that the energy for building this It comes not only from the direct light, What do I mean by indirect light? Well, what I mean is is, for example, infrared light If we were to turn out all the lights, and I pulled out my infrared camera you'd see a very clear, bright image. And if I looked at the walls And the reason for that is that You're giving off infrared energy. That's the energy that's most effective in building this charge separation So, in other words you have the material, and you collect energy from outside, and as you collect the energy the exclusion zone builds. And if you a take away that extra energy, So, this battery is basically It's a gift from the sun. If you think about it, what's going on, if you think about the plant you're getting light, the energy comes from the light. It's the photons that hit the plant, And the plant converts it the light energy to chemical energy, is then used to do growth and metabolism That we all know, it's very common. What I'm suggesting to you is that the same thing happens in water. No surprise, because the plant suggesting to you that energy light energy, infrared energy, and the water is absorbing the energy and converting that energy And so we come to the equation E = H2O. A bit different from the equation But I think it really is true that water is a repository of energy Now can we harvest some of this energy, Well, we can do that because you have And if you put two electrodes in, Just like a battery. And we've done that for example, have It can be run from the energy And obviously we need to build it up in order to get the energy. This is free energy Another opportunity we've been developing is getting drinking -- If you have a hydrophilic material, and you put contaminated water next to it with junk that you want to get rid of -- So, what happens is, I've shown you, is that this stuff gets excluded and the remaining EZ So, you can put bacteria there, And because the exclusion zone is big, it's easy to extract the water And we've done that. And we're working on Well, one of the things we noticed is also excluded. So, we're now thinking about putting in ocean water. And you put the ocean water in, then you simply take the EZ water and you can get drinking water then So, getting biological energy. The cells are full of macromolecules, and each one these is a nucleating site So, around each one of these is EZ water. Now, the EZ water is negatively charged, so you have charge separation. And these separated charges to drive reactions inside your cells. So, what it means really is, that your cells are doing. The light is being absorbed, converted into charge separation, just the same that happens and these charges are used by you. One example of this, I mean the energy is coming in and it's absorbed by you, If you take a flashlight and you can actually see it through here, and you have many blood vessels especially capillaries near the periphery, and it's possible that some of this energy is used to help drive the blood flow. Let me explain that in a moment. What you see here is the microcirculation, and you can see a few capillaries And then these capillaries are A typical red blood cell looks like It's big, but when they actually flow, The reason they bend So, the vessel is sometimes They're going to squinch and go through. Now it requires quite a bit of energy and the question is: Does your heart that's necessary for driving this event? And what we found is a surprise. We found that if we take a hollow tube just like a straw, we found constant unending flow So, here's the experiment, and you can see We fill out the inside just to make sure put into the water and the water contains so we can detect And you look in the microscope unending flow through the tube. It can go on for a full day So, it's free; in a tube, no extra sources of energy So, if you think about the human, and think about the energy that's being it's possible that we may use to drive biological processes in a way So, what I presented to you for science and technology And the most important is is absorbed by the water, in terms of chemical potential. And this may be used for example, as in blood flow, but in many other contexts as well. And when you think of chemical reactions you just think of a molecule But what I've shown you is not just that, you have the particle, EZ, all of those need to be So, it may be necessary to reconsider for understanding these reactions that we've learned about Weather. The critical factor is charge. If you take a course in weather and such, you hear that the most critical factors Charge is almost not mentioned, despite the fact that you can see But charges may be much more important in giving us the kind of weather Health. When you're sick There may be more to that And in food, food is mostly water, we don't think of food as being water, If we want to understand how to freeze it, how to avoid dehydration, we must know something and we're beginning In terms of practical uses, and by the way, the desalination, where you need it most in dry areas. So, the energy for doing all this And for standard filtration as well, a very simple way of removing bacteria it could be actually quite cheap And finally, getting electricity through the sun's energy that comes in, So, I've tried to explain to you really understanding that water has And understanding the fourth phase, to unlock the door to the understanding And mostly, what we actually like most, is understanding Thank you very much. (Applause)