I have Kobe Bryant drawn here. Kobe Bryant the NBA Player It's interesting to see so many different people in Shibuya. There are a lot of people from different cultures. I don't accept everybody. Respect Thank you So much rain! It's good isn't it? I mean, that's all I really do, is cook. I want this shop to be the best. I can't do it alone, so I want to be all of us Good Morning. It's hot today. So we open at 5:00pm. So from now we will start prep. Just gotta get ready and open the shop. It's Saturday, so it's probably going to be busyg I And this still has carp and all kinds of stuff in it. I have Kobe Bryant here. Kobe Bryant. He's my favorite NBA player. I play ball so... And so I really liked him. Getting my head tattooed hurt the most. We usually run the shop with 7 or 8 people. Everyone is young. I'm only 27 myself. I feel like I'm just getting started. People come at 2:00, but we're open until morning. They all come at two, but we're open until morning. Everyone returns home around 7 or 6 in the morning. We're open until 4:00am We work closing from there. But some staff are coming from pretty far away, so... So it's a pretty tough gig for sure. Today's fish is pretty big. This is &quot;Katsuo&quot; I was born in Kochi, Shikoku. That's a little souvenir from Kochi up there. I left for Saitama when I was 18 years old I graduated from high school and worked at a factory in Saitama Did that for 3 years, but it wasn't very fun...I didn't really have any friends in Saitama. I had a part time job in Shibuya where my junior was working. So I was allowed to work there with him, and he introduced me to this line of work. From then on it was all Shibuya and working in this food and beverage industry. I didn't think there was anything else out there for me to do. Because not everyone prepares food like me, it feels like something special that I can do that no one else can. I'm not tall, and I'm not a handsome guy. But even someone like me can do something appealing by showing my own uniqueness through tattoos. I think that's a really positive thing. Even in Shibuya, there are all kinds of people, it's interesting. There's a lot of people from different cultures, a lot of people from abroad as well. I'm not trying to accommodate everybody, but... But there are a lot of ethnicities here. Even people like me with lots of tattoos. I think even with all these different types of people for the most part people really respect each other. And we also get a lot of international customers at this restaurant. If foreigners enjoy my cooking even though I look this way then that's a good thing. That's one of the reasons why I'd like to open this restaurant abroad someday. They tell me that my food is good, or that my tattoos are cool. It makes me think, I should try doing this abroad. I started to learn English this year. I really didn't understand anything at the beginning. I'm using books for Junior high students to learn English now. I didn't think I would need to learn English at all. But I've slowly changed my thinking on the topic. I think being able to speak is so important now. When I finish I study my English textbook at home by myself. Sometimes I work out a bit. I don't really go out or anything like that. I only spend time for work or for my future. I never go out at night. Hi, I'm Kuma. It looks like this. Hannya and Kappa I've only done one session for these so far. It's huge. It's very heavy. Kochi is famous for &quot;Katsuo&quot;, though this fish isn't form Kochi. Still... I have an affinity for this fish. Tataki, I like to make it in sashimi style. Or serve just Katsuo tataki by itself. Today's fish is really quite big. It's my routine. Well, it's a feeling I'm totally fine with working until morning. I'm used to it It's not over yet Keito, ice cream Is ice cream not your thing? Do you want some ice cream? I can't do without sugar in my diet, that's for sure. We're all going to be like that, right? Once you get in here. I didn't have any sweet tooth at all at first. I don't eat it when I start preparing dishes so I can accurately taste them, of course. When it's not prep time though, it's time to eat them now. We won't have time later. I love it. I eat a lot of chocolate. Good morning Everybody comes around this time. They really pull together. What time did you get up? Did you just get up? I just woke up Everyone is busy Keito, is right over there! Keito, are you okay? He's going to get soaking wet! This is bad, isn't it? Oh, no. What is this? Oh, my God. This is crazy! Bad, huh? No, no, no. Oh, it's pouring! I heard the thunder boom. Yeah I heard it too. You don't need to take video of me soaking wet! I was worried about you, for a change. Oh, really? Thank you. I was worried about you. Keito, How many does this make? Steak Salad Cold tofu Miso soup with pork and kimuchi Seriously, sometimes when I don't have time, it'll be something from a packet premade. I try to make something that's seasonal for people to eat. Itadakimasu! Delicious Now everyone can have a full belly. Whoever wants a smoke, can do it now too. Thank you. Good evening You have a reservation. Good evening. For the second floor! Second floor Excuse me. Chicken Nanban. Looks delicious Very tasty delicious Yum! Order up! Wow, that's nice. Looks good Bon appetit! And the tuna is delicious. It goes well with sake Delicious The seasoning is just right isn't it? That's right, I keep coming back. Because the food is so good. Reservation for three. Good evening Duck salad Sesame kanpachi Chicken Nanban, please Sashimi for two, please. This is for the course! Good evening Family. Family. Maybe we'll still be together 10 or 20 years from now, so I don't know in what way we will be together. I don't know what kind of image you have of us. But I think it's just that this is really the only thing that I'm doing right now. I think this is the only thing for me right now. It'll probably be something to do with cooking for sure. Definitely cooking. But I really want to be the best. With everyone's help. I can't do it on my own by myself. I want us all to be the best. I mean we all look the way we do, and there is nothing we can change about it now. I'm pretty sure my mom didn't want me to get covered in tattoos but, I hope I can give back to her some way in some different way. I think it would be nice. To my mother, father, and my siblings as well.