Reviewer: Queenie Lee It's 1903, and this extraordinary guy is standing on the edge At that time, people wanted and turn the Grand Canyon, in 1903, into a profit-making Disneyland And he stood and said no. And he created a tipping point and for the world. He said, &quot;Leave it as it is. The ages have been at work on it (Applause) The world would have been without those words, those tipping point words Fast forward, his fifth cousin, 30 years later, 1933, the Great Depression of America, said a few words to create a tipping point Franklin Roosevelt: First of all, that the only thing nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror, which paralyzes needed efforts Richard Greene: The world without those words, So, in my 30 years of studying I found that there are seven secrets that great speakers do, and it's my belief can be a great speaker, and that their words and that their words and their essence The first secret is about words and understanding the most amazing in the world, but they only actually touch people and communicate 7% of the impact Voice tone - the variation in your voice, the passion that comes Your body language: or are you looking over their head So words, voice tone, and body language, those are the three vehicles, that great communication happens in. Secret number four. What most people do trying to prove that they are smart, Words are the 7%. What's important is what is that one thing What is that headline? That's what we are talking about today. Secret number five is fascinating. If you are afraid - are any of you 41% of the world, across cultures, is terrified almost to the point, of actually turning down Whether they are political leaders, or business leaders, they turn down opportunities because they are scared. There are a lot of reasons but in my experience, is that we don't know We don't know the true definition. The true definition of public speaking is that public speaking is nothing more about something that you are If you think it's a performance, you are going to be 0% you and 100% actor, and we don't get to see So, I want you to write the word speech and I want you to put a circle around it, I don't want you ever, ever That's not what great speakers do. They don't give a speech; they don't make they have what? They have a conversation with. It's a circle. It brings us all together. We are a web, connected That's what great speakers do. When I first met Princess Diana, she looks me in the eyes and says, &quot;You know, I am so scared and I wish that I could do Now, this was when they so it was even more difficult And I said, &quot;What does he do?&quot; &quot;Well, he just stands up there, and then he moves on, And I told her that Prince Charles And what she had, was what touched People connected with her And all you need to do, is just share from your heart, and your gut, and people will love you. Even through the speech that scares you, they will feel you; they will know you; That's far more effective than telling a funny joke So, secret number six - and you'll notice this is that we actually Those five different senses - seeing, hearing, smelling, translate into four different actual Speak one of them, Speak two of them, you'll be average, Speak all four, no matter who you are, Because you're going to be giving something that they can connect to. And visual is the energy; It's Robin Williams - and I'm going to continue How amazing was Robin Williams. Auditory is the ability to translate what you think, what you feel Ronald Reagan was a great example of that. Auditory/Digital, that's The analytical, statistically If you don't have that, you don't have People go, &quot;Wow, but there is no there there.&quot; Kinesthetic is the James Earl Jones, Oh, baby ... (Laughter) It's the poet Ali. It's that connecting thing that is inside that is the most important thing, in being a communicator. And then seven, you can just and you will still rock the world. As so many people do. And that is your authentic passion. What is it that is so effing cool or so effing compelling? And I use that middle word, because it's a visceral thing, So let's go back on our that have created Now this person, Lou Gehrig, in terms of the global but he created a tipping point in terms of understanding Here it was, as you all know, He tried to play, couldn't play. He had to end his career, Lou Gehrig day, it was in 1939. He gets out there. He, like so many of you, And he is there; he is there, and then, just when it's time He said, &quot;I can't do this. His manager comes up to him, &quot;Lou, they're all here for you, And walks him up and he goes, Lou Gehrig: Today, I consider myself the luckiest man RG: Everyone who studies public speaking It's just unbelievable, the sense in the middle of his own personal crisis. But let's go to the next year. A huge tipping point and their battle against Nazi Germany. Three days before the speech, and says, &quot;Please, I want you We've got to do something; And this is Winston Churchill. They didn't have the video Winston Churchill: In stage of the house, and I said to those I have nothing to offer RG: The world would without Winston Churchill and those words, and that level of conviction, Let's move forward now. I have three from John F. Kennedy, This one, you all know about. He was following an old general, He is in his 40s, a whole new era You'll be familiar with the first part John F. Kennedy: My fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country. (Cheering) (Applause) RG: He continues. JFK: My fellow citizens of the world, ask not what America will do for you but what together we can do (Cheering) (Applause) RG: The world became a different place because of that speech And he proved it several times, he is talking about his authentic passion: put a man on the moon. Listen to the level of detail here, and notice that this that he even commits himself when we don't even at that point JFK: We shall send to the moon, 240,000 miles away from the control station in Houston, a giant rocket, more than 300 feet tall, the length of this football field, made of new metal alloys, some of which have not yet been invented, capable of standing heat and stress, several times more fitted together with a precision carrying all the equipment needed for propulsion, guidance, control, on an untried mission, and then return it safely to earth, re-entering the atmosphere causing heat about half that almost as hot as it is here today, and do all this, and do it right, and do it first before this decade is out, then we must be bold. RG: How amazing was that? Sadly, he didn't get to live to see that. But he made it happen and creating that tipping point And then, as you know, The West Berliners are suffering mightily. He goes in and says they're not alone. JFK: All free men, wherever they may live, as citizens of Berlin, and therefore as a free man, I take pride in the words: (Cheering) (Applause) RG: OK, so, next year after that, Dr. Martin Luther King, no one would doubt that this speech, ad-libbed this speech, shook the world Martin Luther King: I have a dream (Applause) that my four little children where they will not be judged but by the content of their character. I have a dream today. (Cheering) (Applause) RG: If only it were true, and we're making progress Barbara Jordan, someone you may not know, was the last person to speak talking about whether we, in fact, She was a freshman congresswoman; and yet, her words with that incredible shook the world and catalyzed Barbara Jordan: Today, I am an inquisitor, and hyperbole would not be fictional and would not overstate My faith in the Constitution is whole; And I am not going to sit here to the diminution, the subversion, the destruction of the Constitution. RG: Barack Obama. BO: Tonight is a particular honor for me my presence on this stage RG: And that's it, right there, It changed America, that one speech in 2004 We don't have audio of this. But one of my favorite speeches ever He says: the most beautiful and deepest is the sense of the mysterious. To sense that behind anything there is a something and whose beauty and simplicity To me, it suffices and to attempt humbly a mere image of the lofty structure And he did that and created a shift, where we understood and created a new paradigm, that it mirrors this ancient symbol If you look at it, there is a backward E, there is an equal sign, there is an M, there is a C, and there is a supernumerary E=MC2, thousands of years ago, reflected in Albert Einstein's I want to play this, in my opinion this is the most powerful recorded tipping-point speech making Feel it and notice, this is the last speech He died, and it was obvious he knew it, MLK: Like anybody, I would like to live, a long life, longevity has its place. But I'm not concerned about that now. I just want to do God's will. And He's allowed me And I've looked over, and I've seen the promised land. I may not get there with you, that we as a people, (Cheering) (Applause) So I'm happy, tonight. I'm not worried about anything; My eyes have seen the glory RG: So, are you afraid of public speaking? If so, you're along with The way over that is to see it and to ask yourself this one question: What is my Dharma? What is it that I am passionate about Something that my unique DNA, which is contained in every one carried in 50,000 atomic bombs that's what Einstein said, will allow me to be out in the world, and give speeches, share my passion, Every single person I've worked with to break through, to make the world a better place, and to create a tipping point that will and indeed, make the world a better place. And I encourage you, share your passion, and make that difference. Thank you all so much. (Applause) (Cheering)