Cogito, ergo swim? Today on Michael's Toys, we're going to Rene Descartes. It's a very cool thing that you can build You will need enough water to fill a squeezable lid, four sugar cubes, four paper clips, at two different colors of vinyl electrical tape, packets, a small metal bowl, and a in a dish of salt at least overnight. A full list of all of these materials can Step one is to uncap our plastic bottle. This will contain the ocean that our cartesian diver explores. Our diver will be a ketchup packet. Now you could use a packet of any other kind I find that ketchup works the best. Ketchup, it's perfect. So what we're gonna do is squeeze up the the bottle. Plop! Perfect. Now that our diver is in there let's give I will put the bottle in this little bowl Let's see if I have enough water. Perfect. Alright. Now make sure the cap goes on very very tightly. Perfect. Okay. Now here we go. Let's dry this off and get ready to dive. So our ketchup packet is floating in the bottle. Floating up towards the top. But for how long? Watch this. Watch what happens when I squeeze the bottle. Not so floaty now are you? But if I stop squeezing, it floats back up I can not only make it sink but I can make by applying the right amount of pressure to I can send it to the bottom with a strong and free it to the top by simply loosening my grip. It's enough to make anyone go Oh boy!...ancy. When an object is immersed in a fluid whether by that fluid on the object because the object that fluid. Now getting bombarded by a single molecule trillions. That could cause some pretty large pressure. But here's the thing, the actual magnitude by a fluid's molecule increases the deeper of all the fluid above it. Which means when you're submerged in air is greater than the pressure from above so pushing you down are weaker in total than Now the difference is a net force up and that But how strong is the buoyant force on an object in a fluid? Well take a look at this ketchup packet. Alright it is surrounded by water. But if it wasn't in this bottle what would be in its place? Well just water. Water would be filling that volume. The water of volume the exact same size and shape as that ketchup packet would be there and what would that volume of water be doing? Would it be sinking or floating? No. So there ya go. The weight of that parcel of water equal in volume to this packet would be equal and opposite the buoyant force pushing in the other direction. So it would stay where it is and not sink or float. This observation is known as Archimedes' principle. The buoyant force on an object is equal in weight to the volume of water it displaces by being in that fluid. In the case of this ketchup packet the packet has a smaller weight than an equal volume of water so the buoyant force wins out and the packet floats. But not for long because inside almost all sauce packets there's a little bit of air and air is much easier to compress than sauce or water so when I squeeze the bottle The water pressure inside the bottle goes up and all the air in that packet compresses. It gets smaller. Which means the volume of the packet gets smaller. But its weight stays the same so all of a sudden we're talking about a smaller volume with the same weight. That's more dense. Denser things sink. When I release my squeeze the buoyant force becomes once again stronger than the weight force because the volume of the packet increases. Because the air that is right now compressed expands back. The ketchup packet takes up more space. Enough space that an equal volume of water would weigh more. Therefore the buoyant force moves it up. So go ahead and try to build one of these at home and try out different kinds of sauces. I have found that packets of ketchup work out the best. I find that soy sauce packets, I've got one right here They just sink right away. They are too dense. Hot sauce packets from Taco Bell have the opposite problem They float too well. Put one in, it'll float and no matter how hard I squeeze I can't get it to fall. Maybe you're strong enough. Try it out. It's called an experiment. Thank you science. I find that not all ketchup brands work equally well though. I have some oh yeah so these Heinz packets, they also float too well. If your packet sinks right away it might just be on the edge and if you add some salt to your water you may be able to get that packet to float because adding salt increases the buoyant force of the fluid in your bottle. But I gotta tell you I've made dozens of these in my life and I always find that ketchup is the safest bet. Watch this. Are you guys watching? wait watch...hold on watch this. And as always, thanks for watching.