- Hey there, sweetheart. And what's up, singers? This is Cheryl Porter, singer And today, I wanna share that you are damaging your voice. So if you're a singer, or any professional voice Number eight, being hoarse If you wake up hoarse in the that's a clear sign that your The only reason why most singers who suffer from chronic hoarseness haven't experienced any is only because they to rest after every show. But when a singer or speaker goes on tour and they suddenly find themselves from doing two shows a that's when we see a lot of because of nodes, polyps, This vocal cord damage but that vocal abuse was always going on and no amount of steaming, no amount of essential oils to fix the underlying problem that you are damaging your voice. Don't ignore your hoarseness. Check in with your voice doctor and fix those underlying technical flaws. Number seven, your If there is one thing that it's resistant. When I watch singers train online, I notice that a lot of singers but not skill, targeted vocal workouts. That means that most singers are just but not doing specific exercises My darling, you're supposed to be able to sing or speak for two, without getting tired or hoarse. Remember, you're a vocal athlete and you gotta keep that Make sure that you put in into your vocal training, not just vocal warmups but some stamina exercises. Start doing your vocal exercises while running if you want to, and don't forget to warm up Number six, your vibrato About three years ago, I was about to start my Lion King tour. It was the toughest I was coaching sometimes 12 hours a day. In the studio, I created my doing concerts like I'm gonna be honest, I needed the money, y'all, and I needed the work like all singers do. But I noticed that my vibrato, especially in my chest register, was getting kind of shaky, would be like Hallelujah instead of Hallelujah It was shaky like Hallelujah You can hear that shaking, right? So the frequencies were off and I could not control my vibrato. It was driving me crazy. I checked in with my voice doctor, and sure enough, he found and that's what was preventing my cords from vibrating correctly. So baby, if you notice even that's a clear sign that and you need to get get it checked out by your voice doctor immediately. Number five, timbre changes. Your voice gets darker and raspy. Every singer and speaker knows what their voice is supposed to sound like and every voice matures But if you hear a sudden or especially if it becomes suddenly darker or suddenly really raspy, that's a clear sign that Like I said before, be aware, listen but keep in mind can also be hormonal imbalance during that time of the month, But any persistent that you need to check and get to the root of Number four, inability to sing softly. So listen to this. Let the storm rage on Let the storm rage on If you can't sing Pianissimo and you can only sing Fortissimo that's a clear sign that you in the long term. Please check your dynamics often. Number three, constant cracking. (Meryl laughs hysterically) We gotta keep that in the video. That's so funny. If you can't hold a note without cracking, yep, you guessed it, it's a problem. I know a lot of singers that they crack a lot. I know a lot of those singers. And of course, singers and But if you are cracking a lot, or if you can't sing a baby, that is a sign that overusing your throat, and it can cause some in the long run. Cracking is a clear sign that you lack that basic vocal support, but that too can also be just hormonal like boys doing that the brain has difficulty But if your voice just do some vocal exercises breathing exercises with longer phrasing to improve your vocal Number two, loss of high notes or difficulty changing vocal register. So you are on a stage, you're singing that song that You are about to kill it, baby. The house is packed. You're about to deliver that note that everybody has been waiting for. You can feel it coming. The band is doing a great crescendo and it's time to let that The audience is going crazy. You brought the house But when you get back you realize that you got a a little tingle, a little cough, and hitting that note feels so much harder than it did before. When you start losing your It might be something really a swelling, a small growth of tissue. But please, sweetheart, don't wait. Go to your voice doctor and they're gonna help Voice changes, they occur with age, but if you notice a sudden change or a sudden loss in your you've got to get to So before I reveal the number one sign that you may be damaging your voice, I want you guys to check that I created especially for you guys to help singers develop their voices so they can avoid all of these problems that we are talking about. Remember, 90% of all which means that you can if you know what to look out for. Use a coupon code, &quot;I Love My Voice&quot; to get an extra $10 off any of my courses. And the number one sign that you may be damaging your I've said it before and I'll say it again. Singing is not supposed to hurt. Pain is your body's way of telling you that there is a threat to your safety. If you are singing and or a stinging or a pulling then you gotta know that Listen to what your voice I'm so frustrated with this taboo surrounding vocal issues when you know that something is wrong. And I really hope that to stop ignoring pain. Don't be afraid to go They are there to help I'm not here to judge you either. I love you and I want you to make a difference and because believe me, there is Thank you so much to my for being such an enormous And thank you to all the professional for your incredible work to help singers like me I am so sad to go now because I love you guys. Thanks for watching this video - [Staff 1] Aww. (Staff 2 laughing) - Aww. I am sad. (Staff clapping) I miss them already. (Staff laughing)