It's getting harder and harder to make these go all out this time. To be honest Magnus, I think but it's actually kind of funny. Unfortunately as the person he hates the most. I actually don't searched high and low all over the UK to find so that he's less likely to know who I am. looking also a YouTuber is making a video where his German done a collaboration before and people don't even climb I can't act like a total beginner, because to show them that I master the basics and since before this video I even put out an Instagram Have you climbed before? Many years ago, yeah. Yeah? Did you do it outdoors or indoors? I climb in the Frankenjura many years ago. Oh, very good yeah nice! It's quite scary that, isn't it? yeah it's. It's a far between the bolts you know. Yeah, well Frankenjura? Yeah I have. Run him through like well try and climb stuff I guess. So uh Freeederick? Fred... all right yeah I got it. Do you remember how that okay? All right. So are you a good climber I've done bits in the Frankenjura, yeah about Kurt Albert and stuff? Yeah. Yeah? Would you show me first of all you Cheers okay, let me look, oh man after the bowline that's no problem. Most of the time when we teach knots we teach the double figure of eight, but actually I find that not quite annoying. This is what we used So I just want you to imagine that you're Fine okay. Do you know what a back clip is? I think technically that's um like a I have the wall to the floor okay that's that's fine no worries, I'm sure you won't do Do you know what an auto-belay is? No. Okay I'll rope isn't it? Yes we call those uh Tails. Oh, okay. climbing shoes can be kind of tight. What sort of I think.. I think they were higher. They were All right, looking stylish! This The Wave. Okay. Uh it was it was made to And well the idea is you're going to be following one color. Okay? Okay. Well we'll do some of this later if you like, but this is bouldering. Uh bouldering is.. you know what bouldering is? It's climbing without a rope. I heard the word before, but I never bouldered. But this was made about 30 years ago when bouldering was beginning, Jerry Moffatt, Ben Moon... You had other beasts like Malcolm Smith and guys was supposed to be similar to the Limestone In Germany we would call this the wall you Haha no they weren't. No? They did some pretty hard trad. But um I would say.. I don't have enough knowledge good you know. You know who Messner is? Yeah Reinhold Messner yeah. He climbed big mountains. Can you show me how you would set up a rope, so that someone else is ready to climb. Where would you set up the rope? I would set it up here. Yeah, perfect and because I'm not going to be belaying you, but I Here we go. So? Are you gonna belay me or? No, so this is an autobelay. I can demonstrate to you how it works if you like. Basically all you got to do oh that's it are you sure about that? Here we go. Try and just stick to the whites There you go. Now get your clip here Frederick. That's it, clip that quick draw in front of you! Yeah nice one! You're sure it's gonna hold me? Try and swap your feet maybe.. uh other side of to get your legs behind the rope. Yes, good man! All right not bad. See there's that like drop when split second where it feels like there's it was okay. Every clip was correct there was that one time where you, uh when you were matching feet. Yes. so that's a problem if you fall off in that position because you don't want your leg to get caught in the rope. At least when I said; what I meant and like yeah you Did you have these in the old days? Autobelays? Yeah. Never no. Do you think he has any idea, I mean he's smiling a lot and stuff but I think it's just Cool, I'm rolling. Okay you are you happy going up Yeah yeah, the purple and orange spots. Can You've obviously forgotten your technique after duck feet. So you see the toe of your shoes? This that you have that on the foothold. Okay. Not wall is? This can't be more than. Ungefahr 10 meters? I'm Go up one Higher and then maybe get your clip. There you go! Yeah good man, that's really good! Sweet yeah, there you go nice one! Go on Frederick you got it. That's it! Better footwork. Yeah go on. Come on, you got it. There you go nice one dude. Nice dude, go on you got this! Good effort, well done! How's the fall, It was a little bit scary I was just so.. Yeah the elbows were going up like a chicken.. first you were a duck and then you were a chicken. The pink ones yeah. They're pretty accessible it's probably easier but just a bit more psychological. That pink one looks good. Yeah. if you climbed in the Frankenjura you must be psychologically tough? It was also top-rope, so it was not so scary. Nice one dude. Oh you watch that left leg. There you go! Nice one! You got a foothold.. uh you can swap hands go, come on dude! Yeah, nice one! You got a foothold Come on big hold above your right hand. That's it, there you go come on keep going! Go on, that's it, nice one keep going and then There you go, that's it come on! Nice one, that's it you're sorted now. Come on Come on Frederick, that's it. Get your clip if you can there Frederick. Nice one. That is a major &quot;whanger&quot;, that's the that's good, it doesn't get any worse than that. almost think I will die you know. I was just coming to closer. So a whip is a fall, but like a big whip Not sure I've taken a full that big, basically you've got less to live for. I suppose yeah. You're strong for 73. You're in good shape. Thank you! Okay so you're obviously not worried about falling. This yellow here, or we call the holds are really big so it's all big jugs, Yeah? Make sure though, when you step on the holds that you really put pressure through the feet. Okay because you don't want to cut be.. Have you ever heard the word campusing before? campus board. Especially in the mountains you mountain stuff have you done? Rope stuff, or just a new thing you know. I'd never tried it when around since the 40's, yeah but then no one did it They used Via Ferrata's to like cross the mountains during like World War II. I'm pretty sure. Okay. I heard some Italian guy was telling me those stories. I just see people, you know with helmets and harness, They're not climbers no. Try and keep those A little bit more precise with the foot placements, Yeah! Nice, looking good! There you That's it, feet back on, there you go! That's it come on move quick! That's There you go, feet higher, feet back on, come on It's so demotivating you know, because I used just feels so hard. What are you talking about, the roof that's not bad at all. And you cut loose Nah, that was good man, I think that was great. Okay. I think that was really good. You seem a bit annoyed? I just don't like falling you know. Back in the days this would be easy for me. If you're not falling you're not trying. That's the old school mentality. They never fell off. All the trad you want to try a new route, you can go on a new fingers are still very strong. Yeah? I think my body okay so.. give us a look at your fingers. Crimp! That's it pull, pull that's pretty strong! Yeah that looks good, all right so you don't mind the holds being smaller? No. All right, okay. You can check out the blue 6c+? It's pretty soft as far as The Foundry goes. ever had in a in a in a first lead session definitely yeah. Wow. Yeah you're taking some big ones it's good to see. It's uh maybe not a bit too much for me I think I'm gonna make you redo that. So you keep your arms straighter for this one okay? Okay. Because your arms are super bent now I'm sure you're very strong right so I'm sure you're biceps.. I'm so not you cut loose at least about three or four times, your But you need to be efficient and sometimes it's give it a little shake, as if you have some yogurt have some yogurt on the end of your fingers you're said that. I mean if your fingers are quite strong And then it'll be the the roof that will get Really good! That's it get your clip if you can there. Come Come on, fight through! Come on Frederick yeah yeah Come on don't be a . That's it, Whoa! I think for me it had helps screaming you know. feel my arms, I have no feeling in my arms. I like that cut loose at the top, looked very cool. Yeah, you got that for the movie? I got it. Would you like harder? Yeah maybe could try with magnesium, forgot to get you the chalk. I'll get you a chalk bag for your next one. Yeah thanks. Oh nice, you skipped the clip at the top, excellent. It's shouldn't clip that one on the head wall, it's a psychologically far ahead of the people I teach, so you just charge past. no problem at all. Beast. All right um do you want tea or those weird Brits that doesn't drink hot drinks. You need to push your beard back on a little, and I'm here too. So I think he knows something is up, but I don't think he knows exactly what's up. Well he's taking some massive It actually is good funny, he's skipped a bolt and clipped like he You think it's good this one? You could try you you get on, like uh. Yeah I think you have a very good attitude to climbing, you know you try very hard so it would be interesting to see if we put you on something super difficult how you get on. Okay. um maybe the black tufas. 7c+?.. oh yeah I don't know what that translates to in German. No cutting loose though on this not be able to hold the swing even though up there you're off probably. Okay, so try Looks good, control your breathing, you got this! nice That's it, smashing it! Ah! Nice one. Oh cheeky knee, good to see! Come on! Yeah really good come on. Easy nice. Yeah good, come on! Come on, all right that's it nice! Very smooth. Beautiful! You made that look really a little bit of a while to remember how I used Days of your alpine 7c+ on sights? Compared to the old days, yeah that's it. It's like Johnny Dawes kind of says you know all the the modern climbers they're not like you.. the guys of old. It's like Josh. Yeah, like Josh look at him he's not hardened by the mountains like you. Yeah. That's what You on sight 7c+ in the gym easily. So have you Uh let me think, there is this Spanish guy do you about 61 and did like 8b+ there a couple So you're not as good as him unless you do this Challenge him for the Throne of That looks very hard huh. Maybe I try it huh? Yeah you try it yeah, you'd make us all look like punters if you onsighted this. It's the hardest we have to offer. everything being too easy. All right you smash .... before you die. Before you die haha Yeah good, sick! That's it come on, really good. That's it, sweet. Oh swee, come on really good! Sweet, nice one. Really good. That's it. That's it, smashing it come on. Come on Frederick, that's it really good It's too hard for an old man you But if this was 20 years Why laughing? I would do easily. I'm sure you That was a good effort. It seemed like you yeah but it was good I had a great time I really enjoyed it. Going through all this you know I was three hours in makeup. Hahaha I enjoyed your massive falls as well, that's you didn't seem to be scared at This guy knows that something's up. How could you tell? I don't know, um you don't look that different, I mean you look different it's a good disguise, I don't know I could kind of We couldn't fool him, you played along though going with it. Yeah it was it was good fun. And no please please don't make me try that. As if I the 7c+ oh. I was really interested to see really keen to see where you'd make it. I mean if shoes and stuff yeah I think uh I could do pretty they say it's more like 8c or something. Okay. I mean I'm like I can't do it but yeah that's what I've heard off the strong people. Okay well Well thank you guys for watching, make sure to like