If you're anything like me, Call of Duty hasn't you probably remember the nights you spent wasting or arguing with strangers in Search and Destroy Before Modern Warfare 2019 effectively CoD was one of the most beloved and controversial some franchises would only dream of and it feel like new Call of Duty's are unable just Skill-Based Matchmaking but is something My first memory of Call of Duty goes back to and hanging out with my older brother watching him Modern Warfare. I still distinctly remember being it "The Most Photorealistic Game They've what I was seeing watching my brother missions of all time "All Ghillied Up". my brother's free time was being spent friends. I was just a dumb 5-year-old and I could be playing brother. It seemed so fun and so my brother would yell from across the house. setting. It was a breath of fresh air not just time most FPS games were either WW2 shooters modern setting first, but Call of Duty did it which at the time was thought to be impossible. multiplayer. It introduced create-a-class and equip special perks to help you in battle. In were to go on a kill-streak, you'd be rewarded strike and 7 is an attack helicopter. These and enable you to do better. On top of all of this kept players coming back. This game was insanely Something we don't often say about Call of Duty. on a controller that was actually plugged it was a game made by CoD 4 developer Infinity the guys that made those old Spider-Man games World at War was a true war game. It didn't movie where you were the hero. It took the tragedy was a Call of Duty that just overall felt like video with the menu music for the game which was game where the monsters look just like you". of this game but the campaign was iconic. I'll and being immediately plopped into N*zi Zombies. Something about this game had me drawn to it REAL Call of Duty that I actually played, fanboy - and rightfully so. Everything about this Treyarch's second attempt at a Call of Duty title. from the fans' perspective at the time, in step back when it returned to the WW2 setting, CoD games. Luckily, Call of Duty itself 2009-2010 with the release of Modern Warfare 2. be a terrorist and kill people. Take a look.&quot; MW2 is still to this day considered one of, The campaign had led to a lot of controversy mission. But the games multiplayer was especially being able to pick which three killstreaks you'd in this game capped off with game-ending Tactical Progression was also better with the prestige with different perks to unlock "pro" versions This was the period when there'd be hundreds of on the game and it was a formative time for the booms of some different playstyles and content FaZe clan, trickshotting, and sniping culture was lot of people just posting impressive gameplay or people like Sandy Ravage, who eventually had a xJawz, Whiteboy7thst, and SeaNanners. The infamous one man army noob tube exploit that people and made getting mad at the game a this is the first CoD where it seemed like but the audio was still going thru the TV in the of the craziest arguments, different types of [MW2 lobby argument] It started to seem like Call of Duty was making hit after hit after hit. At this point, it acclaimed releases. And a fourth was on the way. and is still to this day the highest selling Call fact that it successfully implemented all of while sprinkling in some signature Treyarch to the midnight release for Black Ops at my in his beat up Nissan Altima. The line went the air for what I would later consider The community as a whole, aside from some an amazing campaign, advanced the zombies story and had an addictive multiplayer to keep players the community by introducing community-focused and the first ever theater mode in CoD history. the soundtrack was world-class and streaks were mention the maps? Black Ops had some of the most Firing Range, Summit, Jungle, Launch, WMD, and always going to hold a special place in my heart. start to see Call of Duty burnout start to affect talk in detail about Modern Warfare 3, because I I wasn't a huge fan and I wasn't alone. I found talking about how it feels like the game wasn't all about money, they're just throwing out pretty changes to make it look like a different game". creators of the Modern Warfare series at with Activison. Jason West and Vince Zampella of contract. Activision basically claimed that a studio with the company. West and Zampella paying substantial royalties that were owed those two and MANY other key figures at Infinity for a bucketload of money. They ended up founding Titanfall series and Eventually Apex Legends. So issues and ...less than interesting map design and you about game from CoD's 2007-2013 prime. I will say up the pieces left by the Infinity Ward after their implosion. yes just one year before the xbox one finally able to play CoD whenever I wanted. Coincidentally, this is when my favorite Call of Duty of all time came out Black Ops 2 released on November 12th, 2012, just one month before the world ended. was the PERFECT game for the community, both when gaming DOMINATED YouTube, and during BO2's At this point, all the separate communities were excelling at This was also one of the best sniping games of all time and trickshots, and montages that you'll ever see. classes were given the now iconic "pick 10" introducing some of the most memorable and iconic Standoff, Raid, Slums, Yemen,.... Not Cargo just to name a few. BO2 was also the in the distant future of 2025- man. But it matched its unique setting. On top of all of its most entertaining. Treyarch built the game to to digest and understand with brand new tools Black Ops 2 was when I developed a love for gun, I would do things like knife, Ninja Defuse, me and some friends tried to do the Hidden Masters one simple reason: Treyarch seemed to know exactly everyone in saying they definitely delivered in the end. After GTA 5 and it's online had come out in the fall of 2013, most people were hoping that the next call of duty would be half as fun as black ops 2. Unfortunately the next game was Ghosts. reasons that people didn't like Call of Duty maps being too big, awful color palette (i mean issues. Most people didn't care for the game Prior to Ghosts, a lot of the criticisms of the same. The actual players know this wasn't completely point and shoot games at their core. At the time, each had some DLC maps, with some buffs or nerfs to But that was really the extent of the change or innovation So in 2014, Activision gave the studio that helped infinity at making their very own Call of Duty game. And Just what that was wasn't quite revealed until Ok yeah this game is VERY different. call of duty, pushed it much further into and special abilities for the first time in CoD and for a lot of those people this was seen as too with my friends. The multiplayer was awesome and But Advanced Warfare also introduced go on to despise. One upfront, and the others, came the supply drop era of Call of Duty. These that enabled you to fully customize almost It would've been great if they stopped it there which you'd earn through gameplay after some variants of the weapons in the game such as the and the MORS quickbolt. Some of the weapons had any other variant including the default ones. rest of the playerbase who didn't possess a real chance of NEVER earning these variants &quot;Alright next supply drop here we go. What are we gonna get?&quot; *stunned silence* &quot;A pair of F*CKING PANTS&quot; But you could increase your chances by purchasing example of pay to win or at least pay to play better. brought to the franchise that everyone with noticeable Skill-Based Matchmaking. It but most people who played CoD had moved back to for 2015's Black Ops 3 so it really didn't matter. Duty and it was actually met with great deal wasn't common at the time and it managed to Once the game had released players were treated to a was finally worthy of the "next-gen" title people praised Treyarch only having cosmetics but it wouldn't last very long as Treyarch would I personally didn't see many problems with lifecycle. I really enjoyed the multiplayer Zombies fan I was always meant to praised as the best CoD Zombies game and it's got boring to me, I'd just play zombies. Advanced Wafare's in the sense that it was more were all sorts of advanced movement techniques and you could practice getting the hang of it And I actually almost entirely forgot to mention or heroes. Each specialist had a lethal weapon or BO3. I didn't find it to ever mess up the natural impressive for a first attempt. I'd say it was a solid and memorable game, but locked behind supply drops definitely sucked. Like I said on why the community didn't stay with BO3 for What I do remember is that in mid 2016, there was a plea from the community for and advanced movement in general. People they wanted CoD to return to its roots. So what Infinite Warfare. This trailer would eventually youtube. All because it featured a huge leap into robots, and you guessed it advanced movement. Nobody was excited to play Infinite Warfare. remaster of CoD: Modern Warfare to release way to obtain it was to order the deluxe Call of Duty really took a hit here. 2016 shooter games were popping off at the same time Battlefield had released one of their best games seen as the good guy with Infinite Warfare to mention 2016 was the year of Overwatch! Infinite Warfare. I'm not gonna sit here and even reach level 10. What I do know is it just That's why everyone I knew was grinding MWR. and were playing games like Battlefield. I was was my chance to play CoD 4 with the community completely faithful to the original game until December when they introduced the supply supply drops were done in MWR. I won't bother could earn EVERYTHING including weapons through the only thing that stood between you and a But I don't want to go on talking too much about the year. Moral of the story, Infinite Warfare wanted and we started to see the community The CoD community as it was known from 2007-2013 games. It Warfare and even with Black Ops 3. But Infinite fanbase. CoD Ghosts was the last game that displayed was something CoD used to flex their dominance, it felt like they were now embarrassed by 2017 felt like a make or break year for Call of quote unquote jetpack CoD and many had moved was released in march 2017 and that came almost Kill. We finally had the technology to have these one of the most popular sub-genres in the shooter generating for CoD 2017. There were rumors that style and that was all confirmed when in April to the tune of 1 Million likes. Pretty much the The CoD WWII beta was released in late August right before yet another Battle Royale game came There were too many make-or-break. One thing I will say is streaks were fun, but the costs for everything was way too high There was the headquarters social area that was immediately because it was broken for a good game was buggy, and aside from basic dopamine-hit fans to sink their teeth into for the whole year. They actually did make this game one of the and months after launch, but it was too late. the war.. Fortnite came out and ..it was a battle On top of already having a unique and appealing by adding a building mechanic. If you were around it as "PUBG mixed with Minecraft". It's not well enough for people to hop on the game because players. By the end of 2018 Fortnite would I'm sure it helped that the game was free but air. My brother, who had quit after Black Ops 2, wanted to play Fortnite with me because I was better at building than he was. The where a game was doing something that was already few fresh and innovative features (building). that would go on to make waves in gaming as a the game was free, the only way for Epic Games a lot that the way they did it wasn't as scummy Star Wars Battlefront 2 were in controversies for boxes, Fortnite simply had a cosmetic-only A variety of these factors mixed in with the THE game of 2018, and since you're alive in 2024, games of all time. All of this to say, Call and conceded it to a game with a much brighter I could talk about the release of Black Ops 4 announced it's very own battle royale. I could axing it's campaign in favor of a battle royale. the fact that the game itself and Activision's of the same Call of Duty multiplayer formula. that would receive massive game changing updates and connecting with the community. Despite CoD trying to capitalize on the battle royale genre, Fortnite had the perfect become a frequent Fortnite player, but I put Modern Warfare 2019. I talked at the beginning of this video about this game as being a turning point for Call of Duty and I said that because it was in a lot of ways. For starters, the condition the game dropped in was very unfinished. It almost felt like a beta. There were only 7 traditional 6v6 maps and some fan-favorite crucial game modes like Hardpoint and Kill Confirmed were missing. I launching unfinished with minimal content, way Fortnite did. The problem with this, is with to the base game. With games like this one or even the start. And it would've been there from the were plenty of other things that were in EVERY went missing but I can't begin to name them all. require a little more explanation. By the and I'm only saying bad things, but this video the good things about MW2019 u can find them here. me was map design. In the leadup to the game Treyarch and Sledgehammer's design philosophy for the traditional, FUN, call of duty experience. formless. I get that a big aspect of this game was always make for fun or engaging gameplay. these maps is that they almost encouraged Call of Duty with opening and closing doors menu item would clog arteries. There were so many and on top of that footsteps were BOOMING in call outs that the enemy team could hear, rushing and many started camping. It felt like and for a lot of people that only way to beat campers was to join them. Pair this with the super claymores from when the game launched, and the super overpowered 725 and I think this is the worst thing to happen to be me in 2019. and I got cancer in 2019. This was the game that introduced Engagement I'll try my best to not spend much time on it as everyone else has discussed in at nauseum but what I will say is: While I despise it. While I think it has And while I think it killed alternate playstyles for casuals like knifing or sniping for casuals like me I understand why it exists. We've established that the Hardcore Call of Duty fanbase has given up on CoD numerous times. We've also established that the hardcore Call of Duty fanbase is way smaller than it used to be. What's larger than the hardcore Call of Duty fanbase? Well, everybody. and I don't mean that in a condescending way I'm being serious. There are more people that haven't played CoD than who have so why not optimize the game just for them? If a new player hops in and drops a ton of kills and satisfying killstreaks because their lobbies are filled with recruit bots, they'll stay on the game for longer and potentially get hooked. And once a new player becomes invested enough from their success and engagement what will they do? They'll or battle passes...IN an ALREADY $70 GAME. player. Not just new ones. In every CoD since turned the once casual arcade shooter into on it for as long as possible. The focus games that are fun, build the community, and leave drain as many dollars as it can from anyone that Treyarch released Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold couple weeks, but I quickly got annoyed with I could no longer do the things I enjoyed like His forbid I tried to ninja defuse. If I wasn't and every single game, I would get pummeled lobby. Cold War was the last CoD I played. This video may have felt a lot like summary of events or a timeline. But much of what I've discussed and covered was crucial to understanding how Call of Duty got to where it is. revolutionizing the FPS genre. Games like Modern new heights. Black Ops 2 felt like OG Call pushed the community to all time peaks. It's year started to show Activision that we as fans on Cod Ghosts. The community asked for innovation Advanced Warfare. Not only did AW revolutionize supply drops that showed Activision that players Warfare Remastered showed Activision that they in a sacred remaster of a beloved game. CoD loyalty left in the franchise, and Black Ops attention over time as well as competitors. grace is our fault. Our complaints year after year much money as they would've liked. And as their Call of Duty has been more and more profitable. and launching the game in an unfinished state. standard price for a finished video game when they launch the game in an unreleased state, and drip with hints of new content here and there? Clearly I can't spend year after year complaining about of Duty lost it's identity a long time ago and getting back to that. The 8 year olds who played now. The teenagers that made Call of Duty what are 30+ and they have families of their but Activision knows who these games are really With their willingness to shun and shut down the feeling old Call of Duty, Activision has those games were like. They want them to None of this has mattered to me since my last I got to a point where I thought I just couldn't student with a job, I don't have time to grind become a better player. But one day some of the in 2012 and 2013 told me to download plutonium client that gets rid of hackers and adds a server golden days of their childhood. And it was a lot of fun. Me and my friends' main game was Black Ops 2 again. We pub stomped and played party games all but maybe the most incredible thing about I thought to myself maybe it's just because I'm familiar with downloading and playing plutonium aren't morons. to be better than some Christmas noobs, or an easy Call of Duty titles and started to get nostalgic boom periods. So what did I do? I emulated some of my favorite creators of the time and started to make cut comms like the stories and experiences were my own. FPS but I made them relevant to me again by things that had originally made me part of the It's clear that Call of Duty has undergone coming. What began as something groundbreaking connect us with friends that we still remember into something that no longer resonates with the filled with politically incorrect voice chats, of Duty as many of us knew it has faded into a But reconnecting with those golden days through the spirit of Call of Duty isn't entirely fun and social aspects that once defined love with the game in the first place. It and it inspired me to create content that The franchise, as it is today, may not be but the memories we created, the friendships always be ours. Those moments shaped us as that away. Our era of Call of Duty may be over, to disappear. We can still find ways to keep the games or creating content that captures the So with Black Ops 6 on the horizon, it's important was. I'm pretty excited to play BO6, but I know okay. The nights we experienced all that time ago lessons and built bonds that extend beyond those lasting impacts that truly matter, far (this is me talking when I was 12 or 13)