I have trained 1000 AI Musketeers for more Their first battle was epic and full of honor, I did not expect the chaos that ensued. In the first part of EPIC AI WARS, when I I've asked what would you like me to do for a ranged soldiers. I have listened to your comments, so meet Similar to warriors, musketeers will be able 100 rays in different directions. Once the ray collides with another soldier and distance of that object, so the agent Again, similar to warriors, musketeers, can: even diagonally. This allow them to navigate the environment, from their trajectory. You can now see the exact set of parameters And Again, similar to warriors, musketeers to scout the area and aim their gun properly. The rotation speed however, is faster, since Lastly the agent can shoot his musket and I will come back to this a little later in By the way, I have made these particles effects it makes everything looks so much cooler, As you can see there is no sprinting, nor at all, just like a true game developer. Since they are ranged units, I have decided warriors will have a chance to get closer Yes, I am planning to have huuuge battles as rangers, medics, warriors and so on. I am so exited to see what strategies they But that is for another video! To balance the powers between warriors and half the damage, which means they would need while warriors one hit their enemies. As for shooting I initially implemented collision will fire an actual bullet and it would deal The bullet would have a maximum travel distance never comes back with the promised milk and Actually, no, I made the system quite reusable, and my GPU doesn't melt. I also planned on giving agents another set that they would actually learn how to avoid gonna lie. After shooting a reload animation will start so he will have to position himself correctly Needless to say, having every bullet as a but mama ain't raise no pussy so I ignoring the training. I am training the soldiers using a machine For those of you who don't know, it uses his actions are good or bad. In our case the musketeer is punished for him to git gud and stop being shot. Also he will receive a punishment simply for when it is animated and colorful. But don't you worry, I am not some cold when those are already wounded and in agonizing actions.. khm, such as shooting other agents. Uhm anyways. I was training 50 soldiers in parallel, 25 They would spawn randomly in a circle and which the round resets and they are randomly The idea of spawning them randomly in a small would actually hit an opponent when shooting. Also, since bullets have a maximum travel are withing shooting range, making it easier It was going pretty well, the rounds were each other without any empathy like the kill right? Welp, everything good is doomed to come to About 8 hours, or 2200 rounds later, I thought of the mosh pit by now, so it would be time according spawn areas. So now blue team is on the left, while red This should now teach the agents how to move be outside each others shooting range. And here is where everything went wrong! Remember I said that agents learn by being Well here is the problem, the musketeer will If our ai is position correctly, then he should the way it actually worked is the agent would enemy! That means that while the bullet is flying, at the moment of reward, he will think that the shot he made few seconds ago. This problem led to the agents not being able the directions. Similar to a good parent, I decided to solve It was applied everytime the AI would fire try to aim more, instead of just shooting I guess I made the punishment too small, because I cranked it up, but then I think I made it and enjoy the beauty of the prototype grid At this point it has been around 70 hours and needless to say I was feeling kinda low. But I wouldn't be me if I would just give awould be me, but for some reasons I didn't. As hard as it was for me to accept it, I decided to raycasts. Now when the agent is shooting, a ray will If the ray hits an enemy agent, damage will Also, just for visual purposes I made it so it has no rigidbody nor colliders. Besides requiring much less computation power, instant rewards for hitting enemies, which more accurate. I know that now the agents wont be able to some more, I don't think this is necessarily As mraxle9028 pointed out in my previous video, shield in their hand, but instead of blocking So what I am going to do is retrain the warriors dodging. This new blocking ability will give them immunity, in front of them, because your back will be This immunity in theory should be enough to to close the distance. Anyways, I started once again training with the agents randomly and later in their according The final training attempt took me slightly We will have 500 musketeers fighting on each on the right. The first team to unalive all the opponents Pause the video and make your bets in the or Blue? And even as I am saying this, team red is The new particle effect definitely adds to some time, so my GPU doesn't explode, but We can already see a lot of casualties in Just like in real battles, the frontlines For this round, the agents have friendly fire bullets pass through allies and hit the front Oh by the way, in the same suggestion mraxle9028 however since all agents have exactly the I decided to make an MVP board instead. You can see soldier from which team is the Moreover, there will be this icon above the Well if he isn't already unalived of course It is quite interesting how the soldiers in right until they become the frontline. Then they switch to being all serios and start Not everyone on the backlines is useless tho, that are supporting and covering their teammates HAHA Wait until I turn the friendly fire on. Now the MVP is a blue musketeer, the dude Both teams have now lost more than 20% of soldiers and team read at 370. I expect however it to take longer once there the chance of hitting someone by accident After some more intense fighting for territory Yes, it is not a big one, but still a win! But just like a drunk father, the blue team The gap is becoming more and more noticeable, However we have this brave red musketeer who stealing this title for team blue. I am sure he will reign long and wi.. oh nevermind, The fight keeps going, and there even is some side of the map. Not sure how efficient this is in a ranged that this idiots that commit sudoku by running Looking at all these bodies I cant stop but had medics instead of rangers? Because I assume medics would be able to revive by itself. But I am drifting away from our topic the favor of team blue. The future looks pretty dim for team red. Unless they come up with some unexpected comeback I have fast forwarded this part, because it Team blue is steadily increasing their lead back, or run as those weak spirited agents now admire the wall. As the time passed by, team blue occupied further and further away. There were heroic attempts from red musketeers got in the middle of blue army. Unfortunately for him, his little spy operation Rest in RIP brave soldier. I am not sure where the last few survivors of time until the last few reds were found, blue population. Blues won this round, but enough of this peaceful Time to bring chaos upon this world! Same Rules, same environment, except now we From the first seconds the battlefield became Now your innocent butt isn't protected anymore This is indeed an existential question, who Your homies or your enemies? Leave a like if this questions doesn't let Surprisingly, this meat grinding was much I wounder why. Despite the clear dominance of team blue, something unexpected happened. Blue soldiers starting falling like flies soldiers were putting a fight. This round more agents got unalived by friendly it even more similar to real life medieval Blue team went down to 7 soldiers and even enemy. Mainly because he yeeted himself into the wall.