geoff: A restoration of past glory, a renovation toward future growth. The consequences and conflicts in the present. That's the story of Michigan central, a grand old and now new addition to Detroit's economic and cultural life. Arts correspondent Jeffrey brown reports for our arts and culture series, canvas. &gt;&gt; We spent a lot of time researching the different types of materials. &gt;&gt; Above soaring ceilings, all around, columns, ornate chandeliers, arched windows. This is the grand hall of Detroit's Michigan central, a historic train station newly restored to glory. Lead architect Richard Hess is with the firm Quinn Evans. &gt;&gt; This is the original flooring. &gt;&gt; Much of it reconstructed as it was though not the old wooden benches, on which several thousand travelers once waited every day. &gt;&gt; All these benches were gone. But we wanted to keep the reflection of what was here before and sort of that token of memory. &gt;&gt; Like the ghost of a bench. &gt;&gt; Yes. It's like the ghost of a bench, that's a great way to put it. &gt;&gt; The ghosts, both friendly and destructive, are everywhere, flitting through hallways in history. The original 1913 building, located in Detroit's corktown neighborhood, and designed by the same team behind New York's grand central, was the gateway to the city, a symbol of its industrial power, then the fourth tallest building in Detroit, the tallest train station in the world. But as Detroit's fortunes changed, Michigan central became a different symbol, of decline. After the last train left in 1988, the station sat abandoned, and came close to being torn down. A scene of decay, broken glass and walls, a derelict graffiti heaven, water damage throughout, as Hess saw on his first visit here in 2011. &gt;&gt; The entire basement area was flooded with water, millions of gallons of water. It's pitch black. There's no windows, there's no lighting. Really spooky. Calm. And you raised up the flashlights, and right on the column in front of us it was spray-painted -- this is where you die. Chills immediately went up my spine. I said, that set. I'm out of here. I want to go. But that was my first impression of the train station. &gt;&gt; In 2018, Ford motor company bought the building, with an eye toward a major contribution to Detroit's revitalization, and restoration began for real, testing its structural integrity, studying archives to match materials or replace lost items, a vast project involving engineers, designers, historians, hundreds of construction workers and craftsmen. Several examples of what was were left on view -- a graffiti hallway, columns pitted by water. &gt;&gt; You wanted us to see the damage? &gt;&gt; Telling the story of Michigan central station, not just the way it was 100 years ago, but also what happened to Michigan central during its time that it was abandoned, was really important. &gt;&gt; But this is more than just a nod to the past. The station will house offices. Ford has already moved into several floors and, eventually, retail, art spaces, a hotel and plenty more. And, crucially, Ford also bought and restored another landmark building next door designed by , one famed architect Albert Kahn and opened in 1936, first as a post office, then book depository for Detroit's public schools. It was abandoned in 1987 after a fire lifted a shell. Now it's been remade into new ab, a home for innovators and tech start-ups. Mary culler is president of Ford philanthropy and headed the Michigan central and newlab project. &gt;&gt; The vision has always been about creating an innovation tech and cultural hub that not only talks and thinks about sort of, what are the jobs of the future, but how do you bring people together to really solve the biggest problems? And, you know, those cannot be solved alone. So bringing together, think about it, corporations, start ups nonprofits, artists. All kinds of people that are all under the same roof thinking about what those problems are and thinking about how to solve them for the future. It's really a dynamic and energetic place. &gt;&gt; They are good friends of mine so I go up there sometimes. &gt;&gt; 32 year old Darren Riley, a graduate of Carnegie Mellon is one of newlab's young core of entrepreneurs, as co-founder and CEO of just , a -- just air, a company that provides data on air quality, for use by government agencies, public health services, and individuals in the community suffering, as he does, from asthma and related problems. It's a business with a social impact goal. &gt;&gt; I dedicated myself after college that I'm only going to focus on problems that actually move the needle on the people that I love. I think a lot of times when we talk about technology, we don't think of how we make sure it's inclusive, not only inclusive, but actually solving the problems that hit home for those marginalized communities. &gt;&gt; He's also a founding member of &quot;Black tech Saturdays,&quot; where people come together to share knowledge of technology and how to start and grow companies. &gt;&gt; We are seeing it make a real impact. We have a community through ups and downs. Through ups to celebrate you, cheer you on. And in the downs, to say keep going. &gt;&gt; Inevitably, this is a story of ups and downs amid change, as Michigan central's revitalization now brings more change to the surrounding neighborhoods, including historic mexicantown, named after the influx of immigrants who settled here beginning in the 1920's to be part of Detroit's industrial growth. Tomasita alfaro-koehler, known to all as Tammy, has had a front row seat from the time she first worked in her grandparents store, honey bee market. &gt;&gt; Michigan central is my front yard. &gt;&gt; It's quite an imposing building for a front yard. &gt;&gt; It is. People would say that needs to be torn down. It felt hopeless but in my heart and my husband's heart, we felt like this area could come back. &gt;&gt; Tammy and husband Ken Koehler bought honeybee in 1996 and it continues as a thriving and much loved local market. Today, she says, the streets are safe and across the street is a new apartment building. At the same time, some older customers and surrounding business are being priced out. The challenge, she says, finding a balance. &gt;&gt; You can't just come in and say, all of the sudden, change the whole look of the city, without considering the old, because we have a history. And we're thankful for the investments. We are all thankful for the investments, of the new that came in, but at the same time you have to appreciate the old that sustained the city, which kept holding onto the hope that it could be better. &gt;&gt; While all this plays out, Michigan central is now a prime example of a growing, and, says architect, Richard has, welcome trend in urban design. &gt;&gt; Today, for the first time ever, there is more work in the architectural community on existing buildings, on adapting existing buildings, than new construction. It's been a huge swing over time. But there are so many benefits. &gt;&gt; Those include sustainable building practices as well as ties to community history. And speaking of history, there's a hope to bring back train service to Michigan central one day as well. For the pbs newshour, I'm Jeffrey brown in Detroit.