Once upon a time not so far, far away.. There were McDonald's Shrek glasses. Millions of these were sold in the early 2000s. And millions of these glasses were toxic. "McDonalds is recalling 12 million of its shrek drinking glasses because a chemical has turned up in that painted design." How did this happen? Did McDonald's poison millions of children? And what did it all have to do with Shrek? Over multiple weeks, we went down a rabbit hole - and ended up in a swamp where we did not belong. An investigation that led us to a mom with a ray gun, the brutal murder of a congressman, a potential health hazard that went on for decades and... a toxic puss- The launch of the Shrek glasses was a massive failure for McDonald's. But more generally, as long as you don't poison your customers, experimenting and launching new products can be one of the coolest elements of running a company. That brings us to today's video's sponsor, Shopify. Shopify is super useful if you want to sell your own products. They make it insanely easy to create a professional online shop - so you can focus on your core business. Shopify can help you grow all the way from the first sale to a big online store. With the website editor, the store can easily be designed and adapted again and again. In the dashboard, you can get valuable insights into your finances, your inventory, your clients and much more. You can also integrate Shopify with all common social media platforms and even use it for sales in physical stores. We ran a sustainable clothing business called CultureCulture since 2018. Shopify has been an invaluable partner for years. At shopify.com/fern you can test Shopify and take the first step towards your own business. The 2000s were wild. It was also the decade of Shrek. In 2001 - Dreamworks released Shrek 1 - earning hundreds of millions of dollars. It was lucrative. Dreamworks had something. Only a few years later came Shrek 2. One of the highest grossing animated films of all time. Next up was Shrek the Third, and life changing TV specials like Shrek the Halls and Scared Shrekless. But in 2010 ... Dreamworks released their most controversial work yet. Shrek Forever After. Top critics were swamped, calling the movie quite medi-ogre. Some even used fancy words like: "Shrek 4 shows all the signs of mortuus equus syndrome." Whatever that means. But what made the mixed reviews even stranger, is that Shrek 4 still managed to gross over 750 million dollars worldwide. A serious chunk a' change for a franchise that seemed ogre... It wasn't a surprise for Dreamworks though. Sequels just work, unfortunately - but Dreamworks had also created a powerful marketing machine. A machine that brought Shrek into the minds and hands of countless children at home. At whatever cost. It's the late 1970s. McDonald's is losing its market share for children. Not selling saturated fats to kids is not an option. So in order to maintain their grip, they decide to combine content and consumption. They package a McDonalds meal like a present that comes with puzzles, riddles, and games. Right off the bat, the Happy Meal toys are tied in with Hollywood productions. McDonalds secures deals with Disney and other famous children's content brands. McDonald's advertises and sells merchandise for the respective brand, and they get free attractive content in return. Instead of a creepy clown, McDonalds can now use Disney Princesses to lure in kids and their parents. The McDonalds Happy Meal quickly became one of the first socially acceptable forms of children's gambling. A cardboard loot box. Only by visiting McDonald's weekly, could a child have a chance of collecting all the characters from a set. A stroke of marketing genius. Today, the Happy Meal is vital to the financial success of the chain - contributing between 15-20% of its revenue. McDonald's is thought to be the largest toy distributor in the world. One of the brands who capitalized on this relationship was Dreamworks. In 2005, McDonalds ended a decade-long exclusive deal with Walt Disney. Disney's Treasure Planet and Atlantis were a flop, but Dreamworks had Shrek. Part of the deal was that DreamWorks would craft original animation for McDonalds commercials. In return, ogres were put in Happy meals. It was a success. McDonalds inks another deal to team up with Dreamworks for Shrek Forever After. Enter collectible Shrek glasses. These glasses were not actually a part of the Happy Meal, but could be purchased with every order. An upsell: get the burger, get the toy, get the glass while you're at it. Like Shrek, the glasses were a massive hit, and millions were sold. Those who managed to acquire all four of them, could take pride in their collection. But you see... Shrek should have never been taken out of his swamp. The glasses had some serious issues. They were outright dangerous and no one noticed. No one... Except for three people, and one of them was a mom ... with an xray gun. It's a hot summer day in Los Angeles in 2010. Jennifer Taggart is sorting through some work-related papers when her child storms in, demanding attention. Grinning, her son presents her a brand new Shrek glass, he just got from McDonald's. Any ordinary parent would just brush it off... ...but Jennifer is no ordinary parent. She is a lawyer with almost a decade of experience in environmental litigation and consumer product safety. And Jennifer has a bad feeling about that glass. Naturally, as any responsible parent... ...she is in possession of a handheld X-ray fluorescence spectrograph. Also known as an XRF. An XRF analyzer shoots an X-ray beam into a target making it emit light. Atoms of every element have a unique fluorescence. By analyzing that light, you can find the materials the object is made out of. You know, just your average parenting device. These guns cost thousands. Jennifer is going to use her's to figure out exactly what Shrek is made of. When she sees the device reading - her heart sinks. Shrek's beautiful green skin contains cadmium. A toxic heavy metal and known carcinogen. That means it can cause cancer. Like other heavy metals, high concentrations of cadmium can be very, very bad for the human body. To your cells, cadmium just looks like zinc, so it's eagerly taken up. But the body doesn't use cadmium. So instead, it damages the lungs, and the intestines. Kidneys fail and bones crumble. Jennifer is terrified about the McDonald's Shrek glass ... and she finds an unlikely ally in her battle against them. Jackie Speier had a rough start in politics. She started as an assistant to a congressman whom she accompanied to South America to investigate an abusive suicide cult. At the end of their trip, cult followers ambushed them. They shot and killed Congressman Ryan and four others in his traveling group. Jackie Speier was shot 5 times and left for dead on a jungle airstrip. She managed to survive for over 22 hours until help finally arrived. To this day, she carries two bullets in her body from the incident. Despite this horrible experience, she entered politics and rose to prominence like a Washington version of 50 Cent. But her share of tragedy wasn't up. When she was pregnant with her second child, her husband died in a car crash. Facing an almost incomprehensible amount of suffering, she continued on her path and went to represent California in Congress. Her first name is also Karen. A mother of two, Jackie has long been concerned about toxic consumer products. She champions the new regulation to reduce the acceptable amount of cadmium in children's products. Jennifer Taggart and Karen Lorraine Jacqueline Speier join forces. Jackie received an anonymous tip for the glasses and went to the Consumer Products Safety Commission - CPSC -, urging them to investigate. At the same time, Jennifer also reports her findings to the CPSC, and sends her findings to Jackie's office. For McDonald's, a PR nightmare begins. In an attempt at damage control, McDonald's immediately recalls its shrek glasses in conjunction with the CPSC. By that time, around 9 million of them had already been sold. They offered a $3 refund for the $2 glass to incentivize buyers to return them. In the end, 13,4 Million glasses were recalled across the US and Canada. "Please bring the glasses in case you do not want your kids to have cancer" - is NOT what they say in the press statement. Instead, they call it "an abundance of caution". It's too late. The headlines are rolling in. And they sound .. bad. The word "toxic" is everywhere. 12 years later, Cracked called them "toxic AF". From what we can tell, it seems like McDonalds never attempted to sell painted glasses again. Jackie and Jennifer had won. So let's get it straight - how dangerous, or not, were these Shrek glasses really? And what about all those other painted glasses McDonald's has been selling since the 70s? At the time, according to CBS news, .6 micrograms of ingested cadmium could be hazardous over time for an average 6 year old of around 20 kilograms. The CPSC collected the Shrek glasses to conduct tests for toxicity. They wiped the glasses 30 times to check for cadmium and other dangerous substances like lead or mercury. The wipes could give an estimation for the amount of a substance that leached from the glass onto the hand. What they found was fascinating. Shrek, Princess Fiona, and Donkey did not have high levels of cadmium. In fact, tests for other dangerous chemicals like lead or barium also turned up nothing. However, there was one glass that was dangerous. No. It was puss in boots - unfortunately. A set of three towelettes from the Puss in Boots glass picked up around 15.83 micrograms of cadmium. The CPSC assumed that half or less of this amount would get into children's mouths, through nibbling, their hands etc. The concern was not that this would poison a child right away. In fact, at the time no illness from the glasses were directly reported. Rather the cadmium intake could accumulate and become a serious health hazard over prolonged periods of time. "Just eight touches of the Puss in Boots glass per day would expose that 6 year old to as much cadmium as they could safely ingest in a day." In the press statement by the Commission, the spokesperson Scott Wolfson praised McDonalds' quick actions - adding that the cadmium content in the glasses wouldn't even be that high. The people making the glasses were convinced that they weren't dangerous at all. However, there were others who were much more critical. A chemistry professor, Jeffrey Weidenhamer, found the concentration of cadmium to be around 800 parts per million in the Shrek glasses. The federal law puts a maximum level at 75 ppm for children's toys. However, glasses aren't considered toys. Quite convenient for McDonald's. Painted glasses have been a recurring theme in McDonalds since forever. Already in the 70s, McDonald's got into trouble for them for the first time. The Federal Environmental Protection Agency discovered the lead content in the paint was exceeding the legal limit by over 17 times. Though unlike with the Shrek incident, no glasses had to be recalled as far as we can tell. At the time the Food and Drug Administration apparently saw no "acute health hazard." This does not mean these glasses were unproblematic - at least from today's standards... This is Tamara Rubin, another mom with a raygun. She runs Lead Safe Mama LLC, a consumer protection company based in the US. For many years she has reported on the use of cadmium and lead in consumer products. Although it seems like there have been no other painted glasses sold by McDonald's after Shrek 4, similar painted glasses do still exist. This is Andrew Turner, a chemistry professor from the University of Plymouth. He tested around 200 different painted glasses, both old and new and found high concentrations of both cadmium and lead in 80% of them. Cadmium and lead from the painted glasses can leach out on your hands and lips and into your body. Does that mean you need to immediately bury them in a concrete coffin? Well, that's your call. But there are some precautions you may want to take. And if you have small children, maybe just don't have such glasses around. All of this made us wonder: if this whole category of glass decoration might be dangerous, why is it apparently legal to sell them? Due to a lack of regulation, these glasses continue to be produced and imported. We reached out to Jennifer Taggert for this story. But she did not get back to us. We also asked McDonald's for a comment. They did not get back to us. To us it is wild to think that McDonald's sold these for more than 30 years - despite initial concerns already at the end of the 70s. Especially since their target group was kids. It's good that Jennifer Taggart pulled the trigger that day... to have at least some of them be sent back.