On the 4th of January, 2012, a user on 4chan to the site's infamous /b/ or random board. The anonymous author, who went by the four-digit a message hidden within the image. Unbeknownst to those who stumbled across it, most elaborate scavenger hunts the internet Within minutes of the image being posted someone a text editor an appended string of readable The string contained a cipher that, once deciphered, At first this appeared to be a dead end but users were able to extract hidden information embedded The extracted information lead to a subreddit The book along with a code could phone number that, when called, By the following day, the initial image had A growing community of armchair detectives no one was quite sure what to make off it. What was the puzzle for? Who was behind it? What happens when you reach the end? Some naturally dismissed it as an elaborate as evidence against it being the work of a Before long, rumors began to circulate that or intelligence agency with the intent of cryptography, steganography, Of course, it was nothing but a rumor. The two missing numbers mentioned in the recording After multiplying the width and height with users were taken to a website. The website consisted of a countdown as well When the countdown reached zero, the page The coordinates pointed to locations around 14 locations in 5 different countries. It was now up to participants living near comfortable armchairs and venture outside. Those who believed Cicada to be the work of an In their opinion, only some international to create a scavenger hunt of this magnitude. This was not the work of your average troll. No, this had to be something else. At each location was a poster with the cicada ...on the bike shelter over here. See I got it... I got it right there. You can see the corners, I just kinda ripped it off. The codes linked to an image, the image contained and the book lead to a website. But here, the puzzle took an unexpected turn. Only a select group of first arrivals to this website The site eventually closed down with the message: &quot;We want the best, not the followers.&quot; The finalists were also warned not to collaborate private stage of the puzzle. Well, given that we know this, it's safe to But those who did presumably advanced through end of the puzzle. After nearly a month of silence an image appeared of the puzzle and, just like that, the hunt Cicada had supposedly found the and whatever happened to them is a bit of a The lack of an explanation was perceived by nothing but a wild-goose chase intent on wasting After all, questions raised by the original What was the puzzle for? Who was behind it? What happens when you reach the end? However, as it later turned out, this was Whomever was behind this intricate game had code known as a PGP signature This allowed users to verify that an image to some impostor seeking to derail or hijack Cicada had repeatedly warned of such &quot;false paths&quot; a valid PGP signature should promptly be disregarded. That's why this image, posted exactly a year After a year of lackluster imitations, this Cicada was back and it was time for round two. The second puzzle was not too dissimilar from The image enclosed a message, the message and gradually the puzzle unfolded. At one point, a recording titled Another clue lead to a cryptic Twitter account The image proved vital to the progression alphabet would remain a mystery for quite Much like the first puzzle the second swelled compelled participants to, once again, take This time it was But eventually the trail went cold once again. Another select group of first arrivals had Unlike the first puzzle the second did not The trail merely went cold and Cicada vanished However, this was still not the end. At the beginning of 2014 Once again the image enclosed a message, the and suffice it to say, it was more Except, this time, the puzzle seemed to revolve The book was titled Liber Primus, meaning The runic alphabet uncovered in 2013 finally made Even so, the meaning of the translated pages The book consisted of various philosophical and Many have since compared the strange writings Nevertheless, the book also comprised a myriad For example, this page advised participants but the site remains undiscovered. Another page lead to a website containing However, a significant portion of the book The runic text on some of the pages appear that has yet to be decrypted. Of the 74 pages featuring runes, only 19 have As 2015 came and went without the launch of had to be completed if Cicada was to return. This was more or less confirmed when Cicada encouraged More than four years have now gone by with minimal Questions raised by the original image have What is the purpose of these puzzles? Who's behind them? What happens when you reach the end? When the initial image appeared on 4chan back alternate reality game designed by a corporation For example, Microsoft developed an elaborate Artificial Intelligence and a similar viral marketing But the release of subsequent puzzles and has more or less eliminated that possibility. If we choose to believe some of the leaked each puzzle than we do gain some insight into For example, at the end of the first puzzle, In it, Cicada describe themselves as an international The aim of each puzzle is to recruit in an effort to develop The email then concludes with three questions. The PGP signature, which would have confirmed removed by the leaker. If a version with a valid signature does exists But regardless of it's legitimacy, I find It reads: Assuming the expected answer is yes then the &quot;DO NOT SHARE THIS INFORMATION!&quot; ...seems a bit hypocritical. While the idea of a secret society recruiting puzzles may seem a bit absurd or even conspiratorial, Corporations and governments alike have employed the second World War. In 2013, the British intelligence agency GCHQ &quot;Can You Find It?&quot;. Participants had to decrypt a number of cryptograms to solve the entire puzzle were offered a Google did something similar with enigmatic a near-identical project in 2014. Okay, but then, what about the recruits? Why have we not heard from these chosen few? Well, we have. It's just that separating a legitimate finalist In a 2015 interview with Rolling Stone, two the events beyond the final stage. After receiving an email from Cicada they Here, they could communicate with some twenty established members of Cicada. They were told that Cicada 3301 had been founded about security, privacy, and censorship. The goal was to work as a collective to develop As friends recruited friends, this secret international organization. The recruits were then tasked with developing and members of Cicada would oversee their But without the allure of a puzzle to be solved, By the end of 2012 all but one had left and They never heard from Cicada again. One of the two winners, named Marcus Wanner, later Furthermore, Nox Populi himself claims to out to him and this is some of what he had After completing the final stages of the second join Cicada 3301. However, he was not invited to a website but Then, around May of 2013, all communication This was around the same time as when the puzzle was suddenly taken down. Nox Populi later contacted other winners of experiences were identical. In his own words: &quot;All the stories were the same, we were invited silence followed a request for patience.&quot; Nox Populi suppose that roughly five others the twenty-odd winners of the first. In regards to who or what Cicada is, Nox Populi movement of the late 80s and 90s. Essentially a small group of activists advocating privacy-enhancing technologies but he admits If you want a far more comprehensive walkthrough Nox Populi has produced a number of videos While these accounts cannot be verified they to what Cicada is. A group of anonymous developers seeking to recruiting talented individuals via cryptographic Sure, it is not nearly as exciting as a shadow of the more fantastical theories but it is You have to keep in mind that no part of these The posters are often pointed to as evidence organization but I beg to differ. I mean, right now, I could use any number the globe to install posters for me. Although, given that no poster was located me to believe that one or multiple persons I mean, some of the posters were found within The fact is that anyone with a disposable be able to create the illusion of a vast secret Not saying that is the case with Cicada 3301 but it is With all of that being said, I personally hobby-cryptographers to be the most plausible Cicada made their last public statement in but the current status of the third puzzle remains clouded in mystery.