We think the guys are alive Because there's no blood, As I understood it was... The armor of our soldiers Completely torn apart by fragments 13.76 -- one shot Fire! [gunshot sound] We just f*cked them up there, and now our infantry will go in and clean up If needed, we'll cover them Our command hinted that We need to finish them off a bit, so our guys can go in and clean them out The village is ours Helmets, gas masks... here... M119, right? That was a hit from a GBU... ...and... the cannon is destroyed, everything's shattered... ...here... The prop (gun support) ...this is a 105 mm cannon... And this was exactly where the hit landed The GBU was probably a 250 kg And here is the cannon itself This is war, and it's fought with such heavy efforts We think the guys are alive Because there's no blood, As I understood there was a command they took cover there, and it hit here, f*ck Well, the entire windbreak is destroyed The trees... the trees are shattered, Look over there... And this is what the windbreak looks like after the GBU hit A huge fragment flew in here, right here... but the ballistic plate saved his life The armor of our soldiers Look - completely torn apart by fragments Here, in the bulletproof vest of our soldier, where the GBU hit, there were these kinds of children's drawings It was probably kind of a father, and his children sent him the drawings - "Hello - I hope you're doing well Here's, as they say, a little piece of me" - here...: "Your Sonya. I love you" Incredible, friends And here, probably, is the photo of this soldier Documents of the soldiers who worked bags, documents, well... accordingly, all of this will be handed over to the battalion They will pass it to their relatives The bag is all damaged, burned... I live near the cannon - here and there... Are you the cannon's operator on duty? Yes Yes, the guys are removing the camouflage This is our American or British M119 howitzer The gunner is doing the targeting What's your position? Here - yes These are the shells that come in such tubes So, the shell and the casing come together in the tube, right? Powder and the shell The powder is already in the casing. The shell This is a 105 mm caliber Is this a kind of makeshift cover against Lancets Yes, yes So, you have a mobile crew? At the moment, yes. We need to get to Moscow, no time to stand still Right now, as far as I know, Yes, yes They're finishing clearing the village and To Kursk [smiling] No, beyond Kursk No, further We'll find out there Fire! [gunshot sound] 13.76 - one shot Fire! The trick here is -- run! They're far, far away [explosion sound] That was the third one Another one... There are really two D*mn, do you know where to run?! There's ammo there, everything could blow up Fragment! What the h*ll is that? Holy sh*t! D*mn, how far is it flying, for real?! Holy cr*p... It probably went upward An enemy UAV is flying overhead, The guys are camouflaging the howitzer Throw the net over it Here, in the nearby windbreak, a GBU strike hit, Unbelievable... In short, we need... We need to put on body armor and helmets We're just standing here, d*mn... We're covering. Our guys are moving in We just f*cked them up there, and now our infantry will go in and clean up If needed, we'll cover them We're working, we're getting it done... today, in the statistics, or tomorrow I believe so Our command hinted that We need to finish them off a bit, so our guys can go in and clean them out The village is ours, though it will be destroyed, Vankas... Well, as the commander said, so it's easier to destroy the village Sure, sure..., Of course, yes [gunshot sound] We smashed a couple of houses with "russian boys" inside Well, yeah Camouflaged the howitzer, and now we're going to the shelter to cook some potatoes That's right Vasya, collect them. Look at this The potatoes in russia are really small Nothing grows here Yeah, d*mn, they're tiny Take what there is Do you want to cook potatoes Well, yeah Right here in the windbreak? Yeah, where else? There's another one there -- Do you think you'll be sending the howitzer for "candies" (ammunition) A dog befriends the one who feeds it russians fed it -- it befriended them Now you feed it -- it befriends you Haven't you given it any name? Jacky, nyah-nyah Jacky They, d*mn, came up with the f*cking idea to take the car away Brought ten? Ten, sort of... Actually brought... Sixteen in total Got it? [sounds of outgoing shots] Our colleagues are working... from the Grad on the b*stards Well, a new target has appeared They're adjusting the aim Fire! Our guys... are conducting active offensive actions, taking captives, advancing forward, and we, the artillerymen, Fire! Fire! Those guys walking around in the rear -- Let them keep wearing skirts and walking around We've seen so many videos, where, d*mn, they're even because they're too scared to leave the apartment, and dressing up like chicks, d*mn... walking around in high heels... Well, what? Isn't it true? It is... This is... well... f*ck Running away abroad Shame! Tysa -- not Tysa... Tysa, d*mn They drown in that river just to avoid serving, d*mn They could live here, defending their families, their land And, d*mn, keep living, instead of drowning in a river They say that we Well, I don't mind I'll pay anyone who comes to me those 100 thousand -- let him sit here for me Or at least for half a year... If he can handle it, of course... Because I know he won't They're gonna f*ck us soon :-) Those two...saboteurs :-) the main group ahead, and behind... I've never thought I'd be walking around like this in russia... in the evening, somewhere in a village, with...five old grannies, and part of our guys Pigs're running around Peppa :-). Oh, here it comes Come here, come here... A-ah! [laughs] He came with a dog today :-) A-ah! Really...to you? Yes, he came with a dog :-) A-ah! [laughs] What a...Boar! Here! Come here How are you, a good boy? Oh! Get out of here! I'm not friends with you D*mn, unbelievable... just walking through the village -- goats, pigs, pigeons...