What's the best password manager now in 2023? Hi, everyone. Askleo.com. Here's the question we got. I'm confused as to the best The several reviews I've read tend to I now have information paralysis and I can't decide which to try, I'm overwhelmed by the number I'll be completely honest with you, I did not expect to be updating this As you know, last year, LastPass had a breach and that's caused me their recommendation I have an updated recommendation. Cutting to the chase, I switched last year, shortly after the last Pass breach, or five months that I've been using it, There are some aspects of it that are a little bit actually The interaction or the integration with websites and sign in forms It's slightly more complex to set up, that's a side effect of the fact that it's They've implemented it a little So that's what I've been using. And like I said, if you need a bottom line recommendation, you can't Now, I realized that 1Password There is no free version, for example. It covers all the platforms, it does all the things, There are two other solutions that I would One of them is Bitwarden. Bitwarden, I've played with a little bit, friends and readers who have spoken very It's a very worthy equivalent and what's that there is in fact a free The other solution that I would also look at very, very seriously is Now, there's a difference with KeePass And that's something that I think we want to understand because honestly, this might be a decision The question is, where is your data kept? With LastPass in the past, with 1Password, cloud based service that actually Now, that makes a lot It shouldn't because in fact, the cloud Even with LastPass, there is no indication that any of the encrypted data They did some other things bad, Storing things online in the cloud enables you to use your passwords from whatever Both Bitwarden and 1Password allow you that's automatically synchronized across including your PCs, your Macs, Keepass, on the other hand, They don't have a cloud based service. They put the onus on you to decide You can have your KeePass You could have it on a You could actually have it in a service like Dropbox or One Drive, But this time again, where you want them to be and are Now, KeePass absolutely Don't get me wrong, it's not like you're You are storing something that's encrypted, but the bottom line is So that's a decision to be made. Do you want the convenience of a service that makes all of your passwords available happen to use, or do you want to control Now, I've listed only 1password, BitW orden and KeePass, and the reputation I've heard through However, if you want more to choose from, Net and you'll find that it lists over 200 There's a lot of password managers out there, way more than I actually Here's the thing that I want to be very and that is that I don't want you to just Like I said, there's a lot of them out there with a lot of varying Some of them are dedicated tools. They were written from the ground Others feel like some other project needing to have that checkbox that says, I'm always concerned about those kinds focused on doing one thing really, on this other feature so that they There are two other password managers not because I've had any experience but because once again, and feedback I hear, and that's Now, I want to be clear. If you have a password manager that you love and I haven't mentioned it, All it means is that I haven't been able That's just not practical. What I want to do is give you the top, and most reliant on alternatives so and come up with a solution What's important here is It's actually less important which one you use as long as you use one Of the ones that I've mentioned here today, yeah, any of those What's most important is I've likened it to things I've said about which I've also then in turn The best password manager is whichever Because using one is and remains a critical step towards Use a password manager. When deciding on which one you want to keep your data and if that matters again, making sure to include how it makes your password information use, is it only a fill in when Is there a separate interface where Those kinds of things. How complicated does it If you're not going to use it because it feels too complicated, then it's not And there are differences across And finally, cost. Now, in my opinion, It's worth the investment. Not everybody is in a position That's fine. Then make sure you choose one that has You have lots and lots of options. And the good news here is that most For updates, for comments, for links related to this Askleo.com/148053. I'm Leo Notenboom. This is Askleo.com. Thanks for watching.