Okay, welcome to Introductory Calculus. I and then I'll tell you a little bit cover in this course and then give you from physical sciences and then a little for many of you this might be the easiest but I think things will get progressively be interesting to everybody if today's lecture so let me tell you some practical information. So These are the lecture notes which were written few years until last year so we'll just follow at some point as the lecturer so you can call twice a week today is special just because and Wednesdays at 10am, so not too early the first two problem sheets are online. four tutorials in your college. Okay so lecture notes are online, the reading list I like is Mary Boas's Mathematical Methods most of your colleges should have a copy of this is this book is quite concise and it has and science it also has the added advantage reading list if you drop this one on your foot orthopedic surgeon. All right, so that's that so the first half of the course - about to differential equations. So this is about differential equations (ODEs) and partial give you some examples very soon. We'll look at we'll learn some techniques. It's a combination art. You have to do some educated guesses at very useful subject and then after that we'll reason these are useful is because we will areas of various regions in the plane or and then finally we'll do calculus this should be viewed as a gentle calculus. So among the things that we'll normal vectors will look at critical points and a little which are useful for optimization problems. Okay, course and other premlim courses that you will well obviously multivariable calculus as I said. work and we do some examples for in introduction theorems you prove in multivariable calculus, so that. You also do these and they are also useful term fourier series and PDEs. Now there is a lot particularly analysis two which is what you do from analysis that will just say and not prove, but real rigorous proofs you'll do in analysis you revise or for your exams in Trinity. Okay so lots of applied mathematics options that will option, fluid and waves etc so this is a very to be here. So now let me give you some examples DEs, so what is an ordinary differential an independent variable, let's call it x and a be the dependent variable and the derivatives d^2y/dx^2 etc you know so the order of the highest the differential equation. So for example the something of the form dy/dx equals some function by direct integration so this can be solved the antiderivative of f(x) and then we we can differential equation that we can have and this is a little bit of integration techniques. But there so let me give you some examples from physical this is something that you have all seen, says that the force is the mass times the But then the acceleration is a derivative. It is time. So that's already a differential equation equation if you think that v is dr/dt where r is d^2r/dt^2 which is a second order differential differential equations appear in mechanics. Well engineering, or if you have an electrical circuit. circuit, which for example: an RLC circuit - it has R stands for resistor, so it has a resistor has a capacitor with capacitance C and it has So I have a capacitor with C capacitance and the inductance. So here are R, L and C are but then I'm interested for example in the current across I(t) is the current across the in terms of differential equations t the time for example is a dependent variable I can capacitor on the capacitor and the relation Kirchoffs law says that the total voltage is way saying the voltage V from the battery across the resistor plus the voltage across the now you write each one of them. The voltage the one on the capacitor is just 1/C and for So now I can express for example so I have an so I can rewrite everything in terms of Q, for in Q which will be simply: this would be the times d^2Q/dt^2 + RdQ/dt +1/C Q = V, so that appears in electrical circuits. Yeah so it's of second order - it has constant coefficients and it's what we'll call inhomogeneous because type of differential equations that we can we so I'll leave one as an exercise for you. So a radioactive substance decays is proportional to as an exercise, to write a differential equation back to things like this later. So what equation? Okay so as you progress along in this encounter very very interesting and sophisticated so we're just scratching the surface a little bit. before - the simplest kind of ODE is dy/dx equals review a couple of facts about integration. So most of you are quite familiar with is integration come from? Well it comes from the product rule. If and then I differentiate them so f times g prime g f times g prime equals f times g prime minus then I end up with the integration by parts which x. It equals f times g minus f prime times g dx. version, you can have a definite integral So let me spell it out. So this is the so let's do a couple of examples. So the first sin(x). So this would solve, so this would x^2 sin(x) ok so in the integration by parts one's g. Now clearly I would like to decrease the sine by differentiation so then maybe this which means that g is -cos x so if I times minus cos x and then minus times minus cos x dx. This is minus x And now again this should be f and this should minus 2 times sine x dx. So please try to know if I make a mistake. This is kind of this while I'm being filmed. Right exactly minus cos(x) then plus C is this... so plus a constant because we're doing indefinite So again an indefinite integral: What do you think? Which one should be f and which so this I want to differentiate to get rid of the that this is going to be g prime, thank you and x squared minus x ln (x^2+1) minus the integral natural log of x squared plus 1 which is 2x over do I do here? Good so we we do long division, so ln x squared plus 1 and then minus 2x cubed minus remember how to do long division, so I have x you will draw the the long division in different way. So that's x minus x cubed minus x then minus means that x cubed minus x squared over x squared Did you get the same thing? Okay so let's call this integral J and now we x plus 1 over x squared plus 1 dx which equals how do I integrate this term? The fraction Yeah and let me write the last term plus dx over x recognize that - what is it? It's arctan(x) or this is arctan of x which is tan inverse of x. Yeah let's do that. So that we remember how to do what it is right, but just to review substitution 2x dx, so du/dx equals 2x which means that this Ln of x squared plus 1 that you might have guessed Okay so now let's put them all together. Ln x squared plus 1 plus tan inverse of x + some the integral in the beginning which I should down the boards, that equals x squared minus x x squared plus 2x plus Ln x squared plus Thank you. Any other mistakes? Alright. Okay so that's a that's an intro. There are cases of the two functions f and g but what happens is what you started with. So the typical example is So maybe we don't need to go through the entire well - but how would you solve it? Right so is g prime and this is f and then I integrate up with some expression - they seem to grow you get the answer to be something like 1/2 e Okay so another type of example which you cannot solve in just one go formula. So I'll just do an example like so this is when we get a reduction or if So I start, suppose I'm looking at this integral: integral I(n) because I'm going to get a formula there is not much choice here what you should to just do it. So this is cos^(n-1) x times cos get cos n minus 1 x sin(x) minus the integral. minus 2 x and then minus sine x and then another - n - 1 times, or maybe I'll make it a plus, and that what do you do now? You write sine squared as minus 1 x sine x plus n minus 1, the integral of cos n squared x dxm so now I recognize that this minus 2 and the integral of cos, and this is I(n) we get I(n) that n I(n) equals cos^(n-1)(x)sin(x)+ I(n) equals 1 over n cos (n minus 1) x is true for all n greater than or equal these integrals I(n) using this formula I(1) because it drops down by 2. So let's the integral dx which is x plus C, and I(1) plus C and now with this you can for example if you want to get I don't know I(6), you just follow that and you get that 6 times I(4) which is 1 over 6 cos^5(x) sine x plus 3/4 I(2), then what is I(2) is 1/2 cos x sine your substitute this in there and I get an I six cos cubed x sine x plus 5 times 3 times 1 over 6 over 6 times 4 times 2 x, so it has I think formula using this example - you see how involving all the terms I think you can you can Okay so this is a quick review of integration these examples or similar examples, then few more examples with integration by parts, differential equations we'll learn a lot of integrate some functions so you should be able problem to integrating various functions Okay so we discussed about which can be solved just by direct these are the so-called separable. so we had the case dy/dx equals f(x) case would be dy/dx equals a(x) b(y). a function in only x and similar If you have a situation like that then you can simple trick. If b(y) is not zero then you divide and now you can integrate just as we did so the left-hand side is the integral dy and now you have to direct integrations right. The type of integrals that we have you can apply integration by parts or some were to write an arbitrary function there and that in a closed formula. Okay so here's the separable differential equation. So the a separable differential equation x times 1 dy/dx equals to 0 and x is between 0 &amp; 1 to Okay, how do you separate this differential Correct, so I think you're about two steps step by step. So what I will do is first one dy/dx equals minus xy squared minus one suggests. You have y over y squared minus one Okay what do we do now? Correct, so if we look well let me write one more, so we integrate this minus x over x squared minus 1 dx so now we could know how to do it, this looks like the derivative squared minus 1 then I get 2x over x squared minus better to write this as 1 x over 1 minus x squared 1 minus x squared minus 2x over 1 minus x squared and a half and then plus a C. Whereas because I don't know. It's 1/2 Ln so y Now the easiest way to write this is to get rid Using the properties of the logarithmic, so let's x to the left hand side then I use the property, means that the equation will be y squared minus it would be e to C squared or e to to C which I be a positive number so the equation then where C is positive. But I can relax that, this is always positive, because I'm assuming x is a nicer form by dropping the absolute value and this for uniformity, I'll write it as 1 minus 1 minus x squared equals C. No assumption on C except in this formula it looks like it can't which is never 0 so this is positive, I drop the somehow 0 is missing. How is that possible? Yes? That's right. Okay, so where did I lose y squared minus one. I did that ignoring so note so let's call this star here so in if we need to allow that because it is possible is the constant function 1 then this is 0 allow if y is plus minus 1 is included in the So then the bottom line is that the answer is this implicit equation in y and x So be careful when when you divide by can do that if you know that's not zero, being zero so you have to be careful there. All see you tomorrow for for the second lecture