Nazriya and Basil Joseph Welcome to all I have been seeing from my childhood days when my mother used to feed me What do you have to say for that? He used to walk with leaking nose and have rice But I am a better actor I always like Tellicherry Kannur food She put a post and in the comments we could see contact Shweta Gupta, Let us listen to what the public has to say Minnal Murali was a good movie No Keralaites When will your Hindi movie get released? Pearle What all is happening here? You can reply in Hindi itself There was a story and now it became a movie I am talking about the movie now and you are holding on to that line We are women of 2024 My head is aching. Is that normal? Today I understood how simple and sweet I am Hello everybody. Welcome to a brand new episode of Pearle Maaney Show As you see, we have 2 power packed people in our episode today They are so energetic, bubbly and loved Basil Joseph and Nazriya Let's welcome both of them to Pearle Maaney Show Basil Joseph An actor with depth and a director with vision Basil Joseph stands amongst the finest story tellers of Indian Cinema With an uncanny gift for blending humour and heartfelt emotion, He crafts films that make us cry, laugh and reflect all at once From his debut with Kunjiramayanam to delivering Minnal Murali, Basil has redefined Malayalam cinema Reaching new heights and thrilling audiences across the world Nazriya Nazim A name that resonates with undeniable charm From a young girl in the industry to a beloved versatile actoress Nazriya has captured our hearts like a true star Across both Malayalam n Tamil cinema With unforgettable roles in Om Shanti Oshana and Bangalore Days, She has left an indelible mark Now after a brief pause, she returns to the big screen with her signature grace And infectious energy, ready to captivate us once again. Sit back, relax and join us In welcoming Nazriya and Basil to the Pearle Maaney Show Hello guys, welcome to Pearle Maaney's You Tube Channel This is Pearle Maaney Show My face muscles are aching laughing a lot That much of comedy and something and all is happening here She has got 2 jokers here. Nazriya and Basil Joseph Both of you, welcome to Pearle Maaney Show Thank you so much Today we are going to have a blast I think one part of it is already over Both of them not only have a good chemistry but had a fight too I saw a clap board of both of you when the BTS of Sookshmadarshini I felt both of you were holding the clap board between a fight I thought you would have done that for fun But now I have understood the fact That it was real By the time today's episode gets over, We will know whom to say Hearty Condolences to You may go Welcome both of you to the show What expectations did both of you have when you came to do the movie? What is happening now? Whom should I start with? Nazriya He is always tired He always says that You can have tea Cheers We have lot of common friends Shyam, Sushin and many more They always tell me that if I worked with Basil, it would be amazing Both have the same energy colliding It is non stop We did Palthu Janwar. But I had not seen Basil at all then I had never gone to the set Just their name Get lost We are the ones who worked hard You are the one who is acting. What and whom should I come and see? To see my money go for nothing She is saying about the money she lost I thought she would say something good and asked this question Do you want to come back to the question? We go to a set to see and learn something What should I learn seeing his acting? So I didnt go to that set Coming back to the serious talk You should give a better answer after this Of course. It is going to be very difficult How about changing the name to WWF or so Sameerka used to say the same. Put both of them with gloves into a boxing ring I think if it was Nazriya in Jana Gana Mana, she would box without practice It is Jaya Jaya Jaya Jaya Hai Sitting with you guys, I am also confused. I am also wondering about that movie I was wondering will I win if I hit Prithvi Quite naturally I actually meant Jaya Jaya Jaya Those who have it less, wont get it soon. I understand I am sitting here after removing my brain I haven't completed my answer yet Lot of common friends used to say this There was a project in between for Bhavana Studios too There were lot of discussions with Basil in that For him to direct and so I heard my name had come in at that time I thought our energies would collide then But it finally came for Sookshmadarshini What did you expect? What did you think about Basil? He was like this only I am completely satisfied People have told me that he has the same energy like mine But when I saw him... People had to tell us to calm down. It was a good energy Basil's is the same pattern like how I work as an actor What is your pattern? But I am a better actor All are in pin drop silence here in this room He says I am a better actor They are totally in shock But I have more experience than you Where is your state award? Oh! So you are in that level? Jokes apart. Last time when I was working with Prithvi, it was the same kind We are similar kind of actors. In the action we are serious and do it as needed Your character would be in you But otherwise not really So that is happening He is in the same category Dont sit so seriously like that You can give an answer to that. It is Basil's opportunity now He is thinking You dont have to think so intellectually I was saying in my mind that she is anyways saying everything Same question .. same answer You would be having another perspective in life Dont you? That is why you are not directing since quite some time Shyam and Sushin used to tell me the same. I too heard the same only They used to say OMG All have a lot to say about her I dont know if its the local language.. But ok So, I had an expectation Infact more than that But she was lower than that I expected a level This is going somewhere else My first question went on like this. I used to see her on tv from my childhood days when my mom used to feed me What do you have to say on that? Is she the same then and now? It seems he saw me when he was being fed We both are of the same age. He walked with leaking nose and I walked in a better way He walked being fed She used to cover her head and sing songs those days I had all kinds of talents then Show that once again Did you say the answer? I had just begun answering. I have been seeing her from my childhood days I had an expectation. What happened It was beyond that I have seen many like this. for eg Dhyan Srinivasan Get lost Not like that He got tensed. I had an expectation When we met, we were like we knew each other for long We used to say, you used to do this and that those days Didnt you throw stones on baby hens A song from the movie Sookshmadarshini is out Say about that That is the only thing that gives us a feel of that movie Let it be Nazriya. I read comments that all laughed seeing Basil Quite natural Our acting was very natural. It is just the attitude But Basil, you were looking so hot and handsome Say about that song Is that song a part of the movie or a promo song? It is actually a promo song The story line has to do a lot with this This is the theme of the movie But the characters are not like this I had a Devananad look Now sing that song That mandhahasam was very confusing I have the lyrics with me Somebody has to poke, only then it will come You can ask her to sing. She doesnt know to read Malayalam He meant they had asked me to sing the original song I heard it was Sanskrit No point telling people who dont know Sanskrit or Malayalam Nazriya knows Malayalam. What are you saying? Yeah! What are you saying? When you were eating rice, wasn't I speaking in Malayalam on tv? Wasn't it rice that you were eating? When your mom fed you You didnt have common sense then She is a Malayali Keralites are gonna give you for this for saying I dont know Malayalam I speak good Malayalam Nobody has ever come to me saying this Can't I say a joke? Guys, we are just shooting this. Dont kill him. Leave him alone Both of you are amazing actors. He is a director. You are a producer You are juggling with many roles She sings too After marriage, you have so many friends. You are balancing everything so beautifully. How do you do this? I love doing all these things Home and that home routine. I love that time. Now I am back after 4 years I managed to get that enough time and do it. When you love to do it, you find time to manage doing it without cribbing I enjoy them Anything I dont enjoy, I dont do At home, who takes more effort to set the house, let it be curtains or the bedroom. Who would do the interiors and all? Fahad or Nazriya? Me If he doesnt like it, he says. He has the taste. But I am the one who does that. I like changing the furniture sometimes There is a scene in Banagalore Days When you draw on the glass, he gets angry But when he sees the coloured sunrays, he is happy He isn't that rude Obviously He will appreciate a lot But not as talented as me The main thing in this show is rapid fire Yes. You have to spit fire Is it a competition? Yes. We have a hamper Is it s competition? The person who wins can choose the hamper When we become competitive, we reach two extremes The hamper is amazing You have no idea how we become. We never appreciate each other Dont start now. Let us move to the game. If you are stuck in a room, whom would you call first? You shouldnt say your wife's name I will call her You wont get bored. You can go on talking Who is the best dancer? Tovino or Basil? Of course, it's me. What's the doubt? You dont have to ask such a question It has come faster than rapid Haven't you seen my dance? I have seen it. But I am not able to decide. Were you so confused? Which is the comment that you have seen on Instagram that you can never forget I remembered a pic with my child Someone put a cross to thandha vibe And put vibe thandha and a tick That is a nice comment. Vibe thandha! Wrong for the first and tick for the second Your favourite sweets Sweets? All Brownie A troll you read and laughed a lot Troll? Show them that Show me It is a good one. Many of you would have seen that. Tovi after the pooja.. Karma was very fast Show me Do you want to make it viral here too I am seeing Basil now. You are supposed to be seeing me. He is the ambassador I am the one of the team who lost That is why they are angry The team that won would hug me That day he made fun of Tovino Karma gave him back Send me that. Let me send it to Tovi I shall send it to you I will be there somewhere on top You have sent it. Thanks Done. Next question is fun If I ask you to sing a song, which one would it be? Sing it for us Should sing all of a sudden He has a lyrical one with him That is it. Nothing with the tune If you could direct a movie of your life, what genre would it be? Tragic comedy Rom-com On one side Where is the Rom? 80s? Romantic comedy? Com-com Full comedy Which is the moment you have blushed to core in your life? I just now showed you that I showed you fresh Basil, what would be the advice you would give a person who doesnt have hope to have hope? Stay positive Everything happens for a reason They would give you one if you say that That is what their problem is. They cannot think positive Let me say the answer Everything would happen for the good. Would someone rob a wallet for a good reason? It may be for another reason that has made him reach there What if there was a bomb in it? He would keep it there and then done. He has come out with a wallet having a bomb and walking around If you weren't an actor or dierctor, what would you be? Nothing It is his rapid fire I am doing it faster. He is so slow I only know these two I would be working in IT What job? He says he is an engineer What have you graduated in? Engineering. I at least passed it. She didnt even pass . I dropped out I am B.Com first class and she .. Hope you would have understood that there is no point in all these A big round of applause for Basil. All are tired She has interfered a lot in yours. Dont let go Now we have questions for Nazriya Who gets ready fast? Nazriya or Fahad? Nazriya I know it doesnt look like it But it is Nazriya Shanu likes to get ready at the last minute He likes to be the last one fresh out My wife is the same At the last minute No. That is me Ok. The opposite I think all the boys are like that. Even Srini does that I get irritated When I would be ready to leave, he would say he wants to take a bath Right. It is so irritating And they are very smart They want to be the latest fresh We have to be ready and wait We would be sweating when we start putting make up My wife starts planning a month ahead I would be thinking what is plans for the evening. We can see that She would be writing notes on what to take and buy for the next trip She would have ordered online and packed her box She would have packed her box a week ahead She says, Basil, can I tell you something? I have finished packing That is when it strikes me that we are going on a trip soon I am like that Srini would ask for his tooth brush. I would have packed that a week ahead So dont you brush your teeth till then? It has happened to him. He asks me for his shampoo. I say its all packed. Are you going on a trip soon? No soap too He is so smart He thinks too much Your favourite cuisine Indian. I always like Thalaserry Kannur food. Their food is too good If not in life, the best advice you got from films Dont act anymore You better stop today itself I tried that for 4 years She said if not in life, then from movies He is trying to defeat you in your rapid fire Majority of the people who have seen me has said not to change Don't change. I think that is a good thing People will say lot of negativity. We shouldnt fall for that We are women of 2024 I was going to say something good Sorry sorry Cancelled Please please I take it back She thinks she is something I was just saying it in advance It is good trying to maintain that What I meant being so old I told you. He deserves more Poor girl Even at this age, My brains are at the same level Yeah. Just like for 40s Let me move to the next one If you get a change to do a sequence from a movie you acted, which one would you choose? Would be nice if I said Raja Rani The dead person would get up and say I am not dead. I am not dead I wont die until I get ice cream A ghost coming to buy ice cream How about trying that out Another person also died at the same spot He would think what is happening My rapid fire was more fun than his He will come and say butter scotch Ice cream Rani Would be great What if I want one from Sookshma Darshini Let us see it first. And then shall tell you Wait till then She is back I didnt get a gap at all Sookshma Darshini is a potential movie Wasn't I saying rice? You laughed for that joke The words weren't different I am making use of the moments to put you down Pearle will stand with me very rarely Who would be the one friend from the industry that you would call at 2am? At 2am.. Now it is him He would be awake at 2am He would say Hello.. Good Morning.. I began night shoots since the last 2 months So now you are a batman He is like oh! And she the joker A movie scene that took you away the most in your life The movie Bangalore Days was a take away for me I took one item home It was a physical take away My rapid fire is awesome. You have to show your favourite movie dialog Which movie is that? Neram Ok. With Nivin That is one dialog I can think of fast You had asked one from my movie only, right? Yes. From your movie I like one sequence of Om Shanti Oshana too She is so cute da I felt so then You didnt find me cute when I showed it live? I couldnt connect it much with Om Shanti Oshana But defenitely, when I saw the movie that day, I was your fan Fix on to one. When watching the movie on screen, it is ok But when I see it bored now, it would have its own differences When the camera, director, cinematographer all put together brings you out beautifully But when you show it simply here, That is true. Nothing happens only by us You too should think of that Nobody can troll this interview Everything is happening here itself We wont allow anybody to take over us I myself am trolling Done? Not yet. Some fans said they would kill him She doesnt have fans Somebody was asking her yesterday why arent you starting a fans association She can start one only if she has fans He is going over board I am not able to stop laughing Nazriya's fans shouldnt attack me for this There is not much of Nazriya fans Now he will seriously get into that Who knows you? They took pictures with me They didnt even look at you Last day we had food and were sitting there Few children and their parents were coming They came to me, spoke a lot and took pictures They werent even looking at her Were you wearing a cap? She was standing there and playing like this I am Nazriya And the other one Nothing They didnt go to her at all They left him and he went inside. After that, they were taking pictures with me. They wanted to avoid him How many million followers do you have? 8.3 Whatever How many do you have? 250k Why did you ask about Instagram? Let me say about that Her Instagram is like fire I am coming to that point. Let me tell you She posted some reel last day Suddenly she sees 15 comments in a second. When she opened the comments, it was contact so and so.. I want love .. DM me Out of her 8 million followers, 7 million are.. Hope all of you are hearing all this He says that is what I get in my comments I dont have such followers. All are original They never comment They would comment only if there is something to comment on How many followers do you have? Seriously 2 lakhs 2 lakhs? Pearle.. You were saying something like that. 2 million Just missed a zero A very small zero miss I felt heavy like She got scared You lost. I won atleast in one. There are some people who speak a lot. But you dont see it in their work. You can see their followers on Instagram Like the confusion we had.. 2 lakhs? Like Swetha Gupta 8.3 million DM me That is because it is working And have followers Do you have followers in your account They at least commented in a second Try to direct your next movie soon How do people comment before posting the pic? What is the trick behind that? What's up with your Hindi movie? Nice question The only way to stop What is the one thing that is always in your hand bag? Other than money Always in my handbag? Yes. You will not go out without that Make up Most of the women are like that only If you say that comment, all the women will get hurt Sorry. He does a lot of wrong talks actually Wronggg This is wrong Then ask what else other than money and make up, what else Ok. Anything other than money and makeup I always have mint in my bag Not a very mint like.. You wanted something very interesting, right? I have an air tag in my bag Because I keep it here and there Your favourite travel destination? We know you travel a lot. Europe. Barcelona, right? My friends are asking me why am I not taking a ration card at Barcelona Why Europe? I love the people there I love the food there It is a beautiful place But when I went.. He went in search of dosa He says he couldnt get it anywhere. Dont you get dosa there? He didnt go Even I haven't gone. That is why I asked I have gone. You have been to Europe? When Just last week Where did you go? Is Georgia in Afghanisthan? Right. He had gone to Georgia Both loved that A movie that you saw recently that made you cry and put you down This is the last question It can be recently or any time Thanmatra was a movie I watched and cried a lot You saw that recently She said or anytime Hello... mic testing.. Hello.. Ok ok What is happening here? I really think both of you should start a You Tube channel Simply to sit and talk Even we had said that A big round of applause for both of them The audience are not clapping. Let us clap our hands Tell me about how you are balancing You are going to work as a director With a big bollywood star Switch on and switch off as a director and an actor, How do you do that? I think it is a bit more well managed for Nazriya Well managed because like I said I take time. I choose Basil is a back to back monthly hero Monthly star I call myself Vimal Kumar. I had laughed a lot watching Guruvayoor Ambala Nadayil He calls me Olympic Star because I come after 4 years Seriously? Yes.. every 4 years Is leap year every 4 years? Can say like that too. Shall call her Leapiest star Leap star Your comedy didnt work out here That is because you said it. I had told you that day itself that it doesnt have that good standard You didnt believe it then Now what happened? When you say it in your way, it sounds like that Dont trust me. Ok ok Mine is a bit more aggressive I didnt do it to make it aggressive It just went out of my hands To be frank he would say it is out of his hands I meant in terms of management and time It was a bit hectic managing both together It wasn't properly managed I want to make it bit more better now on Management and time I never expected to reach such a responsible role as an actor. I had never planned to do any lead roles So all my priorities was for a director only When both came together, I had to give equal importance to both I am directing big movies on one side I have to give time for that too I cannot do both at a time. I have to pause one and do the other I dont have the capacity to do multi tasking Leave multi tasking. I am giving you both in a bowl Acting and directing. Which one do you have more for? Directing Without flinching. He said that in a second. Director is a captain of the ship We are the ones who are coordinating and driving it You mean, you like to boss around? I like all of you under my control I cant imagine him being a bossy character I cannot even think of Basil being angry I have heard that he becomes angry You have only heard it but never seen him get angry After speaking a lot, I have heard incidents All those are just incidents Just 1 or 2. But still less We have lot of pressure on us. Then it goes out of our hands You are not multi talented, so you will have pressure In such a situation, I would surely choose director I would want to give more time to it going forward I have noticed the movie making style in Basil His pattern is even very interesting for kids It is difficult to make kids sit in front of a movie. For eg, Nila Even you have a baby You have very few movies kids watch They watch only cartoons Though your movie has real life characters and scenes in it, Let it be sound or some element, there is something that the kids want to watch Same mentality and same age I had messaged Tovi that day I wasn't friendly with Basil at that time But I had messaged Tovino Minnal Murali had released online on Netflix, Nilu was a baby then, but she watched the entire movie I think she was away only when a song came She was watching the rest of it. I think that was the first film you said she watched I was wondering what was the factor that made her sit? There is a child in that and she was watching. I even messaged that Nila enjoyed it. How do you bring that element in movies? Is it a conscious effort? No it is not a conscious effort. All of us have a child in us. It is little more in you I am not a very matured or deep person in my life You are deep But he is very easy and fun That may be what is reflecting in movies. Tovi also has a shade of that as an actor When both collaborates, it is fun The audience is watching him He is able to carry it correctly too At the same time there will be an invisible director's signature too in it. When it is clubbed together, it should be appealing for kids Kids already are thrilled when it is a super hero genre Those scenes were crafted having that in mind Kids would love the lyrical songs and all Let us move to Nazriya's movies. Though she comes rarely, she is a busy actor You did a Telugu movie which was a super hit Tell me how was it going to work with different languages I used to not watch Telugu movies also then I couldnt follow anything they said But I had loved the story and actually had not seen the director's previous 2 films So you just loved the movie Yes. I sat full fresh in front of a person for narration You can judge a successful person for sure But recently 2-3 movies old, I sit like fresh I never thought of the language. But once committed, I wonder what was I thinking But I really work hard towards it I sat with my tutor for all the scenes and he used to tell me the story I dubbed too. Like said earlier, when you like something, you work towards it Your look in that movie was so adorable She used to post a vanity van on a story as BTS or so I used to say she is wearing a nic top and shorts. So cute. She looks like a doll You like that movie. You have told me She looks so cute in that movie. I too liked that movie. I had messaged her after that Though we didnt know each other, I had messaged her I want to show you something. Do you want to know what our team did? They went Where To the road They asked the public This is going to be hectic They asked the public what they had to say on you Let us listen to what the public has to say I am Nazriya's fan We wish she comes back to movies like earlier I had seen Jaya Jaya movie Did you really get the kick or Nazriya is a very loving child She acts so well I like Guruvayoor Ambala Nadayil the most of Basil sir Minnal Murali was a good movie We like Nazriyas Om Shanti Oshana and Bangalore days I liked Basil and Prithviraj meeting and hugging for the first time scene Basil's Kunjiramayanam and Minnal Murali was excellent Guruvayoor Ambala Nadayil is an awesome movie We like Nazriyas Om Shanti Oshana I like Basil Josephs direction and acting a lot. It has been a while since Nazriya acted Bangalore days is a good one. I like all the movies by Basil He is awesome as a director Nazriya is one of my favourite actress We like Basil Sir's comedy scenes the most Nazriya, whom have you been inspired by and took as a model Would like to see how do you utilize it in your acting Nazriya is very cute. I have a doubt Is she following any diet? When will Basil's Hindi movie be ready? For this one video we had to go to Mumbai Will you have to reply in Hindi? Watch that again When will Basil take a Hindi movie? Reminds me of Babu Namboodiri in Karikku See what is written on his t-shirt. Never perfect, but always Might be but always imperfect First reply to Nazriya's question Do you follow a diet No, I dont really She meant how do you always stay so cute There are times I do. I bloat up soon actually I keep a watch on what I have but I dont have a diet Nothing such as I eat only so and so particulartly. I eat everything When I feel it is going out of track, I hold on to it She has always been cute da Cute da! Why is it that you dont have anything to say for this Nachu and Bichu An answer for that question When? This is not by me. The public already knows it Shall give Dhyan Srinivasan for this. It will come sometime What happened? Is it Dhyan who said this? Who leaked this? Dhyan I dont leak any of your secrets Then why did you say I am like him. Why? Don't go for a war with him I won't. I am asking you a question How is it when Dhyan and Nazriya are together We have never sat together You should Dont laugh a lot. You are going to get from me once you are out from here This is his last laugh You can reply that in Hindi itself You can call him bro I think when you use the word padega with difficult words in Hindi, it will be great Let us say the next answers in Hindi I shall take a good question for that All those who were ready for a chance will run away now Are you trying to put him in trouble? Why did you choose this movie? Speak for him You say first. He will copy me She knows Hindi Even I know little You are the one who doesn't know to polish a shoe. So polish and learn it. Boss, he knows to do it. So he will do it. It is a very expensive question The story is very good Not now. You mean it was What happened to it now? It was a story then. Now it has become a movie How did it happen? Did you mean how are you? Dont use Malayalam words The story was good No appam There is no appam in Hindi They only have parathas Good joke. I like that You have already said that Let me say the rest. Wait. Dont loose my concentration Yes. I am not able to focus At the back of it, we had good Good... Humans Behind whom? You said behind someone But you didnt say who The blouse? Only we are laughing for these jokes You should also laugh The producers were good Have they turned to pictures? What did they become at the end? At that time they were producers. Now what are they? It was a past tense Where there is hum, there will be a hey Say the rest of it. I am You will have to say Why did you put a padega there? Dont use padega wherever you want Say fast. I have to perform in Hindi next And then Hindi directors will start to call me. The banner is very good. Did you say minor? Banner. Happy Hours entertainment All of them were supporting. Luckily you dont have to say names in Hindi I wonder what is the Hindi for their name Sameer is already a Hindi name Sameer saab and Shaiju Saab All 3 of them are very well experienced cinematographers The producer is AV Anoop Sir The story? The story was very good. The story was good, is good, will always be good. Dont use the past tense again Just say hai.. the present tense During Minnal Murali, Not Minnal Murali.. speak on Sookshma Darshini During Minnal Murali shoot, Sameer was Good Sameer saab was the cinematographer for Minnal Murali Sameer bro I dont know Now Sameer will ask you are we enemies He will ask why did I speak about him here All of you should watch this movie Basil is trying to say something It is a story of a neighborhood There are lot of neighbours in a community Say the Hindi word for neighbours When she asked to you say the story, you didnt Now when I am saying the story, you are trying to catch on to that A community with lot of neighbours No need to say neighbourhood, say people in your country What do you say for neighbour? Small country men Like Vatican city A small village like Wont that also have a word in Hindi? He is not letting me speak in Hindi What will they say for milligram Village in Hindi is gaav. What are you talking? You acted in this movie It wasn't a village Any animals there? It was like a housing colony A small community with just 4-6 houses Not more than that Myself and my family, Pooja, Akhila lived there This movie has lot of women And just one male? More than one Sidharth Bharathan, Deepak Parambol, Kottayam Ramesh etc When he and his family comes to that community to stay for rent, The daily routines and rhythms of that community begins to change Now that is the story I go and ruin their lives Now you say the climax This reminds me of the other person Get up and go is what he says at the end So this is the story Yes. This is the story So it is connected to houses Yes. Very relatable A detective one happening in 2024 A family thriller where you would sit on the edge of your seats You had heard the whole script and then acted in it, right? Are we back to Malayalam? Audience will have to sit at the edge of their seats and watch the movie Biting their nails Exactly I dont know to say that in Hindi Could you cut please. I dont know what is happening here What's happening to me? I never felt anything like this in this studio before I am tensed. My heartbeat has gone up. I can feel how the audience would be now This is how my guests are Did you see Sai Pallavi's episode? How was it? Poor girl I was thinking the same I saw the episode had many views I thought she would have spoke a lot When I watched the video, Sai Pallavi didnt speak anything All she did was she sang a song Sing.. I want TRP Or dont talk She sang a song In 42 minutes, all we saw was she singing a song Then all she said was to cut the song Rest of the time, Pearle was talking She sang And then she was asking to cut it She kept saying that She was torturing her She would say she won't act in a Malayalam movie again The best was she came to this show I can guarantee you that you will have the best views for this. You have come to the best place like they say in Kumblangi Nights I have one more segment. Will give both of you something to hold It will have your faces on it. To whom do you feel this statement matches more, show his face Are you ready? Tell me how are your photos. Good one I liked his more. His is superb My dear Pearle You are against me from Prep onwards Look at your pic I thought she was bullying me only after I reached here Look at your smile in this I doubt if a hate campaign is happening against me How much did they pay you? That is because you are behaving rude to me Nazriya fans gave me this Who? Shweta Gupta? DM me Show me that reel Take your phone on live camera We have two 100% here I am asking you to put a post now and see what will come first You will know then We know that you are paying people to post these messages He is not even getting one Whoever wants followers in social media, 15/- for 500 followers There are dragon eggs also in that This is her 8 million All fall under this 8 million That is what I too said. 7 million out to of that is of this kind. She has just 1 million proper followers Why are you not having such messages Mine is organic. I dont boost up How do I boost up? You might be paying people Enough. This will damage us at the end. I will not admit to loose for no reason He doesnt have anything to loose He doesnt have anything ... to loose. That's good. That is why I am not coming into that Pearle... You can name this game Listen carefully and say who is more connected to this First question. Who comes late to the set Who would binge watch late night series and complete it You do that? You watch it in one go? Of course. Killing it. Who would play pranks at the set? Who would randomly dance during shoot breaks? Both of you? No wonder Who would get more emotional watching a movie scene Who would try out extreme sports like sky diving or bungee jumping? I am scared Who would laugh all of a sudden when shooting a serious scene? He does it more, but I also do it. Without thinking of the mic being on, who says more of unwanted things That is what is happening here too And then we come to a discussion on what were we actually talking about Did I say anything bad? Will it be an issue? That would be the only serious conversation between us in our life. What do you think? Was it ok? This is the only thing we would speak seriously in our life I did that by mistake. What will happen now? Maybe that is the reason he is not smiling at me You may think about that too Who is more of a fitness freak? Doesn't look like it Pearle is like no way! Sorry. My face was too expressive. Really? Of course. He does so much of hardwork to look like this. A person who would travel anywhere in the world to try a dish Have you gone like that for a try? Not so far But the chances are for me only Ok Who says a joke and laughs too A big round of applause for both of them. All the very best for the movie Sookshma Darshini In the movie, the combination is not at all like this. Our chemistry in the movie is completely different. We shall see that in the movie. When is the release date of the movie? 22nd November I added that so that nobody forgets So that they would remember 22 Smart move What happened? He wouldnt have felt that so smart Today's episode was awesome. According to me, Nazriya won the rapid fire I shall take this. So cute Thank you It looks so cute I didnt feel like it was an interview. I felt like some friends came home and we had a blast We wanted to have your interview I think this is the first time, I didnt even look at the camera much Usually I always take a break in between too Here we didnt take a break or even have time to breathe properly We asked for your interview. We said let's sit with Pearle All 3 of us can sit, talk and enjoy I didnt get a time to crack my kind of jokes Today I see how good and simple I am I understood that today To hold on with both of you, I had double expresso and 2 red bulls before coming I was not able to bear her from yesterday When he said that as soon as he came, I was wondering why is he saying that It was Clash of the Titans here We had an amazing episode All the best for this movie You have to go and watch it the first day. I will message you I will watch with you guys. Just take me along with you I shall arrange baby sitters. We shall join you when you are going You take care of the kids. I will watch the movie and tell you guys how it was She has already decided that you take care of the kids Let us wind up with a baby segment I am going to give a person to you. With whom she doesn't cry, that person is the winner. You lost Let us see to whom will she come I have a soft toy with me You cannot use properties Nitu You can run with her now. Look at this. She is looking at who is this comicola She will not come to you at all if you do that I too am a father A famous vibe father Come on Srini