Hey everyone, welcome In today's video, we are going to be doing a for beginners. This video is going to go of Merch Informer, and I'm even going to share on how I use Merch Informer myself for my print on demand business. So without further ado, let's and get straight into this tutorial. All right, so if you are this is their homepage here. Essentially what Merch Informer is, is a print on demand tool designed to help you discover things that other sellers won't be able to find and save you a ton of time in the process. Now, that will make a lot more sense as we start to walk but that's essentially what the tool is. Now, with that being said, one of the most important before we get into this tutorial is how much does it cost and So if you come up top here this is going to show you their two different pricing options. Now, Merch Informer is a paid tool. So in order to use it, you have They have a Newbie plan For most things that you you can use their Newbie plan. However, if you do get you're going to have a that you're allowed to do every day. You're also going to get access to their monthly vector pack. These are all custom hand-drawn graphics new every single month that you're allowed to use in They're not available anywhere So you get custom graphics this way. And then you're also going to get access to their single upload interface, where you can basically upload one design to multiple different print on Now, in addition to that, we were mentioning do they And yes, they actually do. I have a personal coupon code from them. It's for 20% off. So you can use this on the Newbie plan or you can use it on I'll put a link to that down If you do wanna manually type it in, you can just type in Greg20 at checkout. That'll give you the 20% off. Now, the last couple that are super important to these are the prices here. If you do sign up for the prices drop quite a bit. And then if you use that 20% off coupon, it brings it down to almost $6 per month. Now, the very last thing about is that they do have a free trial. So no matter what plan you wanna do, you get three full days to use So for the sake of this tutorial, if you don't have a plan set up yet, you're welcome to use a free trial and you can follow along in this tutorial. All right, with all of that outta the way, let me get logged into my account and we'll get started in this tutorial. All right, so once you open up your Merch Informer account, this is what it's going to look like. All of their different features So as you click on these, they open up into dropdowns of Now, instead of just going instead, I'm going to cover what I think are the most important and most valuable features and then afterwards, we'll go through all the rest So with that being said, let's start with my favorite This is called the Competition Checker. So if you click on that, it Now, what this tool does any idea that you were thinking about creating print on you click Search, and it's instantly going to tell you, &quot;Yes, you should go into that niche,&quot; or, &quot;No, you should not.&quot; So to give you an example of give that a search, and here So if you look over on the right side, this is the most important This is going to give you a letter grade. So remember back in school, you got an A if you did really well and you got an F if you failed, well, that's what this scoring So you get an A, B, C, D, E or F. So an F is telling us right off the bat that the fishing niche is Now, the reason for this is because it's saying that The reason I know that is because it says there already listed on Amazon and That tells you right off the bat that if you're going into fishing, generally, there is already and way too many of them Now there is more to this tool that we'll talk about in a second here, but the reason that this is you just saved yourself thinking about and creating designs and listing them in fishing. Now, the way to actually use this tool is to type in more specific ideas. So for example, if we we gave that a search. Just like that, we can see that So this is a great niche to The reason for that, only 102 of them are selling. So there are very little products listed and even fewer of them So this is a wide open The only way that I would know that this is a good niche to the Competition Checker. Now as mentioned, there are So to show you what these are, the best selling designs within whatever niche these are the most popular keywords that they are using in their listing. So when you are creating your because you just found a good one, these are the keywords throughout your title, your It's all laid out very easy for us. We don't have to go over to Amazon, search through all of them and then see what keywords they're using. Now in addition to getting all the keywords laid out right here, you also get what the in that sub-niche. So you will get bestsellers and these are going to You can kind of browse through these, and you can see what are in this sub-niche, and then you can use that as inspiration when creating your own designs. Okay, so now that you know how to use the Competition Checker, let's now move into my of Merch Informer, and this So to get here, you go you go down, and it's the first So the purpose of the Keyword Finder is to help you come up with within those overall niches. So for example, we did and we came up with deep sea fishing. Well, you may be wondering how did I come up with deep sea fishing? Well, if you type in an like fishing, you give that a search, this is going to break into tons of different sub-niches. So you've got Amazon sub-niches and you've got Google sub-niches broken down by how many And by default, it's only going to put But as you can see, there are So if you go back up to the top and you sort this by 100 at a time, this will allow you to just keep scrolling and make this a lot more efficient. So as you can see, this or the phrase that This is how many people So 25,000 people. We are going to scroll through here until we find sub-niches within fishing. So right off the bat, we've got alligator fishing, All of these get over 1,000 people searching for them every month. So this is where this tool actually starts to get really cool. Now, instead of just and then having to go back and type that in and you can click on this little for each one of these in real time, it's quickly going to load it and it's going to open that up. And this is the competition So now, you can type in any niche, you can see what are all these and you can quickly click should you go into this Now, you can start taking all these ideas that you got an A score for and copy-pasting them into a list that you can go create designs on later. So that is a really cool tool in here and it's so easy you just go through here. You can just click on the details icon and just going to pull So again, american fishing, you put American flag and That's a great niche to go into. Okay, so let's close out of this. Those are the first two tools that have a ton of value but the third one is a super This one is over in Trademarks, and then go to Trademark Alerts. Now, what this tool is going to do is once you've found these you can type in all of the phrases that you're thinking about and check to make sure that Now, this is the only real that you have to pay attention to legally. Before you use a phrase you have to make sure that nobody else owns the rights to that It is possible that any person or company could have formally that you want to use on a T-shirt so that nobody else can use it. So that is exactly what this tool does. So once you come up with your ideas that you want to put on your designs, just type them all in You can type in as many and search them all at once. So let me type in a couple examples. Okay, so I just typed in five different design ideas right here. All we have to do now is click Save, and then click this blue button right here that says Check Trademarks. Now, when you scroll down, you are going to get either a This tells you instantly on as many designs as if you are allowed to use So here's a perfect example. All of these are free to use on T-shirts. We can use them for our But this one specifically So you don't wanna be putting and listing it or you're going and you're going to get a If you get too many of these your entire account gets taken down from that print on demand website. So that is why using a tool So just like that, we've gone through my of Merch Informer. I would say even if the at this point, it would still be well worth to access these. They are going to save you so much time and they'll actually protect So now, let me show you a that I like and then we'll go So if you go up to Product you can go to Movers and Shakers. And what this tool will help you do is find trends that are So all you have to do is switch from Daily, Weekly, or Monthly. I like to use it on Monthly the And as you start scrolling through here, you have 12 pages of but this is going to show you that the shirt is set at, and then purple is going So just so this makes sense on Amazon, the lower sales rank means that you're getting So although this looks that actually means that So it's starting to sell a lot more. It went 3 million down to 100,000. That means that starting this shirt started to sell a lot. Now, the last part of this is the price is that as they changed the you can see did it Did it go back up and slow down in sales? And you can see that and these sales still This just gives you a little on if you are creating that is just starting to trend, what you could price that at So with that being said, just Christmas in July, this is just starting to sell really well. That is a trend that is just happening. If you were scrolling through Amazon, trying to identify these trends, you would have a lot harder of a time. This just sorts it all for you. Okay, so building off of this tool, which is going to help really early on. Another really helpful tool to do kind of a similar process here is if you go to Product Research and you go to Merch Archive, this is going to take all of for sales, what has been and allow you to sort So you can go back a couple years time, and you can say, &quot;Okay, let's look at October 5th, This is going to show you on October 5th, what was selling the best? So all these shirts are This shirt sold about 900 So as we're going into this year, you can start planning around October 5th, you want to have shirts like this. And also, by the way, these that sold really well a couple years ago. This is just a super effective two years, five years to see what sold really well back then and then building off of those to create something even better and then time that so really well to get those sales. Now, before we get into kind of going one there's one more tool that This is one that not It's a quick one that is super helpful. If you go down over here to Tools, you can go to Merch Calendar. And this, although you could find something having this built-in It's going to show you all of the holidays in different countries, and it's going to show you all And then all of these are design ideas that you can create designs on and many other people aren't So as you jump around here, you can find kind of the bigger ones, or you can just create And even if you just get a it's not any huge money-maker. As that comes around each year, you are going to be the building up the sales, all of these unofficial small holidays. Okay, so that covers my favorite tools within Merch Informer, but there are a lot of tools So let's start going so you know how to use all the features within Merch Informer. So starting out at the very top here, once you open up your this is where you're It's the Learn tab. And this is going to give you all of their specific tutorials on each one of these features. So as you're going through here, if you forgot how to use you can either come back to this video or you can click in here on how to use that specific feature. Now, I will say that these so some of these features or they've been improved. So these specific tutorials than what the tools currently look like. So with that being said, and you can learn as much We're going to start in Product Research with the first tool, which So the Product Search is made for you to type in a specific phrase for a shirt and see how much competition there is on that specific phrase. So if we typed in here, and we gave that a search. This is going to give us throughout here, just laid of what that Competition So you have your you've got some related and then you've got the top So although I don't really this tool is going to give you a good idea of is this specific phrase something that is super competitive or is there still room to go into it? And then what are the top selling designs that are using that specific phrase? This will give you a good idea of what people are actively buying, and that you can use as good inspiration when you're creating your own designs. Now one other feature that's nice in here is it tells you the lowest and the average price. This is helpful so that when to go into that similar niche, you know what to price your shirt at. So that is the Product Search. I would say this one's very similar to the Competition Checker, so I just use the Competition Checker, but that's how this one works. Now moving on from here, you So this is a very specific use case here. So when someone creates a design they enter a brand or for those designs. So to show you what this when you are looking at and that's what this was right here. So it's called Fishing Apparel. Well, if you were to type in it's going to show you all the designs created under that same brand. So let's type that in real So these results are for as their brand name on the shirts. Now the idea here is who is a really good competitor in a space that you want to go into, you can type in their brand name here and you'll get all of the results and you'll get some data about them. And the reason that I is if you just come in here and you click on Fishing it's going to bring you to So like I said, it's a but if you do wanna use it, Okay, coming back over here, So this is actually a really cool tool, and I'm going to show you What this tool is going to of the top 100 selling on Amazon Merch on Demand. So all you have to do and then excluded brands, you this is going to put in that get a ton of sales, and the idea here is that those ones already get a ton of sales, so it's going to filter them out and just show us the who are creating designs So once you've done that, just come down here and hit Search. And now you've got yourself As of right now when you are searching it, this shirt has an estimated 1,100 sales, this one, 540 sales, and you can really just and see if you can come up with any ideas. Now, it's cool to see this and try to find this information yourself, you can't sort the data So you need a tool like this to do it. But this is really just going to give you some general ideas. I like very specific ideas so it's very actionable. So this isn't something Rather what I would do is come up here and type in an overall niche. So if you type in fishing and then you go down it's going to show you the in any given niche. This is where this tool So in the overall niche of fishing, these are the top selling designs. This is where whatever you can see what are and use that as inspiration So that is the Merch Hunter. The two ways you get the overview or type in a niche and you're going to get some Okay, so moving on from here, we've got Etsy and Pinterest Search. What this tool helps you do is instead of looking just you can actually search like fishing, over on Etsy, So let's first start with Etsy. And now you can scroll through here and see on Etsy for this what are people buying, and see if you can come up with any ideas that you didn't see over on Amazon, and just kind of take and create something over on Amazon. Now, I would say the best thing to do here is to come over to Sort This is just going to put things that people have at the beginning of these results, just so you're going to see what people are actually buying first. Okay, so that's how you do that on Etsy. If you just switch this to Now you're going to get all Now, Pinterest is all photos, so you're just going to that you can use, but you can even get like stuff like this, or you can take some of these phrases, see if they're low competition, make sure nobody has trademarked them, and go ahead and use them on So that's the Etsy and the It's really just to give you some ideas and think outside of the Okay, so coming back over to the left, we already went through that's for finding real-time trends, the next feature is the Trend Tracker. This is almost identically but it's going to do it over So you can go up to three If you click Search, you're so you can see all the instead of just out to one month at a max. If you're going to use one of these tools, I would say just use You're going to get really So the Trend Tracker is something that I don't find Okay, moving right along, we already went through the Merch Archive. That's for looking back in time and seeing what was we already went through now let's open up Keyword Research. We already went through Now, let's go to the Keyword Cloud. Okay, so the way that and it's actually going as the Trending Phrases, is just like the Merch Archive, you can go back in time and you can click on a specific And now, instead of showing you the bestselling designs at that time, you can see the bestselling phrases. So this is going to give and three words. I would say really focus on This is where you're going So by combining a couple of you can go back in time on and you can see what was So November 14th, probably And then you can come down here and you can get ideas So using just a girl, or girl it could be something like, and that could be a kid shirt, or, &quot;Just a girl who loves These are just brainstorming ideas, but they're giving you the phrases instead of the actual designs. So that's how the Keyword Cloud works. If you go to Trending Phrases, it's going to be kind of the same thing. This is going to be the phrases I would say you can use either of these and you're still going to Okay, coming down to the Niche Hunter, this is another cool tool. So this is going to tell you, &quot;This week, these are and the top selling So as you scroll down here, it's only going to show you 10 at once. So the first thing I would so you can keep scrolling So you can look at what the keyword or the niche or sub-niche is, and then you can get an idea of what people are actively buying, as what kind of designs you should create. So all of these have over And just really scroll through here and see if you can see any designs that you wanna create as well. It's just another way to brainstorm ideas and find different niches Now, keeping this moving in the Trademarks, we usually but the Trademark Hunter So if you already have a ton of listings uploaded on Merch on Demand, that there's no trademark you can copy all of the ASINs. And if you don't know where the ASIN is, if you go over to your shirt, let's use this one, for example, scroll down here and it's Right here is your ASIN. You can copy all of these and you can paste them into a CSV file. And then you can upload that here, and you can search all of Now, what's cool about doing it this way is it takes a little bit of but instead of just checking the phrase that's going to go on the shirt, it's going to check the and the description, all of those to make sure that you have Okay, so we're almost let's go into the Tools, and let's start with the So this is kind of a cool feature if you're just starting If you go over and you go and you copy this ASIN we so I'm just going to and you paste that up here, or what niche you're trying to rank for. So this is a fishing shirt, we'll go to Search, and this how optimized that listing is. So does it have fishing the features, the description, and is the description Well, it doesn't actually So if you scroll up here it says, &quot;Fisherman,&quot; it So that is an opportunity for this listing to switch that to fishing, and it's going to be more instead of fishermen. Now it does say that it has which is up top here. It's got fishing in the which are over here. We've got the features right here, the descriptions right here, so we're doing good on that front. And the last thing is a This description is not If your description is the idea is that it gives to rank your listing on Google. So this listing specifically is 65% optimized. The idea is that you wanna in all of these, and Now as a beginner and print on demand, this is a good way to just But as you get rolling and that you wanna have your keywords your features, your description, then you're not really going Now the next tool over here and the purpose of this with different ways to say the niche that you want to go into, other things that other So if you type in something like fishing, give that a search. These are some other ideas that you can use throughout your title, your features, and your description. You've got sport fishing, you've got sport, you've got field sport. It's just an additional tool It's not something that I think you're going Now the next up on the If you go into your and you export all of your analytics, you can upload them here and you can see them in a It's going to show you over time charts that Merch on Merch on Demand's analytics So by uploading that data in here, it's just going to give you a chart that's a lot easier to understand what's going on in your business. It'll show you how many sales you have, it'll show you how many it'll show you how many returns you have, and you can see how that Okay, the next feature And basically, this is just a notepad So if you're in here and you wanna jot down some ideas, then you can add a new note here and you can put a title, and you can save that. It will show up in your And then continuing to move along, we've already gone through That was for finding If you go to Favorites, this is just going to be If you are going through and you're finding the and you like some of those designs that you wanna keep an eye They will show up in If you're going through the Keyword Finder and you have all of those sub-niches that you wanna go into with an A rating, you can favorite those. They will show up in And then moving on from here, it doesn't actually end just there, you have a couple other tools. These are actually pretty interesting, so let's talk about these. The Merch Informer Lister that you can add to your browser. And then when you are uploading designs to Amazon Merch on Demand, it allows you to pre-fill and make the upload process a lot faster. Now, something that's is that Amazon Merch on Demand has now come out with this feature built into their uploading process. But something that says a as a company is that they knew that this was a problem beforehand and they created this before Amazon even did. So you can kind of do all of They have it built into But moving on to the Merch Designer, the Merch Designer is a built straight into Merch Informer. Now to my knowledge, this so I'm not even going to go through it and it's getting replaced So let's go through this one instead. So this is the inside of It's just a design tool So you can come in here, you can click on any of these templates, and then you can start all within Merch Informer. Now, a couple things here. One, this is included so you don't have to pay That's pretty cool. The second thing is, to my knowledge, this is a work in progress. So they're continuing to add templates, they're continuing to upgrade this tool, and it should just get There is a lot that we could If you guys are interested, let me know and we can for this tool. But if we X outta this and the only thing we are left which is Trademark Protection. This is another really cool It is a free Chrome extension, so you can add it to And then as you are creating your listings on Amazon Merch On Demand, it is going to highlight in real time what is trademark protected. This will help you because even that's going on your design the title you're putting together, the features, the description, you wanna make sure that So that's what this extension does. So guys, hopefully this Again, the 20% off coupon code is down in the description below. If you wanna just type it in manually, you can type in Greg20, and that should give you the 20% off. If you have any questions at all about any of these features, just let me know down in the comments. I'd be happy to help you out. And if you guys enjoyed this video, please just give it a thumbs up. I really would appreciate that. All right, guys, that is it for this one. I'll be seeing you all in the next video.