[Music] I'd like to show you an abyss. Locked within its depths are bewildering and The keepers of this abyss believe they are They are wrong. This abyss is... the universe of SCP, which where community-members create and classify Yet from the site, the franchise has grown to fathom its totality feels like gazing into So, for this entry into the archive, I'll how SCP became one of the most gargantuan And to do that, I have to start at the beginning... On June 22nd, 2007, an anonymous user made a concrete sculpture that moves when left who breaks eye contact with it. The sparse description was accompanied by time, meaningless letters and numbers. Nobody could have predicted that this was Flash forwards several months, and numerous the same label format. Most were rather simple, with SCP-682 for invincible. But the universe was starting to take shape, secret organization responsible for containing And with this framework, things exploded. On the current website, there are more than are exceedingly original. The entry for SCP-2521, for example, contains infographics that are confusing at first, a monster that will appear if it's written It's some genuinely creative horror. But no two entries are the same. SCP-106, or The Old Man, is an unfriendly and hunts humans -- classic, effective horror. SCP-294 is a coffee machine that can dispense musical talent or lethal nuclear waste... Certain posts have achieved unique popularity, like a human in a 15th century plague outfit... mask is part of his body. This entity claims to have a cure to any disease Not every SCP will connect with every person, styles that it's practically a certainty And once you're in, there's no getting the tip of the iceberg. Many of the best entries on the site are text artists to create their own renderings of That original SCP 173, for example, no longer the initial photo was actually an unlicensed Japanese artist Izumi Kato. But don't worry, because there are thousands of which are really creative, like this one before on the channel. But it's not just famous SCPs that get this of art for the most obscure entries -- and of SCPs themselves. When you read an entry that speaks to you, might look like, and since many posts have explodes out into artistic recreations. But when you read an entry like SCP-610 -- or turns humans and animals into blobby tendrils You want to see it move. And you can. There are literally tens of thousands of animations that bring SCPs to life in three glorious, The channel ForlornFoundry is home to some of various anomalies. But complex visuals effects aren't the only Some of the most chilling ForlornFoundry adaptations claustrophobic exploration of SCP-1562: an escape from once you get stuck within its Or the similar SCP-087, a pitch-black staircase My favorite moment in this video is when someone railing, and the anticipated sound of the It's seriously clever filmmaking, conveying And I think that's part of what motivates desire to recreate how the best SCPs feel And I'm guessing that's why there are "IKEA. A place where children could play while their Where friends could share good cheer. This vision has come to pass. IKEA has just opened its 70th store-" The immeasurable spaces is the infinite IKEA -- an retail store that literally never ends. Something about wandering the furniture displays way back to the entrance, has struck a chord digital recreations. I've seen references to the infinite IKEA There are entire fan games about this concept, displays as a gnawing loneliness sets in. It's a sensation that I find... strangely I'm sure many of us have early memories supermarket. Even if it was just for a brief moment, the and there was a sense that you'd never find I think many of the most well-known SCPs are fears, which helps explain their infectious There's something universal about the vertigo store that allows SCPs to leave a wide audience ...But they're also kind of hilarious. Like, being stuck forever in an IKEA is disturbing, that's difficult to quantify. When night falls in the store, faceless monsters you through the dark -- and while logically only adds to the humor. This paradoxical undercurrent of comedy is SCP-1609 was a chair that helpfully teleported someone put it through a woodchipper, turning into peoples' lungs. And while murderous sawdust would be terrifying... it's pretty hysterical in the abstract. And this, I believe, is the other massive Even if every entry won't scare you, chances And the more of these stories you read, the The question of why a never-ending ensemble by the genre-bending horror-comedy film The Probably the closest thing to a big-budget vacationing at a remote cabin unprepared for What at first feels like every horror movie the whole thing is being orchestrated by a type of monster contained in an underground unsuspecting youths to appease the old gods. This overabundance of horrors is the key to A single monster stalking a group of innocents contrasting origins and genres starts to become, And it's this principle that makes the SCP Yet beyond the absurdity of both The Cabin on desensitization. In the film, the technicians in charge of of what they're doing, taking bets on which In many SCP stories, Foundation employees to human suffering after a lifetime of containing And both narratives implicate the viewer as In Cabin in the Woods, the Old Gods are a spectators who demand sacrifice. Likewise, with SCP, the more entries you read, Foundation employee clocking in to their job, The ability of SCP to immerse you, to make -- has made its stranglehold on the internet It leaves you with a desire to go deeper, I'd wager that's why games based on the SCP: Containment Breach is quite possibly of the franchise. The indie game has an easy to understand haunted escape and hunt you through a dimly lit facility. And shortly after its release, Containment counts on playthroughs so high, I'd wager the first place. But like the wiki itself, SCP games have come the most impressive from a standpoint of sheer Released in 2022, this title puts you in the learns about past SCPs while working in the The story is divided into chapters, each a as well be different games. For example, one chapter is dedicated to the -- a 17th century play that causes anyone Appropriately, the chapter itself is chaotic what's real and what's a product of the From an artistic perspective, it's one of SCP, and can at times be genuinely spooky. On the opposite end of the tonal spectrum box that acts as a portal to a Narnia-esque The original entry is famous for its uniquely art style of this chapter is bright and painterly. And the gameplay is equally charming -- instead to bandage the wings of paper dragons and The whole chapter, I kept waiting for things there is some truly tear-jerking stuff as the most part, the chapter retains its storybook Taken as a whole, Secret Files is the ultimate be used to tell stories in any genre. The infinite variability of SCP means that in its totality -- which hasn't stopped SCP: Fragmented Minds is an upcoming crowdsourced a more combat-oriented approach in contrast Fragmented Minds seems to have a lot of passion of a larger dream. There's a phantom of a big-budget, triple-A the feverish hope that one day, a mainline It doesn't seem impossible -- in fact, The majority of the game Control revolves an off-the-books government agency created items called Objects of Power. And if that sounds familiar, it should, because intertwined. The makers of Control have stated that the influenced by the SCP series. Think about that for a second: a major, award-winning game of an indie-internet horror anthology But the connection between the franchises Control takes place within an altered building structure where the Bureau has set up headquarters. Nothing about The Oldest House makes scientific than its exterior, certain rooms are thresholds can only be seen by someone explicitly looking And yet despite this, every description of within are written in the same dry, confident used in SCP entries. The same confidence extends to in-game recordings mind-shattering phenomena like it's all There's even an insane puppet show called children that there's definitely nothing Sure, the building seems malignant and is under control. It only takes a few minutes of actual gameplay is actually, well, in control. The notion that layers of bureaucracy and horrors long term is just an illusion. And the same is true at the SCP Foundation. Despite the Foundation's best efforts, the of administrative dysfunction emerge. As in Control, The Foundation is ultimately against forces they can't truly understand. Many of the most complex recent stories set -- this sense that the Foundation isn't The recent 20-minute film 096 by Klay Abele when the cracks in the Foundation's system The film's title comes from SCP-096 -- a its face -- whether it be directly, via video Yet the other monster haunting the film is laden with internal corruption that can be The fact that this franchise went from a bunch board to something this thematically dense And 096 isn't the only SCP adaptation of SCP: Overlord by Steven Handcock and Evan captures a similar atmosphere of powerlessness. A tightly-wound thriller, it follows a group slowly picked off by an incomprehensible threat that the film never tells you which SCP is These filmmakers have made other shorts set which anomaly the protagonists are dealing shoes and makes everything tenser. There's a clear hunger for cinematic takes has almost eighteen million views. As was the case with the games, I'm sure videos. And some of these new fans will inevitably produce more fan content which will reach cycle -- The idea of a website dedicated the internet is exactly the sort of thing in the ultimate twist, that description applies The SCP series and its popularity is the kind want to contain. But it can't be contained. There are graphic novels, short stories, other fandom seems to be ever-expanding, completely And perhaps that's as it should be. While massive and unwieldy, there is such that I truly believe it has something for In the end, the most important thing the SCP ordinary, passionate creators can leave their I think that's the real secret to its success it may be -- is worth staring into. As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.