Salut Emojoie here. This time we will be making fluffy souffle pancakes. A kitchen scale is not necessary because all ingredients are listed in either teaspoons or tablespoon. Slice a tablespoon like this and weigh it. The flour can be either cake flour or all purpose flour. If you take 3 tablespoons of flour, it will be around 3g depending on the person, but it is still within the range that is not a problem for this recipe. If you inflate with meringue alone, it will wither when it cools down, so add baking powder. Meringue expands when the air expands due to heat, it will return to its original state when cooled. Baking powder is converted into carbon dioxide by heat. So it's harder to wither than meringue. Since it is a spray pancake, the egg white and the yolk are separated, and the meringue is made with the egg white. When making meringue with an electric whipper, there is no problem in adding sugar at any time. In the case of whipping manually, start adding the sugar when foaming like this. Sugar makes the meringue foam finer, but slows the foaming. If you want to make it manually, just add 1 tablespoon sugar and whip, then add some more. Another thing to keep in mind when making meringue is to use a clean bowl free of oil and dust. Plastic bowls are not recommended for meringue because they are made of a material that does not completely remove oil when washed. Use a glass or stainless steel bowl. For those who say that they can't make stiff meringue should be able to solve it if they pay attention to these tips. Add the flour when it is well foamed. Squeeze the dough with a piping bag to make it a harder dough. If the meringue is so hard, using a whipper is better than a rubber spatula. Mix the bottom of the bowl several times with a rubber spatula to finish. You can also use a spoon, but you can make a beautiful pancake with a piping bag. Apply oil when the pan is hot. The temperature is set around 170 deg C. Keep low heat. Add a little water, cover and steam. The time is around 4 minutes. Turn over after the dough has hardened. Cover and bake for around 1~2 minutes. Now it's finished, but it's a pretty thin pancake. The reason for the thin thickness is that the amount of powders is small in quantity and it is easy to wither even if overcooked. This is fluffy and delicious, but I want to eat thicker pancakes! For that reason, I decided to make a mold. Make a loop with a 36cm x 4cm cooking sheet. 11cm in diameter. In addition, the dough is divided into two and baked thick. Cover and heat over low heat for 4 minutes Turn off the heat and wait 4 minutes without touching the lid. Keep the fire on until the dough does not stick to your fingers. Be careful, if the dough is not solidified, it will become a disaster Turn it on high heat and color slightly on the back. If the skewer is stabbed and the dough does not come on, it is heated enough. It was pretty nicely baked There is still thickness even if it is cooled. It's like a souffle pancake Add some maple syrup on. I like it because it is not as sweet as honey and has a good aroma. It looks yummy right? Let's give it a try It's so fluffy and soft! Adding oil to the dough will make it tasty, but it will make it easier for bubbles to disappear. So I put some butter on it later. It's even better with whipped cream. As you can see, it's so soft that it's hard to cut with a knife. Souffle pancakes are fluffy and delicious because there is little flour, There is a drawback that it gets flattened easily and difficult to finish in a beautiful shape. The next solution may solve it a bit. Add cornstarch to finish the meringue. Up to 2 tablespoons for 2 egg whites. Never use flour. The foam will disappear. I haven't tried it with potato starch, but it's probably okay As the amount of flour increases, it becomes a firm souffle pancake. If you add cornstarch, it's hard to wither even when cooled. I think this is easier to make for beginners. Thank you so much for watching today. Salut