London, July 1968 The band the Yardbirds called it quits, but Scandinavia, and lead guitarist Jimmy Page anyway. But they, um....needed a new lead singer and Page's number one choice for singer was instead suggesting Robert Plant, who had been Band of Joy had broken up a couple months Plant accepted the position and recommended Band of Joy, to join the band as well. Page was like "heck yeah," but then Dreja so they now needed a new bassist. Fortunately for Page, his old friend John name of John Paul Jones, wanted in and Page He also could play keys, so that was a bonus. The four played together for the first time Street in London. For the Scandinavian tour, they decided to New Yardbirds. They played their first show at Gladsaxe Teen 1968. The chemistry between the four was pretty So good that just a few weeks later they were Studios based on some new songs they had been Apparently they recorded it in less than 30 out of his own pocket. However, once Dreja found out, he issued a allowed to use the New Yardbirds moniker for That's ok, because Page had a backup name Lead Balloon. Eh? Eh? Ok, after further discussion with the band became arguably one of the best band names Led Zeppelin played their first gig with the on October 25. Now Peter Grant, who was quite an intimidating improve pay and conditions for ALL musicians record companies, got the band a $143,000 November. That's $1.1 million in today's money, kind for a brand new band. But don't just give credit to Peter Grant. Give credit to the British singer Dusty Springfield, In fact, she was so persuasive to Atlantic was that they apparently signed them without Not only that, Atlantic let the band have would release albums, when they would go on albums would be promoted, and whether or not Spoiler alert. They rarely released singles. The band also created their own company, Superhype, After touring the United Kingdom, their new North American tour. While on that tour, Atlantic released their First released on January 12, 1969, it demonstrated else...a new genre, something later just simply The iconic artwork featured an image of the disaster, first photographed by Sam Shere The album was an immediate commercial hit, Rolling Stone magazine, in particular ripped Because of the negative attention from the talking to the press throughout their career. I think music critics didn't know how to In fact, Rolling Stone later praised the album. (kids are gonna love it) The band did release which was also the opening track. Other stand out tracks that ended up on the and "Communication Breakdown." Their self-titled debut is now considered Led Zeppelin spent the majority of 1969 touring That year, they completed FOUR UK tours and They generally avoided television appearances, Meanwhile, they found time to already record at several different studios. Just like with their debut album, Jimmy Page in to help. These songs were even heavier...and...just the mainstream. They wrapped up recording in August, and Atlantic Zeppelin II, on October 22, 1969. Rock radio stations played the heck out of a half minutes long, so pop stations avoided Atlantic was like "guys, let's edit this The band was like "nah." But eventually they gave in, and Atlantic a HUGE hit after that, reaching number four top ten in several other music charts around But yeah, Led Zeppelin II was a commercial (kids are gonna love it) Some later even called Other stand out songs on it included "What On," "The Lemon Song," and "Heartbreaker." By the beginning of 1970, Led Zeppelin was They were playing in huge auditoriums. Some of these early shows lasted more than the exact same way. Off stage, the band's behavior became crazier They were certainly known to party hard, and trope applied to them. Alcohol was the main drug, but the band often In May and June 1970, Page and Plant took a remote cottage in Wales called...well...I'm (Bron-Yr-Aur) Anyway, these songs were more Celtic music. They recorded at various studios throughout Much of these songs ended up on their third (hey notice a pattern here?), first released Fans were generally extremely excited for direction the band went in. While the biggest hit off of it, "Immigrant to most of the stuff on the first two albums, more chill, and critics generally were more By the way, the B-side of "Immigrant Song," a pretty big hit later on as well. The band didn't tour as much to promote a lot of big opportunities, retreating once write more songs. Meanwhile, Led Zeppelin was becoming not only band in the world. And they were about to become even bigger never officially had a title by the way. They recorded it from December 1970 to February mostly at a country house in Hampshire, England, After noticing a dog that hung around the song they wrote "Black Dog." They also recorded a little song called "Stairway Ok, well...not so little. Clocking in at just over eight minutes, the and iconic rock songs of all time. For this album, guest musicians like Ian Stewart Atlantic released the untitled album on November Based on what their first three albums were IV. It was an absolute smash success. This time, even critics loved it. Eventually it became the band's best-selling copies shipped worldwide. Radio stations played the heck out of "Stairway In fact, even though the band never released requested song on FM radio stations in the The band did release two singles from Led and "Rock and Roll." Other notable songs from the album include Breaks." Well shoot, that's most of the album. It was basically a greatest hits album, ok? In 1972, the band once again hit the road, stadiums and sports arenas. They returned to Japan after touring there They also toured Australia and New Zealand This was when their tales of rock star excess not. You know, tales like John Bonham riding his hotel. Meanwhile, the band recorded new songs at house, that ultimately made up their fifth by Atlantic on March 28, 1973. Although it received mixed reviews from critics, selling millions and reaching the top of the It featured the hits "Over the Hills and and "D'yer Mak'er." With Houses of the Holy, the band had continued dabbling in funk and reggae influences, for After its release, the band shattered box-office huge tours once again throughout Europe and They played to 56,800 at Tampa Stadium. They played three sold-out shows at Madison were filmed for a future motion picture. More on that later. A major bummer during, though, was right before $1 million, adjusted for inflation, was stolen Drake Hotel. The money was never recovered, and obviously Oh, I forgot to mention that they toured that Yep, a former Boeing 720 passenger jet called In the fall of 1973, the band took a bit of However, there were many delays. First, John Paul Jones wanted to quit the Really, Jones and the rest of the band just While most of 1974 was quiet for the band, year called Swan Song Records. Atlantic Records, however, negotiated to still The first album to be released by Swan Song released on February 24, 1975. It was actually a DOUBLE album, featuring recorded in previous years, going back all It was probably their most diverse album yet, selling more than 16 million copies, their at number one on the UK album charts. Critics also generally loved it. Plant later expressed that Physical Graffiti That said, you won't hear most of these The biggest hit was probably "Kashmir," on. Basically, Physical Graffiti didn't need Everyone loved it anyway, and it caused the the charts, by the way. They returned to the Starship for another In May, the band played five sold-out shows the time was the largest arena in Britain. In the fall, they planned touring again, but got in a major car crash while vacationing If it weren't for a blood transfusion, Mauren Plant got a broken ankle and was unable to Since they couldn't tour, they decided to 1975 while Plant recovered. In just 18 days in November, they recorded in a wheelchair. Unlike previous albums, all but one of the to Plant and Page, not the entire band. Swan Song released their seventh studio album, Most music critics these days say it's the solid reviews at the time. It definitely still demonstrated that the with the single "Candy Store Rock," which Holly and David Bowie, and I think that's While Presence did debut at number one on had gone significantly down compared to their This may have been since they didn't tour Instead, the band took all that footage from it into a movie called The Song Remains the I highly recommend it for a glimpse into not peak, but a glimpse into what life was like Warner Brothers released it on October 20, the box office. Swan Song also released a live soundtrack It hit the top of the music charts as well. In the spring of 1977, Led Zeppelin finally However, they didn't tour in their home In the United States, though, they continued 76,229 fans attended their show at the Silverdome single act show up to that point. However, the tour had some problems. On April 19, police arrested 70 people as throwing rocks and bottles to attempt to break in Cincinnati, Ohio. During the show, a fan died after falling On June 3, their Tampa Stadium show was cut tickets said "Rain or Shine." After this, some fans started a riot and this At the July 23rd show at Oakland Coliseum, notoriously infamous bodyguard known for his of the local security team. In a second scuffle, Peter Grant and John team showed up and arrested them, along with They were all charged with assault. After they were bailed out, the band flew Plant learned that his five-year old son had They immediately canceled the rest of the again after that. At the end of 1977, the future of the band public didn't hear much from them over the By September 1978, though, the band was itching When they did get together, they went crazy Jones with his synthesizers. At the end of the year, they recorded some These songs were definitely much different In particular, they were less heavy, you could Although the band wasn't completely satisfied become their eighth and final studio album, It was another commercial success, hitting It also featured two pretty big hits: "Fool was a tribute to Plant's son who had died. While In Through the Out Door also went on of it. Not only that, but many long-time Led Zeppelin 1979 also saw the band returning to the stage- Big ones. They had 104,000 fans in the audience at the Still, by this time both Jimmy Page and John to drugs. Page was using too much heroin, and Bonham In June 1980, the band once again toured Europe, The June 27th show in Nuremberg, Germany, song when Bonham passed out on stage and had Many assumed excessive drug use was the cause. That would be the band's final tour. They had planned on returning for another September 25, 1980 after consuming around band at Jimmy Page's house. He had choked on his own vomit after passing Page, Plant, and Jones decided the band could They issued a statement in December that said dear friend, and the deep sense of undivided have led us to decide that we could not continue It was over. Following the breakup of the band, the surviving to have successful solo careers. Jones mostly went back to behind the scenes Plant went on to record eleven solo albums with big names. Page also had some solo albums, but also formed from the band Bad Company. On November 19, 1982, the band released Coda, their twelve-year career. A lot of the songs on it had been bootlegged Over the years, they released an additional They also released three additional live albums. As far as reunions, there have only been a The three surviving members played Live Aid concert in 1988, which featured John Bonham's They also reunited for their induction into on January 12, 1995. Jason Bonham once again played drums for the On December 10, 2007, Jason once again played Ertegun Tribute Concert in London. It was an incredible performance, and it will remaining members of the band perform again. Today, Led Zeppelin is one of the best-selling They've sold as many as 300 million records And talk about freaking influence. Soooo many of their contemporaries and bands off. Truly, few bands were as original as Led Zeppelin. Nearly every song they released was a surprise...in Not only that, the four members of the band influential of all time at their respective Bonham is often ranked as one of the best Jones is often ranked as one of the best bassists, Plant is often ranked as one of the best rock And of course Jimmy Page is often ranked as Maybe the best ever. When I think of Led Zeppelin, the first word They refused to follow. They only led and most other bands were constantly in their early years. They were to the 1970s what the Beatles were To put it bluntly, there was a BLZ and an Before Led Zeppelin and After Led Zeppelin. They changed not only the music industry, So what's your favorite Led Zeppelin song Which band should I cover for this series Let me know in the comments below. Just so you know, the Rage Against the Machine I played a few seconds of one of their songs. Those record companies are ruthless. I wish Peter Grant was still around to defend Thanks for watching!