Realtors. If you want to know the exact Facebook ad 2 to 3 deals per month. This is the video for you. going to give you the entire step by step, click by click strategy the first thing I won't understand So the second post in your news Feed so you're pretty much always going to see an ad there So that is in the actual newsfeed, These are called sidebar ads. Usually people don't click on those ads. It's a busy place and it's hard But I want to give you an analogy of Facebook putting a billboard The reason is the newsfeed You pretend you got your partner beside, there's a lot going on to try and get people's attention. That's what Facebook's like. You've really got to get people's by using good graphics, I want to show you in this on online advertising, So I'm really excited There's a bunch of different types of ads. There's ads in marketplace, there's ads in the newsfeed, the sidebar, There's retargeting ads, which I'm That'll be for a future tutorial. So stay tuned and subscribe to the channel Now basically what you're going to do You're going to click those and then so this is going to take you If you want to get into the actual place, you're going to run ads, that's going to take you to where Now, basically what you're going to do from here is There's three levels to setting up an ad. There's the campaign, the ad said in the ad, now you can have multiple and you can have multiple ads So the campaign is more like The ad set is So that's where you're going to choose. Like, you know, if you can but like your age range, all of that stuff, So So basically what we're going to do I'm going to show you this ad strategy So essentially So there's different types of ads, Traffic is if you want to drive traffic, your website engagement Leads is for instant forms. So these are the forms with people's information ready filled. go ahead and click next. It's going to give you a option here. We're just going to choose manual at the campaign level, So I like a naming convention. And then the ad set is you're targeting what you're going to do Unfortunately, in real estate, done hundreds of in-person workshops at a Facebook ads agency. unfortunately, So this was many years ago now. But basically, if you're in housing, or politics, you can't actually target Okay. Now, basically, So you're in the United States. That's really all you're going to do here. There's not a whole lot It's just basically choosing the special we're going to be operating in, So the ad set, what I'm going to show and how you can use this type There's the classic custom list of homes you know, condos or, you know, detached homes or downsizing or upsizing, stuff But what's working really well right And partly because in 2023 And so anyways, if you guys want to get access where I talk about how my clients using a combination of our platforms leave a comment down below. Leave a comment Masterclass. Just tell me and I'll make sure I send you a link long on a break down Kind of like this, but not just Facebook, and video strategies to actually warm up so leave a comment below But basically the ad said Let's just say Vancouver, Basically, you're going to go down here So basically you have a few options here if you want to build like a funnel and like we do this for some clients That's not the ad I'm going to get into, landing pages for this strategy as well, where it's like access, you know, 400 So we build custom landing pages like this YouTube ads And that works really well. But that creates an extra step of having to build a landing page, but it's sometimes hard for the average What you can do And we do a bit of both. Realistically, sometimes with the website quality leads, but with the instant form so it's easier for them. You usually get cheaper leads, So I always like to go into a quality It's really important Lead generation, in my perspective It's the easy part. It's the conversion And that's we focus a lot of our energy and we bring in some of our best clients in some cases 300 deals per year So anyways, Basically, So in this case, you could choose, you I've accepted the terms, you're going to need to do that performance goal. Just leave it as a maximum You're not going to set a cost per result. Dynamic creative leave. This is basically, your creative assets for you. I prefer personally to control them. Now there's two types of budgets. You can do a lifetime budget if you want So you wanted to run your ads for a week. You could set a budget Most of the time and you're going to set a daily budget of, We can leave it at that. And so basically that would be about $600 I usually, with advertising, recommend a month. So most of our clients, The reason is when you do more, because the reality is and if anyone tells You're going to get crap leads with this and you have to find the good leads. So when you spend more your energy goes towards the good leads to forget about the bad ones You're going to get fake emails, you're going to get Donald at Disney dot It's just part of it. That's not a bad thing. That's just part of doing a volume So what you're going to do is just leave the start date to whatever next is your audience. So basically you can So before you even set up especially if you're running to a website, you should have installed your Facebook Now the pixel is a piece of code and allows your website Okay, this is important for retargeting, so you cannot retarget in an audience So if you don't have that, and you can't retarget to an audience So you need to get the pixel And honestly, you may not be using your website You will want to connect So that leads a funnel into there But basically you want to sell your pixel and this is I have another tutorial on my channel and I'll probably be making another one But essentially that's your website, You can start tracking those, The other way you retarget is people or engage with your Facebook page But essentially, like there is custom audiences here, So like we have custom audiences built And so these audiences are literally or seen different pages on our website. We can do that because we've essentially Also here we have location targeting. Basically, you are going to click here You are limited to a 15 mile radius. So with this though, It's not like you, you shouldn't do much. It would be nice if you could. I mean, when I used to teach this, and you can target things like, you know, if you just look at real estate, there's a whole bunch of stuff People basically like real estate license, you can only really target And it doesn't really like if you look at the size of the audience Like it's it's so broad, like development if they follow a page related It's not the most specific thing anymore. You used to be able to target by like age they were doing on Facebook But the special add category limits that, you could go in here and select things real estate It's just giving a little bit of an idea But real estate development, real estate investing You can narrow your audience. So you wanted to do you like is it's going to include people But interest targeting is is so broad. What you generally want to do these days is just let the Facebook because it will read your ad, and it will go ahead If you wanted to do and who are people who are interested then you would narrow your audience. So this means they have to fit I hope this makes sense. You're not limiting yourself It's going to target more people because Facebook knows a lot it's easier if you just put them I mean, you went for a real estate license But basically leave it as this. You don't even have to put this. I want to be I honestly, with how Facebook's targeting And that's just You used to be able to get super granular. You see all the target people who are When you wanted to look at targeting literally target people who are interested And you used to be able but you can't today languages, if you are trying to target people Otherwise you're just going to leave it. Okay, So now we're going to go next and we're going to name And I'll show you how this ad gets So what you're going to do is your Facebook page should be set here, account as well. So mine are connected. If you don't have them connected, And you do that in actually Instagram. now we're going to start building your ad. So it's going to give us a preview of the as we build more and more of a preview of what Now, there's there's lots of different types of ads, where you're going to see multiple images But the thing that works And I've been I've been teaching this for Just a single beautiful image. So you want to come down here a really good image that's going to speak So the image is really important. So if I go add image here, a nice new construction home, right? this is kind of depending on your market look like it It's going to give you the option to essentially change But generally speaking, If you can change them, change them, this is a really nice home. So 1 to 1 is the ratio Like the original here was not a square, it's going to work in more placements. So like most of our ads, You might have seen them in the preview that's really important and change Now Facebook will automatically optimize. You'll see it'll insert the headline, in different places. So just sit down. There's not a whole lot Facebook's going to do that automatically and then we're going So the primary text is So I have some stuff ready here But this is the basic structure So looking for a new construction, looking get our custom list of updated So the why new construction works So you can just a lot of the time so you can't just get them, Sometimes they limit inventory, And so that's why our custom list is a really good type of ad well for the couple of my clients So next you going to put in a headline. So you want this to kind of match basically what you're looking at where it's this form on Facebook custom hottest, hottest sounds, better customer It just has to be Again, you can you can spend all day But usually like what I found That agent launched me. We have a team of 23 feels like sometimes the simplest And so this is a really simple type of ad that anyone Description. I mean, you can just expand here, like you can even use the same thing get a custom list, get a custom list of, the best new construction inventory in Vancouver, not found on MLS. Call to Action. Learn more. And my experience always works the best. It's just the truth. I've always found So this is interesting here. Like you want to you want to look Because you're going to see You're going to see how it looks stories and reels like it's going to automatically take your headlines so you don't have to worry about this But it's good to kind of like poke around because you can actually customize them So if you hit edit here, for one individual placement yeah, like newsfeed performing ads most of the time So custom list of new construction homes, Now basically what you're going to do down here is So this is where this gets tricky. But basically there's a couple options So in this form, I'd say there's a couple different form So more that they have on Facebook But to be honest with you, Facebook So like a lot of times people's Facebook So I like higher content. We found this work better I might want to put in is not the same as the email So this will add a review step to review the information Now essentially here so we can literally do the same image That's generally what I would do. And then you want to just repurpose you've been using as far as the headline basically get a custom I like to add emojis in here basically the description you want to kind of add something like So basically you want to encourage them they're going to get the list by email. If you don't say something like that, they could just be putting in a fake email But the reality is what how most people is they just put a link to their MLS where people start And all they got from It's like a custom list, but So if you actually want to do this ad, is having either a page on your website where you can like update the document If you're going to run this ad and then it gives you a good reason to like follow up with people So basically, We will email you the current list Now your questions. So this is actually like, Obviously, So the general idea is full name, email, That's basically what you want. You're going to have to obviously, You're not going to get an accurate all the time, Because some people will just give it Most of the conversions you're going to get are from people Now, basically what you're going to do So like I can go to my real estate website and just down at the bottom You should have this with like literally and you can just throw that in here. The review screen is basically a chance for them do it So yeah, that's, that's really about it. I mean, there's not there's You're all set. The last thing you're going to do with your custom list updated every week. So you want to really just make it, In the meantime. And then you want to go to the call So this is what most people do They just send people What I would do instead is like, So the call to action is like So there's a couple of ways You can say, expect an email from us And then from that and build an automation The better want to connect it to your CRM too, How we do this with our clients is we set up drip campaigns we have emails that go out from Whatever type of advertising we're doing, but we usually have videos But what you can do here is when you have a file plus Google Ads PDF. So I can take the link to this file Now I'll just pretend this is a custom list of new construction homes, called 10 million it will update the file and keep the link So all you need to do is have a document here's the top have that in like a nice document and just update it every week this date or unlisted, currently unlisted, And just have a rolling document that and then you have to change nothing. That's the best part about this. So see, this is the file type. If as long as you're as like Google ads, generally Vancouver new construction updated weekly. And you just have that exact same file You can just push that into Google Drive essentially you won't have to change your because it'll just keep taking them But that file will be updated. I would actually change this I think it's better. So that's a cool little hack you can do here. this is they'll just put a link So you could go to your website here And this is what you would do or if you're doing like a waterfront is you'd actually like go in here and you choose like, say, and you choose the type of dwelling So see, I was doing a custom list of condos and I change it And this is what we do for our clients Is driving traffic here. So that's the custom list type of ad except you save you custom list Now you can do that as well. If you have new construction And let me just remove all this is the other way to do Now you can say, here's a custom list of new construction And so that was true. Then you can obviously get more granular You can build multiple of these ads Right. And that's is because now you're setting them to your website and if they want to look at something, on your website as well, So there's a couple of ways to do this. I think with new construction, because you can actually build And then on that resource you have like Like one of our clients This has like a happy home you'll be happy or they'll listed for free within a year so you can have information about that, And that way they get you get right And it's like, And I can't show you what he does exactly. But like, you want to see We have a guarantee. Here's the most updated listings current So make the document actually current. that's the harder way to do this. Basically, the easier way to do this is by doing it You go in and you put like And I would that way, more specific and do this homes, but do new construction condos in downtown or something But that's basically it. You go ahead and create their form, let people know how you will give So what you can do is just see examples will give you some examples here. We'll use this information to contact that's in your weekly newsletters. You can just say this information to send you your custom list future property is then go ahead and create form. And that's basically it. Like that we have our ad built, we're basically done once you publish, Facebook where they're going to make sure You may get rejected but this is basically it. Then you want to go in and you can find guides for this online. I'm not going to say to do it right now, to your CRM might require a tool Like some CRMs can connect natively So it's a whole different tutorial, are going into your CRM. And then you set up a workflow automation for our clients, so that these start getting more emails So it's like, Hey, Here's a quick video on everything you need to know about buying Make an informative video, link to them in your email so they get your list explaining the things they need to know Because most of the time, most people So there's things they need to know how to hold builders accountable. Like things like that the taxes, for example. So making a video and having that's super key to a successful you can't just leave it there, right? You can't just leave it at the guide really quickly, and community We are literally giving away everything It is our mission now to make advanced real estate So we're opening up all of our formerly I'm talking online lead conversion Google ads training, YouTube training, which I just redid, conversion I have six for real estate for you in our new app, which you can find in the App Store this video and I will send you a link what you need to focus on You need to focus on the conversion, at a high level, and you need to focus on It's not about just building one and optimizing over time and see not only cost per lead, the best cost per appointment, because sometimes you make it per lead here, but you might be getting Like we just had a claims three weeks million deal done, which is really soon. But what happened was interesting is One was $15 lead on was $20 And our media buying team And he's like, no, like, don't pause the $50 lead campaign, came from. And he has another $6 million deal. He's talking to you So sometimes the higher cost per leader subscribe to the channel Leave some comments below and our brand new free community and app, Age and launch. I look forward to seeing you guys there