- This show was sponsored by Being human doesn't and sometimes we don't to navigate life stressors. Luckily, working with a therapist can help you gather those tools, visit betterhelp.com/super and navigate life with a little more ease. Hey brother! Guys back in 2012 we made a video called the Pixar Theory, and unbeknownst to us at the time, it would change our lives, this channel, and the Everything is part of the Pixar Theory Okay, definitely not the music industry, but it is available on But since then, anytime Pixar we have produced a new to the Pixar theory explaining But hey, we get it. Maybe you missed one or two of Maybe you didn't see And with 26 different movies out now, it can be hard to keep So today we're simplifying updated, complete Pixar theory. Including everything from &quot;Toy which turned out to just be a That's how &quot;Light year&quot; fits in. This is the Pixar theory. Pixar theory The Pixar theory We're finally going to see clearly The Pixar theory The Pixar theory. By now, I'm sure you've heard of it, but in case you're new, I'm sure you're at least that Pixar loves to put little Easter eggs in all their movies, little nods and references The Pixar theory is the idea that all these little Easter eggs are more than just nods and references and winks at the audience. They are proof that every exists in the same universe on the same timeline. So for example, you can at the aquarium in &quot;Finding Dory.&quot; So they must exist in And then in &quot;Finding reading a comic book of &quot;The Incredibles&quot; and there's a Buzz Lightyear at his feet, So I guess &quot;Toy Story&quot; And then speaking of &quot;The Incredibles&quot;, you can see Duke Kaboom in So &quot;The Incredibles&quot; and you can see how it But the real part of the if it's one universe, then there must be a through line, a plot that's happening across time and what is that plot? And as ever, I think it's that we did not invent the Pixar theory. It was originally introduced to the world by a man named Jon Negroni. He actually even wrote a book about it. But since then, the internet has of and there are tons of and versions of it out there. So the version you're gonna hear today is the one that we have come to accept and build upon over the past 10 years here at Super Carlin Brothers, we don't count any of the shorts, sparks, or shows, just the movies. Let's go. The movies of course, don't We'll have to put them in order ourselves. The first one on the timeline although I guess you could &quot;Soul&quot; is kind of and none of the time and time just works weird in that movie. So I, we're starting It is particularly important because of this moment right here where the asteroid misses the Earth. This tiny non-event right here is the catalyst for in the Pixar universe. It's why the Pixar universe but also slightly different. And the first big change It's how much more the since the asteroid missed. Arlo and his family have agricultural practices, they farmed the land, but you can't escape your fate. And so even though the a couple extra million years they're still doomed. Not by an asteroid, however, which in the movie is already Climate change, who knew? For example, the pterodactyls but now they have to follow the storm in order to scavenge food. The T-Rexes have to herd animals to provide themselves but food is so short that of losing their herd to raptors. But on the other hand, we also get an early glimpse in the form of Spot who proves are extremely resourceful in ways that the dinosaurs just aren't. What &quot;The Good Dinosaur&quot; establishes for the Pixar universe though is something we're gonna continue to see through the timeline as a any animal that doesn't get domesticated, like rats or insects or will develop some level of intelligence. Heck, even in &quot;The Good Dinosaur&quot;, you can see different with the chickens. - Yesterday he said - She's only got one foot. - But hey, that's not might and intelligence, right? You might also be a turned into a bear. That's right. Next up we turn to the movie with mother daughter strife where the main character has red hair and someone gets turned into a giant bear. I'm speaking of course of, &quot;Brave&quot; I know. Can you believe it? Isn't it weird that somehow with this exact plot? Well, not if you understand Otherwise, it's kind of weird that even a single movie exists with this plot. But honestly, I'm kind this long for another movie like this to come out because not but so is all of the magic into a bear. Real (whispers) Thank you for watching. Both situations involve searching for power. Sun Yee in &quot;Turning Red&quot; and Mor'du in &quot;Brave&quot; for conquest. And both are granted this giant bear. Mor'du gets it and Sun Yee gets it from Or does she? Hmm? More on that later. But let's talk about the witch is by far the most curious especially as it relates For one, it introduces us to magic, which is our first glimpse of they're not supposed to. Her crow can talk to humans, her door doesn't work the way and the witch herself seems but she is obviously also For example, her knives are quick to turn on her when Merida offers her a suggesting they have outside of the witches maybe she's just not speaking am I right, Barley? - Your hearts fire. You Don't hold back. - Indeed Barley. But the other important that the witch can do is the Here's how Merida describes fate. &quot;Some say our destiny is tied to the land, as much a part of us as we are of it. Others say fate is woven So the one's destiny It's the one thing we search for or fight to change. Some never find it, but there are some who are led.&quot; One's destiny intertwines Hmm, I wonder who that's about? But anyway, let's get back to bear magic. There's obviously some key differences between &quot;Turning Red&quot; and &quot;Brave.&quot; Obviously like one is a giant red panda and the other is black bear, and that Sun Yee is able between human and panda where as Mor'du just sort of gets stuck as black bear. But there's quite a number For example, both sets of to them. I mean, Mor'du is all the time, even though when he dies inside of him. It's which sort of suggests that the bear or primal darkness It's like the scene in is going through the mirror and It's like the bear won that and is the one who's left on the outside. Merida's mom also shows moments of advancing towards darkness and we see Meilin totally when he calls her a freak. Not to mention, you know, Even how you undo the bear Both somehow involve a For Merida, it's before and for Meilin, it's before Then staying inside of a physical circle and sing with your heart. Oh right, sorry, hearts fire. - My what? - Your hearts fire. You - This separates the bear Man, even that. A soul after a circle is drawn why does that sound familiar? (grunts) I'm telling you guys, it's like all these movies Oh wait, that's why you're here. And yes, I know nobody in but they are standing in a stone circle and everyone is wishing that Merida's mom is going to come back. Okay, fine. We also don't know but if you don't think that on her own to bring her then you need to go watch the movie again. And I mean just compare the separated soul from the bear in each movie. I mean it's just this who used to live. Coincidence? - Thank you Bernie, but okay, Humans and animals are What happens next? Machines, yes machines and in fact, the power struggle between is what takes up the big middle section of the Pixar theory. But I use power struggle because it's not like any group is trying to be in control in any particular way is just that as certain group rise, it's usually at the cost of the others. But I say others pretty loosely here because for the animals their ship sailed with the dinosaurs, like that was their time and from there on out but we'll get into that more later. For now, let's focus on the which happens in &quot;The Incredibles.&quot; Which takes place somewhere Here we see the supers who live in a world of constant fear and crime and do their best to fight it until one day they get outlawed, but not before the best of offends his biggest fan, Buddy Pine, AKA Syndrome. Turns out this day had Little did Bob Parr know that by not entertaining little he would alter the course of the entire world pretty immensely because the end result is that locks himself in his room, and invents artificial intelligence in the form of the omnidroids, lethal robots he uses to try and kill off all the supers so that Too bad for him though, the machines end up being smart Thankfully the Incredibles and defeat the omnidroid The damage is done. AI has been introduced to the world and this event marks for the humans in terms for quite some time, and even marks the beginning of the end for the end of magic on planets abroad. But we'll come back to that one. However, despite this being the the humans don't like lose Interestingly, the as a bit of a power, but never really take the driver's seat. Well, except for that one time when Dory literally drives a truck off a cliff. I mean, I know it's a but for some reason this where they, you know, Nailed it. They literally did it though. Meanwhile, on the other another movie is happening &quot;Luca&quot;, now if you recall, Luca and Alberto are a revelation that the people of Portorosso accept and which is like fine, good for them for being so open minded, but I do feel like it happens for a town with a statue of you know, right there in we're good. Instead, let's sea monsters the champions of And if that doesn't say progress, then I don't even know what the point of a pasta triathlon even is. That said maybe part of the by this sudden revelation they're used to sort of in the world like super powers, which we know are things because of how the end But what also lines up in terms of the Pixar theory is the cleanliness of the water. I mean, sure Alberto at the beginning of the movie, but for the most part it's very clean, which is in harsh contrast to Pixar movies taking place closer to present day, where if you see underwater, it is horribly polluted and this is sort of a sure But actually the second because there's another within the universe happening. You may have noticed are not quite as smart as the other fish we see like in &quot;Finding Nemo.&quot; Instead they're more like And actually we already went over it, it's because the fish and &quot;Luca&quot; have been domesticated much like the chickens were domesticated by the dinosaurs in &quot;The Good Dinosaur.&quot; But you might be wondering about now where did the sea monsters come from? And that is a very good question and we will definitely answer it in a little bit. It is quite important. But we did mention &quot;Finding to our next set of movies the &quot;Toy Story's&quot;, &quot;Inside &quot;Ratatouille&quot; and &quot;Up.&quot; Actually &quot;Turning Red&quot; takes but we already sort of talked Anyway, &quot;Finding Nemo&quot; shows similar to the dinosaurs, in the absence of humans, they have school systems, traffic lights, a real estate market. - Because a lot of other clownfish had their eyes on this place. - You better believe they - Not only that, but successfully circumnavigate and another group of But not all animals are Instead, in &quot;Ratatouille&quot; we see that Remy works alongside humans to great effect. He literally becomes the which is pretty impressive until then, cooking was But I guess I should note that while Remy is an exceptional rat, he's The rest of his family totally and in the very near very true. In the meantime though, is actually the greatest chef on Earth, is a secret known only to four humans by the end of &quot;Ratatouille.&quot; Linguini, Colette, Anton and Chef Skinner does not blabs to the press about and most people are and decided never to eat there again, which I guess they can't anyway 'cause they close down the restaurant. But a very clever person the rats coincided exactly Anton Egos review of Gusteaus claiming it as the best meal he ever had and put two and two together and hmm, do we ever see anyone else being served food by animals. - As Epsilon is the - Charles Muntz, the on animals or while a specific animal. (Kevin screeching) A prehistoric animal I might add, which per the Pixar theory has and evaded capture for 70 plus years and that's evading capture from a guy who by his twenties already of some of the world's that's apparently not even But how smart is Kevin? I mean he's up against Muntz, who recognizes the potential and invents collars that allow but again, it totally fits. Animals like fish, rats, and by humans have developed intelligence. Meanwhile, dogs who have been domesticated like Buster in &quot;Toy Story&quot; have not. But Muntz seems to have found and has hyper smart dogs capable of cooking food and flying airplanes. Man, I tell you &quot;Up&quot; is if it's even happening at all. (whispers) Whole video But &quot;Up&quot; is important as it does introduce some other big players namely BNL, AKA Buy N Large, the corporate face of the in the background since &quot;The Incredibles.&quot; If you don't know, BNL that is trying to buy Carl's house and force him out of the city And BNL shows up a bunch in Pixar, I mean most notably in &quot;Wall-E&quot;, but also here in &quot;Toy Story they produce the batteries inside of Buzz and actually there's a connecting &quot;Up&quot; and &quot;Toy Story.&quot; Like you can see a Lotso and in this room right here, the as the Ellie badge can in Sid's dad's room, and, of course, there's on Andy's bulletin board from who I do not have time But let me just say, I of my mid-twenties investigating and eventually took the to Pete Docter himself. Wild ride. But while we're on &quot;Toy let's pause because it's of one of the bigger which is how humans are used across it. Which is to say, as batteries. Sort of, it's more like has the ability to bring things to life. But this is the answer and why they're afraid of because their owners are &quot;Coco&quot; actually gives us for how this all works and but for now, just start Where humans are, there is life. Where humans are not, there is not, at least when it comes to inorganic things like toys or machines On the other hand, when humans' involvement is We get to see the start on the planet in &quot;Finding Dory&quot; when Marlin, Nemo, and a junkyard on the ocean floor. The pollution is vast with except for the occasional crab and giant bioluminescent squid. But really the trash is because it marks the beginning Unless you're like an animal like I don't know, rats look, &quot;Ratatouille&quot; is the It's like these movies are But we already talked about rats, so instead let's just move to the point where it gets (ominous crashing) For that, we have to fast to 2105 where the humans have apparently beyond repair and During that time, BNL, our faceless machine driven corporation, every aspect of life on Earth. - Go to full autopilot, and do not return to Earth. - And ultimately they come the planet is a lost cause. So they load up everyone and send them into space and can clean up the Earth, which it turns out they So it makes you wonder why to begin with, but whatever it worked out. Either way they evacuate the planet and leave it unpopulated at all, or so they thought, for 700 years. And a lot happens in that time. - Dadgum. - Because with the animals who's left to inherit the Earth, the cars. They might think like, doesn't take place on Earth, right? Like it's definitely some or something like that. But no, it's definitely the same For one, it has all of the same places and we get to see a lot But it does bring up a lot of questions like how are the cars coming to life? Why do they all have similar to people from our time, just a little bit different? How could it be that they with dates and stuff? If all of &quot;Cars&quot; took place how could they have a 1950's? Even if they started their own timeline, that's too many years. You might be asking the question, are they artificial intelligence? No. BNL may have polluted the but power and domination They were never trying or develop their own race BNL's goal was always to easier and easier at any, I mean they literally paid with the entire planet. But seriously, look at how Like if your goal is to eradicate humans, why bother keeping them But so if the cars aren't what are they then? Well, how it works is that the same way the toys were coming to life, the same way the monsters will eventually power their cities, with human energy. And while it's very similar to the toys, there are a few key differences. I mean obviously the cars while the humans were there Plus since they're built as oil, maintenance, and But perhaps the key difference is that the toys are designed as something that is supposed to be brought to and thus typically their Whether that's a cowboy part slinky dog or a potato - Look, I'm Picasso. - Cars on the other hand and so don't have a Instead, cars on the personality complete with their memories but viewed through a car-ified lens. It also appears that the in the same order in instead of all at once. This explains why new generations to Lightning McQueen all continue to emerge throughout the series. And why their years in history seem to line up so well with our own. We actually even get a hint as to when the real Lightning McQueen thanks to this bandaid on the truck driver in &quot;Finding Dory.&quot; And actually if you wanna get we have a pretty good the actor who played Buzz (whispers) Full video Not Chris Evans, the in who was an actor that played that like Andy watched. But if you're still confused great news, &quot;Luca&quot; offers for how this works. I'm sure you recall in what happened to Alberto's father because we don't learn other than that he used to above the water near town And while it's never confirmed, I feel pretty confident that of course, Bruno, as in silenzio Bruno. If you don't recall, silenzio don't listen to the you only live once, let's drive this rickety Vespa and just generally ignore And I mean it makes sense because his dad probably used to tell him not to do such crazy, gravity But having been abandoned, any sort of warning echo in his head and instead shouting to the heavens. - Silenzio Bruno! - And this is all relevant there's a character named Bruno Motoreau who is the French crew And I'll be real, he is an except that he is almost of Alberto's father. And for a character that we actually know a He plays the accordion, likes romantic drives along the Seine, and his favorite movie is Plays the accordion with But he did. Now interestingly, The is a reference to the real life movie, &quot;The Isle of Dr. Moreau&quot; which, and I could not believe this, is a movie about a man you know, like sea monsters. And get this, Seine might but it also has a second meaning as fishing net and not just but specifically this kind of fishing net that Alberto was almost caught in at the beginning of the movie. So the idea is that the human Bruno caught Alberto's mother who, just looked like a human. They fell in love, had Alberto, and then she died. Possibly at the hands of the town's folk who again have a statue of in the middle of their town which leaves Bruno to raise his son alone and away from town and above the water because he, of course, which is why Alberto The point is, the similarities interests and the likely all but prove that this is Got it? Good. But oddly, if you can believe it, that's not even the last connection between the &quot;Cars&quot; movies and &quot;Luca.&quot; You know what else connects them? Crabs. Because why wouldn't they? Crabs are weirdly important Did you know that crabs are confirmed to exist inside But it's surprising, right? Because didn't all the animals caused by the humans, which is why the humans left? But it's actually not that surprising because if you go back to that scene in &quot;Finding Dory&quot; when they're what is the only other animal they see? Crabs. And in addition to fish, guess what else the sea monsters domesticated? Crabs. Also, also, actually, actually, we know that as far forward as &quot;Wall-E&quot;, there is at least one other critter that seems to have been able to survive. The cockroaches, like Which may seem irrelevant here, but crustaceans, such as crabs, are actually extremely Keep that in mind next time Just a big ole' sea roach. Like no one ever wants to live underwater, and served at a premium. All right guys. Now I need that today's show is brought I'll just be straight with you guys, when life isn't working for you, it is totally normal to feel stuck. Frankly, navigating when life doesn't come with a user manual. So whether you're or a new relationship we all need help with Which is where therapy comes in. Therapists are trained to help you learn productive coping skills for life's everyday speed bumps or challenges and BetterHelp has connected with licensed therapists because it's convenient and accessible. We here at SCB talk pretty with mental health and on all of our various different shows, which is why I can't tell to have discovered therapy because like anyone else out there I have struggled with feeling stuck or understanding my own emotions and just having someone to like help me through those moments has been crucial. BetterHelp is the world's and has already matched with professionally licensed who are all available 100% All you have to do is fill to match with the therapist and then if things aren't it's super easy to just Like it couldn't be simpler. There's no waiting rooms, no traffic, no endlessly searching which can be the hardest part. If you wanna learn more and you can head over to betterhelp.com/SUPER. One more time, that's Link is the description down below. Anyway, where were we Oh yeah, right, The Axiom Well I guess actually, we follow all the humans but actually lots of and went out into the You ever wonder what Like are they just still out there? Honestly, probably, except for one, which didn't have such a happy ending and instead crash landed on of magic. Not gonna lie, when I the thing that bothered me the most was that in this like total fantasy world, all of the technology they came up with was almost the exact same stuff we humans came up with except obviously, 'cause there's like two moons. Like how could that possibly be I wonder? How is this gonna fit Our smartphones and cars just inevitable? No, as ever, the Pixar theory provides. The reason the technology to the technology from Earth is that it's from Earth. What happened is one of crash landed into the planet of &quot;Onward&quot; and all their technology is being sourced from that star cruiser, which is just packed to the brink with the peak of human technology. And I mean this makes sense, right? Like if a giant spaceship crashed into the middle of your magical utopia, you'd have to explore it and figure out where it came from and what And guess what? Telling people where it came from is one of the functions Not only that, but it's also that can tell them how to And if only a few beings are capable of magic on your planet, you can see why adopting for every troll, gnome, and any other creature But that is why the cars, infrastructure of the entire is so similar to Earths. I mean heck, they even have the same I guess they just couldn't be stuck in their head forever. TripleDent gum - This again? - But it really should be no surprise, The Axioms are products of about suggesting how you But you might be thinking, If BNL is so pervasive, like a BNL logo somewhere No, I thought so too. But instead where you need where you can see proof In the movie the brothers are in the distance called this isn't their true Because Raven's Point The whole movie I kept thinking, man, it looks so familiar. And that is when I looked at And guess what? It's a perfect fit. And you think, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Are you telling me those ships Uh, yes, they are. These ships are absolutely massive and totally mountain size. And if you're wondering like a spaceship anymore, that's because it's been and it's just been covered But anyway, let's get back and apparently a few crabs because you might have the planet looks way more You may have also wisely pointed out that there's a ton of plant life in &quot;Cars&quot; that the Eve drones should and report back to the captain. Very, very good points, are pretty easily explained. First of all, the humans way before the planet looks And second, the Eve probes to locations where there is no vegetation to find out if vegetation has But either way, it doesn't matter. Every single Eve droid to be coming back with plant life every single time and it makes no difference to never return anyway. At all times, it maintains its directive to stop the captain from As for the planet being so brown, well I think that's probably of the planet for several But, of course, the cars Look, here's poor Todd. kind of weird for them to leave Am I right? (laughs) Car, you get it. But it's like we said, there's no energy. The cars can survive on but even by &quot;Cars 2&quot;, there's But of course we all know that and solves everything by to the captain of The Axiom and delivering the humans back to Earth. - We can go back home for the first time. - And what becomes of the humans Well, it looks like they start rebuilding, but eventually we know Now we've always known this was the case and for a long time our theory was that after returning there was still some like leftover radiation or that got into the humans to mutate into the monsters. But with so many new movies out, we now have a much better understanding of what actually happened and how they transitioned The answer is, of See while the above ground it doesn't mean the The oceans being much likely allowed them to and survive the inter meaning 700 years. I mean, we absolutely know if they don't have to live near land or anything thanks to Luca's creepy uncle. And this offers an how those crabs were surviving They were domesticated. But so as the humans to a now livable planet, so too are the sea above the surface. Where as ever they continue And if our story about then it means the sea monsters humans and eventually create But of course after that happens, it means once again which means energy crisis, which is where we find the monsters in &quot;Monsters Inc.&quot; - Mikey, there's a scream - In fact, what is it we to run their cities. Oh Or more specifically human emotions or even more specifically human memories. Yes, here we go. At last we've explained how humans as an energy source works. Oh, but wait, weren't you gonna tell us came to be in the first place? Yeah, I am. I'll get there. Okay, shh, (chair rustling) Okay, so if you recall at the there is a scare shortage, which if you ask me makes no sense. I mean, we know Sully and Randall are both simultaneously close to breaking That means the two best scares of all time are working at the same time on the scare floor. And somehow you're at a scare shortage. - Oh, kids these days. They just don't get - Indeed Waternoose, indeed. The solution in the movie is which I submit to you makes no sense. If talent why is scream at an all time low? Well, it's because of how which is time travel. When the monsters go through the doors, they enter the human world. But as we've just established, the human world is their world. What the monsters are a point in history when humans existed because as ever they need As such, when they travel matters and we have a pretty good idea when they're traveling back to thanks to some of the posters Namely all these actual posters promoting the opening of Disneyland back in 1955. We also have this Jesse which would've come out which also came out in the fifties and was super popular until- - Two words Sputnik. - Which for the record So right on cue. But here's the monster's problem. They're only ever able a set amount of time, meaning that as time progresses it also progresses at the same rate. So for example, let's say it's the year and they're traveling back to 1950. Then, in 3051 they'd be So when Waternoose says, kids just don't scare like they used to, it's because he's up against of the kids in the human world. Interestingly, back on the human reign portion of the timeline in the 1940's is also when the supers were - I'm at the top of my game. - Helen says that in an to the events of the where the need for the supers Which explains why scream energy is fading and laugh energy is rising that Syndrome introduces which we know then goes way, way, way easier for Prior to that though because they were in It makes sense that scream because fear was in constant supply. But over time, joy, not fear You see where we're And this is exactly what we Like if you look at her long-term memory, it's mostly joy back there. There's literally just more because they have more happy memories and memories specifically not emotions. Emotions just color the memories. &quot;Inside Out&quot; also explains why than adults for harvesting the energy. Because for the most part, all of their memories have but when they get older, they have more complex and mixed emotions, which would obviously And boy, let me tell you, since last time we did a complete Pixar theory video, I have personally had three kids and that is absolutely at a time at 100% and nothing in between. &quot;Inside Out&quot; also introduces Bing Bong, whose death is quite powerful. In Riley's mind, Bing not just a memory. So he's able to walk around freely rather than being contained But he still spends most of the movie in this in between state. He's a memory that's never called upon, but he's also not entirely forgotten. And as such, he just sort until eventually he falls And oddly, this exact behind the entire plot of &quot;Coco.&quot; Which is why it should that the City of Dead just looks of the inside of the human mind. The difference of course at a single little girl's memories, we're now looking at the memories of several generations of And yet the rules are once a year as long as your on their ofrenda, you're into the living world to receive gifts. This is similar to a memory TripleDent gum - But either way, a friend or not, as long as just one in the mind of any person anywhere, you'll still be allowed in the City of the Dead. One orb is all you need to keep you alive in the afterlife, you know what I mean. But if you are completely forgotten, then much like Bing Bong, you And that right there, the concept of being remembered is the very point of the Pixar theory to actively remember to look to the past as because those who are not And once you're aware of it, you'll start to notice this every single Pixar movie. In &quot;Toy Story&quot;, the toys by their owner because I mean, look at Wheezy, he's sick because he's nearly forgotten and the prospector is by being in a museum. Bob Parr is afraid that if everyone just then Mr. Incredible, his Marlin's quest to save Nemo is as much about remembering his wife as it is rescuing his son. Then we have Dory who has and spends an entire movie showing just how tragic forgetting found her parents and not even realized. Arlo is controlled by the guilt and memory of his father's death make him proud until his him he's him and more. Barley is also controlled of not saying goodbye to his dad. While Ian is driven forward any memories with his dad. In &quot;Ratatouille&quot; Gusteau's and dragged through the mud and Remy is out to set it straight. Joe is convinced the only is as a great piano player everyone who matters to him. Carl can't let Ellie's memory die and carries it around as literal baggage until he's saved by remembering and how she'd want him to live. The cars on the other hand, as machines, are starkly not concerned Doc and Lightning both scoff at legacy and it almost seems like to prevent humans from But then there's also and active remembering a little plant. I mean, how that the only plant anywhere near him managed to grow inside of a refrigerator with no access to sunlight or water? It's almost like Wall-E has a soul. Oh, you think Wall-E Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool. I mean 22 was on Earth for one day and they spend the entire And what does Wall-E do all day? (laughs) Actually, on that note, as soon as the captain and all the passengers on The guess what happens to But while they had forgotten about it. (ominous crashing) But finally that brings us back to &quot;Brave&quot; right where we started, of them all lives in the witch's hut. On the back of her door exists no business existing in medieval Scotland and yet there it is, a carving of Sully. This is because the witch is the witch is Boo. Oh, you need more proof. Well, for one, she's obsessed with bears and Sully looks like a giant bear. And that might be how she remembered him if you only ever knew Two, she has a carving of the And like what? (laughs) How would she even know what that is if she isn't from the future? And three, where did Sully come from when she was a little girl? A magic door. And what does the witch have on her hut? A magic door. What a weird memory to chase You'd probably think you were going crazy, but part of you would always with a giant talking bear. But like was it just a dream? It must have been because giant talking - [Meilin] People still talk - Oh right? But they do. And can you imagine how the would affect the then adult Boo? Discovering that this kind Boo would be roughly 47 around that time, just the age to have a teenage child, likely of Asian descent, probably dressed in flowers like her door because that's how people But I gotta tell you, Meilin's friend Abby. Which bad news, means that adult Boo not a fan of 4*TOWN. - Mine called it stripper music. - Which it gets to be fair, doesn't mean she doesn't like it. But it does likely mean she to ask Meilin's family about the events of Panda-pocalypse would've been very I mean at bare minimum a lot about bear magic, which is the exact kind of I mean, going back to her wood shop, does the amount of wood the giant red panda shrine? And if she discovered time travel as well, which not for nothing is in the in universe film - Sox, how long were we gone? - Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow. 22 years, 19 weeks, and four days. - Then she could have who went back and gave Sun into the panda in the first place, thus ensuring an infinite loop where her future self would And she is good with this trick. In fact, it's the very that Sully himself never To ensure that Sully is never forgotten. Because again, all you need But so how do you ensure that never fades by going into the past from the future, thus As long as she stays here and sets the events of &quot;Brave&quot; in motion, she ensures the future will always happen. She'll always go on to and meet Sully, who will and ensure the memory never dies. And believe it or not, also explains where the We're finally there. (clapping) (water splashing) Here's how it works. We mentioned earlier that the sea monsters were able Once the humans returned, the sea monsters would and eventually they could and create an entire race of monsters. But so how did the sea to begin with? Well, it's pretty simple. The first sea monster was from the future. In fact, we already know for sure of at least one banished sea monster in &quot;Monsters Inc.&quot; - Lochness, Bigfoot, They all got one thing in - Indeed. Now granted Lochness and we're in Italy and but that's not much of a you can be banished in - Welcome to the Himalayas. - Thank you Abominable. Yes, the Himalayas, which is where Mike and Sully are banished to, proving that the monsters are and location to banish multiple monsters. But even so, you must be thinking, wow, they must have had to like were they just No, don't forget, the sea monsters all share one particular a massive concern for the which is that above the And we all know how the - 2319, we have a 2319! - So really, banishment It's more like relocation, which then would also be banished to the Italian Riviera. They're not trying to punish you for looking like a human above water. The people at the top know but obviously you can't live here. So just live in this nice place. We'll even send everyone to the same place. But once again, it's an example of how the or the past, depending on how But the point is, it all and that future is Sully and his memory will never be forgotten. And that is the Pixar theory. Woo. Thank you guys so much for watching our updated Pixar theory that was a really long writing session, but I hope you all enjoyed it. The Pixar universe is to like fill in all the gaps on. Every time we get another movie, I'm like, I don't know how this is gonna fit. But then it always does, so perfectly, and it is like my favorite thing. (epic crashing) If you have any other questions or fun Easter eggs you've Or just wanna let us know, what is your favorite Pixar movie? Let us know in the towel But Ben, otherwise, until next time, I will see you in another life brother. Oh, oh, also, at some point there was a colony of ants