[narrator] Dolphins paying a visit and bear islands. Polar ice meets a mini Sahara. All of this is the Baltic Sea. Between Denmark and the Baltics, sandy coasts attract mass tourism. As well as individual travelers. And unusual beachcombers. The first episode takes us via the Darss Peninsula to the endless beaches of Latvia. Tranquil, the Baltic Sea. For many, it doesn't deserve but here, too, the wind The Baltic is different to other seas. An inland sea with saltwater in the west and fresh water in the north-east. It is the youngest ocean in the world, evolved after the last Ice Age. To this day, wind and waves ..transports sand, excoriated from the cliffs of the Ice Age. High dunes grow. And long sandy beaches, that via prevailing currents, especially characterize the west and southern regions of the Baltic. Like at Denmark's northernmost point There, a very special sandbank This is the divide between Where the North Sea meets the Baltic. Seals come here to relax. Because tourists are also attracted they prefer to give birth somewhere else. Due to the North Sea connection, the water here It is clear and full of kelp forests. In the middle of the Kattegat between Denmark and Sweden, is the island of Anholt. Since 1560, a lighthouse Morten Abildstrom is a ranger on Anholt, the only place in Denmark from where one can Even though it is only with binoculars. Centuries of being hunted This is why they now meet on a sandbank on the east side of the island. Mid-June, the mothers give birth to one pup respectively, each weighing in at around ten kilograms. Mothers suckle their young for five weeks. The milk has a fat content of some 45%, more than ten times that of cow's milk. A real-life energy drink. The birds are in for a treat. The placenta is a feast, With more than a thousand animals, the seal colony on Anholt In order to produce sufficient milk, the mother has to keep leaving her young and go hunting in the sea for fish. The seal babies spend in a makeshift kindergarten. But, every three to four hours, their enormous appetite Then they call for their mother. Here, they risk [seal pup moans] On her return, the mother, too, She recognizes him by his smell amongst roughly The other mothers as they will only suckle their own baby. Which means continuing the search and repeated calls to the mother. [seal pup crying] At last, she has recognized And greets her baby, before she gives him anything to eat. While one can only observe the family life of the timid seals on Anholt beachcombers run the risk the nurseries of other animals. The chicks of the common ringed plover just duck their heads to the ground, fully trusting that they are So as not to betray the chick's location, the parents land a short distance away. Before they quietly approach beneath their wing feathers. Little terns breed in just a few areas along the Baltic Sea. The chicks are rarely the parents lighter As pretty as they may be, once they sit in a debris trough, the little terns As a rule, they hatch two to three eggs, and this mostly undisturbed, as 90% of the Island of Anholt is under nature conservation. Unlike the North Sea, tides are virtually non-existent in the Baltic. This is why the beaches For the young seals, Despite the fact that they can swim The mothers eventually And even if some of them spend their time the young animals Five weeks after their birth and the young already weigh They will need the fat reserves too, then, when the mother leaves them, there is nothing they can do and this doesn't happen right away. Seals can spend but their dives rarely last Up to eight centimeters of fat protect the seal against cooling. Once their coat has become wet, it no longer isolates them very well. Seals live almost only a few of them off southern Sweden. Epidemics such as distemper have caused the deaths Thanks to strict protection rules, their stocks have been replenished. Now, once again, some 16,000 seals inhabit the sandbanks. South of the Kattegat, limit the exchange with the North Sea. The water here contains less salt, and this is where the inland sea The hills are moraines, deposits from glaciers of the Ice Age. Cliffs, like those on the island of Fyn, are derogations of similar hills. They're not made of sand, but clay, which is much firmer. A perfect foundation for sand martins. Each spring, returns from their African The birds check whether the old holes And they have to find a new partner... as the sand martins' breeding community lasts but one summer. Hollowed out side by side the burrows are inaccessible The arm-long ducts rise toward the end to prevent rain from entering them. The nesting recess must now be made just a little cozier. The martins use seaweed with which to upholster the nest before they begin to lay In better years, in the loamy cliffs of the Pleistocene. They make good pastureland and cropland. Additionally, the Danish island worlds offer ideal breeding and mating regions for waterfowl such as shelducks and redshanks. In the shallow shore areas, the male scuttles, While the common ringed plovers [birds chirping] The redshank has been successful the pairing is an artistic balancing act. When the shelducks are overcome an entire horde of males, discernible by their red frontal tubercles pester a single female. [birds nattering] The courtship consists of wild pursuits, attacks, sham fights. And even aerial combat. Until a couple finally emerges. It's astonishing The reason? It's unnecessary for the females because shelducks lay their eggs for example, in old rabbit holes. The Storebaelt, a sound. Most of the fresh water flows through here from the North Sea to the Baltic Sea. This is extremely important. A suspension bridge connects the island of Fyn with Sjaelland in the east. Around 11,000 porpoises live between Kattegat and the Bay of Kiel. The world's smallest whales rarely achieve sizes in excess From a distance and at first sight, they look like miniature dolphins. But they are more timid as they don't perform capers. Marine animals that require live in this part of the Baltic Sea. In the depths, heavy, salty water flows out of the Kattegat southwards. This carries oxygen and is vital for the Baltic Sea to take a breath. And for a rich marine fauna, food for the porpoises that eat roughly a tenth of their body weight. The mini whales are sensitive to noise. Noise from ships damages their hearing and banishes them from many regions. Unfortunately, noise from offshore wind turbines The Oeresund Bridge with Denmark's capital, Copenhagen. With Rosenborg Castle in the King's Garden and Nyhavn Canal with its gabled houses. From here, the Island of Mon with its six kilometer-long In places, the limestone wall making it higher or even the cliffs of Dover. They host a very special attraction, the fastest bird in the world. [falcon chirping] Ever since the '70s, peregrine falcons Then, in 2002 on Mon, a male falcon from Sweden met with a female falcon from Germany. Since then, annually on the chalk cliffs. By nosediving at speeds of up to 300 kilometers an hour, they capture exhausted birds [falcon calls] Once again, the female brings the prey to her young in the nesting place. A nibble here and there should be alright. But then, the mother just flies off again, with the food. An educational measure They're big enough to leave the nest [falcon calling] In the meantime, on the Danish islands of Bornholm Just south of the Storebaelt and the Fehmarnsund. In the hinterland, old farms and fields characterize the landscape. It's not only sailing boats that frolic in the far-reaching estuaries, It was back in February 2016, when Stephan Thomsen, a professional diver had a very special encounter. Two large dolphins approach him. Normally, the up to live in the North Sea and the Atlantic. But in the following weeks, the dolphins regularly meet and encircle the men In the media, the two dolphins are given the names Selfie and Delfie. They are two young, apparently on an expedition Selfie and Delfie have been living for several months. They've also been sighted There is more than enough fish like herrings and cod. Thomsen has even been able to see how Selfie and Delfie whirl up silt to hunt for food undercover. Typical of dolphins, Selfie and Delfie attract the inquisitive who are rewarded It's unclear why dolphins have never made the Baltic Sea a long-term habitat. There is enough for them to eat they can also survive the winter here. After four weeks the now famous couple swim toward Denmark. They are probably following leaving the Baltic Sea behind them again. South of the fjord lies Dassow Bay and the Trave, which flows through Lubeck. The former center of the Hanseatic League is known as the gateway to the north, from whence merchant cogs sailed to Scandinavia Eastward, along the Mecklenburg coast, break-off edges Narrow strips of sand, isthmuses and peninsulas and behind them, lagoons, like the Salzhaff near Rerik. The long, sandy beaches of the former fishing village with a ferry harbor A little further on the Darss peninsula. Waves spill into the forest and flush out the roots of trees like here on the west beach The Western Pomerania Lagoon also comprises the lagoons in the east. Each autumn, the lagoons attract tens of thousands of cranes and Eastern Europe. Before their flight to Spain, they top up their fat depots To prevent cranes from ravaging already cultivated fields however, the farmers distribute maize and wheat on harvested areas as a distraction. In contrast to storks, crane families The young birds can be recognized They search for food during the day. [cranes cawing] Before it gets dark, the large birds Their thousand-fold trumpeting can be heard for miles around. They gather by the shallow waters At the easternmost area of the peninsula is one of the most important for cranes in Central Europe. Sometimes, up to 40,000 birds meet here at one time, protected by the national park. The cranes spend the night or by standing in knee-high waters. This protects them from attacks by foxes while they're asleep. [cranes cawing] Not only cranes make their way Deer are also keen on a trip to the beach. Red deer, like these tagged ones, wander over 40 kilometers, from the islands of Rugen and Hiddensee to the westernmost point of the Darss. The animals regularly between island and mainland. Their aim, the stag rut. [deer wailing] Not in the forest but in the reeds. Whilst wandering, they traverse offshore reed islands. Crossing the Baltic Sea in doing so. The relatively shallow waters are no barrier for red deer. The coast is undergoing constant change. Currents, waves and winds cause it to continuously reshape. The mainland turns into exposed mudflats, sometimes more, but always shallow. And, so finally, the red deer manage to meet in the dunes to the west of the peninsula. [deer wailing] Hunting has been forbidden here since the founding of the national park and this has changed No sign of a timid king of the forest. The bellows of the deer a sound designed to impress the females and scare off any competition. Sometimes, a threat is sufficient But there are times And the situation leads to a duel Attentively eyed by the hinds. [deer bellowing] Originally, the red deer Hunting, road construction and the absence of rest zones, all forced the deer into the forest. On the Darss in the autumn, one can observe them in their own natural way. [deer wailing] The next morning, cranes, too, have early risers and sleepyheads. An hour passes by until the very last of them has flown off. Most of the animal visitors by the beginning of November Some wander back across the sea from whence they came. Others fly southwards Peace returns to the Darss. In October 2015, a rare wanderer A Sowerby's beaked whale, belonging to the least investigated They normally live in the North Atlantic, sometimes in the North Sea. This three and a half meter-long female has simply got lost. The whale keeps jumping out of the water, which is unusual. In contrast to dolphins, when beaked whales jump out of water, it is a sign of stress. Normally, in the open sea, they dive up to 1,000 meters deep The beaked whale never did find Weeks later, the female is found sadly, she simply died of starvation. Ordinarily, winters in the German But every ten years, frost and snow have an icy cold grip on the land. Then, the red deer find little food in the Darss Forest. They do have a dense winter coat, the fur being about double as long with thick woolly hair underneath. But they still have to save energy. In times of hardship, of their limbs and reduce their pulse. Meanwhile, all exertion the fat reserves conserved to the peaceful woods On the border to which, almost unchanged, are the old fishing villages The limestone cliffs on Rugen belong to the Jasmund National Park, the second one on the German sector [bird chirping] Beech forests, where the black woodpecker evolve on the chalky ground The primeval forests offer Europe's biggest woodpecker Spring causes the leaves to sprout, hundreds of thousands on old beech trees. Ever since Jasmund its beech forests are on the right road to becoming real jungles. The way in which they covered Since 2011, Jasmund, with the largest contiguous beech forest has been a UNESCO world heritage site. The old forests with their large spaces are ideal for the black woodpecker, with a wingspan The typical call of the male and his completely red crest, distinguish him from the female The young in the cave As baby food, he has brought them ants, wood-dwelling beetles and their larvae... which he finds where dead trees In the protected national park, the red deer, like on the Darss, are active during the day. At the end of the winter, Now, a new set is growing, In the spring, as if emulating a boy band. They won't become rivals again Some prefer the underground level badgers. The subterranean constructions can reach depths of up to five meters. Large families live in them, often several generations side by side. Badgers are normally timid and nocturnal. But in many areas of Jasmund, it is so quiet that they even come out A female badger can give birth The bigger ones are allowed for food with their parents. Badgers have extremely good noses. Although they are martens and are therefore also predators, apart from insects, worms they also eat roots, blossoms and fruit. But if they feel disturbed, they quickly disappear Not far from Konigsstuhl in Jasmund, we find the conservation island of Vilm. Further east, with the pier at Ahlbeck, Just a few kilometers further and Poland begins, with its secluded With coastlines full of bays and lagoons, which provide primordial returnees a home. In the 14th century, bison were wiped out in Western Pomerania. But in the 1980s, the wild cattle were once again settled just west of Szczecin. Today, more than 80 bison The 11,000 hectare-large between the Baltic Sea has dedicated itself for decades to the protection of the wild cattle. Hope is indeed in sight for the kings of the forest. The sandy beaches and dunes that stretch from Poland to Lithuania seem endless. The most well-known dune An almost 100 kilometer-long barrier of the finest sand, between the Curonian Lagoon and the sea. The continual winds have piled up shifting sand dunes, more than 70 meters high. This area was covered with forests until the early 17th century. After deforestation, nothing could stop the shifting sand. Sometimes a dune could wander ten meters in the space of three to four days. Those that could, and rebuilt them elsewhere. But the sand still buried The village of Nida disappeared twice 200 years ago, it was decided to reforest the dunes and halt the advance of the sand. To this day, crosses in the sand beneath which complete villages In the third carnation wooden, triangular flags, have been turning in the wind since 1730. Once, they were attached to the masts Today, the forest protects the village and harbor from the tall dunes, once again encircled Hunters and pollutants once caused them to disappear The Curonian Spit is full of fish. The steep slopes of the dunes make a perfect lookout for the hunt or to check whether someone else When white-tailed eagles and common ravens act like the best of friends, A young eagle, has found a dead fish on the beach. This attracts the hungry. Other young eagles. They may still be inexperienced But they know the art of dispute. [bird cawing] The fight ends Thanks to strict protection rules, Lithuania's skies many of them over the Curonian Spit. Further eastwards, bronze-hued rivers flow into the sea, tinged from the peat The Gauja is the wildest It winds its way more than 450 kilometers, deep into the forests of the country. The harbingers of the north live here. Moose appreciate cold winters This moose cow already has a calf but her flanks The calf is one of around 8,000 of the country's moose population. The west of Latvia The numerous rivers have sweetened the Baltic Sea. The water now contains The deserted beaches lead to Cape Kolka, Courland's northernmost point. Here, the Baltic Sea Despite all of the lighthouses, ships in the bay have often run aground They are a magnet for gray seals. Apparently, a hundred years ago, hundreds of thousands of these sea mammals At the end of the 1990s, there were just 1,500 of them left. When hauling fish, gray seals can dive 140 meters for up to 20 minutes and even catch notoriously fast salmon in the process. Each one of the more than two meter-long and up to 300 kilogram heavy seals eats around ten kilograms of fish Fishermen therefore almost wiped them out as unwelcome competitors. The wreck in the Bay of Riga could be seen as a kind of compensation. The seals popular meeting place is a sunken fish trawler. In the end, the fishermen have supplied their old rivals with a place in the sun. Since the seals are no longer hunted, they have propagated well. Now, more than 30,000 gray seals populate the coasts of the Baltic Sea. The world's youngest ocean. This second episode immerses us into a world comprising between Estonia, Sweden's Gotland and the Finnish Archipelago Sea. Saaremaa is one of more than and the country's largest. At the southern tip, the 52 meter-high Sorve lighthouse towers over the Baltic Sea, whose beaches to the south of Saaremaa are pebbly and flat. In the north, the impressive Panga Cliff. A more than 20 meter-high and more than 400 million-year-old Thanks to countless bays, the island's coast is and, to this day, almost unspoiled. Because Saaremaa was once a prohibited Soviet military zone. In September, the elk rutting season begins in the forests [moose whiny] The mating calls of the elk cow acoustically signalize to the bull But her smell also implies the same. [bird cawing] Often, the female scrapes off and marks them with a secretion. When flehming, the bull perceives the smell He then lifts his upper lip to be able to smell her properly. In the roof of his mouth is a special olfactory organ. Timing is important for both sexes, as the elk cow is only fertile The bull sniffs time and again, searching for the right moment. Should he miss it, the next possibility to mate But the cow is not ready. She still suckles the calf It will be weaned Another bull brushes off hanging in bloody shreds from his antlers. When the rutting season begins, The velvet then perishes. To be able to produce so much bone is an enormous physical feat. Especially as the antlers of a large bull can weigh 20 kilograms. The time is right the very next morning. At first, the elk cow runs off. But the bull refuses to leave her side. Until his advances The actual mating takes but a few seconds. But will be repeated as a precaution. He is clearly too late. But there are many other cows which one can smell and adhere to until they are ready and willing. [bird cawing] [moose grunts] The island of Saaremaa is the fourth largest in the Baltic Sea. It was once a wealthy trade center. The castle in Kuressaare and is one of the best preserved forts of the Middle Ages in the entire Baltics. Seal researchers Mart Jussi take an hour to travel from Kuressaare to a few tiny islands in the Bay of Riga. March. In the past, the sea was mostly Winters now are often warmer and the gray seals have on which to bring their offspring Normally, the babies are born in pack ice. This is why they have creamy white fur, which once camouflaged them perfectly. Nowhere else in the Baltic Sea are more gray seal babies born For years now, scientists arrive here How many newborn are there? How many survive the initial weeks? And how many die? In 2016, more than 2,000 young seals It sounds like a lot, but that makes 1,000 seals less The researchers want to discover, what influence the warm winters on the propagation success of the seals. Seal babies that are born prematurely, ostensibly have the best chances. They are already four weeks old and are losing their white baby fur. Those born later are at a disadvantage. Because the researchers set up cameras, they know that the little ones are permanently on the move. Constant quarreling costs energy. Each baby laid on the frozen sea Now, the mother, has to look hard amongst [seal moans] Because all of the little seals returning mothers They are followed by hungry youngsters. All of them hoping This is exhausting As when suckling, both mother and child want to be undisturbed. The fluffy baby fur is designed But on the beach, the needle points significantly over zero. [seal squealing] Because the warm winter they cool off in water. The babies can swim and dive from birth. In the first weeks of their lives, they only go into the sea when they The reason? Their fur is not waterproof. Only adult fur is water repellent. This means that and use energy that In warm winters, the young gray seals are therefore weaker Almost 95% survive on the ice. Of the youngsters just two-thirds make it. This is a consequence of climate change. Diseases are also transmitted faster Three weeks after the birth of the young, the gray seal's mating season begins and with it, All over the beach, A fully grown male can weigh more Thick folds of neck skin from a rival's bites. But most of them have fresh wounds And scars from past disputes. The bulls reach sexual maturity at the age of four or five. But it's not until they're eight, that they are strong enough Yet, only a fifth of all youngsters are fathered by the victors The dominant bulls have the biggest harem. Sometimes up to ten females on the beach. But in the water, weaker bulls are simply waiting for a favorable opportunity and it's from them that a large part of the newborn animals derive. The colossi can be astoundingly gentle. Many small islands further the remnants of an ancient coral reef protrude from the sea. Sweden's Gotland is the second Like Estonian Saaremaa, it largely consists of over 400 million-year-old chalk plateaus, which developed from corals that then grew in warm seas, as Gotland and Saaremaa Golden eagles breed in the sparse forests, not on rocks, certainly not on gold, as the name would imply, but in trees. Gotland is eagle land. Fifty-five pairs breed on an area that is just slightly bigger more than anywhere else in Europe. Summers on the &quot;Sunshine Island&quot;, are more Mediterranean Rabbits, too, that initially came feel good here. Despite being Rabbits live in colonies and, if necessary, warn one another. When attacked, they stamp so that everyone can hide Not all of them are fast enough. Apart from rabbits, Gotland's eagle chicks are also served squirrel The food is first split Seven weeks after hatching, they can prepare the prey themselves. Eagle females are significantly larger than their male counterparts. Both of them take care of their offspring until he finally becomes independent and flies over Gotland. The landscapes of the island and characterized by limestone. Sometimes the lakes glow turquoise The chalk slabs, hard as cement, offer few, if any, On the coasts stand 40 meter-tall cliffs of ancient coral rock, full of fossils. Shells of prehistoric squid, mussels and snails. The calcareous and nutrient-poor soil is ideal for orchids. Some 35 species flourish on Gotland. Marsh orchid and lady's slipper. Its blossom is an insect trap. Due to the smooth walls, insects can find just one way out again pollinate the treacherous plant. A rarity also blooms on Gotland's meadows, Orchis spitzelii. North of the Alps, The collared flycatcher also has an odd area of distribution. The migratory bird breeds south and then again on Gotland. Both, orchid and flycatcher benefit from a traditional form To this day, tree branches are sawn off and used as a winter food for livestock. The sparse wooded meadows But the exotic turquoise sheen is destroying idyllic Gotland. Since time immemorial, limestone has been used In the meantime, like here in Kappelshamn, Further mining sites are planned, where national parks have been earmarked. A 45-minute boat ride is Stora Karlso. The two and a half square meter after Yellowstone, Razorbills lay a solitary egg as of the end of May. [bird chortling] Over a month-long period, the parents alternate breeding duties. Per-Arvid Berglund photographs on behalf of the Baltic Seabird Project. Seven thousand five hundred pairs Stora Karlso is the largest bird rock Apart from razorbills, 14,000 pairs of common guillemots inhabit the steep cliffs. Thanks to their powerful beaks, the razorbills are simple to distinguish with their sharp beaks. Both belong to the auk birds and resemble the penguins and way of life, but can also fly. After roughly four weeks, the razorbill chicks have hatched They remain there for a further and enjoy the fish They live relatively safe Not so with the guillemots. Up to 20 pairs often breed on an area the size of a bath towel. They lay their pear-shaped egg This sparks interest. The hooded crow conducts a foray. [crow caws] Protectively, the guillemot parents But the crow simply tears them away. The neighbors support one another, but at one point, a guillemot rolls himself The crow was too slow. And a gull benefits. The crow grabs the next adult bird and ends its foray successfully. [bird squeaks] [bird cawing] The breeding birds are constantly and all the neighbors together [bird squealing] The parents have to leave to hunt for food for their chicks Large swarms of sand eels don't only attract guillemots. Razorbills and gulls also benefit Guillemots seem to be able Their dives last up to three minutes. When they return home they hold the bagged sand eel and not crosswise. So that the neighbors and that it lands where it should, for the hungry chicks. Back to Gotland, where on an area three times the size of Berlin, just 57,000 people live. A cultivated landscape with grazing land... farmhouses... and the old Hanseatic town of Visby. With its old churches around the historic town center, Visby is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The island even boasts [sheep bleat] Gotland sheep are considered robust Ideal for the nutrient-poor, chalky soil on which farming is hardly possible. Their wool with its ringlets Snow hares were most probably long ago by humans. There, where modest sheep just roam free and create dry grasslands, is an ideal habitat for the hares. And the northern wheatear, who rears his young between the rocks. [bird chirping] Just off Gotland's cliffs also made of limestone. And far too small for settlements. [birds nattering] The Caspian terns, find a safe breeding place on the islands. With a wingspan of almost they're almost as large as herring gulls. Once a year, they lay two to four eggs in a flat recess in the sand. [chick wailing] Even when the first young have hatched, the parents remain sitting, [chicks wailing] Sixty pairs breed on the island. It is obvious that The parents bring one fish after another. Only sometimes, for just how much is enough for a chick. Life in the colony would be sublime, if it were not for the neighbors. For some, a meter gap And should the youngsters have yet again many a swallow doesn't know [bird cawing] Until a swan throws everyone Normally, the hustle and bustle But this time, it was just a false alarm on the sea swallow island. Waves and wind They slowly dissolve it. The surf works with force along the entire coast of Gotland and hollows out the chalk cliffs, causing them at some time to break away. Therefore, steep edges The coast is crumbling, emaciated by the forces of erosion. Only a few especially hard defy the weathering. They are the Raukar, bizarre rock formations, shaped by the Baltic Sea Below, the sea simply leaving it as slim as a model's foot. At the top, a wide head. This is how Gotland's some of them ten meters tall and fire the imagination, It's June on the Stora Karlso bird rock, the climax of the guillemot year The chicks have grown significantly, and the parents refuse It's time for them The chicks can't fly yet. Nonetheless, the parents still encourage the youngsters to jump off Some mothers With a bit of luck... [splashing] ..the free-fall ends in the water. [birds chirping] From here, the father calls. The little guillemot can swim immediately and follows his dad out into the open sea. The guillemot jump on Stora Karlso is an attraction for birdwatchers and is fully booked months in advance. Each evening, lots are drawn to determine who is allowed on the beach. The winners help the biologists At dawn, it's all systems go. This way they are more protected against enemies such as gulls. Guillemots leap from all over the rocks. In this night alone, the bird friends weigh In 2016, over 4,400. The youngsters are living crumple zones. Thanks to their frizzy feathers they don't injure themselves. The first guillemots were ringed here too, At 43, the world's oldest known guillemot also received its ring here Back at the beach, And immediately, [bird chirping] He is already waiting, to swim with the chicks There, the waters are shallow The mothers stay behind, while the little ones There, where three-quarters on the bird rock of Stora Karlso. Three hundred kilometers north of Gotland, there are tens of thousands of flat and rocky islands and islets. The inner skerries, close to the mainland, are wooded and sometimes inhabited. The outer skerries comprise mostly of bare rocks in the Baltic Sea. Some fifty to eighty thousand islands are located between Sweden and Finland. Depending on what Bengtskar is Finland's southernmost with a lighthouse In the summer, a hotel. Then, many gray seals wander from the coasts of Estonia to the Archipelago Sea, The young animals, born this winter, are meanwhile independent For the adults, They itch all over, or rather, the skin beneath the skin. The seals change their fur and then love nothing more [seagulls cawing] Their skin is well-circulated in order to provide them with nutrients for the regrowth of the new fur. If they were to stay in the water because of the hair change, they would lose too much warmth Irrespective of its size, every single island is therefore occupied. Even though there are many rocks, competition for an island Some seals try it on with obtrusiveness The seal on the rock can now plan, do or say what it wants. The one in the water gets on her nerves. And is eventually successful. As if there weren't enough stones Some are polished completely round from the glaciers of the Ice Age. In many, frost and water in which black guillemots They are also auks. But contrary to the common guillemot, they don't breed in colonies Alone or in small groups they have their nests This one has bagged an eelpout The black guillemot gets away as he has no neighbors The mostly two chicks from a clutch wait well-concealed Dinner at last. [bird chirping] Then, a little patience is necessary, until the parents return On the inner skerries with the old, the white nights It's still daylight, Yet still, the great gray owl, the largest in Europe, needs his auditory senses for hunting. Thanks only to his sensitive ears, he can even hear the quietest rustling. [bird chirping] Summertime is breeding season. The chicks have already hatched. Always hungry. Can I have some more? A little bird on the menu makes a change. That keeps the old birds on the go. The larger chicks sit on branches But are still taken care of. The parents seem to be open all hours. The main prey, field voles. The branch dwellers are served with food for up to three months If they want it. [chick chirping] But if they are not hungry... then their siblings are in for a treat. [chick chirping] The youngsters of any given couple Great gray owls lay their eggs but begin breeding immediately. The chicks therefore But they grow quickly they have increased After four weeks, they become branchlings. Aged five months, they leave their parents territory The Finnish Archipelago Sea. A labyrinth of thousands of islands. More than 200 of them belong to the Archipelago National Park. Some of them are so big, that there is room A female brown bear on an outing with her cubs of the previous year. Bear young often spend In sparsely inhabited Finland, bears are well protected and live from the Russian border [bear moans] They strike down their prey with their paws and long claws, as well as digging caves or just keeping their eyes closed The biggest predators are omnivores, which means they also graze or search for sweet berries. Their most important sensor is the nose. Brown bears can smell food from miles away or conspecifics. Deadly peril is about. A male bear. Those looking for a partner Mother bear warns her cubs. If he killed her youngsters, she would be fertile again in a few days and he could become father. Another good use for paws with claws. If things did turn out bad, the little ones have to be able An adult brown bear is too heavy The male bear has picked up the scent... of an even bigger rival. The younger one has respect The mother seizes the opportunity. They are in safety. At least, as long Another female They were born just a few months ago. Without attracting attention, she quickly grabs her offspring The mother swims first. And the little bears bring up the rear. Together, they cross the narrow waterways of the Finnish Baltic. And thus make it from skerry to skerry. Through a sea created in the Baltic Sea during the last Ice Age. The third episode takes us roughly the same size as Slovakia, yet the least known region The Gulf of Bothnia is frozen over A white ocean, roughly 300 kilometers long and 150 kilometers wide. The ice shield, up to one meter 20 thick, covers the entire north of the Baltic Sea. But one animal makes it through. The ringed seal After common seals and gray seals, it is the third type of seal Roughly 10,000 animals With their strong claws they regularly scrape out breathing holes and extend them Ringed seals need the ice to survive. Because this is their nursery. The baby was born in the middle of winter in a protected cave, which the mother dug out With access to the sea, of course, so that the mother can suckle her baby She has laid out an entire system of exits in the icy subterranean labyrinth. It is still not entirely clear just how she finds her way around there. Ringed seals can dive in depths of up to 300 meters But they too have to breathe some time. Unlike in the Arctic, where ice bears and polar foxes lurk, ringed seals are relatively safe At the most, a sea eagle with a wing span and strong claws could grab a baby seal. This is too big for him. It still flees to be on the safe side. The eagle has other prey He's after a herring gull, which he corners and causes to panic. [gull cries] Until it finally spits out the fish that it has just caught. [gull cawing] Tenacity and in-flight acrobatics eventually lead to the desired result. When the sun goes down it conjures colorful light games Northern lights glow when solar winds meet with the Earth's atmosphere. Sometimes, the cosmic phenomena [whooshing] But at times they disappear The northern part of the Baltic from mid-October right up to May. In the Gulf of Bothnia, the salt content registers This is why the water freezes more quickly than in other regions of the Baltic Sea. Many river flow into the sea here and sweeten it. Like the 400 kilometer-long Tornio, probably Europe's longest natural river. Just 80 kilometers south and close to the estuary, it forms the border The rapids of Kukkolaforsen do not freeze over in the winter either. The river therefore remains even at temperatures That's why the otter can hunt here and how he can even live His fur comprises around 50,000 hairs per square centimeter, more than 400 times more This protects the otter from cold Under the ice, and remain underwater He needs open water to draw breath. Here on the River Tornio, he doesn't have to keep As he loses a lot of warmth despite his dense fur, the exuberant animal needs fish, crabs and other aquatic animals. Thanks to the rapids, yet another diver The white-throated dipper. After a short dive, it returns to the ice While the otter rolls around in the snow it grabs hold of the next larvae that it skilfully removes and gobbles it down. The diving songbird and the restless water marder both find food in the cold season that soon meets connected with one another It is the northern end of the Baltic Sea and the south of Lapland. A landscape characterized by open, coniferous forests. The home of reindeer. Close to the Baltic coast, the snow in winter is not as high This makes life easier for the deer scraping food free with his wide hooves, primarily lichens and moss. Like snow shoes, and prevent them from sinking too deeply. They are not wild reindeers, but the Sami's half wild, They have markings on their ears or wear collars Each winter, the reindeer breeders bring their herds to the lower levels They have to search for food themselves. They often take off from island to island on their search for new feeding grounds. They even scratch around under birdhouses for seeds in people's front gardens. But the deer remain timid. Whenever a sledge comes close, they disappear in the vastness on Lapland's coast. Three hundred kilometers south of Lapland lies the Kvarken archipelago. Here, too, the Baltic is covered in ice. And in between, corrugated like enormous washboards, jutting out from the sea. The skerry sea of Kvarken is known to be especially rich in fish. This is why Finland's west coast Vesa Heinonen and Jukka Viita A white-tailed sea eagle scrutinizes each step they make. They reopen the hole in the ice Nothing new for the eagle. Ice fishing in temperatures is a national sport in Finland. The two men bring in the long twine on which they'd attached And pull out a pike, The eagle has to be patient. It's not his turn until the men leave after a successful bout of fishing. [eagle cawing] Like almost everywhere else, sea eagles almost became extinct in Finland, too, in the 1970s. A few had managed to survive [birds cawing] Nowadays, in the summer, around 35 couples breed here. [eagles cawing] Sometimes in the winter, as many as 300 eagles have been spotted. But they cannot hunt They would normally migrate Leftovers from the ice anglers and especially created food points help the eagles and other birds [birds angrily squawking] And still they quarrel. In most places, the Kvarken archipelago is completely frozen over. But sometimes, currents between the thousands of islands In these areas, dozens of swans as they find their main source Mute swans, and the slightly smaller whooper swans. After being hunted in the 1950s, Finland's national bird [swans honking] Today, in the spring, their trombone-like calls [swans honking] Pairs stay together all of their lives. [swans honking] They renew their bond each spring with a synchronized [honking continues] In the meantime, almost 7,000 whooper swan pairs nestle in Finland. In the past decades, the mute swans first settled in numbers in the north of the Baltic Sea. At the end of March, break apart further out to sea. Near to the coast, bays and lagoons are still iced over, as are many rivers. As of the middle of April, temperatures rise above freezing point and the Kvarken archipelago transforms into a mosaic of islands, And a great migration begins. Most of the fish are of the freshwater variety. They can only survive because there is so little salt For their propagation however, This is why perch and roach leave the sea and head for the river estuaries, which are now full of melt water, Pikes follow them. The perch immediately position to appear larger Pikes, too, spend most of the year but in the spring they leave behind the coastal line to spawn. This narrow channel connects When the sun goes down, The fish masses attract hunters. [birds squawking] They come from the air. And lurk on the water, great crested grebes, gulls, sea swallows. Even large, more than a meter-long pikes, worm their way to their spawning grounds. They attempt the passage Those that go astray in the process so close to their goal. Those that make it to the other side [bird cawing] Sea eagles and gulls. Crows and cranes. The ringed eagle has known this place Many of the fish are exhausted, they die or are at least easy prey. Even for cranes, who normally live but here can tear apart a big pike The time of spring feelings Despite all of their losses, the propagation of sufficient fish This is extremely dangerous for male pike. As the significantly bigger females are also quite keen on Fortunately for the males, the females have a bite inhibition Several males court one particular her. But only one of them comes into play The complete pairing takes hours. Pikes don't lay their eggs in one go. They do this in portions and in surges, altogether, often more than 100,000. They adhere to leaves. This way, they are not washed away and in ten days, they develop into larvae in the oxygen-rich water. After just a few weeks, the mini-pikes have grown several centimeters in length. The conditions are perfect. The shallow waters are full of nutrients and they warm up quickly A good day for a swim. And some prove just how contagious sheer joy can be. [cranes cawing] OK, cranes dance the whole year long, but in the spring, they go into overdrive. Then, dancing together becomes a ritual, comprising jumping, wing-flapping A sign of cohesion in the Kvarken archipelago. Here, one can see that also occurs in the Baltic Sea, Until up to around 10,000 years ago, a three kilometer-strong The weight of which used to push Then the glaciers melted, and the ground is still re-expanding. Up to today, it rises at a rate of roughly one centimeter annually. In a hundred years, and then these boathouses In many parts of the Kvarken archipelago, harbors have to be continuously moved, as due to the ground elevation, they have become unsuitable for shipping. This is why only special boats with a low draught navigate these waters. In two and a half thousand years, the islands will have risen that we'll be able to walk In the forests along the northern Baltic, moose are not exactly a rarity. Nevertheless, in 2015, one of them hit the headlines in Finland. A moose cow died The consequence, the calf lost its mother. As an orphan, it would have But it is brought to Markku Harju, who takes care of injured animals. He calls the moose calf Mervi and Mervi soon gets to wander as free as a bird. Before long, Bringing up moose babies It's difficult to obtain the correct milk. Mervi suffers from acute diarrhea. But the little fellow is tough. And the two of them Mervi seems to really like the reeds on the Baltic Sea beach. The story of the two friends and Mervi becomes a little star. For quite some time, it remains unclear whether the moose calf will make it. But in the spring of 2016, Markku takes this photo. One of Europe's rarest animals also lives in the Finnish forests. At first sight, In Europe, they can only be found in Estonia and Finland. The animals mostly spend the day in abandoned woodpecker holes. In the spring however, they are also diurnal By using skin flaps, flying squirrels are able to fly distances of up to 35 meters. It's mating time and the flying squirrels are looking for suitable partners. The female has already found She rubs her scent from cheek glands And sets marks with urine. Interested males And if he likes the smell... he really is after her. After four weeks, between two and four will be born in the protection The Kvarken archipelago is an ideal breeding ground for birds. Especially for those As predators like foxes find it difficult in so much water... to steal a small goose or to pilfer an egg from a gull's island nest. But when the redshank issues a warning, it means something. A hooded crow is approaching While one parent broods, the other is on sentry duty. This is also necessary. Hooded crows are skillful nest robbers, that never miss a moment of negligence. They're stubborn too. [birds cawing] The other gull arrives in support. Hardly banished, the crow returns and attacks once again. [angry cawing] Until the bird is chased away by an entire squad of gulls... while the first chick hatches in the nest. In the end, And clears off into the bushes where the gull cannot follow. Now, even the clamoring of the gulls In the meantime, the cranes safe from foxes The chicks still hide They don't need to go far to find food. There are insects all around the nest. Like this dragonfly larvae. And another. The chick is but a few hours old and has an appetite for four. Idyllic family life, close up and in a way very rarely seen. While the parents keep the nesting grounds they don't see that the older chick is maltreating its younger sibling. Sometimes the small bird as if a competitor. Despite there being enough to eat. When small cranes grow in size, they search for food together Then they all wade through the swamps and should the water get too deep, the stalking birds become swim birds. Just like the swan family. From the flat world and Finland's last outpost, it is no more than roughly Then, distinctive rocks Some are 150 meters tall. Many consist of red granite, which is typical of the region. The place is called Hoga Kusten. The so-called &quot;High Coast&quot; Tranquil mountain lakes and moors that lay high above the Baltic Sea. Brown bears live here. A male has picked up the scent of a female bear and is following her. In the summer, But as they are mostly loners, greetings can be quite unfriendly. [bears roaring] Right next door, someone is adamant the territory is his. [bird squawking] A red-throated diver. The male bear has had enough. She was probably not yet ready. At last, peace falls over the moor. Time to go diving undisturbed... for fish or fresh lily pads. A small red-throated diver swims, full of expectation, to his parent. And while his chick sibling he is served with a big, fat, tasty fish. Another female bear appears. The male bear picks up her scent, an enticingly odorous trail. It seems as though she is willing to mate. When the two meet, With no growling nor snarling. At the beginning of next year, We mostly talk here And soon, each of them go their own separate ways in the moors of the Hoga Kusten, high above the Baltic Sea. Nowhere else as it is here This is where the Earth's crust by the weight of the glaciers. After the ice melted, these screes once formed Since then, they have risen The current shores are around and evoke the impression must have looked 9,000 years ago. Agne Saterberg is a nature scout in Skuleskogen National Park. He once roamed through the forests In the meantime, The photographer is still impressed One should always be alert of moose. They appear cute, slow and cozy. But watch out when they feel harassed. Keep well away from a raging moose. Upset or angry moose cows have been known But this one allows another photo. Agne is satisfied. In the skerry garden, lies another work of land uplifting. The island of Trysunda The villages on the skerries were once only inhabited in the summer. Fishermen used to sail To this day, the Baltic off the High Coast This attracts several seabirds Today, on the abraded islands, western curlews rest. And eider ducks breed. Surprisingly, many Swedes don't know of the attractive drake at all. The main reason being for the mating season on the Hoga coasts. [birds squawking] Up to ten males then compete who has an inconspicuous plumage. Quite the opposite of the males who, once successful, immediately leave the coast But their cooing love calls [birds cooing] The females lay their eggs in hollows in the scree of the skerries, that they have upholstered These are acknowledged Four weeks later Their mothers soon lead them out Often, several duck parents form a giant kindergarten. The little ones can swim almost And dive, too. And it's not that easy when the air in the feathers [bird squawks] But with a bit of practice, From the very beginning, for their food themselves whilst diving. Little fish, crabs, and later, mussels on the seabed - the staple diet of the eider ducks. The only slightly salted water is fed in the north of the Baltic Sea to this day from glaciers, many of which lay off Here is the source that unite to become ever bigger rivers and surge toward the Baltic coast. The reindeer spend the warm season on the plateaus of Lapland. They move upwards, to the cooler regions to escape the mosquito plague The River Tornio also has its source and flows from there to the estuary and the Baltic Sea. In the summer, the rapids of Kukkolaforsen are a popular rafting area. The untamed river It is the most important salmon river that flows into the Baltic. Fishermen are waiting everywhere Everyone has his own method Some use rod and line. Others use landing nets. At one point, Today, thanks to strict regulations, once again hundreds of thousands of salmon aim for the spawning grounds where in the summer, just 80 kilometers from the Arctic Circle, the sun barely sets. And where in the estuary delta moose make their way along the shore The youngest in the world, with salty water in the west and fresh water in the north-east. The Baltic Sea, a child of the last Ice Age.