Al Roj Camp is in the desert close to the Iraqi border. Since the fall of the Islamic State, Arab Kurdish forces have arrested who had joined ISIS. Among them 200 in total. Living in precarious conditions, they are awaiting trial We were granted a rare chance Saida, 33 years old, is from Lunel, Since her arrival at the camp, Her journey is similar who have pledged allegiance to ISIS. In May 2015, I talked with people on Facebook. I asked about Syria and the Islamic State because I had a lot of problems so I decided to come to Syria. In one very short week, I stayed in a women's center and then I got married. Two years after returning to Syria, Saida tells us that she managed to escape She was very quickly arrested separated from her husband, and spent six months in prison After a very long procedure, she was able to repatriate Of course, I regret coming here, because I've hurt my family. I don't feel radicalized or anything. For sure, spending two years in the IS and three years here in a camp I just want to go back to my normal life like many people here Can we trust Saida and these other women? Are they a danger to society? It's hard to say. However, the unofficial doctrine is to not let in these women In particular, Military training Women practice shooting at a target. In June 2013, this propaganda video from ISIS Under the niqaab of this jihadist Emilie Konig. Originally from Lorient in Brittany, she converted to Islam A year later, she was filmed where she stood out Salam Aleikhoum, how are you doing? That day, Are you the future sister of Allah? Mash'Allah. Self-proclaimed preacher, During demonstrations in Paris, she is seen marching on the left We have to denounce Zionism as Hollande supports these murderers! A dangerous militancy. Dirty Zionists, let them burn! Murderers! A few months after this demonstration, she left the country to join the Islamic State. She is very active on social networks and is in charge to join the ranks of ISIS. Considered a threat Washington even put her of 2015. Arrested in 2017 by Kurdish forces, At the request of the French government, not to let figures We managed, however, My name is Emilie Konig. I was born on December 9, 1984, I have three children Ibrahim, in March 2015, and the Safa and Marwa twins, One of whom is sick with lung disease, It is difficult to keep young children I would like to be able at least for their safety, so that they can also go to school Here, there is nothing, A few weeks after our conversation, her three children For her, however, as for the hundreds both men and women, as of now, there is no hope Not all former ISIS fighters In fact, far from it. Where are they hiding? In the Middle East, in Europe, in France? A group of men October 2014. The Islamic State reaches its peak, it controls a territory For four years, the terrorist organization Abhorrent acts of barbarism The self-proclaimed Caliphate under the pressure and it finally collapses al-Baghdadi, killed by American forces. He died like a dog. He died like a coward. The world is now a much safer place. The Caliphate may be destroyed, but the Islamic State is far from over, especially for its supporters. Derham is a Syrian journalist For two years, whose sole mission all over the world Much like the Nazi hunters these investigators ISIS has committed too many atrocities. They killed many of my friends. They also killed four members Fleeing Syria, ISIS fighters often pass before disappearing off the grid. Is it possible for them Yes, it is possible, if they have money, During the war, a lot of Syrians Many of these guys took advantage of this. Today, they present themselves With many false passports. Among these infiltrators, we will follow the tracks of this man a former executive of the Islamic State, with witnesses to support the claims. I am willing to testify On June 20, 2024, ISIS took control Laith and his group, who had been a battalion then became supporters Today, the suspect opened We have information That you were working Listen! You are making it up! We will also track down this young man who holds up the... When he was fighting in the airport area, he used to hold the heads after decapitating them Now, the alleged former murderer in Germany. So you're absolutely sure Of course not! So you're really sure it's him? I'm not going to falsely accuse him. It's a million percent him! Tracking down former ISIS members is a very risky business. Some have paid dearly for it. Look, the first bullet hit me here. Its trace is still here. I didn't lose consciousness You can see why I have a very real hatred In France, only one former jihadist Majdi Nema: spokesman of a Syrian rebel group Very early in the morning, we see him going out around 6:15 or 6:20 He has a suitcase and a backpack, He goes in the direction so there we decide to interrogate him. It is out of the question How many jihadists Do they remain a threat undercover The ISIS hunters have started a race An investigation into the biggest manhunt South of Turkey, we are on the E90 road, This is where thousands to join the ranks of ISIS Ahmad Ramadan, 33 years old, that tracks down ISIS criminals. I'm on my way to deal with several cases, A criminal a criminal who is believed He is one of the executives Ahmad regularly publishes the findings His network's website has dozens of calls with the identity, age, place of birth, and role of the criminals Behind this manhunt, about 30 investigators, often volunteers. All have suffered at the hands of ISIS. The border is not far from here... It's convenient have the possibility to know who has left the country, On the other hand, in terms of security, They are regularly threatened... I'm the only one in the network and to show my face. After a 12-hour drive from Istanbul, Sanliurfa is a border town having the crossroads It is here that Ahmad with one of his informants, Hello, Ahmad, are you well? Yes, and you? Come in! Once inside the building, Such an obvious show of cameras would endanger the two men. The informant asked Ahmad to travel here to share this very sensitive information or over the phone. What's the news about the guy in Germany? Look, we got this video where he appears. We started to inquire about the victim. You see? His head was cut off. In the video that the informant acquired... Look at this traitor. This is our loot. A young Islamic State recruit of a regular Damascus Army soldier, that he has most likely Extreme images, He has scars like a dog. ISIS hunters got their hands on this video who is from Dahisar Ahmad and his informant It is thanks to their connections here We know that this guy went to Germany. We think that this is a sleeper cell, One of our informants with the help of a photo With video evidence to back it up, the ISIS hunters A disturbing profile who, according to Ahmad, One month later, Like thousands of Syrians, -Hello, how are you? Before hunting down ISIS criminals, he first suffered the repression Now I'm the one At the beginning of the revolutions we demonstrated every Friday for freedom. Then, when it broke out at home in Syria, When I was released, I had to leave Damascus in the north of the country. I stayed there until the arrival of ISIS. A few months later, I fled the city after my father After his father, also killed by Islamic State jihadists. Since then, day and night, particularly on social networks a goldmine for information. &quot;The Islamic State will remain! A battle was also waged on the ground. For months, Ahmad took many risks and to interview its victims. Now, far from Syria, it is the members of his group and to collect including photos and videos. This is a member of the ISIS police. And even recorded their testimonies. My aunt married an ISIS fighter in Iraq. Once certain Ahmad publishes it on his website. The response is often resounding, much like the case an important ISIS executive. We are members of the Islamic State. We are the Muslims, the jihadists, The world will get to know us. This Syrian man appeared regularly Thanks to ISIS fighters in February 2020, Turkish special forces where he had fled to. An arrest was widely reported Horrifying images and disturbing threats. On his hard drives, Ahmad stores thousands of them You apostates, we will cut your heads off God is the greatest! We promise you the fate of the pigs. How do you feel I'm almost used to it. We have carried the bodies our friends, and our loved ones. This is war. I can't deny but life goes on... Are you doing this work to avenge It's not a matter of revenge, For the young jihadist who was holding Ahmad is still waiting about his whereabouts in Germany. However, This man was an active member of ISIS. We will call this fighter Majid. We have many informants in Deir ez-Zor. We have been observing him for months. He was in charge that he collected at the Turkish border. Just before the defeat of ISIS, -Where does he live today? Another case is in Germany. We leave Istanbul but with the determination to find ends Back in Paris, we start to put together The man is very active on social networks The ISIS hunters put us in contact to their investigation. He agrees to talk to us on the condition I come from the same region I have been living in Germany I know Majid personally, I am ready to testify in a criminal court. The witness will give us key details On June 20, 2014, the Islamic State Majid and his group, who formed a battalion became supporters of the Islamic State. They supplied the Islamic State chemical fertilizers, explosives, With this testimony, we leave for Germany. Direction: Ruhr. It's an industrial region -Hello? Everything is fine, thanks. We have arrived. I will be at your place in two minutes. We have an appointment who has carried out For security reasons, Like all members Tariq has lost loved ones. His cousin was hanged in public and many of his friends were shot dead. As a political refugee in Germany, He arrived with his family in Europe in the same condition as us. The only difference is that he had money Once out of Syria, he set up a money transfer company out of the Caliphate territories would get it back once they too Through our network, we obtained this photo he had set up in the city of Elazig, This is his office. When he arrived here, and Bild picked it up. From 2015, the daily newspaper Bild It reads as follows: &quot;Police arrested a suspect &quot;at the reception center &quot;The Syrian is believed to have worked &quot;The 31-year-old man &quot;The authorities have not been able &quot;in the terrorist organization.&quot; &quot;The man arrived here about a week ago &quot;who reportedly had his leg amputated.&quot; The brother-in-law in question in Islamic State military wear in 2014. Then, a few months later, he had his leg amputated At his side is Majid, with their fingers pointed to the sky Majid lives freely in Germany This may seem shocking, The Germans say He must serve them in their fight against ISIS. His brothers are still Do you think Yes. The accusation is serious, Since his brief detention, Tariq has just obtained some new, A few months ago, Hi Ahmad, how are you? A surprising lead, the head I wanted to know that Majid had arrived in Germany. Yes. Well, he just called us to tell us that Majid has opened a massage center An ISIS executive and only earns 300 or 400 euros a month: how can he manage We have to find out. Especially since my information shows without license plates and that he offers them for sale It would be good to use a hidden camera. Let me know if you manage to film. Despite the great risk, will take an undercover camera On our side, about the other case identified The ISIS hunters have sent us pictures who they say beheaded his victims. We will call him Samir. These are pictures of him taken in Syria found on his Facebook account. In the photo on the left, Today, he's 23. He has grown up, but by the looks of it, Another crucial piece of information. His passport was issued One of the ISIS hunters obtaining this information. After seducing the suspect online she ended up to be able to send him money. In the end, Ahmad's network collected One man was willing a person who was close to Samir Before he joined he was a kid who was playing When ISIS took over he pledged allegiance He then underwent six months After returning from Iraq in early 2015, his financial situation He was driving a nice new car When he was fighting in the airport area, he used to hold the heads after cutting off their heads Sometimes he would bring these heads to the city center A proclivity for horror to quickly rise in the hierarchy as an intelligence officer. He left Deir ez-Zor for Turkey and from there he left secretly But six months later, he returned without any problem to Syria, As this picture shows, During that winter, so much so that the local press Deir ez-Zor in northern Syria and freezing temperatures. A first in 25 years. According to our witness, Samir was to leave Syria for good As his profile became clearer and clearer, we finally managed to locate him. He was heading for Baden-Wurttemberg, The suspect lives in a residential suburb We go to his house. His wife opens the door. We record the discussion. Hello... Can I ask you some questions? Is your husband here? Is he working? -My husband is at driving school... Okay, cool. Yes, my husband is training, Okay, thank you. Goodbye. Goodbye. Samir's wife confirms what we found He's taking driving lessons, He's taking lessons When Samir is finally back home, we decide to instead approach him Excuse me? -Can I ask you a question I am doing a report on this street. -What is it about? How much has the coronavirus After gaining his trust, we talked with the alleged -Where are you from, what part of Syria? -Where exactly is that? The man is indeed from Deir ez-Zor, the former economic capital because of its many oil wells. There is oil everywhere in Syria. And the oil was under the control of ISIS? Everything was under the control of ISIS. So you had to work for them? No, but I had to buy oil from them Samir doesn't admit but he does tell us My hobby was the police. -The police? Your job? A hobby that is chilling in the face that ISIS hunters accuse him of. In this first meeting, we don't mention Why did you leave Syria? I didn't want to hear so I couldn't stay there anymore. I had only three possible choices: to die, to fight against Bashar al-Assad, In any case, if I wanted to survive, And I didn't want to have blood On hearing this, Samir seems to have nothing For 45 minutes, Thank you, goodbye. It's time to take our leave. The next time we see him, This hunt, these investigations, and the findings that will follow One man learned this the hard way. For four years, Abdulkader Al-Raqqa in the Parisian suburbs. Originally from Raqqa, the self-proclaimed capital he is one of the founders to have investigated Very quickly, Abdulkader became a target Along with the other members including his brothers, It was naive of us. We were overestimated and the limits of our actions. They are ruthless guys So it was very reckless to have an office A reckless semblance of security On the morning of October 15th, 2015, Ibrahim's 22-year-old brother and Fares, were murdered. I asked my other brother to see if Ibrahim was there I reached him, and when we went in, Ibrahim was lying in the hallway. Behind the door was his severed head In one of the rooms of the apartment, The perpetrator of the killing For six months, none of the group members was an ISIS spy on a mission. An undercover agent A calculated approach worthy with the added brutality. It was a disaster and a tragedy... I felt guilty for their deaths. At that moment, I can't say anything else... After the death of his brother, ISIS offered EUR40,000 to Abdulkader but he refused. The jihadists then decided After having escaped from his first attack Abdulkader stayed sheltered On his first outing, the killers found him As I was backing up, from the right and the front. I was lucky that the person in front of me His gun jammed. -Did you see it? Look, the first bullet hit me here. I didn't lose consciousness Abdulkader was hit by three bullets, Left for dead, he miraculously survived. With seven fractures, and a dozen metal pins in his jaw, I'm sorry, I really don't feel well... In the middle of the interview, Abdulkader has to pause He must take painkillers When I have pain like this, I can't stand it. You can see why I have a visceral hatred I don't want a single member of ISIS It's not only because of the harm but also because A whole generation. Because of them, a whole generation Are you still trying to track down members Tracking, no. I have moved away from all that. If I have information that can help, However, I don't have the strength It's over. For Abdulkader, the hunt is over, but others continue Marseille, February 2020. Majdi Nema, a 32-year-old Syrian student, This arrest makes headlines in France, as Majdi Nema is a big fish. His war name is Islam Alush. He's the former spokesman one of the many jihadist groups In the name of God the Merciful, this is a statement by the chief of staff The French court His group used caged civilians to avoid bombings by the Damascus regime. We pray that the regime will stop bombing us. We are innocent. The people here and their children In 2016, where he created a new identity. One where he graduated and specialized in security and terrorism. Arriving in France in November 2019, he was arrested three months later against humanity, We had exclusive permission that arrested Islam Alush. For the first time, this officer shares When he arrived on French territory, he had a conversation and then he used a French number. We quickly managed From that moment on, we asked our colleagues and the surveillance groups of Marseille to set up It was out of the question With the surveillance setup, before the suspect Very early in the morning, He has a suitcase and a backpack. We don't know where he's going The elements on the ground determine so we let him go to do his prayer. He comes out of the mosque and heads in the direction There, An arrest was made on a public road Apparently, Was he warned? And by whom? As of now, it's unknown. The police operation is a success, but it would have been impossible based in a hidden location in Paris. In this small room, work to build cases so that they can be tried In the NGO, As for the former spokesman it was a Syrian refugee who recognized him We learned that he was in France. So we got in touch with victims Then we gave all this evidence According to Mukhtarsm, there are countless cases, During the war, a lot of Syrians Many of these guys took advantage of it. Today, they are disguised as something with fake passports. They try to disguise their past. However, To judge Islam Alush, the Syrian NGO is turning to the FIDH, the International Federation In June 2019, they both filed a complaint for kidnapping, torture, murder, Clemens Beckton is a lawyer at the FIDH. This morning, she accompanied a victim to the Palais de Justice in Paris. The judge in charge of the investigation Not to harm the ongoing proceedings, the young man It is important to know the vast majority still have family members who are in Syria and who are sometimes in areas where they can be victims It has already happened very recently, because they had agreed to testify and so it is a risk The victim's hearing The next day, to talk about the young Syrian man. He was very young and wanted to participate and was a double victim of the regime itself in the jails of the Syrian regime and also a victim of Jaish al-Islam, incarcerated in the prisons tortured there and in particular witnessed the detention who were between eight and 13 years. While awaiting his trial, Islam Alush refutes and pleads innocence. There remains a crucial question, however. How did the former spokesman arrive in France legally? In June 2019, he applied as a student on the Arab and Muslim World in Marseille. We were able to obtain &quot;I was very involved &quot;in the rural area around Damascus.&quot; &quot;After that, I graduated first in my class &quot;Today, &quot;with more &quot;I would be grateful &quot;next summer.&quot; The institute accepted him as a student. Their management claims Hard to believe, as a few months earlier, a British university due to his past, a past apparently known to all. Then why did the French authorities The answer may be in this article published in 2016, entitled: &quot;France supports the participation &quot;in the Geneva negotiations.&quot; A source in the French Foreign Ministry recently met with the representative He was convinced that Jaysh al-Islam of the Syrian opposition, which prescribe working to establish We contacted the Ministry and to understand why Islam Alush A short-stay visa was issued after questioning We refer you Both the Quai d'Orsay never answered our requests. Beyond the Alush case, how many former jihadists legally or otherwise? How many of them In Germany, we meet Tariq, This morning, he will take the risk who now runs a massage parlor. Are you not too afraid to do that? Yes, of course, but we are in Germany. That reduces the risk. But you can't trust him. He is still potentially dangerous, so you have to be ready It's a hidden camera... No question of going back. A short drive, and we arrive. The shop opens at 10:00 AM. It is 9:00 AM. While we wait for Majid's arrival, we begin by filming the neighbors Good morning, hello. We're a French television team May I ask a few questions? Have you ever seen clients Sometimes, but not often. I have the impression -Does the owner of the parlor live here? I don't know. We won't know more. A few minutes later, Majid arrives. This is the moment of truth. Tariq is also from Jarosol, like the suspect. There is a chance he could recognize him. Excuse me? I was told that there was a massage parlor -Yes, it's mine. -Give me a second to park my car. Okay. Finally, he's been hunting down Majid, whom the ISIS hunters accused and financial manager, -How are you? -Are you the masseur? Come in, you are welcome. Once we arrive at the massage parlor, The place is empty, barely decorated, and cold. The Klein folders There are few, inside the folders. The massage parlor could very well Do you practice cupping here? Yes, we specialize Okay, where did you learn this practice? During my studies. Here in Germany? Yes, I studied here, If he stays, revealing the hidden camera. Aware of the danger, -Do you want to book a meeting? Okay, good. Thank you very much. Yes, that's me. Goodbye. He talked to you, No, I don't think so. He was with a friend. I'm sure I know him, I think we must have met that's why he didn't recognize me. After this meeting, Tariq felt scared. He decided to stop his investigation. It's up to us to take cover. A few days later, back to the massage parlor, but no answer. We don't know Majid's address, -Hello. Doctor Majid? Yes, that's me. Here I am, I stayed in a hotel and I was suffering from spinal cramps. I saw the sign for the parlor, and I thought you could help me. Whatever questions I'm ready to answer the phone. To our great surprise, Majid quickly understood Was he warned? And by whom? Listen, we have information You were working for the Islamic State Who told you that? Several people and witnesses said that you were working for this group. These are lies. I left Syria in 2013, before the presence But you did not come alone to Germany. He had his leg cut off, -He fought for ISIS. What you're saying doesn't make sense. You're making it up. Majid doesn't know that we have this photo According to the ISIS hunters, It's been five years and if there were witnesses... or at least which proves it, These witnesses exist and are ready but to date, no investigation So you maintain that you did not transfer money and that your cousin I swear this is not true, Despite Majid's denial, seems conclusive We decided to talk but after exchanges by email and SMS, as well as two meetings nothing has progressed. Is Majid protected, We will not learn more. Today, in the eyes of German law, However, our investigation in Germany We now want to confront Samir, To minimize the risks, we will meet him in public closest to his apartment. We'll tell him right away I have a question. I've done some research, and I have information in Deir ez-Zor. No, that's what the police thought. Were you interrogated by the police? Yes, at my home. They asked me I told them I didn't know them. To our surprise, by the German police. It means that the Samir I don't know him, the police told me: &quot;We received a video &quot;and we think When they showed it to me, I told them clearly It's time to show him the video So he is not you? Of course not! -I don't know. -So he's not you? Once again, Yes, I'm sure! -Because I think it's the same face. If I wasn't innocent, The man denies everything That's strange. If you have information, and let's see. -Okay, thank you very much. We leave Samir perplexed. We called back the young man How are you? I'm fine, thank you, and how are you? I'm fine, thank you. In fact, -About Samir. I filmed Samir with a hidden camera, He's a big guy, isn't he? That's right, he's really tall. When he was 16 years old, even though I'm older. The young man has an opportunity Okay, he has a beard now, There's no doubt, even if he denies it. Are you really sure it's him? I am not going to accuse him wrongly. It's one million percent him! We're playing one final card: facial recognition software in many investigations. Comparing pictures of Samir in the past we receive results According to the designer of the software, if the number obtained is higher than 0.6, we can affirm that it is the same person. Most of our results are around 0.8, leaving less and less doubt. Despite all the evidence to date, Samir is not being subjected Before closing our investigation, the boss of the ISIS Hunters network. A week ago, he was sent a disturbing photo showing him playing in a park in Istanbul. Accompanied with the picture, &quot;To you, the heretical apostate &quot;we swear before God &quot;The lions and wolves of the Caliphate&quot; &quot;are eager to approach you &quot;As for this picture, I moved immediately after that threat. In fact, they went crazy about the woman for women under ISIS. Two days later, they sent me this. Worried about his family, The problem, as with Majid and Samir, is that our work rarely In general, your government sitting with Al Baghdadi. Otherwise, they don't consider it enough This is a real problem for us. I may run away to Europe soon. Maybe I will stop this job for a while... Who will dare to continue Ahmad's How many former jihadists will be tried? How many will remain free? One thing is certain. In Iraq and Syria, the terrorist organization and is multiplying its brutal attacks. The hunt is far from over.