Before we begin, I must confess. I did not want to go to the Usually, I'm excited. But this time, I was feeling awful. Probably, I ate something bad in the afternoon, so afterward, I wasn't sure I could eat anything. But, as they say, the show must go on. We are back in San Francisco. In part 4 of our 5-part series. Discovering the best 3 Michelin Today we will go to the neighborhood It stands for South of Market One of the main streets through the city. SoMa is huge. It's the home of the San the San Francisco Museum of Modern Benu. We start the day with a bit of sightseeing, with one iconic bridge. When it was completed in 1937, it was the spanning over one kilometer. it's still one of the most known for its bright orange color. Why not gold? Although it would be cool, They chose bright orange because The bridge gets its name which connects San Francisco Maintaining the iconic bridge is who constantly fix and paint sections of It's not a job for those scared of heights. The two towers supporting the bridge I think I will stick to fine dining. We finished the boat tour, and now we inside the Neiman Markus building. This rotunda was originally part of the City When it was torn down in 1972, the signature stained-glass ceiling Breath-taking, isn't it? Next, we make our way to Benu. From the street, we have a where the culinary team is Stepping inside, we receive a Getting seated, we have a high-quality I can't help but notice how disappointing I feel out of place here. I don't know what to expect, Maybe I should have stayed at the hotel. The only thing interesting to look Perhaps that's what they are going for. The wine list contains selections of mostly It covers a lot of bases, but not as well as some of the other Here, they have wine and sake by the glass, The menu is fixed and features a wide variety of Drinks start with a 2013 Schramsberg Noirs. It's a California sparkling wine from one of the oldest It's refreshing with notes of A second wine is right behind it. This is a 2021 Tatomer from Santa Barbara county. It's made from Gruner Veltliner First up on the menu, small delicacies. It starts with a special egg. It's a traditional Chinese dish And it has many names. The hundred-year-old egg, the century egg. The thousand-year-old egg and the millennium egg. But in fact, it's really only about 2 months old. It's a quail egg that has been They are rich in vitamins and minerals, with Here it's served in a ginger It's salty and a bit spicy, and quickly warms up my tastebuds. Next, a colorful presentation that It's a poached and marinated mussel Nice umami flavors and great textures. That's followed by an oyster in The flavors here were strong and satisfying. So far, so good. The next wine in the pairing is a 2019 This one is from the Alsace region, known for its German influence, and one of the Our next appetiser is river eel jerky It's presented on eel sauce and The soft eel goes nicely with Apps continue with a tartlet with beef tartare, A lot of flavors going on here, with umami and salt slightly My next wine is Amontillado La Cigarrera. It's a dry and nutty white wine from Appetisers keep coming. This is not a Michelin-worthy presentation. Just a bowl of Korean red peppers. But under them, is a surprise. Breaded and deep-fried frog legs. Seasoned with garlic and basil. No doubt, one or two of you are totally This dish is a French delicacy for a reason. It's damn good. But you need a skilled chef to pull it off. A Michelin restaurant like this What do they taste like? They have a delicate, mild flavor that is The texture is unique. Tender and slightly chewy, but the Next is called From the Oak. It's acorn, black truffle and iberico The next wine is a burgundy white. This is a 2020 chardonnay Dry, slightly bold and acidic. Finishing the appetisers is shaved bamboo shoots, wild bamboo fungi and fava beans in a consumme. It's super light, casual, cool and refreshing. Elegant and harmonious flavors. They manage to do it without salt and heat and create a fantastic dish with this one. So far, we have seen both expert-level It highlights both the His name is Corey Lee. Born in Seoul, South Korea, in 1977. He moved to the U.S. with his At age 17, he began his career Then, he went on to work at fine dining The Restaurant Marco Pierre White, Guy Savoy, Daniel, and Lespinasse. In 2001, he started a nine-year at iconic French Laundry. During that time, he spent a year returning to The French Laundry as head chef. In 2010, with the blessing and investment The name is Egyptian and means 'phoenix' It had people talking right away in its first year of operations. It received its third Michelin Star in 2014. So we have a Korean-born chef. Trained by some of the best In a restaurant with an Egyptian name. How is this going to impact the menu? I guess we will find out. At the end of the appetizers, I can say The service is excellent too. But the interior still has me guessing. We interrupt this episode to Exciting new episodes with places If you haven't hit that subscribe button, And thank you for your support. As we transition to the main courses, we are It's warm and fresh with a crispy crust. The next drink in the pairing A dark Belgian ale from producer Verhaeghe. It goes with our first course. Inside the dumplings is "supreme dried scallops, and two kinds of ham. One from Spain and one from the US. I heard that at one time, the filling But not anymore. Why? Because now it's against the law. In 2004, animal rights activists lobbied the The reason? It all comes down to how they make it. To make foie gras, geese and ducks are This process is called gavage and it This didn't sit well with activists, The court agreed. Players in the industry fought The law states that foie-gras nor can it be served in restaurants. Today, you can still get foie-gras in California, but it must come from out of state This dish is still great with a lovely The next drink is a sake from Japan. The following dish comes in two parts along with a special rice from First is halibut seasoned with The second is a classic Korean salad and seaweed paper. This allows us to make A common thing in Korean barbeque restaurants. The fish is perfect and has My next wine is a real surprise. It's a 2021 Provence rose. I have never seen this wine anywhere except in It's a great rose. Elegant and full, fresh and exciting. Coming up is another Korean fusion dish. This is local sablefish cooked "jeon"-style. Jeon is a fritter in Korean cuisine made and coating them with wheat flour and Very nice delicate flavors More wine. This is a 2011 Spanish red from the Rioja It's perfect for the main course. Quail. It's barbecued along with It comes with black trumpet and a steamed homemade dumpling Beautiful dish. One more wine to go with the last savory dish. It's a 2021 Pinot noir from the Marsonnay It's paired with beef, simmered 'jorim' style. Jorim dishes are made by short braising and then simmering the main ingredient in a The meat is incredibly tender and nicely marbled. But for me, the spotlight goes to the vegetables Their fermentation skills shine on this one. Excellent dish. The savory courses are over, and It's exactly what I need right now. The flavors include hwachae, a Korean plus a Korean superfruit called omija. The name means 'five flavor berry' and it has It has been used in Korean medicinal tea for ages, but recently has made a come I can't speak on those, but My final drink of the evening is It is fruity and fresh and it's served Here we have a gooseberry dipped in a grain sandwich with and finally a milk pudding infused All were interesting and showed me something new. Before we go, we are treated with a pine needle broth This thing shatters with a light touch. It was like paper Mentos and it leaving our breath minty fresh. On the way out, we pass by a pillar where they make soy sauce the old fashioned way. And that is going to do it for Benu. What can I say? I made it through, and now I feel better. Actually, I'm glad I didn't like the interior because it made the contrast with They work with freedom, passion, and joy and fill this place with wonderful energy. It's like when a violin plays in perfect silence, filling the space with its sound. Plus, And I got to taste some a chef with an outstanding track record. Walking in, my expectations were low. But like a phoenix, this place Even if the interior doesn't shine, And that does it for this episode. Don't miss the next and final where we visit The iconic French Laundry. Stay tuned! You don't want to miss it!