Yatai Daruma Kure Park food stall (Staff) How many kilograms are in the stall? I like the flat roads, but there are some hills that are tough for one person. I have a knack for it. Start of stall assembly 2 hours for preparation Cleaning up after closing takes a whopping 3 hours! His wife comes to help him on weekends, but Assembly, preparation, cooking, customer service, cleanup All done by one person Daruma's stall is One item I asked a carpenter to make for me Building shelves luggage storage Install faucet A street of food stalls with electricity, water and sewage systems, a rarity in the country. Conducting electricity Storage baskets and boards Stove installation Taking the cooler box out of the car Oden preparation Add soup stock. I'm going to add more and adjust it according to the amount of oden. (Preparing food stalls) It's faster to open them. I'm the first. Started at 31. There's a Hakki (food stall) over there. Three of us did it. I've always wanted to do a food stall. It's like there was a call for applications and you (Staff) You're a family of food carts. Only my people are here. What is the difference between a store and a food stall? I can do it if I have the money and the store. For a food stall, the timing you want to do and If the timing of the recruitment is not right It's easy to be physically comfortable in a store, but it's hard to be financially comfortable. In the case of food stalls, it's easy financially, but it's hard physically. It comes down to whether you want the body or the money. I took the stall. Preparation of glass I've been helping out at a food truck since I was 16. Another 30 years You can use Yaqi (name) in a store, but I made a &quot;daruma&quot; out of seven falls and eight rises. I have to stay overnight. If you stay in Kure, you might want to go to a food stall. thereabouts gas preparation of green onion Preparing wonton seeds Preparation of Yakitori Pre-cooking grilled chicken Popular Oden dishes are Daikon radish, Eggs, Susin meat Shumai and enoki are rare. The most popular is Ramen. Daikon radish preparation If it's potatoes, they'll fall apart. It's not nice to be told that something that is commercially available It's important to sell well. It's worth all the hard work you put into it. It's nice to be told, isn't it? Preparation of sinewy meat Preparation of KINCHAKU Preparation of chashu pork Wrapping a string around a boil to prevent it from falling apart This is for the next day I'm going to boil the water for about 40 minutes and dip it in soy sauce. Cutting chashu pork prepared the day before Oden 100yen- 18:30 opening Daruma Ramen 550yen Beer 650 yen Coke 300 yen I ordered the popular ramen! Bean sprouts, chashu pork Ramen 550yen Simple, light ramen Soy sauce based, clear and Straight thin noodles with firmness Two pieces of soft chashu pork Oden Oden with soup stock Eggs in the color of soup stock sinewy meat Eat with mustard Also ordered pig's feet! Pig's feet 700 yen Crispy skin, delicious with salt and pepper Welcome! Regulars Eggs, Atsuage, Sinewy meat Draft beer for now Sip and sip Eggs, Atsuage 100 yen Sailor's guest I feel like I'm going to be here all the time when I get back. If I say I'll come, I'll come every day. That's a long time. I'm a good cook. I love the general's humanity. Making Yakitori Grilled with salt and pepper End of the workday. Looks delicious! What should I make? kinchaku, sausage, radish, konnyaku radish 2, cabbage roll 2, konnyaku string 1 I'll take it! Daikon radish, Ito konnyaku The taste is intense! I'm so tired from work. (Staff) Do you go to food stalls? We often go here together. The first time the three of us could come together. I knew this was the only place to go. Yakitori (3 pcs.) 400 yen Cheers! After work, a beer at a street stall is a special treat... Thank you very much! 3 guests visit It's either here or 123 already. Flattened tempura, egg, sinewy meat Fried bean curd, sausage Ordering Ramen Lightly delicious! Thank you for the food! This is what I like about Kure. Thank you very much! (Shopkeeper) Thanks. Tomorrow. (Owner) I'm off tomorrow. 5 people came to the store Three ramen orders come in. Ramen 550yen Yum! This is not good. Oden Daikon radish looks delicious! Wow, it's stained. I'm done drinking today. It's delicious, isn't it? It's unique to Kure Everyone is happy and having fun! 3 people come to the restaurant After work, I went to a hot spring It's old-fashioned and rustic. Japanese hackberry (Celtis sinensis var. japonica) Hearty owner and hearty food with a human touch. I couldn't help but notice the nostalgic atmosphere. You'll want to go through the goodwill Building a Framework from the Ground Up Building a food stall in 2 hours Because all they have are ramen and oden stalls. Poof! Something different from the stalls we've had in the past. There's a desire to increase the number. This is soy sauce. Delicious! Ah~ Tail mellow Delicious I can't get enough of the trotter tail... Unusual stall like a house Ahhhh, yum! I can feel the taste of a great tail. Delicious! Delicious! Delicious! It's so easy! Yaki Onigiri Chazuke 220yen Finish off the meal with a cup of grilled rice ball chazuke (rice cake) (Guest) Thank you for the food. Kure City, Hiroshima Prefecture 14 minutes walk northeast from Kure Station Kuramoto Street lined with food stalls General of Tail Ramen Huachi Start of stall assembly Build a Pillar. Measuring the equilibrium position with a downward swing Conducting electricity The street is equipped with electricity and Fitting a foundation into a mold Installing the outer wall Installing sliding doors Attachment of support columns Installing a roof Gas water heater installed Installation of hot water hose Installing lighting Did you invent the menu yourself? Yes, but... We've been doing this menu for a long time. This is the first part of the menu This is beef tongue. I started out in a beef tongue restaurant. Remnants of these days That's why (on the storefront curtain) that's what I mean (Su) What is your name, Hua Ji? I just put Chinese flower and one character of my name (Ji). Preparation of tableware Beer Server Installation Alcoholic Beverages Offered A drink called Pinga Add lemon and sugar to make a cocktail It's called caipirinha. soy sauce You've been in business for over 20 years now. (Started a food stall at) I didn't think I'd be doing this for this long. I was told that they were going to have an open call for stalls. Why did you apply? All I see are ramen and oden stalls. We need to get something else out of it. I can't get them to choose from the public. Poof! Something different from the stalls we've had before. There's a desire to increase the number. That's how I did it. If you start doing it, it's a failure. Heavy and first I've already quit this place. There's a lot of variety in the look and the shape of the thing. Put out about 8 houses. It's like only 3 houses left. What was the tail ramen? If you go to Sendai A meal of grilled beef tongue, barley rice, and tail soup. It's like one set. I was thinking maybe tail soup for beef tongue. I said, &quot;It's a food stall, so let's have ramen. When you start doing I've been doing this a long time, you know what I mean? It's hard work, this job. Speaking of ramen ingredients, aren't they bones? Chicken bones and stuff. Cost is low, isn't it? And the tail is high. The soup itself doesn't last long. People from other places say that the tap water in Hiroshima This is called &quot;heaping chopsticks. Chopsticks for serving It's really used by Japanese food people. Make your own storage case (S) Are you a businessman in front of a food stall? so and so (S) You left your job and opened a food stall? Yeah, yeah, yeah... When Carp is stronger In two hours, he built a stall that looked like a shack. 18:30 opening Established in 2002 Total 7 seats Tail ramen (soy sauce) 880 yen Gansu 440 yen Ikaishumai 660 yen Draft beer 550yen Order tail ramen Cook the tail Two tails menma white onion Fried onions Black Pepper Here you go. Tail ramen (soy sauce) 880 yen Light soy sauce based soup Fried onions and coarsely ground black pepper Two pieces of tender tail meat Straight thin noodles that mix well with soup Yaki Onigiri Chazuke Order Yaki Onigiri Chazuke 220yen Put the leftover soup from tail ramen into the soup The crispy texture of grilled onigiri soaked in soup is Finished in the blink of an eye! Thank you very much. I'm from Wakayama on a trip. What is cancerous? (Owner) It's a paste, but it's fried like a fry. One cancer and one tail ramen Mugi nikado with water Umeshu (Japanese plum wine) Customers arrive one after another Ginger ale. Nikaido: Water and (Customer) a hearty welcome Raw is this way. Oolong tea. (Customer) kanpai Making a Cancer Gansu 440 yen This is a cancer, isn't it? Please continue as you are. Shochu goes well with Gansu... Making Treasure Tomato and Avocado Salad Cute! Treasure Tomato and Avocado Salad 660 yen Wow great! Tail Ramen Delicious tomatoes, right? Delicious I'm a little full right now. Yes, ma'am. Soy sauce and salt. I'll give you a plate. Thank you. The first taste or It's easy. How about soup? You're gentle but firm. This is soy sauce. Tail ramen (soy sauce) Tail salt ramen Comparison of salt and soy sauce soups (Salt) awesome light salt Delicious (S) Which do you prefer? I like this one better. I'm over here. I love these thin noodles. (Guest) Thank you for the food. Thank you very much. (Guest) Good-bye! Thank you - I'll be sure to check it out! It's very tasty. Thank you very much. Please come again Of course, I'm rarely free.... Thank you very much. 5 people visited Two salts 3 tail ramen soy sauce I want to eat onigiri It says to put it in after the ramen. Ramen noodle soup for ochazuke Okay, I'll have two grilled onigiri chazuke. yes 3 tail ramen I can suck it. Yay! It's my first time at the Wu stall. Being able to watch the food being cooked up close is one of the best things about being in a food stall. Call to confirm your seat Yes, we are waiting for you. Yes, I am very sorry for the delay! Thank you for waiting. (Customer) Shall we eat? Here you go. (Customer) Wow, looks delicious! Yes, salt. (Customer) Bon appetit! If you're an oatmeal guy, let me know when it's just soup. Horse It's salt. Want to try some? Let's try some of this. Comparison of Tail Ramen and Shio Ramen Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh It's so good! Delicious! 3 refills Replacement ball here? Yes. Here you go. I can eat in silence forever. After the refill (Yaki Onigiri) Because it's two per person. I don't mind if you split it with me. I'll do that specially for you. (Customer) Yay! (Guest) I love the word &quot;special&quot;! Then limited period Here you go. Thank you very much. Here you go. Thank you very much. Thanks. Mellow and full-bodied. Delicious Drink up the soup for a satisfying finish. 1 person came to the store Total: 5,170 yen Thanks for the food! 3 men and 3 women come to the store Yes, I'll clean it up. 21:00 Tail Ramen Soy Sauce One is kata noodle and one is soft noodle. In plain language I've been selfish before. Here you go. Soup is sinking into my tired body... A cup of bliss with the deliciousness of the tail blended in. (Customer) Can we have 4 people? I'm going to have to ask you to wait a moment. (Customer) If you do that, I'll eat outside. It's okay. (Guest) There's no table. (Shopkeeper) No. (Customer) I'll come back later. This is hard soy sauce. Softness Salt. Thank you very much. Thank you for the food Light and (S) Would you like some meat? delicious I think even women can eat it. Delicious! Order a refill (Guest) Thank you for the food. Thank you very much. Rare rear car food stall run by a family of three Sold out! Puripuri Pork Leg Pork ear Oden cosmetics: 100 yen Delicious! Very popular! Chinese Soba Noodles Chinese noodles soak into a cold night... To the main story Kure City, Hiroshima Prefecture 14 min. walk northeast from Kure Station stall location Toshihomi Kawamata, owner of the store Arrive at Kuramoto Street OK. Ai Raise it again. Put it down. Here we go. Mother and father arrive A family of three assembles a food cart. Toshiki Yamaguchi, 84 years old Running water and electricity Installing a faucet Sink set up Too hot today. It was a little hard at first. It's still hard, but we're going with the flow. Radio set up Putting up a lantern 84 years old We like pig's feet. Three people work together to complete a food stall Draft beer chilled to a crisp Oden preparation radish Potatoes thick fried tofu konjac Oden 100 yen and up Tonkotsu (pork bone) ramen (Staff) How old is your mother now? DX! (Staff) Your sister... From 3 years ago My parents are getting old. (I said I wouldn't do it. In case you're wondering, it's still the same age. We are famous for pig's feet and pig's ears. In winter, it's all about the daikon radish. radish I asked the owner of &quot;Kasa,&quot; the head of the Kure City food cart association I thought we were going to do 50 years. The only one of its kind now. I wonder if rear cars themselves There must be only one or two places in all of Japan The eggs are hard to peel. When you boil them from there When the water is boiling konjac I retired. I got sick. I had to leave again. I had a fight with my grandpa. I have a bad heart. I had a teacher who told me not to do it. (Staff) How do you like it? Yeah, fun is fun. I've been sick, but when I come here We have a lot of regulars. He's going to help me. Vegetables take time, don't they? green onion (edible plant, Allium cepa L.) Mama's Volleyball My hands are not doing what I want them to do. Preparation of green onion is completed. Valentine's Day Chocolates I made it. (Chocolate) This is delicious! It's good, isn't it... (Staff) How long have you been using this rear car? We're going to be around for 50 years. And they took over somebody else's stall. I'm fixing that and using it. The roof has been redone many times I don't think I'll ever be able to make a food cart that lasts this long again. Customers arrive before the store opens. Open at 18:30 (opening hours are irregular) Established 1976 9 seats at the counter Chairs outside Chinese noodles 600yen Oden (radish) 120 yen Two men and a woman came to the store Here you go. Giving chocolate to customers as well. Two grandmothers come to the store Other stalls open for business Order Oden Thank you. Konnyaku, flattened tempura, egg, potato Do you have pig's feet? Yes, there is. We eat pig's feet too. Pig ears first Order Sake Here you go. Potato, egg, string konnyaku Here you go. Making pig ears Negi (Japanese word meaning &quot;root&quot;) Pig ears completed What do you do with Oden? Yes, yes, yes... hot-water splitting Hot water. hot water ratio Making pig's feet When most of them come, your mother will have pig's feet. Additional order for flattened tempura and konnyaku Go ahead. Pig's feet roasted Yes. Sorry. Aiyo yo. Here you go. Please give me a drink. Crazily bite into a pig's foot. Warm sake is ready! Sake and pig's feet welcome! A man comes to the store by himself. First, moisten your mouth with alcohol Order eggs, chikuwa Sake and oden go great together... Here you go. Making Chinese noodles Green onion, menma, chashu pork, bean sprouts Good boy. - Good boy. The ramen noodles at the end of the day is very good for you... A place to take a breather 4 new customers have visited the store Konnyaku, Ito Konnyaku, Potato Add mustard to taste Order pig's ear Pig ears completed I can't stand the crunchy texture of pig ears... All kinds of Oden I said all kinds of oden the other day. Here you go. all types of priority I'm hungry, aren't you? Oden all on top good luck! (Staff) Do you have any recommendations? Pig's feet, pig's ears Go ahead~ Delicious. If you're early I used to eat a lot of food. I ate about 5 pieces of fried bean curd That was a long time ago. KANPAI! 19:44 I'll do pig's feet and pig's ears all the time. Here you go. I'll take that. Yes. 19:48 Thanks for the food. Thank you! This is a drinking glass. Kinchaku, Fried bean curd Add thick fried bean curd The thick fried bean curd is only 100 yen! The thick fried bean curd which absorbed a lot of oden soup stock is delicious! Three men come to the store Negi (Japanese word meaning &quot;root&quot;) Chashu pork, bean sprouts, menma 3 servings of Chinese noodles completed Ramen noodles in the cold is very special... Two men and two women came to the store. Yes, good work, sir. Yum. Yum. Yum. I come here often. My colleague likes the pig's feet here. I come 3-4 times a week. I asked them to put it on hold for me. Order pig's feet Pig's feet (Ton-ashi) 700 yen Plump, juicy and delicious! It goes well with beer! Delicious! Make Chinese noodles Chinese noodles 600yen The chashu pork is delicious! Straight noodle with excellent thirst-quenching effect Here you go, sir. Yes, thank you. Pig's feet arrive Dusty food eaten outside is too good... Delicious! When I come to Kure for a drink Order daikon radish, egg, and deep-fried tofu. Oden: radish 120 yen Eggs soaked in soup stock Thick daikon radish is very satisfying! Nostalgic taste that makes you want to go back I come here about once every two weeks. The ramen here is good! This place is good. A homey, family-like atmosphere We closely followed the nighttime food cart business. Hiroshima, Japan Chinese Soba Tsubame since 1982 The third generation mother is preparing the food from 7:00 a.m. The third generation owner makes char siu pork. A day in the life of a family owned Chinese noodle shop in Hiroshima. Chuka-soba Tsubame began as a food cart. The famous oden is still made with the dashi broth passed down from generation to generation. Daikon radish for oden. Purchased at a vegetable market. The owner's wife. Eggs, daikon radish, and thick fried tofu are popular ingredients. Onigiri shop. I can't make oden at home in the summer. So many to-go orders. Some people eat here. Some of us were thinking of making oden at home, and here we are. We eat breakfast together every day. 2nd owner. Custom-made Chinese noodles. Pork bone soup prepared the day before. Mysterious food stall where two stalls merge into one! Oden made with Japanese Wagyu beef is excellent! Cheers! Japanese style ramen with dashi broth is very popular! A close-up look at Hiroshima's food stalls full of humanity Kure City, Hiroshima Prefecture Kuramoto Street lined with food stalls Craftsmen at the stalls begin preparations. Morikawa, owner (50 yrs. old) goes to work. Good morning. I'm going to get a food stall. Transporting a refrigerator Two more round trips Setting up a food stall Fixed Conducting electricity Carrying stalls again muscle training Want something to drink? I have some cold ones. (Staff) Since it's warm Is it warm? Thank you for the offer! Good morning (The stalls got old, so we redid them at Corona. So the stalls are clean, right? This is the second generation. 21 years ago. Ask me to make it in the image of Shanghai in 2040. I got one hell of a modern one. The normal stalls are U-shaped, right? You've been facing each other all along... There are many drunks in the stalls. You're not a good person to get tangled up with, are you? Assembly of other stalls is in progress... Go shopping by bicycle Back from the shopping trip. This is oden suji A3 to A5 Japanese Wagyu beef, so it's no wonder it's so expensive. That's all the butchers carry. remove lye I'm going to cook it sweet and spicy. I season it every time. Seasoning My parents opened a coffee shop called &quot;Mexico&quot;. And just made it to Mexico. The streak is complete. Oden Putting new ingredients in the bottom of the pot Add seasoned ingredients Oden soup stock is the best Oden completed Cold weather (Staff) Why did the Wu stalls stay? A dockworker's town. Well, to put it bluntly Without the ombrato, well, you'd have to watch &quot;Battle Without Honor and Humanity&quot; to understand. The locals are like, &quot;What's so unusual about this? What's so unusual about a submarine floating around the city It's normal, isn't it? Even if there are a lot of painted brothers It's just a normal town. Going out to buy kerosene Other stalls open gradually Warm inside with stove. There was talk of adding more food stalls. I applied at that time I thought it would be fun. Over 50 years ago. So I was familiar with it. I started a stall when I was 28. Food stalls don't work very well... Close down the bar and work on your own food stall. I'm lucky if I can sleep for 3 hours. I was a dumpling vendor at the time. Preparation for opening 19:00 opening Founded 2002 Front entrance is counter seating Enter through the vinyl seats on the side. Black pepper and chili pepper + sesame Japanese-style ramen 600 yen Sinewy 500 yen Beer 500yen Three men and a woman come to the store. Yes, good work! Oh, that's good! seafood and vegetable stew tofu Menu changes partially depending on the day. The guests are My son... 19 years old. Aren't you young? W! The manager doesn't look 50 either. I was shown the first stall. It's fun. It's fun. It's fun. Two women come to the store Making 5 servings of Japanese style ramen Making Ramen Soup Kaigaiware, Tenkasu bean sprouts Cheers! Ramen noodles washed down with beer... It's so delicious! Japanese taste. Yum! 3 people eat Japanese-style ramen in silence The sweet taste when you eat it is really delicious 4 new men and 4 new women have come to the store. Order a drink Make a drink KANPAI! Ah! I'm crazy about it and eat it up. Delicious This is bad. Thank you very much. It was delicious! It was delicious! Oden order mustard for the number of people Oden came! This this this! I'm cutting all of that into bite-size pieces. It's properly divided into four equal parts. The care to divide it into 4 equal parts is warm. Suji-zushi 500 yen Eggs 150 yen Oden with Kombu Dashi no Shimiimi A3 to A5 Japanese Wagyu Beef Sinew The fat is sweet and the meat is unbearably delicious... Moist daikon radish Preparing radishes while serving customers When I boiled the noodles... It's easy to get into the flavor later. Order Sake Order another drink Thank you very much. It's delicious! It's the best! Kure's food stalls where customers interact with each other I'll take it. Cheers! Yum! This is it. 21:17 A new customer comes to the store in a flash. Konnyaku, jakoten, egg Mustard and Yuzu Kosho for number of people Warm deep-fried tofu soaked in soup stock is delicious... The plump egg goes well with beer! Thank you very much. Sorry. I had a great time. Thanks for your hard work Cheers to the six of us! Making 6 servings of Japanese style ramen at once Japanese-style ramen for 6 people is completed. It's hot, so I'll take it. It's fun to eat with everyone! Delicious! Japanese Ramen 600yen Dashi broth with the taste of kombu (kelp) Fragrant stir-fried pork and bean sprouts. Noodles that are smooth and slurpable. You've mixed pepper and a dash of flavor. Light ramen noodles, perfect for the end of the day. A homey food stall where the people of Kure gather.