This is my second video regarding the spiritual at the church Dwelling Place Anaheim. Today different staff meetings that I think help exists at this church. 2. The systemic pattern of How this plays out in real-time with real people and as well as all the necessary receipts because system of spiritual abuse. If you don't know drummer for a while as he is a well-known worship Pastor at Dwelling Place Anaheim. Alan Scott is the former founding pastor of Causeway Coast his former church and denomination hired Trusted his nearly two decades at the church. &quot;Following have identified themes and repeated patterns inappropriate comments, narcissistic behavior, spiritual abuse. The allegations primarily relate did not respond. Now, if my intentions in my first clarify that. First of all, I am wanting to raise These guys are powerful and they have influence Christians and Christian leaders. And in addition spiritual abuse is and how it affects people. Now, were recorded within the bounds of the laws of that Alan Scott told the staff that it was in these meetings. You might not hear Jeremy in But he is in the room both as a high-ranking staff member to be using passages from this book &quot;Escaping and Justin Humphreys. So with that in mind, let's atmosphere at this church. We begin with Alan Scott be treated by their volunteer leaders if they [Alan Scott] &quot;I know it must have been pleasant in your cost the whole community. That's unacceptable go back to a level... Either we need to reduce the Because you told us you could when we... You So forget sleeping in. What if the night before you're supposed to serve and you cancel late once in a term, it's forgiven. That's okay. You're off the team.&quot; So if this is how Alan wants treats the staff. &quot;The [olypmic] coach! That's what I was about to say, It shows you a little clip before that of him with her (his athlete) This guy is in her face. he was like... of a bad cop around here. Don't take it personally. And if you showing you that you carry offense, easily. And deal with it. Deal with it quickly. Don't take it personally. Realize you're getting called to lead. You're getting called to lead.&quot; coach getting in an athlete's face. And then saying he's just calling them to lead. If that's the case, having trouble doing what he's asking of them? if this is and this again is not adversarial, okay. So forgive the language here. And I will be less merciful in three months than And it almost sounds like Alan has this grin if you've noticed this yet, but a feature of the Gaslighting is a manipulation tactic intended to what they're feeling or experiencing. It's see later it's something that Jeremy employs You heard it yourself. Alan says &quot;I'm not being be completely adversarial and threatens them. have heard of if you read the initial Roy's Report body types. He doesn't hire &quot;3's&quot;, which skinnier lower body. Now in response to this claim, Roy's Report that reads: &quot;I understand people it's just not true&quot;. But whether they own mouth. &quot;My thing around here right now 3's. It's the guy [name] who just arrived [person] from [place]. I The 'players'. are coming. I know he is the right person. He's a 3. He's but they often have an agenda under the surface. an awareness of that is going to really help type thing, it's just saying your body posture you've behaved throughout life and is the best This is inhumane and objectifying towards real guys this is a church! And I don't know if you you who missed that body type thing,&quot; which implies And to be honest with you guys, my beautiful And we have it on good authority that Alan did say minuscule part of my wife's story and how she was of that is the crushing atmosphere that exists whole thing is the systemic pattern of spiritual And the first step to this systemic pattern is or not. And I mentioned in my first video how So let's compare these two different audios Cris you connected with them a little bit, And their hearts just like.. for once.. Before [Covid 19] it was you maybe carry a little bit of the culture survive.. to come in during Covid and to it's in you, you know? So I think that's what I'm we're actually looking for in the people that oh, there would be a place for them to Compare that to this... &quot;For me I probably have a bit of an unfair people. They're, you know, coming. And we you know, sitting in you know in your church, you You know you got [person 2]. You have all these like worship because my hangup, my challenge is like I see them coming... I wish I saw more like you see [Alan]. But I them actually ever becoming, like, of any real And so it's almost disheartening for me year!', you know? Or maybe not. But I can't help and how far I've had to come in three you know, that culture. That thing that happened in they're actually... they can actually export the do we create environments of health? I could grow So, if you have this culture in you and you share in place for you somewhere. But if you don't have this to be fixed. Let's look at a helpful passage abuse, behaving the same and believing the same can determine if they really belong&quot;. Now, you may be this culture in you or not?&quot; &quot;Alan, what do you do when you kind of broken journeys, broken roads. You know a obviously functioned in it before, but they're just is, not like protocol, but how would you navigate in who have a strong track record of leadership, heart of things because you don't want their &quot;Give them a challenge that just shows that never be afraid to test them. You know that's... that's leaders... One, leaders like it. Two, it's part of their core responsibility to do a test. But that's what we do Jer&quot; [Jeremy]: &quot;Sure.&quot; In short, they test you. And I think tested doesn't know they're being tested. They're their tests that means they got the culture &quot;Sometimes on a Sunday you'll hear me go after &quot;Have you noticed this?&quot;....&quot;Newsflash!&quot; &quot;And in that moment, I am trying to kinda create a culture and now that I can spend a little bit of that equity This audio has Alan saying the quiet part out loud. don't have the culture or if they didn't pass you real quick. &quot;To remove what we don't want to see. equity to create culture. [I'm] not saying that's the leaders do. So you take your equity and you say 'I'm the culture a little bit. [And] put that mindset in a to ostracize some people. And that's not our goal. what I mentioned earlier with gaslighting. Alan people out, but I'm not trying to intentionally pushing people out is this good thing that the culture for the church's benefit. And here's from Katie Riddle, who pastors prayer alongside Or a form they fill in [to volunteer], or?&quot; &quot;We [Jeremy and Katie] are figuring that out. [Laughs] I feel like prayer trying to get people in, all we've been doing is that want to come in but because of the nature So that is the systemic pattern of spiritual abuse that have their culture and if you don't pass And trust me guys, they do this under the nicest like 'this is what God wants for your life'. So, now hopefully, you'll be able to see how Jeremy ran me the curb. On February 18th, 2021, my wife and I sit a whole story in and of itself. But at the end of the air. He says, &quot;Noah, what would it look like if we the church?&quot; This was at the end of the meeting, you know, let's have a part two conversation promises or anything, but let's have a part two nine. It was the first time I can remember at the he was inviting me into the Inner Circle or the infamous lunch that I mentioned in my first recording of Jeremy talking about this very lunch. I want to show you this screenshot of a text I is indeed the part two conversation, because things place at our apartment and from the moment we sat lecture on revival. He was just telling story after here and then it sparked this one over here and for like 45 minutes straight. By the time Jeremy they had a meeting or something that they had to they hit the road and I'm kind of just sitting what felt like the first time all afternoon, and he asked And we've never really talked about DeBoltDrumming stuff, me and Jeremy, So I was kind of like excited to tell him what I've been up to. Like, 'I love giving them tips and I love helping them And he hears all this, like I said in my &quot;Hmm. Maybe you should think about being a Levite in was the part two meeting I guess? And I remember about the DeBoltDrumming at the church stuff?!' to Jeremy's version of this event. &quot;Ahh is this the way you know, them stepping out of Because they're not cause-driven, they're community-driven. And I'm like 'Mr. Cause', you know? So I'm like, &quot;just...can't...how could you not see, you know, the power of that [cause]?&quot; I remember we had a lunch. And I remember going after that lunch and I'm shared my greatest cause, and there's like, nothing love people.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;So interesting!&quot; tested. And like, I failed the test. I even just wanted to love on worship drummers, it was like him. Not long after that, the beginning of our exit to feel really alarming and concerning to me. And expressing those concerns both to Jeremy and Katie, And not long after that, Jeremy asked us to step &quot;I just felt it's wise for you guys to not umm... be in any kind of We heard this, and know, Jeremy was saying it was the 'wise' thing to do. But, I was proud of us because we did say this one thing in response. &quot;At first when we heard that, Like, if anything, we were like, 'We don't want to So initially when we heard like &quot;taking a step back&quot; We clearly stated that we were beginning to feel isolated. Or Let's listen to Jeremy's response. &quot;And of course for you guys to process in community. No one's getting kicked to This is some subtle gaslighting that Jeremy's doing to us. We're saying, of isolated by this.' And he's saying, 'No, that's not in fact, that's exactly what was happening. Here, &quot;The victim's decision not to do everything a time of isolation and loneliness. They would their ministry. Certainly dropped from friendship. Circle&quot;. Their lot was to be cast aside. They had So now, a few weeks later we had a meeting with concerned with Alan's sermons. Jeremy's response to my concern was immediate I'm talking about, I'm too young to know this I have. This is when Katie chimes in and says that, not be questioned.&quot; And then Katie says something are planted in the wrong soil?&quot; To be clear up until We were having these conversations because we comfortable at the church. Like this church was about soil, it was like she was saying in the But, let's be clear about what Katie really Or let me phrase it in a way that Katie so helpfully helps me We felt like And so, we had really no other option but to leave. got worse and worse. Jeremy asked us how we wanted And the only thing we asked, was that we would But, Jeremy went ahead and shared for us without still have no clue, to this day, what he said. And church. We had so many people coming up to us, What a cool adventure we're about to go on. Jeremy's parting words to me was that 'everything because I will no longer be under his spiritual I wouldn't use any more drum cams with him Like, who says that 'everything you do with your Here's money. I'm being so generous to you.' heads. And we thanked them for this. We thanked Like, I lost trust in my ability to perceive at my journal from the day that I met with drummer. &quot;Starting to process what just happened. So and guidance Lord. No red flags have come up Wise, funny, and listens. I got more comfortable Until it didn't. Because the honeymoon was over. And when you're in it. It's so subtle and under the dandy until it doesn't. So where are things at immediately pivoted his whole sermon series to And he seemingly denies everything. And also, has persecuted by us. For Jeremy, he's turned off all like nothing is happening. He's still posting like like normal. He actually played this event words were really interesting. And I thought that they And I feel there are many, many in the church... Many estranged they are from God. In their longing, [Or] If it was offered to them. If someone in the pulpit you can return.&quot; The gift of repentance [and] how much it needs a repentance. It says &quot;Repent! [So] that times of The preparation that we are longing for, that we I'm not saying it's the only message, but it is a If only he would take his own advice. Thank you for your support. Let's hold these leaders accountable. P.S. You can download the full-length audio recordings I used in this video in the description below or at the link in my bio.