Um... Right so... So at the moment um... I'm... Um... I am... I am... Um... We're going out... Where are we going? Oh can you stop that. I can't remember what I Alzheimers is an invisible, um... An invisiable, oh, horror even! I've got all this in my head I just can't get it out. Oh... It's really hard. And I know what I want to say Mum has been diagnosed a year ago at the age of 55, going on 56. At the moment we're just trying It's a guessing game. I really want to know how Is it just random that people You've been through a lot, you've lost Some people have Mixed with the upbringing of with two children, who one He who shall not be named. It's caused by trauma throughout With things chipping away, chipping You've come a long way since then, You became legal executive and all these things Sue: Yeah all those conferences That was my graduation. Adam: What did you Sue: It was law. Everyone thinks Alzheimers but your personality is just and that's the thing Ten years ago, even two years ago - She was happy, bubbly and And now she's this person Everywhere she goes she just And you just have to sit there and look at It's pretty awful. Adam: Do you remember all Sue: Yeah I do. Adam: (knocks) Mum? Yeah? You've been in there for quite a while, Okay, I'm with the crew. Adam: They need to get your reaction Oh. So, I'll knock on the door And you'll stand there and be Director: Rolling... Adam: (knocks) mum? Oh! You've been in there a while, can Sue: Are you talking really? Oh stop it! Adam: No it's good, they need Oh. Director: Try that again. Adam: (knocks) mum? Can I jump in the shower, you've been Adam: You're not supposed Adam: (knocks) Mum? Sue: What? Adam: You've been quite a while, Sue: What now? Adam: Is that alright? Sue: Yeah I think so. Oh my god! (Laughs) Adam: We will get there. Sue: Oh my god! Sue: No I can do it. Give me one more chance. Adam: One more chance? Sue: (Laughs) I know, come on. Adam: So brushing your hair. Ok. I just feel...what do I just feel? Um... I'm trapped really sometimes. I can't do this or that, people saying Years ago I could do anything Sue: (Laughs) Adam: You introduce yourself, You've got to shake Look at the camera, It's way cooler than Mum's moved in with me now, so that It turned out to be a great decision, with somebody she knows and she's Oh it's wonderful, the fact that he can Yeah but there again, you see... Oh what was I going to say? He has to have his own life too. He's got his life, but I fit into I'm not quite sure where. I'll just be out in the office If you just chill with Tye. My friend and I built an office in my garage I started my own media company. Working from home allows me and assist her with her without being in the house and So she can still be and I can still go to work But at the same time when She more calls me for the And if I wasn't there that's where the and not being able to look after herself So it's handy just Her days are not want and so I'm trying to make sure that she Generally from day to day, she She likes doing washing, gardening Most of it is watching TV and she'll either or she'll be sitting down That's where I try to break it up, and then the day time is spent with And break up that monotony After all the now I've just got to that even if I didn't want I think that's been the hardest There are the walks that are And they're something that but they're very It's the only thing that mum It's pretty scary, you get home and you think how long has How long has she been away? Every time you hear the foot there's a big sigh of relief We had a talk recently about how things are Obviously I'm trying to work for myself and And that's really difficult because then we're going to have to look Being that she can't it is going to have to be Mum took that really hard and that this is her worse and in a rest home That really just cuts you I have different toast Where are my pills? Where did my pills go? Oh my god, where did they go? I have no idea where my pills are. They were on my plate I had them all out Oh absolutely frustrating. You put things away that you And then you put a cup in the... In the, um... Um... A cup away and then you Well not... ...things like that. Yeah. It's just monotonous I'll deal with those later on I don't want that. I can't understand why... because the pills were And now they're not. This is what happens Yeah it's really frustrating, Actually I'm going to ring Adam. Director: Where's Adam? Sue: He's gone out Hi, I had my pills on a plate Oh... Okay than. Alright bye. Okay so I've got to I think I'm quite lucky while I'm in this situation because how to care for another dependent So that's definitely Sue: Is that new stuff? Tye: Yeah. Sue: Oh that's the one that Sue: Okay come on... (Laughs) Director: Sue do you No not a lot, but people Hey, have you been Tye: Yep How good? Tye: Normal Adam: Normal, so not super good Have you been good enough Tye: Yes. Although mum get's it's good that they spend time while everything's still good. Now it's not a race Slowly across the beams because Ready on your marks, Come on nana! (Laughs) Take you time Tye, Are you alright? (Laughs) Sue: Oh! Are you ready? (Laughs) Okay go, go! You've got to swing That will do, Tye come here, Come on nana! Slow down you. Come on nana! (Laughs) Adam: We should make the rule... that Tye has to do the and nana has to do it once. Go nana! You're doing well. Let's go! Adam: I think it's definitely I don't take anything or Because of everything I grab hold of something And the best things in life, That's the powerful side there's that the people around you can and go along with it, or they can And that's what we've And so it's a really special Adam: Quick start again Tye, Sue: What am I doing? Go nana, keep going nana! Come on Tye. Yay!! Adam: No you're Oh what?! Jump, grab on, that's it! Here we go, here we go... hold on, get over the side. Come on nana! Get your leg up! Here we go, here we go! (Laughs) Sue: Oh, oh!! (Laughs) Argh!!! (Laughs) Oh! Still got it! (Laughs) I went to a lot of the And I was always the youngest Adam: 17, 18... 19, 20... Ready or not Director: What were you scared of One of them was that I would be put Yeah and that was really, Where is he? Sue: Everybody just carries But I'm stuck here and I've just got to go along with You can't do what You can't go where And people taking... Um... People, um... People can just go off, go off But I can't and I've got have And it's just really horrible. Adam: Oh there you are! Look at you! Were you moving around on me? Adam: I kept looking for you Very good hiding spot, Director: If you had that freedom what do you think Traveling the world. Yay!!! Adam: Okay so you know that We leave here about 3.40pm, because we'll probably fly overnight And then we're flying to Bangkok Great? Yeah! Adam: After we got the diagnosis, &quot;Well I'm never going to travel I said, &quot;What do you mean travel?&quot; She said, &quot;Seeing the Eiffel Tower And I said, &quot;Don't worry And at the time I had absolutely I said it and then instantly thought But that's now going to be the which we are going Director: What are you hoping Sue: Just marvellous memories. (Laughs) Um... Yeah just good memories... and new friendships. The bags will be in your name, But Adam and I will be so you don't have to Gab: Do you know what you're Are you kind of just Sue: I'll go anywhere Director: Talk to me about Yeah he's going to bring Good ones, mmm. Just to make sure when you're that you don't go, And we turn around So you're going to have one that's going to be So you've got a backpack... and it's got a cat and So we'll put it onto your back and No I'm just kidding! (Laughs) They do have children's backpacks Adam: Yeah although we could No. (Laughs) Good answer. (Laughs) So what we might do We'll hold hands. I would say because we definitely do more than It's easy to sit here and say, but we weren't doing I think life would just be... you'd be happy and it would but it wasn't as extreme or Mmm... Yeah my sister and I drove Well, in the South Island. We use to have lots Today, Sue, we've got you Have you got your Sue: Yes. Have you got Yep. What about gloves? Here we go. I'll go and get you some bags And I'll come straight Okay. I'm weeding. Horrible job but What I like about are the birds and the wild life, It gives you a sense of serenity. No one has to help me And I can just do I love being in solitude. And just thinking about things. Director: What do I think about my Alzheimers. In my head I'm not Alzheimers, Director: What do Sometimes I don't feel I feel me, normal. I just think about things and Sometimes Adam just says, And I have no idea where Adam: We've got to get to So jump in the car and we can come So this doctor's appointment It's basically to get a medical so I can look after mum and We had an incident when we and mum had a couple bits of jewellery on I went over to help mum and the guy And he was quite firm. I kept on trying to explain and I told them, &quot;Look And basically they Then they got really suspicious ...and trying to help her. It was quite a traumatic experience. Director: Does that story Sue: What story? Doctor: Hi Sue how are you? Sue: I'm good at the moment. Doctor: Your trips is coming Sue: It is I can't wait. Doctor: When do you leave? Sue: Eight days away. With regards to your travel it's important that outlines your memory problems so that if you get into trouble So its, &quot;To whom it may concern &quot;The above named is a patient of mine &quot;She will be traveling overseas &quot;As a result of her dementia, she has &quot;...with reasoning and &quot;Because of this she is &quot;...in all matters relating Are you okay Yeah that's perfect, I couldn't How have you been over the Sue: Um, I think I've been fine, Adam: That's your question. Yeah I still get teary. Doctor: Do you get Yeah I do. Are there any particular I don't know. Adam: You know What? Adam: The thing that What you putting me in a home? Adam: I hate it when you But yeah talking about the That's probably the worst one, for mum to come right which was pretty devastating. Yeah. You don't have to worry We have got other things how we're going to (Laughs) Doctor: No you're not going Doctor: Definitely not. Adam: We're going Wahoo!!! Adam: The biggest thing is mum's condition and Yay!! Adam: Coming home from the trip, mum's disease has and she's no longer And that's a very real possibility. We're at the airport! It was something that I did think about But at the same time do you &quot;No we're not going on a trip just in case She would turn around and say... &quot;Well my Alzheimers is going to I want to go and see these things.&quot; That is the scariest thing because you're essentially But you still have I can't really fathom what Seeing your mum who's a shell But it's going to be and I would rather it happen while she's at this amazing journey rather than just when she's sitting around the house