well in just a minute I'm going to take you to make sure you knew elevation nights is times Fort Worth we're coming your way February Pittsburgh Pennsylvania get ready Toronto it's going to be awesome Hartford Connecticut so the dates are February 25th through March our whole team is coming Holly's going to now get your tickets they're going fast I God Now it is time for the Word of God. I trust that wherever you are you've been warm your heart to God's presence. I want to take There is a classic rock radio host I listen to, Have Been Huge But Weren't.&quot; I think one day I'll Should Have Been Huge But Weren't.&quot; This is one of I was privileged to share it with and today I would like to share it with your heart as I open my mouth, and that he your home to speak to you exactly what Judges 15:14-20. We're going to talk that story. Not the one where his strength and Popeye didn't eat You know, we cartoonize these Bible characters. but the only real hero in the Bible is Jesus. because they do heroic things, but they have human I'm sure I'd find some heroic things, some characteristics about your life, your kindness, But if I looked a little bit closer, I'm Even these singers behind me. Don't let the because all of us, whether we preach or sing deeply human instincts. Samson, of But I want to tell you about something never heard about before. The Bible says the Philistines...&quot; That was the enemy toward him shouting. The Spirit of Let's note something really quickly. It says the So he's outnumbered. He's outmatched. He's if he's going to survive it, it is going to have at something running toward you in your life supernatural is going to have to happen. Well, &quot;The ropes on his arms became like fire. Some of the stuff God does he'll just do it. You won't even see the bindings dropped from his hands.&quot; What was God is freeing you for the fight. Not but you're going to have two free hands look at verse 15. He has two free hands, &quot;Finding a fresh jawbone of a donkey, he Then Samson said, 'With a donkey's jawbone I have have killed a thousand men.'&quot; Samson has a Now listen to this. This is crazy. &quot;When he thousand enemies...one man...with a donkey's jawbone. &quot;When he finished [that] and the place was called Ramath Lehi.&quot; Which Samson. &quot;Because he was very 'You have given your servant this great victory. of the uncircumcised? [Into the hands of my The Bible says, &quot;Then God opened up the hollow Samson drank, his strength returned and he and it is still there in Lehi. Samson led the Philistines.&quot; The last several weeks, I've even realize it was a series when I started it God doesn't show you what they are until I preached a few weeks ago a sermon called God the next week I came back and talked about because we were expecting to hear, &quot;God will times the external conflict in our lives is not We realized he is building us up on the we will be able to accommodate that blessing. or surprising to you in your life does not whatever it is you're dealing with before, and Then last week, I had a really good time just to remind you that when you get thing you thought you were going to have up. I just thought of this example when the &quot;Who's going to roll the stone away? When they got there, they found out God dispatches already rolled the stone, and they were like, just relaxed and enjoyed the journey. Oh! I God's got the hard part.&quot; Well, these are three in a fight, wherever that fight breaks out. I Well, I believe you sometimes also have with. These three things are powerful &quot;I can't do this,&quot; and you get that &quot;I can't do this...&quot; That's the Devil talking, saying, &quot;I can't do this,&quot; so you just Or when something comes up...it just pops up, God will work it in.&quot; Then when something you just say, &quot;Oh, God can use this too, the emotions I want and the emotions I can't get Today I want to give you a fourth statement. Say that out loud. &quot;God gave it like you have to be shy about it. Look at Ask them, &quot;Do you like my hair? God gave it take it up with him. He gave me the This view toward life will keep you from becoming things you are good at are things that came never boast again in a gift that God gave you, about? If it was a gift, then why would you feel In 1 Corinthians 4:7, the church was fighting leader and that leader and this preacher and questions. First Corinthians 4:7: &quot;For who makes that you did not receive? And if you did receive Tell your neighbor, &quot;You're not that smart.&quot; The bit? You felt like I'm attacking your IQ? No, I'm idea and a God idea, and the ones that really God. How many know God can give you one idea one person to reach out to who can help with that you don't know who to ask about. in a brand-new path for your life. It's different when God gives it. Another talk about Samson briefly is when Jesus told but I'm giving my peace to you internally. What does that mean? They can't take it So, nobody can steal your peace without your you turn the responsibility over to them. The made.&quot; So, the one who gave you the day, the the one who gave it to you, also expects you It is so important that the gifts God has put the things he has put in your life and called you gave you. &quot;You take care of the car I gave you. to you. I know you paid a little bit of it, but I The Bible I'm preaching from today... First of all, This Bible belonged to my father-in-law. He had like I was doing his funeral for a minute again I would go sneak and read this Bible at his he put every note he ever preached from in this I would go in his basement and flip through because they're all there in the margin. I special to me. You couldn't buy this Bible from &quot;You don't have to wait for me to That way you'll pray for me to stay So, if you want a Bible today here at church, you for free, but not this one. You can't have same words as the free one on the phone, but offer me $100. You can't have it. Don't offer me we can talk. Maybe you just copy the notes But I'm saying it would take a lot. There is is different because of who gave it because I think you give stuff away too cheap important. I see you giving away your dignity You would give away your dignity, your respect, which is love, to come down to a hateful level would give away your healthy heart to to say this isn't a political message, So let's not let a devil divide us over blood to bring us together. It's different some good ideas... This is what is remarkable to flawed figure who was given at a specific time One of the interesting things about he was different. I don't know if you know about is how Delilah cut his hair off and he Just like we do with everybody, by the way. We either their gift or their glitch. your biography with one sentence on we are just as good at deifying people for what This dude Instagram messaged me one time. (I just but sometimes I do.) I was singing &quot;Preachers preach. Singers sing. Stick to what he could do with that comment, because song God put in my heart. It's different and I need to pray just to reset the whole tone Let me encourage you with this. Never let anybody because you are so much more than both of You are so much more than that. You are You are so much more than mom. Don't down to the one thing you do for them, Married couples, quit being your kids' each other's spouses. You end up without don't even come see you when they go. Don't I love Samson because he gives me callings to flawed people. He delivered and he flirted with the Philistines that he when I read you the passage in Judges, chapter 15, to flash back to all of the things it was his insistence to go get a Philistine His parents warned him against it. His parents have this Philistine girl. The problem with it He liked the Philistine, but the Philistines So now I understand in my life the the things God has called me to do and things I struggle with. Some of the things God be wrapped up in the things I am in constant So, he marries this woman who's &quot;I'm telling you, this is not going to given to another man in marriage while Samson he was very angry, and since Samson was very Oh yeah. He was both. He was impulsive and Innovative, impulsive Samson found 300 foxes, and set their tails on fire. This is in your the Bible that you don't read enough. This heard before. He takes 300 fox tails, ties them them running through the fields of the The Philistines hear about what Samson did. They burn the house down. Samson is mad about that. They come to the people of Judah. They say, &quot;We give you Samson. We'd rather you take Samson than all kind of selfish in our hearts. So they come As he's walking down to the Philistines, that I read to you a moment ago where the the Lord came upon Samson. When the the ropes that were holding him became weak. than what bound him. Because of the Spirit Because of the Spirit of the Lord, the had to release him the next. When the you might be surprised what you can do that you strength Samson needed to break the ropes He didn't break those ropes with muscles; break those ropes with muscles; you just to realize how much God has done in your life because a whole week passes, and you A whole week passes, and you don't remember and you are so consumed by the next credit for the last blessing. So, Samson is Philistines coming at him. He has two hands, We all need weapons from time to Elevation Church. I want to ask a question God could have put in Samson's path, if Samson do you think he would have chosen this one? Read again in Judges 15:15. I love how the Bible any sense. &quot;Finding a fresh jawbone of a donkey, With no explanation of how one jawbone in the men. There is no nuance given to it. There There is no talk of his training, that when jawbones of donkeys. He always had a thing for would talk about donkeys in elementary school, he he always had a thing for donkeys, a fascination specifically, the density of their So, if Samson would have been able to select a a better one than the jawbone of a donkey? Let's I know you didn't study Judges 15 this week, but better weapon that existed in this time? I have to of illegal stuff. But something that existed in Definitely, I'd rather stab them with a spear A sword? Yeah, I'd rather have a sword. I'd rather fight them with a sword. What else? because then you could keep your know they're coming. That way there's This is bloody. You say, &quot;The Bible doesn't say it Did you see it? It said he found the jawbone it's a fresh jawbone of a donkey. Oh, well, thousand of them and one of me, and I have the At least it's a fresh one. At least it's If it was a dry one, it would be it would break. But the Bible says that Samson, running toward him and his life on the and his hands are free, but he has no Who am I preaching to today? You have no weapon and added to this, the one you found if you had been asked about what weapon to about what they say. But God says... And But God says... And I don't care But God says... And I don't care about what your how big they are. God says the worst weapon with I'd rather have a jawbone of a donkey than a I'll take the donkey every It's not the best weapon, but it's a fresh weapon. I used to come home telling Holly all the time, &quot;I know if I'm good at being a pastor. I don't know I have experience enough to be a pastor. I just She would say, &quot;Well, you're the one we've got. Which one is the best? The one you've &quot;I know I might not be the best at parent you would have picked, I might be a donkey, but I have a destiny, and So I feel kind of confident about it, because I much to do a lot. I feel kind of like it doesn't what the donkey's jawbone teaches me. It's Samson. Impressive. I even brought notes in this folder that I bought from a baby oil. The Ultimate Warrior. Y'all don't know I was trying to make a list. I was thinking about I'm going to try to do it. The Ultimate Warrior. day. I know wrestling is fake, and men in tights, but some of us love it. We don't know why we love It's an ultimate expression of masculinity. a warrior with weaknesses, and we would say although he battled with greater things Samson ends in a crushing defeat for his own life. I want to point something out to you from it ends in victory. When it starts that and apply it over your day, over your I'll say it again. If it starts with God...your day, even if it goes through seasons of defeat. So, defeat (a silent Saturday, a bloody cross), The sad thing about Samson is that he was born An angel came to his mother and said, &quot;You're When he came back, she said, &quot;An angel just &quot;What angel? Who came and told you you're going &quot;You're going to have a baby, and protect it. God is giving you this child, this child is going to be given to the whole things. So you need to raise this child in It's different when it's given. When something see Samson doing something amazing with a but it's ridiculous what he does next. an incredible intervention of God, such a &quot;Hey, a minute ago I couldn't even use my Philistines, and I'm still breathing.&quot; but Samson does something so stupid. I do won a great victory... Some of you are in You have seen God do amazing things in Verse 16: &quot;Then Samson said, 'With a of them. With a donkey's jawbone I have just saved your life and you want to Samson is like, &quot;Oh, this is amazing. Wow! he goes, &quot;'With a donkey's jawbone...' Let's see. me a great success. God just did a great thing. I have killed a thousand men.' No, let me put this in there. 'With a donkey's that's clever. See? Because I'm talking Why are you singing about donkeys when God the thing he used when you know good and Why do we become so attached to jawbones? Why you mean by that, Pastor Steven?&quot; thing God did through you proves how over and over again. &quot;With a donkey's He's talking about them. He's talking about the definitely talking about himself. He's talking a specific song. But where is God in your You know the miracle did. You know it wasn't a jawbone. You know it was only praise the thing you used; praise the one who kept jawbone; depend on the one who could use something How many of you, God has done so much life that it just doesn't make sense? that doesn't make sense. Don't worship depend on the thing that doesn't make sense, if God had left your hand tied, you couldn't If God wouldn't have brought you out be here today. If God would have let you you'd be locked up. If God wouldn't you wouldn't be singing about the joy of worship the one who gave it, and turn &quot;With a donkey's jawbone...&quot; I don't care what sing. &quot;With a donkey's jawbone.&quot; With the with the anointing of the Holy Spirit, with the resurrection power of Jesus, with That's what I'm praising. Not a jawbone. I'm praising the God who knew I would need something for me to grab. The truth of the matter grabbed what we had and God did what he does. How didn't make sense. It didn't look good. They were had. I didn't have a sword. I grabbed what I had. Some of you didn't have a dad to raise you didn't get a college education. don't have the best health right now. &quot;I best team around me. I grabbed what I but I grabbed what I had, and God did what Grab what you have. You don't need a better need greater faith. You need more innovation. but God gave it to me, and a jawbone with Jesus, a a small thing with Jesus is better than &quot;For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal of strongholds.&quot; So, a crazy thing happens to After you get done glorifying the jawbone... Hey, God gave you that job, but it's God will kill another donkey. but you'd better get this while you can, because he wants you to know you don't need You don't even have to like provide for you. When did we start &quot;I have to like everything&quot;? &quot;I have to like my let alone people I work with. But God can use fresh so it didn't break. That is the A jawbone is only 18 inches. It isn't but it didn't break. Am I talking about a but it didn't break. That's the miracle. It It didn't break. Think about the miracle of my heart was torn, but it didn't break. It's still pumping. God still has In verse 17, Samson throws that bone away, which means Jawbone Hill. Of course, rather Samson names it something about the jawbone. I want to show you something that can happen out. Did you know that's possible? You can be people who need preaching of encouragement and you're in a losing season. You just lost a Nuh-uh. You can be winning and worn out. not have empathy for you, because their envy win. I'm preaching what I know. Everybody around They'll say things like, &quot;Oh, you're just I'm not supposed to be your everything. Please to be. I don't want you to come to me as your be winning and worn out, because the people That's a dangerous place, because then you get feel like, &quot;Even though I won...for what?&quot; Have what?&quot; It can be very empty to stand It can be impossible to sustain Samson's whole life started in a barren womb. It God. The thing Samson forgot while he was busy I heard a story about a guitar player. and he was playing it so beautifully. He was He played it, and everybody around him was talking was made from, the intonation of the guitar, even guitar, how expensive it was. The whole time he wonderful the guitar was. Finally, very quietly in the stand, looked back at the audience, While you were busy noticing the instrument, you it was in the one who knew what to do hard when you start praising the the skill, the gift. When you start Verse 18. Samson was very thirsty, because he won, but he was dry. He won a victory, but he &quot;You have given your servant now die of thirst and fall into He's asking a question. &quot;God, what good dehydration?&quot; Look at what happens in verse &quot;Then God opened up the hollow place in never been. &quot;Then God opened up the hollow So, it was a dry basin, but then... It was a place, and water that was beneath the ground his strength returned and he revived. So the there in Lehi.&quot; I want to focus on that one verse before it and see what happened that made I want to see in this season of my life what is that I can do everything he has called me, named raised me, appointed me, and assigned me to do. &quot;Because he was very thirsty, he cried out he talked to God in this whole passage. When great victory...&quot; Then he goes on to complain. the uncircumcised?&quot; He didn't even pray right. When he said, &quot;You,&quot; then... I have to get you to You can't die in this discouragement. What good you die because you have nothing to drink? When &quot;You did it, God. You made it happen. You supplied my needs. You brought me you, you, you, you.&quot; Then God opened could do. Here's the principle: When you refocus, God refills. I feel today. I feel a fresh flow coming to strength coming to your freed hands not on the dryness. God gave it to me, and if My very best friend in the world comes to church he happened to wear a jacket I gave him. Stand that I gave you. Now I want you to find him He doesn't even know how to fight, but he'll fight You will think he's a UFC fighter if you try to it means something to him. Because I wanted it. Offer him $1,000. He might take it, buy What I'm saying is it's different because it was given. It's different. I bled for this. I cried for this. I far to give it over. Besides how hard I I want you to hold to this word in this season everything you know is supposed to come to pass, last week) that hasn't become a stalk yet. You you will stop singing about donkey jawbones and If you will stop focusing on the donkey and start there is a spring in Lehi. There's a joy peace spring. There's a new spring. Do you not me! Take 20 seconds and praise him for this day. Why am I praising him? Because he gave it to me! I have to make the most. He gave it to me! I can't High-five at least 10 people and say, &quot;Praise him you; praise him for what he gave you, because I want you to get grateful. I want you to some victories and start giving some credit make you to use you how he wanted. Listen how he made you. You are glitches and you are I went through a season a few years voice. You would too if you had to Somebody told me recently... It was my dental cleaning my teeth. I didn't know how to have She said, &quot;I saw a clip of you on Instagram.&quot; today.&quot; I said, &quot;I don't post those. I don't &quot;You don't post your own clips?&quot; I said, &quot;Would have to listen to yourself say it again and It's torture.&quot; How many of you like to hear a recording? How many of you just enjoy that? Honestly, God had to deal with me a conversation I had with Abbey. I and she said something negative about her voice. of dealing with this... She was much smaller, As she was saying, &quot;Oh, I don't have a great or that, I said, &quot;Hey, hey, hey. Let's and I want you to value it.&quot; I'm not one &quot;You can sing better than Adele.&quot; Because she &quot;You don't know how God wants to use I get to work with all of these incredible but it's also... Try to stand next to and sing something. I would listen to myself sing, and I would hear them sing and all the vibrato I went home one day, and I was thinking, &quot;I hate ago. The Lord said, &quot;You hate what I gave you?&quot; a cycle. Now, I'm telling you a &quot;me&quot; story for a me; it's illustration time. God said, &quot;You can't One side of it is pride. &quot;I killed a thousand have nothing to give.&quot; Both of them are gave it to me...my voice, your voice, your your guidance, your experience, your style. means? You don't have to be jealous of what he with them. You don't have to apologize On one hand I'm tempted to diminish it. &quot;I hate my to do about that? You'd better get some heels. good as it's going to get. You'd better take your The beautiful thing about it is I'm no tempted to depend on it, because I know it had it had to do with the strength of my God. that over this challenge you're going through even the giant, even the fight. &quot;God gave He must be planning to do &quot;God gave it to me. God gave me this thing Samson's life comes down to it all, it What are you doing with the strength the stuff he gave you? What are you doing you don't get to waste it. If God Do you remember the parable about the man had one and somebody else had five? God gave You are listening to a preacher preach to you sound of his own voice. Don't tell me what you use. Don't tell me what God can't do. I don't I want to pray over those things in your life I want you to see them as in the same hands, eyes. There's something significant God is today. As you take responsibility for that refocus it. The starting place is not So now, God, we worship you because of the battles you've won for all of the times that all we had was Say it out loud. &quot;You did it.&quot; He's again. &quot;You did it.&quot; He's the one who set God, we're not going to get to we have to do it by ourselves. We have a Right now, I want to give somebody has never placed their faith in Jesus. The it is God. Salvation is not spelled The work for you to be saved is finished by of you to repent of your sin and give your If God has brought you here this day and I'm going to lead you in a prayer. This prayer Bible says if you will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. Not might be Today, if you will call on his name, he will as a church family, for all of those Heavenly Father, today is my day of a Savior. I believe that Jesus Christ is and today I make Jesus the Lord of my life. and rose again to give me life. I receive On the count of three, shoot your three. We're celebrating you all over this room. God bless you. God keep you. God make his Let's celebrate all of those who just lift up a great shout of praise, church! Church YouTube I want you to subscribe that new content make sure leave me a comment let watching from and what we can pray for the ministry financially you can click reaching people around the world for Jesus