Today, I am playing Worldle, followed by Globle, followed by Capitale, Basically, I'm playing every and I'm about 18 months late. Okay, Worldle, This is obviously India. Guess. We got confetti and everything. But, Worldle have added bonus rounds, So we can guess So there's eight, but I reckon I should be That's Sri Lanka, So let's go for that one. Then that's Pakistan, number six. And then we've also got... Yeah, I can get these. I can get all of these. Bit unsure on one and two. Number three is definitely China. Then that is Myanmar, number four. Good, this is going well. Then that is Nepal, I think. What's that one, Bangladesh. I'm not sure if number one Let's try Bangladesh. Made it angry. Sorry about that. There's Bangladesh. Nepal, and what is this one It's not Burma. When there's no sense of scale, I'm going to just try some I'm going to try Afghanistan and guess. Oh, it is Afghanistan. They must have What is the last one? Might have to give up, because I'll definitely but yeah, let's give up. It was Bhutan, of course! Yeah, I knew that one. Fortunately, I have still Can I get the capital of India I think so. I'm going to try New Delhi, There we go. Then finally, guess the flag, That's Mynamar, that's China, that's Pakistan, that's Bangladesh, that's India, and that's Afghanistan. There we go. The currency, Wait... It's population What is the estimated population? It's over a billion. It's now officially the most What is the currency? That's the Rupee, of course. Ooh, play our new photography game. All right, I'll save But for now, we're doing Globle, I used to play this every But I've not played it in ages now. I just love spinnng it around. Whoop, whoop, whoop. I'm going to close my eyes. and then whatever my mouse is on, Oh, my mouse is not on anything, which isn't an acceptable answer. Okay, we'll do it again. Click, click, click, Where are we here? It's like Thailand, I think. I'll try Thailand then. Okay, so the country is 9600 kilometres so basically I need to be So maybe we could go... Let's go for Burkina Faso Oh, my God. That means it could be Ivory Coast. It could be Ghana, I think. Maybe Liberia. I'll go with Liberia. Oh, no. Stop being silly. Come on. No, it's next to it again. In that case, it's probably Ghana then. Ghana is not right either. That means it's the other side. There's a few countries here. Right, there's Guinea, there's Senegal, but I don't think any of those are here. Mali is quite a big one. It was Mali. Okay, it was a really strong second guess, Okay, next we're going to do Countryle, but first please subscribe I would really appreciate it. I only need 20,000 subscribers before we overtake and that'd be good, wouldn't it? Right, let's do Countryle So I've done a couple of shorts on this. It's quite good. Let's start with Cyprus There you go. Now it compares a bunch to whatever the correct answer is, so because this is red, that we're looking for is not It's in the southern. Its average temperature is I think that's what it means. It also has less than 1.2 million Right, so south-east from Cyprus, Where could we go? 1.2 million is not much. I wonder if I should try the Maldives. Is that in the northern hemisphere? The equator is somewhere I'm going to try Maldives Yeah, that was a terrible, but at least we know Wait, no, no, no, no, Whatever country this is has more I got the arrows mixed up. So in that case, I should maybe just try and see how we get on. Okay, there we go. I probably could have got that in two All right, the creators of the Countryle which is where you have But first, let's try WhereTaken. So I might be wrong, So let's just try it. and let's click guess. Yes, I got it. I thought that I hadn't got it, So now I get to play Which landmark is in South Africa? That doesn't look... Well, maybe that does This one doesn't, though, and any of the others potentially I'm going to say this one though, Oh, I was wrong. Nice one, you correctly guessed I'm not familiar with that, Okay, and then final round. Where in South Africa was the photo Right, well, obviously we know it's This is maybe the right shape but I suppose you could say Also, we can discount this one That's Eswatini here, and then it moves So based on that, I was wrong. It's either here, here or here. Unless there's a very large lake but I'm going to say there. There's another bonus round! Which city in South Africa Okay, this is where I'm going to screw up. The only one I can think of is Guess. Oh, my God. There's a nice little turtle That's nice. All right, I guess we Things are going quite well. Should we say... Is Cape Town Yeah, let's go for it. Okay, so it is in Africa, but everything else is wrong Now we know where Cape Town is. Basically, it has to be over in Oh, my God. Can I name any capitals I don't think I can. Oh, God. Nigeria, I used to think that their Lagos is just the most populated What am I going to do? Right, what I can do is if I type they very helpfully I'm not going to accept it as a real Let's be honest. So Nigeria, I don't I want to go somewhere I want to go with the which apparently is Conakry, which would be a very hard Still north-west of Guinea. Not that far away though, Mali, we'll go with Bamako in Mali. Let's try that. No, but this time now I'll try Dakar in Senegal. No, now I've gone too high. Now I need to go south-east. There's also less than 1.1 million people. Shall I go with Guinea Bissau, and the capital That's nice. Now, that's difficult when So you can see that this is... Guys, I was actually looking at the map. So yeah, you can see that my first guess When they said it was south-west, I knew that we'd have to be All right, now we move on which is a Sporcle game. I think it works the same as Globle but it's a flat Mercator rather than a cute and it's timed too. Let's see how we get on. Now, I'm not going to lie, I actually know the answer I needed to work out Let me explain. So if I say UK, it's all yellow but if I was to say South Africa, so that means it's probably So of course it is the Okay, now let's do one Let's try UK again. Right, a similar colour. Now I'm going to try Brazil. Close to Brazil. Maybe it even neighbours that. So let's go Peru. Argentina, maybe. That means it's probably Bolivia. Okay, I'm saying UK again Right, let's try Japan this time. A bit closer. Maybe India. No, actually further. So maybe New Zealand. No, New Zealand, Let's get Russia visible. Okay, so neighbours Russia then. North Korea, could it be? No. No. So I need to be maybe Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan, oh, no. I think that means So don't tell me it's China. It was. These are very fun. Okay, UK, once again, nowhere near. Okay, South Africa then. Let's try Mongolia. Also nowhere near. Brazil then. Yes. Now we're onto something. That suggests maybe it's Let's try Mexico. Don't tell me it's Central American. Nicaragua. I think that means it neighbours it. Costa Rica then. Belize? No? I can't think of many others. I'll try Cuba while I'm here Similar distance for all of those. Go on. Dominica. Dominican Republic. Guatemala, then. There we go. They're getting obscure for number four. I wonder if they'll continue Uk. Poland, maybe. I just got really lucky on that one. Probably back in Africa, Apparently not. Let's try that. Let's try Canada then. Well, I guess we have That's a shame. No shame at all. All right, North Korea. No. Could be, could be. Maybe Columbia in that case. I'm going to try Suriname. Oh, we are flying. Next one, next one. Japan again. Nope, so let's try Algeria in that case. Okay, somewhat close, maybe Guinea in that case. No other way, so Saudi Arabia. I'll try Saudi Arabia. Here we go. Jordan, Syria, Now the final quiz of the video. UK off the bat. Could it be Ireland then? Could it be Spain then? No, further away. Trying to catch me out with a little Not a problem for me. Thank you very much for watching. This was really fun actually. I wish I'd made this a year ago Thanks for watching everyone.