Halftime in the ETM-Fehrenkotter practice test. The comparison of seven road trains has been running since July 2021. And as always, it's all about determining the economy and suitability for everyday use of the individual trucks. As always, this test not only attracts widespread interest in the entire commercial vehicle industry, but is also of particular interest to truck drivers. Because they are the ones who are on the road with the tractors day after day and always tremble a bit, so to speak. But the current test differs from the previous tests. The Ukraine war has far-reaching consequences and of course also affected the economic environment of the transport industry. Above all, the cost explosion in diesel and AdBlue prices should be mentioned . Well, diesel fuel has always been the truck's biggest expense. Here we are at almost 35 percent. And if, of course, the price of diesel explodes, as has happened in the last twelve months, that obviously means that fuel consumption is even more important. Then there is the AdBlue consumption. AdBlue has also become extremely expensive. And if you didn't take a close look at the AdBlue consumption in previous tests , whether the truck now uses a liter or one and a half, or even two. But with AdBlue prices, which in some cases are no longer inferior to diesel prices at the gas station, AdBlue consumption is of course also important. Thank God we have a so-called diesel floater with all our customers, which means that our prices are also adjusted as a percentage depending on the level of the diesel price, and I'll say it: we're talking about clearly double-digit price adjustments here, without which we wouldn't do anything can exist. In the first part of the interim results, we come to the individual test candidates. First there is the MAN TGX 26.470 with a displacement of 12.4 liters and 470 hp. Ongoing problems with the exhaust system were covered by a guarantee or goodwill, but caused the tractor unit to be down for three days. As a further cost, the TGX had to put up with a renewed switch strip on the multifunction steering wheel. However, the gloomy cost picture is in stark contrast to the very positive experiences that Fehrenkotter Transport &amp; Logistik has otherwise had with the MAN TGX. But that's the way it is with the practical test: everything that affects day-to-day operations counts here. Truck only makes money when it's running. And if that fails, we naturally have an immediate problem with the yield. And that is reflected in the overall view. So if a vehicle, like the MAN TGX here, fails due to a problem with the AdBlue system, this day of failure is also calculated. The repair is certainly covered by a guarantee or the parts and labor, but the lost day is still included in the calculation and certainly throws a vehicle back. The MAN TGX from Fehrenkotter was first registered on March 8, 2021. An average consumption of 29.1 liters per 100 kilometers was determined. No particularly striking economic value. But one must not forget that this truck has also been modified in the meantime and the current changes might have had an impact on fuel consumption. This also applies to a number of equipment features. With MAN, what we would have liked back then, we would have liked to have had these Optiview cams, i.e. the mirror system based on cameras, which is now available as standard. The aerodynamics have been sharpened again, as far as I know, the engine has another ten hp more. Well, I could imagine that the deficit that we are currently seeing in terms of consumption would have actually been eliminated with these measures. Volvo Trucks achieved the best result in the company's history in 2022 with 145,195 trucks delivered. After all, an increase of 19 percent compared to the previous year. Above all, the FH 460 6 x 2 with 469 hp and 12.8 liters displacement is a real success model. In the ETM Fehrenkotter practical test, this Volvo with Globetrotter XL cab impresses with a very moderate diesel consumption of 27.5 liters. That the Volvo so far within the test ranked second can of course also be due to the fact that a modification took place immediately before it was approved. An adjustment, then, with immediate consequences for the test! So it's like that with the Volvo, it's been facelifted again, so to speak, and has got a different look. Got a digital dashboard. Of course, these are things that we, our drivers in particular, really like. In terms of economy, it can always be assumed that if the engine is touched again , something will come of it. And as I said: Every half liter counts. The DAF XF 480 with Super Space Cab from Fehrenkotter was first registered in March 2021. Its successor was presented just under a year later. Theoretically , one could think that the old XF would hardly stand a chance against the many current trucks and their digital added value. But the ETM Fehrenkotter practical test also shows that proven technology can definitely be a plus point compared to innovative innovations. The superior 2021 XF consumes 28.49 liters per 100 kilometers. In everyday life, he convinces precisely by being the good old man. The qualities of the DAF, especially in the driver's cab, have always been the same for decades. So, a particularly large bed, particularly high quality, a particularly large amount of space in the cabin. It's really appreciated by many drivers. There are always drivers who do without digitized content or a camera-based mirror system, but drive their DAF instead. And that somehow hasn't gone out of fashion. 100 trucks in the Fehrenkotter fleet are Mercedes-Benz and Actros trucks. This makes the Actros the volume model in the fleet, so to speak. In the ETM Fehrenkotter practical test, it is the Actros 2645 6X2 Gigaspace. This model, on which many drivers and also Joachim Fehrenkotter, appreciate the mirror cams, has 449 hp and 12.8 liters displacement. In terms of consumption, this truck, which was registered in March 2021, currently occupies third place with 28.41 liters per 100 kilometers. But this Actros engine has also been revised again in the meantime. Well, there are several things about the current Actros that would of course have interested us in the test vehicle. That's the engine that has been optimized again, which certainly also brings another three or four percent, as we can see here in the fleet . Then we have the new headlights, which are very well received by our drivers. And one point of criticism that I have already mentioned is the noise level. This has been improved significantly, the Actros is now really quiet. This was only part 1 of our interim report on the status of the ETM Fehrenkotter practical test. Next time we'll tell you the fuel consumption and values of the Scania S 450, the Iveco S-Way and the Renault T 480. And then there is also our current hit list with the average consumption of all tractor units.