[Music] Assalamualaikum friends who are blessed by Allah, today I will tell the story of an Ustaz who faced a tough test when his beloved goat gave birth to something unusual, but before that I suggest you write a prayer for the Prophet Muhammad so that later this prayer can be a witness for intercession. in the afterlife, subscribing to this channel will really help spread the message of Islam and become a charity. Maulina is a midwife in this village and has been working in the village for years. One day on her routine trip, Maulina witnessed something. What surprised him was that in the middle of the village a man was slaughtering his goat in an open field while a group of people gathered around him creating an unusual noise. With curiosity, Maulina approached the crowd and asked one of the residents about what was going on there. The man answered that there was something. there was something strange about these goats and they were all curious even though they felt something was wrong. Maulina decided to stay at the location and observe more closely hoping to understand the situation that was going on . But for my goats, Ustaz Madi explained that something was about to happen to them. goats and asked Maulina to come immediately, assuring her that this task was not difficult and only required simple maintenance with mixed feelings of trust and worry . But Danuk was nearby even though he had enough experts to understand what was going on. Maul's eyes caught something strange coming from a crack in his shelter. What was this? The people in the village started whispering that Mother's feelings are not only like that but there are also PRs who have feelings. Sera. This story continues to the past when in this village there were people who really loved orphans, there was even an orphan who was raised by the hand of a mother who had died. This created a calm atmosphere. and deep and full of silence istang touluk OB Maul suggested that Madi's wife go to the city for further examination because the doctors in the city had found many methods that might be able to help them but Ust stated that they were poor people and could not afford to take their wives to the city so that the situation continued without milking Mawa, a King child who was born and looked after him like his own child. The goat needed milk quickly but in difficult conditions Madi continued to care for the goat without considering the practical benefits. Villagers started discussing changes in Ustaz Madi's fate since he brought Betty and many felt that something was wrong with the goat. Maulina herself couldn't fully understand why Ustaz Madi was so crazy about Betty, but she felt the need to continue to help and support her friend, seeing Betty's condition, which seemed increasingly fragile, made her heart break. Maulina was devastated as if everything that happened to the goat was on the verge of death, something was wrong and Maulina felt the need to prepare herself to face the worst possibility even though she herself was full of doubts. Then one quiet night when Maulina visited Ustaz's house Madi, she saw Ustaz Madi's wife in the room crying in submission with anxiety. Maulina asked what was really going on here when Zahra, Ustaz Madi's wife, started giving Betty a strange-looking drink. The atmosphere suddenly became tense. Suddenly she heard a sound. The sound of crying from around them made Maulina confused and felt that something was wrong. She looked to one side and found Betty who was also sick. Meanwhile nearby there was a baby who was fast asleep after drinking milk. The baby looked like a human tucked between the gaps in the wood. and the residents who came tried to lift him and the situation at home became chaotic because the baby was seen really like a human baby Maulina Sega picked up the baby and wrapped it in a blanket feeling confused and didn't know what to do when Maul maay was k Mat Madi and his wife Dian had a surprised expression m with the kameg's influence Maulja felt confused and sad seeing how the baby was it could appear and be treated without understanding what was actually happening when morning came Maulina saw Ustaz Madi and his wife talking about how the goat had given birth to an unexpected human baby they were very shocked and didn't know what to do meanwhile Maul could only watch with mixed feelings. Des started talking about this strange incident spreading the news about a human baby born from a goat which caused fear and confusion among the residents. Madi's wife took the baby and covered him in a warm cloth before going to his house to get food and milk for him. Maulina saw how sad the mother of the baby was while people in the village started talking about this strange incident with concerns they said that the baby might be a curse or God's wrath. Ustaz Madi asked in despair whether times were like this. What happened? I don't understand what the Lord Maul asked me to explain his shoulder. There was something wrong with the bet but it still didn't seem normal to have happened and he felt that there was a force behind the birth of the human baby . He decided to find out more in the hope of finding clues or help that could explain this situation Maulina Urged Zahra, Ustaz Madi's wife, to speak and explain the baby's situation , but Zahra remained silent and said that she couldn't talk about it because she was afraid of the consequences. Madi listened carefully and felt that this baby was a gift, something that should not be taken lightly. they started discussing the possibility of taking the baby to a doctor or specialist who could help with this difficult situation even though they knew exactly what kind of help they needed about Maul meh bet he knew meng manimaanonlik and keb Diar Des could have another child and this baby would be the only one that they have so they feel they have to protect it wholeheartedly. She believes that this baby is a gift from God that cannot be left alone. Even though they don't understand how the baby was born, Zahra also supports Madi's opinion, emphasizing that this baby is their only hope for continuing the lineage and in line with the suggestions given by M's mother M, the death of Betungan caused the human Bay to think that human babies could be born from Betti goats, but there was no reasonable explanation that she could find. Finally, Maulina began to seek help from people who were better off. experienced people hoping to find someone who knows about Supernatural phenomena with Suraji Maulina began their search to find spiritual figures or traditional healers who might know how to deal with these problems hoping to find someone who had the right knowledge they visited several traditional healers and spiritual teachers but many of them considered this incident too strange or unusual in their efforts to seek help to get answers to this mystery. Suraji began asking people around them if anyone had experienced a similar incident or knew who it might be. responsible for this incident but no one knows the answer and many people are starting to feel afraid and suspicious of Maulina and Ustaz Madi. Maulina and Suraji find that some people in the village consider them to be the cause of the disaster, which adds to their pressure and difficulty in seeking help. They feel increasingly isolated and having difficulty getting support from society increasingly afraid and distrustful of Maul, Maul feels frustrated because no one wants to listen to Maul's explanation and Merbak finds an unexpected situation on Zah's side. Madi becomes angry. very well the people in the village took care of the baby and helped him and was steadfast and continued to care for the baby lovingly without caring about other people's views. He felt that his role was to look after the baby as his family's only hope. Although many people did not understand and doubted Mere Maul's good intentions. positive attitude towards Zahra and Mera was inspired by his feelings and believed in seeing Zahra as a kind person. Even though they themselves were still facing big problems, one day a woman named Liana came to Maulina's house in a very bad condition. bad with high fever and difficulty breathing Maulina asked what happened and why for almost a year Liana had not been seen in the village Liana explained that she was at her Uncle's house across the river in the next village and since returning from there she felt unwell Maulina immediately checked her condition Liana and realizing that something was wrong, the beautiful and well-known young girl in the village now looked very sick and confused. He tried to calm her down and asked Liana to speak but Liana remained silent and just stared blankly at Maulina. Maul began to think that there was a connection between the incident. their village with Lana ia's condition felt that this mystery was getting more complicated and needed further investigation. When Maulina tried to help Liana, she felt something in Liana's stomach. The girl refused and begged Maulina to save her, but her condition got worse and she couldn't hold on anymore. Finally, Liana admitted that she had given birth. and took the baby with him , Anir Dar, who wanted to take care of him and his children, decided to seek help from other people who might be able to intervene or help him, as Mere Bush Mur village seemed to ignore the increasing tensions and conflicts. his duties as a religious leader and focused more on caring for the baby . Zahra also became increasingly concerned about caring for the baby, often spending hours at home without talking to other people . perhaps it was a blessing for her family that Maulina finally spoke to Madi and convinced her that this baby was part of their family and should be cared for well. Even though they were confused about its origins after some time the tension and conflict in their village began to subside with the previously chaotic situation now becoming more Zah calmed down and started helping the people around them caring for the sick and helping neighbors who needed help. The baby's presence finally brought peace and new hope to their family and the village as a whole.