[Music] How do you make a perfect pop song? That's 80s when I joined my first band. I've spoken to engineers, label owners, I've been in studios I've even pulled apart original multitracks out what what makes a hit a hit. And here's what of what makes a hit but there's one thing they a contender if it doesn't cast a spell over in the 80s the best record producers had a that they used to ensure that their track had a the way. But these golden rules have largely we tend to make music on computers instead of in way. So now I'm going to share everything that about long lost production secrets of the the key ingredients of a hit record? Well apart the snare. and the bass. You get those right the you can put all the fancy stuff on top and your that's more or less a verbatim quote from one worked with everyone from punks like Buzzcocks and records of all time, Dare by The Human League. And to get the kick and the snare and the bass working distilled that down into three core principles and some of my old band's original multitrack tapes. are just outside the 80s] We were using technology tape recorders. [stereo overhead stereo toms, track on every tape was given over to something software like Cubase to sync up to our tape core of everything we were doing. The reason why band we were transitioning away from trying to New Order and Pet Shop Boys and other electronic in love with. And I remember when I heard West End in terms of parts and yet the emotional impact it or we thought we did and so we did what we thought we synchronised up sequencers to them to handle we did [Music] [LYRICS: did they never but they slip it they scream as if they were being born but parts there and it certainly doesn't sound like because in fact only the vocal and the guitars are track was used with a synchronising timecode from memory Performer, and that was playing all the electronic percussion, the synth bass, the makes for quite a serviceable track. It lacks and although we tried to do this kind of thing figure out what we were doing wrong or what we the people we were listening to. These were synth they programmed everything up, synchronised it for stuff that had to be real. Or so we thought. on West End Girls is played. Not only that but the the early Depeche Mode bass is played, and so the about it years later, and I couldn't understand when you could program the bass and you needed that? Why would you go through the hassle of the actual synth bass on West End Girls was a bit drop in after drop in, take after take, to get it why don't you just program it in and sync it up? for synth bass if you can it turns out playing it to the next level. Of the two reasons that I'm all the way back to a famous band from the 70s Edwards He's probably the most sampled bass player called Good Times which has been sampled again Rapper's Delight by Sugarhill Gang, countless Queen's Mega hit Another One Bites the Dust which, very very heavily from it. Edwards was a master notes against the rhythm letting some of them or muted and the end result is that elusive thing vanilla track and a hit. So the fundamental point comes to synth bass, try to perform if you can, that you can't quantise your performance. If you kind of grid or against some transient, move them much with note length because that's where a lot perform don't program' is note length control, I call 'timbre control'. Even mono synths, crude to velocity, you could still change the way by riding the filter. But by the 80s you had a least when you hit the note hard or soft it would that. I think the best example of a bass synth is my favourite bass synth patch from that period is down in that rack. And a very famous patch [Music] Or does it? Because it can also sound like this. Notice that when I went [Music] involuntarily I hit that note harder. And that's though it's a very famous bass patch I hear where it's obviously programmed because it goes The amount of timbre control you can get into bass ordinary part into something that's completely now respond in real time just like Bernard Edwards it builds your bass playing can build, even it differently, slightly different note that's the second reason why it's a great idea just straightforwardly programming it. Those two of timbre. And if you get this kind of stuff right base part, and potentially take quite a vanilla and emotionally connect with your audience and they have hand played so many of their base parts, music is a bit like dancing about architecture. demonstrate what difference playing a synth bass And to do that I'm just going to throw some chords resemblance to West End Girls is of course purely now. And the first thing I'm going to do is throw some chords together in 10 or 15 minutes certainly sound a little bit like it. So there's track one of the sequencer just coming straight shaker part that's quite authentic. So I'm going different shakers, and I'm going to combine them it and let me just program them in. So the first after it, and the third one is a 16th after that. on track two which is where I normally put it. scroll through and find the snare I like, one of and four. It's already sounding pretty good. Now and I'm also going to use this for a gate for one do it in a classic 80s programming way which up the rim shot on the 909, hang on, there we bar but with a bit of extra variation, normally an 80s percussion key. Pet Boys typically metal hits or go-gos. Stock Aitken and Waterman As did Trevor Horn who for Frankie Just fiddling about here. Just getting this rhythm key you find that your fits in with it. So often it's not so you change the feel of the entire song. Oh yeah. That 'da-da-da-da-da-da-da' is very There's no swing on this but it really starts to smash together and sort of counter pump against Well let's keep going and I'm just going to put entire track but just for a little bit of a lift. and then open on the off-8s. They need to I do dawlessly is very much using the actual the inputs of my interface. So let's just listen move on. I think it is. Okay so now let's do the this backbeat. Now I've got my midi rigged up so actually triggering about four voices from two this. I'd always, when it came to multiple pad reason is that each voice has a slightly different this for Speedrun if nothing else it's perfectly It sounds really nice, very full. Okay, there's the part. And now it wouldn't gates. So I'm actually only gating one of straight off the rhythm key that we established I mean that that rim pattern sort of fits got hardly any parts and no bass it's already Just a couple of cords at this stage. fill in in the usual way that I've which is I'm going to use track three on my and then only in the final bar I'll put my certainly at this stage which is sort of a production after I've tracked it into the Ah, I think we have a problem with our pad first chord was early and therefore is only triggered in the initial entrance. So I'm just And that isn't fixing it. This a soft metronome and I haven't set my metronome So I need to get the cord right. There you go. Okay so there's clearly something wrong with Let's see if that's fixed it. Yeah, it has. it slightly late and then I let the quantize the quantize couldn't bring it forward. And I didn't get that bass note right. The bass There we go. I'm sure that's right. No? Okay, it's not my day is it. Gonna All right so I'll do it again and I'll sarcastically late. It's like a 16th late. Yeah, in. Oh the joys of working dawlessly. All right so because I'll just chain some things together. timbale hit! Okay. [Music] So the same chords Felt nice. Check the timing, yeah to put the bass notes under But now let's put some proper Pet Shop Boys chords Boys than that, all those diatonic 7th chords. please see my 335 part video series 'How to hope to get it finished before 2035 so please quantising pads is fine. I really want to necessarily take all of these shortcuts. But 10 to 15 minutes I think it's legit. Right, Apparently I'm on the Proteus Phantazia ripoff of the D-50 Fantasia patch. It's not are. I've just changed over to my magic And that relentless backing, and snare, and that nice fill there, it's all so far. Just passed the ten minute mark. So like this quickly but you know one ssure multiple parts that you can mute and unmute, stick So all very satisfactory. [Music] So that's the programming done at I can show you the profound difference between bass that's performed. So the bass sound that [Music] Which is a pretty great bass sound. So I'm not playing exactly the West End but it's highly derivative. [Music] So now I'm the method I've always used for this is you you change the notes. Otherwise you just go crazy. Not quite, nearly. There we go. That's the is a trick I used to use a lot in the stuff into sequencers. But of course [Music] I'm just fixing the notes. And definitely a mood. You know this sort of every-note-is-the-same-length, But it's not emotional enough, and it's as what we'll end up. I'm going to fix the note what I would have done. In many ways it actually the utterly robotic feel. There were some amazing this. So 'Technique' by New Order for example. All think of it as an instrument and imagine that then obviously that human being would be and dynamics of the music changed. And you is a limit to the amount of emotion that parts. And you can hear that it sounds a little My timing is going to be a little off because bounce to it. And the reason why I'm muting demonstrate to you that, as the intensity of nice and sort of pulled back there. Using the Apologies for not particularly keeping that changing as the music changed, like being in don't play like [Music] that because it won't won't cut it. You know getting that bounce on the very difficult to program. Because what the tension. But look, what if you are not a a technique. Let's listen. [Music] Okay, want to get more emotion into it, you is I'm going to play but I'm just going Now even that single note sounds programmed part. It It just fits a lot better. You can quantise it if you couldn't comes from the note length and by a human. And now you can go in and So there are many, many ways in which, you can inject humanity into your playing and snare. So even though all I was really capturing I quantised the note starts, you can still see 120, 112, 97, so you can hear I'm sort of tapping Note length will be also very a my sequencer without exporting the MIDI if you think about it in terms of a take, you again. And that's not really going to take you takes to get really good programmed stuff anyway. It's amazing how good that sounds It just sounds so special doesn't it. to feel that they have to be able to Speaking of 'Round and Round'. Because if you can't do that that's totally and emotion by using yourself to actually input if you're only capturing velocity information note length. Look I spent a long time in the whilst I got the part that was in my head, it years later when I realised that what my heroes and then that's what I did, that I realised how easy to get the bounce, get the tension build, up with a part that's so good that it can be from from the kick and the snare. Sometimes if kick. And that was nothing I'd really experienced said which is 'If you get the bass and the snare foundations for your song. Put as much fancy stuff over.' And so thinking of the bass part as being more special than simply programming and programming on the daw, or whether you're That can be done but I don't think it's good I would describe is emotional synth pop, playing all those sequences together that I did earlier warts and all, there won't be any editing for this [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] If you want to hear more stories about 80s applied in real time to actual music, please you next time. I have no idea what's on track