Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more This time, it's beaches, enjoying a cultural Thanks for joining us. Tiny Slovenia, is one of Europe's most unexpectedly Located where the Germanic, and Slavic worlds come together, We'll enjoy and lively cafe culture row to a church-capped island, explore the Julian Alps, descend into and sunbathe with slavs but inviting Slovenian coast. During most of the 20th century, the other side of what was As Yugoslavia broke up into Slovenia became independent We begin in the capital city, After relaxing at Lake Bled, and the historic We end at the Adriatic Ljubljana feels small. It is, with only about But it's by far its cultural capital, to kick off any A fortress has capped since Roman times. As if turning its back on the city playfully straddles Ljubljana is laid-back, the kind of place where seem elegantly atmospheric In its relaxed it seems all roads Fancy facades ornament daily life Centuries of rule under the German-speaking seems to have both inspired an appreciation and strengthened The statue of France Preseren, reminds locals that are both distinct The Triple Bridge -- where the town square is both a popular meeting place and a beloved symbol The bridge seems That's because the architect is midway between and the city itself was a bridge between the Italian The riverfront market where big-city Slovenes enjoy buying directly Over time, friendships with their In this tiny country, everybody knows each other. Some farmers still use from their garden patches. The market is to connect with the locals. -&quot;Dober dan.&quot; -Um, cherries? Um, half kilo. How do you say -&quot;Pol kilo.&quot; &quot;Pol kilo.&quot; Our farm, yes. They are fresh. Yes, they're very good. These scales allow double-check the arithmetic, just in case. Habsburg days left locals &quot;trust is good; Half a kilo -- The market's is designed to link It feels made-to-order enjoying a drink Nearby, vintners proudly These wines, are considered some of the country's best. Perhaps Ljubljana's is simply strolling and sitting in an outdoor cafe to watch the stylish Slovenes As home to the country's youthful Ljubljana is busy with students. An earthquake It was rebuilt and art deco styles the empire's capital Ljubljana remains of engaging architecture. This striking building an ambitious local architect, hoping to forge a uniquely Slovenian style. But the big name and urban design Like Gaudi shaped Barcelona Plecnik shaped Ljubljana. He lived in the early studied in Vienna, and had his greatest in his hometown. Prolific Plecnik his hometown with classical-meets-modern style. Along with the Triple Bridge Plecnik's brilliance the ability to connect Ljubljanans to their is evident in his Because he loved his town, walked to work each day, what he designed, particularly thoughtful aesthetics, nature, and people's needs The house of Ljubljana's an unassuming street, but behind the gate, the creative world Guides, passionate give meaning to his home. Guide: So this is where he worked, So, his bed, right next Yes, absolutely. And a single bed? No, he was married But on the other hand, on the top of Some kind of a muse, But if you you will see there personal objects -- for example, his hat. He was famous He was always wearing it and always So Plecnik is very important Absolutely. He left such a strong mark, but definitely in Ljubljana, because all and river accesses And his heritage as the people That is the most important. All the bridges are crowded, and the architecture really If this city works for its it's at least in part In Slovenia, so small and so virtually every sight is within an We're headed north, Our first stop is the country's Since the Habsburg days, this is where Slovenes whether kings or cousins, to show off their [ Bell ringing ] The castle is striking, as are the views Lake Bled retains an aura Slovenes are particularly fond The decadent kremsnita artfully and vanilla custard between Lake Bled's iconic island is Romantic pletna boats, ferry visitors back and forth. Locals still build with larch wood from father to son There's no keel, work hard to steer with each stroke. The island has been a special Ninety-nine steps lead from and the Church [ Bell ringing ] A local superstition this bell three times, While no motorized the tranquility of Lake Bled, it does have its Bled is the rowing capital Crews stroke rhythmically merging natural and human grace. Strolling the three miles visitors enjoy Also enjoying dramatic mostly from the 19th century. My favorite was once of Yugoslav Marshal Tito. Slovenia was one of united to make Yugoslavia, basically from just after Tito, a larger-than-life, was the one leader able to hold When Tito ran Yugoslavia, he huddled with from Indira Gandhi to Kim Il-sung, right here. After Tito died in 1980, into a classy hotel, a James Bond ambience. In this high-end suite, sleep in the dictator's bed. And visitors can use for something I bet sending an email. Here in what was a mural survives, After the Nazis and took over their country, of Yugoslav patriots, charismatic commanders, Vastly outgunned, eventually defeating Tito and his partisan army booted the Nazis That's why, unlike his Tito could and did independent from the USSR. My friend and Slovenian tour to help sort out I find this propaganda I can see how it would make Yeah, this is a very typical It was all over and if you look at you can see the proud workers, you can see them with shovels, see here the true representative carrying a child But still, you know, it's a but it was so We were never inside That's why maybe the faces So how was communism from all the communism we Well, we chose our way, and it was a lot different. Like, we could travel, and there were jobs Social system was good. Tito had some magic ability Well, probably his was that he was a mix that included Yugoslavia. His mom was a Slovene, and his wife was a Serb, true Yugoslav there was. Today, are you happier with I will say I was happy a part of Yugoslavia, in European Union This land has seen but one thing that's constant of its people. This is my mom and dad. -&quot;Dober dan.&quot; Nice to meet you. Tina's having us over -Thank you. -Saso, Saso? -And... Anze! Uh-oh, little Anze's in bedtime than us. While grandma and grandpa Tina and Saso are giving us They converted the attic creating plenty of space Tina: Here we are. Rick: Whoa, this is When you come in, you don't Saso: It doesn't show from the You wouldn't know, looking up here. It's a secret compartment With grandma Built-in babysitter. This is This is where we spend This is very comfortable Above grandma and grandpa's. Now, I still can't get over that, in America, there's a stigma still with their mom and dad, Saso: That's the usual thing around here. All right, and this is -Anze. The room is soon going to which is due in In four months? Anze will have a roommate, While the two families they share lots of dinners, and the hearty local food for a lively conversation. This is very interesting to me, I would think about in Germany but we're right in the middle, And how does that We are punctual when we will be on schedule when we but we can also be mellow about If you're angry, We would curse, -In Slovene? What would I would say, &quot;may you be That's your worst? &quot;300 hairy bears.&quot; This would -300 hairy bears? That's worse than [ Laughter ] Gorazd, you grew up Are you nostalgic No, no, not nostalgic, than in former Yugoslavia. There in there were good things Maybe one of was for young families, they can get a job. Bad things about Yugoslavia there was no for good workers -- the wage was all the same. So Yugoslavia was good It was good for And today, capitalism good for good workers. It's good, yeah. There's really no better than enjoying a meal This northwestern within yodeling distance is crowned Exploring you get the feeling Valleys that just were industrial wastelands [ Bell ringing ] Villages gather around amid rich farmland. The unique roofed hayrack as part of In this unpredictable climate, These Alps, with their bring to mind Italy's Dolomites Like the more famous Alps the Julian Alps are busy with nature-lovers In the center of this region Slovenia's symbol Locals claim that until you've Vrsic Pass, which comes was originally It was built during by 10,000 Russian In 1916, an avalanche thundered killing hundreds This little Russian chapel, built where the final offers today's visitors to those who made this At the crest of there's snow even The road switchbacks down into Springy suspension bridges The Soca continues deeper and deeper Tiny bits of limestone, of sawdust around here, the brilliant blue skies its rich turquoise color. While the valley is a favorite it has its dark side. This was the scene of some of the fiercest fighting With over a million casualties, it was nicknamed This peaceful river valley was or the Isonzo Front Before independence, Slovenia was part of In 1915, neighboring Italy They quickly took this valley, high into these mountains, fended off ten bloody, The Kluze Fort keeps vigil of the valley, through Slovenia, The Austro-Hungarians knew could break through it was a straight shot But the Soca Front and many of the defenses Every ridge was strategic, was actually done high, way up on the frigid The defenses included a web of the tops of the mountains. A museum in the town of Kobarid and humanizes the suffering but almost forgotten This was unimaginably waged in the harshest Trenches were carved into and many ill-equipped During one winter alone, some 60,000 soldiers Just above town, a somber was built in the stern It memorializes 7,000 Italian The poignant reality -- fade into the history books, A short drive takes us into Slovenia's Karst region -- a high, fertile, In this land of stout hill grapes for the full-bodied thrive in the iron-rich soil. Since the limestone upon which is easily dissolved by water, a vast network of caves The most dramatic cave Visitors begin by seeing in a series of large caverns. Guides tell the story as, stalactites grow from to mighty sequoia-like In the grand cavern, the sound of a mighty river Chiseled into the wall, of century-old trails of tourism here. It's a world where &quot;Wizard of Oz&quot; monkeys could Crossing a breathtaking 150 feet above the torrent in Slovenian engineering. The cave finally widens, sunlight pours in, like lost creatures into a lush canyon. Nearby, wedged into another one of Europe's most There's been a castle here The mouth of the cave for some feudal lord to stick This version dates from While there's little the castle makes an ideal spot and a great capper for While neighboring Croatia Slovenia enjoys of Adriatic seafront. That's about one inch Its best stop -- Many Adriatic towns by tourists and concrete, but Piran has and in remarkably while holding Crowded onto the tip of its The main square was once until it began they had to fill it in. A colorful mix of work fill today's harbor. These days, Piran's walls rather than defensive, and the town is simply an Explore the evocative Hike up to the cathedral. Scale the Venetian-style On top, catch your breath by enjoying views of Piran and nearly the entire [ Gulls squawking ] The traffic-free harbor front, is made-to-order for a stroll. Swimmers frolic while sunbathers claim more than Piran clusters around Piazza Tartini. As with most towns it was long ruled and retains its In fact, the town's officially Today, the square is enjoyed by savoring the good life where the Slavic world, and the Mediterranean This fascinating and offbeat example of the continent's I hope you've I'm Rick Steves. Man: How did that go? Man: Don't stick [ Laughter ] Man: No pinky. Rick: This time, And enjoying a little Thanks for joining us. Man: Okay, go. [ Laughter ]