Imagine you're leading a game of 20 questions you chose You have to keep answering yesses and nos consistent with all your previous questions that's what the entire universe is doing of something good before we run out of questions. Scientists are fairly attached to the idea the realist viewpoint: that there's an objective of our subjective experience of it. That seems well. But take this viewpoint to the extreme detached observer of the world, capable of ever disturbing it. But then came the 20th century, and quantum does the act of measurement profoundly influence can't even assign physicality to the world "no phenomenon is a phenomenon, until it charge with this observer-dependent view, of quantum mechanics, which insisted that through the act of measurement. Others were universe, including Albert Einstein himself. founders of quantum theory before, and of come back to. Today I want to begin a discussion say that the universe exists not so much in solely in the mind of the observer, but rather To give a better sense of why we need to go let's review some quantum weirdness. We'll cat thought experiment, devised by ardent absurdity of the Copenhagen viewpoints. We killed or not killed by a random quantum process. cat is in a twin state of both alive and dead states. Or so quantum mechanics seems to suggest. so-called Wigner's friend extension, where the first, rendering both cat and first scientist the cat get to observe its own state? Perhaps superposition, The heart of the problem was a simple question: in defining reality, how is it possible for reality? the spectrum. For example, the Hungarian physicists down on the observer-centric view, in which reality. Others found schemes by which a real, the behavior of the wavefunction, such as collapse interpretations. Still others sought sort of selection bias - for example, Hugh the ideas of quantum decoherence. And then interpretation of quantum mechanics, in which and to "shut up and calculate". In the end, most physicists took that advice. them and get on with the job of actually using But a very select few physicists refused to Wheeler, a prolific physicist whose students and Kip Thorn among others. Wheeler was never quantum interpretations. Although he started that the observer must in some way be fundamental. And yet he couldn't accept what he saw as in which the observer was in a sense the primary After decades of thought, Wheeler came to "it from bit." In his words, "Every even the spacetime continuum itself -- derives entirely... from the apparatus-elicited answers In other words, he came to believe that the Wheeler felt that reality must have its primary existence observation, but rather in the connection that led Wheeler to his view is his delayed-choice experiment. Here's one example of this. - a semi-reflective mirror that has a 50-50 If we add a pair of detectors we see that or detector 2, revealing whether it was transmitted I said that the quantum world appears to live In this case, quantum mechanics states that transmitted and reflected until we make an We can see this if we add a second beamsplitter which path brings the photon to detectors a photon and detector 2 never does. Why? Well the same time, then the combination of phase wavefunction to perfectly line up in detector cancel out in detector 2 - destructive interference pair of "possible photons" had to travel This was called the delayed choice experiment could be put in place only after the photons their decision of a path to take. This experiment, been performed. They seem to verify that the of all possible states until the measurement can be made after the superposition is formed. in a profound way on the choice of measurement. Here's another experiment. If we measure particles - the choice of the direction of influence on its partner, even if that partner is side of the galaxy. We've talked about this So it seems that when you interrogate the on the questions you ask. Wheeler became convinced way creates reality. To help explain what he meant, Wheeler invented In the usual game, someone, let's say Alice, asks yes/no questions to narrow down the possibilities the object that Alice had in her mind from But Wheeler's version is a little different. and it works like this. Unbeknownst to Bob, with. Instead, she answers the quest ions according to some secret pattern. Every answer even if Alice still doesn't know what the Let's say the rule is that Alice will answer question. So Bob asks, "is it smaller than "no." This line of questioning has narrowed But had Bob reversed the order of the questions trees and T-rexes. And depending on Alice's looks like Bob's choice of question influence are helping reality define itself on the fly. Wheeler came to the view that the universe in which the reality we observe is the only asked of it by all observers. The universe, "self-excited circuit." The relationship (the universe) brought *both* into existence. of the Strong Anthropic Principle: The only observers whose questions can make that reality Wheeler called this the "participatory universe." giant "U". On one side of the U is the of the U gets thicker, until we reach the here symbolizes the observer. All the astronomers aimed back at the Big Bang. Their observations *now* cause the Big Bang "the past has no existence except as it now can have a real existence. As I warned, this all sounds very mystical. that conscious minds have direct power over of quantum woo. But the role of consciousness He said "About no feature of "It from bit." After all, information implies a thing entities can, in a sense, know something if inside their being somehow. He also once wrote distinction between the probe and the probed" So "Observation" could well be code for particles bump together and become entangled seems a little vague and wishy washy, it's thinking and writing about and trying to solidify In John Archibald Wheeler's version of an - the bits - resided in the answers elicited the comforting ground of realism from under ideas and put them back on firm ground. It's "informational" without altogether giving realism" we have things like quantum bayesianism the universe emerges from the information each other. Crucially, these acknowledge the observed, while still allowing that there's talk about these ideas soon, in our long quest need to keep asking the right questions of Hey Everyone. Before we get to comments, we in with all of you to see what episode ideas to explore, and what ideas you'd like us great information, we've set up a very very your ideas and thoughts and if you have a Thank you! It may be that we live in a participatory Or that could be complete nonsense. But I is generated by participation of its observers by the participation of our wonderful supporters special thanks to Mark Evans, who's supporting a universe or a show about the universe, every nor itsy about your generosity. Thanks for Today we're going to look at your comments we asked: Where is the center of the universe? actually be inside a black hole. In reference to the question "What is the asks whether a fair answer would be "It's how fair it would be, but I'm going to steal saying that the center of the universe and time in the past. So, they're fair as long point them to PBS Space Time episode for the Comrades of Peristanom asks if the geometry the "temporal shape". As in does a closed one expand forever, and a flat one tend to in the good old days when we didn't have effect of gravity, then the spatial geometry everything up. The presence of dark energy a positive energy density, just like matter. a closed universe to expand forever. Thanks, Some of you asked about the possibility of the universe is a black hole. Actually, we from the cosmic event horizon even if the will lead to a disconnection in the vibrational looks like thermal radiation. That radiation the event horizon. So the horizon radiation roughly the size of the observable universe. without a universe-sized camera. It would have any effect on any sane timescale. Z argues that the universe can't be a black of our largest black holes in the our universe That would mean for the universe, for the very different physics. In a way that's hole then it formed by a different process in our universe. The gap between the masses outlier of the same process. But that's physics - general relativity permits white By the way - fun fact - if you calculate the observable universe - adding together all etc - then it's event horizon is the same too much of a coincidence, right? Well actually, universe is just below the critical mass density of dark energy. Thanks dark energy. That "coincidence" explanation still isn't that we're in simulation either. Probably.