In this video I'm building modular camper boat. It's light weight, and easy to assemble. First, I make the frame from simple construction lumber. I make the frame on top of a bathroom panel. I use bathroom panels to save on epoxy and fiberglass. These panels has a solid water proof layer on one side. I use fiberglass and epoxy only where I join the panels. More on this later in the video. The construction lumber is quite flexible so I just bend them in place with straps and screws. If I do this again I would have used thinner construction lumber. Here I'am using 48x30 mm battens, but I think 48x23 mm battens would have worked just fine. I make two of these frames. The total length is about 240 cm, and the width is just under 60 cm at the widest point. I mark around the frame so I know where to drill holes for the screws, and where to add glue. (I have also marked a center line on the panel). There are about 10-15 cm between every hole. This is strong waterpoof construction glue. I have marked the center on the frame as well, and here I align it with the panel center line. Now I add 30 mm screws in all the holes I drilled. A track saw makes cutting the panels easy. I actually prefer this over a table saw. A caulk line is very useful... When it works,... Now, I mark where to place the screws (10 cm spacing) Here I'm just putting on some screws to make it easier when I have added the glue. Rounding over the edges with a roundover bit where I'm goint to paint. Here I'm just removing some material to make it a bit easier to handle. Adding battens to the corners. Glue and screw in place. I use construction glue and Titebond 3. This is the center hull. It's made the same way as the two other, but it's 390 cm long and around 30 cm wide (in the middle). This is a scarf joint to connect the bow. I made a center line on my workbench, and marked the center on the frame to make it straight. The middle hull is longer than the panels so I need to join to panels together. I used an electric hand planer to make a scarf joint. Now I flip the panels and make them ready for glueing. I don't want them to stick to my workbench so I add some plastic to avoid that. I use a liberal amount of glue here to make sure it won't fall apart. The clamps will prevent the panels to slide around and come out of alignment. These screws are just temporarily until the glue is dry. It worked very well, and the bottom is in place. Now I do the same process for the sides. With large panels like this, it's quite hard to get it perfect. A hand plane helps getting it better. I decided to make it a bit lower, so I used a circular saw to cut the sides here. Now I flush trim the bottom to the sides, then use a roundover bit to round over the edges. Here's a neat little trick to transfer angles in difficult places. Now I can tape the angles on the bow piece. and cut them on the table saw. It would have been nicer with a narrow bow, but I did this to make more space inside. I'm using an electic planer to round over the bow. The fiberglass will not stick to the bathroom panels, so I removed it around the edges with an electric hand planer. First I used polyester and fiberglass, but it does not stick very well to plywood unfortunately. I switched to epoxy and fiberglass instead, which worked very well. I decided to make the middle hull bow more &quot;boaty&quot; looking :) Always using a liberal amount of construction glue. Epoxy would have been better of course. But I think this is good enough for this kind of boat. It's only going to be used on small calm lakes. Here I am counter sinking the screw holes and clean them with acetone. The white paint is epoxy primer that is painted over two layers of fiberglass and epoxy. I use epoxy putty over the screw holes, befor adding two layers of epoxy primer to everything. Enjoying the video so far? What about a thumbs up and subscription? :) For the cabin I use 3.6 mm plywood with a layer of fiberglass on top before epoxy primer and paint. I also added fiberglass on the bow and back of the hull. Starting to look like something. Rounding over all the edges that are going to be fiberglassed. Here I'm done fiberglassing, and putting on a coat of epoxy primer. Don't know much about boat building, but I think these are called bulk heads? Sanding and finally adding some paint. I use 50 mm EPS in the bottom to make it more comfortable (Insulation). Now it's time to make attachments for the beams that connect the three hulls. This is the deck, which is cheap 15 mm plywood. I painted it with regular latex house paint. It's done! Let's test it. I could fit it in the car alone, but it's best with some help. Alright... Let's get it on the water, and enjoy the weekend. It's extremly stable due to the width and flat bottoms. This is what life is about. I used a cheap 55 lbs thrust trolling motor with a 90 AH AGM battery. The motor was running for 4-5 hours on low speed.