Are you an aspiring print designer? Learn everything you need to know to get in this course, In this course, you will learn everything structuring your documents through choosing a color palette. You'll learn how to create an efficient work quickly. Whether you're new to design, or a to grips with designing for print, You will learn the differences between you can choose the software You'll then learn the InDesign basics you books, brochures, and more. In this course, you can look forward to different types of documents and I'll also show you how to structure layout, choose a good color palette, Last, we'll explore type hierarchy, and I'll show you how to keep engaged throughout a design project. We'll also touch on the pre-flight panel, all the different components you need to So let's get started. Hi there and welcome back to this course. In this lesson we'll take a look at Affinity Publisher. When it comes to Page Layout software's There are refined software's that will photo into books, But more importantly a good software flawlessly. InDesign is the most popular software out quickly if you're a freelancer who's just Affinity Publisher, For a single download and Affinity Publisher is from And this is the third program Affinity Publisher has an extensive You'll find anything including Apple Watch sizes to kindle and Nexus. Affinity Publisher puts web you can design not only magazines but And this is because InDesign came it was built on a different foundation. When it comes to speed, makes a lot of difference if So both software interfaces are quite functionality. If you used any of the other Affinity Affinity Designer, Affinity Publishers interface is the tools panel is positioned on panels are docked on the right. The Pages panel is on the left side which room to open up other panels There are a few options in easy to find compared to InDesign or For instance, InDesign allows Something that publisher it allows you to have as an option. In that case, you will have to go The color picker tool in this allows but also text formats. And this is a huge time saver because it And if you're working with complex then InDesign does a better job at that. Compared to Publisher. The Layers panel works a little And this panel is essential in either multilingual documents or In Affinity Publisher, the Layers panel currently working on, and When it comes to text, Affinity Publisher supports most But when it comes to paragraph and character styles, Affinity Publisher One great advantage of Affinity Publisher tools to edit images. So let's say in InDesign you have Affinity publisher you Tag accessible PDFs have more popular now, especially in Affinity Publisher doesn't So InDesign is still on top of that. So Affinity Publisher is a solid set up basic layouts or getting started as InDesign is a subscription base so at the same time it is highly So if you're a devoted InDesign user, Affinity Publisher will look a bit In my personal opinion, I started out using And InDesign works perfectly for It is also the most popular software, other designers or with a printer Now that we've looked at the comparison of with this course. In the next lesson I will show you a trival share. And I'll walk you through the important setting up a new document in InDesign. I'll see you there. Hi there, and welcome back to this course, In this course, we'll start by showing know in order to start So let's start by setting up a magazine. Head over to InDesign and Here you will find all the different previously. And then here at the top, you'll find and that will dictate the resolution that So for example, for this specific project, we want to use Print because That's the print resolution, For this lesson, we will use A4. And here I will change Change the units to whatever I am comfortable with inches and And I'll just rename this to Magazine so that way we can just Set the pages to 5, here we can change And the columns will be created within the The gutter is the space in And these columns are useful because it can help you set up your file Let's head down here. You can change the margins here, And you can unlock or lock, if you want to have equal margin Since I want only the top to be bigger, change the top, and Bleed is a term used to describe part elements that are touching So these elements extend beyond the trim, So when the magazine gets trimmed, The norm is to have a 0.125 inches that should be just enough to avoid Always communicate with your printer, because they will tell you the right The slug extends to And this is used to add a title or And of course, If you check the preview, then you'll get a quick view of what the And if we're happy with that, So let's move on to setting In InDesign, select Print. I'll name this file Trifold Brochure. So what's going to happen now that we want the trifold brochure to be, And that will be For this, And then measure the final width, To that, add 1 millimeter to allow for So in my case, And leave the height as it is. And check facing pages. Number of pages to 6. We'll leave the columns to 1, margins to 10 millimeter, bleeds to 3. And if you want to save head back up and So that way you don't have to be over again. And then if you go to the Saved tab at the So click on Create. And now let's open the Pages panel. So we're going to create And this new master will be slightly compensate for So set the width to 91, click OK. Right-click on B-Master and Make sure that Apply Master is set to Click on Use master page size. And you'll notice that pages 1and 6 So now we need to group panels 1 to 3, and And panels 4 to 6 will be To do this, head over to the Pages panel. On the main menu, And we will simply drag panel And panel number 3 to 1 and 2. And the same for 4, 5, and 6. So that configuration that you Panels 1 to 3 are the inside panels, and And now you're all set to This last part is editing the page size, So what happens once you've then you find out that maybe, or a little bit of margin on one side or That's not a problem, you can still So to change the margins and columns, Unlock Adjust Locked Content. In here you can modify things as you wish. The same goes for And then you can click OK and If you want to make the changes you can do that by going to A-Master, To adjust the layout, Here, you can change the page size. And here, you can also change, So if we doubled the bleeds, you'll be And there you go. And if you want to go back, press Cmd+Z. And that's it for this lesson. Next I'll show you three ways to create an how to set up your workspace in a way that I'll see you there. Hi there, and welcome back to this course. In this lesson, we will show you 3 Having an efficient workflow when you're working on a big project. So in this lesson, we will take having the right panels open, Let's get started. Many beginner designers don't panel in InDesign where you can set up every single thing that can make Anything from changing the units in options that can really help you make So in InDesign, head over to InDesign CC So when you get a new computer and if you're starting at a studio, Because, again, here is where you can set everything For example, here under General, you can or how you want the workspace to Under Interface, you can change how you want the panels to show up. Under Type, for example, Sometimes you will double-click to So little things like this that really Compositions, we have H and have if you are working with If you live in a different country, you might be more comfortable using And then we have even more leading if you are using your keyboard the kerning and tracking, The Baseline Shift at 1 point as well, This just allows me to be even more So there are endless, And this is probably my favorite part, And of course, you can also change how You can change the performance, So it's always good to take some time, tailor it to what you like and So I'll just make sure here that I have and the page origin to page so I'll click OK. Create a new document here. And you can already see that the the document. Now let's move on to If you go to the top right corner, you have a list of all the workspace that So depending on what kinda project you're digital publishing, it will give you So for example, we have the Essentials and CC Libraries panels. We could change this to this will give us a totally We have the Layers, And then we have a single panel here We have the Paragraph panel, Character, Character styles, Glyphs. And of course you can move if you don't really use one of them, And I like to base my workspace So delete the ones or change the order in a way that benefits I'll head over here to the top right and I'll put my name here, click OK. Let's close InDesign to make it is set to my workspace. Create New Document, and there we have it. We have my workspace already set up. Now let's move on to file organization. File organization is one of the most your projects. If you're either a freelancer or you need to keep an organized work flow. So the first two that we saw, your work space, that's a very individual. But when it comes to file organization, you might have to send these If you're working in a studio, there might be another designer that will So here, I'll start by creating And I try to keep my desktop Ideally, you would have a system how you keep them organized by date. So for example, for me, this Project for example, Laura's Studio. And that's what this Project So we start with a folder. And I've already saved the files So we have Project 1-Magazine and I'll move those two InDesign And then there are a series of folders able to keep all the linked files, the So for me, the most important If you don't have a fonts folder for folder for your computer and your fonts so Next, we need an images or JPEG folder. I like to call it Images because This is great if you're linking a lot you're working on a magazine, so that specific project that are. Next, we need a PDF folder, great for when you export documents for your client And then another problem that we have as versions of the same project. So if you are working or you'll have different iterations and As you communicate with your client, you might not need older you will need the newest ones and then The way that I like to keep it is by will be version number one, and then let's the client, then I'll create a version Then I'll move version number start working from version number two. This is also great to keep if, for then the file is damaged, then at least I can work from and I don't have to And another folder that I think is really Clients will usually make So you download that file, From Client and then you proceed And like I said, every designer has You have to find something that works for But whatever that is, make it consistent because you don't So now that we've looked at the ways we're ready to move on to the next lesson to create an amazing layout. I'll see you there. Hi there, welcome back to this course. In this lesson I will show you We will talk about master pages, how you how to overwrite masters, and So we'll start by setting In InDesign, head over to the Pages And the first thing that you want to do, is to set up folios and page numbers. So, using the text tool Right-click &gt; Insert Special Character And I'll just put Magazine Name here, that way you can see it. Now, I'll duplicate it So, if we go back to our normal Each page now has a page number. Let's go back to A Master, And now let's say that since the folio And I want to change make sure that you Head over to Layout &gt; Margins and Columns. And here I'll show you something neat. I want all the margins to be the same, but in doing so, I want to adjust, So, check the Adjust Layout option. You'll notice that because the text box is too small. So, I want the font size that will change And you can also set up a font limit, so if you don't want it to go under Here you can add or take columns out. And of course, change the margins. And if you are not happy with that, But here, we want to change the margins. So, I'll go back here, and set the margins to 30 millimeters, I want the gutter to be 10 millimeters, And the page number looking a little And I want it to be Make sure that you have And that will help you snap If you are working on a magazine, you might want to have a body copy text So, go back to master, I'll have content here Let's say Delete this content. Now, let's go back to our normal pages. And you can see the outline here. Go back to A Master. I'll lower the text boxes and And before we move on, So, it's always useful to have a background layer that you can hide and So, for And if I head over to the normal pages, that's because it is So, we can hide and show. Let's go back to A Master and delete it. Now, you see that it's also So, if you want to activate these start adding content, press And then you'll be able to So, here, for instance, And because these text boxes are threaded, And the same for the following pages. Let's say you want to work For that you need to change So, press Shift+Option, select the folio. Select the background layer, so And because the folio is you can change the color easily. Activate the rest of the textboxes, And the same here, Covers don't usually follow the same So, we'll select everything, select everything and Delete. And there you have it, that's how you That's how you set up your master pages, the columns and adjust the layout to that. So, now that you have the structure we're going to move on into color palette. In the next lesson I will ways of choosing a color palette. I'll see you there. Hi there and welcome back to this In this lesson will show of choosing a color palette. Choosing a color palette there are a number of tools that we can So let's start with the first one, This is a tool that InDesign added. Not too long ago, I've already downloaded an image from by going to photos and They have a great library So for sure you'll find So let's grab the file And the color theme tool is So hold a click there to So color theme tool. Then click on image and So you can already see how you have Ideally you would need that can work as a background. Two medium light colors, We have a button here to add I'll head over here to the Swatches panel. In here I have Colorful _Theme. The second way is the Adobe Color Wheel. So this works the same way as And basically, you have all you select the main color, so the rest of And then you can move Then, of course, you have to custom one You can say this to my library save, and it's ready to be used. Another option here they also So we'll drop the image here. And the neat part of this is the five colors that we have here so and it will show you where Or you can select None and And if we just quickly The color theme tool, it'll give us the same options as well, not the one where it's custom, Next we have the Explore page. And of course, here you can type the different colors. So this is how you choose a color palette, you'll notice that three colors should be Because that will give you a range that Five, I would say is the most that you struggling as to where you can use. Let's say the lightest shade or the medium five, and something that takes all Now that we've covered how In the next lesson we'll cover everything basics of type settings and Hi there and welcome back to this course, Let's be real, technology is so And in this lesson, we'll cover better typographic choices, and We'll cover type hierarchy, I'll show you how to use paragraph you'll work more efficiently. Let's take a look. Let's start with font pairings. Font pairings is one of those things that find something that works. And if you know the type categories, We have some great articles at Envato the font categories. In essence, And if you head over to Envato Elements, they already have these categories on the So it's Serif, Sans Serif, Script and So if you're looking for you can check one of the categories and You can also choose depending on the size So the more you'll learn about typography, meant to be used as body text because I've already chosen a few fonts I can better explain how to pair fonts. Addington is a Serif font which is Next, we have Sans which is a Sans Serif. This font can also be used for Next, we have Bouchers Layer Duo. And this is more of a decorative font so It is a Sans Serif but because it has different So display fonts, like I said, if you're working on a restaurant menu, the name of the restaurant Because you're not using it in a long a few words. And the same goes for Bouchers Script, so Of course, these two fonts are created And it's great to have something using Bouchers Layer Duo or Addington and RNS Sanz are a great pair very elegant and very readable, You can use RNS Sanz as a headline and Another great way to find great pairings search for font duo. So some designers have already For instance, we have Jacksons Font Duo with a Sans Serif, it looks very elegant, And then we have Ripon, it will look great as a magazine opener. So the trick here is to not use So don't pair a Serif with a Serif, a Sans Serif with a Script or Handwritten. Next, let's take a look at Type Hierarchy. So typographical hierarchy is very know what to read first, And it will also help you divide the what you want the reader to read first. Here I have an example of type So at the very top we the headline should be the larger The headline should be catchy, not a full sentence. So that way the reader, they can just pick it up really quickly. Under the headline we have the deck, the deck can be used to add You can use a Sans Serif or a Serif, here the deck is set at 30 points and Under the deck, we have a credit line and giving credits to the author of And only if we can use we can still create something different So for example, on my credit lines, I prefer to use all caps because But I'm also using it at 14 points bigger than the copy. Next, we have the actual body copy. And the body copy I've set it to Addington 10, sometimes 8 depending on the font, On the second column, I have a Pull Quote. Pull Quotes are great to I've set this one at 24 points and It is smaller than a deck but width-wise it still gives me a few Because I don't want only I want a good amount of words that The purple frame on the second under it I have a caption. I use RNS Sanz for Sans Serifs are very readable at smaller And 8 point is not too small but it's still a good size to So now that we have all of our we can start setting up paragraph styles. Paragraph styles are a great way to work with a long publication like a magazine. Once you learn how to work it will really help you So for instance I have the spread type hierarchy, and So I'll head over to Window &gt; Styles our type hierarchy already set, we can For example, I want the headline the deck I want it to be on Sentence Case. I know I wanted credits to be all caps, I want the copy to have the first line before each line so you can see how So let's head over to InDesign CC let's make sure here that we And here on the Preferences, I can to 0 at the top of the page, click OK. And if we zoom in here, you will see all and that is called a baseline grid. Baseline grids are grade to align the text different columns. So that way, the lines of text are going So let's select everything here, at the bottom, You will notice that every line of text If you head over here to the top and you'll notice it doesn't move. The reason it doesn't move is because we a baseline grid. So the algorithm of the program is only use the baseline grid option. But if you put it to 0, So you can see now every line So now to continue setting I want to add a drop cap right here. A drop cap is used for the reader to There's no rule as to what kind of you can choose any style you want, Okay, so we have everything set now. Open the character styles panel, and I want to set this character style So select the Drop Cap, double click, Here you can double check for I'll click OK. And now let's head over The easiest way to do this is by select the text that you want Add a new paragraph style. So the name, it's always good check that you have the right settings. And since this is a Drop Cap style, Nested Styles, We want it to take four lines and Click OK, and So click on this first line here, it'll instantly apply the style, perfect. Now, I need to set a regular copy. So I'll click here, add a new style, copy, And you can continue to do the same for This is the fastest way to of the other articles that For example, here I'll add some text and I can apply any of Another benefit to using paragraph to change the style of the font or you can open the Style and This change will only apply to And the last tip is basic typesetting, more important the longer If you're working with a brochure, But if you're working on a magazine, important because then it defines how much So for me, something useful to open is the here we can measure the number of So usually, you would have between 70 and 80 characters in a line for Let's measure here a couple and 75 so the column width here is okay, The info panel can also give you paragraphs if you select all When I'm typesetting texts, I like to So what happens here is, if you're the software is going to use to break the syllables in each words. For me, I prefer using Adobe single algorithms at all, so it gives me So for example here, I'll select a few I can fit more words or to get rid Rule of thumb is not to have two line to line. And also the goal is to not have a weird because that can distract the reader and A lot of designers prefer using the If you're using this, j violations which is the hyphenation and And if you remember, you can set So if you have this option activated, the lines that are violating You'll notice that there's some some of it that is really strong. So the ones that are really strong the values. So for me, those will be the ones And a way to fix it is by either notice that in some lines if you tighten So there are way too many And when you get into even more detailed problems like rivers, which is You'll come across orphans and widows and then you'll have to start Orphans are lines that begin at And widows are the last the beginning of the next column or page. So the longer your text is, Because you want your text to look the reader to have a good experience and In the next lesson, I will show you importing images, I'll see you there. Hi there and welcome back to this course. In this lesson I will show you the three going to import images into InDesign. So let's say you have and now you need to Many designers neglect this part, you are working on a magazine and send this PDF to your client, and But then you get a surprise after printing they don't look the same. That's because we forgot to convert and that can get very, very costly if you a whole editorial project. I want to open this image the important part here is to check for I want to transfer this from RBG to CMYK. So head over to Image&gt;Mode&gt;CMYK Color, Next we want to check for the resolution. If you acquire a lot of images online, they will unfortunately 72 is only for screens. If you want to print an image, This image is from Envato Elements, so they already know that we as designers And that really dictates So this is already set to 300 DPI. Of course if you were using it for That's not a problem. And then the image size will go smaller, which is really helpful if you So let's put this back to 300 and So for me, that's how I save all my files, when I've already converted That means R for revised. Click Save, back to InDesign. Make sure that you're selecting place it into InDesign, and resize. Head over to the Links panel, And this is useful if you have already you want to quickly check So here I can see that the format is JPEG, perfect, Actual PPI 300, and then we'll go here, lower, So the scale is 50%, that means that we're so half the size that it So if I want to make this bigger, And now, I'm using it at 100%. You can also check that here at the top. Now let's say I make this bigger, and we can already see this An image can be used up to 120%. Ideally, you should keep it under 100, So I want to go back to a couple about file organization. Another great advantage is to the image that you're using in the changes that you make on that image So for instance, and let's say I want to change the color, because we have a layer on top, So I'll put R version 2, TIFF, click OK, head back into InDesign, So let's do our usual links check, CMYK, 300 DPI, 52%. So let's say that the client wants a they want a totally different color. I'll open the TIFF file, Close Photoshop, you'll notice this warning symbol Double-click on that, and So this is a great way to handle an image file especially if you will So now that we've covered all the we'll touch on how to create In the next lesson, I will show you five interested in your layout. I'll see you there. Hi there and welcome back to this course, Now that we've covered all of the elements print design project, it is time to get In this lesson, we'll take a look at a few will keep your readers engaged and So first up is keeping it simple. So, in the 1950s and the Swiss Style came into full And this style really which allowed hem to create really not only that but they gave us a really good visual break So, for instance, this 50th design heavily uses a grid to organize So, that's the one good thing At the very top, we have the headline. And then at the very bottom, we have So, for example, here is an exhibition. So, on the last line we have In the second last line we people would need in order to attend it. In this poster I used only one font, clean. And then I left the middle part for And that's what I wanted I wanted them to be able to know which is the anniversary And then head over to the headline and then they could read the rest of So, keeping it simple is not always give us a good break from all of the other And this is something classic, The second way to create impact in your If you're designing a business card, using full-bleed images It causes so much impact, if they're going through a magazine and like this one that we have You can use a full-bleed Here I'm using it on one page. The image is also crossing That gives us the opportunity to not horizontally but also give it a different An image like this takes a lot of real it also creates a bigger So, if you happen to be working with images. Or if you are using and Envato Elements, take advantage of that and Next step is layering elements. And now we're moving away a little bit on the first example. When I was a beginner designer, And quickly I learned that there Creating depth in your design So, for instance, you can use drop but I still like the flat look, By layering elements you also interact with each other and a different kind of texture that In this particular magazine cover, I use the name of the magazine And then I chose to use white to also the image that I'm using. I'm also using a Sans Serif which makes the style where it says The Discovery So, you have to weigh their pros and what kind of colors you can use On the left side, I chose to keep it simple as well, This is a great segue to go into the next So, changing the type direction in your add more movement. Not only that, but you can also use type eyes somewhere else. On this spread I was using photos of you climb vertically. So, that was the inspiration I used it on the left side as and then I used it on the second page too. Also, I tried to mimic columns by This particular spread was created for So, we wanted to go all out. And even if it was created for a course, And last we have go all out experimenting. So, once you've learned all the rules of the box a little bit and experiment and There are so many ways that you can using a simple image and just applying You can use analog materials, paste things with your hands David Carson was a big fan of doing this, Chris Ashworth is another designer also likes to experiment outside of that, For this particular poster, I used a front from Envato Elements So, that was a great way for use something a little bit different For the background, I used the brush And this image is actually a statue, then I close-cropped it, and moved So it looks like there is And then I added a little bit of noise on the actual image to create depth. You will notice that the layout of I have the title at the top, the location but I tried to spice it up a little bit Not only on the stages, but also on the website, and the address. So, you can experiment You don't have to go all out crazy. But just pushing a little every time you design something, Now, that we've covered all it's time to jump into So, in the next lesson, steps that you need to take in order I'll see you there. Hi there and welcome back to the course, In this lesson we will show you four steps ready for print. Hopefully this will help you avoid any process. So let's take a look. The first step is checking for When an image is touching the edge of And in InDesign a bleed guide extend it all the way up to the bleed. So, when the project is printed, you won't have any weird white edge It works as a buffer. And for instance here I have I want the orange background And here, I don't have a background, So, see this red line, We just need to make sure that all the page are actually touching the bleeds. Number two is fix preflight errors. You'll notice here in the InDesign there is a red dot and it says 1 error. You can double-click there, and that will The Preflight panel will let us know any images are missing, and any kind I have here overset text, so I'll click on that. It will take me directly It is in this text frame. So, there are a couple If I have room, If I don't have the room and but if you're working in the real you would go back to your client or And ask them if they could shorten the text in one way or another. Maybe you could use typesetting, and and just try to make the text fit. But honestly, if you have more than one In this file, And then we have no errors. Next step is checking linked images. So, I have all of my linked I have no errors. But I just want to show you what would well, what could potentially happen. I'll move this file to the side. And instantly, I'm getting an error. So, Links &gt; Missing link &gt; page 1. So, it's telling me that So, this is why I encourage images from that specific project in one So, here I'll move the image back into the And last is image sizes. So, this is just to make sure that all are not being used A neat trick here is to Select Panel Options and select Scale. In here we'll get the scale that So, you will notice that We have one image 121, which is I wouldn't go over 120. Ideally you should keep it under 100, And that's it. These are the four steps that you need especially a big file to print. As long as you check your file's going to be printed okay. Of course, Make sure that when they're looking So, now that we've checked for I'll show you how to export a file for I'll see you there. Hi there, welcome back to this course. In this lesson, I will show you how how to package a file. This is the last step we need to Head over to File &gt; Export, and here, what I want to do is change So for instance, I'll take the prefix, and leave it as I want to save this in Format, Adobe PDF Print, click on Save, So depending on your printer, they'll ask Sometimes these high quality print, I And sometimes, it will be press quality so I'll go for Press Quality, So these will be individual pages, and then the printers will Head over to Marks and Bleeds, Check Crop Marks, and that's it. Click on Export, wait for Let's open the folder, PDF. In here, So I just want to make Let's take a look. And here we have our single pages exported You can see that on the side and So what's going to happen is, the printer For example on a spread and overlap them. So sometimes a PDF can look a little bit bleed on the side, but Now let's talk about packaging a file. So packaging a file is a great You have your file, you have all of And at this point, you probably won't need any of the old files that you created This is also useful if you're and you're doing a yearly review or putting them away on In order to package a file, head over File So you want to make sure that There are 13 fonts being used, we have 13 links found, And then it says, So because this magazine was only That's why I have RGB color space. So always keep in mind that, if you're using CMYK that you Here you can go more into link and images and then click Package. We have to save the publication And now we have to choose I want to rename this package with I know what it is. And here we want to tick Copy Fonts, include an IDML file, file in previous versions of InDesign, And include a PDF Print. And here, we can select the quality Click on Package, click OK. And now our file is being prepared. Let's head over here to the desktop. And here we have our original folder and So let's see what's in it. We have our two version three files idml, We have a PDF file, which is exactly We have our document fonts, and we have Something that many designers do a different designer, or to save it for So right click &gt; Compress, and that is it. You can send this zip any other file transfer service, In the next lesson, of everything we learned in this I'll see you there. Hi there, and welcome to the last part In this video, we're going to Learning the basics of if you're starting your career as In this course, we covered everything creating an effective workspace by setting up the structure Making sure you have the right elements only make your job easier File organization is one of the most working as a freelancer. So we touched on what the essential We also talked about color swatches and these two elements can make And if you're working with templates, Typography is a big topic in design, and We managed to cover the must know rules, Working with images in InDesign your file will be printed. So checking them in Photoshop to make possible will only ensure We also covered a few ways to Following rules is good practice. But breaking the rules can help you So once you are a little bit more the boundaries little by little, so We wrapped up this course by covering when you're exporting a file, In this course, we gave you many tips work in a professional studio or as a freelancer, that will make From all of us at Envato, We hope you enjoyed it and