The Sinclair ZX Spectrum is a whopping 35 That's only 15 years away from half a century. So, although I've covered this glorious system was about 2 years ago, and frankly it deserves So here we are, at the beginning of the ZX Of course you can't tell the ZX Spectrum story Richmond, Surrey on the 30th July 1940 as William Sinclair, known as Bill. Bill Sinclair was at the time a mechanical in London assisting with the Ministry of Supply. It makes sense then, that Clive would follow Spending his younger years in the relative bombing, Clive spent his younger years enjoying unquenchable interest in learning. The Sinclair's were a frank speaking family topics he found interesting whilst negating This drive led the young Clive into mathematics system driven by punched cards. The system he built worked around a binary This was without even realising that this in the developing area of computing. As the 1950s pressed on Clive stumbled across a hobby of building electronic circuits, whilst side. Initially this included manual work, but as moved across to holiday jobs at electronic a company which persists to this day, but devices including X-ray spectrometers and It was through this work that Clive found Wireless magazine before he'd even left school, establishing his own business. Upon leaving school in 1957, Clive already Why waste time learning unnecessary information and teaching himself exactly what he needed A route that would allow him to keenly follow bloat of University. ***Clive had money to turn them into sell-able products. To finance these products, Clive's first port he continued to write freelance articles and the magazine as an editorial assistant. It seems Illness with the editorial team meant than was initially predicted, whether official advertising in the business whilst conversing James Camm. This helped solidify a reputation for himself various circuits in various issues. But Clive wanted more... His next offer came from Bernard Babani, owner write books for hobbyist engineers. At twice his salary of PS1,000, Clive jumped Transistor Receivers Book 1&quot; in January 1959, a range of other titles, with his last being in 1963. The book writing ended because in 1961 Clive the idea of creating and selling micro hi-fi at the last minute, leaving Clive in limbo. As with these things however, it was forunate, Instrument Practice magazine would create One of the companies he spoke to in his role, on their new micro-alloy transistors, but usable if a circuit could be designed to accommodate Upon producing a design for a micro amplifier for 6d each in boxes of 10,000 and sell his By this point it was already evident that designs into cost effective, elegant, solutions. Now, we could spend all day going over the here to the almighty ZX Spectrum, but already on a different road, is already heading the from this era, Alan Sugar. Each of these paths would meander out on very at a cross roads to get to our reach our anticipated things in other videos let's cover this next Sinclair's first office was at Gough Square, handled by Cambridge Consultants Ltd at 69 Wishing to stand out from the other tightly hobby magazines, such as Practical Wireless, half page blocks, promoting his new, tiny These adverts, he continually refreshed so whilst other companies churned out the same This also enabled Clive to stay ahead of the by the time anything amiss has been pointed In 1963, Jim Westwood who had been working well of Clive, applied to Sinclair for a position. Clive immediately hired him and the duo began office. Sales picked up at a rapid pace and by September brought out the Micro-injector; a square wave had moved to Anchor House in Islington and emblazoned across the company's first newsletter enthusiasts. It was from this new premesis that the new gaining wide attention and praise, both by Sinclair would move yet again to accommodate The chosen location was Comberton - just outside It's from here, where Sinclair really moved with the X-10 and really culminating in 1972 to break into the conventional hi-fi market Sugar. But this period also marked a number of other Lyndsey Lloyd and Chris Curry joined in 1966, to Sinclair, the two often found barnying of a time in the near-by Plough. By 1970 Sinclair Radionics again required Mill, in St. Ives. During their time here, the building underwent line with Clive's expectations, including if shut, you knew was completely off limits. It's this period where Sinclair really gained into the 1980s. As well as ever increasing advert sizes, including hi-fi, Sinclair was diverging into alternative This, like most of Sinclair's products, beat providing a much more compact solution that However production problems meant delays, began appearing apologising to customers for It was Sinclair's next product however which enterprise, and moved the company in a new Calculators weren't new products. They had been on the scene since the mid 60's, USA and Japan, but Clive spied a new challenge. After vising Texas Instruments, he picked to Chris Curry and Jim Westwood to turn into David Park designed a circuit which pulsed be powered by hearing aid batteries and in launched, taking the world by storm and winnning award of '73. The components for the unit cost just PS10, This was truly elegance and minaturisataion of decimal currency to the UK in February been better. Over the subsequent years, new calculator and Executive Memory models, each one taking To cope with demand, Sinclair began outsourcing somewhat tarnishing the brand. The company's turnover in 1972 was at PS762,000. By 1974, thanks to the calculators this was Sinclair was at this point investing tens this healthy income was essential. One of these lines of research had led to Released in 1976, production problems meant with reliability issues. The chips had been tested in the damp winter was rather sensitive to static, causing the Not ideal in a watch. Coupled with this, the battery performance and even explosions. Faulty products meant, lots of returns, lots company wasn't actually making any income. In April '76, Sinclair's accounts showed a research going went to the recently formed, The NEB agreed to buy a 43% stake for PS650,000, Back in '63 Sinclair had begun work on a portable At the time, the technology wasn't quite up to develop the technology and by 1977, thanks However in that time, calculator sales had to 73%, meaning Sinclair wasn't exclusively A possible solution to save the company was which Clive began work on, however the economics in order to become profitable and the NEB Another company under the NEB's wing snapped as the Newbury Newbrain. By March '79, the NED had decided that it operation. The TV was sold to Binatone and the NEB retained Thandar Electronics ltd and Clive was left of the future. But where would these visions come from?... Cunningly before the NEB arrived, Clive had company called Science of Cambridge at 6 King's find and sell local ideas. Borrowing PS500 from his father to pay the with the help of John Pemberton launched the creating a revenue of PS50,000. Curry's next product then fell into his lap Williamson had been an electronics engineer calculators had managed to develop a programmable for further funding. Clive passed the idea to Curry and a deal However supply issues with the components were able to complete an equivalent design Sinclair would later pay Williamson for documentation the Microprocessor Kit 14, as it would be his initial design. At first, Clive saw little potential in the for PS40, it sold 10,000 units in just a few This was what actually inspired Clive to attempt Radionics. But that had now been, gone and Clive was albeit, without Chris Curry. Although Curry had laid the foundations for his path. He knew he now wanted to run his own company, at Cambridge University whilst seeking ideas in mid 1979 at Market Hill. The first Clive knew about this was seeing an MK-14, with a proper keyboard, and bringing to his doorstep. With some of his previous staff now under former Radionics Mill, but were contracted It was clear in Clive's mind was the next the guise of the Sinclair ZX80. An &quot;almost&quot; fully fledged micro computer, MK-14, but which could be hooked up to a television. It seems Clive's obsession with television way to his original intentions. In May 1979 the Financial Times had written and their price could drop to around PS100 Clive had taken on this challenge and beaten in January 1980 for just PS99.95 fully assembled, The low price had been met by radical ideas, Using a domestic TV was an innovative step the Z80A microprocessor supplied by Nippon alongside the large custom ROM, with a BASIC Tiles. Specification wise, it was extremely basic ***To mark this now clear direction, Science Computers Ltd in 1980. Clive was aware of not repeating his past chew. To this end he was becoming more proficient who had been working as a consultant for Sinclair to setup a North American office to sell the He also outsourced manufacture of the units Timex in Dundee when the orders really started Quality control on this occasion meant the The machine sold reasonably well in the US Coupled with the UK success, this allowed he'd played with at Radionics... a flat screen to Sinclair Research Ltd; a name that would new, innovative, elegant products and revive The success also allowed Jim Westwood to continue had begun before the 80 was even released. The ZX81 would address the main issues with The first of which was the lack of floating was the flickering of the screen whenever The first was addressed by doubling the size and features. The second was corrected by implementing a the entire run time of the Z80 wasn't used Instead it was shared with code execution, but it looked much more pleasing to the eye. The design of the ZX81 was also much neater Whilst the ZX80 consisted of 18 discreet chips, This single chip was a custom Uncommitted many of the ZX80's components into one array. Much of this chip's design was completed by well as reducing cost, it also vastly reduced stable design. With Christmas 1980 on the horizon, rumours looking to produce a television series aimed the pun - of computer programming. It was also rumoured that they were perusing on the show; Sinclair's old design which had By this point both Sinclair and Acorn had was the Atom, and both Curry and Sinclair hadn't been considered. With pressure from both sides, the BBC re-thought manufacturers to submit proposals. Clive immediately touted the new ZX81 machine BASIC and accessories that would include a Perfect for educational use. He also tried to sell the merits of an up 9200 at this point, that may have included A idea which was maybe a little ahead of itself. However the BBC was concerned about the membrane to wait for this next Sinclair model. Chris Curry on the other hand was prepared scale and requirements, and having visited Acorn had mocked up based on their planned In spite of this setback, the ZX81 arrived some 300,000 machines had been sold worldwide. Agreements had been made to sell ZX81's in order game and directly into the high street. Sinclair also decided to fight back at the offering a half price deal to place ZX81's any BBC Micro package Acorn were offering. Although Acorn clearly had the edge in the up sales to 2,300 schools through this promotion. By mid 1982, Timex were granted rights to in America for a 5% royalty, which freed up up the growing computer operation in the UK. As well as Sinclair expanding it's production large number of cottage industries and third club, magazines, programming books and of Sinclair had setup the UK, and other parts a computing revolution. Now all that was needed was the right computer with it. ================================= The ZX82 development was no secret. It was obvious that Sinclair would be working Micro if nothing else. 50,000 ZX80's had been sold and over 300,000 next computer were laid out; At it's heart would remain a Z80A CPU clocked This seemed obvious as it allowed some of a potent CPU. Developed by Zilog, it's actually the successor Federico Faggin and incorporates 16 bit I/O control and very simple power requirements. The ROM would be expanded from the ZX81's Vickers, and allowing for a more comprehensive 16Kb of Dynamic RAM would be standard, allowing A resolution of 256x192 would be available 8 colours, and 2 shades of each, apart from Like most computers of this era, the machine colour can be changed but can't be populated The design also purposely incorporated the This was a patented method which forced a Some viewed this restriction as unfavourable colour information at a lower resolution saves games than would otherwise be the case. It also brought out the creative genius of sizing to eliminate the clash entirely. The keyboard would now offer moving elements sound. Port wise, it remains pretty basic with an 9V DC and RF output. In fact, the ZX82's specifications were in for a computer system, and even in light of offering a true upgrade to the earlier ZX Of course, to make the ZX82 affordable and the ULA would become an even more essential using twice the number of gates. For the ZX82 this ULA performs the role of governor, keyboard controller, cassette I/O It also co-ordinates CPU access to each of output is never disrupted. Richard Altwasser was in charge of this ULA television development and manufacture was Mode Logic. Interestingly, Ferranti actually made an error failing to connect some of the stages. But incredibly, a rogue piece of dust happened was supposed to be, creating an artificial the ULA one one test die. Confirming that the 5C102E design was good This compact design allowed Rick Dickinson with guidance from Clive Sinclair, and with alongside a new name for the machine that machines. The ZX Spectrum was launched on 23rd April The ZX was retained as a nod to the Z80 processor, Spectrum, of course referred to the new Spectrum Initially, both 16KB and 48KB versions were PS175 respectively and production was set Like his earlier hi-fi devices, Clive's outlook Large, expansive adverts, packed with text boggled consumers enough to be tantalised. Clive expected to sell some 300,000 units competitively priced compared to say the BBC PS399. Initial reception of the machine was fairly Technology Week noted; &quot;After using it... I find Sinclair's claim that it is the most Compared to more powerful machines, it is its BASIC limited and its keyboard confusing&quot; In part this was due to the space saving nature on the right and BASIC commands were accessed 1 byte of memory, compared to several bytes character approach. The BBC Micro had been launched in December up to acceptable levels after rushed launch. The Spectrum was set to make inroads, but somewhat limited and customers had to wait a typical Sinclair style. There were also some known issues with the It was declared that &quot;up to 14,000&quot; of them updated to 28,000 by Your Computer magazine. The fault was down to the 240V input track far too close to the 6V output, meaning that result in a shock. Nigel Searle admitted that the supplies, which in detail for safety&quot;. Amazingly Sinclair managed to turn around Which given their track record for delivery As 1982 pushed on, the Department of Trade of microcomputers in primary schools after in the year and orders for the Spectrum began their own educational software alongside Macmillan Read Series and Horizon programs. Of course, educational software aside, games machine. It's low price, sound and colour graphics like Ultimate Play the Game run by the Stamper growing industry. By February 1983, distribution of the Spectrum As well as W.H. Smiths; Boots, Curry's and Sinclair's main distributor, Prism Micros. 200,000 Spectrums had already been sold by units were being sold per week in the UK alone, system had also launched, albeit on a much Owners of 16KB models could also upgrade their machines, or RAM chip replacements on second These upgrades cost PS60 and proved fairly expansive 48KB of memory. There were of course classics such as Jetpac 48K was a no brainer. Economies of scale enabled Sinclair to lower 48K models by April, further causing upset low end games market grow before their eyes. The arrival of the Commodore 64 on UK shores and quickly reduced to PS299 did nothing to The american machines sold well, but did little ======== This rapid expansion meant that once again, destination was the previous Barker and Wadsworth Cambridge, which won an environmental award an enclosed atrium and a conversion of the control system. As usual with Sinclair, the company image shipping. January 1984.... For some of us this year might set alarm bells By now Acorn had become so fed up watching launched their own budget system, the Acorn However, production problems meant they'd and had a large stock pile of systems now For Sinclair, nothing seemed amiss as 1984 By the end of 1983, 1 million Spectrum's were cased version, their sole UK distributor, more software than you could shake a stick Their turnover for the 1983-84 financial year Very similar profits to their previous year, period. The reason for this discrepancy was in part been putting into various products, including the flat screen TV80 which launched in September The Sinclair C5, electric car; A project which was also ongoing, but Clive has siphoned this Ltd which he funded through a private share PS13M for just under 10% of his company. A figure which therefore placed the company The video game crash of 1983 felt in the United as we were in our bubble of home-bred micro But a ripple of it was starting to come into own crash were beginning to be noticed. At the start of 1984, the home micro market corner of the UK. Dragon, Newbrain, Camputers, Sinclair, Acorn also making an impact. At the same time, demand for these micros a machine meant one less buyer in the market. Of course new models and innovations were next model just didn't fill that gap effectively. Unlike Acorn, who had decided to downgrade Spectrum's rapidly filling play-field. Sinclair were still improving their technology, Spectrum owners, their next machine was designed A more serious market. The brief was simple. A machine designed for a specific gap in the to embark on computing. Thought to be a market some 10 times the size by systems costing over PS2,000. July 1983 had seen the Microdrive expansion A tape cartridge, spliced from video tape and read incredibly quick, allowing for access The Spectrum's perhipheral also added an RS232 as the ZX Interface 2, allowing ROM cartidge For the ZX83, these microdrives, allowed a without dipping into expensive floppy disk Named the QL, or Quantum Leap, this computer but was somewhat intentionally incompatible games. Clive thought that games damaged the credibility were already using the Spectrum for both business Perhaps with the kids playing games in the in the evening. Still, the launch at the Inter-Continental press attention with bulk delivery expected By May, sinclair had taken PS5M of orders was still no sign of the product. Nigel Searle's method was to fix a date and procrastination. However, in this case, the launch date was didn't limp out until September - some 7 months The machines which limped out before then an additional EPROM to be plugged into the The QL was unlikely to be a winner from the less likely. 60,000 machines were sold in the first year reaching 100,000. The Spectrum continued into 1984, as other difficulty. The QL may have failed to realise its goals, the faithful Speccy. By July Sinclair announced a PS4M Christmas was the new Spectrum+... cunningly making use of the QL keyboard design toy-like keyboard. With the +. The Spectrum was finally looking like a professional 64, BBC Micro and Acorn Electron. Not to say the original design was bad. It wasn't. But many didn't associate the design with Something our friend Alan Sugar, had already Amstrad CPC just a month prior. It could easily be stated that the + was a a logical next step for a company that had a suitable follow up for the popular micro. Unlike the QL, The Spectrum+ wasn't delayed, of 6 applications &quot;worth over PS50&quot;.... again over PS100&quot;, bundled with Amstrad's CPC package. Existing Spectrum owners could even upgrade kit. Other than the case design and reset switch design was exactly the same under the hood, Significantly higher than the 6% seen before. Whether this was due to board design changes as they'd expected the revision to hold more becoming confused with similarities with the As Christmas '84 loomed and with the 2 millionth record sales, whilst Acorn was still hoping Christmas before. Acorn had also begun cutting the price of with software in a bid to hold onto what they face of increasing competition. This was also the Christmas of the infamous up between Clive and Chris Curry as tensions was bustling with both Acorn and Sinclair pub portrayed in the BBC Dramatisation, Micro As Chris tells it, Clive snuck up behind him Chris see red and land a light blow, but was highlighting the reliability of Acorn machines, From Clive's perspective, these figures were an essentially unlimited window for return; &quot;Many of our customers are in the 14-15 year These are characters who can destroy granite gets a pretty tough pounding over the course return that machine and swap it over the counter So yes, we get a lot back, but they aren't Perhaps in light of this, Sinclair proceeded In any case, relations between Curry and Sinclair actually that sour in the first place. The upshot of all of this however, is that Sinclair withdrew the original Spectrum from to PS129.95. With the Electron still poised at PS199, things slashed the Electron price to the same price. The problem for Acorn was their production further price cuts the Electron would eventually the Spectrum, Acorn couldn't sustain the losses Sinclair justified the price cut with this &quot;The home computer market is currently entering competition from UK manufacturers in particular. Economies of scale in producing the Spectrum+ of 200,000 per month - permit us to take a and further increase our market share in the At this time Commodore held 30% and Acorn But however it was pitched, customers were households now owning a micro. A figure higher than any other country. Although the mark had been missed with the order which this time, would be able to capitalise the machine on a level peg with the Commodore Paramount to this was improving the basic hardware, perhaps not up to SID standard, chip found in the CPC. Working alongside Sinclair's Spanish distributor, This machine was a modest revision over the ULA modifications meant the video quality there's a vertical rolling effect between This is caused by an interaction between separate by using a single crystal oscillator. Further changes, also allowed an RGB connector image compared to the standard RF tuner. An identical sound chip to the CPC was also up on the CPC, and pushes sound through the speaker. Of course the machine also shipped with 128KB a nice upgrade, circumvented the tax imposed To accommodate the limitations of the Z80A 64K, Sinclair designers used bank switching through 8 16KB address pages. The new ROM incorporated 128k BASIC - doing a rather delightful menu on boot, also offering strength was setup correctly. It additionally allowed for on screen messages at the time. Looks wise, the machine is almost identical heat sink on the right hand side (the slatted machine's nickname, &quot;The Toastrack&quot;). This was to cool the 7805 voltage regulator, models. The lettering is also in red, and for me this Its the machine my brother and I had in the The Spectrum 128 was showcased at the SIMO with a price of 44,250 pesetas. But due to the number of unsold Spectrum+ in the UK until January 1986 at a price of retailed. However, this wouldn't be enough to save Sinclair Although the company was still profitable coupled with a few misfortunate events, heralded Firstly Prism Microproducts, Sinclair's current Sinclair over PS1M. Secondly, Sinclair had to postpone a stock to the adverse sentiment towards the computer With grim news headlines flying around and Sinclair C5 quickly catching up - neither Clive was rapidly having to refute allegations Without flotation funds, attitude meant that lending by it's bank and even if it didn't a cash crisis on it's hands. Sinclair was looking for a rescue bid, which with a PS12M rescue offer and a controlling negotiation with its bankers and main suppliers. This meant Christmas would come, and the Spectrum January 1986, filling owners with an unprecedented musical renditions on 128k enabled software. Some had spelled 1985 as the end of home computing, be the case, as did numerous others who had So the real question is... what would come Join me on the next episode for the Amstrad Be sure to subscribe and hit that bell icon I'd like to thank my Patrons tremendously, to Thank you very, very much for watching. Have a good evening.