A Woman Had A 3 Day Long Headache. This Is What woman presenting to the emergency room with nurse that this pain had been ongoing nonstop KC started having massive abdominal cramps that her period, but it would happen at least a week experienced in her life, up to that point. At an this pain, but they found that her resting heart was running high intensity intervals while just the emergency room where we are now. Doctors were sky high, but nothing else was wrong. All maybe a panic attack they said as they discharged next few months, KC notices her hair was falling she intentionally wanted to lose weight, so maybe nothing's wrong, she thought. At the wrong. This is for sure anxiety, and KC just next few months, KC got married. She went to the she told the physician that these abdominal happening one week before her period, kept getting and they never really went away. KC was then 29 random abdominal pain has a wide differential that could be causing that pain. To someone whose a prominent cause of abdominal pain to them could confirm. And you don't want to do surgery this gynecologist referred KC for a colonoscopy of gut inflammation happening. But it As the days pass, KC was waiting for the scope, One day, while huddled over in that strange lump. It wasn't swollen. When she laid down, she there was a stiff presence in her upper right blood tests done recently. She asked the doctor the scope will find if there's a problem. "Maybe colonoscopy wasn't even going to happen. At the worrisome for her, the nurse practitioner feels it or go to the emergency room, because something is primary care. They told her the colonoscopy would much, as she drove herself back to the emergency doctor told her, the scope will find it . But KC Ultrasound was performed and the technician's face put in for further imaging. And when a second uncertainty, and doubt stemming from KC's The doctor told KC, the hardness in her abdomen, it wasn't liver cancer, because a much larger having panic attacks, she didn't have anxiety, around in her body. The kidneys regulate fluid can impact blood pressure. With more fluid, the start to beat faster. The increased pressure could liver are in the abdomen where her pain was, this it's more than just cancer now, because it's not least her liver. And, what is she supposed to do genome was sequenced, we were finally able to versus a cancerous one. We've identified many of cancerous, but the physical characteristics of code for proteins, which give us our physical things. Proteins are made of amino acids. Amino genetic sequence. Changing that sequence, either mutations. But most mutations are harmless, and these mutations create proteins that signal to stop growing. To keep reproducing with no signal supply. And to survive in the circulation and Inside the kidneys are multiple working parts that function, with urine being a consequence of that parts harbor a variety of different cells in of the blood. And because of this heterogeneity, Greek genos referring to kind, it means many highly niche and vastly different cells. Things time, but in the rare instances where they aren't, what KC's kidney tumor looked like from the -Oma from the Latin word Tumor, referring to a cell inside that tumor that's characterized by at underneath a microscope. But something was are well documented to be benign cancers, meaning her liver, so a cancer has spread in her body. But then what's on her liver? As doctors go in underneath a microscope, they confirm-- the tumors kidney. And as they look at the kidney and liver an oncocytoma defying the consensus in medical out of the ordinary, seeing that exact same tumor she learned of this, she started to look online to knowledge, she could only find information on usually benign, the treatment is to surgically physician if they could do this for her, the her kidney, but there were just too many tumors spread, there's no telling if the cancer is in yet. When doctors were taking tumor samples her liver to collect, they got the samples from in to the recovery room. But almost instantly, feeling clammy, as her field of vision started to The liver is highly vascularized. A substantial through the liver at any given time. KC but this experience exposed that she does. Even present in the liver, there is a chance that it happen when her liver was biopsied. And because the medical team told her that surgery really doctors told KC that they wanted to start her on of different things. First, these medicines are and theoretically, should shrink her tumors. The decrease the likelihood of micrometastatic on imaging, there's millions of cancer cells have less cells than that, that aren't visible. sometimes at much higher rates than normal, they could appear on the next. And medicine could they're even seen. The problem is, this medicine different kidney cancer. It's not entirely clear growing somewhere else where they cant see, as KC country, at another large cancer center, KC was she did have, metastatic oncocytoma, despite doesnt spread in the body. The medical team at but there were less than 5 documented cases. She a different one from the combination originally shrink her tumor. To try to prevent any further would appear on subsequent scans. And if all this a minimum, this should help prolong her life, are so many different types of kidney cancers, but can have similarities with another subtype, while still having key differences amongst one from the same or similar cells as oncocytoma. It's are not colored by the standard stains used to is well known to spread throughout the body, kidney and the liver has sometimes cured patients in younger, female patients. Given these 2 of metastasis to the liver resembles Chromophobe, medicine used for Chromophobe, despite not second opinion visit. The physician here explains It could stop growing and stay stable. It could literature giving no clear signals on how to this inference from the related Chromophobe Kidney In United States medical training, across all embedded in the phrase, "if you hear hooves, emergency room all those months earlier with a of 165 . With a sitting blood pressure of 160 / these problems, you hear and see these "hooves" of or issues, causing them. And take steps to to identify the "zebra." It's very common the shuffle of multiple visits with multiple you have to be your own best advocate. But on the dragging people into the deepest pits of she was the one in a hundred million case today is still not fully characterized. When online was no help. All renal oncocytoma because the medical literature was no help, saying the internet was no help for KC when she looked at for that also outlined treatment that maybe Chromophobe. As she was started on the medicine tumors were observed to be shrinking in size. The treatment at the right time, for her particular KC started having bleeding problems again. In medical record and note that that medicine she she has a preexisting bleeding problem, this could shrinking all of her tumors was weighed against but as the cancer physician looked further, it where KC could stop the medicine, and be eligible medical team were preparing themselves for this during the height of the global health situation her to do the surgery. If this is delayed, it may and it could allow the tumors to start growing work anymore. But luckily for KC, when she put an for blood donations was simply overwhelming, as a her. And as surgeons go in, KC's right kidney and in a 6-hour operation. When she returned home, her years ago before this ordeal. No more resting intervals. No more 3-day long headaches, and no as KC was able to regain full function again. My and I am a Metastatic Renal Oncocytoma survivor. Oncocytic Tumor Alliance COA. She's also a a fundraiser tag on this video for COA and if I'll get the ball rolling. Thanks so much for