What does without rules, without restrictions, without limits? One goal, one singular vision to break the template of what is possible, to redefine what it means to be fast. To push the limits of performance they break with whatever means necessary, whatever the cost. In 1992, one man was brave enough to ask this question and gave everything he had to find the answer a difficult pursuit that led him to create that bounded past what it even meant to be a super car, a monolithic achievement titanium and gold, a singular pursuit of speed, of performance of fast forever. From the mind of a South African madman came a machine Porsche. Ferrari, Lamborghini. All came to know What if a car was created without rules? Without limits, that car would be the world's The McLaren F1. Close your eyes and imagine a fast car. No, you idiot. A properly fast car. That's better. Yes. When you think of real, proper, fast cars, they're typically the screaming traps made by overzealous Italian men. Difficult cars, unreliable cars, but fast cars. But by 1990, the world of supercars had largely been resting on its laurels. They were using antiquated technology. The Countach's V12 was nearly identical Lambo developed in the late 60's The Ferrari F40 was a tube framed chassis. It was basically a race car, wasn't exactly high tech, and owning They didn't drive very well, a team of people to keep them running. But that was what was working. That was what people wanted They wanted owning them And thanks to that, afraid to break the rules, fearful in technology And then Honda came along and well broke all of those rules. You see, Honda didn't know that a supercar They didn't know that they needed They just knew that when you stick it was a lot of fun. And since they were Honda, they just weren't capable of building The Honda NSX was essentially an accident, And like any impact, Distortions of sports cars long after it was released. It brought in Senna, driver, who at the time a bespoke racing company who employed in the world and used Honda engines Now it's pretty safe to assume to the office once or twice, at McLaren, a magnificent bastard happened to fall in love Up until then, he had assumed that the Porsche 911 But now he had tasted The Honda NSX Murray knew that there was unrealized potential in the world of fast cars, It's 1988 Cigarette smoke fills the air. Negronis fill tumbler glasses at the bar. And after a particularly grueling a table unaware that they are about History books Sitting in one corner Creighton Brown, a man who in his life wore jazz musician and most relevantly, Next to him is Ron Dennis. McLaren's team manager, Since the age of 18, when most people major, Ron was turning Across the table was Mansour being born with a pretty large silver spoon, pushed up his butt And there at the head of the table. Was Gordon friggin Murray, freak, a pioneer in race car design He's basically the reason that Formula One cars and probably the reason that most car circled around a table, coffee breasts They made a plan. You see, at the time, McLaren didn't They only made racecars for race tracks Ujiri Ever the businessman saw an Ferrari and Lotus were both racing, McLaren, he reckoned, could do better. He stood in front of his team each of them a genius in their own right, Let's do a road car, Ron Dennis. Usually the voice of reason, hardened and cynical after years of had visions of money being flushed down But he got so caught up in the dream of what was possible, Creighton, Dennis and Ojjeh began brand new company, Engineers aren't really good marketers. As they debated, Murray putting it all together in his own way Gordon pens the prophecy of the F1, that would become one of the greatest But before we read the prophecy, meet its hairy messiah first. Ian Gordon Murray was the son of a motorcycle racer Born in 1946 in Durban, South Africa, known for its rich art deco architecture His father at the time worked for Peugeot, under the moonlight. Most people didn't have the money and that didn't sit right On the weekends, he would drag young Race, whether it was hill, climbs up or rivalries You can bet that the Murray duo Papa Murray encouraged Gordon to study engineering Gordon begrudgingly did, Sure, he liked engines enough a three passenger rear But what Gordon really wanted to do So when Gordon was 21, but not having the money to buy one. He just set about building one. He managed to find a crashed Ford Anglia but he didn't have a garage, The chassis welded together He used her fertilizer caked shovel It almost sounds like an origin story Akin to Iron Man's suit Gordon Murray built his first race car He called it the AGM Ford or T.1 This is the naming convention They're all t dot something. The T1 looked a bit like a Lotus And that's because he used parts But underneath it was all Gordon Murray. The T one's triangular tube suspension Formula One cars, and even though the lotus Gordon had built a car After a few wins, Gordon decided he should actually pursue by moving to the cultural epicenter the center of rock and roll music No, not. Not America's South. God's own England. Having sold the IGM Ford for a plane Murray took his first few steps He got to work designing championship, Lotus was who he wanted to work for, There he was, named lead designer Yeah, that Bernie, the F1 At Brabham Murray would design one of the most unique The BT 46 B or as you probably know it, the fan car, its giant fan at the rear sucked air from the bottom of the car, The BT 46 B was a revolution, so upsetting Bernie decided that it maybe a bit too Gordon went on to pen more F1 cars racking up 22 wins and taking second His time at Brabham and that was to out engineer And in 1987, Gordon Parks, car designs into his coat He lands at McLaren shortly after He helps then lead designer designs cars and even And thanks to all of this. In 1991, he's named where his newly drafted of everyone who took part. These were the words that everyone on It must not weigh It will have a maximum width and the front and rear overhangs The majority of the car's mass must be it must not have any of the issues It must survive on roads, be stable and comfortable in short sketched on Murray had but one simple request. Just build the greatest road car ever. A car A car that was beautiful, And oh yeah, faster than the Porsche 959. It would be built with Formula because after all, Notably absent from the manifesto speeds or lap times or 0 to 60 times. That's right. For a car that dominated those performance They were never a part of the plan. Murray And in fact, he kind of hated cars Murray specifically set out It was a road car. It was the ultimate road car. In Gordon's McLaren's debut would have no rules. They had no inertia to overcome. They needed to fit in no mold. They were limited Racing was regulated. And road cars were the Wild West. The three bigwigs at the helm saw Gordon's design, read his holy words and said, Yes, We want this car without rules. But in order to create a car Gordon Murray wrote probably more rules ever dared to make. And God help you You see, Gordon The initial meeting to hash out nearly 11 hours after Gordon put together his dream team It included masterminds like Peter Elan M100 and Steve Randale, an early pioneer car chassis and who would later This think tank got to work on It would simply be a no compromise composites, carbon fiber, titanium, gold. There would be three seats sitting in the middle fully in command But it still had to be practical enough and daughter to the market. It needed luggage space. It needed to be reliable. And of course, this was a sports car. It would need instant throttle response It couldn't have any assists. There wouldn't be any abs or power Those systems, those safety features A car controlled by computers Gordon was confident that he could design He had the vision He knew he could engineer The one thing he knew he didn't have the perfect engine, a partner. From the outset, Gordon Murray He wanted his engine and at least five and a half liters, 12 cylinders furiously and most importantly, naturally aspirated, turbo to spool up was not Gordon's And importantly, He wanted a power plant As if that wasn't enough. It also had to be able to run forever be able to run reliably and all while being a structural component I don't think I need to tell you this, but in 1990, engines like that Gordon wanted the impossible without limits, But, you know, as you can see, Gordon made the rounds. First he approached Honda. After all, they had already been building the engines And they did just build the NSX, So it seemed like a natural fit. But Honda straight up, ghosted him. They probably took one and more than 300 horsepower part, But that was no problem because when you're Gordon Murray, He even considered but came to the conclusion that Ferrari would not be able I don't know what would Sure, Honda and Ferrari are masters of the internal combustion engine and I know this sounds crazy He considered working with Isuzu. I know that sounds crazy, A three and a half liters screaming lot of intricate and the Engine actually Ironically, though, head honcho Ron Dennis didn't want to give Isuzu the chance I mean, I guess when you're McLaren you didn't So Honda left McLaren on red Ferrari was too unreliable Gordon for Paul Rosche. Paul worked with Gordon before and thus had a lot of insight You see, before Honda's partnership with McLaren's F1 team, Gordon Paul Rosche was the guy that designed and when Gordon called him up to tell him Paul immediately said, I'm in. In record time, BMW produced monstrosity called the S70/2. It was an aluminum forged masterpiece at 6.1 liters and 627 horsepower. It exceeded the 100 horsepower per which was kind of a holy grail It had dry sump lubrication, meaning even under intense cornering. Each cylinder bank had its own water pump specifically forged making sure that the electric system It even had Vanos, BMWs version of VTEC at low speed and scream The only issue as far as Murray was concerned I mean, it was German, after all. Gordon really wanted to keep the weight The s70 was 20 lbs heavier than that. The weight you gain after your first year I can only imagine a frustrated Gordon I guess it'll have to do. Inside, he must have been furious. But the engine was the final piece The missing piece that allowed the car And slowly all of these pieces began to form. The new BMW powerplant behind the rear seats, wrapped in gold The exhaust pipe Yeah, I haven't heard of it either. Iconel is a special lightweight It stands up to heat They used Iconel It was both the speakers. You heard angel's scream out of. And they were also the rear crumple zone. Everything in the F1 was engineered Most things had dual use Like everything else about the F1, Murray told BMW stared at him like he was on fire. The clutch was only 200 millimeters The 60 degree V12 is perfectly balanced. Why do you need a flywheel? Gordon BMW argued that you couldn't But telling Gordon Murray that he can do So the McLaren F1 doesn't have a flywheel Included in the F1 quirks car firsts, including active, Whatever the hell that meant. And did you forget about that Brabham BT 45 B with the giant fan? Gordon didn't. He added fan assisted underbody downforce effects And overall there were two commandments Lightweight The engine was designed It was load bearing. The McLaren F1 was as rigid as any car made before it All of this and more resided What was visible on As soon as Murray he knew what the rest of the car They started with models. Thousands of models were built and then those 4/3 scale models were used tunnel tests. The McLaren team the most downforce This was before the rise of computer These guys had to move little bits of clay around And in 1991, they sculpted the entire car out of clay and set it Seriously, have I mentioned His goal was to make a smaller NSX with a full scale clay model done to install. Murray got into the finishing touches. No detail that feels good to the touch and is firm Perfectly balanced. Gearlever and very importantly, three seats to experience Murray had thought of everything And I mean, there are probably bolts The F1 was finally ready for production. Now, if you think Gordon's obsessiveness while you haven't seen Every single tool has a place And if you were one of the people and you had oil stains on your hands, I'm not saying but I am saying that Swiss watchmakers It took a great deal of effort to drive worth it. Supercar competition The Ferrari F40 was duking it out 2 cars that raised the bar Lamborghini had released the Diablo giving rich assholes Even Vector was experimenting and Bugatti had been revived a car that proved that fast But the McLaren F1 It was the ultimate driver's car, that it was almost impossible not to break a law in it, You could let your mom borrow it The seats were adjustable. Your passengers had miles of leg room. The roof was tall enough And when you were driving reacted in No wild turbo lag or strange or tried to kill you. Sure, it lacked power steering, and its complete lack of computer assistance means that the car The six speed transmission was fluid, like a well-oiled rifle bolt. Easy to shift with a light clutch. Its wide tires mean that it was absolutely glued to terra There's more torque at 1500 RPMs in an F1 There was always power on tap competition. There wasn't any. The F1 blew past It left the F40 in the dust on its way It accelerated as hard at 150 miles You could see 200 miles per hour a commercial. All of this speed and all of this fury from a car The F1 was made to be a good car. First performance always came second. I mean, shit, If you weren't too This was a passenger car Hell, it even embarrassed most of the fully built There is still no car like it. Gordon Murray had succeeded in Each one of the 60 or so F1s ever built to that singular goal What he didn't set out to do the damn thing did it anyway. On a soggy autumn Saturday in Cologne, Thomas Bscher brings about a slight misfire. You see, he'd been daily driving it back and forth from Cologne That's an 118 mile trip. The McLaren Mechanics take out the ECU to figure out the issue, and they stare When are you experiencing this misfire? They ask. Thomas replies. Around 197 miles per hour, The doctor had been running up on his long commute every single day. Automotive journalists at the time, capacity, had taken the F1 to screaming at 7500 rpm in sixth gear. The journalist sensed They just ran out of tarmac Murray himself you could push the car to over But these figures He never set out to break and yet his F1 has the longest in history at Volkswagen's test Andy Wallace a specially maintained He would ease onto the banked By the time he left the bank, he was Less than a minute later, he would shatter as the McLaren F1 XP five hit 391 kilometers per hour. Over the radio, he seemed disappointed it But that's quite fast, isn't it? Quite fast. Might have been a bit of an understatement just 1/500 shy of 243 miles per hour, it became the fastest naturally aspirated Period. As Andy said after he drove it, and will never be beaten. This was truly the world's fastest car. And much to Gordon's likely chagrin, road car was a really damn good From its conception, I mean, sure. Ron Dennis said that it would never go racing and Gordon Murray kept But the design, the engineering by the brightest minds in racing. What the hell did they They had made a fast car and fast cars need to be raced, Demand for a race prepped so Murray begrudgingly F1's designated GTR. Luckily there wasn't a lot ready for the race track. They added a roll cage, tighten up the steering, upgraded and spent just one day in the wind tunnel Those nine GTR's rolled out of McLaren's and immediately set out to dominate Seven were entered into Le Mans Among them was a GT-R sponsored by Tokyo This would be the humble from road car straight to the most prestigious There, among purpose built race on four wheels The seven shiny F1 started the race but one of them took home the gold. The winning team was managed who called themselves They gathered three drivers Yannick Dalmas from Japan, Masanori Sakai JJ Lehto Not only did the McLaren win record of 174.6 miles per hour It was BMW Power's first win. It was the first win for a Japanese driver Oh, and of course, not only was it McLaren's first win in Le Mans The ultimate road car proved to be cars, and people continue to race them Gordon and his team had truly created and it was almost So what do you call it? Fast. A Porsche is fast. Ferrari is fast. But the McLaren F1 In 1993 you had supercars. Ferrari had their F40. They was fast, but it was basically a tube Jaguar had the xj220 beautiful and fast, but sadly underpowered. Bugatti's but Bugatti in the 1990s was a mess. Lamborghini's Diablo had the looks Its beauty was only skin deep. Porsche's 959 was as close as it got, but it remained in the f one's rear The McLaren F1 stood alone. It was rarer than Ferraris, more expensive than Lamborghinis behaved on the road, And more importantly, So raw, so fast, that it took a decade for something Gordon Murray and his team started with a singular goal through three years of development. With Gordon's unshakable resolve He succeeded in creating something more beyond what anyone at the time could even imagine was possible. A machine so delicately balanced, it demanded to be heard an amalgam of raw brutality and space age technology well behaved Piloted by professionals, as criminally fast But not because of its power. But because even in a pedestrians of being controlled without gimmicks, The F1 was pure. Huddled around a table in Milan in 1988. Four men set their minds to one purpose not to make a supercar, but to make something bigger. And in 1993, they did. They created the world's