My Unlucky Social Animal Ning Shuyan It has been 6 years since I traveled from the modern era to this dynasty Miss, it's getting late. It's time to get up Miss, you are about to enter the palace Your peerless beauty Then you will definitely get the emperor's favor. By then you will be the most noble woman in the world The most noble one She is just a woman that everyone has to bow to when they see her. Let's go Why How could a concubine like him become a concubine in one fell swoop? Maybe I'll see him later? I still have to salute him. You should learn from that little bitch In everything, you have to be able to endure and pretend Sending him to the palace was just to consolidate the family's glory. At the same time, it is also paving the way for you oops mother She is a concubine Even if you are favored in the palace The ranking is not that high. Miss, this lady is too much. Three years ago, the late emperor personally arranged a marriage for you. If the late emperor had not passed away The prince must observe mourning for three years You have already been the mistress of the palace. Baby pleasing to the eye I'll leave you with a thought. Take a look I like the motherly love that we can't get in modern times. My aunt gave me double the amount. I like As long as it is embroidered by my aunt My daughter likes it Do you remember Qiuyue who entered the palace two years ago? Your father asked for help from some connections. Please transfer him to serve in your palace. He is proficient in medicine He will definitely help you. Daddy, why are you trying to help me? That's for their Ning Mansion. Deep in the Harem Be patient with whatever you can endure Okay? My daughter knows Go ahead It's the day of the young lady's wedding. Forget about Madam Hou The master didn't come out to see me off. Miss The palace is the dirtiest place in the world Only with the emperor's favor and power That is the only thing I can rely on to stand firm in the harem Little Master Here we are Not bad, very elegant and chic baby Thank you for taking this trip, sir. Don't dare This is the slave's duty. You are welcome, my lord. The slave gave the little Lord, please wake up. Get ready I should also go and pay my respects to the Queen. The four concubines selected I entered the palace today. Reply to the Emperor The Queen has already decided the positions of the five young ladies. Arranged the bedroom Five are emperors In addition to the four draft There is another one who was given by the late emperor three years ago. Daughter of Ningyang Marquis snort peaceful Empress Feng Married to the Emperor at 18 Now married for 9 years The most noble woman in the palace now May your Majesty be blessed with good health. Sit down, everyone. Concubine Zhuang asked her sister to serve the emperor again today. I hope my sister won't blame me for being late. Greetings to the Queen No need for courtesy This is the most favored Concubine Zhuang, Nangong Relying on the emperor's favor and his father Zheng Yipin's identity Daily pampering and pride All of them are beauties It seems that Concubine Rong will also be suppressed This gentle It was Concubine Rong Jiang who gave birth to the eldest prince. Concubine Zhuang's sister is joking Everyone is beautiful The Queen is also Why did you compare me to others? These delicate faces I feel comfortable looking at this. What's more, the Emperor You are the beauty of the city Reply to Concubine Rong's words I am a talented person in Ning I am the beauty of the city I can tell by your appearance. Why did the late emperor give you to the emperor? This face is my weapon It is also the source of jealousy for the women in the harem. You have to hide yourself to survive in this harem Among these newcomers The servant Qiang Ning praised Ning Cairen a few words He was particularly frightened. Ning Cairen is not favored by the emperor How could I forget How was the fate bestowed upon the emperor? The late emperor originally gave Ning Cai to King Xuan. But at that time, King Xuan and his wife were deeply in love. He rejected then The late emperor turned around and gave him to the current emperor. So to speak This Ning Cairen is really pitiful. Which palace is the emperor going to tonight? Today's government This morning I have a headache Lanyue Pavilion is a quiet place Who lives in Lanyue Pavilion now? Report to the Emperor She is Ning Cairen from Ningyang Marquis's Mansion. My lady, just now I received news from Lord Liu Yin. It is said that Meng Cainu is pregnant How many times has this talented lady Meng been favored by my lord? This is pregnancy You're not a baby Do you really think Meng Cainv is pregnant at this time? Is it a good poem? Such a good color of talented life How come our emperor forgot about it? I feel really sorry for you. Thank you for your concern, madam. The Emperor is busy with state affairs There are so many concubines in the harem It's understandable that the emperor couldn't remember me for a moment. You are a sensible person I will remind the Emperor. Thank you, Queen I'm late. Please forgive me, Queen. How come you are so arrogant just because you are pregnant? No need to be polite, you are pregnant A little more delicate It's okay to take more rest Thank you, Madam It's not long since I entered the palace. Meng Cainu is pregnant What a blessing! Unlike some people Only a good skin But I can't even see the emperor. In this palace Being able to give birth is a skill But I have been hiding for too long I'm afraid it will backfire It's time to meet my future boss. It's been two months since Ning Cai entered the palace. Don't talk about concubines I haven't even seen the emperor. Could it be that this Concubine Ning had offended the Emperor? Question the curtain person But the crabapple tree remains the same Do you know? It should be green, fat, red and thin Why do you recite such sad poems? Just sigh These petals can only bloom in this deep courtyard Have you seen it recently? It withered away It really made me squat until today The Queen took her concubines to the garden to enjoy the flowers Why did you come to this deserted Begonia Garden? I'm worried about you. It was the former emperor Force me to the emperor The Emperor doesn't like me. Why should I go near him? It will only make me more annoyed. But you didn't do anything wrong, sir. Do you really intend to live out your life alone in this harem? End of this life? You are with me I'm not alone If I can live this life peacefully Why not? But in this palace Without a little love, it is really difficult to move forward Once the competition There will be constant disputes Now that the person is in front of me Then try it out Where did the lecher come from? Babies must not be rude Your Majesty, I pay my respects to you. Long Live the Emperor Get up, you are I am Ning Cairen from Lanyue Pavilion. The emperor is going to the Imperial Garden to enjoy the flowers, right? I will take my leave now. My Lord, such a good opportunity Pick it up and leave To do things I don't fight or compete. He is so afraid of the ruler I guess Concubine Ning doesn't want to anger the emperor. I thought he was ugly. I didn't expect she was quite pretty. It's different from other women. Kind of interesting Your Majesty, it is getting late. Are you planning to rest in Zhaochen Hall? Or which concubine should be summoned to sleep with him? I would rather report to the Emperor A maid from the Yihe Palace came to report It is said that Concubine Zhuang is feeling unwell. Please go and have a look knew I'm going there now. Why It seems that this Ningcai man is indeed an unlucky person. Modern palace fighting drama tells me Don't deal with Huaiyun's concubine Sister Ning Hello, Sister Meng Sister, are you enjoying the pear blossoms? Why not go out for a walk with your sister? I won't go This sun I feel a little dizzy from the sun I want to go back to the palace now. Then I won't leave either. Go shopping with my sister I'm not familiar with him. You have to come with me The heroine in the palace drama frames the queen This is the only trick available. I'm afraid it's not the child in Meng's belly. Is there really something wrong? Ah, sister Let's go So anxious to go together There must be a conspiracy. My Lord, what's wrong with you? I don't know why I suddenly feel dizzy. I should just sit for a while. I won't go shopping with my sister anymore. Sister, stop pretending. I really didn't hold my fart in. Meng Cainu, what are you planning? Ah, someone is coming Mengcai, you fell down Someone come quickly You should consider yourself unlucky. If you don't come out Today is none of your business. My Lord, what should I do now? We will fight back Water comes and soil covers The fetus in Meng Tai woman's belly was aborted. Palace fighting drama looks down on me These ancient women I love to play these tricks to frame people. But I have no grudge against him Is it possible that he is Jia Yun? No, that's a big sin. It's Jia Yun He doesn't go to overthrow the concubine Why do you want to bring me down? This is a cruelty that even the emperor has never seen. Unless his child is already dead. Looking for a scapegoat Queen I saw with my own eyes that the Ningcai people tripped my young master My little master will fall and miscarry. Is it really you, Ningcairen? Back to the Queen I did not overthrow Meng Cainu It was Meng Cainu who fell to the ground I started to complain about stomachache. You're talking nonsense. If it weren't for you Why is my little master sitting on the ground? The Emperor Arrives Your Majesty, Your Majesty Sit down, everyone. The Emperor has arrived just in time Meng Cainu suffered a miscarriage I am asking Ning Cairen Your Majesty Your Majesty You must make the decision for me. Ning Cairen, do you have anything to say? I want to ask the doctor a few questions. Doctor Zhang has been taking care of Ms. Meng for this whole pregnancy. Right? The fetus can always be stable. Stable, always stable Doctor Zhang, please don't help the evildoer Be responsible for what you say I dare not lie Why did Miss Ning ask this? Doctor Zhang, you go out first. Ning Cairen, do you have anything else to say? It is said that Meng is a talented woman I had a miscarriage two days ago. Then you must take blood-activating and blood-stasis-removing medicine Natural and anti-abortion drugs are different I doubt Meng Cainu's pregnancy was aborted a few days ago. Ask the Queen to search the Imperial Palace The residue of Meng Cainv's abortion-preserving medicine This is the royal heir I can't tolerate your nonsense here. You have a cruel heart Push me to miscarriage What do you want to do now? Your Majesty, you must make the decision for me. What was wrong with my pregnancy? The guards can also pay respects to the Queen every day. Hide this fact You get up first. I will not wrongly accuse anyone today yes I believe that the emperor will handle this matter impartially. Then you should take the residue of the abortion-preserving medicine to the imperial physician. Go and bring the dregs over. My Lord, the medicine residue has been thrown away today. He could think of putting the blame on someone else. I will dispose of the evidence first. How could you leave it for others to catch? Ning Cairen, do you have any other evidence or proof? I finally understand why he insisted on me leaving the garden. I'm afraid I'm looking for a place with palace maids and eunuchs. Play this play Except for the maids around me No witnesses But the same What evidence do you have to prove it? It was me who caused you to have a miscarriage. I didn't know that Ning Cairen could confuse right and wrong so much Is it possible? I will also harm my unborn child and put the blame on you. How does this benefit me? Then I'll cause you to have a miscarriage What's the benefit to me? Before that I haven't even seen the emperor. How could they harm the heir to the throne openly? Because you have not received grace That's why you're jealous of me for being pregnant with the royal heir Talk about jealousy That makes sense. Seeing other people are pregnant But I have no grace Do you think I wouldn't feel sad? You said it was me who tripped Meng Cainu This is what the servant saw with her own eyes So this talented woman Meng fell down and sat The ground is still thrown forward My little master is sitting on the ground Why didn't you help the talented lady when she fell? If you hold on Why didn't you fall down with him? If as you said It was really me who tripped up the talented girl of my dreams Then why did this talented woman in the dream fall to the ground? Instead of falling forward And this fall There will inevitably be some scratches on your body But this talented woman had nothing but abdominal pain The others are unharmed. Meng Cainu Do you know your sin? Your Majesty is the one who is guilty Failed to protect the baby in the womb But maybe you didn't mean to lay off people. Your sin Is it simply because she failed to protect the royal heir in her belly? The child is gone I am also very sad. But the emperor's words I don't quite understand Bring in Doctor Zhang I would like to see Your Majesty, I leave you one I am engaged in Zhaolong I am stupid Please let your Majesty know Meng Cainu confessed everything What do you mean by that? Your Majesty, please spare my life. In fact, the baby in Meng Cainv's belly was not feeling well in the first two days. The child died yesterday. Ms. Meng asked me to keep it secret Don't tell the emperor yet. I am also temporarily bewildered. Please spare my life, Your Majesty! Concerning the Royal Heir You are a royal doctor, but you didn't report it. If Ning Cairen was really wronged Chopping off your head isn't enough Your Majesty, please spare my life. Your Majesty, please spare my life. Your Majesty, please spare my life. Why did Meng Cainu have a miscarriage? Meng Cainu said he took folk remedies It's difficult to do it in one go But this prescription doesn't suit Meng Cainu's constitution. That's why the dragon fetus was injured. Your Majesty, please spare my life. You've ruined all my good fortune. Poor royal heir Your Majesty Your Majesty I know I was wrong. Your Majesty, hahahaha Ningcai people were wronged in today's incident You've been wronged Get up quickly Meng Cainu harmed the emperor's heir Framed concubines Demoted to commoner Banished to the cold palace Doctor Zhang was demoted from his position as imperial physician From now on, you are not allowed to step into the palace Thank you, Your Majesty Little Lord Meng The talented woman is too bold How dare you put the blame on you? She deserved her conspiracy to be exposed. I have always understood that the plots in the harem are hard to guard against. I didn't expect it to be so fast I wanted to be a low-key concubine pretending to be stupid. Now lives are at stake I can only try my best to clear the suspicion After today The other concubines will definitely be wary of me. He just saw that I was unpopular. I rarely talk on weekdays. Want to frame me But I didn't expect Put yourself in it Little Lord Sunshine Wood is here Please come in. Congratulations to Ning Cairen The Emperor turned over your card tonight These hidden arrows I escaped once There is a second time You can't escape forever Only served in bed The Emperor's Favor In this palace, no one can be bullied. Your Majesty, I pay my respects to you. May Your Majesty be blessed with good health. No need to be polite Today's Events I haven't thanked the emperor yet. Thank you, His Majesty. Watch and eat Today's Events You were wronged. No need to refuse But the emperor and I have never met before. Why does the emperor believe me? I think it would be more appropriate for you to wear a crabapple flower It's more suitable to wear it on your head. The flowers in the Begonia Garden smiled that day It seems She believed that I had no intention of competing for favor in the life of a little white lotus Next time I see the emperor, I will wear a crabapple flower good I help the emperor change his clothes Why does Your Majesty look at me like this? Didn't your mother teach you the rules? I am a little nervous. The concubine is suitable Don't be afraid I will pity you continue In this harem where people are eaten without leaving any bones Only the Emperor's grace and power To keep me alive In this case Your Majesty, I have made up my mind That Ningcai person I underestimated him. Yes, if someone else encounters this kind of thing I was already so scared that I was incoherent But this person can remain calm and at ease. And the emperor is in trouble again tonight Talented people He is good-looking and not stupid. It's only a matter of time. He was silent before. I thought he was an honest man. snort The Queen is also a little clever. If the future is uncontrollable Wouldn't she become the second Zhuang Fei? Zhuang Fei's father is a general of the first rank And he is the legitimate daughter And Ning Cairen's father Although he was conferred the title of Marquis He is just a third-rank official. He's just a concubine. How much endurance can you have? Besides I will not allow him to become the second Concubine Zhuang It's time for Concubine Zhuang to give some love to her My dear, would you like to rest a little longer? Didn't the Emperor say that we don't have to go and pay our respects? Then I will return to the palace first. Do not disturb the emperor's sleep good If I can't get up tomorrow You don't have to serve Xigong Qing. How can we take the emperor's words seriously? If the Emperor gives me this honor I will naturally inform the Queen. But even if the emperor really gave me this honor Same thing I won't go Isn't that just being spoiled and arrogant? Is a slave stupid Wait, that's the only thing I can do It's not too late for the genius to be spoiled You pick the herbs according to this prescription. After crushing, add water and stir into mud film Convenient for my daily consumption When the Emperor had not yet completely fallen for me I have to take better care of this face. Serving others with beauty When beauty fades, love becomes crazy Um How bold! Kai Riding must cut his nails But those hands Bring me the purple jade bracelet that I have in my collection I don't know what my mother is doing at this moment. My Concubine is Frustrated I scared you, didn't I? Thank you, Your Majesty I didn't know the Emperor would come here at this moment. Put your hands out Your Majesty, what's wrong with my hand? No My beloved wife's hands are very beautiful Creamy skin It really fits Thank you, Your Majesty I like it very much By the way, Your Majesty doesn't know my name yet, right? His daughter respectfully Gentle words and sparse The name fits the person I am very small Your Majesty, please keep your voice down. Don't disturb your master's sleep. yes My Lord, you woke up. My lady, this is the longan that was just delivered to the palace today. The emperor asked Eunuch Yang to bring you some I heard that only high-ranking masters have this dragon eye. Only you and Lady Cheng It seems so The emperor must be somewhat concerned about the young lady. If this is the heart The emperor has many sweethearts. I'm not the only one But at least you are remembered by the Emperor. Otherwise, the emperor would not have come to Lanyue Pavilion last night. People Always interested in new and exciting people or things At present, I have to keep a low profile. I have to leave him my own mark. He won't forget me so quickly. Longyan also sent a copy to the matchmaker. It seems that the emperor treats him differently. When I first entered the palace I heard that when the emperor was still the prince They are all Cheng Meiren's grandfathers. Responsible for teaching the Pope martial arts and swordsmanship I think the emperor should respect Master Cheng very much. No wonder Lady Cheng is so arrogant Rong Fei now lives in the same palace with Cheng Meiren In the past, she was the only one who favored Concubine Zhuang more. Now here comes the beautiful lady Cheng I must be extremely jealous. Now this is the most lively But it's you, my sister, who is the best at Qiulan Palace. In comparison My sister's palace is a little deserted. If my sister is envious You can ask the Queen to ask Concubine Cheng to move to your palace. Why did the Queen arrange for the two of them to live in the same place? If you are afraid that the concubine will become too powerful Shouldn't it be arranged in Concubine Zhuang's Summer Palace? My sister is not so lucky. Such a blessing! I'd better leave it to you to enjoy slowly. No Even if Concubine Zhuang is favored No royal heir Concubine Ke Rong has an heir If the grace does not diminish This is the Queen's threat. The Queen is really scheming. Concubine Rong If you feel that I share a palace with you Press your hidden You can report this to the Emperor and Empress. I don't want to live in Qiulan Palace. Hum, relying on the emperor's favor to give you How dare you talk to me like this? Who is being presumptuous again? I pay my respects to Her Majesty the Queen. I pay my respects to Her Majesty the Queen. Sit down, everyone. Ru Fei You are an old man in the palace. Give three points in everything The beauty of the city is young Short time in the palace The emperor inevitably favors some The Queen seems to be speaking well of the beauty in the city. It's actually stirring up hatred. yes But Lady Cheng is from my palace. Lost the rules Can't you just say a few words? Concubine Rong You don't like me. Is it that I broke the rules? I really don't know how the Cheng family taught me Princess Ru, stop talking nonsense Queen The tea I prepared today It's really good There is still some sweetness. Cheng Meiren is really brave How dare you contradict Concubine Rong in public? The Cheng family has been a military family for generations. I guess he takes after his father's character. but This kind of people who often act according to their colors are the most difficult to guard against The quiet and gentle ones I can't guess what he's thinking. You are a beauty How dare you hide in front of me? If I still don't teach you a lesson It makes you even more rampant. Qiuyue, let's go and have dinner Are you going to see the Emperor? I would like to see Concubine Rong It's a coincidence that Ning Cairen came I am preparing to take charge of the country myself. Lady Cheng doesn't want to dirty her hands. Now that you are here Please work hard for me. Rong Fei clearly cannot stand Cheng Meiren and me. Wanted to make me an enemy of Cheng Meiren I dare not I have never compared myself to your beauty Low status concubine I really don't dare to do it for you Concubine Rong This is my order. Hurry up and start Concubine Rong beat me today If the emperor knew Did the Empress Rufei ever think about the consequences? You thought you moved out of the emperor I don't dare to do anything, right? When the palace is favored What are you still? Pearl slaps him on the mouth yes Concubine Rong didn't dare to fight anymore Concubine Cheng just entered the palace No etiquette And continue to fight I'm afraid his face is ruined. Please forgive him this time, Empress Rong. Forget it, my lord has plenty of I won't argue with you today. You can talk to me later. You'd better be polite. That's right Since Ning Cairen didn't dare to kill Guo Chengmei herself, Then you stay Supervise him to kneel for an hour. Stand up for a while I have never been treated this way at home. This Concubine Rong is really domineering Women love their appearance the most. Apply ice pack after you go back. Don't think I don't hate you anymore. If the Emperor hadn't come I'm too lazy to care about you emperor I am too ashamed to see the emperor. I am too ashamed to see the emperor. I know you've been wronged. Let's go back to the palace Ning Cairen was also frightened Go back to the palace and have a good rest. Thank you, Your Majesty My dear, please beg for mercy on behalf of Lady Cheng. He didn't even say thank you. I didn't expect him to thank me. If I really beat Lady Cheng today It will not only intensify the hatred between him and me The emperor's favorability will also decrease. If I ask for mercy And it can also win the emperor's favor The wise master Just now, Lady Cheng threw herself into his arms He didn't even raise his hands. Even some disdain so The Emperor doesn't love Lady Cheng as much as the legend says. The emperor changed the palace for Cheng Meiren Respected as a concubine Conferred the title of Xi The Emperor is indeed Love Rong Fei Even so I never blamed or questioned him. Maybe the emperor just kept this matter in his heart. Maybe he doesn't care about it on the surface. The emperor's mind is the most unpredictable Don't blame old love New love home comfort Really passionate Akizuki Hongu has developed a new facial mask recipe Tomorrow you go get the medicine according to the new prescription. Too heavy Then I'll be gentle Love What is the mask that Ai Fei is talking about? What's the use? The mask is made by crushing some spices and herbs Smudge Plants It can make my skin smoother No wonder the concubine is so beautiful Today I also plead for mercy for the robbery Not afraid of offending Concubine Rong I didn't think so much. I have no grudge against Xijie Yu I can't slap him. As for Concubine Rong Although a bit impatient But he is not an unreasonable person. You shouldn't blame me, right? The beloved concubine drinks so much My beloved concubine actually calls me Rongfei Of course. Rong Fei is the emperor's person One of the Four Concubines Even if she wants to blame me It is also reasonable Today's Events It was Concubine Rong who was wrong I want to implicate you I came here specially to see you I didn't expect my beloved concubine to be so considerate. My beloved is not feeling well I'm just a little scared Since I entered the palace Always follow the rules Never offended anyone But it's because I have a kind personality. Is that why you bully me? Today's Events You were wronged. I will give you justice, my beloved concubine. Didn't Your Majesty tell me my concubine's name? Why do you always call me my beloved concubine? good Shuye My beloved concubine doesn't seem to like pillows very much. The pillow is too high I feel uncomfortable with this pillow. or Your Majesty, how about lending me your hand as a pillow? The emperor is worthy of being called the true dragon emperor I just stand there I can also feel the emperor's prestige. Slippery tongue I'm in bed Your Majesty, I send you off Order the Ministry of Internal Affairs As a shorter pillow Use the best materials yes Qiuyue, where are the things I asked you to prepare? Little Master Do you really want to take this contraceptive pill? As I am now It's hard to protect yourself How can I protect the child? Your Majesty, I am here to see you, Long live the emperor! Madam Chu Baolin has successfully met the Emperor It seems that the emperor's evil I have been in Zhaochen Hall for the whole afternoon. Chu Baolin's weak appearance Somewhat similar to Ning Cairen The emperor likes this kind of queen The Empress Rongfei has been confined The emperor confined Rong Fei yesterday. It seems that the words last night touched the emperor's heart. Great, Rong Fei is missing. The young master feels more at ease in the palace. Where does this palace come from? No more concubine Rong And Queen Zhuangfei? Besides, it's just a ban. The young lady heard that Chu Baolin danced in the Imperial Garden yesterday. Won the Emperor's favor He was the one who served me last night. Tonight I turned over Xue Yunu's card again Our Emperor It's really a fair deal. My dear, would you like to go to the Imperial Palace? No, if they want to fight, let them fight. Baby, go to the imperial kitchen and get some milk This is just for facial The emperor's favorite hands must be taken care of. Does the Emperor not love me anymore? How could he bear to confine my queen to the palace? Cheng and Ning must have whispered something to the emperor. The emperor would do this It must be those two bitches. They must be very proud now. The emperor must be trying to warn the harem. It's not that I don't love you Besides, you have the eldest prince by your side. It will be lifted soon. You are right. The emperor will not ignore me Wait for me to go out Be I must kill those two bitches. Master Ying, you are here I made some food for the emperor. I wonder if the Emperor is free to see me. Wait a minute, my lord I will go to the boat now. My Lord, the Emperor wants you to come in. Your Majesty, I pay my respects to you. Don't bother I personally prepared some food for His Majesty. Your Majesty, please try it. Try it now Tastes good Not seen for a few days Shuyan seems to be more beautiful The emperor loves to beat his concubine What are you doing on such a hot day? Come by yourself Just let the maid send it. I haven't seen Your Majesty for a long time. I miss the emperor. Such a powerful minister The Emperor is my concubine's husband One day without seeing you feels like three autumns Honey in the mouth The emperor will know only after he tastes it. The master has a secret in his mouth did you know No one in this harem dares to be as presumptuous as you. I just want to play I know I was wrong I will return to the palace to reflect on this. come over The Emperor and Concubine Zhuang sent a maid to urge Ask you what happened? The Emperor is going to the palace of Concubine Duan Then I will take my leave first. Today is Concubine Zhuang's birthday I promised to accompany her tonight Yes, the emperor should go soon. Don't keep Concubine Zhuang waiting anxiously. Shu Yan is still sensible If it were someone else, they would have been dissatisfied. No wonder everyone wants to climb to the top Say I am now one of the bottles You can sit and drive away Why walk in this hot summer? This ancient rule is broken It's like forcing me to get a promotion and a raise. I thought you would stay in Zhaochen Palace tonight. Today is Concubine Zhuang's birthday The emperor will definitely go to the Summer Palace My dear, you took the trouble to cook for the emperor. Running back and forth on such a hot day Wanting to go and having to go are two different things. Beauty is like food If it comes too easy Eat it in one bite and you won't miss it If this is the moment when you finally get what you want It will be different Since ancient times But few men can escape from women. Playing Hard to Get Let's go Qiuyue, although you know a little about medicine But there will be more and more calculations in the future I still have to find a more authoritative imperial physician in the palace. Keep it for your own use The young lady, the imperial physician Qi, is here to check her pulse. Xiaozhuo bye The master is fine It's just that the weather is hot Susceptible to heat stroke You can drink some Chinese patent medicine to clear away heat and fire Get rid of the fire Yeah, looks pretty honest. Looks younger Let Qiuyue try it first I know. Thank you, Doctor Ji You are so kind, my lord. These are what I should do. Qiuyue went to see off Doctor Ji yes The Imperial Edict Arrives Fengtian Chengyun The emperor issued an edict saying that talented people should be scholars Gentle and kind Strictly follow etiquette I am canonized as a fifth-rank beauty. I accept your order Congratulations, my dear The emperor also gave many gifts Especially this But it's a rare treasure Thank you, Eunuch Yang Autumn Moon What a treasure It looks really good on the master Even brighter and more charming Slippery Tongue Qiuyue Do we have people in the Ministry of Internal Affairs? Originally there was It's Eunuch Li Originally a candidate for the position of Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs But later it was replaced by Wang Gonggong So Eunuch Li was transferred away It is said that this eunuch Wang is the man of Concubine Zhuang. To this point I will hold grace in my hands No one offends me I don't offend anyone If the Queen arranges for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to send eunuchs and palace maids over You all need to keep an eye out yes Please review The Emperor is coming Let him in now. Yes, I will post The Emperor was originally a noble concubine Seeking the Name of the World Don't worry too much about this, brother. The emperor thanks the emperor I'll take my leave now. Ning Meiren is circling me Met the prince King Xuan is really a beautiful lady You guys also saw it three years ago. It was him At first it was just a distant side Never saw clearly I didn't expect Such a beautiful woman It's been so long since I've forgotten it. The emperor is blessed. The beautiful concubines around me are better than each other I am blessed Let me see what delicious food Shuyan brought me It's lily and lotus seed porridge You can relax and unwind Strengthens the spleen and stomach Your Majesty, what's wrong with you? Don't take this hairpin out anymore. I know The Emperor Minds The time when I almost became the concubine of King Xuan But this matter is not something I can influence. I don't want this to happen either. I hope so much If the late emperor had directly given me to the emperor How nice I promise you that I will not make any suggestions on this matter again. I also want to thank my third brother. If my third brother hadn't taken you as his concubine, Then I and Shu Yan you won't meet real Your Majesty, do you really not regret meeting me? real I am the Son of Heaven A man of his word Did Shuyan ever ask me to let you observe mourning for three years? Waiting for me in the boudoir for three years I believe More waiting is for a better encounter Whether the emperor believes it or not I feel that I didn't like King Xuan back then. There was no eye contact at the beginning However, I still want to thank King Xuan for not accepting my offer. otherwise I will never meet a man as good as your Majesty. Why didn't Zhuang Fei come? Yesterday was not his business. Is it possible that you are feeling unwell again? Who said I didn't come? Who said I didn't come? Last night I thought about my father going to the battlefield I'm a little worried I didn't sleep well, so I missed the chance to pay my respects to the Queen. Your Majesty will not blame me, right? General Nangong serves the country The battlefield is full of swords It is right for children to worry about their fathers The Queen cannot understand my thoughts. As long as Your Majesty does not blame me for being late, that's all. I naturally don't understand the affairs of the court. But the harem This palace knows much more than Concubine Zhuang I only hope that the six palaces can live in harmony At the same time, we must distinguish between the noble and the humble Rules That Lady Ning stayed in Zhaochen Palace for several hours yesterday. May I ask the Queen? Lady Ning has broken the rules. How to punish Empress Zhuang I don't know the holy will and rules. Which one should I listen to? I am stupid Please tell me clearly The Emperor is the Rule Lady Ning, which one do you want to listen to? Lin Zhaorong is right I know you are a reasonable person. If it weren't for the Emperor's instructions How could you stay in Zhaochen Hall for so long? Sit down now. Thank you, Queen, for your tolerance. I have a good news to tell you sisters. This morning, Xue Yu-nu told me She is 3 months pregnant Hello, sisters. The Queen Mother allowed her sister to be a sedan chair maid My sister went ahead. The villain succeeds Look at his eyes. He is now pregnant on his own. Finally feel proud How can I not be proud? Being able to give birth is a skill. The Emperor's birthday is coming up in a few days. Do you have a birthday gift prepared? Don't you know yet? The Emperor never celebrates his birthday No birthday gifts either. The Emperor Does Not Celebrate His Birthday Could it be that Xiao Yu has some knot in his heart? Get up. No need to be polite. Don't bring any food. I cooked barley and yam porridge for the emperor. I can't eat There's something else to go out. You go back to the palace first. This is the first time Xiao Yu treats me so perfunctorily What happened? Don't think too much, I just have no appetite Want to break a man's heart It is most necessary to help him resolve his worries. I want to understand his mind. Did something happen to the Emperor? Seeing the emperor sad I am also not feeling well. Follow me to a place This is not the palace where the Queen Mother lived when she was alive. It seems that this knot is related to the Queen Mother The Emperor is coming You're welcome, auntie. I'll go in and have a chat with my mother. You wait here for me. yes The Emperor comes every year on his birthday and the Empress Dowager's death anniversary. This is the first time I brought a concubine here. Is it my honor? Aunt Qin Isn't it the emperor's birthday? When the Queen Mother was alive The Emperor's birthday is always celebrated by the Empress Dowager. Later, the year when the Queen Mother passed away No one remembers the emperor's birthday The year the Queen Mother passed away The emperor is only 10 years old I feel sorry for the Emperor. No matter which little master you are I beg you to spend more time with the Emperor today. Let her not be so lonely I am Lady Ning from Lanyue Pavilion Please rest assured, aunt This is what I thought too. Your Majesty, don't be sad. I will always accompany the emperor. I am the Son of Heaven Men don't need to feel sorry. The emperor doesn't need But my husband needs I am very lucky to meet the King of Hell in this life The word &quot;favor&quot; Only favor is temporary Love can last forever Only hold the heart of the emperor My future path will be smoother. Xiaoyu's concubines in the harem are helpless Don't blame me for scheming against you. I still remember that year it also rained like this At that time, my mother was still Chen Xiao was caught in the rain in the dining room of Xiyan Palace The happiness of childhood is always so pure Rainwater is pure Rain always makes people forget their worries If the Emperor wishes Would you mind my accompanying you to step on the water? No need to worry about getting your shoes and socks wet Makeup The best and ugliest side of a woman It's for the person beside you. I'm not afraid good I've already drunk it. I have to drink it. emperor Wait a minute I want to give you a surprise. I wish His Majesty all the best. Long live the Lord I know that the emperor doesn't like to celebrate his birthday. But it's just a small bowl of noodles This is also my intention Just for good luck Look what you're doing. I don't know Your Majesty, do you think it tastes good? tasty Promise Minister Can you make one for me every birthday? I will definitely Yao En The Imperial Physician Xiao Chu, you woke up What time is it? What's wrong with me It's morning. My dear, you had a fever last night. Hot all over It frightened us and the emperor. The emperor is worried that the young lady is not feeling well I sat by the bed all night, watching over my little master. The Emperor is really worried about you. My Lord, please drink the medicine quickly. She has instructed Be sure to eat on time This way the disease will heal faster The Emperor did not sleep last night. Just to accompany that fox girl Bitch So many years The Emperor, in addition to this palace I've never been so moved by a woman. The Queen calmed down In the emperor's heart, the queen is definitely the most important And that life stone won't last for a few days. That's true. Go and invite him over too. See if there is any problem with the recipe my father sent me. If not That palace eats every day I don't believe I still can't have a child. I thought you were seriously ill. I didn't expect you to be so leisurely. Even when I'm sick, I still cherish your face But is your mask really that useful? I've been feeling much better after taking the medicine I developed this mask myself. If you can trust me I'll give you the recipe and try it. Yeah, okay? Then I'll try it Hey, today's greetings You don't know if you didn't come Those concubines are so jealous of you What about you? Seriously, Ning Shuyan I just envy you a little I didn't like you at first. But I've been in contact with you for a long time I think you are a good person. I don't hate you. I'm not jealous of you anymore No matter how much the emperor likes you That's what you deserve. Train Lanyue Pavilion Usually no one comes. I'm bored alone If you have time, come and sit down. Two little masters Jiang Xuexue's Blood Jade The woman is in trouble I heard that something that causes abortion appeared in the meteorite. The Queen asked all the concubines to go there Who did it this time? Logically, this baby was carefully taken care of by the Queen. There are people who can actually put things into their diet Then let's take a look Who has such a meticulous mind? You're not well yet. Why do you follow me? I'm fine now. Just now, I was in my concubine's palace. Came here with him. emperor Xue Yunu is not feeling well today Vomiting The imperial physician in his meals Found musk and safflower Fortunately, the dosage is small Discovery in time Xue Yu-nu escaped the disaster emperor I know that I am of humble status. Can give birth to a child for the emperor It is the greatest blessing Please don't have this child. You are carrying my flesh and blood. I will kill you The queen meant that someone in the harem had attacked I have checked the records of the Imperial Hospital in the past two months. Only Concubine Zhuang and the robber fish used safflower Queen, what does this mean? Could it be possible that this palace would harm a little girl? Your Majesty, you know I have been having irregular menstruation. It is normal to include safflower in the prescription for conditioning Besides, I don't want to use such means to murder the heir to the throne. If the amount of medicine in the meal is small That must be a daily trick. Then the person behind this must have some medicine left in the palace. It is better to search the palace to find out Start by searching my palace. search But I found Your Majesty, please let me plead guilty first. May I ask which lady lives in Lanyue Pavilion? Mr. Shen When I was searching I accidentally dropped the lady's bracelet on the ground. Please forgive me, my lord. Bracelet is difficult Nothing What the emperor is looking for should be in this bracelet This is Musk I don't know this bracelet. Why is this thing This bracelet is yours. You said you didn't know Look, this thing is most likely musk. Miss Ning, you are so brave Dare to murder the heir Miss Ning, you are confused. You know this is a big sin. Please, Your Majesty, make a decision for me and the prince in the palace. There is something fishy about this matter The jury is still out Even Miss Nie herself can't explain it clearly I advise you to get married Don't help the evil After the double flight, you will cry The Imperial Physician See the Emperor Your Majesty This pill does contain musk and safflower. It is said that its main function is How Ning Meiren, what's going on? I just want to ask the Emperor one thing. If I say this matter has nothing to do with me Your Majesty, will you believe me? The Emperor doesn't believe it Don't believe me, right? It's already this time I still hope that the emperor will believe you. Your Majesty, Lady Ning truly loves you How could she not want your child? Moreover, in this palace Having children means having someone to rely on Ning Meiren is not that stupid Your Majesty Although this pill contains musk and safflower And also added other angelica Poria and other drugs to cover up the smell Xue Yunu meteorite may contain Poria cocos and Angelica dahurica The Xue Yunu meteorite contains only musk and safflower poppy If this is really what you want If you invite This palace will definitely give you a lenient sentence I am wronged Although I wear this bracelet every day But I don't know how there could be medicine in it. Listen to everyone's pulse Check if there is musk in the body Your Majesty There are indeed traces of musk in Ning Xiaozhu's body There may be a major case Fortunately, Lady Ning does not wear it every day. Plus the musk content is not much No harm to the body It has no effect on fertility Fortunately, it was discovered in time, otherwise Queen Someone must be trying to harm me. Please, Queen, make the decision for me. Found out that He Today's Tea Ceremony It was originally about drugging Xue Yu-nu I actually smelled musk in my body Who can doubt me? But the musk and safflower in this medicine do have The Imperial Hospital also did not record Ning Meiren has used musk Then this medicine must have been brought from outside the palace I suggest searching the Moon-Raising Pavilion again. Lady Nie, you get up first This palace will definitely make the decision for you Where did Lady Ning get this bracelet? I don't know It was sent by the concubines in the palace. One day, I took it out and wore it on a whim. I never thought which palace gave me this bracelet. At that time, the gifts were all placed together I can't tell the difference. check I want to see who is behind this. I'll leave this matter to you, Queen. We must get to the bottom of this Harem incidents Queen, you are also responsible. yes I obey your order. Today's Events Lady Ning and Xue Yu-nu suffered great injustice Xue Yu Nu advances to the next level Paulin Ning Meiren advances two levels Named Xiuyi The character Zhao is his title The canonization ceremony should be held after the Mid-Autumn Festival. Queen, you should handle this matter yourself. This is as it should be Zhao Xiuyi was wronged today The emperor should make amends. I thank the Emperor for his grace. Thank you for your grace, Your Majesty. Ning'er, since you have been wronged I dare not Zhang Xiuyi is also tired I'll go back to the palace with you. emperor My concubine is feeling a little uncomfortable Have a good rest Children are important you say Who tampered with Xue Baolin's food? Who wants you to be infertile? My lady, this is the new maid sent by the Ministry of Internal Affairs yesterday. May I have your name Back to the master My maid is Lu Rui Serve well I will never be without you The benefits are I will do my best to do my job. Go check where this maid worked before. Who are the people in the family? What's wrong with staring at her all the time? I think Xue Baolin directed and acted in it himself You mean he hurt himself? How does this benefit him? First, pity Second, reverence Third, after this incident The concubines who wanted to take action did not dare to do so. Even if the emperor no longer favors Xue Baolin After all, it's his child. This seems to make sense. How many women in the harem are innocent? But you are now one of the nine concubines Other concubines will also be jealous of your position Stay still for a while When Empress Lu Rui went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs yesterday I saw him with my own eyes beside the eunuch. Pause for a while It seems that Eunuch Wang stuffed something into his pocket. My lady, I found something. At your bedside It's Concubine Zhuang Lu Rui put this pack of medicine on my bedside Just waiting for the Queen to search the palace today I just didn't expect my bracelet to get stuck and be discovered. Why did the lady say that to Xijieyu just now? It was directed and acted by Xue Baolin This matter Xue Baolin must have reached a consensus with Concubine Zhuang Xue Baolin's pregnancy was under the care of the Queen. Maybe there is also the Queen's arm behind Cheng Ying is a straight-forward person. Letting him know will only hurt him. Madam, do you want to choose a wrong place? Cut the green stamens out of the Moon-Raising Pavilion Now that he's here We have to make good use of him. otherwise It was also a waste of the careful thoughts of the people behind it. Where did that bitch hide the thing he was asked to put? Why is there a drug for clotting? The Queen calmed down As you can imagine There are still people in this palace who want Ning's life. Did you see how much the emperor doted on that bitch today? The finger is pointed at him He was actually willing to listen to his explanation Just ascended the throne a few days ago Today, I was promoted twice Surrounded Zhao Xiuye Will you be able to ride on my head in a few days? Magnolia Do you think he would steal my favor? How come? The queen has been favored over the years Moreover, the Emperor's love for the Empress The slave girl really saw it. The Emperor was very pleased with Zhao Xiuyi. It's just a fresh picture. The Emperor Arrives emperor I miss you so much Your Majesty, why do you reject me like this? Don't you like Ling'er? Ling Er Does today's ceremony have anything to do with you? Is the Emperor in your heart? I can't bear to answer like this. I No, not a concubine My daughter, please don't become the person I hate the most. I understand Niangniang You think the emperor won't doubt me? Must-see in Inu It's because the emperor cares about you so I don't want you to get involved in these disputes. It seems I was overthinking. As long as Xue's side doesn't give in You will definitely not find anything on this palace. Does Empress Yurui want to continue? continue I will never allow Ning to become the second Rong Fei The Empress' medicine bags and pills have all been burned. Um Keeping that thing will be a disaster sooner or later My lady, you can be selfish now. You are Aunt Xiu now After giving birth to a child, can the queen raise it under her knees? Not yet My child must be honored by his mother Must get Xiao Yu's infinite love The Queen has arrived Close the door of the Lazy Pavilion Just say that I'm not feeling well. Not suitable for meeting guests But what if I anger the emperor? You have to remember When a man is ashamed of a woman It's the best time to use Women should be weak. Be strong when you need to be strong The Queen Mother said she was not feeling well Not seeing anyone You are tired of living Dare to stop the emperor Yan Er opened the door I am not feeling well. Not suitable to see the saint Are you still blaming me? I dare not I'll see you. Your Majesty, please don't embarrass me. good Then I'm leaving Madam, please stop crying. My eyes are swollen Qiuyue, you don't know After entering the palace for such a long time The Emperor is the most important person in my heart. Every smile of hers Every time of tenderness will make me happy for a long time At least it makes me feel I am different in the emperor's heart But I was wrong This is all just my wishful thinking. He is the emperor I'm just one of his many women. For him It has always been dispensable I just hate myself for not striving Why does my heart hurt so much? If I could hurt him just once Since entering the palace All the arrows are aimed at me. Actually, I'm not afraid As long as the emperor has me in his heart Be able to believe me I think it's worth it But I'm tired I'm really tired I don't want to love you anymore He is in a strange job The Queen has gone Then take a rest You were frightened yesterday I feel better now. Thank you, Queen I'm much better. Concubine Zhuang looked unhappy. Are you sick too? Going out today Touched by an animal At this moment, I haven't recovered yet. As the saying goes Flies don't bite seamless eggs The beasts in this palace are all trained. docile and well-behaved Is it Empress Zhuang? Something dirty is stuck on your body Otherwise, why did this beast bump into you alone? Who do you think has something unclean on him? The Emperor Arrives See the Emperor How is your recovery? I'm much better. Queen How is the matter going? I am incompetent The murderer has not been found In the past, you were jealous of each other in the palace. Infighting I open one eye and close one eye Can harm the royal heir This vicious woman who framed the concubine I will never win From now on If this happens again No matter who Immediately banished to the cold palace The Minister Robs the Monster I'll take you back I agree. We will go to his palace together on the day of the looting. I can't go back to the palace with the emperor. Then I'll come back to see The emperor has never protected this bitch like this before. Why am I the emperor's favorite concubine? Ke Shuyan You asked for all this. You were really nice to Zhuang Fei today. I didn't expect you to have such a strong side. Low score from the previous No ability to refute I can only let others do whatever they want. Now if I am still weak and incapable Isn't it true that everyone can be deceived? There are many things in this house. These are not what I should have at my position. Do you know why? I actually thought about it for a long time. At first I thought the emperor had some affection for me. But gradually I found that this kind of friendship is not a love between men and women Like a kind of affection Because the Emperor, before my grandfather died Promise him to take care of me So his kindness to me is just a promise. Sometimes it's not so painful if you think more positively At least in this palace I am still a little special to the emperor Many concubines are not as good as me in this aspect. To seek love, first seek life Love yourself before loving others Now is the best choice Cheng Ye, you have helped me time and again in the palace I'm glad to know you In the palace, I am only close to you. Of course I'm going to help you Niangniang The Sheng family is already on their way Are you still closing tonight? Nothing should be overdone Otherwise it will backfire I have seen His Majesty. Are you still angry with me? I dare not I dare not I don't want to hear these two words What does the emperor want me to say? Ask if you have me in your heart Why don't you trust me? Ask me what position I hold in your heart Because I am nothing in your heart That's why you don't believe me, right? Do you really think that I don't have you in my heart? The emperor's trust is a luxury for me. Ning Shuyan I never take the initiative to kiss a woman If you have If you still can't get through I really can't help it Yan Er I am the emperor I can't treat you like an ordinary man. But I can tell you You are different from others in my heart. I promise you I will trust you and protect you in the future For an ancient emperor Can care and trust It's the beginning of liking someone Don't worry, take your time Your Majesty, please remember what you said today. The Queen no longer doubts me I promise you Your Majesty, please put out a few candles. I want to see Yan Er more clearly Fourth brother Come and taste the wine How about trying this wine? Rich and mellow Reminiscing about the past Your Majesty's wine is really good. Hahaha stop You raise your head Extraordinary beauty No wonder King Xuan couldn't take his eyes off her. The Emperor misunderstood I have no interest in this dancer. Weren't you looking at this dancer just now? Could it be that he has his eyes on another dancer? Just say it Today is Mid-Autumn Festival I will complete you Did the Emperor notice that I was looking at Zhang Xiuyi? It seems that the third brother is too embarrassed to speak. I heard that Princess Xuan came quickly. Then you decide for my third brother. Since the prince likes me Nature will not deny All is up to the Emperor to grant the Prince Well, in that case You clean it up. Then he returned to King Xuan I'm going back to thank the Emperor. She was supposed to be my woman. Legend has it that King Xuan swore solemnly that Only marry Princess Xuan Men's mouths are all lies You see, there are many worlds in the palace. He even fell in love with the dancer I offer a toast to His Majesty. I wish the emperor good health A letter of peace and prosperity good Just now, the Queen felt that there was something wrong with Tangshan. I think it's a bit strange But I'm not used to taking supplements. Did you find any problem? The servant tasted the soup Not that I think there's anything wrong. But the taste is a bit strange Madam's pulse is normal. If you are worried Do you need me to help you get the imperial physician? Not necessary today The emperor will be here soon. The wind is so cold tonight I am not afraid of catching cold even though I wear so little Do you want to see the emperor sooner? emperor You have worked hard before. How about I help you tonight? How to share emperor The maids at the Summer Palace said that Concubine Zhuang was not feeling well Please go and have a look roll This Concubine Zhuang really thinks I'm easy to bully I'm not mad at you. Why don't you go and have a look, Your Majesty? Otherwise, Concubine Zhuang will be sad. I'm not going I got it for him. But the emperor won't go Concubine Zhuang will blame me. He won't I will protect you Just now my Yan'er said she wanted to share my burden The emperor is really dishonest The emperor really said get out Impossible This is impossible These six years The Emperor has never treated me like this. The Emperor troubles Eunuch Liang Let Eunuch Liang go away Maybe the emperor really has something wrong That's why I don't come to see the queen. That's it. This bitch looks like a fox It's really not a good thing Madam, please calm down first. We have to be patient and drink some tea This plan went well. Deyi Not in the canonization Only you, my lady. She is the only favorite concubine of the emperor. Go get some cold water in the tub. This palace needs My lady, this is not okay. Go quickly. I'm afraid that Concubine Zhuang didn't snatch the emperor away last night. Sorry to come here today. May your Majesty be blessed with good health. Sit down, everyone. Concubine Zhuang has taken leave The weather got a little cooler today You should pay more attention Don't get sick like Concubine Zhuang. Princess Zhuang is really sick I don't know if Xiao Yu will feel guilty towards Concubine Zhuang. This is Ning Meiren He is a capable person. Even Empress Zhuang I couldn't get the emperor out of your palace. Before, Sister Zhao The Emperor is angry The emperor hasn't visited Sister Zhao for a long time. I won't leave for a while. It's also a dispute of reason. Besides, Sister Zhao doesn't know Concubine Zhuang is so seriously ill Right, sister? The emperor has been very tired recently because of the government affairs Last night, when Concubine Zhuang came to invite the Emperor The emperor has rested. So I didn't go to Concubine Zhuang's palace. The emperor has been busy with state affairs recently. It's hard to rest It's late at night again Naturally don't want to get up As for Concubine Zhuang Go to the storeroom later to get a Lingzhi Sent to the Yihe Palace to nourish his body. How could Concubine Zhuang be interested in this ordinary Ganoderma lucidum? Seeing this, one must be furious. Xiao Yu, on the other hand, felt that the Queen was generous. It is really not easy for someone to sit on the phoenix's tail It's time to take good care of yourself. After all, Concubine Zhuang had never been treated so coldly by the emperor. This is in my heart How uncomfortable it must be. Right? Zhang Xiuyi No way, I was just joking with you. You're pretending to be sick. She is as skilled as Concubine Zhuang. Quick Wear Imperial Physician Congratulations to Empress Zhao You are happy. You are happy. How is it possible? I just stopped taking contraceptive pills It stands to reason that it takes three months of nursing before you can get pregnant. Doctor Lu really didn't make a mistake. Although the little master is shallow But this happy pulse minister can still take it accurately I was so happy watching this that I was dumbfounded This great happy event must be told to the Emperor immediately. I didn't think about this for a while. It's so nice Now two concubines in the palace are pregnant You guys should take good care of yourself. Give the emperor a healthy and lovely prince or princess I just joked with my sister. Sister, don't take it to heart Your sister said it was a joke. I naturally won't take it to heart. You said this trick Xiuyi was originally the most favored one Pregnant now Will it suppress Concubine Zhuang's favor? Things change over time Flowers never last forever The Emperor Arrives See Your Majesty Now you are pregnant All luggage documents can be waived from now on I'm just pregnant Not so delicate It's true that a mother is honored by her son. I am very happy I am pregnant with the Emperor's child. Also very happy Madam, this is indeed a happy pulse. This child came at a really bad time. I don't want to get pregnant yet I'm not ready to be a mother yet I don't have the ability to protect this child. Now the queen is pregnant Don't think too much. If the queen feels strange I take your pulse every day. We know what has changed. That's all. Niangniang Lu Rui just wanted to touch the skirt you wore at the enthronement ceremony Stopped by a servant Then he sneaked out again Behind is Linglong I called him back. He's trying to do something to my skirt. After the failure, he informed Zhuang Fei Madam, you are pregnant now. If you keep green core by your side, it will be a disaster sooner or later. In the future, except for you No other maids are allowed to take care of my food and daily life And let Li Zhang continue to stare at Lu Rui I still have some use for him. yes Empress Yu Rui is here The servants meet Concubine Zhuang Your Majesty, Your Majesty, please don't be sad. Even if you are pregnant with Ning's skirt, you can't do it. What use do I have for you? Madam, I know I am wrong. I won't make the same mistake again next time. Get up, remember your previous merits I'll forgive you this time. When you came here today Was it seen by the maidservant? Report to the Queen The servants and maids in Lanyue Pavilion are all very stupid. I didn't realize that I was yours. Don't underestimate those people. Maybe when you touch their skirts today He was already suspicious. But it doesn't matter His good days are coming to an end. The lady said That was a good thing before. Yulan, go and get my golden hairpin from Buyao for your appreciation. Thank you, Madam I swear to serve you till death The canonization ceremony is completed No need to give gifts I hope you will be more polite in the future. To continue the emperor's lineage Follow the Queen's instructions Magnolia is consecrating today Compared with the palace back then Which one is more luxurious? Of course it's yours, Madam. But I always feel that the emperor treats her differently My lady, you worry too much. This Zhao Xiuyi has only been in the palace for less than a year. The emperor is just looking for something new Yeah, less than a year. This bitch climbed from a cripple to a Xiongnu My lady, he is standing higher now. The worse it will fall. snort Motomiya I can't wait Madam, your skirt is so pretty today The skirt is really long Xiuyi alone has such a big skirt If the concubine I'm afraid it's longer and heavier. It really makes me look forward to it I'm pregnant and I still wear a mask This is the mask I made myself. Natural and pollution-free The cleansing bath is good. When can a child vomit? It seems to be 4 months Although there will be morning sickness But am I really pregnant? Um, what are you thinking about? I'm wondering who the child will look more like. Whether it is the royal heir or the princess Of course, it would be better to give more to Yan'er. I'll stay with you tonight rest assured I'm just accompanying you Do nothing Zhang Xiuyi has become more delicate in this palace. Now you are pregnant We should pay more attention to everything Especially the first 3 months are the most encouraging Oh, that's right. I forgot Xue Baolin has been pregnant for several months, right? I'm starting to get hate again. I see your belly is quite big. I see that it is not only big Still round Then the emperor should have another princess. Whether it's a princess or a prince I like it What do you like? But some people don't like it? Right Your Majesty, Concubine Zhuang, was so rude and domineering today. He hasn't always been like this. But now someone can help me to annoy him. But Xue Baolin looks a lot rounder than before. Instruct the Imperial Kitchen to control the diet of Xuexuan yes My lady, I have heard that Xue Baolin likes spicy food very much these days. Folk saying: sour boy, spicy girl I don't know if this is true. Nonsense I have been waiting for so long. Could it be that the girl you are looking forward to is a useless one? Holy slave Shi Ye What's wrong Logically speaking Madam's pulse should be more obvious But the lady's pulse is a little lighter than yesterday. Do you think my period might be delayed? So the pulse diagnosis was wrong. But look at the lady's pulse The phenomenon of impending menstruation was not diagnosed No, I'm not pregnant at all. Someone wants to frame me The queen said this The slave remembered There is a kind of folk You can eat it The drug that allows women who are not pregnant to diagnose pregnancy Even if someone did it on purpose What does he want to do? Waiting for me to disappear Want to make me fake pregnancy to win favor Don't worry, ma'am. I will check your pulse tomorrow. If this is really a conspiracy I must find out sooner. Never let the person behind you get what he wants. Before reaching a conclusion I can't let anyone see the clues What's wrong? Are you feeling unwell? I have no appetite I always feel like vomiting Madam, please use more. Wushan is not used much That won't work. You need to eat more You are pregnant now Don't go hungry It turns out that the emperor is not concerned about me It's the child in my belly. I don't see you getting jealous on weekdays. How now She became jealous of the baby in her belly. Since I became pregnant The most common question I heard from the emperor was how the children were. How the child The emperor is concerned about the children. I didn't expect my Yan'er to get angry. This also makes me happy I will come to eat with you often in the future. Be more concerned The emperor treats me so well I like the emperor the most. The person behind this is really calculating. Once Xiao Yu finds out that Jia Yue Don't say ugly Life will be gone. Is the blood stasis weakened? Not only has it become weaker The jade vein disappeared directly It seems that someone really wants to harm the queen If it is not discovered in advance When the day comes that Yuezhi arrives He will still be able to diagnose that it is Jia Yun Jia Yun is guilty of deceiving the emperor. Once you sit back and watch this life There is absolutely no chance of turning around. Go and invite Aunt Ji over Try to avoid being seen. Your Majesty, I have discovered that your pulse is not that of a pregnant woman. To be honest I already knew yesterday that the pulse was relatively shallow. Today it's gone I want to ask Doctor Ji Are there any medications? It can make women who take it feel pregnant There is indeed such medicine But I have also seen it in the book As expected Can the doctor infer that When did you take it? I remember that the medical book once said Morning sickness will occur after taking this medicine for about ten days And can diagnose pregnancy pulse Just take it for half a month This phenomenon will disappear There was something wrong with the soup at the Mid-Autumn Festival banquet 10 days ago It is said that except for the queen, Concubine Zhuang also participated And the person who can tamper with my medicine It must be someone from Lanyue Pavilion Green Water Lady Who do you think did it? Who wants to kill me the most? The person behind Concubine Zhuang Whether it is Concubine Zhuang or the Queen I will return it fiercely But before that I have more important things to do. I want to be Qiuyue Bring me my needle and thread. yes Empress Xue Baolin is here He insisted on breaking in The servants couldn't stop it. I hope my younger sister didn't disturb Sister Zhao. How come this happened? I have nothing to do right now. My sister heard that my sister had severe morning sickness before. My sister too But after eating the plums that the emperor gave to his sister It's much better Sister can also try Li Er That's a coincidence. In the morning, the emperor sent tribute oranges and pineapples. Now my sister sent me plums for my baby I've heard it's more precious. The Queen can only take a few at a time. It seems that the emperor really dotes on my sister. This Gonggan tastes very good My sister also tried it My sister has a stomachache today. Can't eat cold food My sister finally became a favorite Or cherish your body Otherwise, I won't be able to serve the emperor. I just feel a little uncomfortable in my stomach. My sister went back first. My sister, the emperor is going to summon me to Zhaochen Palace tonight. My sister will go back first. Then I won't send you. Even if Xue Baolin is pregnant Not even a fraction of the favor from the Empress This is the reward from the Emperor I couldn't wait to show off Because for him Royal favor is too rare This is a reward that was not easy to obtain. I was so excited that I lost my temper The Emperor Arrives Why is the Emperor here? Don't tell me a word Xue Baolin's side He is not as important as you I heard you are still serious. Some worry I'm fine. The vomiting in the morning was quite severe. But now I don't vomit anymore Just right I have something I want to show His Majesty. Your Majesty, look at the size of this Is it suitable for our future children to wear? Did Yaner embroider it herself? Although I am not good at embroidery But this is for the child. The first piece of clothing I embroidered Yan Er will definitely be a good mother in the future I have to make good use of this baby in my belly To increase my status in Xiao Yu's heart Let him look forward to this child. Then I experienced the loss It's great that the emperor has you I want to make you heartbroken Make you feel guilty Make you really fall in love with me You robbed him of his favor. I'm afraid I hate you. I'm afraid I've already hated it. The person behind the scenes is indeed Concubine Zhong Because he knows I am Jia Yue So now I'm no longer sarcastic as usual. Not anxious or jealous Even excitedly waiting for the day when I'm exposed In a few days it will be the Queen's Thousand-Year-Old Birthday Can the lady handle this alone? But I need your help Just a simple family dinner Du Ruo, who is beside me, is also a capable Sister Zhuang Fei doesn't need to worry about it. Concubine Zhuang is looking forward to it That means we have to make some moves during the Qianqiu Festival. All the food and arrangements at the banquet Be sure to check it carefully Don't disclose anything. Especially the food at Xue Baolin's table I understand Xue Baolin's child is the Empress's child Now I just hope that he is pregnant with a boy What about Zhao Xiuyi? Zhao Xiuyi's diet must also be carefully monitored. He is now in love If there is any mistake This palace will definitely be involved. As for other aspects Just let him be. yes The Emperor and Empress Arrive I would like to see Emperor and Empress May the Emperor and Empress be blessed with peace of mind. Chao Xiuyi is pregnant The Queen is exempt from the ceremony. Xue Baolin is also Sit down, everyone. Thank you, Your Majesty Present my birthday gift to the Queen. This oriental pearl is round and lustrous. Flawless Thanks to the Queen's blessing Let me see it for myself. Thank you Your Majesty, I offer you a toast. Queen's Virtue You deserve it Xiao Yu said that this was because the queen was virtuous and she deserved it. You are not my queen. It seems that the emperor treats the queen just like this Zhang Xiuyi likes to eat fish maw Give him this plate of fish. The Emperor forgot I love fish, too. If you don't mind Let's eat together Qiuyue, I feel a little flustered I always feel like something's going to happen Don't be afraid, my lady. Look, there are flowers there. Ting'er Ting'er Your Majesty, our child will be fine. Don't worry, Ying Er Our children will be fine. emperor My stomach hurts Xue Baoling sees blood Immediately send the imperial physician to Lanyue Pavilion and the snow circle The Queen accompanied Xue Baolin back to the snow circle yes Your Majesty, you must protect our child. We must protect our children Grandpa is coming soon. We must protect the heir in Zhang Xiu's belly good Back to Your Majesty The baby in Zhao Xiuyi's body can no longer be saved Master Ji, you must have made a wrong diagnosis. This child can definitely be saved, right? Right? What's the use of you guys? I can't protect a child. Ministerial duties are urgent The residual blood in Zhao Xiuyi's abdomen must be removed as soon as possible. Otherwise it will be harmful to the body. Monk our children there is none left Don't be afraid There will be children Let's talk about Ling'er's health first. Doctor Xie Is there a way to turn your pulse into a sign of miscarriage? May I ask what the Queen wants to do? My luck has disappeared now If someone wants to make me fall Or something else Send another doctor. Then I knew that I was faking fainting Doctor Qi also understood the consequences of this fake pregnancy I only need to take the herbs that can promote blood circulation and dissipate blood stasis. Made into pills Just take it, madam. But after taking Yuezhi will also come And there will be abdominal pain Very good Then there is Dr. Laoqi. Don't be afraid, ma'am The servant is here Zhuang Fei's move is to take advantage of the enemy's strategy How is Zhao Xiuyu? Nie Shuyan, are you okay? Return to Concubine Zhuang and rob Yu Zhao The child in Xiuyu's body cannot be saved How is it possible? Why is Concubine Zhuang so excited? Why question it? impossible This palace is thinking that Aunt Zhou Xiu is so blessed. Could it be that the other aunt made a mistake? The fox's tail is revealed so quickly I'm sorry too. It's just that this kind of pulse will not be misdiagnosed by an old minister. What's going on? I'm not pregnant at all. How could I have a miscarriage? Could it be that Ji Tayi is his person? Help him hide the truth. The Emperor Zhang Xiuyi's pregnancy is a big deal The emperor should send another imperial physician to see Zhao Xiuyi. What does Empress Zhuang mean? Is this a small matter? Is it possible that Doctor Ji cannot diagnose it? Or does Your Majesty suspect that I have done something wrong? Zhuangfei Exit Everything I do is for the sake of the heir Another doctor to help with the discussion Maybe the baby in Aunt Xiu's belly can be saved. See the Emperor Bitch look at the picture Let you show your true colors What is the situation Back to the Emperor Zhang Xiuyi's child is gone I believe that Doctor Ji It's exactly the same as what I diagnosed. How come she's not pregnant? Why did the two doctors both diagnose as mild asthma? The two concubines heard it. Why should I listen to it again? This is an unacceptable fact But enough is enough I just want to see Can the baby in the womb be saved? I didn't mean to make Zhao Xiuyi uncomfortable. Shut up and tell me How did you fall? I will definitely make the decision for you and your unborn child. I can't remember I only remember that someone kicked me from behind. I don't know why I and Xue Baolin fell down together. Don't worry Our children No white eyebrows How many of you say How did you fall? Your Majesty, I am watching It's like he tripped over something and fell. I am also Whose thing is this? I see it is from Xue Baolin's shoes. Emperor Xue Baolin gave birth prematurely Bleeding heavily at the moment Queen Please go and have a look Your Majesty, why don't you go see Xue Baolin first? I can take care of myself. Let the Queen take good care of it Instruct the imperial physician to ensure the safety of the heir If Xue Baolin can successfully give birth to a royal heir All have rewards The servant knew it. Yang An took Xue Baolin's maid with him And shoes Your Majesty, this is what I, your servant, said a few days ago. I received it from the Ministry of Internal Affairs for my young master. The servant and the young master don't know either. These are so poorly made. Otherwise, the young master would not wear it. A few days ago, I and Lu Rui went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I have seen these shoes. Sister Yan Look at those shoes. They are so expensive. It really suits our queen. Why don't I help you get it? Okay, go get it. The queen is still waiting for me to make the abortion medicine I'll go back first. Um Your Majesty, Lu Shui did talk to me at that time. Sister Li'er What good stuff did you get? The pearl shoes specially left by the Ministry of Internal Affairs for our Lady Xue Our queen has never been like this before Thanks to my sister I can only see such chic shoes today Can you show me a closer look, sister? Okay, hold it well. Just don't mess up our little master. Bring that maid here. explain Did you tamper with Xue Baolin's shoes? No slaves are wronged. How dare you lie about the royal heir? The threads on these shoes were clearly tampered with beforehand. Tell the truth I leave you an interpretation I really don't know what you are talking about, Your Majesty. I have indeed touched these shoes. But just because it feels fresh Good to think carefully Madam, help me! This slave was really wronged. Lu Rui, as long as you can tell me who is behind this I can ask the emperor to spare your life Damn this bitch When did you know that there was something wrong with the green core? Fight until you say yes If this continues, I might be released. Zhang Xiuyi, I did everything with the support of Zhang Xiuyi. Ning Shuyan, you know it was me who did it, so what? The lives of Lu Rui's family are in my hands. He certainly knows what is important. Zhang Xiuyi, I did everything with the support of Zhang Xiuyi. You are talking nonsense. Our queen doesn't have No way, Zhang Xiuyi Why did you tamper with Xue Baolin's shoes? Xue Baolin's favor is average Is there anything worthy of Zhao Xiuyi's frame-up? Zhang Xiuyi, you are confused The Emperor loves you so much Xue Baolin's children What threat can it pose to you? Or did Xue Baolin do something to offend you? Xiao Xiaoyun, you can't tolerate any grain of sand in your eyes. The servant suddenly remembered A few days ago, our young master saw that the queen was suffering from severe morning sickness. So I gave the plums given by the emperor to the queen. Maybe the empress misunderstood it as showing off but The heir in our young master's belly is also innocent. you You're still weak. Don't get excited yet Does the emperor favor her to this extent? This palace treats you well Why do you want to frame me? Madam, please forgive me, I really don't want to die. Zhao Xiuyun, you are so brave When I framed Xue Baoling Did you ever think that this rainstorm would come back upon you? It's ok now Xue Baoling's difficult labor The prince in your belly is gone. You want to be a witch? Does my emperor still have someone to redeem? Princess Bao You followed Lu Rui's words to frame me. What is the purpose? Xue Baoling did show off. But I have a king The confidence of the concubine Besides, I am not a petty person. Talk about hate Why is it not Xue Baolin's blood relationship? And this concubine? emperor I know that I have no chance of having a child in my belly. But I will never allow anyone to frame me. Expectations for the unborn child emperor Do you believe me? Then take a look This size Much better and more comfortable than our future children I said I won't be careless again Yao An dragged him to the Ministry of Punishment No matter what torture You have to pry his mouth open. Once we find out that he is slandering us Zhulian Nine Clans Palace Maids with Erect Ears Gossip Thirty Strike Your Majesty, please spare my life. The slave is dead Mingzhi proves that I did not lie. Drag him out now. Don't be afraid, Yaer Those who had close contact with Lu Rui in the Ministry of Internal Affairs All sent to the Ministry of Punishment for interrogation As long as I'm okay There is still a chance to kill Ning Turn the tables What is that Princess Zhuang, this seems to be the gift I gave you before. I don't know I really don't know Princess Zhuang, do you think you can get away with it? It must be him He must have framed Concubine Zhuang. You disappoint me so much. Concubine Zhuang is so anxious Following Li Rui's words, slandering Zhao Xiuyi You are the mastermind behind this. If it weren't for the Emperor's clear judgment today Believe in Zhang Xiuyi's character I'm afraid Zhao Xiuyi will never be able to recover. Plus the miscarriage of the royal heir One corpse, two lives It's really vicious Concubine Zhao Since I entered the palace, I have always been respectful to you. Is it because I am pregnant with the emperor? So you're going to kill me? Concubine Zhuang Can you recognize the sin I'm jealous But I am just jealous Aunt Xiu took away my favor I just love the emperor too much. Is this the only crime you committed? Your Nangong family is really good. Your father was involved in a clique in the previous dynasty. Attempt to rebel You've disturbed the peace of the harem. This aborted child from the harem The dead concubine Do you dare to say that none of this has anything to do with you? I thought Concubine Zhuang was just arrogant and domineering. The sisters never argued with you. Qigu, you have done so many bad things behind my back. A matter of life How could you do this? Concubine Zhuang is bold and reckless Is there anything else I dare not do? Able to dispatch merchants from the Ministry of Internal Affairs at will Distribute the pearl blood to Xue Baolin The palace has so much power It's only you, Madam Zhuang. Is it possible that something happened to everyone in this palace? Was it all my fault? You guys can't wait to add insult to injury Everything you do is punishable by death. I miss you staying by my side for so many years. Leave you a complete corpse Nangong Ling Zijiujiu emperor Do you really not miss the old times at all? I gave you many chances Do not insult old love If you don't want to be decent I'll help you look decent Princess Zhuang, this is all your own fault. Yan Erchen avenged our child emperor I don't know what happened to Xue Baolin's family. I will go with you to see You are very weak Not suitable for walking My concubine's child is gone. The emperor's child is the apple of my eye. I want to go and see Good, my Yan'er, I am How's it going in there? Reply to the Queen The lady drank the abortion-inducing drug But there is a trick for difficult birth Before the Crossing When my mother gave birth to my younger brother He died in such pain. What's wrong with you I'm fine. Just a little scared Don't be afraid of my fate The woman who could bring down Concubine Zhuang The means are not simple The emperor gave birth Congratulations, Your Majesty Queen The young lady gave birth to a princess Congratulations, Your Majesty Princess Xide Very good all reward He's still young. I can still give birth to this palace and wait for you to thank the emperor Emperor Xue Baolin was injured due to excessive bleeding I'm afraid it will be difficult to recover later. After all, she is the princess's mother. Be sure to use the best medicine to protect Xue Baolin's health Zhao Xiuyi's importance in the emperor's heart is getting heavier and heavier The emperor actually did it for him Concubine Zhuang, who had accompanied him for six years, was sentenced to death Who knows if the emperor will favor his concubine and kill his wife for him? This palace must be on guard You are the Queen She's just a concubine. And now I have a miscarriage and my body is injured Greatly reduces the chance of pregnancy This is also before Concubine Zhuang died. Please help me solve a problem. Unfortunately, the Xue Baoling that I am protecting It's an unconvincing thing. It's time to go to Qiulan Palace to meet Concubine Rong Nangong Ling is dead Nangong refused to reply to the emperor I'm begging to see you. You dare to threaten me when you are about to die? Go to the Summer Palace yes I pay my respects to His Majesty. Tell me what's going on Your Majesty, you really came here to recruit Xiuyi I'm not here to listen to your nonsense. emperor The dying concubine Just want to ask one question Why so many concubines? Only special to her Is it because you love her? I am the underworld There will be no love It's not that the Emperor doesn't have love. I don't understand love. What did you say You called me Just to say these Your Majesty, why did you love me so much before? But once Ning entered the palace A changed person Don't want too much You have my favor But want to be pampered I have a special lover but I still want sincerity and power If you hadn't done so many evil things I will always treat you well But you don't repent Mistake after mistake You brought this upon yourself. emperor In this palace, only I love you sincerely. Queen, although he has you in his heart But his heart and eyes are full of his queen's throne Your Majesty, are you sure Zhao Xiuyi loves you? I dare to say All the women in this world But if you love yourself My husband can't tolerate him having other women. What is the difference between Zhao Xiuyi and the Queen? Your Majesty, can you really not see through it? Really stubborn emperor You don't have to give me poison wine. I know it myself There is only one dead end emperor I just want to ask you one thing These 6 years Has the Emperor ever said to me? There was a trace of sincerity good emperor I curse you I can't get the woman I love in this life In my next life I just want to be a good person Forever and ever Don't enter the palace again. Your Majesty, do you really think Zhao Xiuyi loves you? Take the Moon Pavilion yes Sit down without being polite Are you feeling better? I have been drinking blood-activating and blood-stasis-removing medicine. It's getting better Fang Caichen went to the Summer Palace Nangong Lin is dead Why doesn't Yan'er speak? Shouldn't we be happy that she's dead? Everyone is dead Let's bury that hatred in the ground. There is no need for me to bear grudge against a dead person. Yan Er Nangong has caused you great injustice this time. I am willing to suffer some grievances for the sake of the emperor Poor unborn child of ours. emperor Human patience has its limits I have suffered a lot at home. You are my concubine's pillow I should be the concubine who protects me. I don't want to be wronged anymore. It's really hard. Yan Er Promise Minister Will you stay by my side forever? I will protect you Wait until you feel better Let's have another prince. I will make you my concubine then. It doesn't matter whether she is crowned as a concubine or not I am afraid Can't get pregnant Yang An is too thin I'm going now Let Yang An take the best supplements from the warehouse Send it to Lanyue Pavilion How have I lost weight? Um It's gotta be a little bigger here. Good morning, Who told the emperor this? You are making fun of me I'll give you a month. If I don't grow meat I will punish you The Emperor is really kind to the Empress Good to take these Your Majesty will be healthier. Please see if this palace is suitable for an appointment now. The blood clots in the queen's body have been drained away It's pregnancy time My lady, have you figured it out? It's time I think next month, I will follow God's will. The servants will definitely protect the queen. Accompanying the queen to successfully give birth to the royal heir The Queen went to Qiulan Palace Hum, he finally couldn't hold it back anymore Queen You are finally here Did the Emperor agree to lift the ban? Queen Did the emperor forget about me? Where is the demon? How is she? Madam, you must help me I'm here to help you. Queen What do you mean? Concubine Zhuang is dead Now the harem Ning is the only one favored You targeted him before. Do you think the Emperor will let you go? No, I am the eldest prince's biological mother. The Emperor would never treat me like this. This is not what the Emperor meant. You want to kill me, right? Look at you in this cold palace. My heart aches Come to help you get rid of it You have no offspring for so many years. Now it threatens your position You panic, go on. My baby is under my knee Becoming the eldest son If this palace is for your children's future I would rather die You live One day, a child has an abandoned sinner Mother You are his roof. Yeah, now I can't go out. I'm not dead There are always stains on the child's body Even if the queen raised a child I won't be sincere to him. The Queen has never been a mother I really understand the feelings of a mother. You must be tired of pretending after so many years. Being the mother of a nation But without the emperor's favor You were once very afraid of Concubine Zhuang Now you are afraid of Zhao Xiaoyi again Nonsense As the Queen How could I be afraid of a concubine? Even without the Emperor What about pampering? This palace has status and power The Queen Mother later adopted You'er Please treat You'er well, Queen. Following a mother like you A child will never achieve anything great in his life. If he becomes my son This palace will not only treat him well He will become the prince. Become the next emperor That's good. If the Queen really treats You'er well I die with no regrets I don't need you to die now. When I and Shengxia went to Yichun Garden It won't be too late for you to die then. Queen Toddler always likes to kick the quilt in the middle of the night He is weak Please let Mammy watch over you. His favorite food is chestnut cake Eating too much can easily cause indigestion Remember not to eat too much He always likes to catch a cold in summer The youngest It's all my fault You must grow up well My mother is in the underworld When you ascend the throne Do you think you're feeling better lately? The doctor said, can I still get pregnant? It's no problem anymore The doctor said that as long as you take good care of yourself There will be more later Now the emperor only favors one person in the harem Although I'm not bad But it's better to have offspring after all. Why is there no movement in your stomach? The more I always Not even coming Plus now there are fewer pets Han will never have children in this life. You're still so young. You'll have plenty of opportunities later. Don't be so discouraged Dad, if you don't have expectations, you won't be disappointed. emperor Just now someone from the palace came to say that Concubine Rong had suddenly died. I know emperor I'm just thinking about the kids She has no mother after all emperor Young children If there is no mother to take care of you It makes people feel distressed. Your Majesty, do you want to choose another mother for your child? Or I will take care of Yue'er for a while. You are his stepmother. You take care of the children Justified I will definitely watch the child. Be a good mother if you go out I'm tired, let's go back to the palace Waiting for the Emperor The Queen finally got what she wanted. Now I am the only one who can threaten him in the palace. After the baby Check the area around Lanyue Pavilion every day See if there is anything unusual Especially water And diet is What are you doing? I like the facial mask I made. So, I am your concubine. Give him some more Your Majesty, isn't today the eldest princess's full moon ceremony? Why didn't you go to see the princess? I really don't want to go Ten days later The princess should be sent to Le'an Palace Every time I go Xue Baolin will kneel down and beg me Raise the princess on her knees Indeed, this is somewhat against the rules. I have also been considering who is suitable to raise the princess. Want to feed me In this harem The only one who can raise the princess is Yin Zhaoyi Lin Zhaorong also has a queen But I think Raising a child is hard. Most importantly You should find a mother who truly loves the princess. How could Yan Er forget himself? You can raise children. The emperor wants his concubine to raise the princess In my heart Yan Er is the most suitable candidate But I also want Ying Er to raise her own child I have a best candidate in mind. I wonder what the Emperor thinks. Who is What does the Emperor think of Cheng Yin? Cheng Yin's temperament is not suitable for raising a princess Cheng Ying has not been pregnant She is not like a concubine who is pampered and accompanied by the emperor. Although she is a little impatient But she is a good person The more impatient a person is, the less bad intentions he has. Moreover, I feel that after she became a mother The personality will become more kind and gentle Having said so much If I don't agree My Yan'er should be angry The Emperor is so nice Then my Yan'er should also work hard Give me a baby soon. Why not the emperor? Then I will make amends today. New mask is ready Thank you Ning Shuyan I won't be polite to you. Heard Xue Baolin's health has been getting worse day by day. In the royal family, the princess is always inferior to the prince Look at the death of Concubine Rong. The Queen can't wait to have the eldest prince Don't you think Rong Fei's death is very strange? Are you saying that Concubine Rong's death is related to the Queen? Before Concubine Rong's death The Queen has been to Qiulan Palace It seems that the Queen is going after the eldest prince. You said if the emperor knew Will she still be allowed to raise the eldest prince? I think the Emperor knows. But acquiesced It seems that the emperor still wants a legitimate eldest son Unfortunately, the Queen's efforts were in vain. This prince is useless. Just eating and having fun all day I know nothing about my studies But even so The Queen has someone to rely on. Not like you and me Chen Ying, I ask the Emperor to raise the princess under your lap. You will blame me What that Did the Emperor agree to let me raise the eldest princess? Keep the princess at your knees You will give birth to a prince in the future Best of both worlds Even if it is difficult to get pregnant in the future Then this princess will be the joy of your second half of life. The Emperor once said My mother, please raise my status. But but I have never been a mother I don't know how to raise a princess I don't know if I can bring it. This person is afraid of wolves in front and tigers behind. It's not your nature. Just say whether you are willing or not This child is very cute. I am willing to Happy today The Emperor has sent someone to tell me Respect you as Zhaoyuan And raised the princess I thank the Emperor and Empress for their grace. I will treat the princess as my own daughter. Live up to expectations Please don't give me any gifts. I will send someone to take the princess to Yushu Palace later. From now on, you will be the princess's mother. Nine concubines again I hope you will return to Suxian in the future Gentle by nature Take good care of the princess Don't forget the emperor's grace I will follow the instructions of the Queen. The Queen's words were clearly meant to knock on the tower. Don't be like Nangong Ling, who relied on his family background to show off his power. And to show her majesty as queen Is there any seafood porridge in the morning? I'm so hungry right now. I will go and warm it up for you. Oh, that's right. The Emperor will be here soon Remember to ask them to prepare the emperor's favorite fish. Madam, your appetite has been really good these past two days. It's winter, drink faster emperor What's wrong Xuan Imperial Physician Your Majesty, are you feeling unwell? There is a vague style of Zhen Ji Is it postponed for five or six days? Do you think it will happen? Your Majesty, do you think I am pregnant? I have a premonition There must be If not He must be familiar with it. The Emperor How is the happy pulse? Congratulations, Your Majesty Aunt Xiu It is a happy pulse Just a short time of conception So I just carefully called slowly But I can guarantee that it is happy and slow I got pregnant so smoothly. Good reward A full tour of Chen Yue Pavilion What's wrong? I'm so happy. Your Majesty, please call another imperial physician to take a look. I am afraid that Your Majesty will be disappointed. This Mr. Liu seems to be the Queen's man. The last time Xue Baoling was pregnant This is the baby that the Queen asked Master Liu to take care of. You're worrying too much. Is this really our child in her belly? emperor Concubine I was afraid that not getting pregnant would disappoint the emperor. Yan'er is very considerate Selected Doctors emperor Congratulations, Your Majesty Lady Xiu Yi is really happy this time Master Ji, are you sure? Is it possible that he took something? Any other reason? Caused misdiagnosis I think Zhao Xiuyi doesn't want me to I'm afraid of any accidents. Why don't you think this is a pregnancy pulse? I don't wish to have resentment. But I am afraid there is something fishy about this matter. I'm also afraid that I can't keep this child. You don't believe This is not what I meant. The emperor just sent someone to report The eldest prince has a high fever He kept calling me father. The Queen wants you to come over. Zhang Xiuyi, you disappoint me Your Majesty, the Emperor was very angry just now I thought the Emperor would forgive me. I didn't expect the emperor to leave only one sentence. Then he fled Blame it on the slaves If I take your pulse for the next few days, I will definitely know that you are pregnant. It won't surprise you. There was a conflict with the emperor I don't blame you. It's okay to have a quarrel While the teeth and tongue are still fighting A little quarrel Only one conflict Only then can we know the anger in each other's hearts The people in Niangniang Lanyue Pavilion are tight-lipped The servant didn't hear anything. Asked Dr. Liu She is obviously yours, Madam. He has been hesitant What they say about recruiting repairmen is just physical maintenance. If it is just peacekeeping Why did they ask two imperial doctors to diagnose? If it's really serious According to the emperor's favor to him How could you come to Feng Qigong so quickly? But not back to Lanyue Pavilion I always feel like there's something fishy going on Is he pregnant? No way, how can I not The emperor doted on her so much. I am pregnant But when the Emperor came yesterday Looks like he's not happy If Zhao Xiu is pregnant The emperor should be happy I hope he doesn't have a baby. The Emperor favors Zhao Xiuyi so much If a royal heir is born She will definitely be crowned as a concubine We can't let him continue to be favored. Du Ruo, I heard that Zhao Xiuyi was not favored in Ning Mansion. He and his aunt were bullied everywhere Go check it out for me. yes I heard that Zhao Xiuyi was unwell last night. I invited two doctors. Why are you here to pay your respects today? Thank you, Queen, for your concern. I am fine this morning. Of course, we must abide by etiquette I came to pay my respects to the Queen. You have always been so sensible Aunt Xiu's sister is really extraordinary Minor Illness They also invited two imperial doctors to diagnose Today's pulse is strong I'm sure The queen must be pregnant Baby Don't blame your mother. This is also the first time that my mother becomes a mother. Don't understand these I didn't know that I missed you so quickly Do you want to give your mother a surprise? Your Majesty, won't you come in? You said she was expecting this child. Madam Zhao Xiuyi and you are in perfect harmony She must be hoping to have a royal relationship with you. Maybe it's just because of the miscarriage last time. Some concerns? I know I'm just angry I'm angry that he doesn't believe I can protect them. Tell Master Liu and Master Ji to come and fill his glass again. Don't let him make any mistakes. yes Have you heard? Zhao Xiuyi is pregnant Didn't Empress Xiuyi just go into production a few months ago? This lady Xiuyi is so lucky I heard about this fetus. The emperor attaches great importance to Every day, he would send Doctor Li to check his pulse. Niangniang Now everyone in the harem knows that you are pregnant Um No problem Since you know Then I can protect this child openly. This palace does its best Command the Six Palaces Never had any complaints Why can everyone have a royal heir? Your Majesty, you now have a prince. Zhuang Xiuyi is no threat to you. Unless there is absolutely no I pay my respects to His Majesty. The Queen doesn't need to be polite Zhao Xiuyi is now pregnant again It's really cause for celebration Um Zhao Xiuyi's first pregnancy was not saved No supplement for offspring of the harem I hope the Queen will take good care of this baby. I have to take care of the baby now. I'm afraid I don't have time to split myself Zhao Xiuyi is still young She doesn't understand many things I'm really afraid that he will be ambushed. I don't want what happened before to happen again. The emperor cares so much about Nie Shuyun's pregnancy yes I will manage the harem well. Let the emperor rest assured Zhao Xiuyi Today Pregnant I want to make her my concubine Conferring a title of Minister with the Looting Fish emperor Zhao Xiuyi had been in the palace for less than two years. If you are now conferred I was afraid that it would cause jealousy among the other concubines. I'm afraid there will be trouble in the harem. I want It would be better to wait until Zhao Xiuyi gives birth to a child before advancing to the next level. No case Since entering the palace, Zhuang Xiuyi Pure and rhythmic Carry is a matter of course I also believe that the Queen will appease the harem for me The emperor has the final say. The emperor is firm in his attitude towards this matter You keep saying you trust me. If there is trouble in the harem now I'm afraid I have to take responsibility too. When I was pregnant The Emperor has never cared so much about me. Waiting for Zhou Xiuyi's enthronement ceremony At that time This palace will naturally have a reward Eunuch Yang, how is the emperor today? Madam, why don't you go and have a look yourself? The Emperor is also very concerned about the Empress. The Emperor really misses me too. If the emperor misses me Why don't you come see me? The Emperor must be disgusted with me Why should I bother him? Although the Emperor did not come to see the Empress But the slave can be sure The Emperor did not dislike the Empress Now the queen is pregnant She will be crowned a princess soon. Don't overthink Take care of your body Madam, would you like to go to the Zhaochen Palace and surrender? Quarrel is not scary What matters is how to make this fight meaningful. Can quarrel out deeper feelings The baby went to get my embroidery. The former Xiao Yu To me, it's just the emperor. But now he has another identity Became the father of my child Then I will slowly Slowly and bit by bit, I turned him into what I wanted I let you back off. Your Majesty doesn't want to see me. The concubine came in the cold It's really hard work The Emperor really despises me If I'm really tired of you You can't come in I know It's my concubine. Japanese hermit suspected of pregnancy The emperor is unwilling But the emperor never asked me why I was suspicious. Since that miscarriage I thought I was injured. There can be no more abyss But then the child came That's why I was more surprised than happy. I can't believe that God is so kind to me. Let me get pregnant with the emperor's child again I'm afraid this is a false impression. Let the emperor and his concubine be happy for nothing Why don't you trust me? Or do you not love me? The following answer It determined whether I had completely entered his heart. Or let this relationship fall apart Your Majesty, you are my only husband. He is a wise ruler for the people of the world. I swear I love the Emperor more than myself. Besides, how could I not want to believe the emperor? I also want to believe in Your Majesty wholeheartedly. But the emperor is the emperor I can't love only me for my whole life Without the emperor's care and love What if I gave birth to this child? How can I protect her and let her grow up safely? but I believe that Your Majesty can protect me. But the conspiracy in the harem is hard to guard against Your Majesty can't stay with me all the time. If someone wants to harm me No one can stop it How fierce is the swallow's hour emperor You said I don't believe you But the emperor doesn't trust me either. At that time The Emperor is devoted to his concubine Cruelly abandoned the concubine Don't listen to my explanation I beg you You cruelly threw away Are you really not afraid of hurting my feelings? Or You don't care at all This time it's your turn to answer I care emperor If you really care How can I bear to neglect you? Every day, I look forward to the emperor As soon as the concubine comes You mock me I shouldn't have come today. I was wrong Ying Er embroidered a sachet for me I still neglect Ying Er mother Stop blaming me, okay? How can I bear to blame the emperor? It's my heart that's heavy I am as terrified as I didn't consider it from the emperor's perspective. I have disappointed the Emperor. Don't be too hypocritical to Xiao Yu After all, she is the emperor. Give the steps and follow the chin I want her to feel guilty first and then feel sad You have to be both firm and gentle with men. Burial of a Woman I am not uncomfortable. It's my fault that the emperor ignored me. It's all my fault I'll let you calm down This is how I punish the Emperor. Xiao Yuruo, you are not the emperor Maybe I'll be more sincere to you. Less calculation Zhao Fei and Xi Zhao Yuan, please get up quickly Zhang Fei is pregnant Is there any discomfort? Thank you, Queen Everything is fine with me emperor I have prepared a surprise for my sister. oh Queen, let me hear it. The younger sister of the imperial concubine has been in the palace for a year Now pregnant again I think my sister must be homesick So he sent someone to bring his sister and her family into the palace. Now on the way What does Concubine Zhao think? I haven't seen my aunt and father for a long time. Miss you so much Thank you, Your Majesty Hello, Queen The Queen is interested Concubine Zhao is pregnant Now that the ceremony is over Then go back and rest. Queen, what do you want to do this time? emperor Yuer has learned a few new words recently I want to write to my father See if I can stay at Fengxi Palace tonight good Although not biological But it's better than nothing Aunt, minister and father, please come to see The Concubine Good night, madam Auntie, please get up quickly Is your Majesty doing well in the palace? Father, rest assured This palace is very good Your Majesty, today the Queen has ordered Your sister is here too. Long time no see, sister My sister looks so beautiful She is indeed Empress Zhao. My sister looks more outstanding Aunt I heard that the queen was seriously injured. It's better now. I vomited a lot before. It's much better now. This is good It is not easy for a woman to be pregnant for ten months My lady, you must be careful. The Queen knew that the Marquis and his wives had arrived. I specially ordered my servant to bring some things over. The Queen is so thoughtful Such preferential treatment for Yu Chen I am flattered Then I won't disturb you and your family. By the way, the Queen said that Miss Ning Er entered the palace for the first time. Thinking of the deep sisterly love between the Empress and the Second Miss So he allowed the second young lady to stay in the palace for a few more days. Let you guys reminisce about the past Reminiscing The Queen must have known about my situation in the palace. So let Ning Ruhai hate you I know. Please ask Aunt Du Ruo to convey this to me. Thank you, Queen, for your kindness. Yan'er Please take good care of Han'er in the palace. If you sisters serve the emperor together in the palace Support each other As a mother, I am satisfied Seven years in the city I have never heard the Marquis be so kind. Although the queen was once the eldest lady in the Marquis's mansion But now it is Concubine Zhao No matter what your status is, Madam Hou Once you enter the palace, you must abide by the palace rules. It's right to call her empress You dead girl Otherwise, the cake will be spread out. It will definitely make others feel that the people in Ningyang Marquis's mansion There are no rules for you I was so excited that I forgot to call you. Please forgive me, Madam. My mother has never been in the palace. I don't know that the palace rules are normal. But there are some things I still have to say This person in the palace must strictly abide by the palace rules and etiquette I have to say this in advance It is said that Ruhan insisted on staying Made a mistake that shouldn't have been made I will still blame you. Don't worry, sister Ruhan will listen to her sister in everything Okay, it's almost time. You guys go outside the palace and wait for me first. I want to talk to you alone. Your Highness is now the most favored concubine of the Emperor. My father was also honored as one of the three concubines It's really gratifying. My father is now a high-ranking official. Then we should always keep in mind the way of officials The emperor pays the most attention to the officials' benevolence and integrity It's natural In addition, the queen had promised to be a father To support your sister to become the emperor's favorite concubine Ruhan, please help me, my lady. Father Do you really think Ning Ruhan is suitable for this harem? I don't understand The official position my father wanted Family honor This palace can give you Why must he be allowed into the palace? Why Ruhan said that if he could not become the emperor's favorite concubine He would rather die My lady, he is your sister. Father You care so much about Ning Ruhan Who cared about me? You want me to give my sister Send it to your pillow How am I doing in the harem? Have you ever asked Do you really think it's so easy to be a favorite concubine? Saying the wrong thing in front of the emperor Will never turn over Madam, you promised me before Is it possible that I am going to lose my credibility? I can give Ning Ruhai a chance She was really favored by the emperor. I will ask the emperor to make her a concubine. But if she used some means that she shouldn't have used later Causing a disaster I have caused trouble for this palace. Affected the family My father should understand that day. I've been here for a long time. I'll leave first. Autumn Moon Clean up the side hall and give it to Ru Hanzhu Thank you, sister Sister, your dress is so beautiful. You didn't bring anything with you into the palace. I have some clothes I haven't worn yet. Just have someone clean it up You can wear it in the side hall. Thank you, sister When Concubine Zhao heard that her sister wanted to stay in the palace Is it a surprise? Concubine Zhao was able to keep her composure Can still force a smile Thank you for your kindness Then I will make him more grateful in the future Sister sister I heard that the imperial garden in the palace is picturesque. When will you take me to see it? I'll take you there when I'm free. Sister, is this all you know how to do in this palace? Reading and writing? How boring! The servant Ruhan pays respect to His Majesty Long Live the Emperor Ying Er feels uncomfortable again Xu just finished his meal The baby in the belly is making noise Is this your sister? Yes, exactly Since we are a family No need to be polite Thank you, Your Majesty. Like cold The night is already deep You go back and have a rest It's Han Er who has left. I want to take this opportunity to let you and your family catch up. I haven't been here these few days. The child is still obedient There hasn't been much noise recently. Still obedient Tell the Imperial Kitchen what you want to eat I have already ordered What fresh and rare dishes are there? I'll send them to you first. Madam Duoruo, Auntie, wants to see you Paying respects to the Empress Aunt Du Ruo, please get up. The Queen thought that Miss Ning was in a hurry to enter the palace. No change of clothes Specially made of fine silk and satin Bought some clothes for the second young lady I hope the second lady likes it. This is what the Queen gave me. The Queen is so kind to Ruhan Ruhan is grateful I'll go back with my aunt. Thank you, my lady Concubine Zhao finally woke up I guess you haven't had breakfast yet. You can dine in peace in the palace I will bring the second young lady back unharmed. Don't worry, sister. I'll be back soon. The Queen can't wait. The Queen asked the Second Lady to leave I'm afraid Um The Queen must want to reach some consensus with Ning Ruhan By the way, let the baby put down all the work in his hands Keep an eye on Ning Ruhan yes And from now on No one is allowed in the kitchenette The queen is afraid that he will do something Harming the queen and your unborn child I'm just in case The Queen is thoughtful He doesn't understand Ning Ruhan Don't dare to kill with a borrowed knife To avoid getting burned But there is one thing I can be sure of She is Captain Han Yes, the second young lady saw that you, the queen, were unwilling to help. I will definitely ask the Queen The queen is naturally Xiaofu's Superior He wants to see me get mad after I know this. One corpse, two lives That lady Do you want to tell the second lady the queen's purpose? The Queen thought so Seren to the Emperor Then I will take advantage of their trick Let our emperor see how virtuous the queen is. The emperor asked the servant to bring some food to the queen. Thank the Emperor on my behalf The Emperor is so kind to His Majesty These are the food that the Queen loves to buy in the Marquis' Mansion. Sister, I'm back. The Queen Mother kept me in the palace to talk Let me accompany you in the palace The emperor actually found a shit eater for him outside the palace The emperor is so gentle and considerate hateful If it was me who entered the palace The Emperor will definitely do the same to me. emperor Why are you running so fast? It's not like I only come here once in a while. Now I'm pregnant You should be more careful Am I just anxious to welcome the Emperor? I didn't notice it for a while I'm not blaming you You're just pregnant now. Be careful in everything And the weather is very cold Why don't you wear a cape? In case you catch a cold when the sun comes out I have to coax you to take medicine again. I see I'll pay attention next time. Nie Shuyan, you are really good at pretending I have never been so gentle in the palace. Could it be that the emperor likes such a woman? Ning Ruhan went to Fengxi Palace. But he came back soon. I guess the Queen has found a suitable opportunity There will be action Madam, please go to bed early today. Tomorrow is your birthday But it's strange There is no movement from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Emperor. The Emperor has not forgotten your birthday, has he? What if I don't remember? I like quietness It's my birthday, but I still put on a smile in front of those people Really tired emperor When did you come? The delicate orchid blooms and the aphrodisiac petals are green But I still want to stay in bed Your Majesty, why are you so cheesy? Where are Qiuyue and Ying'er? I let them out Today I came to Fujiya I'll take you somewhere. where You'll know in a moment. Hey, here Your Majesty, how can I trouble you with such a small matter? The Emperor I'm just his concubine. He is willing to treat me like this No, wake up, Shu Yan He just did it because of the child Between the soul Between Heaven and Earth Does the Emperor know how to draw eyebrows? I have never painted But for Yan'er, I can give it a try I believe in Your Majesty Um Graceful and soft Pure yet charming I'm only for Yan'er I doubt Qiu Niang is beautiful. The emperor's painting is very beautiful Yan Er calls me &quot;Emperor&quot; every day. But I call Yan'er more intimately Yuyu Lao Yan'er, look This is our new home You like it I pay my respects to His Majesty. Paying respects to the Empress I know that the owner of that palace is the queen. The emperor really dotes on her. That Zhaoyang Palace I'm afraid it can be compared with my Fengxi Palace. Zhao Fei is really a foxy I have never seen the emperor favor the gods like this. Ahhhhh The Emperor has never treated me like this before. But I am his legal wife. Niangniang Ning Shuyan I want you to have a taste The feeling of having your love taken away What's more, that person is your sister. Your birthday I don't know what to give you I had to build a palace But I still like it I like it very much The emperor is worried The previous Moon Pavilion was too small I have always wanted to build you a bigger one. Waiting for summer Yan'er and I can enjoy the cool in the palace. And these palace maids were also carefully selected by me. More beneficial for your pregnancy Thank you, Your Majesty, for your consideration for me and my unborn baby. So thoughtful I said it, idiot I will never let you down for your love for me. I will protect you Jade Lang You treat me so well. But I am afraid One day you no longer like me When I no longer protect my concubine Then why are you so kind to me? They will become sharp blades that hurt me I will protect you and your child in my lifetime. The Queen sent many gifts Although this palace was a gift from the emperor But now the emperor and the queen are one Then I will naturally go to Xigong to express my gratitude. Let's go I pay my respects to Her Majesty the Queen. Didn't I say that? You have a body now No need for courtesy Thank you, Queen Concubine Zhao is four months pregnant. The Queen has a good memory Exactly four months Sister Zhaofei is really a rare guest in Fengxi Palace Calculate carefully Sister, I haven't seen my sister for more than two months. Motomiya I haven't seen sister Zhaorong for a long time. My sister's voice is still as beautiful as ever The pregnancy of Concubine Zhao is now stable. Thinking about the future I should be able to catch up with my sisters more often. It was not easy for Concubine Zhao to be pregnant with this baby The emperor was distressed and did not allow him to pay his respects If the queen and the unborn prince are tired You can afford to offend I just want her to come to Fengxi Palace more often. Just talking to my sisters. Is it possible that you will get tired after walking a few steps? turn out to be Xi Zhaoyuan feels Paying respects to this palace is a very tiring task. Does Concubine Zhao think so too? Paying respects to this palace will tire the heir in my belly Queen As a concubine in the palace The palace etiquette should be strictly observed Xi Zhaoyuan is also worried about me and my unborn child. A moment of outspokenness Please forgive me, Queen. I know you are a sensible person, please sit down. By the way, Zhao Fei Your sister is lively and clever. I like it very much She can be liked by the Queen It's her blessing I am an only daughter. Unlike you, who has a younger sister since childhood I'm really envious. Remind everyone that I am a commoner Queen This sentence makes me feel ashamed. You are the mother of a country. Which one of us here is not your sister? The longer this time The more sisters there are Too many to count. No wonder the emperor likes it so much Chao Fei I also find your words very moving. I think your sister follows you. We hit it off right away If the palace is alright Then ask your sister to come to Fengxi Palace more often. The princess won't mind, right? Why would I mind? It's just that the Ruhan family is used to being willful. If there is any offense Please be more tolerant, Queen. Your Majesty, I pay my respects to you. Concubine Zhao is still in Fengxi Palace and has not returned yet. I'll wait here for him to come back. yes I'll do it This kind of rough work can be done by slaves Let you give me This gift from the Queen is totally unnecessary. My appearance and figure A hundred times stronger than the women in the harem Ning Shuyan can do it Why can't I The minister pays respect to His Majesty The minister pays respect to His Majesty It's you My sister will be back soon. Please serve the emperor first. Put your stuff here. I don't need anyone to serve me My sister also likes to read this book on weekdays The emperor and his sister are really in tune with each other Like a spring, thank you girl What's your name? My name is Ru Hai You and your sister Looks very similar Coco's father said There is some similarity between my sister and Ruhan's eyebrows You go down first I'm waiting here for your sister to come back What does the emperor mean? I don't think I look like Nie Shuyan Is this good or bad? It's the emperor drinking tea Ruhan resigned. Your Majesty, please forgive me. I didn't expect the emperor didn't catch it. Go down Your Majesty, please spare my life. Ruhan didn't mean it. Ruhan, go down now What's going on? Didn't mother say that there was a maid before? This is how I let my father take a closer look. Why is the emperor so unhappy? Tell your wife I'll come over at night yes The Emperor is gone The Emperor Just Left Said I'd be back in the evening Niangniang Just now when Nie Ruhan handed tea to the emperor Spilled tea on the emperor And he wiped the emperor himself The maid saw her like that It's obvious that she wants to seduce the emperor Is there something wrong with the Emperor? The emperor was very displeased Even the few words I spoke to the second young lady It's all because of you, Madam. Go call Nie Ruohan over yes Sister, please ask me to send you Ru Han is in the palace You've lived here for a long time. Stay longer I'm afraid people will gossip about it. Tomorrow the Imperial Palace will let the baby take you back How sister Ruhan still wants to accompany you in the palace You said you couldn't bear to leave me Wait for my sister to give birth to an heir Ask for the Emperor's grace again Let you enter the palace. No, I didn't get anything. I won't leave the palace. My life is like the sea Born to be higher than Ming Shuyan Why was he stepping on me? I'm going to ask the Queen He will definitely help me Then Haner will stay with his sister for one more day The Day After Tomorrow Han Er returns home Whatever Thank you, sister Niangniang The second young lady turned around and went to Fengxi Palace I gave him a chance. He chose this path himself. When he returns to the palace Take out his clothes and search them carefully. And where he sleeps Keep some yam powder on you. The Queen is afraid of the Second Miss I have a premonition There must be something unclean. Your Majesty, the Emperor sent a servant to tell you Just now, Feng Qigong sent someone to report Said the eldest prince missed the emperor Please come over for dinner, Your Majesty so The Emperor is going to come to the Empress's palace after dinner. I see Then please tell the emperor If it's too late, don't come. After all, the emperor has an early court tomorrow. It's the same anytime. Thank you for your understanding, madam. This queen is planning to stay in her own palace Push Ning Ruhan To the Emperor? What should I do now, Madam? After all, the emperor hasn't gone to Fengxi Palace yet. You will block the emperor on the way to Fengxi Palace later. Just say that I'm not feeling well. Please come and see, Your Majesty I dare not gamble I dare not bet that the queen just wants to introduce Or do you want to use some other means? Let Ning Ruhan become the emperor's woman It is said that this palace does not intercept Lost the bet This queen I want to make this palace feel uncomfortable and have a miscarriage. This is really painstaking. Want to help Captain Ning Ruhan It would be great if the emperor was interested in Nie Ruhan. If unintentional The Queen is in trouble. Go and get me my mirror and my makeup powder. yes Will the Emperor come? meeting emperor How come you are here The maid beside you told me Say you're not feeling well I'm worried I'll come and see you You guys are so brave. Who asked you to invite the emperor? This palace is just after morning sickness Just a little dizzy and weak What are you asking the Emperor to do? Okay, stop suffering. He only asks me because he cares about you too much It's you If you feel uncomfortable, please tell me immediately. I know. Don't worry, Your Majesty The emperor hasn't had his meal yet. Why don't you have your meal here? Okay The second lady just returned I heard he had a big temper. How is the inspection? The queen guessed right He has a love affair with him But I will do as you say. Replaced some Now it can only play a three-point role Well, success or failure depends on tomorrow. Um Ying'er went to ask the small kitchen to cook some yam and lotus seed porridge. Sent to Zhaochen Hall yes My sister is going to Zhaochen Hall Um But I feel weak today. Just let one or two go over and deliver it. Sister, I'm leaving tomorrow. I want to go to the Imperial Garden later. How about I run a trip for my sister? That's fine. Then please go there for me. Don't worry, sister The child must be sent to the emperor before leaving This palace is naturally relieved Sister Yang specially ordered the small kitchen I cooked some yam and lotus seed porridge Let me take it to the Emperor. Thank you, Miss. Ruhan pays respects to the Emperor My sister asked Han'er to bring some porridge to the emperor. Put it here My sister said let the emperor drink it while it's hot He also asked Han'er to watch the emperor finish drinking before leaving Okay, you can go back to the palace and report to your sister. It's a concubine Xiao Yu Don't let me down Your Majesty, please let me serve you well. emperor What did you do to my porridge? I don't If I knew you tampered with the porridge I will chop off your head myself The Imperial Physician Your Majesty, what happened? Back to the Queen This second lady Something unclean was put into the emperor's porridge How dare you drug the emperor? Yin Ruohan, are you tired of living? Emperor Min Ruohan is Concubine Zhao's sister I will invite Concubine Zhao to come over. Yin Ruohan, this idiot How dare you ask the emperor to give you medicine? If it is found that this is the medicine I gave him emperor Your Majesty, this bowl of wine contains a drug that makes people fall in love. Ning Ruhan Your Majesty, please spare my life. I was just confused for a moment. Chao Fei is your kid How can you have such a thought? Are you worthy of your sister? No conscience Order me to be in the sea, this is the quiet palace If you were not a concubine Nothing Where did it come from? Do you know that you saved this trick? Not only will it harm your sister It will harm your family. I used to think you were well behaved. I didn't expect you to be so bold. Tell me where you got this medicine from. yes My sister gave it to me. Your sister gave it to you Why did your sister give you this? My sister said that the new bride will enter the palace next year We are sisters Only by supporting each other can we maintain our prosperity emperor Do you remember that day when I served you tea in Zhaoyang Palace? In fact, my sister deliberately didn't return to the palace that day. To give me a chance I didn't expect that Your Majesty had no feelings for me. So today my sister wants to help me again. I remember The precious concubine of the previous dynasty let her sister enter the palace He then presented the flag to the late emperor. Afterwards, the two sisters were quite favored The family also became prosperous. I think Zhao Fei's sister also feels that she is pregnant. Can't sleep with you Rather than giving the opportunity to others Better leave it to your sisters. My sister did say this to me. Like Korea What happened? Sister Haner has failed your expectations of me A few days ago Nie Ruhan told me that you wanted her to stay in the palace. I didn't think much about it at the time. I didn't expect Zhao Fei You actually let your own sister Serving the Emperor with you She was also asked to give the emperor a drug snort I think it's because Concubine Zhao is pregnant. have a bee in one's bonnet Confused for a moment Please, Your Majesty, be lenient with me for the sake of my heir. I just ask you one thing Did you give that medicine to Ning Ruhan? emperor Are you suspicious of me? I dare not I won't do that either. Others do not understand my feelings for the emperor. Your Majesty, don't you know yet? How could I betray my own sister? Push it to the person you love? Yaer Get up quickly I said I won't doubt you anymore. very good Abuse of private drugs to frame concubines Crime of deceiving the emperor Is it true that Concubine Zhao is totally unaware of this? It seems that the Queen still has doubts about this matter Well, I have a problem. I must ask clearly today I asked you where this medicine came from. I want to hear the truth Otherwise, don't blame me for not considering sisterhood. yes Since your sister doesn't know Then you should hurry from It's good to invite trouble Suffer less It is the minister who covets It was secretly brought in from outside the palace by a servant. Brought back from outside the palace You don't know why you want to stay in the palace with that thing. As long as there is a chance I won't let go I was planning to ask you to let me stay in the palace. But I never thought that even God was helping me I want you to tell me Where did this medicine come from? And you're a girl. How did you know this dirty trick? Or is there someone helping you behind the scenes? I ordered someone to secretly buy it from a vendor outside the palace. Who is helping me behind the scenes? My good sister You won't even help me Who else will help me I think it's a bit strange Ning Ruhan has always been willful and domineering at home. Why is he so close to the Queen? Even better than my sister. I just don't know how to contain this thought The Queen knows Yuan 2 She is your sister And to slander you I leave it to you Whether the emperor wants to execute Ning Ruhai Or do you want to hide this? The emperor and I are of the same mind. Princess Zhao is fair and impartial It is truly a model for the six public officials Since his hands and feet are not clean He broke his hands Beat him 30 times and send him back to Ningyang Marquis' Mansion. Sister, sister I was wrong, sister. I am your sister I don't want to be hit Sister, now I think of me as your sister In Ningyang Marquis Mansion Have you ever thought of me as your sister? I tell you There is only one master in this palace. That's the Emperor Whether it's your life Or the life of Ningyang Marquis All in the hands of the Emperor This life is wasted Your Majesty, the medicine was given to me by the Empress I'll wait for you. You should think twice before speaking You can't slander this palace As long as you tell the truth I promise you can forgive you This medicine was indeed given to me by the Queen. The Queen knows that my sister and I are at odds. So, you use me to disturb my sister's thoughts. It would be best if my sister and the prince could both die. ah As the Queen Why use this method? I see You must have conspired with the imperial concubine to slander me. emperor Queen You knew from the beginning that you wanted to recruit Liang Qian Disharmony between Even like fire and water The emperor's concubine was born in the palace How can I know If I know you I will not let you go into the sea and leave you in the palace The Queen keeps saying that she doesn't know what's going on outside the palace. Then why did Ning Ru enter the palace? Why did you tell me in person? They said the relationship between the two sisters is very Good Emperor I have been imprisoned in the palace for 9 years. Your Majesty, don't you understand how I behave? These years have really opened my eyes. I didn't expect that the Queen Mother thought that the actors in the palace would perform emperor You just hope you can Queen Your righteousness Is she a vicious woman who framed and killed a despicable and light person? What you are doing now is not worthy of me. She is not even worthy of being called Queen. emperor You must abolish my concubine This is all your own fault. Your Majesty, you cannot abolish me. I am the Empress of the previous Emperor's Palace. There has never been any mistake in the palace for so many years. You can't just rely on the one-sided words of a servant. I will convict you. After the abolition In addition to these civil and military officials Ordinary people will find it absurd Childless and jealous Give Concubine Zhuang contraceptive medicine Murder of the Royal Heir Framed concubines The eldest prince's adoption and the death of Concubine Rong These are one by one Have I wronged you? The Emperor knows everything It turns out that Doctor Liu is the emperor's man Empress Feng was confined to Feng Qigong I won the Queen after all Nine years Whether it is in Feng Mansion or Wang Mansion Or the palace? This palace is the most noble woman Is it spreading in the palace now? This palace is going to be abolished. Don't worry, Madam As long as Duke Feng and the eldest prince are The Emperor should not be able to depose the Empress I lost I lost completely but Go and invite the emperor I have important things to do. yes Bud I will definitely depose the queen I figured it out To live and die with the one you love Yue Lao I didn't understand the love between men and women before. Now I understand I don't want to leave any regrets I think my righteousness is what I love in my heart. Even if I die Buried in the same tomb Xiaoyu, this is confessing to me After the Concubine, I will make you the Queen Our child is also a noble legitimate son Yue Lao I like that Your Majesty treats me like this. But I never thought of becoming a queen. Since we can't be together forever Why should I be the legal wife? Silver You don't want to be my wife Don't you want to be buried with me a hundred years later? emperor The maid from Fengqi Palace came to deliver a message The Queen wants to see you. not see But the maid said The Queen Mother asks the Emperor to consider our long-standing friendship To see him for the last time He also asked his servant to return this item to the emperor. He was relieved about the abolition of the empress I have only two questions for His Majesty. emperor You go The Emperor is coming I remember when the Emperor first came to the palace As the Queen The Emperor held me hostage and received the respect of all the civil and military officials. You said that I must be a very good queen yes But you disappoint me so much I disappoint you. emperor Over the years I have worked hard to manage your harem. Choose your family Watching you favor one after another Your Majesty, please speak with your conscience. Have I ever had any complaints? If I can't be a good queen So who does the Emperor think can Zhao Fei? No matter who it is It has nothing to do with you. Feng The Emperor and I have been married for nine years emperor Do you still remember my name? You called me today Is that what you're talking about? emperor There is so much meanness Why did the hidden book and words enter your heart? The concubines who opposed him this year Which one has a good ending? Just your identity and favor It's not you shut up I think the queen has lost her mind. Today is the last time I see you Wait for the Queen's order. emperor I think it's ridiculous. You are the emperor Many concubines But I fell in love with a woman who didn't love me Listen to Eunuch Yang Before the Emperor went to seal the West Palace I specially asked the imperial kitchen to make porridge for you. The Emperor is really good to His Majesty Think about it This year Xiao Yu is really getting better and better to me On the contrary, I have been calculating Very little is given to him Now he is really devoted to me I should also be nicer to the Emperor. Your Majesty, just now Eunuch Yang sent a message saying His Highness fainted in Fengxi Palace Now in the Hall of Recruitment Go to the Zhaochen Palace emperor Your Majesty Your Majesty emperor How could the emperor be poisoned? The emperor was poisoned I am incompetent and have no antidote I'm afraid the emperor will never wake up again. Very likely Your Majesty only has three hours left Queen, you have a cruel heart. How can you bear to attack the person next to you? It's not your turn to teach you a lesson. Hand over the antidote I will make your crime known to the world. Antidote The palace has been destroyed. Motomiya The Emperor was buried with me Hahahahahahahahahaha Ting Er emperor Let them all go out I want to talk to you alone You guys go out You said you would always protect me If you break your promise I will never forgive you Yuaner I am here, I am always here From now on, as long as you want to see me I have always been here mother I still remember the first time I saw you In the crabapple blossom cluster That Night I feel You are the only person I miss in my life Return to me Minister in the Royal I don't understand the relationship between men and women If I had known earlier My own heart We will never waste every moment we are together. Yue Lao wants to see my concubine I will always be with you Chastity You have to be well Give birth to our children For me Watching him grow up safely This Road I can only accompany you here. emperor I don't know I have actually hidden a lot of things from you. I have done many things wrong. Yan'an You don't have to say I know all In my heart You are always the best The luckiest thing in my life Lan Zhan has one more thing to ask you If I give you another chance to choose You would like Be my queen Be my wife? Imperial Physician Zhuang I'll see you when I wake up very nice I will make barley porridge for His Majesty. I can enjoy the porridge cooked by Yan'er again This happiness Fortunately, Doctor Ji arrived in time that day. Using poison to fight poison Only then can the poison in the emperor's body be forced out So I can only eat light food. Now the Feng family has been cut in half The Queen's seat is vacant. Does what Yang Er promised me that day still count? count I want to be Yulang's wife Together Forever ah What's wrong stomachache But the child kicked you. It's not someone else It seems that someone is about to give birth. Imperial Physician