It's summer 1944 and allied paratroopers, prepare for the invasion of Europe. Their and liberate occupied France. But this isn't invasion fleet is heading not for Normandy, By summer 1944, the Allies are advancing all over in Italy - the so-called "soft underbelly of the forcing the Germans to retreat up the peninsula. fighting in Normandy had been fierce, and in Italy terrain, with the formidable Alps still looming One promising avenue of attack is the riviera planners had drawn up plans for an invasion dubbed to Overlord in Normandy. Although the main landing Toulon and Marseille remain tantalising targets. a southern French landing. British Prime Minister the forces for Anvil would be better used pushing would allow allied troops to enter the Balkans - doctor Lord Moran can see the Prime Minister "Winston never talks about Hitler these days; he dreams of the Red Army spreading like a cancer obsession and he thinks of little else." (Cross) more focused on winning the current war. With his logistical routes and more forces in France. National Liberation leader Charles De Gaulle. He general lead the overall operation. The US refuses Toulon and Marseille and eventually be formed the French Army B is subordinate to the US de Lattre de Tassigny has plans to break free "Whatever the cost, I had to escape south of the Alps - and with the least delay, In early August, the British Chiefs now renamed Operation Dragoon. The name although Churchill jokes it's because he's Commanders set about planning the invasion, details right. Three US divisions will lead forces - many of which are African units. repel the anticipated German counterattack expect that overcoming German resistance and Southern France had been part of but this changed in 1942 as German country. By 1944 German troops and General Johannes Blaskowitz's German Army Group G 230,000 troops, although only 30,000 of these are giving the defenders a significant advantage. can't be sure exactly where or when it will come. Group G has been stripped of its best units Normandy. By August, two-thirds of Army Group where much of it is lost in the Instead, the Nineteenth Army defending the poorly equipped and motivated garrison units. units don't have their own transportation. conscripts from Eastern Europe including Russians, some are ethnic Germans, the multinational force Josef Kirsner, a Bavarian serving with "In my company, except for a couple of older eighteen years old. A lot of men were from Upper drafted into the German army. They could speak and I couldn't understand anything they were and because they had a grandfather or grandmother German army, or they had volunteered for the The only armoured force available to the up partly of Eastern Front veterans, it's well To compensate for their weakness, the German massive minefields and beach obstacles. Even so, which means the fortifications are incomplete, Grossjohann of the 198th Division is worried: in 1940, we should have known better the defensive conditions of the Mediterranean with those on the Atlantic... It was obvious the first attack. So why should one expose it In 1942, serving in Southern France had been a and coastline were perfect for worn-out units to a hive of resistance activity - and the allies The French resistance - which is a mixture 75,000 members in Southern France, Their numbers increased rapidly following the system of forced labour for the German war control the countryside of Provence. Their units to stay in fortified garrison towns In July 1944, resistance "The Germans are practically prisoners in their for supplies or on a reprisal expedition --and one out of every two times, by an uncatchable the German soldier is bewildered, steal his mail . . . They awaited the arrival of The British Special Operations Executive and local resistance organisations and improve help plan and coordinate resistance activities, combat missions. Soon, numerous networks known as before and during Dragoon, they are expected and prevent the Germans from destroying Resistance fighters are also to assist Allied Dragoon's D-Day. In the early morning, American Japanese-American battalion - plan to land and on the approaches to the invasion beaches. They and together their goal is to slow or prevent Despite the detailed planning, the drop in Thick fog obscures the drop zones, and only 40% of However, this has unintended benefits. The German which limits their response. British and local resistance and carry out improvised attacks, to surround and cut off German General Ferdinand Seaborne and commando units also play a role First Special Service Force attacks German and the French African Commando Group Casualties are light for both airborne and do capture the French Naval Assault Group New York Herald Tribune correspondent Homer "Reverting to Indian style warfare, three faces with paint and charcoal, paddled in rubber Ile de Port Cros... Long trained in mountain and wrestling with a dense tangle of undergrowth of strong enemy positions dominating the only The pre-invasion raids on August setting the scene for the main the three invading Allied infantry The landings take place at three separate at beaches code-named Alpha, Delta and since the Germans have strewn the area with naval 140 Allied minesweepers clear the area, but releases radio-controlled Apex drone boats explosives. These are intended to crash into reliability leaves much to be desired. One rogue Allied warships and aircraft support the attack landings. An armada of 900 ships provided fire Bob Farris, a crewman on a tank landing ship, "[Our ship] was directly between the beach go with her big guns you could feel the pants would move as if they were in Smaller rocket landing craft aircraft carriers also blast the beaches and At H-hour, landing craft approach Alpha and Duplex Drive tanks. As Allied troops come ashore, pre-invasion barrage had swept away unreinforced Louis R. Harlan, who lands at "We spotted a few German dead on the beach four American casualties... To our right was a attitudes all around the gun like rag dolls been hit by naval gunfire before any Americans Most of the US casualties on the beaches But not all landing beaches enjoy the same proves a more significant obstacle. Located on this area are limited by the harbour and cliffs. fortified with German sea mines, tank traps, and machineguns. The Germans even fortify Camel Red is also one of the since two major roads meet in the town When Allied minesweepers approach the beach, they can complete their task. The pre-invasion defenders here, and as landing craft assembled to Just moments before the invasion is due to start, overseeing the landings, orders the Camel Green - which has already been cleared. Allied invasion but US VI Corps commander General change of plan delays the capture of the Frejus fleet and prevents close air support. "[The decision] was a grave error and most certainly no congratulation... Except for it might have made even graver A single German Dornier Do 217, likely from the success of the day. It uses a radio-guided HS the cost of 40 Allied casualties. Lieutenant "A bright red, flaring, rocketlike object . . . twin-rudder plane. The object was apparently the plane and downward on the same course as the 90 degrees to starboard and apparently headed were seen coming from the tail of the object, Historians will not share Truscott's landing beach likely saves many lives on would be captured any sooner had Camel Red days to clear the beach defences even after With the invasion troops ashore, advance block major routes to the beaches. They now remains light. Sensing an opportunity, the US capture Le Muy. Meanwhile French forces come The Allied invasion causes chaos in the German command only confirms the invasion at 1030 on but it's too late, and Allied troops quickly break on their maps, but often the enemy has already of the Durance River and pursuing withdrawing out long enough for the 11th Panzer Division to As the Germans withdraw up the Rhone Valley, are to protect the flanks of French forces which simultaneously. Hitler has ordered the garrisons poor defences and an increasingly hostile local against the German garrison and help French forces In both Toulon and Marseille, the Germans commanders urge caution, but exuberant a demoralised enemy. By April 23, large Meanwhile, to the north, the Nineteenth German newly formed American Task Force Butler pursues Americans expected a German counterattack ammunition over fuel for the invasion plan. cut off the German withdrawal from the so-called area consisting of both rugged hills and flat cut the N7 highway and Drome River crossings, into the hills and along the banks. Fierce Sauzet and Puy St Martin. US troops put up enough to hold them. Instead, they plaster the support units run a gauntlet of fire as they Local German counterattacks achieve some success, to take advantage of the fragile US position. fully surrender by August 28, ignoring Hitler's French casualties and resulted in 28,000 German The next day, the Nineteenth Army starts its pursuing US troops back, as German units north. St. Vallier's parish priest describes "Night of 30/31 Aug. A terrible storm. But cries of riders, and especially of men on foot, for a lift. The [resistance] open fire on... the the mayor... Rain, thunder. The Germans screaming he comes down, they demand 15 hostages tomorrow at they'll burn down the village." (Funk 174) success. The Americans destroy but significant groups, including 75 percent The Montelimar battle and liberation mark the end of Operation Dragoon. The capturing Lyon and joining up with According to historian Samuel Eliot Morison, casualties. He called it "an example of an almost view of training, timing, Army-navy-Air Force 122) In particular, the invasion drew on and invasions, like Sicily, Salerno, and Normandy. Charles De Gaulle. After French forces they had now decisively participated in the were eventually formed into the 1st French to his legitimacy and political aspirations. French armoured forces had been sent a stronger blockade could have been established trapped. Although allied improvisation resulted miscommunication and indecisiveness, it's not clear if the Allies could have overcome Contemporaries and historians have also debated Allied victory. Field Marshal Montgomery even moved into Normandy, the Western Allies could is unlikely, as the northern French ports were Meanwhile, Marseille alone would eventually import for half a million more troops to enter the fight. the German forces in France. Following the the German high command advised Hitler to With the Red Army's Bagration offensive cutting liberation of France, the scene was now set In early 1945, the Allies set their eyes on the gearing up for their Berlin Operation. The set-piece battle in the west, and the Battle of Allied soldiers stood at the ready to bring reserves would have to defend. If you are curious War 2 documentary series that together run for Battle for the lower Rhine from the Reichswald at that involved the biggest single day paratrooper we document the entire two week Battle of Berlin on original location, feature expert guests like the Tank Museum and they show the Second World War to show on YouTube. So where can you watch 16 a streaming service we built together with other the algorithm or advertiser guidelines and the watching our videos - which by the way are ad-free you head over to nebula.tv/realtimehistory subscription right now and watch 16 Days in Original series Red Atoms about the Soviet Nuclear number of Nebula Originals, your subscription kinds of different skills from Nebula creators for 40% off on annual subscriptions and As usual you can find all the sources for If you are watching this video on Patreon or we couldn't do this without your support. about the Battles of the Bulge and Iwo Jima. of Real Time History, the only history channel