Today, I'm on Bowser with the Standard ATV, All right, I'm on the lowest handling vehicle. so this turn isn't too bad. It's a bit slippery, I... okay, I'm gonna go wide for coins here U-turn goes. I'm not going to take the shroomless Are you kidding me? No, what is this? [laughs] I sharp of a turn. It is a U-turn, but like, it's out of my way. I'm... I'm bagging. I have to do normally. [laughs] There's no way! And I can't is so low. All right, and some people have said have to disagree, I'm gonna say the one that I because this one has such a high speed stat that And uh, you might think speed is but you can make comebacks with it because all yes, including the bullet bill, rely on your So here, what we're gonna do is we're gonna gold-- the green shells. Okay, and I'm just gonna And I'm so much faster than everyone, that I have a giant lead. I can Okay, now we just have to not get hit I can't believe this-- this race All right, so I don't know my okay, and there's a blue shell or a red shell, we're good, we're good. So this is how you play the game. You can't just treat it like normal, or for what it is and take advantage of its speed spilled water on my controller. Uh, I-- I if I think it's fine. Everything feels fine so far. again. All my handling... do you see that? It's to take turns extra wide. Your drift-- if your Okay, so I guess I'm kind of forced to That sucks, but I mean, I-- I can... I can bag going wide to get a few more coins here. There gotta be good players near me. really need a good mini-turbo stat if you want why I'm gonna drive really simple today. I need I love most about this game is how much advanced combo. So I-- I also have to remember I'm trying actually was just trying to win to the best of my I know people don't like to see that, and I don't got out of the way just in time. Okay, uh, people drop their items right before an item set, have a mushroom for the final shortcut, but I okay, yeah, I passed nobody, but I also didn't That was a good race. That room disconnected, was racing against bots for part of that. Uh, be a rough one. It's gonna be a miracle if I mistake. Can I get a mini turbo? Oh, you can! This get the boost panel. I couldn't decide which have to decide early with this combo because if full right there. I'll show the clip again. That and it did nothing, so I had to take the lower path. Well, I can destroy everyone right let's hit you. Oh, that revolving green shell lower path. Sometimes the game just decides for about bagging on Coconut Mall. I know there's a and there are so many walls that I'm really scared sure if my skill is enough to catch up using So let's actually go to the right this time. Can't believe I got the double item box. I have to be so careful. I'm being way more everybody. Getting hit is a disaster with this me-- [gasps] oh, okay. I released A entirely. Yes! the funny thing. My weight stat is so high, but out of the line, the line I tried to take, and I-- I swear I didn't see the red shell warning. probably getting hit. Oh I couldn't get the Okay, just don't get a placement too bad. Ninth a pass for that. That was so difficult. Nooo! We there are a couple sharp turns here. I think one right here that I'm doing right now? Oh, get a purple mini turbo, but I am not going for gonna cancel my mini turbo. I'm only doing that hitting me. All right three coins, that's Mushroom. That's good, that's good because when but it just wasn't enough. And I don't have I got one coin. I still have to go back to the to everybody where they can all hit me and they bad. And remember, my weight stat is not helping of the road. Otherwise, I'm gonna fall-- I'm gonna okay. How do you do the shortcut? Oh, no, I get more handling temporarily. And so, I did that, like I wouldn't be able to mushroom right there bit faster. Right, boo. Hmm people are in bullets Okay, I just don't want to get hit now. All right, decision-making. All right, triple reds. I fourth place. What do we got? I wanted Hopefully, everyone here doesn't hit me because Oh, I could-- I was too slow to get the trick. Yeah, I need triple greens out, I need Unless I get it! I can barely make that turn. What place on Dragon Driftway with such bad handling. was possible. All right, so before each race, I turns on the track are that I need to be careful be like, 'All right, now I need to, uh, like prep because of how bad the handling stat is. So, I'm coins. I don't always take this path, but I need I get it. It's so hard to get coins on Ninja you just get four. I'm taking the upper path there are also coins on the lower path, but it's and, this is the sharp turn I was thinking of. but the upper path is slower. I'm now at 10 coins. most of my competitors are not at 10 coins, so I take the lower path here just to make sure I get path, it is faster. I'm taking the slower paths not get hit. Not getting hit is the name of the And uh, I'm now already thinking--that's brake drift. I'm now already thinking about this I don't want the boomerang. Oh, boo, makes me wasn't too bad. Okay, so it looks like this and I'm, like, already catching up to this Yoshi. Spam, spam, spam. We need to get back up to full I can't believe I used that in fifth. I Are you--are you kidding? What is-- can I get the upper path? I didn't we're not gonna get high enough. Is that's perfect. Anything that hits or use it here. I'm in second. Item lag. Okay, I'm Okay, nice. Wow, we got second place. So, this in this game and how good coins are in this but trust me, it is the second best Sunshine Airport is really a frontrunning track, I could definitely bag because this is just such just because frontrunning is good here. And here's yourself in first place and don't make a mistake get hit at least once in the race, and that is a combo is so bad with my terrible acceleration. My all here because this is just such an easy track way-- all the way back here! I'm so far in last, Wow, that's all I have to say about that. Okay, handling, so I got that going for me, but I don't a mushroom, okay, uh, I'll just use this so I'm mushroom, so I'm just gonna golden mushroom into there. Okay, triple mushrooms. Okay, we're And some of you might have been thinking aren't you just getting really lucky that you video?' And the answer is no, I'm not getting where I almost certainly won't get hit and then to deal with this horrendous acceleration stat. handling stat doesn't look too bad. Trust me, the I tried using this before this video began, and Okay, I'm kind of making a comeback already. These need to hope that Yoshi doesn't back their green I'm just gonna do this, not Oh, okay, I need to toss this away and get to my can pass this person right here because I have you play this combo. This is such a front-running are so busted with the fastest speed stat, and this is something I felt a lot that some of you I can't believe you actually just completely time just thanks to a mushroom.' And, like, do not feel that good in this game. Like, it but you do. It's just that you're typically the slower speed combos are the better ones thanks speed stat definitely makes coins--uh, not coins, handling sucks. [laughs] I mean, that's the whole Okay, I need to get to 10 coins. All right, I'm the problem is, like, the speed stat kind of does in this game. Like, okay, obviously it makes me go but the problem is, like, you'd think the it's not. Because the mini-turbo and mini-turbos are just so important in is actually better for being in the back you want high speed, you want high excitement, it's not. Unfortunately, it's just the opposite. thanks to your speed stat. Oh, blue shell, blue again, but it's not going for me. Yes, yes, I was watching that mini-map like a hawk okay being in second right now. Oh my Goodbye. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I should have regretted playing aggressively. You need to hold Okay, fifth place. Ah, I easily could have a disappointment. [laughs] Everyone in front of Teddy Buggy Rollers. Okay, well, not everyone, but think Teddy Buggy Rollers is just the best stuff there's a few more viable options when it comes track is, like, the bringer of chaos, and I am And the thing is, I know some people think that it's like you're gambling for items. The truth is, Think about it like this: if you're in a room with and you're front-running, second place is doing there's an issue right there. If you take a blue place? Now you're in a worse spot with, like, problem. And that, my friends, is gambling. How shells is second place gonna get? That is the real to do any of that, and now I don't have an item. Oh, dodged the shock, okay. I'm so far behind at this point. Oh, that's bad items. Good thing Okay, I just need to use Use them as a drift here. Uh, I should That almost steered me away from the double item Let's go, let's go. No, red shell! No, I saw that anyway. Argh, no! I played that perfectly. I was at the line? I always forget people do that. All because this is such a good bagging combo, and I it's just the way it is. And, uh, on this race, race as if, uh, I'm just like a normal player with whatever racing skill that I have, but coins though, obviously, it's just so important. So I am just gonna keep trying to go No stopping for items. No, uh, turning around none of that. Oh no, it's okay I have If you call having two coins, if you count Oh, I actually couldn't turn far enough, Okay, but this defense is really good. Hopefully that person doesn't find a way to Okay, I lost one-- I lost all my greens, okay. item hits me, I can get right back up to full And go wide for the double. [Music] I thing no one's like that near me right look at how many coins have dropped. These are Oh, whoops. [Music] Better not come back and All right, nice, nice. Mushrooms! I need to save these mushrooms. I do need both Oh, that was sketch. Nothing I can do here.. but look at that acceleration. Uh, I almost had that but I also almost got a draft off of that. Front for the entire second half of the race. That was I'm gonna keep that rule. I'm sacrificing my and I don't know if I can take that shortcut, to go around. Look at that speed difference. speed difference they're faster than me. Okay, I almost missed it. Okay, second place counts as Luckily, it's not too bad. What's this the advanced glider strategy? Oh, they are. Wow, a Shy Guy with a super horn? Oh, how'd I land in a Okay, now I can actually try to just, have it probably not work. [laughs] So if there's screwed. But this is for Mario Kart science, um, another reason bagging is not going to that, uh, the motion glider strategy at the I have to go around. What is that? That's a red shell. Yup. Okay, it could do about that. Oh, look at that, look Oh, they activated their star right in Okay, I need to be on the ground. I Nooo! I got tenth! This is-- that's why I will go so far as to bag on Coconut I guarantee you my result will be better. I'll by doing something this stupid. All right, this doesn't work. [laughs] All right, here Start to drift. Oh, that was rough. I need All right, there's no bullet bill available because that was really rough. Okay, and we're Get down to the ground for my ground speed and the item set, but this is gonna save me a bunch of That was probably not even faster than taking I'm already back in it. I'm already, like, right it's the beginning of lap two. Okay, would love a bullet bill, though, but if I get and I'm gonna do some crazy Okay, I might be too far ahead for a bullet bill and I have these items, which is I need to watch out so I don't get hit here. I'm taking the top path. It's safer, and my item got stolen. Blue shell. Item lag. I can't what's happening? Yes, yes! [laughs] Oh my God [laughs] Ladies and gentlemen, how