Terence Tao is one of the world's best mathematicians. He has won maths top prize, the Fields Medal, His talents were recognised early, and he He was dabbling in university courses when And by 16, he had graduated from Flinders By 21. He had his PhD from Princeton. When Terrance was seven, he was taking some school. And it was around this time that he was visited gifted children. This report is Clements', thoughts and findings given to him. So let's take a look at it. It was the day before Terence's eighth birthday, And it says here that Terence was given an Knowing that he might find the first few questions at the questions because they get harder towards And Terrance has an interesting reply. He says 'the questions won't know if I laugh He went on to score 60 out of 60 on this test, test would be expected to get a score of only And here's one of those example questions. Question 58 asked if p divided by q divided by r, then find delta. And here is seven year old Terence's answer. He writes it out as a fraction, and then just getting it to be p over r squared. Although it was clear to Clements that this need to move on to some more difficult things. This next set of questions were presented They include things like what angle does an Terence got all eight of these questions correct Clements noticed that while Terence had been an algebraic step by writing the appropriate law next to it. And so that prompted this following very interesting Clements asked what is the associative law that it doesn't matter where you put the brackets. He also gives a correct definition of the definition of a group, something that most However, it seems that the first thing to Terence replies, &quot;I don't know&quot;. Given that I barely have a grasp on what a a seven year old Terence not to know that He does, however, know about the distributive addition, Clements asks if addition over multiplication Boolean algebras&quot;. Clements was quite impressed by all of this, of algebraic definitions for someone who was how he used sophisticated mathematical language I was beginning to form the impression that methods in preference to making extensive Here is one of Terence's actual written solutions side of a square is increased by three metres. The area of the new square is 39 metres squared How long are the sides of the new square?' Terence correctly finds that the length of The next set of questions given to Terrance all the numbers from one to 99,999. How many times would you have to write the This one Terrance actually gave an incorrect shows plenty of critical thought about the Apparently the correct solution here is 50,000. He struggled a little bit with a few more And Clements says that, 'at this stage, Terence his interest was still high'. So he asked him just two more relatively simple First he asked him to sketch the graph of 'I asked him to find the coordinates of the This response took 20 seconds. I then asked him to sketch y is equal to x And in about one minute, he produced this'. It is interesting to note that Terence hadn't But when Clements had arrived at the Tao household, and Grace, he had spotted Terence sitting with the title Calculus. Terence's dad was a doctor and Terence's mum worked as a high school teacher. She said that Terence liked to read mathematics hours after school reading mathematics textbooks. Terence also had an interest in computer programming, a book. And at the end of this first visit, Clements was called Fibonacci and actually contains Apparently, Terence wrote many of his programmes So let's take a look at Fibonacci. It doesn't just calculate the sequence. It starts with, 'here comes Mr. Fibonacci. Can you guess which year was Mr Fibonacci Write down a number please'. Then, if the user inputs the correct answer, However, if their guess is too far off, they'll Try again.' Or they might be told 'sorry, he wasn't born Try again.' Then if they were close, it would print the answer, meaning that even to start this programme, After printing some of the sequence, it ends And 'here goes his car'. This line is perhaps the only reminder of is. Five weeks later, Clements came back for a And he asked Terence if something was a field. He was Terence's answer, clearly demonstrating what a field was. This kind of answer is something that a university And it shows just how fast Terence was able They encountered another thing, though, that He was asked for the antiderivative of one up to that yet in his reading. But on a third visit, not long after the second, of one over x, but was doing things like this He was given a space visualisation test, which that Terence preferred to use non-visual analytic thinking than more visual methods. For example, with this question here, Terence law, which was that each point had an image did not imagine each shape being folded along Included in the report was Terence's school took place at the primary school, whilst all His teachers said that whilst seven year old 16 year old, his maturity was still that of And Terence's parents had to balance giving but also allowed him to fit in socially and Report makes it clear that rather than being education, Terence was allowed to pursue the the most. He loved mathematics, and the efforts of those become bored or frustrated with non challenging Let's finish with a look at a programme that for publication to a student mathematics journal It is all about perfect numbers and is labelled 'A perfect number is one such that all its add up to itself. For example, six is a perfect number because one plus two plus three is equal to six'. Euclid proved that a number of this form is is a prime number. So Terence says that he has used this fact numbers, which starts with a programme for Then he computes perfect numbers up to 10 Yet again another example of just how outstanding It's been humbling for me to read through I hope that it doesn't seem discouraging to As I'm sure Terence Tao would even agree that a more conventional path through education. Thanks for watching. I hope you've enjoyed this video. And thanks as always to my Patreon supporters A special shout out to today's Patreon 'Cat'