Hello all! This is &quot;Cooking's Easy&quot; channel and me, Olga Matvey. Today we'll cook a simple cake that requires no baking. All we need to cook for it is cream. It's a very tasty cake. It can be cooked either with fruits or without them. Now I'll show you the way I cook it. Join me! Let's start with the cream. Pour a glass of milk in the frying pan with a thick bottom. Add sugar, potato starch, flour and some vanilla. Stir it up, set medium temperature and boil until thick. It will take you 2 minutes. Now it's ready. Switch off the stove and transfer the cream to a separate bowl. If it is lumpy you can grind it through a sieve. When it's cooled down (in 5-10 minutes) add soft butter there. Don't beat, just rub the cream with butter. Now the cream's got lighter and more porous. That's it. Put the cream aside and let's start making a cake. Take a bowl. Put a tablespoon of cream on the bottom and spread it. The cake is based on cookies. Any cookies up to you. It doesn't matter what kind of cookies you will use. Make the first layer of cookies. You can brake them into parts if the mold is round to make them fit better. If the mold is square just put them in rows. Now take the boiled condensed milk and spread it on the cookies that have not been used. Put the cookies condensed milk down and make another layer. Press it a bit. Now put here all the cream we've cooked before and spread it over the cookies. Cover it with another layer of cookies without condensed milk. This is how it looks. Leave it for 5 minutes and take dairy cream. You can top the cookies with some banana or pear of plum, something not very juicy with pulp up to your taste. You can use sour cream instead of dairy cream for making the following cream. Beat cold dairy cream very well. When they are thick enough add sugar powder there. If you are going to cook it of sour cream you should also use sugar powder but add some thickener as well. We don't need the mixer any longer. Dairy cream delivers lighter cream for the cake. Sour cream delivers a different taste. Spread the beaten dairy cream over the whole cake. Now the cake is supposed to become impregnated, it will take about 2-3 hours. You can decorate it in 3 ways. The first one is cocoa topping. But the cocoa is going to melt rather fast. So it's better to use grated chocolate or coconut flakes instead. By the way, coconut flakes can vary in colors, so that gives a possibility to make the cake really beautiful. I take white coconut flakes. The cake is ready. Now put it in the fridge for 2-3 hours. Or even for a night. My cake had been left in the fridge for a night, I'm going to cut it and show you how it looks. It is easily cut, the cookies have become impregnated. I make square portions. See how perfect it looks inside. All the layers are soft. Fruits would deliver a different taste. You can use almond flakes instead of coconut ones. It will also deliver a wonderful flavor. Ok, I'll try it and describe the flavor. Smells like a coconut. Very juicy and tender cake. You know what it reminds? It tastes like Raffaello cake from one side, and like Napoleon cake from another. This is because of the cookies. Use not very sweet cookies for both creams are pretty sweet. When topped with almond flakes, it would remind Raffaello even more. Very tender and tasty. Just like a restaurant dish. No baking. Fast. Simple. Good deal. If you replace dairy cream with sour cream the taste will be a bit more sour. This cake is more tender and airy due to the dairy cream. It's just amazing. Dima, I know you want it, hold on a moment. We are going to have breakfast now. Do not hesitate to cook this cake. Write comments. I strongly recommend you to cook it. Please write comments for me to know how your cake tastes like. Thank you for being with me today. Like my videos and subscribe to my channel. Bye!