[XBOX SOUND] By the way, that overlooks the Pyramids. That will trump That is what-- [LAUGHS] [MUSIC PLAYING] Hi. My name is Dominic, I'm a variety streamer, and I Simulator. Hi. My name is Rachel, and I'm a And you'll find me flying the Streaming Flight Sim I find it's a great way and engage with my community a cool things with them. If they want to say, hey, It's like, cool. Let's-- I've never Chat, we're going on a [CHUCKLES] With gaming with I've actually had have come in having already And maybe they're a in certain aspects that you just But overall, they're quite good. They're a lot better than the streets because they at of where they are in space. You're learning something But they have the luxury in a chair at home. So they get the basics it's really interesting to see. I'm actually really curious to if I can do certain students in the airplane, or steep turns, things that you So I'm actually curious I think the instrumentation is which sounds really when you think about it. [STATIC] OK, so the very do on every single flight is I have to. I don't know why. It makes it feel more a video But-- so the first-- as soon as I find that button, RACHEL: (LAUGHING) OK. DOMINIC: And give it a RACHEL: There you go. For anyone's first have them rotate a little 60 is where I like to wait. There's a little and like you just did, DOMINIC: If you want, we we'll see what this This would actually be who's learning about sight So in this case, you could The horizon is below the nose. And you can even use is what I always told students. You could use-- you could angled up against the horizon. Notice how the tip of the wing, and pushed the nose Slanted upward, kind RACHEL: Yeah. And then level it and that's how you know that OK, so now I'm going to that Dominic just did. We would have-- AUTOMATED VOICE: There's A mile of road will A mile of runway will All right. Yeah, thank you. I like her. She's nice. [LAUGHTER] At this point, I would I would've spoken to ground. And now I am holding short of All right, so now I'm going We were talking about that What I always teach their hand on the they have to abort takeoff. OK. So obviously, when you're just clicking of right, a little bit of left But in the real want your hand by to make sure, in case there's a it is that you can Or one of your warning But now we're at full power. So that's it. That's a nice little takeoff. Now we're going to of my favorite part is being already in the air-- Fueled up, ready to go. DOMINIC: Oh, yeah. I mean, being over a really cool We're going to go to Giza. We're going to go to Egypt. Ooh. That's great. Yeah, it's great So-- At the airlines, it's so task get to cruise, you get where it's just quiet. Yeah, and another reason is really just because Great attention to that they actually that you can hear the It's a little Because that actually like when you're That's really cool. I really do like this game context for everything. It gives a 1:1 scale. I wouldn't have known that this close to the Sphinx. By the way, that overlooks the Pyramids. That will trump anything [LAUGHS] That is what I'm taking Make sure you go to the and you'll get the best So we are in Giza. I want to see how this On your private have to do a 45 degree And you can only lose or gain 10 knots of airspeed. You can only lose So I'm going to see how So I'm just going to I just want to see So I'm going to add a little we always lift in a turn. And then I'm just going to-- oh, goodness. All right, I'm see how the nose is just through the horizon? Yes. See that? See how my-- it's It's not popping up. So there you go. All right, so I didn't I'm still at around 1,800. So one of the ways that about flying straight and level I usually cover up their just so they can outside looks like, I can tell we're in a climb. The horizon is starting to sink So I know I'm climbing. I can also look Notice my wing in Notice how it's pitched So those are very simple ways we're in a climb. So I can pull some You can also look they're getting smaller. Or that. [LAUGHTER] How often do you have to talk Every single day, and before you land and [LAUGHS] Most times, you because you have nothing Right. But no, here it's actually-- Yeah. --OK. RACHEL: All right, I'm assuming the I'm going to just go ahead And then I'm just all right, I got to Here's a-- ooh. Here's a little Again, this is something how to feel in the airplane. Coming in at a nice 60 knots, centered. In the airlines, I would've is not a stable approach. But that is OK because we are All right, so 0-5 centered. All right, so now I'll start my flair put a little bit of right DOMINIC: Ooh, that's smooth. --and then just nice and easy. DOMINIC: Didn't even skip. [LAUGHS] And of if this was an airliner, we weren't stable coming in. But at least you get a view. You want it just like takeoff. Takeoff and landings are just so you don't ever want to I want to get level with-- since I'm already why not get level Here we would have to that Cairo international be the equivalent of a is kind of like landing at LAX. So you would need to go into their airspace. You would need to And the weather is given unless something Now we can deploy flaps. Now you can do flap one. --10 degrees. Yep. I'm giving it 10 Good. And I started lifting. And notice, we ballooned-- Yep, now I'm pulling-- --to compensate. Good. And you can do flap two now. Ooh, I never actually Well, there you go. I know I want to Yep. So now, notice how we're a little bit. Ailerons don't well in slower configurations. So what you want to step on that little to get her over, and try Yeah, I'm using more of So we'll-- Yeah, so ailerons airspeeds. So just kind of Nicely done. And see, this I feel like being in cockpit But I honestly only toggle RACHEL: Yeah. It's good. And I'm pulling I'm-- aw, I skipped. That's OK. This counts as two landings. Two landings? One of them was great. There you go, and then There you go. And that's it. Yeah, I'd say good job, your settings, really interesting And just in general, if you probably got it wouldn't feel as alien So-- That's definitely not Yeah, overall, You're not overcontrolling. You're not overbanking. And that landing And now you know how to There's definitely can practice on in these games. And think especially where you talk them and they come and they I think it's just to solidify their training that I can see why the students that actually had-- they could pick up DOMINIC: She picked up on She could handle her [LAUGHS] DOMINIC: She can handle her own. I learned a lot of little It's a very complicated machine. But when you have a I feel like you're So at the airlines, the captain will just and they'll say of, great flying with you. So it was a pleasure. Great flying with you. I had so much fun. [MUSIC PLAYING]