This is the Raspberry Pi cluster it's a Beowulf cluster built out of 33 Raspberry Pis I started working on this couple months ago for my dissertation work in which I was developing a distributed which needed a cluster environment to so this uh... seemed to be about the cheapest way you could build a 32 node or 33 node so, some of the novel things uh... are i think the the rack design and power management system. So if I take a look at one of these stacks... you can see i have used PCB stand-offs to build each of these columns and allow each of the Pis to stacked one on top of another ..and that allowed plenty of room for component clearance and for air to get through ...to keep things cool... ...and then on the top and bottom... I have drilled plexiglas in that same pattern to hold the whole structure together. Now for the power management... you'll notice...so, normally you would use USB, this little on the corner to power a Raspberry Pi and you can see, I'm not actually using that in the system. Instead, I built a custom PCB that distributes 5 volts to each of these stacks... as well, as you can see, providing a tri-color LED and there are these wire jumpers that go between each PCB to allow power to be moved between the top and bottom of the stack. So i just bring power into one place on the stack and the whole thing is powered and so my regulated 5 volts I'm ...couple PC power supplies because they provide up to 30 amps at 5 volts, so you got plenty of that's clean... plenty clean for running Raspberry Pis. So one other thing is... with these... ...the PCB port here is that when ever you through the 5 volt pin on the GPIO header you are actually bypassing a fuse that's uh... that is present between the USB and the 5 volt rail so i went ahead and added that back to this PCB as well so that I still short-circuit protection... on all the boards. So, if I pull around the back here, I've got some air cooling which is certainly overkill for the amount of heat generated by but I am overclocking all of these to 1 GHz so they do get a little bit warmer than they normally would but even so uh... they don't ever get to fan cooling... ...but it looks cool... ...and does keep them a lot cooler than So, on the corner here, this is one of the PC power supplies and I'm just using the ...and another one on the other side. Then we've got a 48 port switch that all these Ethernet cables are and then just a couple power cables coming from each of these PC power supplies to power each stack. So, the program that I have running on here is just a parallel using MPI... and effectively... ...this node on top, the master node is directly controlling the LEDs on all the rest of the This was done to showcase the uh... whole thing operating as a cluster... ...to show how tight the synchronization is using parallel programming uh... in any case where you have a single LED that's being lit uh... on a node... it is just doing a.regular MPI send/receive uh... however on cases where you have multiple LEDs distinct nodes lighting synchronously... ...those are actually in response to so, you see you can get very tight timing between the different nodes. The are truely operating ...as one program... one machine... So, lets let it sit here and run through some different patterns. We have a spiral... ...blink all... ...different colors... So software I have running on here it is Arch Linux... I chose that because it's uh... far more lightweight than Raspbian... ...a lot smaller process list once you have booted the system because you don't have a graphical environment installed by default. Really, aside from that, it's just a and an NFS share setup so that you have a common iand some kind of MPI package installed ...there's the rainbow look... ..with strobing... So at this point, I have been able to move uh... over to this platform and it is performing really well. It has been a really fun project to work on... It is pretty cool to have a 32 node cluster that can sit on your desk...just about.