Maps I think are cool. &quot;Great Britain, UK, Okay, so if you're talking about Scotland, England, and Wales, that is apparently Great Britain. But if you're talking about Scotland, England, Wales, that is the United Kingdom, which is quite ironic considering most of Ireland did not want to be united with the rest of Great Britain. But if you're talking about Northern Ireland, and that is the British Isles. Yeah, that is definitely confusing. 2024 is a worldwide election year. It has just happened to line up that there are 64 different that all have a national Perhaps this is a real opportunity for some actual positive global change. Probably not though. &quot;The size of the Roman compared to the United States.&quot; That's actually quite interesting to see. So yeah, Roman Empire at its height basically covered all of the countries surrounding the Mediterranean. And in terms of scale, of the entirety of the which is rather large. Yeah, they really knew Countries that drive on the left versus driving on the right. So 69% of the world drives That's 165 countries. The UK really is doing its own thing here when you look at the rest of Europe. Why don't we just switch to driving on the right What's the worst that could happen? And I'm sure that wouldn't &quot;Poverty in South America.&quot; This one's actually really sad. 'Cause normally when when there's a 10 year difference, the amount of poverty's But in this case in South and that's in every single country. Some of which - particularly bad. Like Argentina, it's gone from 4% to 36%. What are people saying? Okay, obviously there but Covid was a big one. Apparently inflation in to developing countries and But hopefully things improve soon. &quot;The world 250 million years from now.&quot; Oh, this is an enhance, enhance. Well it turns out it's for an enhance, enhance. But either way, the continents and Paris and London will Not that there will be a London and Paris in 250 million years. Cairo, Moscow, they're That's crazy. Tokyo, we can actually still see remnants of the shape of Japan there, I think. But it is completely squashed as has Australia too. And Antarctica not looking That's crazy, isn't it? Will there still be humans Presumably not. I mean, I guess there might be somewhere else in space at that point. But that's so far into the future that would they still I don't know. Stop asking me. I can't &quot;Foreign cuisines that Italy taking Europe by storm. Apparently in United Kingdom, which is interesting. I mean, yeah, I do really like but my go-to cuisine would Oh, it's just delicious. Is that Suriname over in what? Belgium? I did not see that coming. &quot;Comparing US States to Oh my God. So this is saying that just to the entirety of Canada, 1.73 trillion. And just California has which is equal to the United Kingdom. This is absolutely crazy. Even smaller states like Wyoming have GDPs equal to Singapore, which is, like, a pretty strong economy. 300 billion, my God. Then following a similar theme, these &quot;three regions make So that's England, a bunch of Europe, less than half of the USA, a teeny bit of China, and half of Japan. That is a lot of global power to hold considering how many people &quot;Most common immigrant in Germany.&quot; Wow, what a beautifully detailed map. We've got a lot of regions here. You can see that generally it's dominated by Turkish immigrants. Also a few Russian, a couple of Ukraine. We've got USA in this And then quite a lot of Vietnam too. Can we get some info in the comments? Unsurprisingly, the region is because of US military bases. And the reason for lots of is because they were due to a shortage of manpower. And understandably over time, people have settled and &quot;Map of nicknames for states and provinces in USA and Canada.&quot; Ooh, this is a pretty looking map. Oh, that's delightful. We've got drawings of Northwest Territory is Inuit territory's nicknamed &quot;Our land&quot;, which is nice, isn't it? Now let's scroll down into the US. The Golden State, that's California. Oh, Pelican State? Which is that? Is that Louisiana? Yes it is. I can see the text. I saw a pelican try and eat It was unreal. Oh, okay, New York is That makes a lot of sense, actually. I see what they did there. &quot;Jewish Population in Europe,&quot; 1933 compared to 2015. So nearly 100 years later, Jewish population hasn't from the impact of the Holocaust. That is so, so sad. And it's not just the I think there's been lots of But that is crazy how low &quot;Favourite vacation countries based on the most common country people stay at for leisure.&quot; So United Kingdom, that's Spain. That aligns with me. I've been to, I think, three Interestingly, people in which is quite nice, isn't it? A lot of these countries near which makes a lot of sense. Turkey's another country that Thinking about it, if my then I have holidayed in the UK way more than I've holidayed in Spain. &quot;How many wolves are there This is a cool looking map. Look at this big wolf down here. So there are now zero That's a shame. Although I don't think my There's still 70,000 in Russia, And 7,000 in Turkey, which There's actually way more than I ever would've anticipated. I genuinely would've only there to be, like, quite like Siberia and stuff. But they're bloody everywhere. &quot;A map of European supermarkets.&quot; Right, here we go. There are Lidl's over There is an Auchan in a lot hence why I've not heard of them. Same with Maxima. Billa not really getting anywhere. Metro I have not heard of, but you could see they're Kaufland, with a name like that, you expect them to be in Germany. Tesco! Tesco!! Tesco not actually got that but they are my go-to, so And we've got Carrefour and Aldi. I've been to quite a but I'm definitely a Tesco boy. &quot;The largest generation in Europe has the oldest This is really interesting to see. Most people in this continent were born between 1944 and 1964 because people are just living And people are starting to I mean, when you see this data, it starts to explain why things like getting on the property These days for people in the UK, the best chance they've got at getting a house is inheriting one, which is just a really depressing reality. Countries which have capybaras. They're capybaras, right? So lots of countries have them in... Look at that one stretched over Russia. Lots of countries have them in zoos. A lot of Africa doesn't But in South America in the wild, which I'm guessing is... That's 'cause that's I actually thought they Yeah, they're from South I was sure of that. I think I just saw them and I may be getting confused. &quot;Nearly half of Americans I can't look at a map of the USA anymore without seeing that stupid &quot;Ongoing civil wars.&quot; So since 1991, there has been a civil war in Somalia and also in Syria, Mali, Central African Republic, Yemen, Ethiopia, Myanmar, and Sudan. And I knew about basically none of them. There are people just out there and we're just going about our business. It is really quite sad to think about. Whoa, &quot;1 billion years That's a moving map... Oh, this is so satisfying. All right, it has been 200 and I don't really recognise anything yet. Oh my God, this is unreal. Oh, here we go. Yep. I can see India just drifted from... Oh, it's reset. It was just getting good. (laughs) We're gonna watch India There it is. That's India and then America's down here, and it's going (slurps). It's getting sucked into the rest of Asia. Incredible. &quot;The most bizarre human world records.&quot; Ah, here we go. Are there any things I could attempt? &quot;Fastest motorcycle driven blindfolded&quot; is 260 kilometres an hour. I'll leave that one. &quot;Most pubs visited in 44,000? How do you do that in a day? Of course that's the &quot;Farthest swim under ice.&quot; That was in the Netherlands. &quot;Most bizarre human diet.&quot; He ate 18 bikes and a plane. Right. The oldest human was Longest time held holding Longest human nose is a fella in Turkey. Or it could be a lady in Tallest living woman was in Isn't that interested? What's the science behind all three of those records being in Turkey? &quot;Most popular console in every state.&quot; The Switch dominates quite a bit, as does PS5 and the Xbox X. Are there any obscure ones anywhere? Yes. Is that an Xbox 360? No, it's an Xbox One. Which state's that? Pennsylvania maybe? No, it's West Virginia. My assumption would be that people perhaps just in West Virginia compared So they just can't afford And there's also PS4 down here as well, which is probably the same kind of reason. Generally they will be in groups, which you can see has 'Cause people generally as their friends who are their neighbours and it just kind of spreads. &quot;Where music artists are Beyonce has a pretty good spread there. Taylor Swift, that's really interesting how she sways over to the west. You would think Taylor Swift perhaps coming from a country background, she'd be more popular in the south. But I guess her music's maybe shifted. There are so many to go through here, so I'll just click and you can pause because I'm not gonna be able I can't talk something interesting All right, there you go. &quot;How to say, 'Lion' in the predominant So in the United Kingdom, it is lion. In France, it is lion. In Spain, it is leon. In Portugal, it is leao. In Italy, it's leone. In Norway, it's love. In Sweden, it's lejon. In Finland, it's leijona. In Russian, it's lev. In Belarus, it's lev. In Poland, it's lew. In Ukrainian, it's lev. That's why he's called Aslan in Narnia. &quot;Countries visited by Queen Elizabeth II.&quot; I tell you what, she 117 total countries. &quot;Seat belt laws in the US.&quot; Okay, so in New Hampshire you Why would that be a rule? There's no reason to not It makes no difference to, like, your convenience or whatever. What? Generally though, in all of you could be ticketed for which, obviously, is what it should be. In the orange states though, and ticketed if there is That makes no sense. What Just put your seatbelt on, man. &quot;Ending of place names in Poland.&quot; So up in the north of Poland, there is a place that ends with -owo, whereas in the south of Poland, place names predominantly end with -ow. That is some real geography I don't understand any of it, but it's still interesting to look at. And on that note, I'm gonna end this maps I think are cool video. Hopefully you did enjoy it. Please do click that subscribe button and maybe that like button too if you wanna just help out All right, I will see you later. Bye.