FEMALE SPEAKER: Please [APPLAUSE] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: It's I'm gonna talk about a I was one of those kids that was bullied and teased in school. And the thing that saved I had a great got me interested in doing all Which brings it down to interesting stuff, to show them interesting stuff. There's a scene in the HBO movie in optical illusion rooms. Well, and I actually saw on a Bell Labs 16 I'm showing how long ago that So you know, gotta get them Now the thing is, is to get you thinking about that think differently. When I was in 20s, I thought that everybody thought Then I asked this is where I learned how Access your memory How does that information I was shocked to find get this vague, I don't have any vague I only have specific ones. Now you might ask, why am I Why don't I ask house or car? Well, most people are so or their own car, that But I wanted to ask you but they're out there and everybody knows And you have to see You just can't even drive And that really some real insight that different So then I divided that think in words and And then I started to-- There's this other kind of This is more the Now when does something Well, you get a little you take out some social and you get geek traits for I think a brain can either be thinking, or a brain Because after all, who It wasn't the yack-yacks around [AUDIENCE LAUGHS] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: It in the back of the cave and figured out how to and make a stone spear. You see, you get a little you get some advantages. You get too much get a very, very 'Cause one of the big problems spectrum is it's so huge. At one end, you have got people like Tesla, who You got a lot of people There's a lot of I don't talk about live ones. I'm only gonna talk when I show their pictures. You know who all You can look them up in and it's really, really obvious. But you get a know, you get the There tends to be that may have bipolar disorder. There's more techies Now the thing is, an autism And over the years they In the early '90s, they now just geeks and nerds with Then in 2013 they took that out. So now you've got this great goes from heads of Silicon that remain nonverbal and So you've got this OK, maybe that's heresy that But I promised that I would and stuff I could dig off of like a very popular Now the thing I want to is what would happen Little Albert Einstein. He had no language until Wasn't very social, He'd probably be labeled And little Stevie. Oh, weird loner. This is right out of publicly A weird, weird snakes to his elementary And then he was bullied and and what saved him in the neighborhood This brings up a Getting these teenagers now today they're getting Sometimes getting and get an autism paid Social Security You have people saying I'm Well, I was just down And if you want to and play video games at night, I What I'm getting the kid that's getting and they're not That concerns me And so he was bullied. And then when he went he was such a filthy slob they No, being a filthy And there's a scene in the a deodorant and they Use it.&quot; That actually happened. This is where bosses to give some instruction And being an absolutely filthy, is gonna be very It's just too gross. Now I like to look at sort of like a It's not black and white. If I get a diagnosis for I either got Or I've either had So when I check the I did two months &quot;I have never had tuberculosis.&quot; That's definite. When you see autism, that's Geeks and nerds, when does No black or white dividing line. It's a continuous trait. And if you got rid of you won't have It's just that simple. [AUDIENCE LAUGHS] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: Now I I think in I don't think in words. So when I think about I can test run it and Before 3D virtual were invented, I could and they could try stuff. And I could say, do that, that's not gonna work. And you might wonder Well, as the cattle they think they're going And that's one the I always get asked all do cows know they're I had to answer that question And I found they behaved exactly plant as they behaved going up It's not stress free. But the amount of stress they is approximately the same. In fact, I just updated that and it's still the same. They tell us to do blood Yeah, it can vary from very but it's about the same in Well, when you're a weird geek, is that the way that was by showing off my work. You sell your work So I put portfolios together. OK, I'd say the quality of this [AUDIENCE LAUGHS] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: where it's shown up Now the thing is when I'd go to the AG and they thought I No one wanted to talk to me. And then I whipped out Then I started to get respect. That's selling your work. And the thing I learned you want to make a portfolio and 30 seconds later it's &quot;wow!&quot; Don't put too much You just put enough stuff in quickly, wow this person Now I used to joke around access to my visual cortex. Well, turns out I've got a And that's probably in the going from the the way deep to the back the graphics files are stored. Now Walter Schneider at the has a new scanning I'm sure some Asperger people to enable this scanner to So your brain's got the And the inside of the big long axons that go all form cable bundles. And this new dissect out the cable bundles. It can tell the difference cross each other And that took a lot and they can fit it inside a And so I'm an so start thinking [SINGS] You can get in that itty-bitty can. That's an ancient old So that came up. You can get lots of computing That's sort of OK, now this is the cable And it goes from the visual That's the normal one. And that's mine. And those branches, you can see on that rendering, they So I basically have it's a lot like Google you type in keywords and And they are specific! The thing I find so fascinating is they work just like Well, who made search engines? Some people that are much don't like the way the I like the way it And one of the things I is, you gotta use all All right, let's just There's bulls, cows, cattle, You gotta use all That's really obvious to me. And I find if you use you find a lot of papers Now the price I paid have less bandwidth for So I had speech delay. Didn't talk until age four. And I couldn't get my words out. See, there's always a price. This scanner was originally paid to look at veterans' And if this had been it would look like dried and broke about half of them. I'll tell you, the doesn't look very pretty. OK, now this is was done at the and presented at the And the blue part is basically It's full of water. And you can see, I've got I got visual thinking and my See, where I think innate difference is either in or an extreme Yes, there's brain plasticity. But that's happening in the Those big white fiber think you grow those I mean, they're that long. OK Malcolm Gladwell says and you have enough anyone can learn anything. Well, back in '68, had access to this exact I wanted to learn how to program Algebra, just hopeless. I wanted to become I could never keep I could get to the good I mean, I could But get really good? There were other kids, one Well, I just couldn't no matter how hard I tried. I agree with Gladwell about the access to the teaching. You know, you have This is probably one of The different kinds I am a photo-realistic An object visualizer. Lot of people in programming a spatial visualizer. See, in your brain you have That's me. And then you got circuits And people that are is something located to not be so good at the And the pattern thinkers These kids often have I hear stories where OK, they're and they won't let That's just stupid. Another thing that bad-- political is you've got a fourth And they make them do baby the more advanced book. That's just ridiculous. You can get into a kid may be gifted in math Now I like to bust Everybody tends to get There's a text box. There's a farm and ranch box. There's a gifted box. And there's an And I like to pick out so I like to get a these different things. Because I'm seeing something I go to an autism meeting and walks up to me, a real and he's fixated on his autism. And sometimes they get kind and they're not like saying please Learning just basic skills. Kind of get over protected. Then I go to a gifted meeting. The same little geeky but he wants to tell me about Magiscope, which is a really microscope. And then I go to all full of undiagnosed [AUDIENCE LAUGHS] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: Avoid 'cause it might hold you back. Now where learning about autism guys here is in You don't need to go but just reading about And then I go over to the farm and I go to this big And there's this old and he runs the And he's out there playing a new cooler. Big huge concrete LEGOs, you And he's pure spectrum, but The worst things they've is taken the hands-on classes. In fact, at JPL they make all like the Mars lander, they And they're having who's going to replace the Now a third kind of thinker They know everything about is and they're a verbal thinker. Now so-called are mixtures of these But I'm finding, when you there's an awful that ought to get headed down that the teachers are having a hard on how to deal with and they got smart, geeky, It's a really, Because I can think of with when I was know are on the spectrum today. But the problem that the have and the schools have, you have to have a label. Now I don't think it hurts to put a label on him But then you get the kid that's bullied in school, because you get And Steve Jobs was one they had to take him put him in another And fortunately, he had a That was another thing He was doing hands-on things. Now I know that be the best thing to But I only can talk where I have information of publicly available things magazine, which Now in &quot;The Autistic I now show evidence that actually do exist. Today the schools are Well, Marie Kozhevnikof's work. Surfing the internet, three found her stuff about the This PET brain scan kinds of visualizers exist. I was so happy Because I had just observed And when I did my TED talk, I yet. And they weren't There's kind of a bias No, everyone's not the same. Yes, there's a You got a lot of people You can get them pretty up to here or whatever, won't get them to here. They can move back and That gray matter's got But then you've got these great Well, you're kind of OK, there's two ways You can do it the can do it the more And there's kids that can just And the school says They don't get it that Well, I'm saying let But we will take some So we're going to put of everything electronic, and absolutely fine. Now I just want to that's definitely not my mind. That praying mantis is of folded paper. No cutting, no tape. And what you see that is the folding pattern. And people look at Well, there's no with a square piece of paper and That's not my mind. And here are some stars that some kids gave me. Well, they need to be in Now my thing was art. And when I was in elementary was always encouraged. And I was encouraged to do So I wasn't just head over and over again. You gotta take the and broaden it got to learn how to do stuff I always like to show And here's a beautiful She was more moderate. Well, her favorite thing used Well, we had to get And while on the I think our governments when you've got a governor creating traffic The one that looks This is absolutely ridiculous! They're getting totally We have great things going docking with the space station. But instead we on the news this morning messing up traffic on and some dumb thing about getting scared by I mean, that was on when I was having breakfast. I think there's more to have on the news than that. And these people, as far on a bridge, that's of about an eight year-old. It's also something that when I was eight years old like that because it You don't do those 'cause you wouldn't like if It's just that simple. There's some other made by a person that was spectrum. All right, now math people why you need One of the things that really emphasis-- and we're going How could I get through Know how I got through college? Because thank goodness for And in 1967, the required Probability, matrices, Bit more visual, I managed to get through it. But the engineering mind 'Cause I've learned there's mind doesn't see. Now what's there? I don't know if that came I don't know if it's I did get that off the internet. I certainly wasn't gonna my own picture of the Not something you want that's for sure. 'Cause sometimes the most So I was getting all these and reading about I find this stuff interesting. And when I found out I'm going how could you do this? I can't design a nuclear But if I had been drawing the and doing my site there's no way I would have All I have to know is if the emergency pump fails it-- see it doesn't quite get burns up and you're in so That's all I have Well OK, earthquake broke all There's no electric power so they had to scram it. And what happened is that ran the emergency in a non-waterproof basement. How could you make a Now when I was young, I used No. I found the mathematical I could see the water smashing This plant was painted with little clouds on make it look See those baby blue And two seconds later, all the electric and it's not going to work. There's no way I I mean, I would've been going that there was and say, I want doors. I want to try out all I want to find waterproof doors don't have to have training close really tight, obvious And it wouldn't have happened. This is why you really need all Now I've been thinking about You see, 'cause I can visualize Especially anything OK, Steve Jobs went to college. And he also did a calligraphy But it really and all the computers have And he was an artist. He developed the Oh, and I know there's a with the lawsuits. I read all about that. Steve wanted to go I know all about But again, I can only So that's the reason But one of the point is he wasn't an engineer. This is where you mind and the engineering minds They have complementary skills. Well, there's a big that maybe humanities programs I was at a state about two years But their governor to charge extra university for And so the &quot;Chronicle David Barash said that the and so-called useless humanities cannot be ignored. Now one thing about calligraphy You actually have to do it. And there is a need I thought this was You want evidence based? &quot;Science,&quot; the when students read helps them with some rather than just reading or something like that, I have to say, of books I like when I'm and it's really boring. OK, some of the other work was to look at the things They're going up a chute meat plant for example. They were afraid of a Shadows, reflections, seeing people standing up ahead. Things that we And if you take those a light to get rid of a they don't like then they would move through especially when it was Now how many people is locked onto that Raise your hand if OK, we're doing JPL a little bit Well see, that's purely the Well I know there's some people so I think I'll about some of the When I was young, I could fix everything If I could just build everything would be perfect. What I found is equipment's The other half is wanting to do things right. Now I have a saying. Heat softens steel. And then people like me who shape it and bend it And when McDonald's, decided that they were about bad stuff going that resulted in And it was my job And I came up with a very that was like traffic And if you didn't follow certain you failed the McDonald's audit. 95% of the cattle dead fail the audit. You've got to get them all Only three animals are in the stunning area. Only 1% falling. And if you want a real can get hit with if you want excellent score. Simple, very simple. You see, these are I'm not telling you They are very simple And it worked because it was simple. When big customers say that then things are Walmart has just come they came out with two days in swine houses to make the pigs up with gate rods or some other really I'm sure you've all seen I think that's a great show. I saw those kind of bosses' when I took some from some of the large hamburger to farms and slaughterhouses. I remember the day-- this around that time-- when saw a half-dead dairy cow Boy, that was a real I'd like to do &quot;Undercover Legislature.&quot; [APPLAUSE] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: people who do things cause traffic jams. And we've got a real, real for them. It's about 10 miles And we're going to He'll just have his license There'll be a $50 debit card couple of beans on the shelf, OK, you report to work You're going to be And we've taken away your Let's let them get a taste of up against. Living in a total [APPLAUSE] Now look at how the put an ear on each other. And then the other ear is on me. Watch, animals it's All about details. Well, there's what the looks like. In fact, I saw your great Think I'll go Google That's always fun. And I show this and I'll say, OK I can improve here, Well, with one thing that's I got white translucent plastic. So they're not going But the bad thing is-- my students don't got three people standing be standing. Then sometimes the most Now there's evidence that language covers up Because there's a type the language parts of art comes out for about And when van Gogh was I don't think he realized he And there's going to be on a guy who got in a bar fight And now he's a mathematician Sort of got his inner Yep, there's a lot don't know about the brain. Now an important thing, who thinks the way I do, My approach to things, on developing equipment was to go around and look at You go download, you'd Well, we couldn't download We had to write to the It was a real pain. But you'd get all get all the state of the art. Go around, visit and try to get the good ideas, In other words, it's bottom up Well today what's happening, stuff, too much top down. Very vague things. But concepts are formed When I was a young OK, all the cat pictures pictures in this file. Well, when I was very young, by size. Until our next door OK, now I can no longer use for cat versus dog. So then I noticed they shape if they were dogs. So that was a visual feature Everything's learned So how do I learn what Well, my mother would Forgot to say please? Well, say please. That's nice behavior. You wait politely in line That's nice behavior. You want to teach something a lot of different examples. Because there's some kids put that in, just They need to learn that could in the cupboard, Not necessarily in So up can walk up the the plane flew up in the air. Lot of different examples. My thinking is associative, just So if I'm at the Chicago often-- OK, I'll look at that. Now I can start looking through A glass structure category, Or I could start off There are no This was something a breakthrough in my thinking steeple as my question Something that people weren't OK, glass structure. Biosphere in Arizona, greenhouse at Colorado State. Now when I'm on am seeing a building that's Now I'm seeing other buildings and the contractors used up 25 spaces for their trailers. OK, so that's how I got to contractor trailers. Real sore point with me. I wasn't home when I think I would have walked out and told them to But once they got established, Did they ask permission to I'm sure they did not. OK, airport category. Now when you think about let's start thinking the public can understand. This is worth $5 billion. And they're building a new I gotta get the price going to be quite a lot when that's done. But if we start of these big amounts of money units, then people can So you got Denver Airport, Atlanta. And you've got the grungy And it'd be fun to And when I asked an steeples, he saw a motion of I go, oh wow. Trippy. That is definitely not my mind. Now cattle will make a category. If they get used to being they've learned that's safe. The first time they see the You see, it's different. It's a different picture. I've learned man on Man on the ground's I can also learn that man But that's something You see, most people wouldn't is something novel. Now I find when you're trying a lot of people have where's a problem coming from? OK, if I got something is there's something wrong wrong with how people are I find people often don't If it's equipment Course with the meat plant-- with them- stuck trolley. Or is it a fundamental They don't make that I've got a problem Does he have a Maybe his tummy hurts so much in school. Or does he just not It's just strictly behavior? Top down thinkers tend to when they're not doing Well, I got this out of about dog fooding. You know, you gotta use Then you really find out Policymakers need to the consequences And if you want to mess up jam, then you need to be stuck traffic jam. Well, there are It was very cool to You know, kind of It's OK to be eccentric. That's OK. Some of the most creative people and they're doing And in talking to to tell the public well, offs from maybe some Not stuff from the '60s. That's ancient history. Let's look at inventions How about the That's the heart of How about coding will help the phone to work to another cell phone tower? How about a mass Yeah, we have mass spectrometers Well, you can put and it'll tell you Well that would have a lot Well, I was more interested in than pictures of people. But we need people 'Cause the social going to solve some and stuff like that. Let's have some of the I don't care if they're labeled quirky, One thing you gotta do with is you gotta stretch them just And the other thing is we need That needs to start at age 12. We need to find paper Things like walking things like maybe setting center, something like that. One place where all my teachers I wasn't allowed to become That was absolutely not allowed. I had to get out and do things. Kids aren't doing teaches valuable social skills. You know, dogs need to do Because if dogs don't do then they fight other dogs they never learned Taking out the hands-on the schools ever did. They took out cooking, sewing, welding. We have a shortage I mean, JPL needs people and stuff for the Mars lander. Oh, there's something about the wheels of &quot;Curiosity.&quot; I'm gonna just let And I don't know if I'm But it's so geeky and anti-suit, But they need to have It's not going to The other thing that's bad about is we're losing resourceful Even something as You're missing an ingredient? Can you do it with 'Course in the '50s, So I had a wonderful I was in fourth grade. And I remember one project and I ruined it Some of the things you learn This is the stuff that saved me. These were things that were Kids that did the teasing were or interested in riding horses. I was also an Estes A I loved model rockets. I was in the model rocket club. And I was horrified go about a month ago, and you That is disgusting! [AUDIENCE LAUGHS] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: The And I made a few points when I made a rocket that a Mr. [INAUDIBLE]. And he was aerodynamically [AUDIENCE LAUGHS] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: And I but I was in a special for gifted kids with a And instead of studying, our [INAUDIBLE] house. But the headmaster let was learning work skills. And a lot of these kids are I cleaned a lot of horse Lots and lots of them. And I was responsible and making sure I always Gotta always close the dies if eats out You've got to close it. I think we need to limit The thing that I'm and with little kids want to play with electronics. But we need to get and get them taking turns. These kids have got to Well, I think we need to physical connections and the real world. And one really enterprising mom, got some two by fours brought them all and had the kids Minecraft blocks In other words, linking the Then her little autistic kid to play with the Activities with animals. Get kids involved in activities 4H, FFA, robotics clubs, Get them involved My ability in art was We need to be working the area of strength. The kid's good at math, let Use fixations to motivate. Great online sources. Now I was reading or some of these things of the people took I don't consider that a failure. Because there's an that might want to just look and just take a couple of they needed for work. Because back when I was doing I had all these And I didn't need I had all these tables for Look it up in the tables. And when I first started and I did read the But I didn't read all the books. I used them as reference books. I think the thing they need to people that went on Udacity took and it helped them I think that's something But I show this to that don't realize there's a And we gotta do something It is beyond awful. You cannot play videos. And you go out in you still got the mom because they don't It's just that simple. It is atrocious. Well, there's the I got fixated on that. And the movie did a nice And there's one of my I know you don't own it I've seen some really with teenage kids and then they're printing their Really, really cool stuff. And I really liked had on the Maker Bot website. You need patience-- that's kind You get mad at it, Knowhow and a sense I really liked that thing Yeah, you don't design it is going to collapse in goo. You're getting back The other thing on something they can't afford that. OK, it's $1,500, $2,000. Look at all the money's That's the price of one major It's all it costs. Maybe two high school uniforms. It's not very much money. I don't want to hear that. Now that's just a kind of And this is some views a great little really adorable It's $150. No fiddly mirror. Very easy for kids to use. You don't have a And I was so happy to It wasn't the autism conference. I wish this had been at It was at the gifted conference. We had a hotel room And all these kids, they'd and they were playing And they're looking at And it was really cool. Just got to show people. And you guys know about this But I do a lot of talks and I just want to give that are out there. There's some evidence that kids can help them on reading. On learning reading, maybe turn and use the plain ebook, maybe And you have them read to them. And they're learning And again, this is refereed. Scientific stuff. We're going evidence based here. Well, people need to I had a really good They found that get them off the computers And when they print on their 3D printer, they put so they could touch them. You gotta touch to see. Gotta do that. Science teacher. Boy, he helped me. Well, he was a NASA Was he a credited teacher? No. No stupid ed courses for him. We gotta get back to doing That's what we gotta do. [APPLAUSE] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: One want today is students This came up in a lot of things. I learned to sell Also in working with some of you don't take that develop some new software. You want to say OK, I want to phone and it does it uses this You don't tell them got certain parameters. Then OK, that's easy to do. And when mistakes needs to just pull them no yelling and screaming, we had the project and you called Jim a jerk colleagues. That's not the Google Just don't do that. And I learned you can will sabotage a project That was very, very difficult And then you get other think differently. You kind of differentiate Well, if I in was in a plant, and the plant engineer's I was hired by the like this weird geek I would pull him into project. And that oftentimes OK, tour guide. Great job for 12 year-olds. You gotta demonstrate to get from the visitor. Demonstrate the It's just like coaching And there's sensory issues. Some people just can't can't stand 60 cycle You got a lot of can vary from being very This needs to be to treat some of these problems. When I was a little kid, I still absolutely hate the And if I'd had to deal I would have been sure I'd be My visual thinking mind went and they were They had this big circular that maybe its through the floor of my room. Which was just ludicrous. But when you're it wasn't quite so ludicrous. I had trouble hearing So my speech enunciated the hard consonants. She'd say cup, and Slow down, enunciate it Attention shifting. I have problems with this. Somebody rings a Takes me much longer Attention shifting slowness. Some people when the print will That's probably that are having some Doesn't explain all autism. It doesn't explain all dyslexia. But there's something wrong Shape, color, emotion, texture. They're not merging And sometimes they can be Like pale pink glasses, different print your work on maybe try different on the computer screen, Now wouldn't it be or flunk out of school I'm finding one this problem in my Because they do really horrible They cannot draw. If I say draw this, That's what they draw. They don't see it. Well, there's my head. Well, and that's all the And the gray matter-- this Something got changed here. There should be a little space Something got out of And that's all the that are the interoffice That's where you in developmental problem. Well, my fear center Well, that's controlled now Little Prozac Us visual I know a lot of a little dab of Prozac in the stops the anxiety. Then you're not getting whacked Cerebellum's smaller, so Simple accommodations Some people have gotta fluorescent lights. They need a quiet place to work. Open office plan and I gotta do The other thing with people that are is a sudden change They come into work we're yanking out all and we're going to move them. OK, if we're going to do Maybe a week at And I still can't Scratchy clothes just horrible. Like sandpaper. Some cotton itches, other Now the thing is it's When the space there were a lot of people And I got thrown out for throwing a book at And when I went to I got in a fistfight after a guy called And they took horseback I still had to clean the And somehow I It's OK for geeks to cry. That's perfectly OK. And I would go and hide because the tech companies [AUDIENCE LAUGHS] DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: that it made me chuckle to and here's this big giant To think that bolts on the Mars kept in a Craftsman tools chest. But you better not otherwise it's bye-bye job. It's that simple. It takes a village We gotta figure work together to Because I'm seeing going down the wrong road. I go to the gifted meeting, I go to the autism got one situation ought to be headed for with kids that don't talk. Then I go to another and he's headed in the right It's very, very, very variable. But these two silos don't talk. Because if I look at the book and the autism be a 5% overlap in the books. There should be more like They're not talking We gotta get people together. As I say, one geek goes to JPL. There's another geek that goes And unfortunately, that is going to the basement hours a day and he gets That's not where No. We've got to reach And you know what? We gotta hook them Middle school is where And some states now are OK, I think that finishes But I've got time for questions. Always like to do [APPLAUSE] AUDIENCE: I'm curious over you've shared a lot had about the experience of I'm curious about you learned over your career. Like where maybe on some of your earlier is what I understand so DR. TEMPLE GRANDIN: Well, I mean, for one my first professional group of Agricultural I could fix the world I absolutely believed could be fixed with engineering. I now realize only half of it And I had a major which was a real epiphany. I was hired by a company in plants. The pigs had to walk in the real old plants. And they wanted me to to put in the floor of the chute And I said, I'll design that. Well, the problem is it flipped And it did not work and But then I started are some pigs not capable Well, I start getting of the different that all the pigs that a And they had a genetic problem the hips are very, very weak. What I should have done, by that was treating a We should have gone For a fraction of the cost we could have bought that new boars is all it just a few thousand of that genetic problem. Would have solved it. One thing I learned got the treat problem rather than treating a Now I went into about a six That was not fun. But I learned a really AUDIENCE: Thank you. FEMALE SPEAKER: So So please everybody Temple Grandin for [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]