It is 80 degrees here in Los Angeles, yet I sophisticated. For as long as the internet has of practical jokes on it. But as this information complexity, people were able to get more creative, the entire space in 2007, this had never been example, here is just ONE example of these online [RICKROLL] Ha! Ha! I got you! You clicked on this but I still got you! Yes, one of the most famous the Rick Roll. As we all know its premise is it a disguise, some kind of interesting call target to want to click on it, and before they You Up" appears and they have been bamboozled. It it may be even older. But regardless, it became and eventually branched its way beyond the screen movies, protests, infiltrating the MTV awards, was really was, in many respects, a defining other practical jokes from the internet at the really makes it standout. And it all has to do as the effect it has--I don't know what that was--as why? Pranks are meant to be at the expense of the video to a song that was popular in 1987? Keep [RICKROLL] Okay, I'll stop. [CHIME SOUND] You look a little bored. Am I boring you? get some lovely, refreshing rest with Manta situation is different. Some people need to maybe you're like me and need some kind of white the Manta Sleep mask is here to help, as it is it right on and--Haha! I can't see anything. how this looks on camera. I have here the Manta that wraps around the back of your head, really cool is that you can connect your phone sounds you want! Whether it's a podcast you anything! Giving you just the right amount of also find it useful for other things too, like need to collect my thoughts, I'll just sit with it just keeps you right in the now, and sometimes link or using my code at checkout, you can get 10% getting tired. Well, you know what to do. Thank Now the story of the famous Rick Roll starts with course. Never Gonna Give You Up was actually his behind the song itself and how it was created, why it was so popular, and how that pertains to video, what are some of the first things that come almost gaudy in its appearance, accompanied by contrasting in this visual tone. A "voice doesn't and off-putting but in a charming way. And if you will see this style was everywhere. The 80s, as a apply to other decades too, but the 80s were the Counterculture and Sexual Revolution of the loosened since then, but still had a ways to go world had when Rick Rolling showed up. And this 80s that also carried a bit of ambivalence. It was [LOW VOICE SINGING] deep-dive into 1980s culture, (though if you so I'll just give you the jist of it. This artform derived from late 70s English punk rock, known as sparking what is known by historians as the this style was now very common in music videos. although not nearly as showy as other songs qualities. The song was a national hit. the world changes and so does the culture obviously things were very different. The 80s remember it from their childhoods, but long ago we dressed like that?" "We sang those songs?" sites like YouTube. And YouTube, just like every way. Just like how you may get duped into clicking prank video. But what is the basic setup of a doing something that advances the prank by giving you subvert their expectations but you also sort the first place. "It is just a prank, brother." the "screamer." Can you pass Ahh! Scary ghost face! An ad for a brand new car? that not only makes the victim feel stupid, [SCREAMS] And YouTube, the video-sharing site, made these allowed for screamers to blend right in with YouTube Partner program, an uploader could not the thumbnail would just be the frame of the exact choose a frame from the first half or the third workaround to this though. Go into your video image you want. It shows up SO briefly it doesn't on YouTube you have videos with some really crazy, one frame, even if the rest of the video was the time measured views based on how many clicks a saw that it was fake, and immediately clicked off, something called "clickbait." And screamers are in mind this is also before likes and dislikes which is a bit more difficult to read if you're who the hell am I, Siskel and Ebert? I sure look "Austin Powers 4 Teaser Trailer" and it's a bunch of views, so it has to be legit! And as isn't this from the second movie, haven't I even tell the difference between a real and fake But why does it have to be a jumpscare? Isn't prank need to be humiliated? Can't a prank just Well on April Fools' Day of 2007, the founder of replaced the word "egg" with "duck." And so thought it was so funny they even created an image hyperlinks everywhere with very interesting titles And then the trailer for Grant Theft Auto 4 comes because of all the traffic (refer to the "Michael anyway, people naturally start uploading mirrors decides to put a little spin on it. The duckroll gotta be a video. And so Shawn googles the top and sure enough, Rick Astley's "Never Gonna it's not crude. It's just a music video, that's they just got pranked. Instead of duckroll, he links to the GTA 4 trailer that direct them RickRolling was born. The original upload still of whom undeniably came against their will. But earlier examples of RickRolling, An episode of used the song as comic relief. A caller into a a joke instead of talking. Family Guy parodied video was uploaded. There was just a lot of people the quintessential work of all 80s tropes, and Rick Rolling was now a YouTube sensation, further adding to that unpredictability of which not so much. It really helped in giving YouTube had at the time. They even put it all over the starting to rub off on the real world too! The San Caroline during a game and replaced the chorus a protest for the Church of Scientology. SO many people, millions of them, voted for that he ended up being the winner! and that was actually how he discovered the something else, but it was just him. Initially, he thing. He felt that capitalizing would just so for a good moment he just didn't really do During the 2008 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, entire situation even more wholesome than it joke was now there having fun with it. that started the Rick Roll is now much older, the generation once removed. The upload of the release of Rick Astley's "Never Gonna Give You Up" with the 80s, a lot has changed since the 2000s. with the Rick Roll are just gonna look at it and why it exists. It not only serves as a reminder someone's integrity, but that we, as people, do even through that, will find ways to relate about this in an interview, and he bring up a [RICKROLL] Ha-ha-have-to-change-that-oil-ha-ha. It never gets old. At least not for me. But can prevent yourself from ever getting Rick me on Patreon. Patreon.com/NationSquid. a Rick Roll link because, uh, money. A special thanks to my patrons this video possible. Thank you so much please subscribe and click the notification