I've been put in a really difficult position here. I love my ROG Ally. It's my go-to handheld PC. And after spending some time previewing the Ally X, it is so much better that what I wanna do is the same thing I did last time and tell you guys, run out and buy it right now. But what if ASUS does the same thing as last time? What if there's a flaw in the hardware and they not only refuse to issue a recall, but refuse to acknowledge it at all? They've got some serious community trust issues to address and my hope is that They will have taken decisive action that I can display on screen right now to Because if they can do that the ally X is sick I mean our hardware isn't technically final, but guys they have fixed everything chassis more comfortable thumbsticks better materials and replaceable with Hall effects from Gillykit expensive XG mobile expansion interface replaced with industry standard USB 4 and guys that's just for starters now given that this is a preview Asus wouldn't authorize the publication of graphs but hey they did leave the device in our hands and we do have a testing lab so I might make some let's call them predictions about performance that are going to blow your... mind. Even if you feel like you can't trust ASUS right now. Speaking of companies you can't trust, how about our sponsor, Dbrand? Those freaking guys, I half expect something to pop out of it and like stick into my eye. They recently launched their Kill Switch case for the original ROG Ally, and it's getting rave reviews over on Reddit. It dramatically improves the digging in of the bottom corners, and the grippiness is just outstanding. Check out dbrand.com/killswitch if you want to grab one for your ally or steam or hey, if you don't want to buy anything and you just want to harass them to Let's begin with what the Ally X isn't. It isn't the Ally 2, so there's no major leap forward for gaming performance. In order to achieve that, Asus would have had to wait for AMD's Strix Point mobile chips, which would have increased the device's price dramatically. It also isn't a major leap in screen quality. In fact, Asus says that they not only aren't using an OLED display, they're using the exact same panel as last time. With that out of the way, there are performance improvements, and some of them We're getting more memory at faster speeds, and a truly impressive doubling in And all of this is somehow without tipping the scale. It is heavier than both the old Ally and the Steam Deck OLED, but it's within striking distance of the original Steam Deck, and honestly guys, to my hands, it doesn't really feel that noticeable. Now, we were very interested in how gaming battery life would be impacted by I predict that the Ally X will not last three times as long as the original, but that it will last considerably more than twice as long, both in endurance and in full stress situations. So I predict that you will no longer be stuck plugging in if you want to game at full performance for longer than about 45 minutes. Absolute game changer. And while we are still limited to AMD's Z1 Extreme APU, the additional 8 gigs of DDR5 for a total of 24 gigs running at 7,500 MHz should result in a few more FPS in your favorite titles. Now, not every game is going to see a big uplift. For example, I predict that Grid Legends will test basically the same on both But, while the unit that I'm holding is still defaulting to 10, 15, and 25 watts for each of the stock power profiles, Asus has told us that the plan is to launch the new Ally with each profile since they've got all that extra battery headroom now. That should result in minor but measurable increases across pretty much every game. Let's play with it. I gotta say, the color? It's not as striking, it definitely looks more generic, almost like... They're copying the MSI Claw now, but white is not a good color for something I want to do a blind test for weight. Okay. Okay, blindfold me. Wait, no! I have a better idea. I'm gonna take this wonderful dip-dye hoodie ...and do this with it. How many fingers am I holding up? Three. No, he's wrong. Alright, he's blind. I'm gonna have to be careful not to touch the bottoms, because it's more rounded on the new one. I like that way better. So I'm just gonna kind of grab them like a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle. Here's the first one. Okay, so this is one. Okay. Okay, you got that. Here's the other one. Oh man, when I held that first one, I was like, &quot;Oh, that's definitely the new one.&quot; But now I'm not sure. Number one. I feel like I'm at the... ...opetition. Okay. And... two. This is the original? Yeah. Okay. You're right, it's really close. Let's have a look at some of our other changes here. I can't say that I particularly noticed the difference in material on the joysticks. But with that said, Plouffe, you didn't mention the ring on the top. I actually really like that, how it kind of cups the tip of your thumb a little bit better. Big fan of that. Ooh, and they're tighter. So you can replace them with thumbsticks from Gillykid, but you may not want to, at least not until they die. ABXY buttons sit a little bit higher. You know what? I think I like that too. I remember having this debate with the Aya Neo guys. They switched over to more of a micro switch style button and I was like, oh guys, I really don't like that. And they're like, well, we do. And I was like, okay, cool. I guess I'll daily an Ally now. This is. Even more better for from my perspective. Oh, triggers are bigger. Oh Yeah, that's nice and these rear buttons are a lot smaller as someone who I consider that an improvement. I'm gonna hit them accidentally way less often You can actuate them from any direction. Oh, oh Interesting you can mash them like that Like that like that Or like that, or just press them Yeah, the old ones do not have that capability Hmm more venting cool cool. I'll never say no to that Standing in basically the same spot in Ghost of Tsushima running at 1080p medium Dynamic resolution scaling or anything like that. I predict that we will see It's not a lot And it might not even be the kind of thing that you would notice day-to-day But it is measurable even if we couldn't measure it. It's definitely heavy, but so was the old Ally I think the deck might be a little stiffer not by much, and this is technically I didn't notice how much thicker it was for how little more it weighs of course Going to be able to take advantage of the high refresh rate display unless we're So let's close this down and try something where we can all right that is smooth I suspect that this is going to be something of a controversial choice because It's OLED. It's HDR. You get none of that here, but what you do get is 120 Hertz Something that I think is maybe more important than any of those things on a And when you're going to be dealing with frame rates in the 20 to 40 range It's something that can make a very, very noticeable difference in animation smoothness. How about this Asus? Two versions. Ally X, Ally O, emulation guys, especially later consoles like the PS3. It's heavy 'cause it not only hits the GPU hard, it hits the CPU super hard as well. So having that extra battery, man, makes it a much more viable use case. Here's DemonSouls running an RPCS3. Am I seeing a difference in performance? No. But am I seeing that PS3 emulation is totally a thing on these devices? Yes. Now, guys, the keen-eyed among you will have probably noticed that in addition to the other changes we've talked about already, we've now got two USB-C ports on the top. This left one is just USB 3.2 Gen whatever, but the one on the right is a full fat... Thunderbolt compatible hopefully USB 4 port and there are a couple of reasons The first is that with two ports you're a lot less dock dependent if you want to Or in my case on that long flight to Japan plug in an external USB-C monitor and The second is that the ability to plug in an eGPU via Thunderbolt will allow you to supercharge this thing for gaming on a bigger screen without being stuck paying desktop prices for laptop-grade XG mobile GPUs. Oh, and while the battery may have doubled, charging time hasn't, thanks to a hundred watts of power delivery support over those USB-C ports. Now, unfortunately though, the included charger didn't get leveled up at the so you'll need a third-party one in order to take advantage of that. Boo. Now, a second thing that you keen ires probably noticed is that the micro SD About that. Thanks to this article from Hackaday that was published on May the 4th, it looks like someone is finally shining a light on what the heck was going on failures, even if Asus refuses to do so. If Hackaday is correct, which I predict that they are. The thermals were never the issue. The issue is that they used a certain model Now we're gonna have the article linked in the description down below, and what we're also hopefully going to have is a strong, decisive statement from Asus that acknowledges the situation, and lays out a path forward that takes care of their many Ally customers. Or as I'll be calling them, Allies. In fairness to Asus. They have covered the SD failures so far, and they've increased the coverage for that issue from one year to two, but that's not enough. What I want to see from them here and going forward is better transparency. We have no idea what percentage of the original Allies were or will be affected. And Asus still hasn't formally acknowledged that it's a hardware flaw, which I predict that it is. And if it's a hardware flaw... That sounds to me like the kind of thing that should either be recalled, or proactively dealt with. So, until this gets cleared up, and Asus manages to demonstrate that they can be Like, okay, have you guys ever heard someone say, &quot;Don't hate the developer, The Ally X team should be so proud of this. They should be so proud that they helped... Asus finally find incredible. But even if I might make the personal choice to I'm not going to be able to recommend it, even though I really want to. I predict that the thermals will improve by more than five, but less than 10 thanks to larger heat pipes and more fan blades. The board and chassis have been redesigned, so we can fit a double-sided 2280 SSD in here. Guys, you can put up to an 8TB SSD in this thing, and speaking of capacity, it comes with 1TB out of the box now, which is double the previous generation. It's a hundred bucks more for fundamentally the same Core specs, but This is more than the sum of its parts, which actually I wonder is it more Why don't we take it apart? Wow, that's a lot of battery Look at it go. I Like this. Here's the daughter boards for the joysticks. So replacing those is What did I take out six screws plus another three per daughter board and a Flipping awesome. These fans are tiny based on how much quieter it sounded to my Not what I was expecting to see I mean how often has that ever happened you get I sure I guess so heat pipe sticker. There's the big SSD slot So awesome. I I was really Irrationally, so but really upset that the original Ally only supported 2230. So we can put a full-size SSD in this thing and they're cheaper to write the 2280s just because of the economies of scale. They make a lot more of them. There's more competition in the 2280 VRMs have thermal shmoo there One thing I would like to know is if the wi-fi card is a separate card. I doubt I suspect it's soldered, but I wouldn't mind knowing that Uh Wi-Fi chip is soldered That's all I really needed to dig further to find out kind of a bummer We saw this with the Steam Deck where the OLED came in like, &quot;Yeah, we've got Like, yeah, but if you had just had a mini PCIe slot on the board in the I understand, I get it, integration takes cost, you know. But I would like to see replaceable Wi-Fi modules on these in addition to The more I like this thing, the more disappointing it is that Asus just can't I guess the silver lining is that they've still got time. The Ally X doesn't actually launch for about another month. And I'd like for a moment to directly address Asus leadership here to say that I look forward to seeing a commitment to real lasting change. And I also look forward to telling you about our sponsor, Dbrand. They say their ROG Allie kill switch case is practically indestructible. Ha ha. This poor table. Not bad, dbrand. Not bad. Check it out at the link in the video description. Thanks for watching. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe take a look at our Aya Neo coverage that we've done over the last couple of years. They make neat little handhelds just even more expensive.