(bright music) - [Jake] Hey, today we're You saw the title, you saw the thumbnail, you know what's up. We're just talking about 10 games that are still really good 20 years later. Let's just get started off with number 10. &quot;Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Now, look, sometimes a game and let me tell you, &quot;Jedi a flawed game, especially with more than 20 years of hindsight. There's a lot of bad, but that they elevate the whole thing. So if you don't already have then getting through might be rough. For the first hour or two, the game just really and all the fun stuff, and just forces you to explore using all the worst weapons in the game. (guns firing) (enemies shouting) You get a painfully slow pistol which is a little too movie accurate because you can't hit anything I used to be more but going back to it now, it's just a long slog of a section. And then, when the game with the lightsaber, into the city level, covered in snipers where you can't even It's like the game is I just wanna cut up dudes Is that too much to ask? Still, once you're past all that, the game gets exponentially better. You get some actual Force and they put you in some places where you can finally just let and it is still one of the The sequel, &quot;Jedi Academy,&quot; is kind enough to give you a lightsaber which is a massive improvement, but that game kind of feels more of like an expansion pack I like a lot of it, but &quot;Jedi Outcast&quot; just way more overall. With &quot;Jedi Outcast,&quot; the lows are low, but the highs are just so much fun that it just makes the game still great. (guns firing) Now, next over at number nine, &quot;The Chronicles of Riddick: Yes, does this feel like a So in 2004, man, this was a rare breed of a first-person shooter, an actually good movie tie-in game. It was meant to be a prequel and it was like released around the time of &quot;The Chronicles of Riddick,&quot; if you remember one of those movies. But actually knowing the source material doesn't really matter here. All that matters is you're a spaceman, you're Riddick, and you're locked up in space At the time, the for this game. The graphics were like the way the game what we were used to seeing in most games. The actual gameplay is but a little simplified for consoles. In this game's case, the in its favor. The game never gets or too micromanagey. There's always like forward as you work to escape. There are some side quests, some satisfying jailhouse melee combat, some shooting and sneaking. - Ready to die, Riddick? (characters grunting) (knives clanking) (characters grunting) (knives clanking) - [Jake] It's a game with carefully portioned and as fun as possible. You'd think a game about would be boring, but Riddick starts getting There's very little time spent just kind of puttering around into cells, and the majority of the around secure locations and shanking dudes and getting into gunfights. It's not a long game, but the fast pace and the really excellent presentation just makes it one of our and play just for fun. Sometimes you just want that can be finished in a few sittings. Now, the semi sequel or remake, in contrast goes on a little too long and isn't really as but it's not a bad follow-up thing. The original may not look but it is fun as hell to Now, continuing with one number eight, &quot;Max Payne the original &quot;Max Payne&quot; is a classic, but that's been talked about enough. Let's talk about the sequel. In 2003, this game was and one of the first games to utilize Valve's revolutionary and they used it to great effect. The shootouts were fantastic, and the story is where we see Remedy really evolve their style. At a time where experimental, were all the rage, &quot;Max Payne like full &quot;Metal Gear If there's one thing still hold up today, it's the shooting. (guns firing) - Grenade! (grenade exploding) (guns firing) - Look out! (guns firing) - [Jake] It still feels great, like where the first game was this game, he's way way more movability here. The new bullet time mechanics more effective this time around and watching his bullets and send guys flopping and doesn't get old. Where other &quot;Max Payne&quot; this game just embraces the chaos with explosives everywhere, and you mow down bad It is just glorious. Now, there's some arguments to be made, but I would say this story is It's dark and it's weird in ways that make it Even if stuff like the character models aren't going to be they used to look like real people. The game is short, but the and it's just worth playing. Next, over at number seven What even needs to be said It's a true open-world classic from 2004. For a lot of people, it's still the best maybe one of the best things which is crazy considering only two years after &quot;Vice City.&quot; They were really on something for this. The thing about the &quot;Grand is that, in some ways, they They're missing a lot of the features we've come to expect in open-world games. They can be frustrating with the crazy difficulty the no mid-mission saving. If you die, then you gotta go back and do everything all over again. All you had to do was follow (engine rumbling) - All we had to do was - [Jake] &quot;San Andreas&quot; has by of the trilogy, but that slap you across with some confusing mechanics and weird, fiddly controls that just make them miserable to play. If you've played, you know stuff like the remote or the airplane training like I said before, In situations like these, San Andreas was a little too but that only slightly detracts For an open-world crime game, it's still one of the It's got some of the best, in the entire series, and the celebrity voice across the board, they to play the bad guy, it's perfect. The rags to riches story with the length of the game, and it helps that not literally is a total bad guy for once. Yeah, they're all criminals, but there are some actually It's not high art but it's got that excellent Rockstar The music as well, it's a Now, if they would stop from re-release, that will be nice. At least they can't patch Yeah, I still got it. For someone going back to San Andreas after experiencing it's gonna feel jarring Let's be honest, the game Still looks better than that but the the crazy ambition just puts it on a level This is Rockstar games and it's all the better for it. Next over at number six, Now, this all-time classic is but it's somehow still one of the most satisfying The first &quot;Rollercoaster Tycoon&quot; is great, don't get it twisted, but the sequel is the the game that even modern park It's the template, it's because it's so perfectly captures something we've all dreamt about. I mean, what kid hasn't their own amusement park or have the idea about the craziest, most over-the-top rollercoaster? It's a simple but such a The actual park management but not too technical For us, this is the part of the game that modern park builders Sure, &quot;Planet Coaster&quot; looks than this game, but the isn't quite up to snuff. With the original the park building and is fun to engage with. It's just like a well-rounded game. (buttons clicking) If you don't care about or any of that boring stuff, then just give yourself a ton of money and build whatever you want. Make the most ridiculous Make the true theme park It doesn't matter. Just do what you want. &quot;Rollercoaster Tycoon&quot; doesn't care. This is a management game where the fun part is different Some people prefer that park management, some people want to build and some people just wanna and try and murder as many Either way, it's just a fun (rollercoaster wheels clacking) Next, over at number five, Now, I know this one is kind of obvious and it did get a re-release but we just wanted a good &quot;Metroid Prime&quot; shouldn't have worked. I mean the idea of with a first-person shooter waiting to happen, but It's better than just working. It's great. It's one of the best but what's so much more impressive is that its success has Yeah, and it came out with two sequels to somewhat diminishing and a smattering of some there's never really been anything quite like &quot;Metroid Prime.&quot; Going back and playing the may take some getting used to but that recent remaster I mentioned just brings back and move controls, so it's (dragon roaring) (laser blasting) But I still think the original holds up, even if the remaster is What makes the original is how they managed to the side-scrolling &quot;Metroid&quot; It doesn't feel like an FPS, it feels like a &quot;Metroid&quot; game, Exploration is still the focus here. The Morph Ball still works almost all the essential and the game manages to like different visors and or let you scan things in or learn about enemies, and It's where you get a lot and it's so well done. You can either ignore it and the game doesn't but on top of all that, the The music, the environmental design, and the way things interact really make you feel like Simple stuff like making when you're looking up and Samus' reflection in the visor, occasionally just and of course, that sense of the music, the feeling, you just feel like you're &quot;Metroid Prime&quot; is full and details like that. It was immersive on a level you rarely see in games from 2002. (dramatic music) Now, over at number four, I have to say it like but we would argue that of its power in 2003 with this one. At the time, this fighting game Making an exclusive character was a brilliant marketing and then the game itself was but very hard to master. It looked really great. The character designs but that gameplay is awesome. It's just a fun fighting game to play it. (characters speaking indistinctly) (blows landing) (characters grunting) (tense music) It's not the most expertly but it's refreshing without all like that unnecessary like comeback mechanics It's just &quot;Soulcalibur&quot; There's a simple pleasure that more complex fighting Pretty much anyone can and even do somewhat well, at least if they pick The presentation was stellar for the time. It still is pretty charming now. There's a ton of extra It's one of the earlier to actually feel like it's because there was a lot These days, that doesn't matter too much, but that's what made the Now, all that really and in our opinion at least, it holds up. You can argue that the is pretty much dead. There's &quot;Tekken&quot; and that's so it's fun to go back and play a proper 3D It's one of the all-time It's so easy to jump in and play. It's not the perfect fighting game. The competitive balance is out of whack, but as far as the fun fighting games go, they don't really get much (characters shouting) Now, at number three, I know this game needs no introduction. It's an all-time classic. It's gone on the influence The game is carefully constructed, it's extremely well-paced, it's varied, it's exciting and surprising. It's one of the best and on the strength of the game design, it's still holds up extremely well. Now, the graphics aren't This is a 2004 game, and unmodded, unaltered. The revolutionary facial is nothing compared to what The Gravity Gun though of technology in a game. So many games have tried to copy it, but none of managed to as it was in &quot;Half-Life 2.&quot; It's all the little things, like the way metallic objects or the way boxes break or how heavy things move differently from stuff that's lighter. Gravity guns in video but nobody was able to in &quot;Half-Life 2,&quot; how that thing felt. (guns firing) (grenade exploding) (guns firing) The only thing that got even close to that was, of course, the Gravity That actually might be better but yeah, it doesn't have some of the original &quot;Half-Life, &quot;Half-Life 1,&quot; and it's not quite as fast paced. There are more quiet but in terms of variety, the You're always mixing things or vehicles and areas, solving different types of puzzles. It's one of the most inventive and entertaining FPS campaigns ever made. It looks old, and certain will seem outdated or a little hokey now, but there's still a lot that has really never and it's still an adventure (guns firing) - I was hoping we'd get a bit farther before they noticed us again. - [Jake] Now, down at number two, &quot;Jet Set Radio Future&quot; from 2002. This is another one of those rare games where if you squint at it, it looks like it could not more than 20 years ago. This cult classic Xbox launch title just oozes personality and style. It's got an amazing soundtrack and an art design that's and also kind of timeless. (skates clattering) (characters shouting) (upbeat music) It's that beloved Sega and simple, but appealing mixed with fast-paced gameplay and really cool, creative It's a great game that's a Sure, mechanically, it or as complex as the but for us, the more arcade style movement and the more fanciful, make up for the simplified tagging system. And speaking of tagging, You rollerskate around Neo Tokyo, tagging everything in sight, and occasionally, battling It's simple to play. It doesn't have much depth compared to other extreme sports games. The combo system is pretty basic compared to something but that's not really the focus. It's more like an action platformer game. Just that your means of getting around is with these cool future roller skates. It's a game that doesn't try It looks great even now, it's fun to play even now, and the soundtrack is incredible even now. (upbeat music) (characters shouting) Now, down to number &quot;Halo 2&quot; has been in a It just celebrated a because it originally and it got us thinking and it's part of the reason &quot;Halo 2,&quot; what else needs I mean, it's &quot;Halo.&quot; Going back and playing it now, yes, you can really feel it's age and there's no getting around that this is an Xbox Some of the emptiness of reminds you of that at every turn. That being said, it's still great. (guns firing) - Hang on, everyone. (gun firing) - [Jake] &quot;Halo 2&quot; is such an unusual game, like a weird, beautiful miracle because it's kind of incomplete. Bungee was only able to make a fraction of what they had planned, but it only goes to just how much they cooked back then because &quot;Halo 2&quot; managed to despite what reportedly was a The shooting, the dual wielding, &quot;Halo 2&quot; didn't make that but the things they did change, The multiplayer was next level, and while the campaign it was still a massive step Sure, the game is up where you'll never be fooled into thinking that this game is new, but at least with &quot;Halo as part of the &quot;Halo&quot; collection. That collection took a but it is now. &quot;Halo 2&quot; is where the series It wasn't just a flash in This was the real deal, and it remains one of the all-time great Those are 10 games, but I do including &quot;Castlevania: This was a Game Boy Advance it is one of the best &quot;Castlevania&quot; games, not just on handheld, but of all time, and that's high praise for a series that also has &quot;Symphony The thing that really makes is the soul system, where from defeated enemies, which can be used to or grant you special offensive powers. The graphics are clean and because of the Game Boy games had to kind of up the contrast so you could actually see but still, the music was a standout even for a &quot;Castlevania&quot; game, and it's just an all-around This one holds up extremely well. Sure, it's obvious that this but with modern games that chunky handheld look, it barely looks outta place in 2024. Also one other bonus There's not a lot to say about this one. We just wanted to get at on the list today, so why not &quot;SSX 3?&quot; It's one of the best and extreme snowboard games of all time. It is just near perfect. Yes, it's incredibly of its to the music, but if you ask I mean, we're 20 years out, that means this sort of thing That's how it works, right? I'm getting off track is that &quot;SSX 3,&quot; and really, and will remain awesome, or so games that are Obviously, this is up for a lot of debate and there are so many games that we couldn't fit on this list, so we're definitely gonna do more. Let us know in the comments We'd love to hear from you. If you like this video and with us every day and talking sometimes click on the Thank you. But as always, We'll see you guys next time.