Switzerland is this benevolent neighbor whose However, the confederation is far from famous Alpine massifs appreciated by skiers, teeming and complex national culture, rich in the influences of But proud of its independence, Switzerland Alpine valleys have been at the forefront starting with their magnificent lakes that we can still measure the splendor legends. Located in the heart of Europe and nestled between emblems in the canton of Valais. It is by taking the Gornergrat train in majesty. Better known around the world under the altitude of 4,478m has fascinated generations of climbers. Rack railways are a at an altitude of 3100 m. In the distance, other mythical peaks enrich rises to 4634 m above sea level. Although we move away to climb to the summit of towards the hamlet of Findeln, where old such as the emblematic "Chez Vroni" where we families from Zermatt came to spend the summer where their livestock enjoyed excellent pastures. or transported and sold in the village. For a long time, Zermatt was just a small disrupted life, the economy and the scenery: the winter sports resorts in the Alps. The hundred or so hotels erected should not as evidenced by Paul Julen's farm. loudspeakers broadcast is a pure native breed, whose It is still necessary to shave the animals twice a Easier said than done... this real of a single sheep. In the city center, Retto Goba the fresh milk he sources From the 600 liters she liters of yogurt. still have in the surrounding area, which bring together around volumes, but they bring us the milk refines the wheels, essentially "Indeed, the environment in which we some 150 hotels here which are to work here. >> The cemetery welcomes the 500 mountaineers who have ascent on July 14, 1865. have also claimed their share of victims. Edgar Whymper, the first to conquer the hotel that bears his name. Building on its reputation, the Swiss capital of ski resort. Since the construction of Zermatt has become the third Behind the shops on the main street, mazots teem. These charming little chalets, weathered as attics. Head to the center of the country, towards everything you could dream of in Switzerland take a rack railway again, and of the steepest in the world. The cable car is of Mount Pilatus, almost 2000 m above sea level. the lakes in the region, such as that of the 4 cantons, one of the most beautiful towns in the country. The Reuss river which crosses it is dotted with of the city: the Kappelbrucke is one it had to be restored after a fire roof frame, we can still see to energetic Zurich, but above all owes its brilliant artists like Goethe or Wagner, and Victoria, who praised it so highly the town of Zug prospers peacefully. At first surrounded by mountains, and nestled on the water's edge. of Switzerland, one of the wealthiest countries in the . The site was already occupied by a Celtic people , owner of the city with the Confederation on several occasions. an unusual atmosphere spreads over the one of the most celebrated traditional events real page in the city's lively history. As in any Swiss festival, bells thousands of people from all over the ephemeral stadium. Nearly 0 visitors have been installed since stands are divided into sectors, which see today has become "Swiss wrestling" or, in a festive practice of farm boys. These in the summer, accompanying the celebration of the mountain pastures. All that remains of folklore today is sturdy gave way to strong, well- . The goal of the game is simple: pin this tournament is an astonishing success each year coaches with well-established techniques. the difference, it's to enter the circle with the circle and pulling your grip straight to win, the event, the winners will leave with valuable bull demands to reach the podium. The places most vigorous can also compete in "It's a professional sport, they are are 100%. >> Nearby, the banks of Lake Zurich are crosses the city and visits the old quarter, founded long before the arrival of the Romans. financial capital of the country has always been the subject have been perfectly restored. The famous Charles III the Fat, has not aged a bit. The city center is lively but cultivates a enjoy chocolates in comfortable the Lauterbrunnen reveals an exceptional landscape. It invites on both sides some of the country. To access the peaks, you board a dizzying wall, perfectly synchronized with of Murren. Perched on the cliff at an altitude of 1650 m, stage of the ascent, although the view sections of the Schlithorn cable car that we spectacle offered by the heights. At almost 3000m altitude, we discover an city and Lake Interlaken. Nothing is more impressive than this proud The Eiger on the left, then the Monch, and the incomparable Jungfrau rises to 4158 m. When the conditions are right, skiing blessing. On the other side of the Lauterbrunnen gorge, the The village is nestled under imposing which hosts a in the last century, Wengen has retained chalets date from the 17th century. Higher up, the village of Kleine Scheidegg is home to summit. It was a real feat accomplished the rails for 10 km of this highest railway line other to finally reach the platform "It is both the highest railway station arrive the highest. There is also this from which we have an exceptional view also France. >> The majestic Jungfrau sits at 4158 m. At its feet lies the 22 km long. Nine of the peaks Alpine glaciers, it is threatened and suffers which have caused it to largely lose there is a soft and mysterious atmosphere. Large house ephemeral works. Further down the valley, Interlaken Brienz and Thun, which benefit from the of Thun is dominated by a castle which testifies to many migratory birds, forming an a baroque touch to this Alpine scene. Leaving the shores of the lake to reach continues the artisanal tradition of making reserved for festivals and mounted on mountain pastures. Everything is handmade using immutable know-how, are made using quartz-rich sand "We are the 9th generation to do about 200 years." Once the mold is firmly packed, the decorations and incorporated. This is a meticulous operation. The template is ready: this mixture of 80% 1280deg. You will have to wait a good twenty minutes the finishing phase will give it all its shine. over a week this represents 150 units is polished for a long time in order to obtain a "To cast the bells we use masterpieces are now ready for use. We head towards the canton of Fribourg, altitude of around 800 m. The town occupies a remarkable position Sarine valley. Its fortified castle, whose once housed the counts of Gruyeres, the manufacture of the cheese of the same name, but it emblematic commodity of the country: chocolate. Richard Uldry's chocolate factory has gone back "Swiss chocolate is a reference, when the machinery was created for milk chocolate, by adding milk powder. Rodolphe Lindt invented fondant chocolate, was called the conche, a new process for melt in the mouth and which really released if we refer to today's chocolate, it is which will really give an another to discover Charmey, the neighboring village The festival honors the families of farmers and their months spent at altitude. This "Rindya", as we say in dialect, is local cheese producers and artisans. The bells of the Gusset house are in the spotlight. we can already see the shores of Lake Geneva, in the beating heart of Swiss viticulture. The and softens them in winter. The hillsides of Lavaux renowned wines. In the Wannaz estate, the harvest has just harvested according to the maturity of the grape varieties. of Chasselas, so we obviously make a lot "Rhodanian viticulture on the banks of Lake Geneva, and then this reflection of the sun in the water of the bunches are transported to the press. the region, the house and the vines an intact living witness which has survived of Lake Geneva. >> Further up the coast, life is good The immense gardens and vineyards on the the city's emblematic monuments. The was dedicated to Protestant worship in the 16th century. most precious jewel. Place de la Palud is home to the . Looking outwards, Lausanne received the headquarters of the IOC, the international real small inland sea, where the We fish for appreciated by major brands. You can sail the Lake Geneva water jet is the symbol of Geneva, height of 140 m. At the beginning of December, the Old Town vibrates with the colors celebrate the victory of the Genevans over the who failed in his attempt to invest the city by 1602. More than 800 volunteers realistically interpret historic districts of the city, to reach the Swiss Jura and its village not far from Lake Neuchatel. We are here in the heart of enjoyed great success in Switzerland and France in the 19th century absinthe became a clandestine drink, fountains like this one. Nicolas Giger "What is special about it is that it is in stores, I grow my plants I'm 85 years old and I'm feeling like a charm. >> refreshing but you shouldn't drink 3/4 of it Creux-du-Van forms a rocky cirque approximately This now protected nature reserve we meet Philippe Martin, historic establishment, "La Maison des chats", built in 1777. got from my father who himself got it from his uncle, grow 4 which are lemon balm, wormwood. >> In the attic the dryer still in operation has "So this is the great absinthe, there it has in fact here I am lucky to be in a building 19th century, so I am working still in here for at least 12 to 15 months. >> of my distillery, this is the location where I have my the distillation of absinthe must however manufacture of alcohol. Further up, Chaux-de-Fonds is known for its on the UNESCO world heritage list. This mecca workshops merging into residential buildings. Near Lake Neuchatel, "Before us, there were clock creators, the one I have in front of me, it has been restored it is 200 years of age, we pass on a scaler on watch dials, a profession of art. of sand roughly, there is silica, there are "That's the charm of enamel, it's that in my oven. >> The Jura offers a spectacle of forests and Above all, Maria Luisa Wenger cherishes This expert in wild plants picks and sometimes finds real treasures. a lot of children know it because so I use them to bread "So that's plantain, we can very well also on the curative side because we crush it a mosquito bite or nettles, we apply it "Here with a clover flower, we manage goat's cheese, and what's more it brings a little we also call it cumin meadows, it gives with fresh cheese from the square, decorated are now taking the road to Neuchatel, established Very close to its French neighbor, this city of Burgundian territory, before coming under Swiss Confederation in 1814. From this complex past, Neuchatel has preserved a its magnificent cloister date from the 12th century. The castle which dominates the city, seat of the converted into an art gallery. To the east, the Aar River surrounds joined the young Swiss Confederation in 1353, of the city can be seen on every street corner like the is undoubtedly the only European capital where let yourself be carried away by the cool currents of the Aare. invite you to take a dip. most daring will go swimming, the most cautious will listed as a UNESCO world heritage site. Another jewel of the canton of Bern, Gstaad is frequented by crowned heads and upper bourgeoisie. Lauenen, the southern district, has been well preserved. 16th century church, characteristic are finely decorated with friezes and coats of arms. Over time, Gstaadt has become a only horse-drawn sleighs hidden behind the palaces, a buried cellar cheese cave dug into an old most beautiful wheels of the region. Bernese Alpine cheese "The maturation time is a minimum of 18 months years, the cheese ages for 3 years. >> All around, the massifs are an eye-catcher for not necessarily everyone's priority. Vacationers and savor the specialties of the Oberland. Like every year in the canton of Valais, spectacular and completely unique carnival. The "Here it is Carnival Sunday in the the release of the stuffed animals, the stuffed animals are around thirty kilos and who will try winter who are responsible for diseases and allow spring to return. >> Surprising to the lay eye, this mountain carnival estimate the origin of these manifestations in During the Bronze Age, the Celtic peoples who intended to scare away evil encourage the arrival of spring. The masks are hand carved from old wizards, sometimes simple Grand Saint Bernard pass marks very close to the Italian-Swiss border. This several centuries saw in the year 1045 Saint Bernard "All winter long, it is frequented by people who or if the snow is hard enough on foot, and that uninterrupted mission for a thousand years to remain come . >> "The religious treasure of the church is only to the religious presence people who had their lives saved, in gratitude for their saved lives. , because a the Barry foundation breeds these famous "It is true that basically the Saint Bernard they had this role of protectors at rescuers when bad weather it quickly became complicated for the pilgrims and the dogs would naturally accompany them, really to maintain this breeding, to maintain the Swiss national animal. >> Let us now head towards the only one of the best known of which is Lugano, a between Lake Como and Lake Maggiore. The "Lago Maggiore", in Italian, flows between simple fishing village, the attractive under the influence of intellectuals based Ascona continues to welcome young researchers walks of life who illuminate music festivals. Like Lake Geneva, Lake Maggiore is one of the with a width of no more than 5. The history of the Brissago islands, which camp when a wealthy couple acquired it, sparse native vegetation only housed restored the monastery, the couple made the harvesting plants from all continents. cultural activity where all musicians and writers. In 1930, a rich merchant from There he transformed an old 17th his predecessors, he also strove to and added some personal touches by and a Roman bath. To the north of the lake, the town of Bellinzona is the Gotthard, Lukmanier, San Bernardino and numerous torments throughout its history. visitors can enjoy the 3 castles which heritage value has been recognized by UNESCO. The fortresses of Castelgrande, Montebello, and by a protective wall. Gaining height, we reach the of the rigor of life in the mountains. But it is cylindrical cheese with an intense taste, which disappeared in the cellar for 2 months. This is white wine with a little salt, I rub the cheese with this mixture, it it's very important for the taste. >> and that there are no traces of mold. >> West of Lake Maggiore, the Onsernone valley but also with rural villages like Berzona, working with straw. At the time of handicrafts, particularly hats, The Pagliarte association perpetuates this work make a range of varied products, from Florence. In the neighboring valley, the "Farina Bona", a teacher and miller, completely renovated it. ancient tradition that comes from here, from the grows with difficulty, so it doesn't make it edible . >> For the rest of the operations, "It is a very important operation, there fall at the same time to be sure this emblematic scene of a lake bordered by whose freshness of the summits, the warmth architectural and cultural heritage already invite us