- And when you vent the machine, whoa! (upbeat music) - They say an artist is And the same holds true for meal prep. Starting your week by of time can make your life easier. You'll save some money, you'll and you might even eat healthier. - Every year ATK sends out an annual survey asking about their kitchens. One thing we ask about is pain points. And this year we heard a ton Lisa and I are here to help with some of our favorite tips, tricks, and gear to get you a But first we have a book coming out! It's called Kitchen Gear, - The two of us have 30 years of combined experience and we've packed all of our favorite tips and - We give you our unbiased take on what's worth buying and what's not. Plus you'll find over a out the best in your gear. - Get your copy of &quot;Kitchen Gear: The Ultimate First up, Hannah. - One of my most effective or batch prep ingredients. Now I take some time on a Sunday, I use two of my favorite tools. I have a instant pot right here I do a bunch one right after and I don't wash them in between. And if you cut out this washing in between you are cutting down on your work overall. You might be saying, &quot;What are you talking about?&quot; I'll get to that later. But before I do, I wanna talk about these two pieces and why they're my best First of all, a sheet pan. You can do a million The way I like to use roast a bunch of things, Use those interchangeably Scrape off any debris in between. Put the next set of food right on. I like to go from cleanest to dirtiest. So for example, if I'm going in oil with salt and If I'm gonna roast some in all kinds of things, I'm gonna do that last 'cause that's the messiest So if you do it that way, you in between and just So this is our winning half We've talked before about eighth of a sheet pans. We love those too, but I really like this size, It's bigger, you can get a It has a really sturdy that keeps it nice and rigid. We also like the depth. These high sides give it just This is probably one of the busiest pans in our kitchen and it's Next up, multi-cookers. This is our winner from Now typically these machines promise to do a million different functions. When I meal prep with mine, because that is really going to save time, keeps all the flavors in, and it's super fast because it can actually cook at You can make a chicken stock in an hour versus six hours on the stove. So here's my typical lineup on So I might start with I love having hard cooked eggs on hand. You steam them on a steamer basket in an instant pot like this. Dump out the water, add fresh water, steam up a bunch of broccoli. Next I might throw in the takes another hour, dump that put the pot back in and If there's some residual into my rice, that's not a bad I haven't washed this pot once and I've made four different things. Multi-cooker can mean all in marketing speak by our really you have to be able We wanted a machine that This interface over The interior pot right here, handles, a nice flat contact that's gonna This pot, you can actually put this right on the stove top if you wanted to. So the one kind of scary thing about modern multi cookers that you do have to In pressure cooking, there are two ways to release the steam. One is right away as soon this is called quick release. You open it up right away. It's a big dramatic steam fest. The other is called turn the machine off but and it's going to gently come We do this for more delicate foods that you don't want to burst apart. It can actually help Whereas quick release can in the way that you don't You know, you wanna get and stop the cooking. And this usually does of steam coming out, but And so one step that the Instant Pot, our winner here, has added to instead of turning a tab which we usually got a wooden and you turn the tab you can just flick this You're not actually putting your hand on the thing that vents the steam. You can pressure cook well in a lot of machines This won our top spot for We also have a best buy by Crock-Pot that was pretty good as well. So these are my two and this will get you just a headstart on the week by reducing Another way I like to meal prep on a Sunday is to make a You can buy the stuff at the store, sure, but one, it's more expensive, and two, there's a lot of ingredients in those packaging that Now you can buy a dedicated We tested a bunch of them. This is our winner right here from Oxo. This one won fair and First of all, it's easy to clean. You'll notice it comes apart right here. So you can reach down A lot of the models we so you really couldn't clean It has these nice measurement markings right on the jar so you can build your recipe right in it it. These were really clear and Seals up nice and tightly but it's got this really grippy band around it so it's easy to open and close. So this little tab right and there's a gasket on here So you can really shake all combined and not worry about spraying salad which would really take away if you have to clean your Some of the other models so you had to baby them. You know, what's the point of a dedicated salad dressing Do you need a dedicated I don't really think so. This is a nice to have if But what I use most at home is a ball jar. And that's because, you know, I don't put plastic in my dishwasher so I really use a ton Now if you're familiar with you're probably used to These are necessary for canning. They're not that great for storage. First of all, you have to Second of all, they're prone to denting. Third of all, they're prone to rusting. These plastic top were They just screw on, they're one piece. They come in two different and they just make Ball jars also have the you can build whatever recipe The lid screws on really tightly so you can shake in here easily. Another beloved revelation in Chefs love these things and that's because they Now this is our winner right here. We tested a whole bunch of these. How can you mess a squeeze bottle up? But our winner here has that help make it that much easier to use. The biggest thing is it of the bottle instead of up And that allows you to This wider opening also You're not trying to aim Easier to fill, easier to clean. Another thing we liked here, this has a body made of It's nice and flexible so You can actually expel Some were too stiff, you know, if you can't squeeze a squeeze Now these are great for salad dressings. Like I said, you can It doesn't have measurement you can rough out ratios. But it does have this nice so you can put on just the And while I do use these in meal prep the primary way I use them of olive oil nearby my stove for cooking. You know, I keep my bulk so the light doesn't, you Now I just go pew and do of the exact amount I want. I'm not wasting oil, I'm not Those days are over. I'm in just just pure bliss Alright, those are some tips and tools. Here's Lisa with some of hers. (upbeat music) - So one of the key parts about doing meal prep store the food that you and that's where food We tested both plastic and I did this myself. We bought a whole bunch of plastic and glass, put them through every possible in a dishwasher and then These guys came out ahead, and they're really worth looking at. You're gonna notice a big difference if you invest in good These are our favorite glass They're by Oxo. We have not been sponsored by Oxo. They just did a really And these are our favorite They're by Rubbermaid, They are plastic, but they're BPA free. They're made of Triton, which is a very strong It's clear and it is safe in Triton, which is a hard chemically change when You may want both glass and plastic containers Glass is a great material to It doesn't alter the food at all. It doesn't react with the food at all. It will get very clean A lot of times plastic will pick up some different color and Glass by contrast really won't change. They do have plastic lids because you need some This Oxo container is made Now this is what Pyrex of back in the day. Now they're made of soda lime is less tough. Borosilicate is what they And it's much more resistant and thermal shock where you change from hot to cold or cold to hot suddenly. So where you've heard of things like glass this is much less likely to do that. Now it is still glass. You should not drop it but it's much more sturdy than your typical glass You can actually bake in this. You could either bake a quick bread or you could do mac and cheese. So you can bake all the portions and then you can freeze right in this. When it comes out of the freezer you can actually take and pop this thing in the oven to reheat. So even though this is borosilicate, you wanna read the warnings about how to use it from oven to freezer. Because what happens is on the temperature just shoots because it's trying to to whatever temperature you set. And that extreme temperature but it is safe to do if you and then you put this Probably one of the most important factors in any food storage it protect your food? And a lot of containers claim and that is not really always the case. We tested these by filling if anything would come out, These are really actually leak proof. They're also airtight. We put some crystals in that turn color when they detect moisture and we sealed them up and These did not allow any water in either. So let's talk about You know, these are really in every different size When you push down on them, you can hear a little There's a vent hole and that allows the air to come out and really seal and then they lock on. One of the things we did do is to figure out whether or not they were So I filled them all with and put them in a big The next afternoon I open them up and I drop them from chest not the glass ones 'cause we but all the plastic ones, and This one was fine, it didn't crack, it didn't become more brittle. I did wash these in the dishwasher but if you wanna wash 'em Both of these have gaskets which is this silicone band inside and that is what makes it And it is attached on one side. The other side you can get under to clean. And this is nice. It's nice and tight to the container. It doesn't get lost. We did an experiment where we put very strong smelling tuna packed left them overnight. The next day we put them and then we had people smell them to see if they could smell any fishy smells. And a lot of the other ones And these really got nice and clean. And so that was a good sign for us. With the Oxo, the little gasket You can get it completely out and wash it. And there's enough space, you can even get a fingertip in there. So you can get your sponge in there or your scrub brush to really wash that and to clean this really well. And then it's fairly simple and pop it back in. It's a little squishy so it gets right on the edge of that glass When it comes to meal prep, if you're just gonna buy one with the largest one because in that and serve from it over time. Glass is great, it's sustainable. It's, you know, does not react with food. It's usable, it's serving so it's really very versatile. On the other hand, if it is a little heavy. So unless you wanna do with your meal prepping, you Plastic is lighter, it's less fragile, especially this one which we up for you for a good long time. If you're gonna do meal prep and take it seriously and you want that food to have the best invest in some decent it's really worth it. Having a good kitchen and that's easy to use, It can speed up meal prep. You can use it to make sure that your portions are You can make sure that, if you're freezing a that they're all exactly four up so they'll all cook at the same rate. We tested a ton of scales This one is by Oxo and this This one's by Ozeri, it's our best buy. Both of these were highly accurate. We used calibrated weights and we put them on and made sure that when they read they were reading accurately Whether it was a very light they both will read up to 11 pounds. And that's a nice amount for cooking. And one of the things that we that their displays are nice and clear. They're very simple with very simple buttons We use a lot of different recipes. Sometimes they'll have ounces, And so you actually, or milliliters, you want to be able to switch without having to turn it and find the little tiny So the Oxo is our overall winner. It's very nice and easy to store. It's low and flat. This stainless steel top You don't wanna get the scale wet, you don't wanna mess up You wanna make sure that and then dry it and put it back on. And one of the things we love so much about this model is that you So if you're weighing a great and you can't see that it pulls right out. With the Ozeri, it's a it's a little less well It's a great little scale. And if you really are just for your baking or for your One thing to know about don't store anything on top of your scale. If you're storing heavy say you've got a bag of store it on top in that is something that experts told us will make the 'cause it's always kind it's a little pressed and it read accurately. So don't store anything on top on a shelf in my kitchen. I grab this thing several times a day. It is so handy. So with all the tips and and I both showed you, we will get much easier from here on out. For more information about about today, check out the links below or see americastestkitchen.com. - How do you meal prep? Let us know in the comments. We love talking about this stuff. Make sure to like this video too and hit that subscribe button (upbeat music)