Who are you? We are hygiene balls, scissors, axes, machetes, and hoes. Your grandparents, father, mother, sister, sister, brother, and brother are all my good friends. I will stab you directly with a knife. You are so powerful. You speak Japanese so well that even Japanese people are confused. Learn more. You know what talent is. Stop bragging. What kind of talent do you have? Stop talking nonsense and hurry up. Someone is attacking the power distribution room. How about coming with me? Okay. The battle has begun. The Japanese have discovered the speed truck and the amulet. Why haven't they arrived yet? How are they coming ? Everything goes well. Let's do it. I want to go to the molding room. What are you doing in the molding room? I promised the leaders of the Communist Party to help them get evidence that the Japanese printed counterfeit money. When is the count ? If you delay, go to Japan. The National People's Congress troops are coming. Wait for me in 5 minutes. If you don't blow up the banknote printing plant in 5 minutes, quickly evacuate the machine guns. They are going to attack. What should I do? Put explosives on the windows. You will understand what you are doing after a while. Go get the detonator. When you see the Japanese coming in, just detonate and rush out. Hey, you are stupid. There are two machine guns outside the door. As soon as the door opens, we will be killed immediately. What should we do? Our teammates cover and shoot the others. They are dead. Get the machine gun. What should we do now? There has been no movement in the first workshop. Count and the others should still be there to surround the power distribution room. Adjutant Oda, what should I do if it is the motorcycle of the patrol? Get on the motorcycle and chase the count. Why haven't you come yet? Five minutes have passed. Wait a minute . You guys go over there. We're going this way. We can't wait any longer . I beg you , wait one more minute. If you wait any longer, we won't be able to escape. All our efforts will be wasted. Now that we're here, Just come out. I've long expected you to come, so I'm waiting for you here, right? You're so smart. Who are you Chinese? The station where my special train stops is not Shanghai North Railway Station , right? You're smart, but it's too late. How did you deceive the special envoy's professional secret ? Arrest him. Yes, rush in, catch him, keep in formation, pick up the delivery people along the way , stop and beat, beat , beat them until they run out of bullets, and chase after them. Capture them alive and go. You should go. You run out of gas. It's over. Reinforcements are coming. Reinforcements are coming. Retreat . Hahaha. I love you so much. Where is the count? In the money printing workshop, I will lead the way. Follow me and keep the formation . Quickly , search every room and every corner carefully. Don't miss it. It 's the Major. It 's the security room. Go , shoot He's surrounded. Beat me hard. Beat him asshole. How can such a small environment with such a high density of personnel be possible? I'm sorry to drop the bomb , Major. Machine gunner, please call me. Stop shooting. Stop shooting. Major Yasuda , please open your eyes and look. Mr. Miyamoto led the guards to surround the molding area. And you are surrounded by us in the office. You have no place to run. Surrender quickly. Major Fujiwara, I'll bet you an ocean that you can't catch me, Major Yasuda. Your stupid self-confidence will only harm yourself. You have no chance. I can throw a silver dollar at your feet , and I can also throw a grenade at the same time. It 's a pity that you don't have a grenade. I didn't have one, but someone gave it to me. Someone is dead. It's not good. It's given to you. Get down , shoot, shoot, rush in . General , have you seen him? He's up there. Doctor, follow me. Come on, General Miyamoto saw him jump into this room with his own eyes. How could he disappear? I don't believe he can fly up to the sky and search for me . Listen, you guys are guarding me here. Go call Major Fujiwara, Major. What's wrong? We are in the supernatural. A corpse was found in the room. It looked very much like that of Major Yasuda. Yes, you go and take a look. Hum , I 'm sorry. Mr. Shao put the body down and unbuttoned it. Get out of the way . Who are you? Sanitary balls and work. Come on Bo Jun. Well, he said, go to the mastermind and get the counterfeit money template. Hurry up to the mastermind. Is there anyone else alive ? Who is it ? I don't think you ever dreamed that you would be killed by your own bullet . I won. General, there is no movement inside. Although I am very reluctant , I have to say that I am afraid that Fujiwara and his men were all killed in action. Who is this Major Anten? It is so scary. It is so scary. He is not a human being. He is a ghost. General, how should we retreat? Damn it, it's my Majesty Lieutenant General of the Imperial Japanese Army who was scared away by such a person. This is simply a joke. The joke is Your Excellency General. We sent people in. It's not dark. It's his incident. We stay here and wait for the reinforcements of Your Majesty the Special Envoy to arrive. What's the sound like? It's a motorcycle. It's our patrol. Don't form a random battle formation and retreat quickly. Otherwise, you won't be able to stop the general Are you okay, okay? I'm fine. I saved two groups of people , but I didn't see you. I'm almost dying. Are they okay? Are they okay? Get in the car, um, call the police. Oh, why are you sticking it so tight? Be careful to tear it off if it sticks to your face . I can't get off. I'm going to piss you off. You and Miss Wu are riding in this car. That 's fine. I don't want to sit with him . Stop talking nonsense . It's better for me to drive . You 're driving. Why are you so tight? Why aren't you afraid that it will stick and not be torn off? I'm willing to put my face on it. I will stick to you forever. Oh, how are you so ruthless ? We must still be friends at the critical moment. Get in the car. They must be hiding. Taijun, Director Li. Search. They will search carefully here. Is there anyone alive? Is anyone still alive ? Is there anyone alive? Is there anyone alive? Come on, come on, come on, come on, section chief, section chief is here, section chief, army commander, team is protecting White Rabbit, one hand is dying, firefighting , suppressing team, protecting Qin Dazhe , someone detonates bomb, shoots two Three, keep moving forward. Where is the big gun? Master, sir, fire. Click on the roof of the building opposite. The machine gunner is firing back at me. The chicken-eating mission is completed . The invincible retreat is here. How can we rise? Are you crazy? Do you really think you can beat the Marine Corps? Wait a minute. It's not enough for Japan to run around and put holes in people's teeth. Put away the gun quickly and use the power to catch up and kill him. Please sir, protect the emperor's body. Asshole, keep moving forward. Brother, sir, the other side has heavy weapons. Why are you bastards rushing in and destroying them? You cowards are all here. Didn't you hear, Chief Aoki, you can't stay in this wrong place for a long time , or it's more important to protect the gold. The Chinese are all cowards. Get in the car immediately and leave here. Hey, hurry up. Chief Aoki, you and Commander Zhongcheng protect the armored car and leave. I will lead the guards to chase the gangsters and stay here with machine guns. Quickly withdraw the protective armored vehicle and return to Jiangguan Customs. He, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he , he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, gets out of here, call me, Commander Zhui, for help, ah, how about shooting platinum, I checked a whole ton of gold, not a single piece is left , hahaha, that's great. If you get the chance, you will take advantage of others. Hahaha. Okay, everyone, start unloading the gold onto the truck immediately . Boss , let me accompany Section Chief Xiao Lin. You are pretty . Go is the devil. Brother Li Chuxiong , let us rescue you. Okay. Don't ask so many questions. Come with us. Come on, walk around, hurry up and get in this car. Who are you feeding? Hahaha. Our satellite ball picked up an ax, machete, and hoe for work. Your grandparents, father, mother, sister, sister, brother, and brother are all mine. My good friend, I have to take a knife to show you the work. This is yours. You speak Japanese so well that even the Japanese are confused. Learn more. You know what talent is. Don't brag about your talent. You will lose both man and money. Don't. Nonsense, hurry up and do it. The moon. The Japanese discovered the quick-walk card and turned it into a talisman. Why haven't they arrived yet ? Guys, how is everything going well? Let's do it. I want to go to the main city. What are you going to do in the main city? I promised the help of the Communist Party leaders. They got justice for the Japanese printing counterfeit banknotes . Count , when will they continue to do this ? The Japanese army will arrive in 5 minutes. If you don't blow up the banknote printing factory in 5 minutes, quickly evacuate the machine guns . What will they do if they attack? It's clear when you use explosives. Go get the detonator and fire it up. Someone go and detonate it as soon as possible. Love love you, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, rush out. Hey, you're stupid. There are two machine guns outside the door. As soon as the door opens, we will immediately reimburse it. What should we do if we bully a woman to cover the shooting? The capable man is dead. He has a gun. What should we do now ? There is no movement in the first workshop. Count, they should still be there to surround and compensate for the corpses . The adjutant is a patrol team's motorcycle. What should I do if I can't get on the motorcycle? Why hasn't the count arrived in 5 minutes? Just wait a minute , people, come over. I beg you, wait one more minute. If you wait any longer, we won't be able to escape , and all our efforts will be wasted. Now that you're here, come out. I've long expected you to come, so I'll wait for you here, okay ? You are so smart . Who are you Chinese?