- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Andy Galpin. Dr. Galpin is a full and tenured professor in the department of kinesiology at California State He is also a world expert in all things exercise Today, you are going to a masterclass in how to build fitness, no matter what level of He talks about how to build endurance, and the multiple types of endurance. He talks about how to build which is the growth of muscle fibers. So if you're seeking to get stronger, or build bigger muscles, or all of those things, today You're also going to learn how to hydrate properly for exercise. And we'll also talk about What makes Dr. Galpin so unique is his ability to span all He has the ability to clearly communicate the sets and repetition schemes for instance, to build more strength or to build larger muscles. He also clearly describes if you want to build more endurance, or enhance cardiovascular function. What's highly unique about Dr. Galpin and the information he teaches, and the way he communicates is that he can take of how recreational exercisers, or even professional for their specific goals, and link that to specific mechanisms. That is the specific in the nervous system and indeed right down to the in your brain and body, in order for those exercise It's truly rare to find so many different levels of analyses, and who is able to communicate all those levels of understanding in such a clear and actionable way. Indeed, Dr. Galpin is one to which I and many others look when they want to make sure that the information that is gleaned from quality hands-on experience with a wide variety of research subjects, meaning everyday people all the way up to professional athletes in a wide variety of sports. So it's no surprise that he's not only one of the most knowledgeable, but also the most trusted Dr. Galpin is also an avid communicator of zero cost to consumer You can find him on and also on Twitter at Dr. Andy Galpin. Both places he provides about recent studies, both from his laboratory more in depth protocols of the sort that you'll hear about today. So if you're not already He provides only the best information. He's extremely nuanced in delivering that information. I'm certain that by the end you'll come away with a that you can devote to I'm pleased to announce that I'm hosting two live events this May. The first live event will be on May 17th. The second live event will on May 18th. Both are part of a lecture series entitled &quot;The Brain Body Contract&quot;, during which I will discuss for mental health, physical I should point out that while some of the material I'll cover will overlap with information covered here on the &quot;Huberman Lab Podcast&quot;, and on various social media posts, most of the information I will from information covered on So once again, it's Seattle on May 17th, Portland on May 18th. You can access tickets by And I hope to see you there. Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science-related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still once or twice a day, is that it helps me cover all It makes up for any In addition, it has probiotics which are vital for microbiome health. I've done a couple of episodes now on the so-called gut microbiome and the ways in which with your immune system, with and essentially with relevant to health throughout With Athletic Greens, I the minerals I need, and the probiotics to support my microbiome. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman, and claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs, which make it easy to while you're on the road, plus a year's supply of vitamin D3 K2. There are a ton of data now showing that vitamin D3 is essential for various aspects of Even if we're getting a lot of sunshine, many of us are still And K2 is also important cardiovascular function, Again, go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim the special offer and the year's supply of vitamin D3 K2. Today's episode is also Thesis makes what are called nootropics, which means smart drugs. Now, to be honest, I am not I don't believe in smart drugs in the sense that I don't believe that there's any one substance that can make us smarter. I do believe, based on science however, that there are particular neural circuits and brain functions that more alert, access creativity, That's just the way that the brain works. Different neural circuits And so the idea of a nootropic smarter all around, fails to acknowledge that If you're an artist, you're a you're doing accounting, a different part of the day these are all different brain processes. Thesis understands this. And as far as I know, they're to create targeted nootropics They only use the highest which of course is essential. Some of those I've talked things like DHA, Ginko They give you the ability to over the course of a month, discover which nootropics work best for your unique brain chemistry and with that personalization, that's ideal for the different you want to access. I've been using Thesis for and I can confidently have been a total game-changer. My go-to formula is the clarity formula, or sometimes I'll use their To get your own personalized go online to takethesis.com/huberman, take a three minute quiz, and Thesis will send you to try in your first month. That's takethesis.com/huberman, and use the code Huberman at checkout for 10% off your first order. Today's episode is also brought Inside Tracker is a that analyzes data from to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done, for the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be assessed with What's unique about Inside Tracker is that while there are a lot of for hormones and metabolic with Inside Tracker, you get the numbers back but they also give you in terms of lifestyle, that can help you bring that are best for you And that's very different than where you get a lot of information, but you don't really know what Inside Tracker makes that and very actionable, based on at Inside Tracker. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can visit insidetracker.com/huberman, to get 20% off any of Just use the code Huberman at checkout. And now for my discussion Welcome Dr. Professor Andy Galpin. It's been a long time coming. We have friends in common, but this is actually the face-to-face. - Yeah, I'm very excited. - Yeah, there are only a handful, meaning about three or four people, who I trust enough in the that when they speak, I not only listen, but I modify my protocols, and you are among those So first of all, a debt You've greatly shaped And I know there's far more So you're a professor, and you have a tremendous Muscle biopsy, literally all the way to training and everything in between. So you are truly an N-of-1. And just to start us off, I would love to have you share with us what you think most everybody, or even everybody should know, about principles of strength training, principles of endurance let's call it hypertrophy power and the other sort of And this could be very top contour. But what do you think everybody about these categories of - Well, that's a great first question. Holy cow! I think I'll start it this way. I tend to think about, there's about nine different adaptations you can get from exercise. Fat loss is not one of those. It is a byproduct. But that's not really what I'm getting at. And so we can kind of And what we're going or what are the concepts within each one. And then you could have of the different methodologies, right? And so that first thing to hit is the concepts are actually fairly few, but the methods are many, right? People have said that in So if you walk from the very beginning, the first one to think about So this is improving anything to a squatting technique, to running. And this is just simply how you want your body to move. I'm just going to From there, we're going to get into speed. So this is moving as fast as possible. The next one is power, and but it is also a function of the next one, which is strength. So if you actually you get power. And the reason I'm making this some of these are very close, and I'm going in a specific For example, power is, like I just said, it's a function of speed and strength. So if you improve speed, you've But not necessarily, right, 'cause it could've come from So there's carryover, so like a lot of things that you would do for the development of strength and power, they are somewhat similar, but then there's differences, right? So things that you would would really not develop much So we can get into all Once you get past strength, and the next one kind of this is muscle size, right? Growing muscle mass is After hypertrophy, you get the next one is, these are all globally And the very first one is So this is your ability to do in one minute? You know, things like that. Past muscular endurance, you're now into more of an energetic or even cardiovascular fatigue. So you've left the local muscle, and you're now into the and its ability to And we can get into a with an endurance, but just to keep it the very first one, think about this as, I call this anaerobic power, right? So this is your ability for say 30 seconds to maybe one minute, kind of two minutes like that. The next one down then to what we'll call your VO2 max. So this is your ability to but more of a time domain So this is going to be but it's going to be well Then after that we have what I So this is your ability to sustain work. The time domain doesn't matter in terms of how fast you're going. It's how long can you sustain work? This is 30 plus minutes of no break. Like that. So as just an high level overview, those are the different And again, some of those crossover, and some are actually to the other ones. So pushing towards one is maybe going to So as an overall start, that's Within all those though, they in terms of there is a handful to make all of those things work. And we could talk about as but one of them is functionally So whichever one you're if you want to continue to improve, you have to have some method of overload. And as you well know, and adaptation, physiologically, happens as a byproduct of stress. So you have to push a system. So if you continue to do over time, you better not You can keep maintenance, but you're not going to be So in general, you have progressive overload, about what that means for each category. But this could come from This could come from It could come from doing It could come from adding So going from say a to a full range of motion, So there's a lot of But you have to have some So if you have this kind of routine where you've built Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday or something, and you're not going to get very far. So that's, I guess the of all the things people can go after, and then we can go from whatever direction you want from there. - Well I'd love to do the - Yeah man. But, and I imagine that I'd love to chat about a couple of these in a bit more depth. So in terms of defining what the progressive - Yeah. different categories, maybe we could hit the two of these nine things. The first one being - Yeah. lump power in there. Maybe not. You're the exercise physiologist. - But strength and hypertrophy, which at least bears some relationship. And then maybe separately we could explore sustained work endurance. This 30 minutes or longer continuously, 'cause I think many people And probably something like because I know that a number so-called HIIT or high I think with the hopes of - Yeah. gaining some additional So if we could start with I know many people want to be stronger. They want to grow larger muscles, or at least maintain what they have. So what are the progressive that are most effective over time for strength and hypertrophy? - Yeah, okay. So I'll actually go a little step back. With every one of those you have what we call So this is a very short list of all the things you can modify, the different variables that can be modified, that A fancy way of saying, if then you're going to So modifiable variables. The very first one of So this is the exercise Now one of, I'm going so I'm kind of doing a So follow me here as I'm going up a layer to come down a couple layers. I have these fundamental laws that, they're kind of like But progressive overload's Another one of those laws do not determine adaptations. So here's what I mean. If you're like I want to get stronger, you can't select an exercise. That doesn't determine you getting strong. If you don't do the exercise correctly, and I'm not even referring That of course matters. But if you don't execute then you're not going So if you choose I want to get stronger, I'm going to do a bench press. Well, if you do the wrong set range, the wrong repetition you won't get strength, you and very little strength adaptation. So the exercise selection but it does not determine So the very first thing if you're like I want to is not the exercise choice, right? It is the application of the exercise. What are the sets, what are the reps, what are the rest ranges That's going to be your Now some exercises are certainly better for some adaptations. For example, a deadlift is to do for long duration endurance. Like you could theoretically do 30 straight minutes of dead-lifting, but it's probably not It's probably a pretty good choice for strength development, right, 'cause you're going to do a You could theoretically but probably not your best choice, right? Single joint isolation for developing power. If you've ever done a bicep curl as fast as you possibly can, So in theory, any exercise given the execution is performed properly. So now that we've understood the exercise itself does not Coming within each one exercise choice is an important variable because it does lend you to things like what movement pattern you're in. So in other words, if and you're thinking, okay, you need to think a little bit about what muscle groups do I want to use, and that's going to be leading For example, I want to use my quads more. Okay, fine. Maybe you're going to type of variation, a goblet squat, so the bar, the load is in front of you. If you want to emphasize maybe more of your hamstrings and glutes, you're going to maybe put or do a different one. So the exercise choice is because it's going to determine Okay, another kind of simpler If you're a beginner, or or maybe you don't have a coach, you probably want to hedge that is a little bit easier technically. So you maybe don't want to It's actually a pretty Maybe you want to do a a goblet squat, or even use something that's a little bit simpler because you don't have a coach, you're not a professional athlete. The likelihood of success is higher, and the risk is now gone lower. So the very first variable is the exercise choice. The second one is the in this context, not perceived effort, like, wow, that was a It is quite literally either a percentage of your one rep at max, or a percentage of your So for the strength-based things, you want to think about of the maximum weight and that's what we're Or it's a percentage of So if I tell you to get on a bike and I want you to do intervals, I'm typically referring to or VO2 max, or something like that. If I tell you to do squats at 75%, that means 75% of the you could lift one time, or close. - In terms of determining one rep max, I confess I've never actually for any exercise. But I have some internal sense of what that might be or Is it necessary for people to assess their one repetition maximum, before going into these sorts of programs? - No, not at all. I think a more intuitive way Well, you can do this a So there are equations you can run, and you can just Google these anywhere, and these are called conversion charts. And so it says okay, if I did and I did it eight times, you can just run an estimate to say, okay, you're probably going to be able to bench about 95 pounds for one So that's a very easy conversion chart. So just pick a load that but it's kind of heavy and do as many repetitions as you can with a really good technique. And then look what that number would be. So conversion charts. one repetition maximum. - For the general public who has, again, no coaching, it's safer. For a professional athlete, or not even a professional athlete, but a trained person with a coach. But for most people, yeah, You can also just kind of do it with feel, in the sense that say you want to do a set of five repetitions, and you think I could've And then you kind of have an idea of what that number's going to be. If you think, man, that really, really, really get after it, then maybe just call So you don't have to get overly concerned. In fact, when we start getting you're going to see We're not going to give a specific 95%, for one of these exact reasons. It's not that precise for most of 'em. In fact, some of 'em like hypertrophy have enormous ranges that So the intensity in that case doesn't even matter for the most part, because that's not the Some of these you're going to and some of these you're is the true determinant. So intensity though is that second one, choice was the very first Intensity was the second one. The third one is what we call volume. And so this is just how many reps and how many sets are you doing, right? So if you're going to do three sets of 10, that volume would be 30, right? Five sets of five, that volume is 25. It's just a simple equation. How much work are you totally doing? The next one past that So this is the amount in between typically a set. Then from there, you have progression, which is what we started to talk about, this progressive overload, are you increasing by weight, or reps, or rest intervals, or So all of those things can be changed as a method of progression. And so maybe you want to go progressing from a single joint exercise, like a leg extension on a machine, and you want to progress by moving to a whole body That in of itself, you don't have to change the That is a representation And it's probably a pretty because number one, you want to make sure that the Don't worry about intensity. Don't worry about rep ranges You need to learn to move correctly, and you need to give your some tissue tolerance. So that you're not getting overtly sore. In general, soreness is a terrible proxy for exercise quality. It's a really bad way to estimate whether it was a good or a bad workout, especially for people in that beginner to middle to moderate. In fact, even for our we do not use soreness as It's a really bad idea On the same token, because stress is required for adaptation, you don't want to leave I didn't really do much. There has to be there. So if you think about soreness you probably want to in like the three. - You mean post-exercise? - Yeah. - [Andy] Totally. - And I know we'll talk about but if one body part or is that an indication that one I would imagine the answer is no. - Right. And secondarily to that, if does that mean that muscle is - Yeah, the answer to both Right? You can certainly train a sore muscle. You need to, I guess, have a little bit of feel on that, right? So if you're sore of like, okay, and you're moving around a this is a little bit sore, you can train. If you're like, I can't sit because my glutes are so sore, like we probably don't - Does whimpering count as crying? - Yeah, in that particular case I'd say you've actually gone to because now you're going to And now you're behind, so your actual total is actually going to be lower because you went way too had to take too many days off in between. You're going to see that you're over the course of a month, So you want to walk a pretty fine line, and for most people I would on the side of less sore than more so. Because frequency is very, very important for almost all these adaptations. - Training frequency. - Which is the last Frequency. Which is how many times per So those are, kind of are global things that we can play with. So when I'm trying to manipulate, and you can get strength or, you know, I want like all those variables are the things that are going through my mind. Which one do I need to so that I can get this outcome and not this outcome over here? For example, some folks but not put muscle mass on. Some folks just kind of want both. And that's a lot of the general public. I want to get a little stronger Great. But there are instances where people, for performance reasons or for like I don't want to get but I want to get stronger. Awesome. If you manipulate those you can get exactly that. Very little development of muscle size, and a lot of development in strength. And this is why we continue to like power lifting and weightlifting, that have weight classes. So there's a top number that we can hit in terms of body size, but yet we continue to So this is very possible, if you understand how to So that being said, we can start off with, you wanted to go strength and- - Yeah strength, and I love it is possible to increase strength without increasing muscle size, because think it's not I know a lot of people they'd like to be stronger, they're hearing that having strong bones and strong muscles and tendons, it's great for longevity and so many other features of life. And yet they don't want to fill out progressively larger and - And we can go harder to if you want, or we can save - Sure. What I'd love to, both, if we could define some of - Yeah. So let's say I- - Oh okay, yes. I come to you and I say, and let's just say for 'cause she actually does I bring my sister in, and I say, me and my sister What modifiable variables should, how should we modify the variables? - Love it, all right, great. I'm going to do inception So one of my other laws, this of strength and the default is all joints So this is important your very first question So in general, the ankle should go through the full range of motion in the ankle. The knee should go through in the knee. The hip, the elbow, et - Across the workout, - Well, right. - I would hope. Unless there's an amazing - Well there are some exercises more full body. Think about a full snatch. Like you're going to take a lot of your joints through Other ones like in isolation, we call these single joint exercises. So imagine a bicep curl. You have one joint in the elbow moving. The shoulder and everything And this is how we'll differentiate multi-joint from single joint movements. But yeah, so across, I would even say it doesn't but maybe throughout the week, try to get every joint Now, a couple of quick caveats to that. I am not advocating using and allowing really So when I say full range of That doesn't mean every for every single exercise. It means that's where we and that's our starting point. You're going to see a lot less injury and a lot more productivity In fact, the science is Strength development is generally enhanced with a larger range of motion of training. And the mechanisms are like So that being said, if you have to get into say a bad position with your say lower back, In general, the spine should stay, it's very neutral is what we call it. So no flexion, no extension, especially in the lumbar region. So if you're doing a, say a deadlift, and in order to take your knee through a full range of motion or deadlift, you have to compromise your back position, that's no [speaking in foreign language]. So, caveats there aside, don't kill me, like in good positions always. - Yes. - So why that matters is if the very first thing is the exercise selection. So let's choose an a full range of motion or close to it, that doesn't induce injury for you, that you can still maintain and position and everything else. You feel comfortable with, but you don't feel like, oh my gosh, if you've never snatched before, having you do a snatch like it's a terrible idea. You're not going to feel confident, it's going to be a train wreck. I would rather put you so you can go I feel and I could just express my strength. So exercise choice in and you want to kind of balance So this is an upper body press, so this is pushing away from you. Bench press, things like that. Upper body pull, pulling Bent row, pull up. The pressing should be horizontal. So perpendicular to your So this is lifting a weight lifting a weight away from you. The pull version is and pulling vertically down. Pull up, things like that. From the lower body, we It's sort of a funny muscle thing that no one's going to laugh at, but like maybe me and you here, is we'll categorize muscles as pushes and pulls, right? So like a squat tends to be a push, 'cause you're pushing away the ground. A deadlift is a pull, 'cause you're pulling But in reality, every single 'cause muscle doesn't push things away, muscle can only contract And so again, super nerdy thing that like most people are like, yeah, and everyone's like, that's so dumb. - No, but I think it's because it also speaks to something I think we'll get into later, posterior chain, anterior chain. - [Andy] Totally. - And if that's mysterious to people, it'll become clear before long. Posterior chain, anterior chain, because of the way it's grounded in the firing of motor neurons, which is ultimately what controls muscle. So it's also I think- all the time. - Exactly, so it also depends looks at life and exercise. Of course my lens is But I realized that the of pushing perpendicular pulling both toward the That just makes really especially since a lot of people and not watching it. So in your minds, folks, you like a punch or overhead, like and then pulling toward your midline or towards your body rather, and then pulling yourself up for those of. - That experienced- the same thing, right? It's some sort of pushing away like a squat, or a or something like that. And then some sort of, again, So a deadlift or Romanian or something where you're And you could split these into like a thousand different categories. If you're really in that field, you're going to want to But that's just like a rough conception, so if you're going to do a single workout, you could choose four exercises, and you could choose one of each. One press, upper body one lower body hinge, And then that would be like a decently well-rounded exercise. That's your exercise selection. And if you're taking those you're at a pretty good spot. As close as you can. The next one is intensity. So if you want to develop strength, this comes back to one of all time who happens to And generally, I like to shit on nerves as much as I possibly can, But I have to give Henneman And I know you know who that is. - Henneman size principle. - Yeah, of course, right? So this is a series of I think it was in nature. - At least some of them, yeah. - Yeah, in 1954, '56, or like something. You can fact check me, I'm sure you will. But he basically outlined there's a certain for neurons to fire. And we have muscle fast twitch muscle fibers and And in general, you're going to activate because they tend to be associated with low threshold motor neurons. It's not exactly that way, Well, the only way that you activate some of these higher threshold neurons is to demand the muscle and it's fairly specific to force, right? It's not something you can do over an endurance thing, right, unless it gets really So in general, the only way to use these big chunks of your muscle, which are incredibly important one of the major problems we or development of aging-related is the fact that we lose fast And then we have major problems because we've lost a big So you want to make sure these Okay, so if that being said, the only way to develop strength is then to challenge the muscle If you are fairly untrained or new, I guess I should have stated this all at the beginning as well, one more inception then I'll stop. When it comes to this level of detail of exercise prescription, a fairly untrained person basically the same to In fact, we've done this we've done training 30 minutes of cycling, and seen huge increases in which is not a prescription to increase size, but people if you did plyometrics or endurance running, they all just get better at everything. So that caveat kind of aside, if you want to be more to the goal of strength, you Specificity matters, right? So we have size principle And we have our laws of specificity which say SAID principle, right? Specific adaptation to imposed demand. So the adaptation you get, or is going to be a reflection of So if you want to get stronger, you need to impose a demand So this has to be, the In general, you're probably looking at above 85% of your one rep at max. If you're moderately Lowly trained, again, everything works. But in general, we want that's very high. So because the intensity that is going to force you You can't do 12 reps at 95%. Then it wouldn't be 95% So by definition, true strength training is five repetitions per set or less range. That's where most of it's going to occur. With specificity. So we've covered choice, The total amount of sets that you do is really kind of up to your If you did as little as like that's probably enough. - Work sets. - Totally, yeah, totally work sets, right. So get fully warmed up Don't just walk into and go thank you, that's So work your way up. Do some, like a very classic like a set of 10 at 50%. A set of eight at 60%. A set of maybe eight again at 70%. And then maybe like a set of five at 75%. So two or three or four sets and lowering rep range. And then you would go after Also, in terms of rest intervals, now, because we're trying to, the primary driver of It's not the volume, So in order to maintain that we have to do a low repetition range. But in addition, we also have Because if we start to, if we have any amount of fatiguing occur, and we have to then either reduce the reps or reduce the intensity, We've lost that main signal. So the number we're going is like two to four minutes. So imagine you did your set of bench press and you did five repetitions at 85%. You probably want to before coming back to the bench. That doesn't mean you have In fact, please don't. Everyone will thank you for You can engage other muscle groups. This is what we would call super setting. So you're doing your bench press, and while that two minute clock to rest, you can go over And so you can kind of and this is how you can not a seven hour workout. If you're a professional athlete, you're going to take that time, because you want to maximize the outcome. We've done this actually in our lab too, super sets will reduce the strength gains, but by a tiny amount, and relative to it's going of your training session. It's not worth it. So for the average person I For someone who's trying in weightlifting or power - Interesting. Yeah, I think, I've found particularly well from strength So- - Like in the workout or the next day? - From workout to workout, unless I keep the total I like to say no more than 60 - Yep, yep. - Maybe 75. Past 75. I find that I just start to- - [Andy] That's a lot. - I have to introduce or I just get weaker over time. So I'd set a kind of a limit at 50 minutes and then I usually violate that limit and end up doing 60 minutes. So I'm excited to hear that as long as they work different - Yeah. So I wouldn't want to do like super set it, 'cause you're going to weaken- - I think that goes without but just to point that out. But that I could do some without compromising And I certainly would a rep here or there, or a And may I ask whether one gets any even tiny bit, in terms of cardiovascular work? Because I imagine after a, even a one rep max which I've but let's say I get three and then I get four reps and I'm going back and forth. I'm no doubt going to be breathing harder than if I was sitting there - Yeah. - Yep, of course. Yeah, and so in fact in general, one of the things that is a giant list of, in fact on the top is all these different I started the conversation with. And on the vertical physiological potential So changes in endogenous pH. Blood pressure. Lymphatic changes. Bone density. All these things, right, and And then you can run a matrix okay, if I do speed training, am I going to see changes Well, like very much so, right? That's the primary, actual Very little change in the muscle system. It's almost exclusively explained by the central or peripheral On that same token, many cardiovascular adaptation from speed? And the answer is no, because speed is very low intensity, very high rest. Well, as you go to like strength and then you go to hypertrophy, you start seeing more and more increases in cardiovascular adaptations because you're doing exactly that, right? You're starting to reduce rest, and you're starting to increase volume. But you're going to lose things because the load starts to go down. So you can look at this if I'm a person who wants to kind of maximize the adaptations I get for the least amount of work, you can choose these different that are going to kind of And exactly as you mentioned, if you're going to take five So let's say the extreme, you're going to do three sets at 95%, you're going maybe seven minutes between each attempt. Like you better not in your resting blood pressure. That there's no You're going to put it where you're going to lose some but you're going to gain something there. So all these things are, it's not about good or It's always about what and what disadvantage do you want? And I can cut like really on one of these things, 'cause If you want to know the generally give you the most across the most categories, you're almost always looking for hypertrophy type of training. And then this anaerobic conditioning piece that we'll get into. That's going to hit the - That's great to know, and we should definitely on those types of what the for those categories. 'Cause I think that, I'm guessing the vast majority of people want to be a bit stronger, maybe add some, a little bit of muscle, or more, make sure their heart is This is wonderful, and certainly a lot for me. So for strength, let's, I - Frequency, cool. training frequency? And I had the great when I was in high school actually, I paid for a session over - Oh, lovely! - Sure. over time. - At the time I was pretty like, why is this like And then we would talk all but he tried to convince me to train once every five to seven very high intensity. And I must say, it worked incredibly well. - Sure. I think with my recovery I think has improved over it was remarkable. But of course this was a - Full of the most animalism - I was 14. - On my own version of anabolics, right. I had a long arc of puberty, so. - And you were untrained. - And I was mostly untrained. I'd been running cross and playing soccer. So. - And doing all the things that are like the antithesis of growing muscle. - Yeah, it was literally, and people would probably say impossible. It was something like 40 pounds of muscle inside of 12 months. It was crazy. - [Andy] I would believe that. - And so, then of course that - Sure. going down the odyssey of that's going to work that well. And you eventually realize that it was because you were untrained, right? So training frequency is crucial. Let's say that people are as you've described them, not alternating upper body, lower body, 'cause there's so many probably doesn't make sense But how often can and And how do you know if a And how do you know if your nervous system is - Okay, this is a bunch of I'm not sure exactly what so I'll start here. As I mentioned earlier, of exercise quality, because are going to induce more soreness and some are going to induce less. That's important to this when you ask about how do you know if a muscle is ready to train again, one of the question is, well If you're training for hypertrophy, right, muscle size, muscle growth, we need to hedge towards recovery. Because what you're trying to do is cause a massive insult there, allow then protein synthesis to occur, building of new tissue which like kind of at a minimum, If you're doing actually more strength, and this is a differentiation between hypertrophy and strength, then you didn't induce In fact, you're generally from true strength training. Very little, unless you get The primary driver of hypertrophy is not the same primary We talked about that already. That's intensity driven. For hypertrophy it's not intensity. So because we have different mechanisms, we have different outcomes, even though they're closely aligned, strength is not going to Therefore intensity is the driver. Therefore frequency can So you can train every single if speed or power or strength are the primary training tools, because you need stimulus, Practice. You know that as much as anybody. Developing a new motor pattern requires a lot of repetitions, right? You don't need a That's not, it's not it's a re-patterning issue. So strength training, in true strength professional athletes, they're going to train the same - Wow. - [Andy] They're going to squat every day. - And is that because the is recruitment of these So it's mainly neural. - No. So everyone's going to say that. And this is where I get all feisty. - Well, I'm not saying that. That was actually, there - [Andy] Okay, okay. - If we were online putting comments, there'd be a question mark. - We would've fought. I would've blocked you. I'm just kidding. - You already blocked me. No. Okay. The early adaptations to exercise, especially strength training, are hedged towards the nervous system. No question about it. People always say central nervous system, but it's probably more peripheral, right? Whatever, semantics It's nerve, if you train today, tomorrow morning you're with a actually increase in Your muscle might be a little bit bigger due to some acute swelling, but you could have a change in the nervous that allows you to be stronger, like within a couple of days. Sustained hypertrophy is probably more along the lines of four weeks. We can see that right? We can actually see changes Now you're making changes immediately, that protein synthesis process and it's going to last. It just takes us time to a noticeable change in So that being said, the first are primarily nervous system. After that, now we're starting coming from the muscle So with strength development, it's a combination of three areas. In fact, all muscle contraction It starts off with some signal, right, from somewhere in the body, whether it's all the way up the top or at the level of the spine, depending on if this is a reaction or an actual conscious control. From there, some signal has to Okay. So signal is one. Two it's muscular contraction. And there's a lot of variables inside the muscle tissue itself that determine its functionality. And so if we took an individual biopsy and took a muscle fiber from and we took those muscles out and I tied one end to a force transducer and the other end to and we soaked it in a bath of calcium and a bunch of other stuff, your fibers might contract even relative to size. Or not, or slower, or So the intrinsic fibers themselves determine a lot of functionality. From there, muscle fibers Muscle fibers simply contract. They're all surrounded And that's all surrounded with a bunch of more connective tissue. That all surrounds into a muscle. That muscle is then surrounded That all comes together That tendon attaches to the bone. It's the pulling on those tendon that cause human movement. So that's area three. Area one, the nervous system, area two, the muscle contraction, area three, some sort of Changes happen at all And we're not even now talking, when you entered the and you changed say the which is the angle at lay relative to the bone, right? So this is basic mechanics. Is it pulling perpendicular to the bone? Is it pulling horizontal to the All of these things So when you're talking about again, that strength development, you can see tremendous improvements in total force production by manipulating all of those areas, and you have not touched If you change muscle size whether this is sarcoplasmic you have given yourself more opportunity to produce more force. It doesn't guarantee Bodybuilders are not even though they have more muscle. But bodybuilders are probably So there is a relationship It's just not a one-to-one And that's generally because the, although the muscle has been aided, they may have not changed the They may have not changed nor the nervous system stuff. And so that's why we see that our value is pretty high between strength and hypertrophy, but if you really want to get And that matters to your because again, you can on the same muscle, but if you want to allow contractile proteins to add and grow, then you're going to have Because if you go back you're going to blunt the response. You're going to stop it. You're going to cut it off. You have all kinds of that are going to just So I gave you the answer The answer for hypertrophy three out of 10, on level of In general, you're probably is the optimal window. So if you trained your you probably don't want to If hypertrophy's the goal. Maybe Wednesday, maybe Thursday's best. So something like an every is probably, and we know about why that is. The gene cascade, the well the signaling right, within seconds. The gene cascade is probably in the, peaked in the four hour window, like depending on which But it's just kind of a snapshot. But the protein synthesis and so it tends to kind of and let that signal go back to baseline, and then hit it again. And then hit it again. And now as long as you're the recovery should happen and the same work output in So the stimulus stays high and you can now continue to grow muscle. - You mentioned 48 to 72 What if, for whatever reasons, the training split, somebody say, let's use your example, trains shoulders on Monday, ideally they would train in their particular instance. Wednesday or Thursday. But they don't. They wait until Saturday or Maybe it's more compatible with their work and other exercise schedule. Whatever the reason. Are they actually losing or they've missed a window to - It's probably better to It's not that you've lost, it's just, you've just kind of lost an opportunity to make more progress. I will save you a little bit, kind of going back to your HIIT program. This is the original the Mentzer thing, right? Which is not. - The HIT with one I not the high intensity interval training, but high intensity training. - Correct. to absolute failure. - Totally. For each muscle group. - 20 minute workouts. - [Andrew] Dividing your and then literally training like - Smashing. Which most people think - Yeah. that's going to work. And I can tell you this. - It does. you grow like a weed. If you train hard enough. - Even if you're trained, look He put a lot of bodybuilders Now they had the same similar help you had at that timeframe. - Wait, to be very clear, I was not taking exogenous anabolics. In fact I- - But your endogenous was just as good. - It probably was. I wasn't measuring my levels I grew easy and, in general, I tend to grow pretty And I should say that, to Mike's credit, and I think this is an important message, that he was the one who really said look, unless you're going to make a do not run the health hazards And certainly not at your age. So he deterred me from that, which was great because It just was one of those things where Mike Mentzer said don't do it. And he had clearly done it, right? And so he's speaking It never entered my mind. But also what was really wild is I was continuing to run cross country. And so there was a trade-off - A bit of an interference. you can get, many people - Totally. would surely place me into a state of over-training, We'll see. the whole field on interference effect has changed quite a bit recently, which we could come back to if you want. But just to finish out the idea here with that last question. If you want to take five days or six days in between each muscle In fact, if you look at the research, it's going to show that It's not that it's unimportant, as long as you get to So you can do that. You just have to do a lot If you care about the six if you're like I'm in this like it's probably okay, right? But it can be there, the your training sessions for like once or twice a week, it's just difficult to get that number. It's difficult to get that volume done. Volume-wise, the more recent that you're probably looking per muscle group per week. Seems to be kind of the minimum threshold that you're going to want to hit. So if you did three sets of 10 three sets of 10 shoulders that's nine working sets. If you wanted to do three on Monday and hit your nine sets, it's not really actually going The problem is 10 is kind of the minimum. You probably want to look and in fact, well-trained folks, 20, 25. That becomes very In fact de functo, you're not And so that is where, it's not the frequency that it's just the fact you have got to get, because the total driver but the total driver of Assume you're taking it to fatigue, right, or muscular failure. So it's just tough to get enough done. If you can, and if you want to like you probably remember, if you do those types of training sessions where you're just going to it's going to be sore for a while. You're probably not going to come back, and that's sort of the let's take this thing and give it six days to recover. It can work, it's just not the best, I think is one way to think about it. For most people. - It's also hard to do those workouts without a training partner, if you really want to do them correctly. - And stimulants and headphones and all kinds of other things, right? - Well, anyway, yeah stimulants are not, I certainly don't recommend those. It may be a cup of coffee or and maybe some of the safer supplements, but certainly not the sorts of stimulants that the guys in the '70s and '80s were famous for taking. - Or still use. You talked about repetition ranges, broadly for strength You said frequency could Rest two to four minutes, if you're going for - Yep. - [Andrew] For hypertrophy. - Sure. - What are the repetition and what are the ones if one is trying to maximize Like people don't want to to 75 minutes - in the gym. Because I think that while the rep ranges might be quite broad, as there's the practical, there - [Andy] Yeah. - So what repetition ranges or percent of one repetition maximum when thinking about hypertrophy? - Right. The quick answer there is anywhere between like That's going to show across the literature pretty much equal hypertrophy gains. And we can have a really about why that is. But I'm just remembering I want to give a better You can do every single week for strength, or every single day for strength. If you want though like what's probably twice per week per muscle. So hamstrings strength, twice per week. That's a good number to get - Okay. You don't need to though. So I want to make sure that, like I wasn't saying you 85% every single day to get it strong. Two is a good number, three is great, but probably even two is really effective. - Got it. And this explains the for strength athletes - Yeah. make sense, because very long- - They're going to even train twice a day. Even they'll just squat, in the morning squat and - With their eating and their sleeping, they probably don't have - Well, that's why they're pros. So it's their job, right? That's what they do. So yeah, your hypertrophy. Strength training programming is somewhat complicated, it's not the danger, but you're going to have to pay, The risk is a little bit and you have to be a little bit When it comes to hypertrophy training, the way I like to explain it The programming is idiot-proof, So here's your range. Anywhere between five reps and 30. Can you hit somewhere in there, perfect, it's all equally effective, The only caveat for hypertrophy is you have to take it to muscular failure. - And you need enough and protein synthesis to occur. - Yep. - And if you recover faster, you can maybe do it more frequently. And if you don't, maybe less frequently. - By that logic, should and figure out what repetition in concert with the training frequency that they can do consistently. - My recommendation is I think use the repetition range as because most people don't to do three sets of 10. They're going to get And so I think you should change the rep schemes for It is a very different challenge. The mechanisms that are inducing but there's only a that one can get, right? And so you have, as best we think it now, and some people actually really clearly about the which we don't. It's still very much a guessing game, but the three most likely drivers two, mechanical tension, and You don't have to have all three. One is sufficient. You can have a little bit of so you get it to play here. We've already talked Again, it's very clear, But it is somewhat a decent proxy, right? Like again, a little Just don't get so sore it's compromising your Mechanical tension is And this is why if you do and you're kind of close you will gain a little bit of muscle. It's not optimal muscle gain, but you're going to gain some like physiology didn't and then five reps is a It's always a blend, so think As you get closer to the As you get closer to the Anywhere between eight reps per set to 30, it's equally effective. Past 30, it's going to blend out. Past eight to five to four to you know, lesser there. So metabolic stress is one, or sorry, mechanical tension Muscle damage is the other one. The third one is metabolic stress. And this is, again, a bit of an area of scientific contention, I know something's there. We're just kind of fumbling to figure out what exactly it is. And this is, metabolic It's there. It's why blood flow restriction That's done very light, so there's very little damage, but somehow it induces a - [Andrew] Very painful. - Oh boy. - I tried this. I have a friend, former special operator who lives out on the East a blood flow restriction And I don't think I actually cried, but. - You probably did. - But I might've cried out once or twice. It was unbelievable, especially Now it was a humid day, I'll claim a little bit of jet lag, but - No, no. It was really brutal. And I also- - Do it on the best day of your - Okay, well, - Still brutal. a little bit better. It was intense, and people to use the proper cuffs for these things. I don't have any relationship that sell these cuffs. But the reason is that particular avenues of blood flow. You can't simply cinch off a muscle. You can't tourniquet a muscle and train. - Not a good idea. kill yourself that way. - Yeah, you can get a blood clot. - Yeah. And so if you're interested in blood flow restriction training, I imagine you have some or will at some point, but also there are resources A question about hypertrophy Many people are wondering or don't train to failure. Assuming good form. - Yeah, okay, assuming good form, great. The answer is both. So you want to train to failure, but you don't need to So you don't need to a partner has to lift But you have to get close. You have to drive either heavy, stress damage, right, or pump. And so a really easy practical I heard Mike Israetel, who runs a company called years ago, outlined this at a NSCA talk. And it was beautiful, and I thought this is the most eloquent about training for hypertrophy. So I want you to look for and let's say that you want Let's say you want your Okay. When you're doing your are you feeling the glute contract? Okay, it doesn't have to be there, but that's a good sign if it is. Okay, let's say I didn't I felt it more in my quads or my back. Okay. Did you feel a big pump afterwards? No, I didn't really feel a pump there either wards or during. Okay, great. Number three. Next day, did you feel a little bit of soreness there at all? No, I didn't. Well, that's a very good indicator, you didn't feel it during the workout, you felt no sort of pump, Don't expect much growth. Didn't happen. across a bunch of muscle groups. - Most likely other muscle especially if you're like, no, Well that's a really good what the hell was moving. And so in terms of targets, if you were to put, how much should I feel it burning during? Anything less than a three, okay, it's probably not doing much, right? But it doesn't, like seven is not, a 10 is not better than seven. You need to feel it, but oh my gosh, I'm dying here. Soreness, same barometer, right? So if you can get like you're probably in a pretty good spot. Five, five, and five is maybe better, but you don't need to go much past that. So I want you to feel the or if you're like I didn't feel it much, I didn't really get a pump but the next day it got really sore, well then you're still on a good path. Again, really sore isn't but next day it's okay. Day after that, I could train, no problem. That's really what you want to go after. And in terms of understanding, is this likely to produce - Excellent, excellent. Very clear parameters and recommendations I know are benefiting me, and If you'd be willing to sets and rep parameters that for people who want to explore further. I realize that with all that there's no one size I love this five to 30 for hypertrophy, that's a pretty vital thing. I don't think I've ever done But now that you've thrown that out there, I see it as a bit of a challenge. - You want to know You're going to get an insane pump. You're going to burn like crazy. But you won't get super sore. Because the mechanical tension's so low. It's so light. So you can get away with it's hard because your You're going to get it like rep 20, and you're going to be like there's a lot left here to get to 30. Where like a set of 10 is much easier, you're just like, okay, Set of 30's like, I got 16 more. It's awful, but you're not- - Just the counting is work. - It's terrible, right, and people tend to just So 30 is possible, but But I would recommend all of 'em. Like it's a really fun in the same workout too, by the way. Like you could do one set of 10 pushups and then take a little break You can mix and match these things. There's no magic recipe that or do it different. So Mondays are my sets of 10 days. Wednesdays are my set of 20 days. And Fridays are my set of 30 days. And you can have all kinds of fun there, and it's hard to screw up. - Great. I love, that phrase is always reassuring. So for strength, is there that is pretty surefire? - So a way to just think for power, well speed, power and strength, is what I just call the All right? So pick three to five exercises. If you're feeling better that If you're feeling less that day, or you have a shorter So this would be three sets, or five exercises the most. So three to five exercises. Do three to five reps, three to five sets, take three to five and do it three to five times a week. So that can be as little for three exercises, three times a week. That's a 20 minute workout, It can be as high as five sets five days a week. So it's very broad and allows the domains of strength and power, while still being able to move and contour towards their lifestyle and soreness and time The only differentiator between power and strength, is intensity. So if you want strength, this is now 85% plus of your max, right? And if you want power, it 'cause you need to move more towards the velocity end of the spectrum, because power is strength So while getting stronger by you probably want to in the 40% to 70% range, So that's it. Both of them, conceptually the exercise, the reps, the frequency, all that can be still in Just change the intensity, depending on which outcome you want. - The nervous system obviously plays an important role at the level of nerves controlling the But of course, we have which are the ones that that control the lower motor And this takes us into the realm of where the mind is at during And to me, this is not an abstract thing. I can imagine doing workouts that are mainly focused on strength, or mainly focused on hypertrophy, and in the case of strength, and when I'm trying to am I trying to, quote In other words, if I'm just away from my body, you or an overhead press, I don't know that I want the contraction of my medial delts. I think I want my mind in with the best proper form. Best, excuse me, and proper form. And certainly with hypertrophy training, best and proper form is going But that simple, or I should changes the patterns of So can we say to get stronger still with proper form and safely, and to get hypertrophy focused still with proper form and safely. - It's very fair. Yeah, as a snapshot answer, it is a very fair thing to think about. Intentionality matters for both. In other words, if you look that's been done on power the intent to move is than the actual movement velocity. So if you're doing say and you're doing just that will result in less than even if you're moving but you're intending to move faster. And this is one of the reasons So if you're coaching an athlete through a power workout especially, and they're doing enough to just lift 50% of their one rep at max, it's not going to generate as them trying to move that even if the net result is Turns out nerves matter. - That's a, I mean I was but as a neuroscientist, if I say amazing that nerves matter. What's amazing to me is, what you're saying is that at the same speed, same weight, if my internal representation, I'm trying to move this versus I'm just trying to and get the weight up, I'm - Yep, this is quality of work, right? This is, did you do enough or did you actually strive Similar concept actually in terms of there is a that have looked at what we'll call the mind muscle connection. And this is doing things and you're simply looking and you're thinking about Even though you execute at the same exact intensity, initial indications are are going to result in - You just gave authorization for people to look at their muscles - Please do. - Please do. - Oh my. - But the selfie is still ruled out. - I'd rather you look at So I'm fine with it. Those are initial. We don't have a large depth And maybe some stuff But it does, it matches have been saying for a There's actually some stuff So if you've ever seen a body builder, they'll do their set of bicep curls and then they'll get out and And they're literally, this This is, if you go back - Or college weight rooms, I should say. - Right. there's something about that age group. - Yeah. checking of biceps in for reasons that escape me. - If you ever interact with my wife, like she will be the first to tell you, I cannot walk past the I'm checking something out. - That you can't, - I can't. - I can't. - Not her me. - [Andy] Like I'm the one - All right, well then I'll be careful not to disparage- - It has nothing to do with the I'm a muscle guy, so and tinkering, or whatever. But yeah, it is, I think it's to do a higher quality training session. Be more intentional, be present, than just executing I think that's globally very So if you're thinking like, I'm going to, like, I don't want to work out today. I got all this going on, I'm just going to do the workout Okay. If you can go, you know what though, like, I'm going to cut 15 I'm going to get my head right. I'm going to go get two 20 that's your best option by far. - You alluded to the fact that even just looking at a particular muscle might benefit in terms you can recruit, or its I've heard before, and I muscles that for whatever reason, genetics or sports that muscles that we find that we can contract to the point of almost a seem to grow more readily than muscles that we - [Andy] Yeah. - And the reason I mentioned is, I mean, you just have to swimmers obviously are very You look at the gymnasts, they seem to be very good - Yeah. a huge number of different so that explains that. So I find that, you I can't get stronger in this, or my whatever body part is weak, in terms of its inability - Yeah, I see where you're going. - That oftentimes that can to engage those upper motor neurons, to deliberately isolate those muscles. Are there ways that particular muscle groups for sake of hypertrophy or strength, or for cases of trying to overcome injury potential or injury, because imbalances are - Yeah, this is actually very common, and I think everyone has There's some part that for me, that was the lats. That was the rhomboids. So my back muscles. For years, I couldn't activate These are the muscle groups that connect your shoulder blades. So if you try to squeeze your that set of muscles there Your lats of course are more vertical and pull you kind of up and down. And no matter how many lat pull ups, I could never No increase in strength. And it took me probably how the hell do I actually In fact, if you'd have asked me, even in my college years as hey flex your lats, you would've seen no movement there. When I was doing a pull up, the only way I could get the bar to move was by using my biceps, right? So it's a synergist muscle, it's supposed to be a in that movement, but because of my over strength in my biceps coupled with my lack of So you're compensating the same movement. Actually kind of an easy imagine doing a bent row. So imagine you're bent or a horizontal angle, and you're going to pull a barbell Now you can actually do with very little back muscle activation, by simply flexing your elbows more. And so you think the barbell's it's coming all the way And you think you're doing a great back development exercise. When in fact, because of the way that you're getting very And this is a really good example of why someone has done many, many, many times, but yet failed to see Which goes back to earlier which is why exercises themselves do not determine the adaptation. It's the execution that matters, right? It's the technique, it's the rep range, all of those are going to So if anytime you're banging and thinking like why am I growth or strength or whatever, it's guaranteed to be one You're probably not getting In that particular example, try imagine doing that bent row. Instead of pulling the squeeze your shoulder as far as they can possibly go, and then bring your elbows up without changing the angle of your elbow. So in other words, without bringing your hand So keep that same angle and come up as high as you possibly can, and then finish out the movement. That's going to guarantee a utilization first of the back muscles and a finishing with which is how that movement So how do you coach into that? Well, it can be a number of things. Whenever I'm diagnosing movement quality, I look for a handful of things, but very first one is awareness. You'd be surprised how many folks, when you just simply tell them that muscle group right there, and maybe you give 'em a tactical prompt, so you touch it, or you This is actually why, sorry but this is why things for actually increasing So a misconception out there is if you wear like a belt then the belt kind of and your abs get weaker. That can happen, but the exact So if you take a belt, for example, and you cinch it down really tight, and then you just completely you will see a loss of because now the belt is doing the work. But if you put the belt on just to where you get some sensory feedback, and you think about to activate the core musculature, you will actually see a higher, if we look at like EMG activation, the core muscles would to a greater extent, than - [Andrew] Because of - Hundred percent. - And for those that are wondering what proprioceptive feedback is. Proprioceptive feedback is that there are nerves that that control muscle contractions, but then there are sensory that go back into the nervous system, and those work in concert, and that feedback is proprioceptive. I think it literally where one's limbs are, on those limbs. - I've seen, I don't but I've seen in gyms where and someone will tap the muscle of the person who's this is consensual tapping not walking around - Please. muscles, please. That to provide that so that the person doing the of the muscle that they're And it seems that that's - Yeah. I'll give you two examples. I'll go to the back with but then I'll stay in So a very easy example that you and I learned this from Brian McKenzie, our mutual friend, right? So if you take your hands and open 'em up, like you make an L with both your hands, and now take those and just above your hip bones. Now what I want you to do is on your hands with your core. And you can feel a lot of core activation. And most people think core activation is the front of your stomach, right? Your six pack. What you need to do is create So it's the front, it's the So if you take your two Now put them just outside Can you move your fingers by 90% of people can do yes. Same exact thing. Now go to that same position, just above what's called your ASIS, so your anterior superior iliac spine, right up that front of your Can you now move? Great, 50% of people are not - Really? - Take your thumb and go - My what? - PSIS. Posterior superior iliac spine. - Right, now can you move? Most likely no. - Sort of if I do a - Don't. Just with your core musculature. - Barely. - [Andy] Yeah. - Maybe- If you can't perform that contraction, you can't stabilize your spine. So only way to get is then to go through hyper-extension. And now that's a compression strategy you're putting on your spine. It's better than rounding your back, like in going forward, but over-extension is not great either. So you want to be able in a cylindric fashion, So if you go back to our very first thing, and with your hands open, and if you're like I can't get activation, if you pay attention to your thumb, right? Now, just move your thumb. And now you see activation - Mm-hmm. - Boom. Now if you can imagine turning and now notice how I at the same time I'm talking. If you have to go [gasping] So you have to be able to So now, if I can put myself in a position, and Kelly Starrett has always said 20%. Give me 20% activation I can hinge, I can jump. I don't need to be locked down to be able to brace my spine. It's going to be ineffective and wasteful. I want to be here. Well, a belt provides that where I can put it on 20%, if I don't press against the belt, the belt slides and 'cause it's not on super tight. If it's on so dang tight, it's So we just want a little Same thing with your upper back. If you're having a those rhomboids or those lats, someone can do a simple thing put it right between your shoulder blades, and you just tell them things Squeeze my finger. As you're doing your bent you can touch the lat. You can do just visualization stuff. So just imagine like a 3D and you're watching that It's very powerful, and So a touch, a visual, get people to activate. Outside of simple awareness, typically eccentric overload for activation of a - So the lowering of the bar, - The movement of the It's not necessarily was lowering. 'Cause that kind of depends - Right, sure. - [Andrew] I misspoke, yeah. - Things like a pull up. Okay, so if I'm going to do a pull up and I have poor lat activation, I can still get the pull by contraction of the However, to make the movement simpler, I'm going to go all the way to the top. So imagine stepping on a box or something going all the way to that And starting from there, and I want you to simply And so you're just simply into smaller pieces, that allow you to focus It's going to be great, eccentrics are great for very good for hypertrophy, and allow you to focus on control. I'm willing to bet a huge who're like I've never had a sore lat, you know, I've done a lot of if you do that eccentric only you'll probably wake up the I feel it there. And that's a sign, even if you didn't feel it in the workout, but it got a little sore the And then eventually you'd maybe take a break. Maybe do an isometric, where And eventually work where you can do the and isometric portions, So that might take you six weeks. May take you six months. But that's generally a pretty how to activate a muscle group. - Terrific suggestions. Is it true that eccentric might require a little or they lead to more soreness than - They can. - Yeah, they typically can, but they're also higher force output. So very good for strength development. But they're going to lead So more potential for that is going to be associated with pain. There's not as much, people as a result of microtrauma And that can happen, Most of the time, it is things that's going to lead to excessive and that's going to be then So that's probably explaining than actually microtrauma. - Terrific. I was going to get to breathing if we can do a brief little as it relates to weight training. Is there a prescriptive for how to breathe during resistance training? Here I'm thinking with weights, not necessarily body although I suppose it could be, that applies 75% of the What I was taught, and I'm this was wrong, 'cause then there might be more benefits awaiting me, is that I should exhale on the effort and inhale on the lesser Is that true? Is there a better way to breathe? - There is a better way to think about it. So number one, if you then this conversation goes away. So if you can maintain intramuscular, intra-abdominal pressure while breathing, then I don't really care when you breathe. Very challenging to do If we flag this on two Paradigm one over here, you're and you're going to do front squats where a barbell is sitting on your throat. If you don't take a breath, one way and one way only. You passing out. Clearly has to be some breathing strategy. The other end of the spectrum is let's say you're going You don't need any amount of breath there, it's never going to happen, right? The question is, what about in the middle? Right? So I'm doing some sort of Well, number one, make sure you're braced and then you can get away with In general, a decent strategy during the lowering, or eccentric, or most dangerous part of the movement, and then you can exhale So if the bench presses are lowered it under control, and now started the and then you wanted to take an expiration, during the last half of that's an okay strategy. If you're going to do a single rep, you don't need to worry about it. You can just avoid or You're going to be just fine. If you're doing more than that, especially three to four you're going to have to have A very common one is I'm going to do like [gasping], exhale on the third. Reset and re-breathe. Something like that. If you feel like you need that's okay, but it's 'cause you have to take of sitting there. If it's a squat, that's if you're resting at the bottom. So there is a little bit of game here. So in general though, is that 75, 75 kind of really thrown Breathe in, do the lowering, If you have to less reps, More reps, then you need to come up with some sort of breathing strategy. - How about breathing in between sets, and maybe even after the workout? - Yeah. - This is something I think like and because the, it is the case that the specific activation and to muscles, and the nervous system, but also the attacks on the nervous system can also take place between sets. I mean, if you're really and you get adrenaline, you know, as high in between sets or close to it as you are during your sets, you can imagine that the Or at least that you're in the most efficient way, - Yeah, fair. You're not going to see any just breathe in between. Whether it's in between every single one of them's going and they're going to immediately A very intentional one. They're a little bit depending on the sport. Even a PGA golfer, there's going we're moving to the next one, we're going to go into Every one of 'em. It's a huge area of potential if you're just ignoring it. In general, we want to do we want to restore. It depends on what we're combating. Are we combating low oxygen or high CO2? So that strategy is going to But in general, that is to get better. In fact, people can go back and listen to some of your earlier episodes well you have spoken about, when neuroplasticity works, and if you're losing that you're leaving gains on So not only are you going to see mostly have a breathing We're not going to just drink water, and walk out of the gym. There will be a down regulation strategy that is heavily involved with as well as breath control. The individual prescription on that, there's a ton of variation The easiest thing is do Most likely that's going as much nasal breathing And a really easy rule of relative to inhale. So if you need to take a double that time and breathe Box breathing is fine. So equal inhale, equal hold, So four second inhale, four second hold, et cetera, et cetera. A triangle is fine too. There's a lot of ways, you like what Brian McKenzie will do, and Rob, and those guys have, you for inhale exhale control But some strategy of calm. We're going to almost always and then we're going to cover light. We can do some, like we've musical interventions as well, but you can just as simple if you have to, and just That alone is going to be productive. - That's great. If you're breathing in the I suggest closing your eyes, and if, you'll still get funny looks, but you won't see people looking at you. - Yeah, exactly. - I love this, and I started doing this because you and Brian McKenzie and it completely changed I realized that I was leaving workouts, both endurance workouts and feeling great, but looking at my phone, getting right into email and meetings. - Ooh, ooh, rough, on my breathing. And all I did was to introduce a five minute down regulation. So exhale emphasized breathing, a bunch of different varieties, physiological size, box breathing, exhale emphasized, twice as for five minutes. And I noticed two things. One, I recovered more no question about it. - [Andy] Yeah. - The numbers told me that. And the other is that I used that would occur three or four And I always thought that I'd generally eaten a meal Turns out it wasn't the meal at all. - Yeah. - It's that adrenaline ramp I wasn't clamping that at the end. And so I think eventually it's crashed, and then three or four hours later I'm having a hard time even on my computer, thinking Maybe it was what I ate for lunch. Turns out, the down regulations allowed me to work through the afternoon It's really been quite powerful, and so I'm grateful to you for that. And I think this is something are not doing, and it's only five minutes. - You don't even have to do five. Give me three. If you really have to And you can even do You can do this in the So you're done, you're finished. Drink of water, whatever has to be, and you're getting in a Just give me three minutes in the shower. It's not ideal, but as little as that, it can pay huge dividends. You need some sort of internal Like throttle down here, That has to happen. I could go on and on here, but I think we're making the same point kind of over and over again. It's a big deal and do it. - Yeah, and you're saving energy. I mean, the energy here is neural energy. I think fighters do this, good fighters learn to Sprinters learn to do this between events. I think humans should learn you know, sort of interval type activity, including work, social engagement. - Yeah, I was going to say- such a powerful tool. - Do this for one minute, whether it's an individual or if it's a, you just did a and you're deep into it or whatever, fine. Just gimme one minute. Set your alarm, just one minute, and that also will pay dividends. - I love it, and as I said, it's made a outsize different, positive difference on my training, but also activities outside my training. Which is, for me, I'm not I train for health and 'cause I enjoy it, but when a really hard with the ability to do - Of course. a good situation. So this is really terrific. There's a lot more in of strength and hypertrophy, but you've given us a tremendous amount of valuable information there. Maybe now would be a good and of the four types of endurance, and maybe you could what do you think are the two or pursuing in terms of I realize that we probably as well, but when I think I think, okay, the ability 30 plus minutes of some ongoing activity, how does one maximize that work? What are the modifiable variables? And then maybe you could tell us what the other major category is, that people ought to have in their kit. - Okay. So starting off with exercise choice. One thing, as soon as we cross and this is true for all exercise choice needs to be very concerned with eccentric landing, right? So you don't need to avoid it, but you need to recognize it, those other strength and speed ones. The volume is low on those ones. So if you have some eccentric But as we sort of talked more eccentric means greater chance of muscle damage soreness. So if you take something and or even five minutes, you have a recipe for blowing up. You can imagine I haven't run in forever, and I've just, I've listened and I'm okay, I'm going to get into my And I start jogging, I'm I remember when I was, I and you just do a 25 minute jog. The amount of eccentric on every single step, because even slow running, you never have two feet on So it is a one foot land, one foot land, your entire body mass plus repeated now hundreds of times. That eccentric landing is going Your quads are going to go. You're probably going to get this isn't, those are entirely and when the tissue is not If you're not landing correctly, this is when knee pain happens, back pain, shoulder, neck pain, 'cause So anytime we start pressing to fatigue, let's be very concerned with there. So my initial recommendation is, start with activities exercise choice-wise that are mostly concentric based. So think about a cycle. So when you're riding on a but you're never landing and absorbing it. So you could go out and and you're not going to get that sore because there's not a Swimming, similar thing here, right? There's some eccentrics when but fairly minimal. It's mostly a push push, Rowing, similar thing. Mostly concentric. Pushing a sled is fantastic. Going uphill, running or all good, 'cause they're relative to like running downhill, which would be a very, So if you're first progress your volume for if it involves eccentric landing. A really bad strategy say circuit training class that involves a bunch of box jumps, right? This is not a good way to do your first foray into conditioning. You're going to get incredibly sore because you're jumping and landing. You're now looking at in terms of absorption, even if you're just jumping. So be careful of that, in any of those endurance So what to pick. Pick the one that you are most because you're going to do it a lot. It's going to be a lot of repetitions. Whatever one you feel the most joy in. If that's rowing, great. If that's pushing a sled, You can do this actually with weights. This is our preferred way, by So we might do a 30 minute circuit where we do a five minute farmer's carry with a pretty light weight. So you're just going to carry and you're just going to for five minutes. You're going to set that down and then you're going to do and then you're going to pick that up and you're going to do body weight squats. Like slowly and just tempo. And you're going to do a so the athletes don't get super bored. Or a very simple one, 10 minutes on a treadmill, 10 minutes on a rower. But for those of you I can't do 30 straight break it up into three or that are all fairly safe. So that's how I would do - Got it. - And then in terms of heart I mean how much attention The kind of very broad on this podcast a few times, based on my read of the literature, is for most people that including people that are working on size and strength gains, that getting 150 to 180 minutes of so-called zone two cardio, - Yeah. - can just barely have a conversation, but if one were to push any harder, you wouldn't be able It's just as a kind of that almost everybody should follow, in order to just keep their But I know there's a lot of nuance there, and some people would like to for an hour at speed, right? - Yeah. - Obviously not sprinting. But what are some of the finer points on long distance endurance? And how often should one do it? - Okay. Frequency, you could - [Andrew] Even when doing - No question. - Well that, I think, for people to hear, 'cause a lot of people greatly diminish their as it's often called, by - Zone two, you have almost no ability to block your hypertrophy. Zone two, truly, if it's if you're talking about in fact there is strong reason to think that is not going to influence hypertrophy for the overwhelming majority of people. - It might even help it to the various- - Does it matter? Let's say someone's doing primarily strength and hypertrophy. Their primary goals are And then they're going to do, they're going to hit of zone two cardio per week. Assuming they're breaking that up into three or four sessions. Does it matter if they before or after? Does that matter? I tend to do, just by way certainly I'm just one example. I tend to do resistance training one day, then I'll do zone two cardio the next day, I jog 'cause that's the thing I prefer. Then I'll do strength hypertrophy and then, and jog for my zone two cardio. And then I take one full day off a week. I've never actually on the same day, but were would it matter if I my strength hypertrophy training? - Not really. - You're going to be just fine. The interference effect So this is all the way back to 1980, Bob Hickman's stuff, right, and he was actually working who's one of the fathers And sort of the story he was the strength training guy, and Holloszy and almost all of those initial exercise physiologists were conditioning folks, right? So it's almost always And that's why a bulk of historically, is shaped in that direction. That's what those scientists So Hickman was there in the lab, and then how much of this is but so the story goes, that this is sort of and you know how from a PI to a postdoc, and kind of that razzing And eventually he was like you and he was like you got and kind of goes back and forth. Well, you know who wins in that equation? It's not the postdoc, right? So it's, the PI gets in and So he starts running with Holloszy and then eventually starts I'm losing strength I think it was his bench press or maybe his squat. I can't remember. Who knows if it's even real. But point is, so he's going along and so eventually that starts to create a little bit of animosity, and he's like actually I don't and then blah, blah, blah. And so they did what any good well, let's find out, right? And so he run a really famous experiment where he took a group, three groups. One group did a endurance piece, right, the steady state cardio. One group did a strength training piece. And then the third group did both of those workouts combined. Not like a reduction, so both volumes stacked And the results are fairly predictable. In terms of the endurance group only had the greatest increases in The strength training group had the greatest increases But where the interesting part was, and where this whole field So this is concurrent training is what it's generally called. So you're doing concurrent things. And typically that means stacked on top of some - In the same timeframe. - Same workout. - [Andy] Or same like week. It doesn't really, it can be, - Got it. Well, the concurrent group in VO2 max as the endurance group. And he is like, well, okay. So the strength training did not compromise the However, they saw much lower increases in strength than hypertrophy. And so it was, the conclusion was, the addition of endurance work compromised muscle growth However, the addition of strength training to your endurance work will not compromise your endurance gains. Now that second piece has been shown countless more times, right? So if you're an endurance athlete, adding strength training is almost always going to Very little chance of detriment. This is why every endurance athlete is going to have some sort of to their training. The controversy though came So how much endurance training really blocks muscular development. And for years, myself included, was we preached hard. Don't do these two My friend, my colleague, Kevin Murach has a really nice review Those two guys put this thing where they cover all these things, and they've got some But the general answer here is interference effect is sort of real, but it's probably greatly overblown. It matters, so are you at conversation pace? That's probably doing very little. With the assumption that are you doing an eccentric-based Well, then you're going to have more of an interference That makes a ton of sense, What's your total energy intake? If you're eating sufficient calories, you can still be in an anabolic state. If the addition of extra it's all it really is, the cardio, put you in a negative energy state, it's going to become very So those things matter. If you're talking about around the track as a warmup, like that's not interference effect. What we're really talking about is a big volume performed consistently. Now after Hickman came out people followed it up in the And we started to look and see, there's this cell-signaling pathway that goes down called mTOR, and that's what leads to muscle growth. And then on the other there's a thing called AMPK, which is more associated with mitochondrial biogenesis and endurance. And there's this little most people would point to TSC2. Well, turns out AMPK activation is fine. If you activate mTOR, but if you activate AMPK, it's going to activate And so it was like we had You're going to get weaker. Now we had mechanism. So that story became very, very strong that this interference effect, and this is how science When you see mechanism match up with practical human outcome. It's a strong- Yeah. - It was still wrong though. It just took more science, right? And this is why we always a bit of time, and you have to be And again, even me in the field who has a practitioner I felt very strongly, It just didn't turn out to be the case. Enough studies came out it's probably not that big a deal. Unless the movement is the volume is very high. You're trying to maximize muscle growth, and energy's not controlled. If that's not all the case, interference effect is most people should worry about. Especially when you compare that against the well-roundedness that you need for total Probably not a big deal. - Very reassuring for me to hear, because I do enjoy lifting weights and I really enjoy running. And I love running outside. I believe I used to experience when I used to do a very I would just go out for two I don't know that I ate I always feel like I eat enough or more. I love to eat. But that long Sunday run to make progressive gains in strength and hypertrophy in the gym. Whereas when I cut that to 30 minutes, three or four times a week, I don't see any - Probably very real. - And I haven't trained in a very long time, so I don't, I haven't experienced the which as you said before, most, if not all endurance or at least should be doing just to keep the undercarriage - Yeah, there's a bunch - So what are some protocols for continuous endurance training? I mean, I've thrown out this 150 to 180 minute zone two cardio, but that's really the kind - Yeah. - And there, I'm probably being generous. It's probably the nursery that everyone should do. What sorts of other protocols, I realize that can be very goal-directed, but is it unreasonable, for instance, for somebody to do four hours of continuous endurance training with intervals in there as well, to get it kind of all around heart health and the ability to go long distances? - Yeah, I'll answer this two ways. The very first one. To tackle the long duration endurance is, how I refer to it. You asked earlier about heart rate zones. To me, that's almost totally irrelevant. It doesn't matter, right? If you're moving, you're moving. That's the functional piece here. If you want to push it and go that has tremendous health benefits. If you want to do it a If you're at the pace where to me, I don't even That's not a pejorative, by the way. That is just general physical movement. And it is extraordinarily You need a lot more of that than we get. You can do this in a Just taking your phone calls moving. If you've got a 30 minute call every day, or most days of the week, and you've checked not that whole box, but a pretty good chunk of it. - And that could even be done inside, - 100%. pacing back and forth. I'm a big pacer. - The, yeah, me too. Like you probably saw me, like all over the place. Most of the time, when like I'm shadow boxing, not even intentionally, I'm just like. - Do you have one of those - I don't. But like every lab I ever - We did an episode on and the data on those treadmills They definitely increase alertness, which for obvious reasons, even a little bit of - No doubt. So pacing around, moving, getting walks when you can. And then in terms of building endurance, let's say somebody wants to quote unquote, get into better shape. - Yeah. - They already, may or some size and strength And they just want to get, they - Yeah. So I can- 180 thing tick over into - Yeah, okay, so I think a weekly schedule, just as That long duration stuff as I mentioned, right? It's just a, this is what you need to do as a human, moving forward. We haven't improved. If you're extremely unfit, you may see some changes in but for the most part, this is just knocking out the you need to be higher functioning. So whatever that time domain It's not a huge concern of mine. What I think you need You need to do something once a week, that gets you to a maximum heart rate. Now I don't have to - So this means really sucking for air. - Really, like as high You can wear a heart But maximum heart rate, the rough equation we say So if you're 40 years old, your maximum heart rate is probably about 180 beats per minute. Now I can tell you flat out right now, my max heart rate is close to 210, which means I'm 10-years-old. So take that number with a grain of salt. I have had a bunch of who are in their 20s, and And they are in way So maximum heart rate is not a good proxy for physical fitness. It's a rough number. An easy way to do it is if or anything like that, do the hardest workout see what the highest number you get is, and assume that's close. If you want to just start that's fine too. Do something though where Like this is really, really challenging. - For how long? - However long that takes you. That can be a 30 second go on an Airdyne or Air Assault bike. That could be a, do one of those things where you kind of like sprint, run as hard as you can during and then walk the corners. Kind of an old classic, when you and I were - They don't do that anymore. - I guess, I don't know, I don't - In PE class we had to change, and if you didn't bring running shoes, you had to do it barefoot. - Oh, I love it! I love your teacher. - Yeah, it wasn't a, our baseball teams weren't that good, but anything like running cross country, just 'cause of where I grew up. - Oh yeah. So yeah, they'd make - Yeah, so it can be in at a minimum. It's hard to get you to in shorter than 30 seconds. You can get to total but getting to a true heart rate max is probably going to take So it doesn't really It can be, again, a sprint uphill. It could be, we were talking, You know like, whatever - Although those have an - Yeah, they do. No question about it. But if you did- - Not to actual death, by the way. - If you just did I'm going for 90 seconds, it probably won't take to get close to max workout. the whole workout? - [Andy] Could be. - So once a week, get to max heart rate. - Touch it. - I love it. It's not the best, but it'll work. - And what are the specific - Okay, so earlier in our chat, we outlined the rule of specificity. Specific adaptation to impose to man. If you're never getting you're never, it would be but only going to 60% So every cardiovascular with cardiovascular training, is just simply going to get So if you just start at the heart itself. Stroke volume increases. So this is the amount of blood that's kicked out per contraction. Cardiac output. Resting heart rate. If you go to the endothelial function, you're talking about nitric oxide release. Endothelial health in general. Capillary, mitochondria, all the way down. Like you just walk Pulmonary exchange to the lungs. All of those are going to benefit by being challenged to their maximum. - They also teach you - Yeah, there you go. Right. - Stress is what causes adaptation, right? So if you push your, okay, If you did 25 minutes of steady state, you're not challenging the same thing as what we just talked about. The way that I explain this is if you understand the point then you understand the That's it. So if you and I both go run on a, we both did a VO2 max test. So a classic VO2 max test is going to take eight to 12 minutes, and it's going to look We're going to get on a And every minute I'm going to just slightly either the speed or the grade. Most of the time, it's the speed, right? So we get to a high grade, and then we go five miles and we just go until Now let's say you and I did that, and we had the same exact timeframe, and so we both went eight minutes. The time that you last is not the thing that It's the volume of oxygen is what determines it. So let's say we had the same time domain and we had the same VO2 max. Let's say they were both 50 milliliters per kilogram per minute, which is like a okay number, but that's nothing to be Just because we have the same number does not mean we have the same point of physiological failure. And this matters because what do I do about it So if you got off and I started asking you a series of questions, and you're like, and I basically said why'd you quit? Why did you jump off the And you were like my chest, I thought my heart was going to explode. Okay, great. If you ask me and I said like I was breathing hard but this is a very rough of physiological disruption. Now what I've seen a lot with especially like fighters. They're going to generally because they don't often do in their legs. They don't do a lot of leg work. They're fighting on their or on top, or on their knees. So their legs tend to Someone who fails in the like say you did a lot of leg training, typically like an endurance athlete who's, that's not going to be their issue. It's just going to be they're and ventilation threshold that If I put you on the exact it's not going to be as effective because you're going to and they're going to always fail at their cardiovascular system. I need to flip that, right? I need to put you in a position to where you can reach a true heart rate or ventilation challenge, while your legs are Or the opposite. So the training protocol is The adaptation is in the same thing. So if you are failing then you might see a greater in your legs, relative to somebody else who's failing in their cardiovascular system. They may see a greater change in something on that side of the equation. So it matters how you're - What I love about this is that it's, it sounds like it's like a thermometer for where one is weak and needs work, but also provides a stimulus to improve the very thing that you need. - That's the trick, right? So to just get real brass tacks about it, it would be once a week. - Okay, yeah. - 90 seconds near maximum heart rate. - I'll make it easier. Could I, you know? - Could I do five or six - No question. You can do, as long as you I'm good, right? Ideal world, probably four to eight. - In that single session. - Ideal. - Right. If that takes you 20 seconds If you want to do 30 on, 30 off. You want to do 20 on 40 off, 40 on 20 off, those numbers don't matter. - And is there an on the other sorts of training - It actually tends to be complementary. The evidence available suggests that this high interval stuff is to hypertrophy training, and some other cool things, which are very beneficial molecules that people don't understand. They think it's bad, it's actually a hugely beneficial thing. It can be interference. It can provide an interference if calories are not accounted for, if rest is not accounted But in general, it's probably okay. I wouldn't add it to your for maximizing hypertrophy. But for the person who wants to just get well rounded physiology, yeah I wouldn't hesitate to do these, even in the same session - Terrific. And if that's done once a week, and the 150 to 180 minutes or you know, in the rest of the week, person's doing their strength we would hope, what other could one incorporate. You mentioned muscular would like a wall sit or Is that something, is - Yes. - Be doing planks and wall sitting? - No no, it's extraordinarily useful. Let's hold on muscular endurance. I want to finish one So if we're building once a week hit that number, we talked four to eight, that's fantastic. If you can't manage the do it every other week. It's still very good, right? 'Cause I get it. Like I'm a working person too, and sometimes you're just like, I cannot. Those workouts feel incredible they are daunting. If you love this stuff, you If you hate it though, you're going to be able to knock this out. You're going to end up doing 70, 80%, which is not going to get you the benefit. So just don't do it. - You really have to hit that ceiling. - [Andy] You've got to get up there. Close. - Have someone chase, when doing this kind of work, I'm basically being chased by somebody with a syringe full of poison. - Yep. - And while there are other and for the benefit of the one I'm referring to is to just run. - Yep. - My motivation is typically, we're done in a couple of minutes. Just get it done. Like don't go here if but when you show up, check in, and it's over really quickly. - Breathing down regulation afterwards. - Hundred percent. You have to, right. It's a huge key. So if you absolutely can't do That's twice a month. Give me twice a month. Can be done on the road, Like do a really good thorough warmup. Don't just jump into those, It's not going to be as beneficial. Really nice, good sweat broke. A really good warmup. And then give me four minutes of hard work and we're done, right? Get out of there. If you want to use like a to kind of like aid in Get in the sauna, get in a get up there, warm up, knock it out. Whole thing is 20 minutes, You're out of there. - I'm going to start doing this. - It's so better, you - Yeah, I've got all, has a different piece - So, I want that once a week, realistically every I want that physical activity piece, call it whatever you Ideally you'll do as much of You're not going to be able at nose only. Don't even try. But if you can go that or 20 or 40 minutes or that's actually a good So go as hard as you can, while still being able to If you have to open up your but try to stay there. What you'll see is very quickly, you'll be able to while just breathing through your nose, which has a bunch of The other piece I want is can you sustain hard work for eight to 12, maybe as little as four minutes? I'll give you four to 12 minutes. This doesn't have to be quite You don't have to get to a heart end max, but can you get somewhere and can you hold that for four minutes? Maybe gimme two minutes, and do that twice. Something like that. Ideal situation is what what we'll call mile repeats, 'cause they're running Whatever time it takes them to finish, they're going to rest that. So it's a one-to-one work to rest ratio. So a five minute mile, rest That's probably pretty - Well the five minute part For me it would be eight - Fine. - [Andrew] Probably - Well in your particular So do 800 meters. Do something that takes It is a lower intensity but is a much higher workload. That is probably going to give you, you might even argue the because it is sustained work output. And that's very critical. The downside of kind of like It's physical activity, it's it's lymphatic drainage, it's not very cardiovascularly You're just not going from just walking actively. - So two to six minutes of- - Hard work. with then an equivalent and then repeat how many times. - Once, if you have to. If it needs to be one rep, if it needs to be a six minute thing, and then down regulate breathe. Twice, if you can do that, like whatever you can really do. And you can just take that as long of the training Exercise choice could So again, you can do sled pushes, or it could be a kettlebell circuit, or any combination of you're working and you're You have got to be able to hold on at a very high waste as well as a high demand for - And breathing during of hard output is mainly through the nose, or combination nose and mouth, or is that getting too technical? - Well, it's probably, like I like it, but you tell me if it's too technical. You're going to try to maintain but you're going to lose it at some point. You can go through their, and learn more, and what gear to be in, if you have to go nose in mouth But I don't really care too I'm getting most of my and training and everything. So if you have to open to get the work done, that's okay. Oh, then we'll actually go to which was muscular endurance. Let's go back to that piece. Muscular endurance is incredibly important for general maintenance of joint health. In other words, you have got, That's a very classic meaning you've got a couple but to make it easy, two fast twitch and slow twitch. Fast twitch fibers tend to be, but they're not always, bigger. They contract with a higher velocity, that's why they are called fast twitch. But they tend to be more Slow twitch tend to be They are more packed with mitochondria, they are generally better but contract at lower velocity. Well we have these two types so that we can regulate function more. You have some muscle groups let me go back up a quick second. Each individual muscle in a human body has a combination of some amount of fast and some amount of slow. That percentage of fast versus slow differs from muscle to muscle. So it also differs from person to person. Easy example is your calf muscle. There's three, but there's two One's called the soleus The gastroc is the one and point it towards that's the one that pops out on the medial side, the inside. The soleus is what we call And it is generally about And that's because it's supposed all time though. It's supposed to be on permanently. It's meant to keep, we 'cause it's meant to keep Your spinal erectors various muscles for postural are generally slow twitch muscles. So they're supposed to be on not produce force, but don't get tired. The gastroc is the opposite. It's not activated very often, it's meant for extreme propulsion. So this gives us the ability to reach up and scratch our eyeball, and also punch somebody, right? We have to be able to which is going back to Henneman right? Controlling what we while also not wasting energy, which is the downside of activating a big threshold motor neuron So a more efficient mode of energy, but the total amount So muscular endurance slow twitch muscle fibers and slow twitch predominant muscles maintain their working job. So if you lose your in your spinal erectors or your calf, you're going to start You're going to be getting, putting joints in a movement pattern that they're not going to So it's more than about then a two minute wall squat. It's about maintaining joint integrity, and allowing that when you ask it to do heavy and fast. So what I mean by that is, you've got a whole combination and we will generally call these like the rotator cuff muscles. Well, let's imagine those get fatigued, and they start And then you go to do or in an emergency situation. Those are already pretty fatigued. You're going to rely more upon which are there less You're likely to get out of position. And this is a whole recipe of like, God, why is my shoulder just hurting? God, my back. That's very often a case and the slow twitch muscle So you need to build that back up, so that they can control and so the fast twitch fibers - I'm hoping that what meets what you said accurately. My experience is that getting or even doing house work or yard work, almost always happens when fatigued, that's kind of obvious, but also getting in position Setting down a weight or or picking up dumbbells. That's almost always this lower back thing that happens every six or eight months. And what you're saying, is that this muscular endurance or things of that sort, maybe you could give us a can help us because they to do what we normally think of as the more intense work. So it's really the, it the architecture of the body, includes nerves and muscles that lets the limbs and other do its best work. Is that a good way- its own power and force. Yep. We've actually landed of strength and conditioning, which is, similar to what So I said, exercises do Application determines adaptation. This one sounds similar, There are no good or bad exercises. There's only good or bad application. Here's a great example of that, right? So you do not get hurt dead-lifting because deadlifts are dangerous. You only get hurt dead-lifting because you either got in a bad position. You got in a bad position because you either which is one of the things you just said, or you ended up in a bad position. You did too much volume. You did too much intensity. Or you did too much complexity. Those last three things all hurt you because they result in the first one, which is out of position. Or another way to think about this is if it's not a visible change in position, is stress got put into that should not absorb that much stress. So you did too much of it. You did it too heavy. You got fatigued. And so you broke position. You got too heavy, so you broke position. You made the exercise too complex, you put too many moving parts in it, you put too many joints in it, You did that too many times, over time. Now we've led to either back pops and you fall on the floor. Or just like, man, this All these are result of the same thing. So you cannot ever blame the exercise for causing the problem. It's always either the user or the coach. You programmed way too much here, and I can't handle that position. Or you yourself went into it too much. So if you're getting these little tweaks and problems going on, you've made an error So simply back off. Reduce the complexity, right? Give yourself more Do less volume. Do less intensity. In fact, if you look at the people from the physical therapy world, in terms of the pain literature, it's very clear that is very rarely going to work. What you want to do is to just below that threshold and you want to train right there. That's going to allow Number one, tissue tolerance. And then number two, desensitization. A lot of pain stuff, and you can probably speak especially with things like low back pain, is there's not necessarily It's a lot of hypersensitization of just pain signal, pain signal. Omitting the movement entirely does not get that signal to go away. You need to train just below So you want to make sure that the muscular endurance allows you, you're just putting volume right below where you start to get a tweak. And it is beautifully effective for that. - Yeah, I've experienced this for years, sometimes The two things that anterior tib work. So hats off to Knees Over who has created a lot of But- - Turns out joints, full range of motion, you're in a better spot. - Yeah, something about from the knee down helped my back. And then also some neck work. And friends of mine are always teasing me that my gym is filled with It doesn't look like any other gym. A lot of it's just and still training, but. I love this idea of getting right at the, below the threshold of pain activation, and not simply going or just taking complete rest, 'cause that actually can be detrimental. I'd love to talk about a few items that support training of all kinds, and where there's a lot of confusion and indeed misconception and mystery. And just get your take on these. And I just want to that for some of these, for some of them there's less science, but there certainly is a lot And those categories are - Ah! - Because obviously whether whether or not you're strength training, if you're a human being, But in terms of work output maybe even cognitive work output, maybe tackle hydration first, There is what I call, and what I think has the Galpin Equation, which you Because I think that people realize that there are a range but there is a really, a desperate need for that work for 75% of So hydration is key. Maybe you could underscore And then what is the Galpin and I think others are - Yeah, okay. Benefits of hydration slash So whether that's dehydration or overload. Physiology has hormetic curves. Right, now typically we think about this in terms of toxicology. So what this means is at some point giving you a dose of something, testosterone's a very easy example. If you're clinically deficient and I give you a little bit, and it brings you back you generally see an improvement in health and functionality. Taking you though from doesn't always necessarily In fact, if you continue to go, it's going to provide detriment, right? So everything has this curve. And then some things which means like a is actually beneficial because then you come back That's how adaptation works. Basic hormesis, okay. Hydration's the same way. So at the end of the curve we all know you could die, right? You have to have things, in that is ubiquitous across biologies, in terms of every living There's no other vitamin, that is required among all living things, with the exception of water. So that should give you of it's [speaking in Like you got to have this thing. Down here at the bottom, if you're dehydrated and I give you more, it's beneficial effects. However, if you are up the top already and I continue to give now we run into actual problems, and we can get what's called hyponatremia, which is more common than people realize. Nitremia being, actually but the sodium And you've probably talked of why that's an issue. If sodium potassium balances come off, heart stops, right? Muscle contraction ends, So you don't want to be So understanding this rough equation I sort of loosely calculated I think the most context is talking about how much water to drink and then how much water So the very easy answer is half your body weight in ounces per day, is a very loose guideline for total amount of fluid consumption. So if you weigh 200 pounds, aim for a hundred ounces of water. It's like a very easy number. If you hit that, you're probably, I'd say, 90% of you are good. If you then go to exercise, you need to then account for And in general, you want of the amount of weight you lost in fluid. In other words, if you worked out and you were 200 pounds naked, and you went and did your and you weighed yourself again, you lost two pounds of water. That's 32 ounces. You want to drink back about 125% of that. So instead of drinking 32 ounces, I want you to drink 40, 42, 'Cause one of the reasons why is, unless you're drinking meaning the same exact and that you're in your fluid, you're just going to go You're going to get a bunch and you're going to actually and you're going to urinate it out. - What if I'm not weighing And is there a shorthand after training for an hour, I should drink at least - Yeah that- I'm not sweating super heavily. - Yeah. In that particular case, you could probably go something like, if everyone in the world did, that's probably like pretty decent. - And they're probably doing that, right? - Yeah. And what about electrolytes, consuming salt, potassium, and magnesium? - But that thing only works though, if you're coming in at optimal hydration. And this is the problem, you have to flag this daily amount of water. Because if you're coming oh I drank two or three then you might need to drink 'cause you are way behind. So that like oh 12 ounces or so works, if you're already generally - And if people are drinking four to six glasses of water a day, but they're also drinking a then they're going to in most cases, right? - Well- a diuretic. - Okay. It kind of is, but it It's not the diuretic that It is still fluid consumption. So it's only a diuretic if it causes you to excrete more fluid than So if caffeine intake I don't have to worry If someone is drinking we're going to, or they're taking now the excretion is going So now we're going to 'Cause there's no fluid So in general, things like I'm not super worried You can count those towards if you want. So if you're like, I plus 20 ounces of coffee, and then this, like you're going to add that all up and you're going to be totally okay. So natural, you also have problems with synthetic forms of caffeine versus natural forms of caffeine. Natural forms are pretty okay. They'll be just fine. - Yeah. All that stuff. is where it gets tricky. - Always. Like always, right. So general, just eat real food and things. You're going to be just fine. The last piece to consider is your diet quality matters. Because the fluid content in So something like a bagel or something like a something in a huge range. Even meat is very high Like it's really high. Even after you cook it, there's still a lot of fluid in there. So if you're eating a wholefood, mostly wholefood-based diet, your endogenous hydration is just from your fluid. If you're eating a very over-salted diet, you're just in your food. So you have to factor all these things in, in fact, one of the things with folks that go from low quality diet, to a high quality one, is they're just peeing nonstop. Like what the hell's going on. I'm like, well you 60 additional ounces relative to what you used to have. And you've gone from 10 grams to two, sometimes one. Sometimes it gets very low are you salting your food? No. Okay. Well we don't have sodium intake then. Like we're way down. So everything that we're So let's assume someone's eating a pretty well balanced diet. They're drinking 16 ounces of in coffee and tea, things like that. We don't exactly know the one should intake. It is very clear, high are still associated with a lot especially in combination in combination with low food quality and other comorbidities. That's a very bad thing. You need to be very If everything else is okay, we're okay playing with a In fact, you're probably You're going to feel You just, it needs to be very clear. If you are overweight, highly stressed, and you don't have a lot and you have known comorbidities, you really need to pay It can be very nasty. So that being said, what we're generally going are you at least, can we or high sodium sweater? If so, there's a whole list that are going to have something like 200 to 400 milligrams per serving. And there's a whole list of these things. If you're a low sodium sweater, I'm probably going to send If you're a high sodium sweater, there's a lot of electrolytes supplements that are closer to six or 800, even a whole gram per single serving size. So you want to play with that. A very- if you're a low sodium We actually have an episode or is coming out soon if which is when you look at the basically your probability of really bad things happen to you goes way up as you get towards 10, 12 grams per day. - And this is translated to But also very low sodium - No question about it. it's not a perfect U shape. It's kind of a J shaped curve, or a kind of hockey But how would I know if I'm a low sodium or a high sodium sweater? - Yeah, so you can get- - Would I just kind of lick do it? Find a super friend who'll Same how- - No willing volunteers that I'm aware of, but would I be able to tell? - Yep. You can get sweat testing done. Actually you have a number of options. The kind of, the original one that most of us used in the is called Levelen. They'll send you out a little send it in the lab, and they'll measure it directly It's 150 bucks or- - Did they bin you into low, - They're going to do that, but they're going to tell you And they're going to actually tell you like what products and stuff - Do you do this with - [Andy] We have many times. Yeah. - You can do a more Gatorade has a patch. For 25 bucks you can get two of them. You can put that patch and download the Gatorade measure it right there and click it over, and they'll tell you exactly, but again, they'll tell you that are in your sweat, and kind of high, medium, or low. - Interesting. I do much better on a - [Andy] Most do. - But in my carbohydrate, I'm one of those that but I try and eat clean foods. So I'd notice, and I tend to So again, to reiterate the warning there that if somebody is pre-hypertension or has hypertension or obese, you really do need to be But many people seem to when they increase their sodium intake, and they're still in that healthy portion of the hazard ratio. - Most of the athletes, are going to go higher in salt. When they come, we're and we're going to add salt. Almost always. Very few times have I gone One of the exceptions that eat like 14-year-olds. And I'm like, okay, or 15 grams a day, 'cause - Garbage. - So we're like, we're going to come down, you're going to feel way better. All this bloating and everything Go down. You can do that, there are actually more, there are biosensors that are coming out that are not available yet, but they're coming very that are going to give you So you can pay attention to those. I haven't seen one and so I don't want to espouse but I know that those are coming from a handful of companies. An easy way to do is or wear some sort of headband or something and do your workout. Take it off. If you see a just huge white band, or if it's completely clear, Big white band, you're Completely clear, very little coming out. - That's great, and I can see people showing their - Yeah. - And obviously salt is so essential for so many physiological functions. You don't want too high or too low, but if you're losing more, it makes sense you would - Yep. in ounces, as a just Coffee and tea could be included in that, but that should probably be mostly water or things similar to it. And then during exercise the, how do I want to think about this again? Let's say I'm a high salt output, then I'd want to drink maybe - Yeah, okay. I'll do this easier. Let's talk about pre So what to drink pre, if you come in having hit And pre workout can be as little Basically a couple sips of water. Fine. If you come in poorly hydrated, then you maybe need to go more If you start off a session in a bad spot, you're not going to catch back up. Like you just, you're in trouble. Let's say you come and 500 milligrams salt before, A very easy rule. Pick whatever source you want, that's a couple of If you want Himalayan, that's Himalayan's actually a so it's not the best for this purposes. If you're a higher salt If you want to go choose an electrolyte, of which there are infinite, you can look on the 250 milligrams per or whatever happens, but around 500, pre 500, And then during is, thanks to you, my famous Galpin Equation now, All I did is I took the in general, the research two milligrams per kilogram body weight over 15 minutes seems to put Most people don't think about So can I just run that it's about your body weight Like that's all you have- - Body weight in pounds divided by 30. - Yeah, exactly, right. So you weigh 200 pounds, divided by 30, and that's the number of ounces. You're going to want to go - So I'm getting that amount throughout the training. And now in the weight room, 'Cause there are rest intervals. But people will need to do and that can cause a little if you're not used to it, is that right? You can learn to run with - A hundred percent. The gut is very trainable but in terms of fluid, which is another thing that but that's yeah, very trainable. It'll be uncomfortable initially, but you'll quickly get into it. The better solution for those And you might not even need any water. You could probably perform just fine. So the ones that don't have you really have to emphasize walking in. We have this problem with They have plenty of time to drink water, but they're so focused on the shot and there's a lot of variables coming up, once they hit their shot and they're moving on to the next one, they're thinking about, I mean, they're going over a Can I go 184 1/2 yards, can I go 186 yard, what's the slope of that, what's the wind up there? Like they're just thinking, even though they have 4 1/2 hours, so we have to make sure that they immediately get off the course. We go right into recovery, They wake up the next morning, we crush recovery. And now it's like, hey, if you can remember to drink this, great. If not, we're still fine. If it's not a big deal, and you have time like in a lifter, because I deal with that Like we can only drink so A couple sips over there. But we can't go mix and. Two mills. It's like, can you get oh shit, forgot like, So we have to take more of So start your recovery and then come in the next And then whatever you can that's fine too. If you're a higher salt sweater, instead of going 500, If you have a longer about of exercise, especially if it's hot or humid, then you might want to consider some salt in the workout as well. And 300 milligrams during It's enough. If it is a really long and you're going to lose pounds during it, you need a specific strategy. If you're going to lose less than a pound, you don't need to worry about it. It's not going to be enough of a detriment for you to really care. So that's kind of a rough rule. Now, if you're 200 plus pounds, maybe that number moves from But really the number we're looking at is 1% of your body weight. If you're losing more than we need to start caring. If it's less than 1%, it's not going to really pay - Okay, so for myself, because I don't wear any devices - It's a nice watch too. - Thanks. Yeah I do, very attached to this watch, or it's attached to me, I suppose. My body weight in pounds divided by two, that's what I'm going to try as a kind of baseline. And then my body weight- - Oh yeah. during the workout, that I'm going to try And then I definitely do better when I increase the amount of salt that I'm taking in anywhere from 500 to, 500 milligrams to a gram of salt, several times a day, actually. But I'm not eating that often, which leads me to my I prefer to train fasted or semi-fasted, meaning first thing in the morning or within an hour or two of waking. Obviously I've been Or having not eaten anything I just feel lighter and If that works for me, is is it better to eat - Personal preference. Easy, easy answer there. - Great. how hard you trained, what what sport you're involved et cetera, but in general, personal preference - Yeah, that probably handles 90% of the questions about that. Cold. Cold showers, ice baths, and I always preface this by saying there are not a lot of studies. There are some, but not a looking at cold showers, 'cause it's harder to of where people stand. So I would say if you have access to a cold immersion of some sort, great, but if you don't, cold showers would be the next best thing. The lore goes that if you do an ice bath or cold water immersion after strength or hypertrophy training, that you are short The lore also goes that And my interpretation of is that all that is probably true, but I have a hard time are so robust that it strength gains and hypertrophy, such that my stance for myself is try and do the cold exposure training away from the strength But if you can't do it any other time, right afterward probably isn't out of whack and prevent the improvements. Am I deluding myself? - A couple of caveats here. Number one, obviously I have a personal vested interest in cold. I've been around this being involved and being and being in this space a long time, I'm a big believer in cold. Especially cold water. - Deliberate cold exposure. - Hundred percent, right? So that being said, I do immediately after a hypertrophy session is getting pretty close to you just shouldn't have done the session. It is detrimental. - [Andrew] Good to know. - I wouldn't do it, I guess is If you're like hey, like I'm not super concerned and I want these other cold water immersion, fine. It's not zero, it's not How much does it cut you down? I don't know. We don't know, like that'd to come up with. Is it 1% reduction? No, it's more than that. Is it a hundred? Not even close. I don't know where it lands though. It's enough though for me to don't get in the ice - How long should I wait? - Well, in theory, the best would be four hours, because of what we talked about Immediately, you've got that takes seconds. You've got gene expression in this rough four hour window. After the genes have gone off and now you're just going through the protein synthesis process, and it's gone back down to baseline. So then reintroducing, is not going to disrupt that signal. That's a very non-scientifically founded because we don't know, What is very clear though is if you get off your workout, it's probably 10% attenuation of growth. I don't know, maybe more, Some people, if you look it's pretty bad. It's enough to where it's The benefits of the ice, I don't think now outweigh the benefits of - What about cold showers? - I don't think cold showers if you've been in both, we're not playing the same game here. - Right, an ice bath or up to the neck with limbs is a completely different - Especially also compared to It is not even the same thing here. So in general, I would say, I don't really care. Can you work it out so that you That would be my hope, right? I would actually prefer If you really had to do it. - Certainly will wake you up. - Oh yeah. - No we've played with that There's actually some fun stuff you can do with the endurance piece, with cold stuff. But it's totally not 'cause you're getting water everywhere, then you're going to jump on and it's just a giant mess. It's fun, but yeah, I if you can. That's actually, that's where Based on my intuition and experience, I don't think it's a good thing to do. Now having said that, that's mostly concerned Strength, it's not as clear. There are some data to show what actual block strength adaptations, but because of what we the mechanisms and the And so I don't think it's as big a concern for strength development, though I would still generally say, if you can get away with immediately after the workout, and you can at least wait a few hours, that's the better approach. Less concerned with strength, more concerned with hypertrophy, in terms of interference effect. If you can do it on off days, that's the place to land. - That's generally when I try to do it. - Yeah. throwing out an extreme case, 'cause I get asked that question a lot. What about the use of ice or cold shower after endurance training? - Okay, so a couple of You mentioned we don't have on cold water immersion overall. So a lot of this is moving. There have been some papers to show that cold water immersion can actually enhance And actually, even for to cause improvement in relative to not. It's not enough for me in that statement yet. I would like to see that repeated, not that I have a problem with the paper, the methodology that they but it's just, like this is a weird thing. So I want to see this repeated more often. So I have less concern post-endurance, 'cause there may be some benefit. I don't think you need to try to make sure you get and thinking you're going to We use ice a decent amount, when I can get athletes to do it. But this context is different. Number one, when we're in camp and we've got a world or something else, we've just pitched in a I am not concerned about hypertrophy. I am not even concerned I am now pushing towards recovery. There's a paradigm that with all of these things to understand, which is, are you pushing for When you're pushing for adaptation, you don't want to block This means less recovery. You're not going to feel as good. And you probably should When you're pushing for So if I'm in season and I had a pitcher I'm not trying to cause adaptation. I'm trying to recover because four days from now And I got to do this across 162 games. You're going to play five and you're going to have for a bunch of weeks in a row. I need recovery as fast as I possibly can. So if I'm blunting adaptation fine, I'm not actually trying to do something, I'm trying to optimize. If you spend all of your time you're going to have problems. So you need to be judicious about thinking is this a point in my that I want to cause adaptations? Or am I trying to optimize? You spend too much time again, you're going to have problems. So that's in generally for all those adaptations. - What about heat? - [Andy] Yeah. - When, and I'll frame because I'm sure there in which heat can short I mean, heat in excess can kill you. It can shut down fertility. It can, in excess, right? It can do all sorts of things, but it can also increase growth hormone, increase vasodilation, improve which can be very beneficial - Yep. - For the typical, for 75% when do you think heat is most useful? And here I'm referring to I'm not specifically because the data there are And I don't even know that, is they don't go hot enough - You and I have a similar taste there. - Okay, yeah. 200 past I'm not interested. - Right, and my sense about maybe I haven't seen the data, is that, but that a lot of people like it 'cause they like the way they It feels cool, it feels like Now infrared lights are actually for mitochondrial the good data, but infrared sauna to me it never goes hot enough. So I'm talking about 200 or Obviously do what's safe folks, and heed all the warnings not going in saunas, et cetera. - I assume you're lumping - Hot water immersion, When do you think most or hot baths to benefit their training and fitness and health? - Yeah, okay, I have a about this topic. One of 'em is, you never have to get hot. Everyone feels good. Like yeah, get in a hot bath, like, can you take more hot showers? Sure. Like no problem there, right. There are a handful of studies immediately post, and it seems - So after hypertrophy training, getting in the sauna for 20 minutes. - Yeah, whatever, whatever it needs to be. We don't have a good titration. What's the number minutes wise. We don't have a temperature titration. - Hot shower would be a second, - I would say it's a very weak- - [Andrew] To the hot bath. - I think a hot bath is to what you're looking for. It actually kind of goes back Theoretically, you're just So you're going to put more nutrients in, more waste product out, metabolic stress, all that stuff is going through. So that's the thought anyways, we're far from knowing, - Plausible, right. Absolutely plausible. Something people will do. Feels good. Let's say, with cold and hot, I want to caution you This is true across all physiology, but you need to be really from molecular to outcome. Very careful. So for example, it's easy to we put you in a hot bath or something, and we saw a growth hormone increase 300%. That is not going to in muscle size, right? In fact, 300% might result in a physical size, right? And the reason I'm saying this is because there's a lot that will misapply the mechanisms. And they'll grossly overestimate and what they do do, because they'll find something like that. I mean you know this, you've In the lab, if I see mTOR it didn't work. I need to see a 10 X it's even physiologically relevant. So reading that paper, reading you're like wow, it increased mTOR 38%. I'm like, well, that didn't work. And you're like, wow, that's huge. I'm like, that's not 38% So that's a very important because I'm going to talk about But I don't want people that this is some crazy miracle. The same thing with the sauna. In terms of general health outcomes, it is clearly a beneficial thing. This is a really good It is not a substitute It's a very important distinction. If the options are nothing Really, really good idea. If the exchange is though, because I did the sauna, bad. This is not a winning solution. - You and I know some maniacs that actually work out in the sauna. - Oh, we do. Yeah, kind of not far away. - I don't necessarily recommend that. That actually would probably But it can be worked- - It can be worked up to. - [Andy] Yeah. - Certainly. So I want, like every time I because it's just too easy well I think Dr. Huberman said, I don't have to work out. Like no, no, those words have never come out of his mouth. say that. And I'm definitely not If I'm in the sauna, I'm either and I'm trying to make it through. I tend to do three 20 minute So I aim for 60 minutes - I would be lying, - if I said I've never - Oh, so you're one of those. Yeah, people will do air squats, they'll bring the Airdyne bike in there. I look at the sauna as kind of - Totally fine. Going back to your original question. So potential the plausible aid, we need to see more research on that to really get a, do I need I think if you try it, very little harm. I struggle to see a downside. If you make sure your 'cause now you got to factor in the fact you just kicked out two or three pounds. If you at 200 plus pounds, if you're in the sauna for 20 minutes, I would imagine you can - Yeah, I usually, I hover And I drink a 32 ounce, it's water with a electrolyte solution that's pretty high salt afterwards. And sometimes during. And sometimes after that, if I'll go to sleep and I'll wake up in just feeling so parched. It's amazing how much water - Like a normal sweat especially in 20 minutes in a sauna, I would absolutely expect without like- - So I should be drinking more? - Probably. - Yeah, you're probably half - And you mentioned the after strength hypertrophy training, which makes sense for no official data there yet. What about after endurance training? Assuming somebody hydrates well enough and they're not overheated - Yeah. - [Andrew] Could also be of benefit. - Yeah. - Wow, so more and more what I'm thinking the framework here is in an ideal world, one would or heat exposure of some kind. Endurance training or and then do sauna, and then or at least four hours away or if you had to do it close to training, doing it before training. - Yeah, I love cold in the morning. We've actually run this experiment on professional athletes, where we do enough tracking which is a global metric of And you've probably talked problems with it, but roughly HRV in general, higher the So a low HRV is fatigue, right? Well, if you wake up and and then you get into ice, what's going to happen is you're The second you get out, that's which means roughly you've Surprising, you get in 30 degree water, you're going to go very However, if you continue to and up to two to three hours post, you will generally see relative to where you started. So it's back to this A really cold, shocking exposure will be a net result of throughout the day. In general. And we've seen that now across years, with athletes. So I think it's a great You won't need nearly as much coffee after spending three - 30 degrees is pretty darn cold. I was in the ocean this morning It felt, I didn't bring a thermometer, but it felt like somewhere in the low 50s. - But 50 and moving is really cold. - Yeah. - Yeah. That's really cold - That's right. The thermal layer that in cold water immersion, if they really, I was, joked that people like to look real stoic and tough when they're in there. Like they're just grinding But the stillness is actually If they sift around a little bit, you break up that thermal layer. That's where the real action is. - We've joked about this for years. Like do 50 degrees with now I'm impressed. 'Cause that is hard. You sit in 35 degree for But with XPT I've seen, how many hundreds of people on all age, that we've been able to get in 30-something degree 50 degrees with a whirlpool going, that number gets very small. - Yeah, and if you don't this should be reassuring to you, you can, some people say oh, you know, and ice can actually get pretty expensive, if you're doing a $50 ice bath - Yeah, it's- So you can fill your bathtub get in, but just make sure that and it's chilly. - Yeah. - And the studies on the very well, now well established increases that occur in cold water exposure, were actually done at an hour - Yeah. - And so it, you don't or an ice bath. But immersion is really The cold shower is kind of a, it's the, it's kind of the espresso shot version. - Yep, no it's sort of funny, 'cause if you look at most and you think, man, how do to spend 45 minutes in 55 degree water. 55 degrees is cold. Even if it's not moving and then they're going to not they're going to go an hour. And if you've ever done ice you know like all right it's not that bad. But man, that's a protocol. - Yeah, it's kind of a 'Cause it's one thing to get in for one minute to three minutes, and you know you're getting out. You could sing a song, you could do anything But 45 minutes to an hour is intense. Maybe they, I don't know. I don't think they paid the subjects. But anyway, that study was done - Yeah, you think- I forget where it was done. But anyway, they were hardy subjects. I want to talk a bit about So there are a couple methods and that I use, based on but mainly discussions like yourself, Brian McKenzie, The two that I'm aware of the nervous system and are grip strength, especially grip strength And the so-called carbon The ability to do a long controlled exhale after a few rhythmic deep breaths. Which I'm assuming taps to mechanically control the diaphragm, but also how well one is First question is, is or a combination of kind Are there any peer-reviewed Is your lab working on these things? And am I deluding myself, or are they useful? - It's not fiction at all. There are, with like CO2 tolerance, there's less published data. We've run a study in our lab, looking at the associations and what we call trait and state anxiety. And those are in the publication - [Andrew] Great. - So you can't really talk until it's out. But in general I'd say like there's a reason I'm still doing it. - Great. - Yeah, well assuming I mean, I think sharing as long as we highlight - Yeah. but I look forward to reading the paper. - Yeah, but, as you know, like you need to be careful before you've gone through that process. - Right, which is why I'm flagging this as these results are not yet passed through the peer review process. So you're hearing about - Yep. Having said that, there's I'm not the first one into that field. And so I'm very confident In terms of actual tracking recovery, the big picture is this. When we run through a full analysis, when we have an athlete go through our biomolecular athlete and we're going to look at Category one are what we And then we have hidden stressors. And then we have recovery capacity. Any time the total stress load you're either going backwards or you're reducing adaptability. Now you have levers to pull here. You can reduce stress intake, or you can increase recovery capacity. Right? What we want in an ideal situation is to be able to implement 'cause that's the driver of adaptation. Recover from that. Now we get the most adaptation, and adaptation being simply a change. Whatever change you want it to be. That's our gold standard, right? It's pie in the eye. Some people have endogenous differences, they just recover better. They don't. There are genetic factors. But let's talk about the If we go to the stress side of it, you want the throttle on the ones you want stress from, and as far off of the ones so that the adaptation comes And you're not burning gas in something you don't care about. Because you're just, you're taking that total Recovery capacity over there. So here's how you can do that. You can run some analytics and measure what we do with everyone, through these very to figure out what's hidden and visible, and then Once we have that blueprint, we can now figure out what we need to track, that of what we call performance anchors. So an anchor is something or below you, that slows you down. The analogy being, let's one of these amazing canyon roads, and I won't say which canyon we're in, so you can stay hidden here. And your car's going down and you want to go faster. Most people's first impulse is to hit the gas, the accelerator. We want to push. Well, that's fine, but if and you push the accelerator, you might go a little bit faster. But number one, you're to go a little bit faster. And two, you're burning your engine. You might, you're going to blow. The easier solution is just You're going to go faster Then if that's not fast enough, Everyone wants to just push down, right? More stimulus, more optimization. Bing, bing, bing, bing, here. Our first analytics are, where are these performance anchors? What's dragging you back? What's putting down the brake? I want to move those two or and now let's see how far you get. Oh, look at that. Your recovery capacity has gone way up. Your adaptations are happening faster now. And we can do more work because So we're trying to figure and we have a whole host biomarkers and surveys, and everything else that we go through, to find out what's there. So after we've done that, a few of these recovery to figure out what's globally happening. So that could mean grip strength. I have some folks who are going Others, we're going to look We may look at performance So you're going to do a And we're going to see where that's at. We've used the tap test before, which is how many times as fast as possible. It's a rough indicator of - In a say one minute interval. - Exactly. And this is apps you can do on, this is like you tap this It's going to say hey, and your average is 75. - I like that 'cause it taps into upper motor neuron capacity. - Hundred percent. things like, like grip strength obviously, I have to send the deliberate But at some point the lower motor neurons are going to be taking over Like the signal is probably one and done. Whereas the tapping is going to be repetitive sending of signals - Yep. So some of the athletes I work with, we track blood every day, we track ideally a combination of subjective and objective measures. Everything from how to environmental sensors of their bedroom. Full PSGs going on, running not an Oura ring, nothing against Oura, but like full analytics, and some of 'em it's as and what was your vertical jump, right? So we're going to put people We're going to figure out what's the lever that they need to pull, as well as what's their aptitude? What sport are they in? What can we realistically get away with? And some of them will and will do blood every day and urine and all kinds of stuff, and some of them it's a lot lower. - For myself, I'm not, I'm not a big fan of devices. I'm trying to wear the wristwatch. I tend to go off feel, which is not, it's not the ideal objective But part of my reasoning for this is my colleague from the psychology has done some studies where they've given, deliberately given people false So told people you didn't sleep very well, or they've told people and performance can be driven based on feedback, independent of how well Now that doesn't mean you can take someone that only slept two hours, 'cause of apnea, and tell and they're going to perform But you can take someone tell them that their recovery and their output is going to be worse. And that's my concern about not to name specific devices. But it's still unclear what the specific algorithms are to generate these recovery scores, right? And so many of the things aren't tracking sleep, - Not even close. heart rate and breathing, which are correlates of sleep And again, I'm not knocking those, I think the sleep have provided a forum whereby of getting good sleep. It's sort of like knowing the total chloric intake of I'm actually eating a - It's calibration. But often the case is that it's more. So I think for the typical person, I'm wondering whether or not, like myself, 'cause I'm not a competitive athlete or certainly not a professional athlete, competitive with myself I Morning pulse rate I If I wake out of a really stressful dream, I might relax a little bit and kind of get a range, and see if it's spiking I don't tend to measure grip strength, although I've heard you can - Yeah. - [Andrew] Old fashioned scale with the- - Sure. Or some other more technical if there's a low cost one. - Yeah, they're all low cost. - And then the carbon dioxide tolerance test. - So we haven't really talked My understanding of it is in through the nose, out through the nose, and then a big inhale, that's max exhale, and then time duration of and then stopping the where lungs are empty. Not necessarily as long as Did I get that right? - Pretty much. - Okay, and I guess we should - Yeah, those guys. - Yeah. - And the folks under Brian's umbrella for really establishing this When and how can I use the to gauge recovery upon - Yeah. - Number one answer is, So do it under the, like do it under the exact same That generally means 'cause that's when you're the most control, most stability. So yeah, like you would take wake up, get under take your metric. - [Andrew] Got it. - Going to be pretty good. - Got it. Sodium bicarb. - Yeah. Rumor has it, and data has it, that it can actually be a - Very effective. - Could you explain a little and how one might explore to enhance training output, in a couple of different contexts? - Yeah. So there's a handful of these ubiquitously effective Sodium bicarbonate's one of them, and it's a very ingenious Effectively, muscle contraction happens because enzymatic function occurs within a fairly specific pH range, right? So if it gets extremely And so whether you're running or anaerobic, or anything even ATP hydrolysis requires ATPases. Enzymes don't function well outside of this fairly special range. So what happens is generally fatigue, the sensations of fatigue some signal that hey, we're Or we're getting in the wrong range. You're not out of gas usually, You're not running low You're typically going to see signs, or feel signals of mostly being pH issues. That being said, what if we Enter bicarbonate, right? So without going too far into metabolism, effectively what happens and you're mostly breathing in oxygen, O2. When you exhale your breathing out CO2. So the difference is you've Well, all of your come in the form of long carbon chains. In fact, that's what a carbohydrate means. It is a one carbon molecule that has one water molecule attached. It's a carbon that has been hydrated. In the case of like glucose, blood sugar, let's say six carbon molecule, right? In terms of fat, which you're going to get most carbohydrates into fat, that is also a big long So whether you're getting your energy from fat or carbohydrate, you're So in other words, you've got six carbons and in this part of So when you break that carbon bond, so break one of those that's going to release energy. Just like if you had a pencil in here, and I snapped it and I broke the bonds that were to the next piece of graphite, 'Cause I put energy into Okay. As a result though, we've now had say five or six carbons chained together. We broke one off the end, but making the point. And now you have one free-floating carbon used that energy release to then go make your muscles contract. But now you've got carbon floating around. You can associate free-floating carbon with being at a higher acidic level. It's not going to happen. The only way that you're going is if your body says do we have that we can bind this to immediately? Yes we do. That carbon attaches to You can't just put CO2 in the blood because of what we just talked about. So you're going to bind it It's going to go through your blood. It's going to go into the lungs. It's going to go back into It's going to trans, go through and you're going to exhale. So you went from carbon to back into carbon, exhale. So inhaled, O2 plants go So they're going to breathe in the CO2, they're going to cleave off that carbon, stack those carbons together, and that's how they get larger. In your blood, those six carbon If we store that in your So we take a bunch of glucose In a plant, we call that starch. That's effectively what it is, right? So you take a bunch of stuck it all together, If you want to do it in the form of fruit, we take that starch like from the ground, you put it up through the tree, go all the way up to the break it up into these into little forms called That's why fruit has fructose in it, and that's why tubers and Basically starch in an Okay. All that to say, if that's happening and specifically of anaerobic glycolysis meaning the breakdown of typically in a very fast pace the downside of that We know that that's a problem, 'cause I started the conversation So what if we could Now you know how pH kind of works, I went and kind of double You don't want too much acid buildup. Then could we prolong and sustain energy in a more effective pace, especially in this anaerobic And again, that's important failure is not a result of It's a result of fatigue - Is that also true for - Uh, depends. the creatine phosphate system. - That can be an issue. It could simply be an You just don't have enough force, least you're not out of energy. You just can't muster enough force. You do enough reps, then it's Creatine phosphate though would be the big winner, depending. So to come back a little and then I'll, I'm circling All right. Well, the way that we produce energy is going to be in two primary categories, anaerobic and aerobic. Aerobic meaning with oxygen, In terms of muscle contraction, you're pretty much talking Now fat is going to be meaning I'm going to use fat from the entire body, roughly equally. So you're doing a sprint up a hill, and your hamstrings or are on fire. You're not just going to use the fat that's directly in those hamstrings. You're going to lose it It has to go through lipolysis, so it's in this stored It's got to get broken Blood's going to have get taken up into muscle, taken up through muscle Then we're going to have called beta-oxidation. So remember, carbohydrates is a six carbon molecule. Fat, if it's in the it is a three carbon tri, one, two, three, fatty acids. Three carbon backbone, and those fatty acids are just That's all it is, right? So we're going to break that move it up, move it into our mitochondria. You can't walk those things They're too big. So what you have to do is cleave them off into little chunks, and it turns out we break 'em so we call it beta, as in two, That can go through this little or tricyclic acid cycle, and you kick out a bunch You add two carbons, so as you're going to generate But remember, you can only if oxygen is available, because you have to be able to place those carbons onto something. Or acid gets up way too high, too fast. This is one of the reasons but it's very slow. It takes physical time to move from the back of your down your hamstring In addition, it's required If you need energy faster, to bring in the oxygen, go through capillaries, exchange through a tissue, et cetera. Carbohydrate, on the other hand, in the exercising muscle cell, and specifically in the cytoplasm. - As glycogen. - As glycogen in the store there. So what's going to happen initially, your initial demands for are going to come from the glycogen stored within the muscle fiber itself. It's just going to break right there, and you're going to be off the races. So you have the six carbon molecules, you're going to break it into two separate three carbon molecules. Okay, boom, that breaking very small but some. Now you're going to take those and you want to be able to oxidize them, 'cause that's your only next step. But in order to do that, you got to go those into mitochondria. So you got to break one So then you'll be back to just like you did with fat. That's going to go into mitochondria, and then it's going to go through two carbons, et cetera. But hold on. If you don't have sufficient oxygen, or sufficient mitochondria availability, and you're stuck at that what the do you do? You have problems, right? Now we have to say, okay, wait a minute. We have three carbon molecule, and we have a bunch of this acid buildup. Now acid functionally is hydrogen. That's what pH, potential hydrogen is what pH stands for, right? So if hydrogen is of muscular contraction, and then you're having what it can actually do is And those three carbon are called pyruvic, pyruvic acid, right? If you take a pyruvic acid put it on top of it, we now It's called? - [Andrew] Hydrogen peroxide. - Lactate. Bingo, right? That's what lactate, or So we've now built that up. So number one reason why lactate's it's actually preventing it and that it does a bunch But the point is, that That gets overwhelmed very quickly. What are you going to do with Well, if you started off you don't have very far to go before you've now gone into If you start off in a more basic, and basic I don't mean simple, and more alkaline, then that is no longer, now it just puts you back in your physiological range. So sodium bicarbonate, or a powder, or baking can simply put you in a more So this is something before your workout. You're going to delay, what we call delay the - And how would people start My understanding is you store bought baking soda. - [Andy] No question. - There's always a concern - Oh boy. - That it's a very effective laxative, sometimes an unwanted laxative effect. But how would one approach this before? Let's say I'm going to, I'm Mile repeats protocol that I'm doing that for a few months, and now I want to try the I'm well hydrated, I'm ready to go. When am I going to drink How would I make the solution? Let's say I take 10 ounces of water. - [Andy] Yeah. - How much bicarb do I want to, sodium bicarb should I put in there? Can we come up with a, Is it a teaspoon? - Here's how I'm going to tell you. You will thank me by starting lower. You can always go more later. - So a little pinch. - [Andy] You cannot go backwards. - How about I start - Fine. Half, honestly, half is fine. - Half a teaspoon. - It's totally fine. Slug that down. I read a study recently that showed that people will hit the at different times, but it's somewhere, if memory serves me correctly, somewhere between 60 and 90 minutes later. So I might want to drink - It can, it can be as low as 20. - Okay. So maybe as I get to the tracks, and so I'm going to do some - I say 45 minutes. - [Andrew] Okay. - That's just a very rough standard. But yeah, you're right, And you probably want to If not, just somewhere in the - Okay. And then the perceived and real the perceived and real - Yes. - I can do more work Will I feel less of a lactate burn? - Yep. for those listening, I realize that's a very a complex physiological process. Fantastic. Can sodium bicarb be used repeatedly for longer duration training? - Yep. - And if I were going to for whatever reason, maybe I'm doing circuit type training or I'm doing the super that you talked about before, where it's a little bit more Then maybe I'd sip that make sure there's a bathroom 'cause I do, I am aware pretty serious gastric distress. - It can happen very quickly. - Okay. Great, well it sounds like I really appreciate you it's one that doesn't get a 'cause it's been around, but sounds like it has some - Yeah, you know what's I mean, I get it, pop But still to this day, sort of your most effective general health slash performance supplementation, it's the same three to four to five. And it's because they work really well. - Without going into the in the practice, each one, 'cause I definitely want to nutrition and supplementation. - Oh yeah. - At some point. But I think we need a full couple of hours to get that, right. - Yep. If, as a teaser, would the other supplements that you for many people? So sodium bicarb, or baking soda is one. What are some of the other ones? - Yep, we'll go kind of in reverse order. Beta alanine is another very Similar idea to sodium beta alanine's going to come in, it's going to be converted and stored as what's called carnosine in the muscle. And carnosine is an intracellular buffer. So in other words, it's just going to delay So fatigue blocker, if you will. So very effective, very cheap, very safe. Well studied. The top one though, of all of them by far that has an incredibly It has, it is a cheap, it has a important magnitude of effect, and is effective across multiple domains of physical health and performance. And it is because of that It is in my opinion, without question, the Michael Jordan of all supplementation. And that's creatine monohydrate. It affects so many things. We typically think about it You've talked kind of, you the creatine phosphate system. But we have to realize the on creatine phosphate is and has not been for 20 years. It's in clinical. And it has everything from effects on the neurological system, to there have been associations to mental health and depression. And to be very clear, I am certainly not saying and cure anything. And I'm not saying it's going to stop you from depression or anything. But I'm saying there's a lot and there's a reason people are doing it. - Yeah, I completely agree. And if you're willing, I'd to do a discussion on or creatine in the nervous system. - Yeah. - That would be a lot of fun, and maybe we can do a in advance of that. - Yeah. a journal club is where and then argue about them, discuss them, and try and extract the kind if you will. I think, I've long been taking five grams of creatine monohydrate per day, mainly for the cognitive effects. - [Andy] Yeah. - I sense an effect, but I think there are a as you alluded to. You're not crazy. There's enough there. And in fact, there's enough mechanism now to understand the metabolic needs. People think, I'm a muscle guy, right, so I'm going to think to fuel muscle. But we forget cells, immune nerve cells, astrocytes, brain, all this stuff requires energy, and it's all going through metabolism. - Super interesting. We'll do the deep dive on that soon. I have a final question for you. You're involved in a really interesting, I think really cutting edge project, that I first learned about from you. I don't know of anyone else doing anything as forward thinking, and frankly as relevant because of my interest in and learning how to do that, avoiding stress and Tell us a little bit about what I believe is called absolute rest. - Right. So this is something that behind the scenes for a long time. And this is typically how high performance stuff works, right? People want exclusivity Effectively, what happened Cody Burkhart, I don't know - Down in Texas. - Yeah. - NASA. Yeah I do know Cody. - Wonderful, just down the road thinker. Everyone's interested in sleep, right? And for forever I would say, but everything available Nothing can tell you why And so we got together in Boulder and then I met some of computer science folks, Harvard MD, and some really impressive tech folks. And we were just thinking about an idea. And we came up with, and we started to realize We used first principle thinking, it's one of my favorite approaches. If you're not familiar Like that's just a is first principle thinking. And we just started to all the sleep tech is there, it's real, I don't need to convince Everyone's done that. You need high quality sleep, but how can I provide solutions? And with the people I work with, I can't just tell them or your sleep's down, or recovery. I need to be able to be like, and here's our solution. That's how our high So enter absolute rest. This is saying, okay, what are high effective, high quality sleep? Number one is psychology. So there has to be some sort are you not sleeping because of simply you can't control yourself? And you've done a wonderful Or if you can't quiet your if you wake up and you here are a bunch of things, right? So we have some screens that we can do, and there's some other This is a psychological issue. Let's say it's not, right? You're under control. And we have different which I'm happy to talk about. But it's not that. Okay, is it physiology? Which is node number two. Do we know what your Do we know what your What's melatonin look like? What's adrenaline, what's cortisol, cortisol being the primary driver? What is this relationship DHEA, So we're going to measure We're going to measure that we're going to measure that next morning, and even sometimes throughout sleep. And we're going to figure out, If it is, then we have clear corrections. If not, we're going to go is this possibly a pathology? So you have some sort of sleep disorder. We're going to run full So polysomnography. The exact same stuff you It's a sensor that's going to go on there measuring EEG and EOG, and we're going to have to see if your legs are moving, and everything else is going on. And we're going to get a full diagnostic. And if anyone's ever done this, the amount of sleep issues that they don't even realize So we're going to figure this out. One very quick example, we just did this with and he was having like 280 roughly of these episodes per night. And to be categorized as an episode, you have to meet these Oxygen saturation, ventilation et cetera, and he hit that And what this technology what position did all Well, in his particular case, most of them were happening, And so he bought a very that went on his back, that kept him from sleeping on his back. And we saw an 85% reduction the very first night. Now we did that. Testosterone eventually tripled after three months by And all we did is move him So huge improvements, where the problem occurred, We didn't have to change He had the basic hygiene and all that stuff. And he had his ChiliPad and all that to keep the thing cool. We couldn't fix it. Years, by the way, this took us two years of just trying everything. We're like, man. And it was just like, I wish, I wish we could get you to sleep better. And we, I pulled out every as soon as we built this [indistinct] I'm like oh my God, it's all. He's not overweight by the he's not iron deficient, doesn't have any of these that are associated with bad sleep. Supplementation, everything we've done, a thousand protocols. That fixed it overnight. So if it's not psychology, and it's not pathology, then the last one that people don't have any And so what you don't We can sit right next to your bed. You just plug it in, you And it's going to run So it's going to look at the It's going to look at the It's going to look at the These are things that are It's going to look at and possible allergens and that are closing your nose off, and now you're mouth breathing, I'm sure, on the previous It's going to look at your CO2 cloud. So we've talked, we've already You're inhaling O2, but Well during the day, and you have quite a bit of force But at night, it's just barely So what happens is, CO2 tends to cloud up and build around your face, and then you end up re-breathing that CO2. And this can cause a large because you're simply Whether you're fully awake or just kick out of a sleep stage, the CO2 around your face is a big issue. This stuff has all been known, by the way, with the astronauts for a very long time. It just hasn't translated into the, to the commercial spaces. Of course, gone to our So we can measure that as well. And then we can figure out we can actually come into a bedroom and build an entire sleep and control the entire thing. But for most folks, the run full diagnostics and check off is this environmental is there something else? - So is this a commercial device that people can eventually access? - It is now. - So where can people learn - Absoluterest.com. - Very cool. And just for our full disclosure, I wasn't aware that you had what you'd mentioned. I always like to ask people, I always love to ask what are And this sounds like - And just to be really clear, that's not like something That's landed. - That's landed. - Great. Well, and that's one of the is that you're willing but you always say it's speculation. But in general, you seem where if you're going to be if you're going to make a statement, there's got to be quite a bit behind it. You're not going to allude we might be able to do this. Or in five years. You're a very data-driven kind of guy. - Yeah, well, the people I work with, we need answers, right? We don't have that timeframe. And we typically have like, hey, we start the season in four weeks. - Yeah. - Well, as I said, I but it is but one of the I think the listeners on the basis of today's discussion, what a enormous wealth How clear and potently you And also how you can take and still distill it into protocols that ought to work for 75% which is an immensely So for me and from the thank you so much for taking I lose track of time, which Several hours to take take a break from research, take a break from the of your life, and really share with us all this incredible information. I'm so, so grateful. - My pleasure, man. I'm glad we finally got to connect. This has been a long time in the making. - It has, and I'm going to to my training. I'm going to start doing and interval type training. I'm going to start moving when I do heat, I'm going to start moving when I do cold. I might even start throwing very small amount of sodium before I train. And listen, Andy, Professor Andy Galpin, thank you ever so much. - My pleasure. - Thank you for joining with Dr. Andy Galpin. If you'd like to learn and learn further information from Dr. Galpin, please at Dr. Andy Galpin. You can also find him on Dr. Andy Galpin, spelled with one L. And if you're learning from, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero Please also subscribe to the and on Apple you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions or or you have suggestions that you'd like to see me interview, please put that in the We do read all the comments. In addition, please check at the beginning of today's podcast. That's the best way to We also have a Patreon, it's And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. During today's conversation, and on many previous episodes we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't many people derive for things like sleep, and many other features of our physiology, and mental functioning. There are some important when considering supplements. One of those issues is the For that reason, we've partnered because Thorne supplements have the highest possible standards with respect to the quality of If you'd like to see the you can go to Thorne, slash the letter U slash Huberman, and there you'll see the and you can get 20% off If you navigate further through that website, you can also get 20% off that Thorne makes. If you're not already on Instagram and Twitter, please do so. There I discuss science some of which overlap with the content of the &quot;Huberman Lab Podcast&quot;, but much of which is distinct on this podcast. Thank you once again for with Dr. Andy Galpin, and as always, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]