- My friend Dia once confessed that when she makes mac and cheese, she doesn't follow the rules. She said, I know you're supposed to use a big pot of water, and lots of salt, and the water has to be boiling before you can add the pasta, but I just put the and I cook it, and it's always fine. Prove me wrong. So, of course, I went to my team and we kicked the idea around. And then they let me loose in the kitchen to see how many pasta rules we can break. (upbeat music) It's easy to think of pasta the pasta and the sauce, is about how those two What you want is one, Two, a sauce that clings, And three, a marriage Does achieving these goals into a large pot of water What happens if I use less water? What if that water isn't But before we get to that, a Most pastas are made by with holes in it, called a die. The die determines the shape of the pasta, and, traditionally, but more and more manufacturers are using Teflon coated dies. Dough slips through a and the resulting pasta is smoother than pasta extruded through a bronze die. Teflon dies reduce wear which is great for these companies, but the resulting pasta and it sloughs off less which really isn't great for us. Okay, let's cook some pasta. (upbeat music) Let's start with a tried and true method, boil the pasta in plenty of salted water. Here at Cook's Illustrated, that works for pretty much any pasta. Bring four quarts of water and one tablespoon of table That's enough salt to And that's enough water, even if you're cooking which take up a good and have thick walls that are gonna take some I've got a pound of spaghetti here. And now that this water is As these noodles cook, from starches released by the pasta. Now the cook time and the type will affect how much starch is released. Whatever its appearance, and sometimes even critical, for bringing the pasta and sauce together. If you want a reminder to just leave a measuring I like to cook my pasta till You can taste for and you're feeling for just Or you can do what I do, and then look for a tiny dot of uncooked dough at the center. Now, when I combine the pasta and sauce, that pasta's gonna finish cooking, absorbing some liquid from the sauce. The sauce is gonna tighten up, but that's where the pasta water comes in. I can thin out the sauce And the salt in the water to drastically adjust the seasoning even if I use a fair bit of pasta water. This ratio, four quarts of is a great default. You need a large pot and you should expect it to get that water to a rolling boil. Your pasta cook time is gonna be anywhere between four to 15 minutes, And this ratio is especially that's got lots of body and cling and it doesn't need help from I'm talking sauces like or a creamy alfredo. But not all pasta sauces have this consistency How do we give them the (upbeat music) Pasta alla Gricia is one of It is all about pecorino cheese, cured pork, and black pepper. It's also a dish where is really critical. Now, Annie Petito's Gricia Guanciale is cured pork jowl. And if you can't get your hands on this, you can substitute pancetta. It's gonna get you that We're gonna render this out in a Dutch oven in a little bit of oil. And pulling that fat out of this guanciale is really important. That fat, it's gonna flavor our dish, it's gonna give it that porky flavor. It's also gonna give the While this guanciale is going, I'm gonna start cooking my rigatoni. And instead of the usual I've just got two quarts in here. This will give us super which is just what we need for bringing this fatty sauce together. I would normally also use because what I want is not saltier pasta liquid. But because this guanciale is so salty, I'm gonna skip this salt I'm also gonna set a This is gonna help me save (upbeat music) We're done. Alright, let's drain this. (upbeat music) This is just gonna need a few stirs to bring up any fond from And then we'll just let it simmer. You know how fat and water don't mix well? The starches in our pasta And between them and the tiny we're actually gonna be able to combine to form a rich creamy sauce. This sauce is looking nice and emulsified, so I'll turn this heat And the guanciale. And just give this a nice stir and make sure everything Now we get the pecorino. And I'm just looking and that sauce to thicken slightly. So it usually takes about a minute for that cheese to heat up and melt and that sauce to tighten up. And you just got to be patient. You don't want to be 'cause you could break the pasta. This is looking pretty good. I'm going to shut off the heat. And I want this a little saucier, so I'm gonna add a little bit Yeah, that's it. We're done. Let's eat. The nice thing about using less water is it takes less time and energy to bring that water to a boil. Your pasta cook time though, I really like this method for because that starch is gonna Other dishes where you might want to use just two quarts of water are carbonara, aglio olio, or cacio pepe. Alright, let's give this a try. Hmm. These bites are so porky and savory. There's that nice bit of It's delicious. And the best I spent a lot of time and if I didn't have all that sauce would've kind of while we were chatting. But it's not. It's awesome. So we've added pasta to And we've added pasta What happens if we add pasta (upbeat music) Starting your pasta in cold Harold McGee, Kenji they've all played with this method. And I'll cut to the chase. It works great if you're interested in saving water, time and energy. In fact, I wish I had when I developed my Because not only do it actually produces the Here's how it goes. I have eight ounces of This is one and a half And last up, a quart of water. Now, I'll just bring that The one thing you need to keep in mind is once that water gets hot, the pasta's gonna stick together. So what I want to do is wait until I see steam At that point, I'm gonna give it a stir and then a couple more stirs as that water comes up to a boil. Once it gets to boiling, I don't have to worry And now that this has I want to turn the heat down and cook this pasta at a simmer. There's two reasons for that. One, I don't want it to boil over. And two, I don't want to lose We're not starting with very much. You can also do a cold You just need to use a 12 inch skillet. So while that pasta cooks, and lightly smashed garlic heat that gently, and let the garlic flavor I'm also going to whisk together salt, pepper, and parsley. Pasta's cooked and it's I'm gonna use that same setup I had before with the colander and the bowl so I can hold on to all that pasta liquid. I'm just gonna ditch this garlic and we'll put this dish together. The tubetti goes back in the pot. And then the lard goes in. And then last up, our Now, this isn't much of a looker, but wait till you see what happens when we get the starchy pasta liquid in. I want to add that pasta water And I usually need about which isn't very much, but that's okay because we got a lot of starch in this little amount of water. I think one more spoonful and we're there. (soft music) That cheese is fully melted. (upbeat music) Look at how that egg and It's just lightly coating the pasta. And you can see the sauce on the side is silky deliciousness. Hmm. This is so good. It's like mac and There's a hint of garlic. That sauce is nice and silky. It clings beautifully. It's awesome. A cold start is a great that are gonna be combined with sauces that are low on water, So the next time you want to it's gonna benefit from a cold start. Also, Teflon cut pastas, they're gonna benefit from a cold start because they slough off On the other hand, if you've or something that just you'll want to begin with more water, so hot start two or four quarts of water. There's no one best way to cook all pasta. So the next time you're think about the shape, and choose the appropriate method. Tell me about the pasta rules you break. Do they work? Do they really Let me know in the comments below. Links to the recipes in this video are in the description below. And while you're down there, be sure to hit the like button For more recipes and techniques, check out cooksillustrated.com. Look at how silky that looks. I'm so satisfied with myself. - [Person Off-Camera] It's my - Did I do good?