(bright music) - [Presenter] Players end up in video games, oftentimes things that the game creators We've talked about this a lot, so today, we're on part three, developers didn't think anyone Starting off with number 10, let's talk about &quot;Skyrim&quot; The humble bucket, is there anything it You can put it on a guy's And if you do get caught, well, you can actually just fly away to safety. Seriously, it requires to get it to work, but a bucket can actually take To start your bucket flying journey, first, you need like a bucket The standard open top buckets you throw on a shopkeeper's With one secured, which I got from a farm all you have to do here right side up in a flat open space, and then stand on it in a particular spot, and then hold the interact button. It's an inexact science (gentle music) but as long as you're and grabbing at the correct spot, then you'll start You can even control the trajectory of the bucket if only by a little bit. Yes, it is sort of pointless to do on PC with console commands anyway, but it still works on every version of the game as far as we can tell. I managed to pull this off so it's open season for of the many versions of (gentle music) Next, overt number nine, in the great &quot;Dead Space&quot; This is one that the developers probably thought some people would try, but they may not have realized just how powerful it would be, because this thing can trivialize the game even on impossible difficulty. So, the setup is simple. Just have the line gun and find something you and any throwable object will do. Pick it up to then see Then, drop it and use the secondary fire from the line gun on the Do everything right, which is fairly easy if and you've got an incredibly that can decimate almost (tensed music) (laser blasts) These lasers are strong normally, but they're meant to be stationary, so enemies only tend to But with kinesis, you can It'll let you clear out entire rooms and barely use any ammo in the process. Just make sure you put the because this thing hurts you I'm glad this is in the game because it encourages player We all try weird stuff in games and sometimes it really (laser blasts) Next over at number eight, here's another example of a thing that's partially intentional but clearly broken in a good way. There's a lot of broken stuff you could do with enough time and patience But even for this game, Salvador's whole power is Every character you can play that they can activate after a cool down, and Salvador's of course, lets That's good and all, but what makes it go from to being able to single in near seconds, is that Sometimes it's not. Just because you get the benefits of holding two guns at the same time with all their passive but the part where certain guns that spawn additional projectiles, and the game uses the damage values of the gun in your hand is. Now, if you're holding and it's fine, but if you're and in your main hand you've which does exponentially then that's when things get real busted. You don't even have to fire the rocket. Just use a good bullet hose weapon while holding the rocket launcher and suddenly you've got like an infinite rocket that does so much damage that are meant to be fought and take like 10 minutes you can kill in seconds. (character evil laughs) It's absolutely ridiculous, but it isn't something you can You do need the right weapons to really see the benefits of this thing, and that only comes from Still, it's a pretty amazing glitch or exploit when all the stars align and you have everything It can be really satisfying Now, at number seven, let's talk about &quot;Palworld&quot; This one is probably unintentional, but maybe the developers left it in just for fun or they But this trick is so easy to pull off that it almost feels intentional, but it's just borked, just janky enough to So, the actual trick here is simple. There's not a lot to it. Just throw a pal sphere at a critter, and then while it's capturing, If you manage to nab the pal and you're standing on top of then you'll get thrown - [Character 1] Whoa. (game interface chiming) (bright music) (game interface chiming) That's really all there is to it. Actually climbing on top can be a little awkward with the jumping, but if you know exactly where to aim and when to press, then and the effect is almost always the same. As a tool for exploring this is a handy little trick and I know we compare and I really just like to and get flown across the land hundreds of feet up in the sky only to suddenly come crashing down. Don't mind me. I guess I Anyway, next at number six, if you mostly found the box in &quot;MGS 3&quot; to be kind of pointless then think again, because it's actually one of the most powerful If you try using it the then yeah, it's sort of useless. You'll get spotted a lot. But if you instead just slap it on and start running everywhere, then no one will catch you ever. So, for one thing, when you're in the box, you actually move faster up slopes. Normally, Snake's movement is impaired when walking but with a box, you can just as if you were on flat to move at full speed through (wind blowing) - [Character 2] Hmm? (wind blowing) - [Character 3] What's that box? (wind blowing) - [Character 2] Hmm? (wind blowing) - [Character 3] What's that box? - [Presenter] The other is that instead of alerting they just want to investigate, which makes sense if you were in the middle of the jungle, but it's just a little goofy when you're clearly just a dashing around two feet Seriously, the box completely trivializes And the closer you are, As long as you're able of sight pretty quickly, guards will never spot you no You gotta be good, but and utterly broken if you're slick, in a way that cannot be intentional, because if you try to play then you're actually more That's the whole trick of this thing. (wind blowing) - [Character 2] Hmm? (wind blowing) - [Character 3] What's (wind blowing) Just my imagination. (wind blowing) - [Presenter] Next, overt You ever get so annoyed at a merchant that you just wanna Well, with this trick, you can, and you should because it's to cycle their inventory without having to wait two So, what you do is you until they run out of money, and then quick save, and (character laughing) (first slams) - What do you think you're doing? Never should have come here. (gentle music) - [Presenter] So, they'll aggro on you, but don't worry about it. Just reload your save, and then boom, the merchant is back to normal and with a fully restocked inventory, so you can just continue So, why does this work? Well, the thing with &quot;Skyrim&quot; it resets a bunch of game to keep track of absolutely They cut a few corners here, it'll reset the merchant's hostility and also their inventory too. I guess the game just like about an NPC when it has to, I guess. So, the important thing to keep in mind here is Don't be like a goof It defeats the point of the whole thing. Even if sometimes they still reset and become non-aggressive, How that works, I have no idea. It is just the inner workings - Damn you! (tensed music) (blade slashes) - [Presenter] Now, at number to abuse the way a game If your car gets smashed up in &quot;GTA 5&quot;, instead of wasting your time to fix it, just switch Then, switch back and hey, presto, it's (tensed music) Okay, look, it's not always perfect. Sometimes the windows are still blown out, but everything else is fixed. Seriously, that's all you have to do. Just be sure to fully transition of a new character fully, And don't wait too long either because your original guy might just reappear with a This is another one of those things where developers obviously knew about it. This is an intentional decision not to keep the state of each They just probably hope that It's not that powerful all said. You can only swap characters So, during missions, this so it's limited, but still, that you really like, then this is a fast and easy In the early days of and you couldn't get So, if you've only played &quot;GTA 5&quot;, this doesn't seem like a big deal. But if you've been you know this is a nice Now, at number three, people have managed to pull in &quot;Bloodborne&quot;, specifically which lets players generate a random seed So, the dungeons are randomly generated, but through some quirk of the programming, people have actually like access parts of the game and find enemies that were It's pretty wild that they to access these game files How it works is far too complex for us to fully understand or describe, Cut bosses and secret but what people want are exploits here, and this is the ultimate a certain chalice dungeon that lets you farm tons of Blood Echoes, which is the game's version of souls, so money and experience without having to do anything. The glyph to access is CUMMMFPK and the So, you enter the dungeon, you walk forward a few steps, and suddenly you're flush with echoes. (tensed music) Now, just leave, do it and again until you're satisfied and you got everything you need. Buy up all the healing or get end game levels right at the start of It's seriously that easy. How the dungeon works is that spawns under a pendulum trap. The hunter is so far away from the player that they have no animations, but their hit box still works, and are killed by the trap every time. Because they're a high level hunter, they drop tons of Blood Echoes. The trick here is to just and if you move forward too quickly, then the hunter will be in range and actively avoid the traps. So, just stay in the starting area and you'll get tons of Blood Echos for doing literally nothing. It's awesome. Now, down at number two, if you've messed around you probably are aware You type in the code to get the item. &quot;Stardew Valley&quot; draws items from its virtual inventory Although there's a pretty you could take advantage of to get some of the rarest items in the game without resorting to full For some reason, if you name something after then whenever someone says that name, then the item spawns in your inventory. Players often take advantage and chickens after certain it even works if you name your So, like if you want to get or prismatic shards, just for that thing in brackets, and whenever someone says your name, which is pretty frequent, then it'll cause one of those items to just appear in your inventory. Just find someone in town and you'll get an infinite supply of whatever that item was that you need. It's such a weird little trick that the developer recognized, but they were kind enough Seriously, if you're that you're naming your main guy [74], then they might as well Now, finally, down at about the &quot;The Simpsons: I'm gonna be honest here, I &quot;The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run&quot; is just a game full of fun little exploits on a sliding scale of helpfulness. This one is really only going to be useful for speedrunners, but it's that the developers So, on Mission 7 of and talk to Carl in front The mission he gives you is simple, just to drive from the parking (birds chirping) - Hey, Homer, you look of your trademark adventures. - Danger, Mr. Burns. - [Presenter] It's a long race to go in a full circle but there's a way to give See, when the mission starts, the doors to the power plant are closed, so you can't just go that way. But there's a way to get back there. Instead of talking to just take your car and and then talk to him in there. During the cut scene, it'll still look like you're talking in the parking lot, but then when the mission starts, you'll be inside behind the locked doors. So, now, you can drive directly from here to Mr. Burns' house in It's really just a You wanna get behind the and then start the mission there instead. (jolly music) That it even works is awesome. Most games would just lock no matter where you So, sure, the Carl Skip is nice, but then there's the Carl Skip Skip, which actually lets you It's a skip for a skip, It's real, look it up. But maybe we'll talk because those are 10 more didn't think anyone Like I said, there are so we'd love to hear If you got any weird stories But if you like this video and you like just talking clicking the like button helps us out. We really appreciate that. But as always, thanks for watching. We'll see you guys next time. (jolly music)