Right now, Saudi Arabia is burning building an absolutely insane sci Billed as the future of human centered inside of a futuristic hub It's called Neom. Neom has been getting a ton of media renderings of planned features shaped horizontal city, and an upside down But I have to say, even after seeing Which is why I've decided titled. Neom is currently the biggest construction which is impressive considering that However, the plan for Neom is to become with their own fun vibe that defy Take a look. This is Oxagon the world's a year round mountain destination. Aquellum is built inside the mountain. The line! A 500 meter high. 200 meter 170 kilometer Alright But I mean, who among us Now, there's been a ton of reporting one of my favorite pieces so far, comes Boyle, whose recent dive into Neom's I invited Patrick to walk us through urban planning. Hi Dan Neom truly is an amazing project. Included in it is a city called The Line, meters wide, but 170 kilometers long. This is quite an egalitarian plan, will have a bad commute There are other great ideas in the city giant artificial moon which will livestream There's going to be a beach There'll be schools with holographic a digital asset A Hyperloop, mixed reality, autonomous taxis, robot cage fighting a-- sport Robot Maids, vacuum cleaners, And best of all, 24 hour surveillance with face recognition cameras and drones, AI powered health care systems But for me, it'll be all about the robot cage You just can't get that stuff in places Hell Half of the time, neutral flying autonomous taxi around Neom is clearly the place to be. Back to you, Dan. Right-o, thanks, Patty. But why build all of these robot beaches like you're a middle eastern Walt Neom is the brainchild of Saudi MBS is the autocratic leader journalists, his big thing Right now, Saudi Arabia is the world's It also owns the world's vision. 2030 is a grand economic plan to diversify the world transitions off of fossil fuels, The idea is to diversify the Saudi economy in a bunch of different stuff. US tech stocks sports leagues and yes futuristic sci And this is all with the goal where tourists will flock and foreign shop for decades to come. Now, Neom is the keystone to this plan, Atlantis will follow in the footsteps non-Democratic city states without much land or resources, with business friendly laws if you look at a place like Dubai Singapore or China, Hong Kong, that are actually non-democratic forms Quinn Slobodan is an author and historian Capitalism, argues that when it comes to another increasingly important way a patchwork of small economic zones politics don't matter as much as corporate They are also the places that have been growth, high revenue producing parts And they're looked at with greater some people on the conservative right Neom as part of this big vision, 2030, we're going to sort of kickstart in Saudi Arabia, one of the things he said is we're going to build this new city and That city is none other than the line sprawling megalopolis. You're going to be able to invest in Neom, Like a company. It'll also be a free trade zone laws, completely separate Which is attractive for global investors horny for things like free trade zones not so horny for things like Sharia it's a sort of one of these ideologies whether a total privatization to health to border could all be somehow done something that previously had That's right. Everybody. Science fiction business cities with CEOs that prioritize investor interests Hell to the fuck yeah. And it's not just Neom. cities with private governments Quinn writes about are starting to happen in reality, years after being like in Honduras, where firms, including Peter Thiel and Marc and special economic zone called Prospera What I wouldn't give to spend a day guns and drinking Red stripe and peeing in this context, Neom's a good looking pitch from your social media accounts before you've actually made less like how you build a city, well, I mean, a lot of it I think hype world of Silicon Valley with a cool name, make a good pitch deck and then, If you look at the things there was going to be supposedly There was going to be They were going to have this sort of super high tech and despite many of the good intentions turning sci fi into reality is really hard MBS once said that to cost about $320 billion by 2030. So far, and most people think And maybe it would seem worth it if the desert was littered we were promised, but so far, Construction has only really started developments that Neom has announced, But the line's first phase miles, and its long term goal remains Meanwhile, estimates were to have 1.5 and now that's been downsized But this hasn't stopped the kingdom also pushing out thousands of natives and murdering one tribal leader Neom even has plans to host at the Trojena, a mountain resort So, like the Who, who told MBS on paper, we meet again. You pencil pushing rattlesnakes. I knew there was something evil But the question is, be enough to carry them into that future, all the interesting things, the frankly important things and turn it into basically the wealthiest people in the world. And I think that given of travel of everything it will probably just end up being like for rich nepo kids This does feel very Fyre Festival. Totally. Yeah. And, folks, I don't want to stand here and act like I mean, who wouldn't love or Aquellum swimming on the chemically and catching an opera at Utamo room by nightfall Or maybe you spend a night at your pied I certainly would, but this entire operation ripped from Silicon Valley's playbook. Talk a big game about improving the world and humanity first, and figure out What matters and seeing how high this rocket can fly MBS, I like your style, compadre. But as an early Theranos investor, I feel like I've heard this song before, Although, if I'm wrong, you know where to find me. And as Neom continues to expand, the Saudi to announce its latest city new Jersey. New Jersey is a dynamic, sexy overflowing with innovation In a recent deal made with the U.S. government, America will slice out In return, the U.S. will get Cristiano Ronaldo. Hello, truthers, interrupting Dan Toomey, was recently on a game show called The Getaway, In a desperate attempt to pay back my credit card debt, across the American desert, through a series of games but instead left me Nebula is the internet's independent home documentaries and even films show Jet Lag and an upcoming documentary Neat! episodes of The Getaway and you can subscribe to Nebula through For only five bucks a month and in between episodes of The Getaway, Good work to watch Thanks, everybody.