There's a fearlessness that kids have. As expressing every part of who we are through and this is our natural state, but at a Jeffrey Dyer and Hal Gregerson say that if you questions and wondering how things work but by the because they quickly learn that teachers value the This idea that there's one right answer colors a certain way that life is supposed to unfold then you get a job and work your way up the ladder think 'maybe I'll finally get to do what I really work for a lot of people. It assumes that there play and that we're supposed to work so we can do something entirely different called having fun. Peter Gibbons works at an awful company called the fact that he works in a cubicle, the fact point out every mistake he makes, and the meaningless. His neighbor Laurence asks &quot;what &quot;Nothing I would sit on my ass &quot;You don't need a million just look at my cousin, he's It's a funny scene because it shows that Peter wrong question; anyone can do nothing. Having fact that his life is empty of anything that problem is that he's trying to run away from his million dollars,&quot; a much better question to ask to escape from?&quot; We spend about 35 hours a week 84365 hours in a lifetime; that's one third of when you find a way to do the things that truly play you'll eventually become a master at it. Once opportunities that otherwise never would have if you don't like what you're doing now you can that to happen we have to recapture that same that natural state where we had the courage to and to approach life with a sense of play. In the 1970s Yoky Matsuoka was a young girl fell in love with tennis; almost right away she with the rest of her life. She had a routine where and then do her homework on the train as she rode Her mind would drift off solving puzzles and and she was really good. By age 15 she became a Japan's rankings. Her parents decided to move to it was a huge move. She says that &quot;when I came didn't say anything for 3 months.&quot; But just as hit with a series of ankle injuries that ended professional tennis. She was was absolutely country and pouring her heart and soul into a what to do next. There's one certainty in this will deal with loss. You lose your job, you have will feel like your world is falling apart. But you can control: you can choose the story you McAdams says that we make sense of the world and experiences into a life story. This is called a beginning, middle, and end, and so the way how you perceive the present, and how you imagine you're the person you are today your story guides Kurt Vonnegut said that there's only five basic type is what he calls &quot;from bad to worse.&quot; This is one terrible loss after another until finally Think of Walter White in the show 'Breaking Bad.' He seems to have the same problem over and over needs to overcome it. He ignores advice that could of the moment, the story he tells himself is one who've done him wrong. And even though he has all chooses a self-destructive path instead, and so in The second type of story is what Vonnegut calls the same way. Here the hero suffers a huge loss; a hole; it's a dark place but it's here that he incredibly valuable about himself that he never hole is the hardest thing he's ever done but he on the next simplest step he'll eventually and more resilient and the next time he won't get this story is that it places the hero as an 'Agent the hole but it's up to him to climb out, and so force that directs his own path into the future. in what psychologists call the locus of control. know it or not and if you do nothing to change it crisis you try to run away from will eventually you can shape how the rest of it unfolds. Yoky her tennis career was over; she could either feel she could see it as a chance to redirect the to retell her story in a new empowering way and exists in all of us. How do you find it? Professor things tend to fall into one of two categories: Conceptual innovators are people who tend to go they make big bets, and they often have their early prodigies like Mozart who gain early fame are exceptionally rare and there's always the risk like Yoky did it can be absolutely devastating if innovators are a lot more common; they're one big bet. Instead they find their path by a series of little bets that slowly build until in extraordinary success over time. The key with to change their life and you don't have to be a in the University of California at Berkeley; she the electrical engineering program. Almost right students are men and they start out by tinkering Yoky had done none of that. One day she came up tennis with her; she called it her tennis buddy. rules of the game and have enough coordination to an exciting idea but it also seemed silly and professor would think. This would be her first with him. According to Peter Sims the author of small discoveries,&quot; whenever we're thinking of can seem so wide open that it fills us with but one of the best things you can do is make one to go. It's based on what's called the 'affordable that if you decide in advance what you can afford of failing is low but the potential rewards are you might take a hit to your ego, but you become Yoky Matsuoka it would open up a brand new world her idea to build a tennis robot she half expected he invited her to join his graduate robotics lab. that she would graduate and go into the PHD into the artificial intelligence lab. It was run the field. Brooks was working on a humanoid robot, complex parts of the machine: the hands. She was of design, how it could hold and manipulate things Was it somehow possible to replicate all this in was still very disappointing. Most engineers tried as they could but this also made it hopelessly clumsy and lacked mobility. But Yoky looked at the at the anatomy of the human hand and studied what that could act and respond like a real human hand countless hours. She was learning what it meant to her designs were incredibly life-like, years ahead felt there was a gap in her knowledge; she could how we move and she saw the massive potential how it could help people with brain injuries live her understanding of the human brain was limited; back to school to gain another degree, this time would become the beginning of a brand new field that combined Neuroscience with robotics. How Dweck is a psychologist at Stanford University at why some people seem to welcome challenges and according to her research most people lean in one and the growth mindset. The fixed mindset is the are set in stone and there's nothing you can do to have a setback and whenever you fail at something of this people with a fixed mindset will do they'll give up more easily when they do, because be changed then there's no point in trying. intelligence and ability are things that expand believe that learning to overcome obstacles and because they see challenge as precisely the problems to solve and they persevere long after growth mindset throughout her life: how she went in electronics or coding, even though she was a and later on when she hit another limit in her though she had no background in it. In one study brain is like a muscle that grows stronger the learn new things tiny connections in the brain challenge your mind to learn the more your brain or even impossible become easy. The students who tests than another group of students who weren't. your life turns out. If you imagine two kids with same abilities but one has a growth mindset and how their lives take shape over time. Dweck found things. If they had a low grade on a test they'd This motivates them to learn new things, they positive feedback loop where each new challenge ones. This then fosters a love of learning that to expand what they can do. On the other hand challenge and asks: &quot;will I be good at this right worst fears they have about themselves, and so they run away from anything difficult, and their negative cycle that reinforces itself. They end abilities because they've never truly challenged up years later they'll have completely different at the beginning. Dweck says that we all have but the key insight from her work is that you can How? Let's say you try something new and it true. But saying &quot;I'm a failure,&quot; is definitely who you are as a person or your self-worth. If you you can reframe it. One of my favorite quotes beginner has even tried.&quot; If you think of anyone who's become exceptionally good at something, reaches mastery without failing over and over from mastery is your willingness to go through ashamed of your mistakes: &quot;a life spent making useful than a life spent doing nothing.&quot; The little bets in your life. When Yoky Matsuoka was crumbling all around her, and yet through a different fields of study, and find a completely small bet. Ask yourself: what's something you've Is there a small bet you can make right now to is low but the upside could be big? You don't have around 10% of your time doing small experiments one of the most exciting ways to add more play and you'll spend more of your life expanding what I first read about Yoky Matsuoka in Robert very important insights from her story. As things we're naturally interested in we're told to be fun and that's why you get paid for doing conventional path, if you drown out your inner do, you will never reach mastery. You'll never problem that fascinates you at the deepest level energized feeling like you can't wait to tackle it's like to do work that feels like play. Why is pioneer in the psychology of flow States. 91 very accomplished people across a range of what he found was that a lot of the conventional example it turns out that school didn't seem many people we consider geniuses today didn't seen as gifted or remarkable. What they had they listened to their intuition. When they of knowledge they found patterns where others saw because they were fully engaged and fascinated been more brilliant it was their drive to follow factor. So ask yourself: what are the things that fill you with energy and excitement and where with it? The second insight from Yoky's story is success. Greene says that we're often taught with other people by narrowing your focus in more that no one else is doing. Some people do find you can broaden what you're doing and combine each new and unique to you; this was Yoky's approach; from her love of tennis, to her work in robotics, her from the idea that she was competing with expensive education to do this. Joe Rogan is one out of University but pursued his interests mixed martial arts, and podcasting. In the process to who he is; he's deeply curious. This is the way Leonardo da Vinci was a master in art, science centuries ahead of his time. Benjamin Franklin wide ranging contributions in literature, science education and faced major hardships throughout curiosity that drove them to keep learning and the most basic ideas of the Renaissance; that development and there's no telling what we can do our deepest inclinations. When I look at these how much fun they're having as they're doing their of play. Ask yourself: what is it that feels people? The things that feel like play to you are and if there's many different things that excite way? Because no one else has precisely the So let me leave you with a thought from Alan Watts going to make it, but it's always going to to feel children love to take risks; it feels dangerous called it the 'courage to be.' It's the courage wherever you are in your personal journey don't patient. If you're not where you want to be right to the oak tree it's a potential oak but as an is. A baby is as lovely as an adult sometimes is in a beginning state of evolution is just as much a manifestation of the divine dance.&quot; In the to be incredibly powerful and it plays a huge role easy to reach their dreams, while others rarely I was never the same. Once this video is finished screen if it's not here it means I'm still working right side of the screen; and I would love it if as always thanks so much for watching take care