Human behavior. The more I look at our current predicament, root of our challenges. Today, I am joined by Professor Jonathan Haidt John is a social psychologist looking at human differs across cultures and political divides. John is the author of The Happiness Hypothesis, the Righteous Mind, and more recently, the John and I discuss the impact of social media of technology and social media, and the decline in political dysfunction and how we might John is, along with Sapolsky and E.O. Wilson, one of the academic heroes of how and access to information. I hope this is the beginning of a series, was a wonderful conversation. Please welcome Professor Jonathan Haidt. Jonathan Haidt, great to see you. Nice to see you, Nate. It's been like six months this has been on Thank you so much for taking time. Off camera in the soundcheck, we just showed Wilson, so we are definitely of a tribe. That's right. We're both fans of the great E.O. Wilson. Yes, the recently passed E.O Wilson. I just had a podcast a couple weeks ago with David Sloan Wilson on the my other favorite Wilson multi-level selection In my world, you may not know this, you probably You are somewhat of an idol of mine along Wilson, and I use your videos and your books I have written and spoken that we don't so energy problem as a human brain mismatch with and you and your last 20 years of work are I personally believe that your work, both to what we face, you are right at the heart Maybe just to get a step back to get a running about your three main books. Maybe you could give a two-minute summary. The three main books, what - 2006 or so - was What was the main thrust of that? Yeah. My first book actually doesn't grow out of to the later books. When I was teaching introductory psychology reaching for quotations from the ancients If you're going to teach cognitive behavioral good or bad, but thinking makes it so and For a while it looked like I wasn't going to get tenure, I had very and I thought, well, if I don't get tenure rate college. Maybe I'll just try to make it on my own as Hey, what if I were to write up to write up see did the ancients really know anything? And it turns out that they knew absolutely there's no need to read them for that. But on consciousness and human relationships, I don't mean they were brilliant on average we're much smarter on average. But what we get from ancient civilizations gone through about a 700... I forget I calculated once. It was a 700-layer filter, only stuff that 2000 years. Anyway, it's a book about 10 ancient ideas true to a large extent, things like what doesn't It really was just a popular book showing psychology. Then it turns out, and then I'll just put my third book, the Coddling of the American We'll get to the biggest takeaway I had from that I've actually used in is we have the limbic system and the neocortex, which you reference as the mahout riding on Together in tandem, they can accomplish amazing and does his own thing, which is our emotions it, which also informed some of your other Oh, good. I'm glad to hear that. Let me just make one slight change on that, mind and the limbic versus frontal cortex But when I came to see by the end of the book, myself an intuitionist, is that the divisionist That is some parts of our cortex support conscious This is a very, very new cognition. Probably not more than a million years old. We don't know when language began, but yeah, That's the rider. That's the conscious reasoning. It's slow. It's not very strong. It doesn't control our behavior. The elephant, the other 99% of what goes on Those are all over the brain. Some are limbic, but many are also in the The cortex is mostly in a source associative have too. But yes, that division between this little because that's what stands in the middle of where the action is usually. Then you wrote a book that along with the ever. I'm not kissing your butt here, I really mean Could you give a couple minute overview of Sure. That is the summary of all of my life's work, I studied moral psychology. I began studying that my first year at the At the time, the whole field of moral psychology Lawrence Colberg was the main figure, and reason about harm, rights, and justice. I had the great good fortune to study the and cultural psychologist at the University I got a postdoc to work with him after my From him I learned and others, Alan Fisk, varies across cultures and how it's based in automatic effective intuitive processes. And so, the righteous mind was my attempt as just add the thread that I was always on to help the Democrats win, because most social I was a Democrat and thought that we should political party. I now think that that is unprofessional, I off, I think if social scientists focused In any case, the big revelation for me, I in part to, again, help Once I actually started as opposed to media will give you the worst of the other side. But once I started reading National Review of really brilliant non-progressive or non-left have to look at something from multiple sides and you cannot...&quot; I didn't know as much about John Stewart Mill his own side of the case knows little of that.&quot; Anyway, sorry. That's all the background to the book. The summary of the book, I can give it to Hold on a second here, I'll take it right As an intuitionist, I try to make my writing because if it feels easy, you'll believe it. That's a little trick for all of you who are I divided the book into three principles. Here they are. I can teach you moral psychology in three Here's number one, intuitions come first, That's actually the rider and the elephant, If you want to persuade someone, you got to Don't go giving people reasons why they're First, get them to lean towards you to feel If the elephant is not opposed to you, well Here's principle number two. There's more to morality than harm and fairness. That's what I learned from working with Richard Shweder and Alan Fisk about morality is all about harm, rights and justice But most of the world is what we would call believe that people have positions in society, for those above them, they have notions of That's principle number two. There's more to morality than harm and fairness. Principle number three is morality binds and That's about how actually we evolved to be What I should say is our evolution is very, We are like chimpanzees and bonobos in a lot But then we have this period again in the selection where once we became groupish or group competing with group killing them, taking As we said at the beginning, we're fans of it draws on a lot of their ideas. That's it. If you know those three principles, then you Yeah, I thought it was a really influential It helped me understand the divide between I've actually led book conversations about That brings us to your latest book, which of the American Mind. You give us a brief summary of that? Yes, sure. The Happiness Hypothesis is these 10 ancient Here, let me just pull it down the shelf here. Suppose so suppose that sometime in the early and we said, &quot;What happens if we teach young Let's take here chapter seven, the uses of stronger. But what if we told young people, no, actually do not expose yourself to people who criticize of you. Do not expose yourself to anything that will you're unsafe. Okay, let's try that one. Then the second one is... Well, the second great untruth. The book is based on three great untruths. The second one is always trust your feelings, tell us. The ancients tell the stoics, the Buddhist, illusionary world. Our emotions run away with us. A mature person has a way of questioning their But what if we told young people, &quot;Always Then the most important one of all, I believe In the coddling It's life is a battle between What if we told young people that everything wherever you look, everything is about power and wealth and try to step on others? If we told young people that and we prevented they started to enter universities, they reached might have happened is exactly what did happen, in were really, really different. At the time we thought that they were all We didn't know about Gen Z. We thought millennials may... Who knows when the generation will end, maybe Well, it turns out it ends very suddenly. The last millennials are around 1995, 1996 very, very different. The main difference, and that's actually my is on what happened to Gen Z? Why do they have twice the rate of depression, millennials twice the rate? What happened? There are many causes, the main ones being lot of universities, they were also greeted The various student deans of students and taught them some ideas, some currently fashionable of ancient wisdom. Anyway, that's what the Coddling of the American It began as an Atlantic article in 2015 with It was his idea originally. Then it turned into, we wrote it up into a We're going to tie that all together. I think listeners so far can see where this to what our culture currently faces. I think your next book, tentatively titled Atlantic article about the past 10 years have Could you give us a teaser about what you're It looks like your books are like six years Does it take that long to write a book? Yes, it does. Well, no, it actually does, because I mull projects that sometimes don't come to fruition is even more important. In this case, I put a few years into a book Capitalism, the Moral Psychology of Economic Here I am, I'm at a business school. Morality has a lot to do with economic thinking, But just as I got back from a trip to Asia blew up with all this craziness and the safe all that stuff that really killed the joy 2015. That really sucked me in as a crisis in my Anyway, so I wrote the coddling book with work on the capitalism book in 2021, a year I had all these ideas for what was going wrong. It really seems it's not just the universities, the media, the arts, the All these progressive institutions, cultural institutions, I would now any institution that is structured to generate I'd include museums, K-12 education, all of They were all malfunctioning in the same way a bunch of essays I was going to write for that I work with Don Peck and Don and Jeff eight essays. Write one, write one big one. Just give it your best shot to really lay That's what that article was that came out American Life have been uniquely Stupid. It's about, the central metaphor is that we The Tower of Babel, I believe, fell in 2014. It fell once 3,000 years ago in the Bible. When it falls, what happens is that people It's not that we're polarized into two groups, broken into a million pieces. That I think is our modern state of affairs much as society, and I hope we'll be talking But very briefly, I started to work on this we may never again share. The Atlantic article was one or two chapters I was going to start the book with a chapter really the canaries in the coal mine. They were the first humans to move their social They did it very, very quickly between 2010 As soon as they moved on, they became depressed It was instant. It was the same year, basically. 2012 is when it really all starts. That's not just America. That's exactly the same in Canada, Britain, I was going to just write a chapter on what did to democracy. But by the time I wrote the first chapter I mean, you would not believe these hockey stick graphs - On depression and anxiety and such? And self-harm and suicide, especially for For the boys, it goes up a lot, but it's not The girls, it's like boom, 2012, they get Once I wrote that, I thought, &quot;Oh my God, childhood and what kids need. Then I need a whole separate chapter on girls Then I realized I have to have a chapter on by social media, but they're being affected their entire childhood on a screen. Anyway, I decided to split the book into two. The book I'm currently writing is called Kids The metaphor there is, what if we decided space station? What if we sent babies up to grow up in outer What would happen? It would be horrible. Without gravity, their joints wouldn't form, you physically could not grow up in outer You would die. I mean, of course, we're in a space station, and oxygen and food and all the things you Earth. I don't think you could grow up on Mars either, What if we had kids grow up, not in a human and wrestling with small groups of other kids, run by private companies that are maximizing What happened? We know what happened, you cannot grow up. If you go through puberty on social media by it. You will probably be set much more so than you would've been if you had a normal human childhood. Anyway, that's what the book is about. I'm really looking forward to that. Is there any evidence or research available south that aren't the western industrialized not? Yeah, there's not much. Here's the situation. Actually, everybody, if you're listening, I've put all my work there. I have these giant Google documents where find across countries. You'll see it there. It's a Google doc called Adolescent Mental The US and UK have excellent statistics. Canada's a very small country, but they have Australia too that we have studies from all It's surprisingly hard to find good studies There are some EU studies that will look at We're integrating those. That's just the EU. When we talk about the global south, then really good nationally representative studies Africa, there's nothing I've found. Asia, even Asia, there's not very much. Now, there are a couple of international surveys, for, but it's the big education study, it's Kids who are, I think 15, they always get I think they fill out a big long survey. Jean Twenge and I found that embedded in this about loneliness at school. Do you feel you have friends at school? Do you feel isolated, alone? What we found when we analyzed it, it's given were actually pretty stable from 2001 through Then all of a sudden they go up afterwards. That's true in Latin America, Northern Europe, we don't have good data. Oh, Asia, there's a couple of Asian countries, Anyway, that's my summary of what we know What Happened in 2012? The iPhone comes out in 2007, and the iPhone It's not harmful or dangerous, as Steve Jobs It's a phone, it's a camera, and it's an iPod, Totally harmless. But social media came out in 2004. Now, that in its early ages was also pretty of my dog and my girlfriend.&quot; But you put the two together as Mark Zuckerberg key changes that begin in 2009. Well, you got the newsfeed before then, and You go from social media is this generally Swiss army knife. All is good. But in 2009, social media changes. By 2010, a lot of teenagers are getting it in their flip phones in until 2007. But by 2010, 2011, that's when you get a really By 2013, 2014, most teenagers have a smartphone. On their smartphone, they now all have social The average teen now is on nine different Girls used to all be on Instagram. They still mostly are. Now they're moving to TikTok. Anyway, the point is, when kids had flip phones, times to get a letter, so you could communicate, Okay. But once you got a smartphone, now it's like, I'm just going to sit on my bed and I'll post That all changes. 2010 to 2015, I call the great rewiring. That's when childhood change in the US and I'm pretty familiar with this because I've for eight years. I see that. I really speculated one year. What years were you teaching? Sorry? I taught from 2012 to 2019. Okay. That was a transition. Your first year you were teaching millennials, Z. What did you see? I saw a progressive complaining every year would report it to the associate dean that when it's just ecology and science. I'm sure they said unsafe. Yeah. Yeah. This was natural sciences? Yeah, that's right. Yeah. I mean it was... Do you remember any examples? ... honors course called Reality 101. But eventually, yeah, I mean, I'm now doing platform. I love teaching college-aged students, but joy wasn't there that it was 10 years ago. No, that's right. I just want to pull out, I just want to show to this, not seeing it, but I'm pulling up Emergency, 911. Public safety gives you the number. Campus transportation, NYU alert for emergencies, If somebody says something, if I say something who to call, they can call it in, they can There's three different ways they can get Now I've tried, I've called the bias, they I don't know how many times I've been reported. How does that affect your teaching, John, Yeah, it's terrible. It means I can't trust my students. They're overwhelmingly trustworthy, but in who are offended by something I've said and As we know from what just happened in at Hamline complaints, action will be taken, because do. If the goal of universities is to expand liberal is doing a disservice to the students, because you may be afraid and to tell the cutting-edge science that you've people, so the education gets watered down Yes? Yep, yep. That's right. That's right, and it becomes a self-reinforcing elementary and high school with the idea that can't read Mark Twain because it has the N They can't read to Kill a Mockingbird. They've been protected from any word, even It's amazing how much of this is about individual It's about words. They've been protected from any word that That means they haven't gotten tough enough Then they get to college and we can either welcome to the real world. You got to be ready for the real world.&quot; We could do that, but nobody did. Instead, we accommodated. We have all these offices that are focused shouldn't... It varies. Stanford just put out its language guide. Now that's not official guidance from the they're told, don't even say trigger warning. Why? Because triggers that could make someone think This really concerns me. Again, I know much more about your work than very tough economic times, and the coddling has scary implications. We were just talking about depression, anxiety, intense social media. But you've also written about the rewilding play. But given what you just said, is this to a moralizing nature because nature by definition What do you think about all that? Wait, say it again. We're moralizing nature. Wait, yes, I totally agree, we need to push we're more or less nature? Well, nature, red tooth and claw is inherently There are no safe spaces in nature. I think increasingly, well, E.O. Wilson recently passed on sociobiology had about sociobiology. But I think the left particularly doesn't and the fact that we come pre-wired to some I don't know if that's changed or not, but No, it's gotten worse. Rally? Yeah. This has a longstanding left right difference, that the left, at least has had the idea that we can remake humanity It's the Jean Jacques Rousseau idea. You find that certainly the Soviets had this ideology is that certainly a lot of the stuff all that stuff. Obviously, gender is to a large extent, but if not perfectly. In any case, the larger point that you were times, I heard your conversation with Daniel you're coming from on this. There's a bill to pay, there are ecological What I'm saying, and where my babble book major political and sociological crises coming. I think that the conditions under which liberal of the new age of the post-Babel era of the There won't be public squares, there won't There won't be any shared narratives anymore. I think we're going to have a lot of instability. It's impossible to predict when things can... What is it? The market can stay insane longer that you I don't want to put a date on things, but that Plato wrote about, that James Madison social media just targets exactly those known about factionalism, faction is what Madison tribalism. I think we're at the end of a cycle. Here's the thing I want to bring in right There's an internet meme some listeners will men make good times, good times make weak That's a cycle. That's actually something that was Ibn Kahldun, he had that theory as he observed tough tribes coastal city where all the riches were, and were pretty soft, then the next generation, This theory, these cycles are real, doesn't to these cyclical theories. We are at the end of a cycle. World War II made tough people all around and they built these amazing institutions liberalism flourished, within which we had rights, civil rights, gay rights, animal rights, You and I got to grow up in this incredible it can't last. Structures can't last. They have to be rebuilt. I think what we're facing unfortunately, is our institutions and that are causing us to to reinvent governance for ourselves in this Those same changes, I believe, I'm arguing, not be up for the task. The American experiment is an experiment in That's what it means to say this is an experiment. What we did starting in the '90s was we said, How about no? How about you never get to try that? How about you never get unsupervised time?&quot; Because if you're not supervised, you might might get in a fight with... No, we'll have adult supervision all the time At that point, if someone says something you will take care of you. I think we have inadvertently denied Gen Z, and then we're handing off a broken democracy &quot;Okay, good luck with this.&quot; When I teach my class, we spend a whole month nine in The Righteous Mind, among other things. The kids, it's their favorite section of the biases, steep discount rates, status supernormal My question to you is, how our own psychology in creating benign pathways through the stuff you were just talking about, that of other people like you write about Can we overcome our own psychology? Or is it in one ear and out the other? What's the process there? What do you think? We can approach that in a lot of different If we look at an individual trying to change works. I used to do this in Psych 101. Here's all the mechanisms that are against We evolved to not starve to death. Knowing that doesn't make it any easier really It's a rider an elephant thing. I can explain things to your elephant, but things to your rider, the conscious reasoning, going to do what it was going to do. It's very hard to change. In fact, one of the quotes I use in the book, I see the right way and approve it, but alas Just knowing- Story of my lifetime. ... it's not going to change your... Knowing stuff isn't going to change your behavior, generally not. But here's where I think it's really important. We're being rewired by engineers in Northern I mean, the technology, I'm so down on it Vista, the first web browser, and the first I mean, these engineers gave us a utopia for Absolutely amazing. But I don't think there's a single sociologist as I can tell. They did all this stuff. When it came to... If you're trying to solve for getting people That's a social good to do that. Now obviously Uber had some unethical practices, I'm not saying they were great company. But the inherent problem of people and cars social media has. When social media companies at Facebook and When they rewired childhood, all they were I'm sure they did not mean to hurt children. They were not thinking, &quot;Let's hurt children,&quot; either. They weren't thinking, &quot;Would it be healthy each other and have them earn likes which I don't think that ever occurred to them, No, they're not bad people per se, they were market share and dollars, are optimized for. That's right. Then it was a slippery slope, because once they started down that road, as we know from the Francis Haugens revelations, really bad, but it was too late, they couldn't I should say, in this case, the companies Facebook is unique in that one man basically I forget how it works with voting shares and can do what he wants. That's bad governance. That shouldn't be. I canceled all of them a couple years ago. Then given my role of trying to help society up, and I joke with our mutual friend, Tristan do Gaia's work. I'm still on the platforms. Oh, yeah. We need to be on them to understand them. Look, they're useful. I use Twitter. What I was thinking this morning is, you know what, if we all just use and guide people information, and if we don't put out your opinions, just say, &quot;Hey, here's for that. Yeah, no, I actually like Twitter. You focus in your work on individual levels, My work is more on the systems, social and level. Can you talk about how or what you study can an individual level behavior perspective? Yeah. I like thinking that way. I'm very badly trained and socialized as a as an undergrad. I took some psychology courses, I took some I think of myself as a systems thinker. I love to see how things mesh. Concilience E.O. Wilson, part of I think why you and I love Wilson is that he is the greatest figure at Here, this entomologist was able to think the arts and why we landscapes and all sorts For about five years, that was my favorite It's totally marked up, that black book with Go on. On, yep. Yep. Great book. There's an idea that I tried to explain in coherence because, so out here's a quote. &quot;Whenever a system can be analyzed at multiple levels mesh and mutually interlock.&quot; You see this in personality. You might have stories about yourself that If I'm an extrovert and I might have a story about myself. If that story matches my true lower level But if my story isn't consistent with my lower All of this is nested within my understanding theory of politics. When things match the sociocultural level down to even the neurological level, you have likely to break. You're much less likely to have a crisis where can't understand yourself. In the same way, what I would tell students abstract is it's really good to be a reductionist related to neurons and neurons can be explained and membranes. That's reductionism. That's great. Especially, or as long as you pair it with life - as a physicist can't understand life. They can tell you all about atoms, but they're on meaning. Anyway, yes, I think that there's a thing think across disciplines and across levels. I think that's what you and I are struggling Yes, agreed. I'll see your quote, and I'll raise you a system is far from equilibrium, small islands I close a lot of my talks with that one. Wait, wait, wait. Hold. I got to get this, get this down. Hold on a second. It'll be in the show notes. Maybe your listeners will want to hear that Okay. Oh my gosh, I have so many questions and we're John, both of our work is trying to understand system of what I call a biophysical reality. How do you think, and you alluded to it earlier, playing in weakening science's role in our Has pos- modernism opened the door to current were not previously so before you refer to And why is this important to our future? I was a graduate student in the 1990s, in There was a joke. That was like, there was the first there, stuff in the late '60s and '70s. Then there was a second wave in the late '80s, Then there's the third wave began around 2013, In the '90s there was a joke. What do you get when you cross a mafioso and Don't know? You get an offer you can't understand. I tell that joke, because I did try to understand It was all the rage. I had a girlfriend in the linguistics department. I hung out with people in the humanities. I read some stuff like I tried to understand deconstructionism and all that stuff. It's like there must be a they are there, it is a skepticism about our ability to know an ability to shape the structures by which Sure, that's fine. I mean, that makes sense that you don't need But to the extent that it is not just an academic of knowledge, but I believe it is generally or left wing political goals in ways other This is what bothers me, is that so much of they don't do... Just talking and giving reasons. They try to play with language of... A lot of the what's happening on campus now, inclusion, they're not really arguments. They're just trying to win by playing with allowed to use what words. It should bring us all back to reading George I mean, a Newspeak was an attempt to eliminate from having thoughts that would be at variance I don't enough about post-modernism and all those things to really evaluate it other than to see that this is an ideology of a university, which is Let me build on that. It's currently quite easy, too easy to use by being the loudest in the room, and social AM and talk radio show, so logic and reason handicapped in this environment and continue How might you suggest that we slow this decline? And what would be the pathway from where we on those principles, logic, reason, enlightenment, A very easy question for you, John. Yeah, I know actually it is, because actually on Babel. What I've found, wherever I go, most people I'm pretty up on humanity in terms of what we're like on average, but stuff is about the dynamics, what happens systems allow the average reasonable person humane system. Other systems allow extremists to have influence My central point in the Babel article was innocent. But once they got especially the retweet button, The retweet button allowed anything to go If it was just, &quot;Hey, look at my puppies,&quot; But once it became a lot about politics and people out, basically call out culture was The metaphor I used in the article was it's Twitter and Facebook, handed out a billion Anyone could dart anyone at any time, you You could shame or attack or humiliate anyone. No context. There's no room for context, 240, was 120 There's never a backstory. There's just you take a quote, you take a your comment, and then people jump on. My argument was most people are reasonable, media, which begins in 2009 with the button fruition by 2014, 2013 - 2014, you get threaded not just comment on this post, it's comment people fighting and arguing within the comments. That's when I believe the tower Babel fell You ask, how could we get in more humane system? Well, if what social media did in those years, right, the far left, trolls, who are almost Russian agents or other foreign intelligence Zuckerberg and what's his name from Twitter. It was as though they said, &quot;Here, how about Let's just try it. Okay, you get 100X more influence.&quot; Then what happens? The middle 80%, they're like, &quot;I hate this. I don't want to be here.&quot; Most people don't speak up. I believe what happened wasn't that humanity that a country of overwhelmingly sane people the space of just a few years, just a few Twitter was even a nice place when I first In just a few years, the dynamics were altered. That now it's just nasty, and it's that nastiness upset to force a professor to be fired, to it is. This is what's driven us insane, and this Anyway, I think as long as social media's is sustainable. Doesn't mean it's going to collapse, or our It doesn't mean it's going to collapse anytime It will eventually. I think the same is true of liberal democracy. If we go on the way we're going, we're not media- How do we slow the decline of that? ... reform is the most important thing we Well, in the Babel article, in the Atlantic would, I think bring it back... At least, I don't know if it would bring it would mitigate it. There's three buckets of reforms. The first bucket is we have to strengthen epistemic institutions, so that they can withstand to not know, but it's very hard to find truth except not only how can we have elections, Not only are those four categories having categories are influencing further left and Exactly. That's right. That's right. It's influencing who gets elected, especially... Okay, that's a good example of a reform needed. America is the only major country that has Other countries have parliamentary systems, the election, let's have just the Republicans Democrats hold their election. We know that only five or 10% of the people extremists who vote. What do you say?&quot; Let's see who they elect. Oh, guess what? They often elect extremists. Then once in the places where that party is That's why we see people like Lauren Boebert Republican party, although the Democrats have But the Republicans are really vying for the prize for just outright But the thing that I think people don't fully just determine who gets elected. It strongly influences how they behave once In very few congressional even some senator seats aren't very competitive. Senator seats can't be gerrymandered, but The election doesn't matter. All that matters is the primary. When that happens, you get decent people. I've met a bunch of Congress people. They're generally very good, smart, hardworking want to make things better. They're good people for the But if they ever cooperate with the other media. Their fundraising is going to take a hit. They'll be shamed, attacked. Social media is like all dark guns given to trying to avoid the darts. So it's not only who they're electing but The political governance was your first point. You said there were three. That's the first We have to harden it. That's right, harden our electoral and democratic They can withstand much greater polarization I think we're going to have a big upsurge or two. Remember, in the early '70s, late '60s, there There was more than one bombing per week. We don't remember that nowadays, but there in the past. The second bucket is social media reform or less toxic to our political and epistemic There, the biggest single thing we can do, Everyone freaks out and says, &quot;Oh, but we Fine, you can have anonymity. There's no problem there. You have anonymity on Uber, you have anonymity But because the company knows who you are them, and you can unlock this incredible benefit because they're authenticated. Now, you don't know their name and they don't You can't just be a criminal or a Russian taking people's money when, hey, you don't You can't do that on Airbnb, but you can do or Facebook, there's no authentication, so assholes, a lot of liars. If this is supposed to be the public square This is why I say we are so far outside the If Facebook and Twitter and whatever platforms is, we're doomed. We have to require, I believe, that large there are many ways already in existence to Doesn't mean you show them your driver's license. There's already more than a dozen. I have a bunch of them listed on one of my Then the third, there's a bunch more social There are reforms to the virality of things, We don't want content moderation. I'm sorry, I don't care about content moderation. It's not very important, and it really does You can't really trust a company to do it. You can't trust the government to do it. But Francis Haugen and other, and Tristan that are content neutral and language neutral. They're structural architectural reforms. That's what I think- Free speech, but not freedom of reach. Yeah, that's right. A lot of it's about the amplification as Francis If you look at how many people, one a person invites fewer than a hundred people per week. Most people invite nobody or one or two. But if you look at the top 1% who are inviting conspiracy sites. They're almost all garbage. What if you just limit it so that you can the 99th percentile title is? It's just things like that, those are not outsized virality of certain amplification Well, I think- Then the third bucket just... Oh, go ahead. No, please. Okay. The third bucket is we have to change what It's possible that we're too late with Gen will be called. We don't know when it starts. But at least Gen Alpha will be able to handle If we don't do that, then anything else we Well, I have to say- That means we have to give them a lot of free play and autonomy, send them before they get on social media. Whereas now we do it the opposite. We say, &quot;You can get on social media when tell your mother.&quot; But you can't go out to the park, you can't That's insane. That's crippling Gen Z, I believe. How much of this is the responsibility or Isn't this becoming a bipartisan issue? The Francis Haugen and people on both sides human that they thought they had because of Yep, that's right. I would say almost none of it is the parents' The reason I say that is because if we had able to do this well and then a third of parents you guys be the good parents?&quot; But unless you go to an orthodox religious where you have a whole community that says, Now, there are people do it better or worse, The companies have hooked us into a collective None of us want our kids on Instagram in sixth But when both of my kids, when they started they both said, &quot;Everyone's on Instagram. Everyone has an account. They just lie about their age. They have an account.&quot; I said, &quot;No, I'm not going to let you do that,&quot; The only reason we ever let our kids on is The platforms have engineered it that way. Facebook says they're going to do all kinds What they will never do is kick off the 11 to get them before they go to TikTok. Yeah, you're right. It is a collective action problem. Well, I'll tell you this, John, your instinct stopped writing the Moral Capitalism book all, climate change, geopolitics, our democracy. You're absolutely right. I have 15 more questions that I'm going to ask a few more before I do my closing personal Building on this, you're an expert on moral Given what you were talking about the Congress right, and then that changes their behavior, or 20 moral leaders, or does moral leadership results in electing people more capable of and destroying government as some of the narratives Yeah. Well, as a social psychologist, I look at of people do something that looks unethical, understand situations where people seem like jerk, you got to assume it's probably more Many good people have gone to Congress and some get corrupted, but I think most of them they have to do things. Now, we understand politicians always have You can't be a morally pure person and be It may be a good politician. They do have to make compromises. But at the same time, leadership matters. Some people are better leaders than others. I guess what I'd say is to the extent that issues, you get really, really bad ethical You get people in a cut corners because survival's a system keeps people's eye on the long term, The same would of course be true about the If you're thinking about longtime horizon, things that are in the long term good and long term bad, there are a variety of situations easier. The US Congress is really, really messed up. The incentives are such that good people end Now, it's not just the institution that's I think the Republican Party is the structurally Now, just to explain briefly, in the Atlantic structurally stupid party because they've They have essentially no moderates left. The extremists, and look what we're seeing hostage. The Democratic Party is not like that. The Democratic Party has a far left, but it's You couldn't have a couple of far left people In the Atlantic article, I argue that the party, but the cultural left has made our they are able to hold universities. The New York Times. Now the Times is getting better, I should But in 2020, the times really humiliate itself Museums, teachers, unions, all sorts of the There's a lot of stupidity to go around. It's just that it's a little different on Sorry, I veered off of your question. No, and this whole thing could veer off in I have to just say that I know a lot of people to hear someone that simultaneously critiques a rarity, because they usually just critique Okay, but wait, if I may, because I am often always saying, &quot;Well, both sides are equally If you're committed to finding fault on both be roughly comparable, then that would be That would be a bias, that would be wrong. But I am committed to both sidesism only in people on both sides say. I will look to see whether they're right. It turns out, as John Stewart Mill said long It was something like, the gist of it is in side was right in what they asserted, though In other words, if you look at what the main critical about Republicans about, they're There's almost always something there. But then they're accused of things and they wrong. And vice versa. I am committed to both sides-ism as a tactical listening to both sides, taking the charges You usually find that they're right about So, yeah, I'm in favor for both sides. I have much the same attitude. Real briefly, since you brought that up, it justice tends to be a left moralizing issue, moralizing issue. What do you think about this? Yeah. Oh, yeah. The theme of the capitalism book is dynamism That is to have a good capitalist economy, The left always focuses on decency and is That's why they're pro union, they're pro and is willing to sacrifice a lot of decency. This is Ronald Reagan's economic revolution, and they argue that in the long run that creates to tolerate more exploitation of immigrants, rights violations. You actually need the economic intuitions Well, let's start with the right. You must have an appreciation for the importance and productivity. You must have that. Otherwise, you get in the extreme, you get But in more moderate cases, you get France Just those are good countries. They've been creative in the past. Now they're just like, I don't know what they're Whereas the Anglo countries, and also Scandinavia have to also have, you need activists, you need rights groups looking exposing the abuses, because a capitalist of Facebook, the pressures to keep share price by hook or by crook. I think that tension environment, economy, in how loud it is in coming decades. I'm going to read you a quote that you wrote Most societies have chosen the socio-centric answer, placing the needs first and subordinating the needs of individuals. In contrast, the individualistic framework society a servant of the individual. Most ancient societies, which he wrote about, are individualistic. Is there a path to, again, becoming socio-centric? What do you think about that? Yeah, that's a good question. I don't know. Just briefly, I was drawing on both work from and also on this really powerful concept from That is WEIRD, stands for Western, educated, What they point out is that the countries even in perception, you give people perceptional And Americans will focus on the one fish that's Japanese people will actually see the stuff Weird countries think differently. The enlightenment both took off in Western The enlightenment is all about the individual. It's a rejection of older socio-centric views traditions that value community. You can still have that, but you're not going be. I think it's a good question whether maybe and we need to just go back a bit. But the other possibility is that the gene People try to create communities like, &quot;Hey, called. Let's all just get together voluntarily and I shouldn't knock it, because I don't know showing that, and I cover this from my sous mind, that if you look at 19th century intentional to live on the prairie, the ones that had individualism didn't last long. They could never pass it on to their kids. Whereas the ones that required a lot of sacrifice, longer. It's possible that the genies out of the bottle Our technology means we don't need anyone We really don't - we don't need strangers It's noticed, it used to be when you and I But now if you ask for directions, it's not We really don't need people anymore, for now. We're going to need people again in the not If we lose electricity. Yeah, if we lose power for months or years You know what, maybe that's it. Maybe that's the answer. Maybe that's what will bring us the hard times Are you teaching right now? Yes, I teach at NYU Stern and I've been teaching In a few weeks I'm going to start an undergraduate called Flourishing. Let me just ask you, how many hours a week Because you talk- It's very hard to say. ... like a library in your mind, it seems. Well, I'm 59 years old and I find that the and narrowing now. But I did put a lot in when I was in graduate I almost never read. It's really sad, but people ask, &quot;What's the I have to say I almost never read books, because There's so much great writing now, there are in the Atlantic and all sorts. I read a lot and I do touch a lot of books sense of what's in the book, get the main file in the right place that, okay, if I write of the book, then I'll read that book. But it's impossible for me to estimate. I mean, I spend most of the day reading, but If you just really take a step back and forget amazing time to be alive, where we have the and the current at our fingertips. It is unbelievable. Our job is to find signal versus noise in navigate coming decades. But sometimes take that for granted. How fricking amazing is that? Yeah, no, you're right. I mean, obviously the tone for both of us. I'm worried about a sociological apocalypse. You're worried about environmental apocalypse. But let's put things in perspective here. We evolved to be hunter-gatherers out in the by the neighboring group and starving during Life was really pretty miserable unless you group in Southern California with an endless places where life was good, but for the most Yeah, let's not forget that we have it pretty I think that I'm a big fan, a friend of Steve certainly material progress, health progress, unless there's some huge apocalypse. But I am concerned that our expectations from the '90s when it looked like, oh, democracy Internet's great. Those I think are wrong. It may be a long time before we get through Despite all of our concerns about bad things perspective that we do have it pretty good. We can take guidance from the ancients here. We can take guidance from people in past eras everybody. Here I draw on Joseph Campbell, who was this He taught, I think it was Sarah Lawrence College He studied mythology and he wrote a book called myths are very similar across culture. There's something deep, almost Jungian, like He sums up the lesson of the hero's life, of the world. We cannot cure the world of sorrows, but we The warrior's approach is to say yes to life, I keep that posted in my notes to come across we may go through some hard times, but we Thank you. I've heard that quote before and I quite like I have a lot of questions yet, and you are If you could wave a magic wand, John, what human and planetary futures? Well, let's see. My first thought was give us nuclear fusion But actually no, because we still have the I guess if it was one thing, I guess it would on social media platforms. Okay, excellent. I've been following a model on this podcast one to give a grand arc of a guest's work back to do a deeper dive. In your case, you are so busy, I don't know months. But if you came back to take a deep dive on and think is relevant, do you have any suggestions Well, if I'm able to hide away for the next this book Kids in Space, which will come out I'd be happy to come back on then. What I would want to talk about then, it would It would be what I've learned about childhood not getting as children, because there's a that very few people I think know. If they knew it, then we would redesign schools, and we'd have much, much healthier, happier, Let's do it. I really look forward to it. I agree. We need a lot of changes and that sounds like Thank you so much, John. To be continued, and good luck with all your Well, thank you so much, Nate, and good luck If you enjoyed or learned from this episode to us on your favorite podcast platform and information on future releases.