somber country [Peter] Good morning guys, and today we're going From what I've been told, much different than most other For example, most young people receive hundreds of thousands to be deployed It's out in the western part of the state. Very beautiful from the pictures I've seen and we have the great fortune who said he can show us around, bring us in, and teach us Let's do this. somber country [Peter] We're in the heart [Dylan] Yes. -This is unlike any other reservation, -It's a boundary. -So a Native boundary? So we are a sovereign nation -Like a lot of other nations are. -But here we own the land outright. -William Holland Thomas -How many acres? -When comparing to reservations, Cherokee looks different -Oh, yeah. If you're enrolled with you get a per capita from the casino. Half of it goes to stuff like hospitals, And then the other half goes to -Every year? So it comes in June -Then how much do you have -It depends, right now and then next month But say, my daughter, when she turns 18, she'll have more than -What do you think that number is roughly? -[tsk] -I say well over $500,000. -But it's stipened-up. 'Cause at 18, you don't want to do whatever they want. They're gonna go right through it. At 18 they get 25% of it, -I think it's 23 or 25, -Okay. You know what I mean? [Peter] You said you just got back -Yeah, you don't sweat -It was a ceremony? I have yet to come down from it. -Okay, well thanks for coming out today. I love showing people about my people. -How much sleep -Dude, you were like, I was like, &quot;Thank God, -[Peter] It's so clean here. -It's so well taken care of. Helps with stuff like this. -Right. -They pay for the mowing, -This is like -Exactly, yeah. -I take it for granted. -At least you're aware of that. -Exactly, yeah. I took a girlfriend and she started crying. I was like, &quot;What's wrong?&quot;. She goes, -Oh yeah. I don't have any blood here except for -I'd tell you about your dad but I can't. -[all laughing] -John John, you've traveled a lot -US, Canada, Europe. -So how do you feel -You can take the boy but you can't take -This is your home? -I've just been practicing the language. [Peter trying to read Cherokee] -No. [laughs] -Da ya da wa da he do ha. That says I am visiting you. But actually you visiting me would be, squaw da wa du, he do ha. You are visiting me. -How many Cherokee speakers -Less than 150. -That's it right now? -You guys are really holding onto it? -You're trying to bring it back? -So are the kids learning? -Uh... I'm teaching my coworkers, -Okay. -Even ones that said they didn't want -Because they're around it. -They hear me telling the other ones. -What's driving you -It's us. If we don't have our language, A language is what defines a people. And if we can't speak our language then can we really We just turn into Americans. I mean... -Did your parents teach you the language? -No, not really. -They were actually because the things that my grandparents While my dad was alive, when I asked him why he didn't know it, -Sure. -He said he didn't want to get locked -Right. -So... I told him, I said, &quot;Dad, ain't nobody [laughs heartily] -So Dylan, you work here? I've worked here 13 years. See you, John, John. [John John greeting] -My grandparents own this. -Yeah, best burgers in town. I'm not joking, I'm biased to say it my brother works there. When you see big corporations -Okay. That company has to Whoever owns that land, So you do have different classes here. You do have your wealthy, and then you have your poor. -So by default, everyone that is Cherokee -No. -It's through family? -Do you pay taxes on the land? -This is not BIA? -Bureau of Indian Affairs? -So there's no BIA hospitals or anything? -No, strictly Cherokee hospital. -That's paid for by the tribe? -What about education? -College is paid for They actually pay you to go to college. -They pay you to go to college? -So any college or state college? Yeah, you can study abroad if you want to. -You can go to Harvard -Yeah. Basically you're daughter with a half million dollars-- -To do whatever she wants, I told her-- -Yeah, and I told her, I was like, &quot;You're not going to college She was like, &quot;Why?&quot; We have the money, -Right. -Not going to school, You have the money. As an 18 year old, if I had that money I would want to go -Yeah. -And then worry about my studies. If she needs to. 'Cause when she turns 18, she's 13 now, what if she doesn't need to get a job? What if those six month per caps -Right, okay so once she's 18-- -She'll continue -But basically her amount -Yeah, because-- -And then for the end of time, -It's like the dividend -Exactly, yeah. So in the tribal world, monetarily, You're living well? But see, I don't get that per cap. -Why? -'Cause I'm enrolled -Oh. -So there are three bands of Cherokees? Eastern band, what are the other two? United Keetoowah Band, Cherokee Nation and United Keetoowah Band -Okay. So you got CBD, -We actually are about about to start -Okay. We want to do everything by the book -So how does it make you feel? You're not Eastern Band, that you don't get those perks? Sometimes because I don't even want -You can't vote here on the tribe? Okay. How many Eastern Band Natives are there? -There's about 20,000. -20,000? -This is... This is beautiful. -Oh yeah. [both laughing] -This is like-- It's bringing me joy Enjoying our land, you know? [slaps] -This is sick. -But keep on the road with filming, -You know what's cool about this, -Okay. -We're very prideful My buddy, his name's Dylan Morgan, And we talk a lot of crap to each other because our communities -You have rivalry between communities? We got swimming spots, man. -Oh my God, this place is... Big Cove is the best. -Okay, can an outsider like me, or that's against the rules? -My grandmother is from Illinois. She married into our family. -So you have to marry in? -You don't have to but like, um... -But an outsider, You could lease the land from the family. -Lease the land? -Own the home but lease the land? -Okay. -So you got tubing mostly for tourists? -So the casinos the big -Let me see the camera. -School's here and I want to get a good... -You're the vlogger now. Me and my brother All right, let it rip, what's going on? -So this is our central schools, all the way to twelfth grade, seniors. -It's massive, it's beautiful. -Where am I, Dylan? -So that doesn't even look like a school, it looks like -Yeah. -So this is casino money that's pumping-- -It funds everything. -The casino funds everything? -Roughly 20,000 people, that casino is funding -Mm-hmm. But with the good, there comes the bad. Drugs. It gives money to those people and, -Okay, so-- [Peter] Okay, so drugs, someone doesn't they get on drugs easily because the money's there -Yeah. Now we can't step onto the field and I don't want to disrespect Big cove. -Okay, it's medicined, -So we go through a lot of medicine stuff. -When we play stick ball. I thought I saw something -So you have picnic tables under there. The big time for stick ball That's like our playoffs. -That's our championship, our world cup. -That first week in October, I was telling you about, He's my best friend, I love that kid. -So it's just all out war? I will beat the sh*t out of that kid. -[Peter laughs] -Physically, you'll beat the sh*t, -Yeah, he's having a beer -Were you a warrior people -We played the intimidation game. So there's documentation or we went down there for war, we showed up with 1,500. And so we could fight... or we could sit down and talk this out, and they'd be like, &quot;Okay, yeah, let's talk this out.&quot; -So you'd use intimidation, -Mm-hmm. -We covered eight states at one point. -Eight? -No, no, I mean before first contact. -The original? Okay. -So all this Appalachian territory, right? somber country [Peter] Tourists from all over -Everybody, I have a lot of Europeans, Some people live here year-round. [music continues] [Peter] When it comes to roads, federal government, state government, [Dylan] Tribal, the government The state doesn't either, We have Tribal levy, So if I was to buy a car off the boundary but I'm using it I show my Cherokee card That used to be our swimming spot I didn't grow up with these homes here. -Okay, these are new. This is a housing project, -That one? Okay. -Was that paid for by the tribe? You have two different sides A lot of it is beautiful People can make it out -But everyone gets -Yeah, mm-hmm. -So it's up to them [Peter] Guys, this is one of -Dylan, I'm gonna say that straight up. I've seen a lot of the US, [water flowing] This water is super clean, yeah? -Oh, yeah. -Like... there's no farm runoff above Pretty cold. You were saying, polygamy was a thing -I'd say before first contact. -Cherokee culture, -Of course, -Which means what, the finances? -The household, everything. Whatever they say, it goes. You have to listen to what they say, I was raised by women. I had three men in my life, -You don't like this? -No, it disrupts the fish habitat. This river's been here forever so why are they doing it now? Our fish are sacred to us. So why are they trying to ruin stuff? I don't know specific studies -Do you fish? I used to but it's like living Now for me, -You would have to get a license. -A fishing license. -So how do you guys feel about -We don't mind it at all. It's not been a problem for us at all. I mean they've helped us. Now were are allowed to ban people. So if they come in with bad intentions -Okay, so if you get a group causing problems, you can oust 'em? -Yeah that, or we're gonna -You know? -We're not just gonna kick 'em outright. They have to break some laws How many guys are there like you out here that are Cherokee so they don't get -So there is a lot of families. We do have a lot of 2023, I wanna say there's less than 30 families that So I'm second generation to come back. My father is the first. Yeah, and it stops with me. -Okay, so explain the removal -The removal is the Trail of Tears that sent us all the way to Oklahoma. They found gold in Georgia -The US Army? We didn't like 'cause we were fighting for the South. We fought for the South here. -You fought with the Confederates? -So you joined forces in the Civil War? But we had to, it's like we were forced to They already wiped the majority of us out. What makes you think -But you guys had slaves. Indian slaves, black slaves, white slaves? -We didn't care what color you were. We put you to work, yeah. -It's like a prisoner of war. -See, that's the thing too, and during war times if I shot you in the leg with an arrow, you're my responsibility. -Okay. -I took you home and made sure and then -But sometimes you'd put 'em to work? If they mouthed off, you know... Tried to escape or tried to kill us, [Dylan] I asked an elder where Sully -Who's Sully? -Sully sacrificed himself There was less than 1,200 and fight against the removal. And so he... yeah, sacrificed himself soldiers that were kicking people and sending them on the Trail of Tears. -1,200 stayed here? -How'd you retain your land rights? -This white gentleman -Let these people by. -And he later became a lawyer. And his wife pushed, and pushed, So he gathered up all the money bought the land in his name, -Wow. -So if my family gave him, We got 300 bucks worth of land. We would have to go see him, &quot;Hey 'member we payed for this?&quot; -The deed? -So this white guy, his name is what? -William Holland Thomas. -He bought the 55,000 square acres? -Yeah. -And then deeded it out to you guys? -I guess in a sense, but back then -Set up your house here type of stuff? -Yeah, there's your land, -So that's very unique then -Yeah, yeah. -So the BIA does not own this. -Which the BIA is basically -Don't like 'em. -The only time we use them is for zoning. -Okay. And... what is that called when you go and determine where your land is? -Surveying. Yeah, we use them for that. -The BIA? -So is it fair to say the BIA -Yeah, yeah. -In a way it's federal land -Yeah, because each reservation has to have a BIA building in it. -Then you have your own -Yeah. -And our own judicial court. -Your own judicial court? -Very cool. So if there's a crime that happens here... -You have to deal with -Your father, -Yeah, he's an investigator. -And he's over sex offenders. -Is there a lot of that here? -A lot, huh? But... it's a small community -Okay. -It's like, -So on a lot of reservations especially young women. Is that the story here too? -No, but we do get a lot of -Here? -In a population of 22,000? -Mm-hmm. -Okay, why is that do you think? -Domestic violence. -Drugs, alcohol. -Number of things... a lot of things. Some people are mentally ill. -Right. -Some come back from war, PTSD... -Sure. -Think they're getting bombed. Domestic violence is... -Okay. -I think women here -Why is that? -I have no idea. -Scared of the repercussions? [waterfall flowing] [Dylan] So there's a cave on top I tried to go up there, the more dense it gets. It was daylight like this. I got so far back there I couldn't see We would come around this, me and my siblings, You're saying a prayer to our creator you don't ask anything from our creator. You have everything on earth, That's a sign of greed. As a Cherokee, you get in a situation, get yourself out. -No one else is gonna do it for you. -That was a big turnoff I felt like God was a scapegoat. If I had a problem I would pray, -Right. -I didn't realize that until I started believing more in my Cherokee traditions. Okay, this person Or this woman got in a situation, -And you just did -Mm-hmm, well yeah, -It's a healing ceremony? -Um, more of not moving on, -Saying our final goodbyes I should say. -Someone passed? -I'm sorry, man. -Happens all the time, I don't know, I hate saying that because -Okay. -Do you? You don't? -How have you lost too many people? -Um, I lost my mom to drugs. -Okay. I've lost quite a few friends to drugs. -Okay. Depression, car accidents. Just stuff here and there. -All walks of life. Ironically, you know what I mean? So, yeah... But it never... My mom's didn't hit hard either -Yeah. -I called my therapist 'cause I was like, &quot;What's going on? I should be upset.&quot; He goes, And then he found out -Okay. She's my mother, because without her I wouldn't be here. My father told me I do slip up, I've had exes before -All right, so cut me off wherever. Because-- -Sometimes I gotta go -Nah, go for it, bro, -All right. -I consider you a friend and be like, -Okay, this is how we learn. -So there's that man on the trail and he said Cherokees -[scoffs] No. -And I'm thinking... Like, right? Your daughter's coming -Yeah. -As long as the casino's operating. -And there's some making 60 grand a year -Yeah... Why? -What are your thoughts on that? We're doing just fine. Once you get that reparations, you're gonna owe I don't know, It didn't happen to me, I am able to be here because of them. That is my reparations. I feel like I owe Personally, like as a descendant from Cherokees -I'm back home. -They sacrificed themselves -Yeah. -And I am here. Now I feel like I owe them something -Right. -Nothing is owed to me, -Because your family was one of the ones -Exactly. -And thank God we're in 2023-- -And your dad's a full blood. -See what I'm saying? And it's 2023. -And he can come back. -And we came back. I owe my ancestors something. And maybe this is me -What about this video? Does that pay any homage or no? -No, because I still have to tell But this does help, Okay, I'm letting people know -Yeah -What we go through. We don't go through a lot, As you can tell, you've been to a lot compared to... -No, this is beautiful. I mean maybe I'm getting -Meaning you're not showing the bad parts. That's funny, bro. -That could be one of the things, Your roads are perfect, It looks amazing. I just love the fact that, you know, I don't know the politics here at all but from what can be seen the fact that the money's from the casino is really cool. I find that-- Like it's not It's not like a coal mining company and all the money goes to New York City. -Bro, it's so upsetting too that find something to complain about. It's like, &quot;Oh, our per cap It's like, yeah, Like, what are you complaining about? -Right. -You shouldn't be complaining. -Do you worry with the casino's revenues. -Yeah. Do you worry about that at all? Because it's sort of that is funding everything? -We have investments elsewhere. -Oh, you do? -Like what? -We just opened a Buc-ee's and it's the largest gas station -It's got 120 pumps. -Yeah, it's huge. -Where? -Sevierville, it's about -So it's owned by the Tribe? -All the revenue comes back to you guys? I don't know how that works land wise. I don't know if that's our land outright, You see what I'm saying? I don't know if that's land that's Tribally owned as well. That could be reservation land. I don't know the details about that. Um, from my understanding, 'Cause we bought land we have land in Indiana, I think it's a boat casino. -You have a boat casino? Yeah, we just partnered up to put up some -Okay. -And then we have a bunch of -Okay, so you have a fund, a portfolio? -Yeah, it's called -Wow. -Yeah. -This is non-Cherokee land, this road? -No, this is parkway land, But look how beautiful this is, man. -Oh, man. Give it some love over there. Look at that. -During the evening time you'll have And these elk get huge. Like they will demolish your car. -What is that? You keep your weapons in here I keep my phone in here now, my toboggan. -Times have changed. -This is an Appalachian farm. Cherokees were the ones that taught -Oh. How to do it up in the woods? -Yeah, the only thing they brought Other than that, -So typical Appalachian house? -Yeah. From when, 1700s, 1800s? -1800s. We taught Appalachian people how to survive, basically. So I don't agree with Appalachian living. It was never Appalachian living, We came all the way from Georgia What is that? All Appalachia. -What about West Virginia? -Some of us would, very few families. 'Cause you gotta keep in mind not everybody's gonna -So we were pretty spread out. -That's why you have -But you weren't living -You were? -So... At first there were clay houses but we would insulate them with fur. -Okay -Just to keep 'em insulated. -So you had -No, that's what they probably brung but we did have some sort of chimney. 'Cause we had-- -Yeah, sure. So to be fair though, this is a fusion of the white man's construction style -Yeah. -They probably brought the process here. -But we taught them Like this wood is gonna It won't mold, it won't do this, when you build it like this. -You would cover it up with bear fat. -You know, so it would stay-- -Bear fat? -So this was it? -It still smells like bear fat in here. -[chuckling] Yeah, it stinks. -Part of me romanticizes and then about &quot;Thank God I don't live in those times.&quot; -But we don't know that time, you know? We'd probably enjoy it. -'Cause you wouldn't know anything else. -Of course, that's how it works. -Sometimes I envy other tribes -Yeah. -'Cause they don't understand -Sure. -They don't understand We have to live with that -Right, they're completely in their own-- -...people's headspace, take on any stress from the outside. -Exactly, yeah. -So the Seminoles in South Florida, you said they're getting -Yeah, last time I checked but that was a few years ago. -Yeah. -They just bought out The whole company. [both laughing] -They never surrendered, -No, they never signed -The cavalry was like, in swamps and defeat these people.&quot; -Exactly, yeah. -So the Seminoles have kept full rights in the sense that -Exactly, yeah. So we took steps -Multiple casinos. Buying stuff out -Yeah. After that what else is there to do -It's buying land, and land, and land. -So you guys are expanding, -Yeah, mm-hmm. [Peter] Gas station like this on Cherokee, can an outsider own it -No. The family usually owns the land. -Okay. -[Dylan] Sup, man. [Man] Don't record me, man. -I won't record you. -[Peter] How you doing, man? -Okay, so Dylan... -That's a white guy. So he's just an employee -Yeah. So no Indian gas stations out here? -No. -No, usually if they're Indian, -Sorry, Indian like Asian Indian. -I just... -They're usually... they're ran by -Okay. -Now you wanna be on-camera? I like your shirt, bro. [Dylan] Where you from? -I'm from Greenville. -[Dylan] Okay. -I've been here eight years. It's a lot better than where I came from. [Peter] It's better here -Yep. I've married in to-- [Dylan] Who'd you marry? -Heather Sexon. -I know the Sexons, -[Peter] You guys can go ahead. We're good, I'll splash the card here. So you married into it? -Yeah. -Is she enrolled? -So their kids will be if they have kids. -Yeah. -Got kids on the way? [all laughing] -Yeah, she's three years old. [Peter] Okay, more on the way? -Nah, no more. -One and done, huh? I'll be 36 when she graduates. -God dang. -See ya, man. -Okay, interesting, he married in. -So because she's Eastern Band... -His kid's gonna get the stipend? -Yeah, exactly. That's the way it works. Now if she's less than 1/16th, -How many full Cherokees are there? -Not many, my dad's one of the few. -Really? -So we're talking like hundreds? -Yeah. Not even that, I'm not gonna lie to you. -Okay. Sorry guys about the camera work, I got Snickers, keys, But look, this is how If I had a camera man we wouldn't -Nah. -He was pretty cool too. At first he was like, &quot;No.&quot; -But you know of like grinding you about something -I love it. -A lot of Natives have -I love the Native humor. All the reservations, they're hilarious, -Including me. -They call me the Bahana, on Hopi. It means white man, I think it might [both laughing] They say it in a fun way, -Okay, that's our humor, -Yeah, I love that. If we're standoff-ish I don't know you, -Exactly. -It's that big building up there. -That is our jail and our court. -Jail and court? -Looks like we got some action there. -I know, it's like damn, [Dylan giggles] -So a lot of Cherokees look white. -Um, somewhat. The reason I have dark complexion -But like those cops down there-- -Oh, okay. -They're hired to work here? -Dylan, what's that smell? -That is the great smell of marijuana. -Okay, so that's -Yeah, that's our own Tribal grow. -Wow, look at those plants up there. -Yeah, it's crazy. Obama gave us the right He gave every tribe -Oh, wow. So you guys are selling that off... -Off the boundary? -You're selling it all on the boundary? -Wow, that's a massive operation. -Bro, you're telling me. -It's expanding? Look at that out there, -Yeah. -Hear the fans down there? -Oh my God. So this is for tourists coming in buying this stuff, right? -If they have a medical card. The first six months of it After that six months -Whoa look at this. -So this is a new thing then? This is fairly new, yeah. It was a long process -Right. -It's just... getting to it. Getting to grow it. -So in North Carolina can you do this? -No, the state won't let you. It's still illegal statewide. It's decriminalized, -In North Carolina -No... Well, it depends. 'Cause the Catawbas, -Catawbas, is that another-- -Look, are they gonna -Yeah, they're expanding all this. -So this weed operation Obviously that would smoke out So that's gonna be -Eventually, yes. -Or do you want to do medical grade stuff -Like I said, for medical enrolled members only. -Okay. -Then six months after that, -Oh, I thought it kept going -Nah, these are... So we are no longer on -So it goes much poorer -Yeah. -That's ironic, huh? -That is... That is not the norm. -No, it's not. -Okay, so this is right off the tribe. -Yeah, this is... Dang, they're recording too. [Peter] I mean the river -[Dylan laughs] -What's going on? -The river's very sacred back in Cherokee. -Wow. -Oh my God, just when you think you understand -Yeah. -I've been on a lot of reservations. A lot of time in Native country. And then you get this, -It's not what you expected. -This is your land again? Okay, it's nice again, so it's your land. [Dylan laughs] I just heard what you said, that's funny. -Okay, so what I was asking in the car was do people know what they have here? Like that's not normal with hundreds of thousands of dollars, -Nah. When I took my girlfriend to Oklahoma -Yeah. -We went to my cousin's house I was like, &quot;Why are you crying? She goes, &quot;Your cousin was laying there I was like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; She goes, &quot;You just pulled it out &quot;Made sure he was on his side It's like, &quot;Okay.&quot; She goes, &quot;That doesn't bother you?&quot; It's like, &quot;No, this is my home, &quot;What... you didn't see this?&quot; &quot;No.&quot; Okay, well... She was like, &quot;I need to start taking &quot;'Cause it's a lot different out West.&quot; I was like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; You guys take advantage I do. -At least you're aware. But you have to have that awareness Look at what I have... like look at this! -Yeah. -This is insane. -You guys can grow everything. -I am so lucky to be here. -But I want other tribes You just have to have the steps to do it. -They need the leadership, -There is no chance. And the corruption is so deep. The money goes to the top. That money goes -But not into the people. -Is it 'cause we're so secluded? 'Cause our neighboring tribe and they're three hours away. -Yeah. -So that's why we're so tight-knit here. Is that why, you think? -Well most tribes are really secluded. -A lot of the ones in the West, -The reason I say that is and he couldn't stay -Why? -He's like, -He didn't like that? That's Indian territory to begin with. so everybody's got at least This used to be a lot bigger. From my understanding the reason we had mounds you would bring dirt from home in a pot. -Okay. -That's why they're finding -So that mound there. This is our mother town, Is we were made from the muds of Patua. -The muds of right over here? -There's two different origins stories, -Okay. -It's Shalu Kinate. -Yeah. So I don't believe in that one, -There are two origin stories here? Yeah, the one I believe in -So that's the Native spiritual one -Yeah. -What percentage -I can't speak for the whole tribe -Okay. Baptists, you know? Mormons were I think they were And so that's why you find a lot of -Hmm. -Because Mormons kept -Oh yeah, they're really good at that. That's what we tell people is go look at Mormons first. If you have Mormons because they kept family Bibles. So... yeah. -They're better than, -Yeah, and Ancestry. -Yeah, the Mormons -Exactly, man... yeah. Boarding school, you were saying -It differs between generations, my grandma would get beat -Okay. The more you go up West or up North the more brutal it gets. -North as in Appalachia? -Hmm. -It could be Washington State, or just as bad a Pennsylvania's. -The boarding schools what about your parent's generation? -They were... there are still -But it's different-- 'Cause my dad, he loved boarding school. -Okay -My grandma hated it, -Okay. -But your dad loved it, why? It was an actual school experience. He wasn't being whitewashed. -Like that had already taken place. -He grew up speaking English? See, I'm very lucky My grandma and uncle, -Yeah. -But where my dad's not around it a lot, -Your dad lost it? somber country [Peter] This is your -Yeah. -This is free housing? -Okay, so they don't have to pay for it -It just depends, income-based. -If you own a home here -Mm-hmm. There's a lot of people and they'll Airbnb it. Because we have People want to come -So they'll get that Airbnb. -So it's just like -You're serious? -This is the worst it gets? -I would say so. Other people would say other places. But it doesn't get much worse than this. -As far as homes and bad neighborhood? -Okay. -I haven't seen anything looking bad. -Now keep in mind, -So it just totally changed -Yeah, it changed drastically. -Our council house right here, 'cause I want to teach you about He's one of 30 Natives He was in World War II -In World War II? -We do have a lot of veterans, You know the movie, We Were Soldiers and he was talking about Vietnam -Yeah. -There was two Cherokees, two brothers, one is my great-uncle, one's my grandpa. -Oh, cool. -So why do so many Cherokees Or it's not so many? -Not anymore because it was -Okay. -It was the opportunity? -And now you don't -No. -So you don't have many -No. That's how it is, guys. In places like West Virginia some of those neighborhoods, you go through town, and that's like one of But that's prime, prime... 'Cause it's a way Killed in action. [Man] Gonna set I sell food out of it, yeah. -Cherokee food? -What do you got going? I got hamburgers, hot dogs, -Good? -You doing the cooking? -Wife in there at all? -No, I don't allow women in my cook shack. -No offense, but... -[Peter] Why they mess it up? I been in this 30 years. I've always worked male crew, during the fall time and if the young guys are playing or a woman can't cook -Why is that? -Interesting, and your -They get very violent. Only thing there is, They have referees They carry a big old long hickory stick. Big long limber limb. Somebody goes to fighting or cussing, And you're matched with a player if he gets hurt or whatever, and he has to go out, -Okay, sir did you grow up here? -It's very beautiful. -I know this isn't a reservation-- -It's a boundary? -No, Cherokee Indian reservation. [Dylan] No, we don't. [Dylan] We own this land... -No, we don't own it. It's gifted to us by the government. -Who bought it back? Oh yeah, but that's why like he's got deeds to his land. -Yeah, we do. -You don't got no deed to your land. -Yep, it's called a life lease. -But I'm from Oklahoma. -Out here in the Eastern Band -It is like that. -If I struck oil or gold on my land the government come in here -The feds do? -If they wanted to. -No, they can't -Out here you're wrong on that, you need to check on ours -My Grandpa is [Cherokee]. -Yeah, well you need to talk with him. He's talked me through it. -It's... We don't own it. -We do. I can pass it on generation to generation. -Okay. -My family owns it long as we own it. But we don't own it -But you can't sell it? -To another Eastern Band I can. -[slaps hands on legs] -You don't agree, okay. So let me ask you this. Why is this reservation so nice? I've been on a lot of 'em, -Probably a little to do with the casino -Yeah. [Dylan] We had to get rid of -Oh, yeah. -We're going back to our roots now [Peter] My friend here [Dylan laughs] -Which means he's From what I've seen -Oh yeah, -[Dylan] Big Cove? -[Dylan] Okay, way up there. -It's probably ten miles from here. About 4,000 feet higher up. [Dylan] Yeah. -[Peter] 4,000 feet higher than here? -It's cool at nights? -All the time, in eight years I've not used my air conditioner -[Dylan] Just open the windows, huh? -You love it here? -Could you imagine living anywhere else? -I lived in New York City for 20 years. -I was a drilling, blasting engineer -Really? -You built subway tunnels in New York? -Wow, why'd you come back? -Just like they say, but you can't take [Dylan giggles] -I ain't got no use for New York City. People ask me if I have a religion. Yeah, I'm religious but in my own way -Yep. -Okay. -When she got out of boarding school She done her sermons in Indian, -Wow. -And my grandpa was a six foot six deacon. My granny was about this tall. [Dylan giggles] Her hair drug the ground about three feet and she brushed it She never shaved her head again either. -You got a nice cut going there. That's the-- -Nah, just the tail. -Not a rat tail but just a tail. When I have a relative I'll give it to 'em when they go. -Oh, that's cool. -Last time I cut it -Okay. Wow. So last question, thank you -You ain't got the bill yet. [all laughing] What would you say is different What would be something -The traditional ways. I've traveled the pow wow circuit, and from other Tribes that I've met we call 'em nations 'cause a lot -You use the word reservation, 'Cause like he said, Which it was, you know, But with a lot of nations, are a lot stronger than a lot of ours. Because to be honest with you, to adapt the white man electoral system. -Okay. -That's why when we it's like any town council, but we just call 'em council and chief. I know how they feel. [Peter] What did you say? -I said, We was sitting on the porch one day She's standing there going like this, She said, &quot;I don't hear nothing.&quot; You don't hear nothing and cry if you decide to leave? Huh-uh. -Your wife's from Jersey? -She's my wife, she's my better half wife. -Okay, better half wife, -Yeah. -How's she like it? I said, &quot;Honey I'm going you coming or you gonna stay?&quot;. &quot;What you gonna do? -How long did it take -'Bout 30 seconds. -Mm-hmm. -Good work, I guess you ten miles from anyone else. -Yeah. -Pretty much. Hell, I told her she can give a slice away [Dylan laughs] Yeah, I can talk trash [Dylan laughs] [Peter] Whatever you wanna say. -It's like when you asked -A lot of people say, I'dda said, &quot;No, I'm not dead yet.&quot; [Dylan giggles] -Where'd you say you was from, -I live in a holler in West Virginia -Well, no wonder. That's where the damn toothbrush -Why is that? -'Cause if it'd been invented [Dylan laughs] -Okay, you're dropping the Cherokee humor. -All right, take care. -Nice to meet you. [Dylan] This is our hospital. Our new facility hospital. This portion's been open -Quite impressive. -Got an ER room here -Yeah. -It's an amazing facility, beautiful too. -So it looks quite empty though. -Is it 'cause it's new and they just -That, and we outsource our patients. -You outsource them where? -To Harris Regional, which is -Why do you outsource if you have this? -'Cause our doctors are not up to par. -Oh, okay... okay. Is it all Cherokee doctors? -Go ahead, sir. -Okay, thanks. [Dylan] Uh, no. -Okay. But to get really good doctors -No. -&quot;If you build it, they will come.&quot; -Nah, it don't work here. -Okay. -It gets really quiet around here, huh? -It's 6:30 and it's pretty empty. -Yeah, man. -Especially for a Monday. -I gotta say, More people are on screens, -That's a thing too, I was like, &quot;Why was you okay with us I didn't even let my daughter out the yard -Yeah. -We are so focused on things that we just get bad news -It's a good point. We just hear about more incidents because of social media -Yeah. -But are the actual levels up -I think it just depends where you're at. -I had no helicopter parenting, -They didn't even know where we were. -&quot;Get home 'fore the sun comes down.&quot; -And now I would wanna raise &quot;Would I want my kid BMX-ing down here? Uh... I don't know. -Exactly, yeah. -I don't know -Then within my culture you have these missing and murdered -So that scares me even more. Yep. -I've told my daughter if someone tries to pick you up. Like, scream, cuss at 'em, I don't care, stab 'em if you got Get out of there. -So there's a real big worry -For me especially, She is my world. -So you're saying it's safe out here, that's the one area -Yeah, I don't know but it seems to be fairly high. -Natives in general. -So what is that? -And it could be with the percentages too of the population. It doesn't take that much -Okay, yeah. -But it seems like the overall numbers -I don't know if they are exactly. But in different reservations you're seeing the signs everywhere [Dylan] This is our location It's gonna be our dispensary. -That whole building? -So all those greenhouses-- -That's cultivation? -This is where it's gonna be sold, -Yeah, exactly. -So what's behind all this? -What do you mean? -Why do you wanna... -We want to test it out and see If it doesn't help then, you know... -Help what though? -If it doesn't help our people, we're not gonna go through with it. -But you're gonna smoke out -It's up to them -Yeah, but what's the... -I understand there's medicinal reasons. -But that's a lot. -But you also gotta think about-- -Okay, so there's drive-ups, look at that. -So you're gonna get -Yeah. -And it's just dispensed right there, -Yeah. -This was just added to it I believe. It was, yeah. -I mean I'm just guessing. -That's a big profit thing I would say. You know, it's a big profit thing. -Okay, so your people have a lot of money. -A lot of them do. -And so this is just -'Cause we don't want What if that goes under? Like I said, after a year we want to see and do our research The crime rate, see if it goes up when they did legalize it. -Okay, so why would you-- -No, no, we don't is it bringing the crime rate up. We're not trying -Okay, I'm just gonna state -Okay, cool. -It's confusing to me to be honest. -I think we're missing something. -Someone will write -Hopefully they will. -Explain that one, please. What's going on? Because it was and something must have happened. you know how I told you -Okay. -That coulda been one of those things. -[Peter] Wow, look at that home. -So there's some serious money out here? -And it's up to you whether you Some people are content -They don't need anything else. Why would I want that? -Right. -Some people like myself are like, &quot;If I can make money, -Okay. So you just have -Amazing house. -So a lot of space too, -Yeah. -This is unbelievable. All within the boundary? [Dylan] This house reminds me I don't know if -Just to reiterate, -Majority of 'em are, Like the Cherokees own them, They might be military, -Okay. Is this guy going for -I wouldn't doubt it. -It's beautiful country out here. -It's breathtaking. So right off that road, -Yeah. -And then it's this off the boundary? -&quot;The Colton Court&quot;, not happening. -So this just smashes all the stereotypes. -Yeah. What people seem to find out the consensus of, &quot;Okay, I had the wrong idea -You can't put them -Can't put a label on anything. -We have it made better than other tribes and people still think we live in poverty. But we're not putting It's not like we're -Okay. -We're not like, And you've been to and I feel for them -Yeah. -That's why I messaged you &quot;Hey, can I show my tribe -We're doing okay for ourselves. I just don't want people Yeah, don't get me wrong, but I'm still Cherokee at the same time. These were our mountains and said these were their mountains. And with our language, you can tell. I asked my elder, -'Cause you go out West, it's monotone. But out here it's not. He said our language -You have a tonal language? -So like Chinese or Thai? -Very cool. Thank you so much, that was awesome. -Yeah, of course. -Dylan... No way we would have -Yeah. -I didn't give him I just want you people to know We were down in the slumps, -Yeah. -Now look at us. Look at our golf course, you know, -Yeah. -And-- -I also want to mention the more I dig in like the deeper the rabbit hole is. Like, been on many Native lands and I had no clue this existed. And they're all so different. -We're a different breed out here. So... -I'm very, very lucky. And I want to thank Peter too Thanks, man. -Because we don't have -Yeah. -Okay. You're coming in the right way -You tell it but let me show it. I get an education and luckily you guys And this can be my life. -Yeah, exactly. -So you're the man, Dylan. Uh, closing thoughts, that was awesome. -People can come out to Cherokee. Anyone can come out to Cherokee, It's beautiful, it's stunning, I have other Native videos Anything else we gotta say? Come the first week of October, We have an annual Cherokee fair It's the biggest thing in town. -Okay. And you get to eat our food, and hear our stories, -And Dylan, lastly, forgot to say. Thank you for doing this -Yeah, 24 hours. -And you made it happen. I'm gonna go home -All right, thanks for coming along Until the next one. somber country