Dear fellow villagers, please give way. Dear fellow citizens, hello , master. Master, what are you doing? Master, we believe you can defeat Hong Tian. We believe you , master, come on, master, come on , master, come on, master, we will win . Master, come on, master , master, come on, master, we will kill . We will kill. I will definitely show you the Kungfu of the Japanese today . Your troops traveled across the sea to invade our China, burning, killing, looting and committing all kinds of crimes. I am here today to avenge my apprentice and let tens of millions of Chinese people express their congratulations. Don't use your words to win a quick victory . The winner is the king, the loser is the bandit. Nonsense, come on, let the devils go , big stop, master, come on, come on, come on, senior brother, master, we will definitely win. Of course, our master is the Taizu of Wuxue. Japanese three-legged kung fu, how can he be the master's opponent ? Come on , master, come on, master, come on, master, come on, master, come on, master, good master, you must win, master, you must win, master, you must win, master, you must win, master, you must win, master must win, let you have a taste of the Chinese master , don't be happy, it's too early, the victory or defeat has not been decided yet What I will make you take orally , ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah, master master , dream, dream, or dream , the master, the master report , haha, you still want to hit me, you are not your opponent or obediently, Songjiang, you think you think you think Can you win me? You are so arrogant . My master defeated your master. You Chinese Kung Fu Four Seas and Five Masters hahaha are all good . You used despicable means to kill my master. I will beat you to death today to avenge my master and beat you to death. Hahaha, come on, hit me , ah, ah, go to hell, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah , ah , lord , Xu Dalei, senior brother, senior brother, senior brother , senior brother, senior brother, what's wrong with you, senior brother, senior brother? Senior Brother, Senior Brother, Senior Brother, hurry up, hurry up, Senior Brother , Senior Brother , Senior Brother, who is the murderer ? Jin Dalei, Qin Dalei, who beat Senior Brother to death. Qin Dalei actually went against me. He must be cut into pieces to avenge Song Jin, Master. What kind of master is this Qin Dalei who is in the same group as Wen Shou? Qin Dalei was scared when he saw us before. Unexpectedly, he beat the senior brother to death this time. He is not the opponent of the senior brother. He is supported by the New Fourth Army. He is a member of the New Fourth Army. The senior brother is Kill them. They also said that they will kill our dojo. As long as you, senior brother, don't die well, that's what he said. Well, these New Fourth Army are so hateful and arrogant . They have repeatedly destroyed our military headquarters and now they kill my senior disciple. I want to Kill every one of them, put down the gun, you are not too late , you can see the last of him with your own eyes. Brother Cai, brother Cai, is the same year , and you finally came. It's a pity that today, you are destined to come or not. It depends on you , who will die and who will live. I still don't know. Humph , you do n't overestimate your abilities , ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ! What's going on with Big Thunder ? It's so sweet. You killed my beloved disciple. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah , thunder, thunder, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah , yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah