So a lot of you requested mind boggling It's a massive multi level structure to tens of billions of people At the top, you have the elite. And below into this under hive, primal forms, The more I look at it, a sick, parasitic cancerous while the people feed off the city The architecture in this disturbing, It's almost a caricature it makes you wonder, Is this architectural or does it show a glimpse when it's forced to think about nothing A portion of this Hive cities and they're set on these planets And it paints a picture of a society First of all, there's this constant war It's also sprawling with factories and it's extremely dense, But the population just keeps growing. And as it grows, they have no choice because they're constrained a lot of the resources we looked at compare Hive City which is a blend of architecture the movement started in the sixties In essence, it's density city that's contained They would have everything you need malls, entertainment, schools And by compacting everything It could be very efficient and also have This is one of the few attempts And although Arcosanti in the end, it's And it doesn't come nearly as close of a city that evolves and functions You might have seen this building a.k.a Noah. And it's kind of the poster child In addition to being an archeology, So it's a floating archeology This is the Shimizu mega-city pyramid. And here we have Norman Foster, But most of these projects never became a reality because it's But when you look at the grand vision of our ecology, It's high density, it's self-sustaining but it's the dystopian version. And the ironic part is in Hive Cities, it's the structure that actually leads For example, all the rich people, They live at the base they live Apparently, they're also forced to consume down from the top It doesn't make recycling sound So in high cities, the structure itself between the classes And it turns things like light and fresh air into luxuries. But I think it actually addresses with some of these new vertical megacity For example, in the LINE project in Saudi Arabia, It's an entire city contained in a single megastructure But that means the people at the lower have little to no access to daylight. Naturally, creating the social divide. Also, how cities lead to a complete ecological collapse from the massive toxic So it's kind of the opposite But I think the biggest difference which archeology doesn't really address. It kind of assumes that the population contained in the single structure Or maybe it's designed more for the short But in that case, there's a concept in architecture to rapid and unregulated It started in Japan in the 1950s, with a huge influx of people to try to solve this problem. A group of Japanese architects It looks at the city as a living, that could expand and react to changes. They reference biological organisms and a lot of the designs were systems and modular adaptable units and even retract like branches and leaves. These proposals were pretty wild. This one had these mega spines with residential modules that could be added or sunk this one took a more vertical approach. but again with spines that would allow for these residential capsules And maybe if five cities were planned with a structure We would have ended up with something But at the same time, never actually got built because it was really complex plug in and plug out but it means you need to fabricate them to attach them every time they experience Meaning you would need the construction the regulating bodies and the transportation systems And even for the Japanese, And I think we can all agree the Japanese are the best people in the world So imagine how hard it was for these hive pee water every day to try to build In fact, this chaotic and sporadic might lend itself better Hold on a sec. Let me double check, bud. I want to take a quick break to show you It's called Opera and it comes And it has this thing called lucid mode the levels of sharpness I love how it organizes You can store different workspaces, and here you can store You can also collapse your tabs Islands are kind of like folders, to be organized. it's a great example of how good, well-thought-out design It also has an integrated A.I. in the browser called ARIA, which comes with parameters So you can tweak it for specific tasks, or you can Trina to write like you I really appreciate the amount of thought to make everything Is totally free. So try it out because even small changes when it's a tool Apparently hive cities start their lives around this settlements get built around this core And as these cities grow, and they eventually deplete the planet at an urban level, because people You also get a condition where buildings structures attach to each other or factories, which can lead to the collapse of buildings At the societal level, The poor feed off the scraps We rely on the labor from below. So how cities is parasitic in nature of its host and in of itself. And one of is that because they depend on the host to the point of harm, and this relentless cycle of exploitation Kind of eerie, right? But the parasitic architecture movement. Yes, that's a real thing. And it forced our researcher to look at a lot of really gross It doesn't necessitate In fact, it has very humanitarian roots. This is one of the first built instances which became popular in the sixties It's a nursery that hung off the facade because the family couldn't You know, when you look at a problem let's see the housing just build it with this. Why do we have to go through and through these people and these people This was an architectural manifestation because these structures and they typically resisted It was kind of an architectural middle There were definitely stylistic where architects just tried to design structures that were in complete But a lot of the projects were also to solve real social problems, that meet possible by attaching or using a billboard to act as a partial But can you imagine what cities would have looked like actually. While in high cities, these parasitic There's actually parts of the war That's a reference to this blackout period and with this uncontrolled the whole structure will eventually fail. apparently hive quakes are common are just smashed under the sheer killing So hive cities embody a paradox. The more they grow, the more they implode In biology. There's this phenomenon called autophagy. It's a process tissue, often in response But this self-feeding mechanism for it to clear out the damaged parts Hive cities but in the context of survival, it's It reminds me of this economic theory Imagine a small, lush pasture as soon as you introduce a couple more, There's more poop on the land It gradually degrades. This affects all the sheep, and if this continues, The tragedy is that in most cases they have no choice and I think it's made even more tragic because it speaks And Hive City is the architectural But according to Sam Altman, of abundance where all of our basic needs And A.I. is going to provide Maybe we're not even going separating us even further But as we become more what happens if A.I. decides to stop helping us? will our instincts come back? Maybe even stronger than before? even stronger than before? even stronger than before? even stronger than before? Even stronger than before. Okay. I want to go ahead. Forgot to tell us we got that from what do you guys think? Let us know in the comments. And thanks for suggesting Hive cities. It was pretty dark but interesting. Also, we have a Discord server will leave the links in the description. And with that, a portion of this