Transcriber: Wenjer Leuschel I have a confession to make. I talked to myself all the time when I'm by myself and when I'm And I know I'm not the only person in this Anyone else know? Okay. Thank you. Well, self-talk is what makes Our ability to talk to ourselves, and to think about our thinking is what Self-talk is like our brain's Just like a computer's operating system. Self-talk is constantly running in Managing our thoughts, our feelings, Self-talk is our internal narrator. It helps us make sense of the world and the lens of our values, beliefs, But just like a computer, self-talk in our and bugs. This happens all the time, and a lot of times we don't even know that And this is because our brain tries it often oversimplifies catastrophize and creates rules of thumb that aren't Self-talk can create self-defeating sabotage our most important ambitions, and confirm pre-existing negative beliefs and aren't even true, leading to unhealthy Researchers at Penn State University asked their worries every day for ten days. Then they made these poor participants for another month, just to see The result, a whopping 91.4% of their fears never materialized. So what Self-talk at its worst can It can wreak havoc on our minds, and take us away from actions that are situations forward. If you've the unproductive effects then I have great news for you. Just like we can update a computer's we can shape and refine our self-talk a few key shifts. I'll teach How many thoughts do you think we I want to hear your guesses. Uh, somebody said 3 million. That's pretty So researchers have been very interested And earlier studies have cited anywhere The. More recently, researchers at Queen's thoughts that we have about They called these thinking And it turns out that on average, we Try taking an inventory of your thoughts a few times a day. You might be surprised negative thoughts outweighed Also, their negative thoughts tended to essentially playing this negative and day again. So why does and where does our self-talk come from? Self-talk stems from early experiences primarily due to our attachment bonds. Attachment, at its most basic level, refers to those first emotional bonds we Our primary caregivers are people for looking after us on a daily basis, Without their support, we Mammalian babies are cute No one would stick around if we weren't. Our baby cuteness involving large eyes, chubby cheeks. All of this is to entice our We need them to stay with us, So this is why we put up with the stinky with the no sleep. This is why we need From our very first days, we start a series of experiences and memories and our primary caregivers, we These first years are a important, crucial period for brain development And during this time, through we learn how to communicate our needs, and whether we feel safe physically Oftentimes, when we're in the we don't realize their impact, but experiences that are repeated and reinforced over time create important the foundation of our core beliefs. What we believe about ourselves, and how we tackle life's challenges. And because of our brain's favoring We come to believe that the way that we the way that we should cope in the future. So in other words, our attachment operating systems and serve as the basis And it turns out most of us identify If your primary caregivers were generally showed up in helpful ways, especially you likely developed secure attachment. People with secure attachment tend to hold They actualize towards their goals. They can be independent and stay connected and they generally deserve good things in Conversely, if your parents were showed up in unhelpful ways, or seemed stressed or overwhelmed when you likely developed insecure attachment. There are three forms of this, people with insecure attachment have difficulty self-actualizing They're a little They tend not to believe in and whether they deserve loving and And a recent study by YouGov shows that identify with one of these three Your brain's operating system may but the bugs and glitches tend to come, it is the most crucial, urgent, When you're faced with a novel and challenging experience where you're and even when our self-talk unproductive, causes us stress and pain, it can still be hard to break free so much of what we've come to know. But here's an important and its positive outcomes can We can flip the script on your and it all starts with learning what In my clinical experience with patients, I found that each of the four attachment carries with it its own People with reassurance and closeness with others, sometimes at the expense They're more prone to codependent The self-talk of the anxiously attached or more of these four self statements. "I'm not as worthy as others." "I need to rescue everyone." "I fear being on my own." "I have to analyze everything." People with avoidant attachment are They value extreme self-sufficiency. They tend to be uncomfortable and tend also not to emphasize the importance of relationships The self-talk of the avoidantly attached "I'm only as good as my last achievement." "I must be in control at all times." "I keep others at arm's length." "When the going gets tough. People with disorganized attachment a perpetual state of fight or flight. They have difficulty regulating and sometimes unconsciously replicate the People with disorganized attachment something like this. "I deserve to suffer." "I hate you. Don't leave me." "I can't control my emotions" "My life is in constant chaos." If any of what I said above and if you've ever been prone to the damaging effects of these then what I'm about to share with you next what would I say today. No matter what How long you've been operating And how much disappointment It's never too late to heal your Maybe you've been after that elusive chasing comfort, fulfillment, and Thinking to yourself, if I just just got that perfect partner, just Yet time and again, that and you find that whatever fix you sought and its positive effects And that's because you've been looking in all the wrong places. The truth is, you only need one person with whom To see all of your goals in life, actualize and be what you And here's a secret. It all starts with a secure Reparenting, or the conscious act of and understanding that you is all about becoming the but may not have had. While you can't change the past, and this is not about blaming your parents You can choose to meet the needs That metaphorical little you whose hopes, aspirations and dreams are still Reparenting works because simply to meet the needs of your inner child. This makes it the ideal situation a secure attachment relationship. Your adult self has much more agency, self-directedness and resources than your who had to learn to cope within the confines of depending on those around them to provide No one knows you better the wisdom of your unique And this is why your inner parent is the most vital tool to creating healthier You can start reparenting today intentional acts that are designed to This is because thoughts, behaviors, If you behave differently, you'll think and feel differently. Through your behaviors, your self-talk and your rules for life. So what does Reparenting look like? Each time you establish healthy boundaries that's reparenting. Each time you the little small steps along the way, Each time you prioritize your needs Each time you cultivate meaningful and healthier connections with others, Each time you listen to your inner child no matter what, that's reparenting. Each time you consciously engage in Each time you forgive yourself of past That's reparenting. Each time you make no matter what anyone else thinks, Each time you remind yourself you are That's reparenting. Each time you know in your heart that you I hope our time today has inspired you and empowered you to make positive The gifts of secure attachment. One that is based in a secure self concept challenges with vigor, consistency is yours for the taking. And I can't wait to see what Now, as we close, I'd like us to practice your operating system. Let's adopt the securely attached by choosing one of for today. Write it down. Post it in a place Say it to yourself and visualize yourself "I believe in and like myself." "I can handle what comes my way." "I can affect positive "I can be independent and Each of us has thousands How will you use your self-talk to spark Thank you.