Translator: Sasha Serov So, there's a myth And that myth is that children are exceptionally good and that we lose that gift We have good reason Many of us have had this experience. We've picked a language studied hard for three, four, five years, and then we take a trip to France, and we meet a five-year-old French child, and she speaks way better (Laughter) And it's not fair. I mean, we have struggled so hard, and she has never and yet here she is And you're right. It's not fair. It's not fair because you are who has had 15,000 hours and you have had 100, maybe 200, maybe 50. It depends upon how much of your classes instead of in English When you make the fair comparison - you take a five-year-old child, give them 500 hours of exposure there; adult gets a job in Spain, what you'll find is that the adult We are better at learning We are smarter than them. We've learned how to learn. It's one of the perks of growing up. That's not to say there are there are three. Between the ages of 6 months children can hear sounds in new languages Significant advantage there. Advantage two, children are fearless. They will walk into any conversation, where we will hold ourselves Huge advantage. Yet neither of those two advantages The third advantage of being a child We don't have 15,000 hours And so, to succeed at this, we need something that works better And to talk about I want to talk about some I began my language learning in kindergarten and elementary school. I studied for seven years, and at the end of those I could read the Hebrew ... alphabet. (Laughter) So I try it again. In junior high and high school, I went to a high school with really good teachers, and so I took Russian I studied hard; I did well on my tests; I did all of my homework; and at the end I could read the Russian alphabet. I retained, maybe, 40 words, that this whole language thing And then I made a poor decision. I was always a science nerd. I loved science and engineering; I wanted to be a nuclear engineer, so I could make fusion reactors. That was my thing as a kid. But I had this hobby, I sang musical theater and opera. And as I was applying I applied to one that had &quot;Wouldn't it be weird to study opera Wouldn't that be out there?&quot; And so I did. One of the side effects of that For that opera degree, I needed And a French friend of mine &quot;Hey, you know, you can get at this school in Vermont.&quot; And I thought, &quot;That sounds great.&quot; So I signed right up for this program. And the way this program works is that you sign a contract It says that if I speak one word if I write anything, if I read anything, if I listen to a voicemail I will get kicked out And I thought, (Laughter) And so I went, and I realized that I did not and so, I stopped talking. (Laughter) And someone came up to me, and he said, &quot;Hallo, ich heisse Joshua. Wie heisst du?&quot; And I said, &quot;Eh?&quot; (Laughter) And he said, &quot;Hallo, ich heisse Joshua. Wie heisst du?&quot; And I said, &quot;Ich heisse Gabriel?&quot; And I learned German that way. Seven weeks later, I could and I became addicted to the feeling And so, I went back the following summer In 2007, I moved to Vienna, Austria, In 2008, I went to Perugia, Italy, And in 2010, I cheated on a French test. And that's where all of this comes from. You see, I wanted to go back to because, in a sort of it was actually kind of fun. And they had a Level 1 for people which was appropriate for my level, but they also had Level 1.5 And I thought, this was my third language. Italian is close to French. I can probably manage 1.5. So they sent me a placement test online, and I cheated on it as much I figured me not knowing French might get me in Level 1.5. And so, I used to cheat on the multiple-choice section. I wrote an essay in Google Translate (Laughter) I sent it off. I didn't think about any more of it. And three months later I got an email, and that email said, &quot;Congratulations! You did really well We're placing you (Laughter) &quot;You have three months. In three months, we're going to put We'll talk to you for about 15 minutes to make sure you did not like cheat on your placement test.&quot; (Laughter) And so, I panicked. And when I panic, I go to the internet because, clearly, someone there and as it turns out, there were There are these systems called They're basically like flashcards. You know those cards with, like, These are computerized versions of these, but they test you right before you forget so they're extremely efficient. Now, what people use is they use them with translations. And I knew from my experiences that that wasn't going to work for me, and so I did something else. And to explain that, The first word, we learn in a classroom. We're learning Hungarian. Our teacher comes to the board. She writes fenykepezogep And then she writes and says, &quot;This will be You'll have a quiz The second word, You are on an adventure You're in Scandinavia. You find yourselves in an old bar. There are six grizzled old patrons. You sit at the bar, and the barkeep, He has a giant red beard, and he is smiling at you as he puts out three shot glasses and on the bottle you see written as the barkeep says, &quot;Moktor&quot; and starts pouring something And it's a sort of green liquid, it's a kind of brownish yellowish And he puts the bottle away, From the white jar, he starts spooning From the scent, you realize as he repeats, &quot;Moktor,&quot; and all the patrons now are turning The barkeep now pulls out a match. He lights it, he lights and he repeats, &quot;Moktor,&quot; as all of the patrons now start chanting And your friend, your stupid friend, he picks up his shot glass and he blows it out, and he drinks it. And the barkeep, he blows his out, and he drinks it. And now everyone is staring at you, chanting &quot;Moktor! Moktor!&quot; And you pick up your glass - and you blow it out - and you scream &quot;Moktor!&quot; And it's the worst thing And you will remember (Laughter) where you have already forgotten (Laughter) Why? Memories are fascinating things. They're not stored in any particular they're actually stored in the connections When you saw that glass, you saw the bottle and the barkeep said, &quot;Moktor,&quot; that sound and that spelling, they interconnected; Those connections connected the sound of moktor getting poured the sound of everyone chanting All of those sounds and that spelling, they interconnected, They connected to images They connected to the shot glasses. They connected to this decaying fish. They connected that Viking face, And those, in turn, like that awful taste in your mouth, the heat of the fire. Those connect to emotional content: to disgust, to anger at your friend, They connect to your journey. They connect to what is alcohol, what is friendship, what is adventure. All of these things and they make it so that that word where the Hungarian word for camera, well, you don't even remember This non-memory isn't associated and the sound of a shutter, and the feelings you get No, those associations exist; they're connected to another word, But fenykepezogep has And so, you can't hold on to it. So what can you do with this? Well, let's return My situation was as follows: I was taking two master's degrees, and so I had six days of class a week. My only free time Sundays, and Austrian national holidays, And during that time, I did one thing: I built and reviewed flashcards in one of these computerized But instead of using translations I began with pictures. If I wanted to learn then I would search and I would find that French bloggers Their dogs were smaller and cuter (Laughter) And so, I used these dogs to learn chien and built a vocabulary out of these pictures And as I built that vocabulary, And I started learning abstract words using fill-in-the-blank sentences. If I wanted to learn a word, like, I would use a story. Yesterday, I blank to school - And so, I learned And then, three months later, And I found myself in this room who began our conversation with &quot;Bonjour.&quot; And then, the first thing &quot;Bonjour.&quot; And she started speaking to me in French, and I realized I understood and what's more, I knew what to say back. And it wasn't fluent; but this was the first time and I was speaking in French, and we had a 15-minute conversation, and at the end of this conversation, &quot;You know, there something wrong It says you should be but we're placing you And so, over the next seven weeks, I read 10 books, and by the end of that summer, And I realized that I had found And so I started writing about it and tinkering. In 2012, I learned Russian. I had my revenge on that language. In 2013 through 2015, I learned Hungarian. In 2015, I started Japanese, came back, and started Japanese again In each of these experiences, I learned ways of tweaking the system but the overall concept If you want to learn then you need to give that language life. Every word needs to connect and scents and tastes and emotions. Every bit of grammar can't be some kind of it needs to be something And if you do this, you will find that the words and the grammar, it begins to stick too. And you start to realize that you don't need some gift from God to accomplish this. This is something that everyone has both the time and the ability to do. Thank you. (Applause)