Select your preferred language subtitles Give me that horse. He couldn't go on You're injured man. I gotta go on. Gotta get to We'll take you. Sorry, closed down for the night. I know, but this is urgent... No. Come out of there, you! Can't go against the schedule. Can't you make this one exception? Get in here. Bring a light with you. You can't do this to me. The Union Pacific Night prowling round here, You've got your gall busting Who do you think you're anyway? You can write it, Here let me! Territorial Recorders office, have filed corner stakes... ...on plots 234... 235. Chart 1089, ...that's all. Quirt Evans. All sent, Mr. Evans. Why! He ain't dead, is he? No just knocked out! That's Quirt Evans... Look at his gun, see how many Not any that I can see. might wake up and he was deputy of Wyatt Earp ...the two of them shot it out So, that's Quirt Evans... ...he's quite a man .it says he closed the eyes ...opened the eyes Would you call Yes! ma'am... Where are you taking him? Quirt Evans? I'd just a soon have a black powder Heavy, ain't he? I know of a dozen men ...to catch Quirt Evans I'm worried about you people... ...I know you don't believe in guns or Take my advice... I'd stay plenty far away Thank you very much for your advice. Good night. So long, Quirt. That Quirt Evans Quirt Evans? Do I know Quirt Evans? What a question! Quirt: No... No... If that doesn't quiet him... ...never get that bullet out of him I'm afraid to give him any more sedative, Please be quiet... He can't hear you. What do you suppose that He must be in great pain As if he was reaching for something. I don't understand. By now he Quirt: No. Thomas, how is the young man? A gun in this house, Thomas? Please put these back in the gun belt... Maybe we'll have to get something Are you crazy? That was it. A Gun. It's stupid! These wild ones ...and setting their bones, why? It's their destiny to wind up on boot hill. No! I forgot! Never speak evil, Eh! Well, get me some more hot water Start patching him up for Come on, help me with his boots. Mother... Tell me again. What Dear? Thee have heard that He was working on the roof of ...he fell off, and I picked him up He always said that I hugged him And you both knew right away? Of course I knew he ...a member of the society. An evil man will seek a more profitable ...than being a member Father, had a beard then, didn't he? I should think that I prefer a man clean shaved. He's got the constitution of a Barring blood poisoning. These wild ones never seem ...though it's common enough You so called Atheists. You always feel Wash him. He's in no danger. I bet he killed a lot of people. How do thee know? ...a &quot;friend&quot; doesn't speak Mrs. Worth, get that But he's badly injured, This isn't civilized Pennsylvania... ...this is the raw frontier. This is the place where mayhem, theft ...instead of the unusual. Would that justify leaving Build you house by the side of the road Ye who believe. I don't mind your mocking us, I'm glad I have And a good heart. Goodnight. Still having delirious spells. ...I'm afraid he's had [Quirt mumbling]: ...cover my bet on the black ace... ...you're a shapely hussy... ...you get real conformation, Margaret... ...you fill out that dress just right... ...red's your color... ...alright Margaret... ...chart 1089... ...1089... ...Margaret you're a nuisance! ...I've got places to go and ...sure, sure, alright... ...Lila... Lila... ...Lila.. ...if I owned a mint... ...I use to smoke corn silk ...your hair is just like that, Lila... ...lite brown, yellow all mixed up... ...all gold... Will you bring some Here the doctor says that he's Just sleeping ...Penny considers him her Sit down. Will you bring some milk dear? And when you finish you can while you card your He doesn't need watching. He has no ...just a superlatively healthy animal. ...restoring his depleted strength with But of course, if you're determined ...perhaps you better take a ...his first conscious words It may be of great interest And more possibly to Who knows what violence is involved Would you care for a donut, doctor? They're not as light as it should be. ...you can carry this just so far in the ...let me get this man I can dump him in an establishment ...in this off times dubious In Madame Sanitary hobble? But he's much better off here Who cares what happens to him? I don't know what to say? Once when I was studying ...I had a friend, He drew portrait's of people resemble the animals He would have drawn this man Doctor, your analogies terribly imperfect Cobras don't coil Doctor, we are so fond of thee We assured that you ...that realism untempered by ...is really just a mean hard cold A frightened outlook. I stand defeated. And furthermore there are ...that I feel as if I'm living in But don't hesitate to call on me Hello. You're awake? What is all this? Where am I? Don't you remember? Father and I Is anything wrong? The doctor says you will be alright You were delirious you know? Oh maybe that's why I could eat a yearling steer... ...if I can catch one We will get you something. Mother! Mother, he's awake. Hungry! If he's hungry, Thanks a lot for housing. Smoked sausages and eggs? Sounds great. I would like 6. Penny, get one of your father's I'll go get him some food... So I talked a lot. I listened only because say something that would ...notifying your wife What did I say? What did I talk about? You talked of Margaret, ...fell out of a red dress... What else? Oh, you mentioned someone Is that all? If you have a wife, No wife. That's 12. I haven't been so flattered won first prize at the fair They must be smart Some of the members thought it's an But what harm can there be ...unless, one eats so many which is likely to happen ...well there's worst ways I'll help you with the dishes. I'm curious to know a pound of sausage I'll call thee in Do all you people from Pennsylvania Like what? &quot;Thee.&quot; We're &quot;Friends&quot;. &quot;Friends&quot; of who? The society of &quot;Friends&quot;. Oh! It's a religion. That on the wall... &quot;Each human being has an ...&quot;by the act of that &quot;...And not by the act of Is that Quaker stuff? You mean nobody can That's what the &quot;Friends&quot; believe. Well suppose somebody whacks you ...won't that hurt? But in reality, it would injure only the Only the doer can be hurt by Are there many of you Quakers? Sort of figured that. Good morning gentlemen. Carrot from our garden. I found these out It belongs to a fella I understand you're maybe you can see to it Leave it here. I'll make sure That Quirt, he'd loose his shirt ...careless about everything. I keep telling him, On second thoughts you can just I can take it on back to him, myself. You mean where is he? Ever notice how fella keep when he's stalling Yeah! Maybe if I bend this gun over But gentlemen, He lies too. You've been bragging all over town You know, this fella ain't got Sit down, friend. Maybe that will help your memory Well all I know is... Thanks for sewing the shirt... ...but I can't find my pants. Get back in bed. Laziness is the only thing The doctor said that you're to stay Oye, you're up. That's no way to speak We're pals... ...you wouldn't expect a pal See, doctor said to tell you that some ..Said one of them is Get my pants. Johnny, get me my pants. Will thee get my pants? Get the pants, But you said, What are you looking at? Oh boy, it's a good thing What set him off? &quot;Thee&quot; is a familiar term. The familiar, the plain language. What about it? Oh, among us, &quot;thee&quot; and &quot;thou&quot; are used ...to all others, we use ...mother to children, husband to wife Between lovers of course. I'm sorry. What? I'm not! I wished thee would Well. I knew right away. It's supposed to be I could take you I'd go. I would rather stay but if thee rather go someplace else, I sound very bold? Well, it's just that... ...I didn't think religious people Well that's the way I feel and it would Yeah! I used to wonder about it, About what? About love...... About whether or not you got to know ...or it happened at once... Thee are shocked.... Well, I wouldn't say shocked exactly.... ...you sure get to the point. No, Penny, I like you Who emptied this gun? Quirt, a gun is a symbol of force, evil. It's a concession that father It's only because you couldn't rest without... Outside. Hey! Why don't we Because busting through doors with ...ain't my idea Tell them to &quot;come in&quot;. &quot;Come in.&quot; You can stand right there. ...against the light. Howdy, Quirt. You sure ran a ring I don't think it was right ..to locating that tract I'm willing to listen I'm a reasonable man. Sure, Laredo is always reasonable That's why he's the biggest man You're the biggest man So a lot of people say. You nervous? I can't figure out, why you keep But, that's your business. I'm a good loser. ...I like a good loser. Course I like any kind of loser ...yeah! You know I had a chance to while I was following your I followed it by the string of Well, I figured it out this way. Quirt, don't really Because working isn't [Quirt]: No, of course not. I was getting And well, I figured maybe you'll sell. I don't hear anything jingle. Is it alright to put my hand Why not? $5,000 in gold there. I want 20. Well okay, but I have to owe you 15, I have the deed in my pocket, here Now, if the young lady could find us Still Laredo's hired boy, Picking up after him, You mind yourself. ... Won't you Hondo? ..Would you mind taking this over Thank you. You know, I'm sure glad to see ...we heard you were Sorry to disappoint you. You come on over and get the Anytime, that you feel I'll see you one Well... ah, Saddle up my horse, will you kid? What would have happened if they It would have been: &quot;Saturday Tie on my slicker too. Sorry. What kind of a boarder You can't do that. We'd have tended You don't believe in force, so you I'm afraid you're outwitted, How long I have been here? Kinda hate to get going. But you can't. Your leg! Don't worry, your cooking has me Adios, amigos. Quirt. Shall I pack my things? Why? I got places to go... Quirt, I didn't care, it doesn't make I know so little... ...I didn't know that it could happen ..I thought it always That isn't it. It isn't? Well... Look, Penny... ...I'm not that kind of guy I gotta look before I leap. You can ask anybody, ...Quirt Evans is a Oh then, it's just that thee Yeah! Please stay. It's all saddled, Quirt. Unsaddle it. You gonna stay? A double eagle! Well there is something that I A favor. A big favor. Will you ride past my Because a lot of boys who don't Sure. Everybody says that you're the Well, there are those A man should be able to do after a breakfast like that. Well, see that thee do it... Penny, where is the bucket? I declare Penny, I don't know Funny thing about pan cakes ...I lose my appetite for them They weren't very good Wild Indian... put water There's always work round Thee wanted to be a farmer, Not any more, [Rooster Crows] Surely you could walk to What? It balances me, one leg is longer ...you know the weight. [Rooster Crows] Throw the cows There's the pitch fork. Before I was 15, I learned to ...I swore I would leave ploughs I'll do it. No, I'll do it. Thee... Nothing... just... Penny! Why you wanted hay, didn't you? 15. Better put this little one 16. Now get a bucket of water. Water, water. No force. Say, wasn't this place irrigated? I see all these flumes Frederick Carson Frederick Carson? He's the man who bought who couldn't make a go of it. We had built a community dam, Whatcha you do about it? Of course. We didn't pray for water. Carson turned off the water Of course. Can't you see? By committing an evil act I'm glad there's a well. Cause it sure gets thirsty ...if we had to wait for Carson. Penny. Nothing. Be sure you don't leave any Boss will sure howl... This ain't the first pony ...he'd squawk no matter He's sure getting mean these days, You can take it as his natural born. That boil on his neck don't Get out of my way. You belong behind a plough. Who's Carson? Don't get down. We ain't taking Are you deaf? Nice dam. Take out the top two planks. What did you say? The top two. There are 16 inches Who says so? And who might you be when Quirt Evans. Well anybody might ride up here He ain't known round Anybody can say Sure could. There's a &quot;Q. E.&quot; Well, take the top planks out of I don't need all that extra water. Step up on that pony. Now, look here Mr. Evans, I've done You sure did. Well, I'm the kind of fella who tries to Side me. Maybe we better take off a cause I have 10 times That will do for now. Well, if you ever need more, Mr. Evans, I figured that... Hey, Mom! Water! Water, water! Mother, look at the flow. Water! Water! Thomas! Let's start off from the scratch... ...you got more water than you need. Absolutely right, Quirt, Do you mind if I call you &quot;Quirt&quot;? Not a bit... So it's no skin off your moccasins if Absolutely no Mr. Evans... You're going to be neighborly or not? That's the way to talk. Thomas! Frederick Carson. We always knew you would Yes ma'am, Thank you Frederick, all of us here Well, it's like what I ain't got any use Why shouldn't let my I believe that neighbors What have you got there on your neck? Mrs. Worth, I have wrestle with Have you tried putting soap into it? No, ma'am. I ain't. You get down for a minute and into You are going to hurt me? Well, looks like your prayers So you think your gun changed Who says I pointed a gun? I do. He gave in more easily Thee remember this Quirt: &quot;The lord moves in ...at times using strange methods Me? I just get a gnawin' hankerin' after Frederick Carson! I want you to have these, they're awfully good with Makes me to go home You just come back for more anytime Thanks. Goodbye, Frederick. A man outta see more Wonderful woman that Mrs. Worth... [Mother]: Excuse me. But I think father You know, he already I know, but now I think, he wants to Hold my pondering when I get aboard. Mrs. Worth is going to keep me ... I ought to bring her a quarter of beef Finally, come to an understanding You sure did. Oh! You knew I was scare to death, ...I'm glad you made me do it. Adios, amigo. Dinner. What's the dinner Roast venison, vegetables, and With the pie and cake Chicken or venison?. Oh, thee do? New dress. Oh! It's first day. Quirt, do me a favor, Sure. And will you do me Go for a ride with us. You're not to ask, Hey Quirt! He knows, Thought you weren't allowed Quirt, there is nothing we're ...it's just we don't believe That makes it pretty much Each fell knows, inside. There's a lot of gents I wouldn't I didn't mean to Is a fella named Quirt Evans Yes, I'll get him. Never mind. Has he been here long? About 3 weeks I guess. He didn't disappear for say No. Penny, this is Wistful McLintock... Hiya Miss! Don't let that grey hair fool you. Hello, Quirt. I thought I had Tall fella. Fast with a gun held up Well, you're tall and some say ..but I guess, I'll have to take When you and Laredo Stevens going to Laredo? We water our horses out of the Well, I'm sure looking forward You know, I'm a figuring man... ...sometimes I don't know ...like that fella Handy man with a colt... ...while he was acting as Wyatt Earp's ...one day turns in his badge, and starts to build himself Suddenly he sells out Why? That's what I Sometimes things connect. About that time a fella, ...went down in front of ...Walt was reaching for his gun, some say a gambler standing there ...maybe that's connected... How did you stand I knew him. Two things connected? I know a lot of people. Well, I'll figure it out... ...I usually do. Little lady, don't be looking at him... with your eyes all bugged out l ...there ain't no future in it. Quirt, please stay away He owes me money. And don't worry That would be even worse. Worse! Would it be worse if he Of course not, Oh, I'll be a guy Don't make it sound so crude, Quirt, Alright I won't It's better this way ...every time he opens his door, every time he hears footsteps ...Laredo starts sweating, ...his food won't set well Well alright, if I'm going to be holy You know I feel like such a gadabout. It seems hardly a whole week Hey Quirt! I thought it was you. Well, well, well Mister and Mrs. Worth, How do you do Just fine, thank you. Well, well, well... We don't want to keep you I'm not in no hurry. I've got no place to go. Would ye care to come along with us? To a meeting. Yes, to meeting. It would be nice if he could. You would? You know ma'am... I remember one time we were chasing ...herd stampeded, Quirt pulled me out And there was another time remember? We're late. Good bye. If you can join us it is in the grove, Thank you ma'am. Get along. &quot;Why asketh thou me concerning &quot;One who is and who isn't. &quot;...keep the commandments. &quot;He sayeth unto him 'which?' &quot;Thou shalt not kill ... &quot;...thou shalt not steal... &quot;...thou shalt not bear false witness... &quot;...honor thy father &quot;and thou shalt love thy neighbor What comes out of this thing Frozen pudding. Hello, Nelson. Nelson, meet Quirt Evans. - How do you do? Nelson's our horse shoer. By the way I brought that Oh, excuse me, I'll put it here. Isn't this the Morgan baby? He sure is a cute little fella. Looks just like his father. I'm coming up next week Oh, Fine. I'll get some water. Here, twirl this thing. Frozen pudding. Hold him a minute, Quirt, Sick or something? I don't believe it. It's a baby. Is it old enough to talk? If it can't talk, I've got something I think Laredo Stevens ...he's going to jump that are moving a trail herd I figured, it maybe you, me and You heard me, You can have What am I listening to? You passing up a chance That's right. What's the matter with you Quirt? Oh, the Jane.... Sticking in your head into this bucket You are awful touchy lately... you never Hello. Come along with the water, Quirt. Shut up. Quirt, would you Sit down. May I have your attention? Friends, we all know the purpose As always to give thanks to the ...but also to give thanks for particular ... and the crops and There are two marsh's ...if you take a look from out there, you [Mr. Worth]: Friends... We are happy to present you with this This is &quot;Quirt Evans&quot;. We are happy to have him here with us, ...which reaffirms our belief... ...that all men are good He persuaded &quot;Frederick Carson&quot; ...by showing him, that a man who is a happy man himself. May I shake your hand, I want to talk to you. This will sound like I'm butting And you outta give me a watch You dim witted nail bender! Marry her? Why sure, you know..., How would she know? Stop yamering about shoeing horses Talk to her about her. Hey! Listen to this..... &quot;And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, &quot;the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, &quot;who had done many acts of valor, &quot;slew two men of Moab and &quot;...went down and slew 3 lions in the Whoo! Three lions! &quot;And Benaiah slew an Egyptian &quot;He took away his sword and I guess that must mean Oh, brother this is good writing. What about the Bible? You can't throw it away, Then keep it. Alright. This is one book, I would better take you back Why did Quirt leave I don't know... Hey Bob! Right on time. Let's saddle up men. Let's get out of here. Look! Coming down Come on... Hey Quirt, I think I hear them. Yeah! I don't know how I You know you're very strange. On account your head works. Much nicer this way.... You know anybody can ...you think of an interesting ...and you know Quirt! Remember I shot a waddie I dreamed about it, Then of course, there's always witnesses, Stop jabbering and let's go. Settle down, Then again, I figured you may about shooting it out with Laredo Step up on that horse. Maybe you're just crowding Laredo Gonna saving him for the big night Hey... look! Let's go. Take the outsider, Dennis. Start turning them, Hondo. I ain't, Hondo. That's a horse like Quirt has... Yeah! That's just who it is. Next time we face... Wipe those new boots off You know that champagne maybe ..But sure it don't give To tell you the truth. I don't really like it. How do you like it? Tickles going down and it's expensive. You sleepy Tommy? Tired? Worried or maybe Not a chance baby. I wish I had that in writing. You know it's a long time ...my hair reminded you of corn silk. Alright! Your hair reminds All golden, darling? All golden. You have changed... ...a lot more absentminded. Take a turn at the wheel. I don't want a farm in Kansas. Well alright! I'll win you Miss Lila, the customers are waiting, 25 hot one on the red. Give me a stack of blues. &quot;There's something in your eyes... &quot;...a little bit different. &quot;Something that appeals to me. &quot;I love the way they change &quot;always full of mystery. &quot;There is something in your smile &quot;Something I've been looking for. &quot;If I can just be sure &quot;...I would never ask for more. &quot;I've had a funny little feeling... &quot;...the first time we met..&quot; 17 odd on black. 17, there goes the last button Alright buddy, you gonna let it ride? Cash me in. Place your bets. aEURoeSomething that I never knew...aEUR &quot;In every way... &quot;...you're just a little bit different. &quot;That's why I - love - youuuu!!!&quot; Thanks for the money, daddy. I hope you didn't think Bourbon, There's plenty of rooms on either side, you have to come bullying I didn't see you... You interrupted a very on serious matters Me and my brothers, Gentlemen, gentlemen... We just put the place back together ...gentlemen, more over the breakage I had a dreadful time What I think is going to happen, ...it will round off a full day. There's your trip. What's eating you Tall man? You had words with Who? No. Told around they're some Gentlemen, lets consider the incident Maybe I would go More whiskey. I'll be right back. Where have you been? You don't know what you Please... Hey, wait a minute, Billy, get him. That's my old friend, Billy. Come on get him... come on Go on, you got him. Thanks. I must have hit the wrong man. Hey, for...! Don't worry about me. You wait outside. Check them One! It's gettin' late. Oh honey, I was so afraid All singing:&quot;And I'll never see my &quot;I'm sitting by the river &quot;For you've gone from the It's wonderful. We have money, and just had a beautiful fight. ...I tell you, we would really ought a Ah, you have been reading That's something I never What? A Bible with your name on it. Now where would you Quirt! Oh Randy, With what? Where is he going? No. Penny, what is wrong with thee? Table cloths don't belong in there. Oh, I'm sorry. Quirt! Unsaddle my horse, Sure! Wanna a boarder for a while? Of course. You're always welcome Hello! I haven't had a decent meal Not very good, the flour you know. I'll just stick around I'll feed the chickens. Yes. Can you help me Quirt? Does it take two to feed At times, Thomas, at times. You came back? Yes. Why? I don't know exactly. Why did you go away I don't know that exactly, either. I think it's because I know that sounds strange ...but I mean it You were frightened You thought that living with me ..and dull after a while. Tiresome and dull because.... ...all I knew, raised since a baby, ...that people love, marry, and I'm not such a fool not to know that ...it doesn't have to follow that they I know that sometimes Are you ever going to run down No, Quirt, that's what you were afraid of, ...and when you get tired you and I made up my mind that if you ...but whatever you want, If I go away If I go away, I used to be an Injun fighter. Just can't help walking up Morning missy... This young man here been doing A fellow over Castle Verde Way lost Well, missy... Why ask her? You look at my coral I did just that... It's a right weary animal.. I just want to see if the young lady I was going to... You have been over to Castle Verde Way? I've been to Rimrock Witnesses! Randy McCall, Christine Taylor. That's what I call witnesses. Lila Neal, I suppose. She'd make a good Randy, Christine and Lila... ...there's three to draw to. So Lila saw you there too, huh? Yes. Come here, jug head... Well, guess I missed you again, Quirt. ...but I'm patient.. ...that's what hangs all you fellows ...I'm patient. Lila? You talked about her Quirt, I... ...I wish my hair was... ...golden like corn silk, like you said. There is a sight Quirt Evans behind a plough. The pony walks as soft as you do. I taught him ...except you were thinking too hard. Haven't you got some real important Some place else. But I always liked to keep track You know, Quirt... ...I always figured on using a Kind of respected you. You never took the best of things.... ...and all your men went down Go and mind your own business. I usually do. It's a shame things don't always Now that little gal... she might marry ...who would know what to Why don't you kick up that horse Some young fella that would ...cows, sheep, kids.. ..kind of a fella that she'd Do I have to run you off? Well now I tell you. I never have ...where I aim to stay. But it just so happens No, Quirt... ...you don't rate a Look, ah... ...does a lot of potpourri and ..I'm not going to stand dressing up and a batch ...looking at me, Oh Quirt, Well, yes or no? Picking black berries? Alright Alright. I think we have enough, Quirt. Never did like black berries... It's too much work connected with it. Look out there's a wasp on the petunia! Well it's alright to for you to trust ...he might have known that I don't trust And incidentally that's not petunia, That's a petunia. Petunias, daisies, Quirt Evans. Oh nothing. Quirt. Where did thee ever get Fellow who half raised me, He found me somewhere along Folks had been bushwhacked He was a big fella. Swung a wide loop in his younger days, Wide loop? He wasn't too careful Most of the old cattlemen He raised me. Quite a guy. He was down in a gambling place... ...a fellow grabbed his gun-arm just Stop it. Then what? Well I just bounced around Quirt Evans. I don't see any gun. ...I know him. Hyah! Hyah! Hyah! Hyah! Hyah! Hyah! Hyah! [Oh shit!] Well, what are we waiting for? Nothing I guess. You don't have to be worry Oh, I cant help worrying about it, Get that doctor, A drink? It's amazing... ...the various uses to which To each different individual It's either a stimulant, depressant Just now I'm using it Get to the point. Practice of medicine... ...is one of the most infuriating It takes 30 years of experience ...that in the final analysis there's If she has an elusive moment... ...you better speak to her ...I'm not trying to argue you out Maybe you ought to She wouldn't like this, ...I'm not arguing for or against ...I know to her, the worlds worst if you should kill a man. Of course you could that she wouldn't know whether I think she'd know. Any discussion has to have Of course if you refuse Quirt! If I felt cynical.... ...this would be a good opportunity to ...a perfect example of Unfortunately I can't quote ...I'm too tired Father, father, But thee are very ill, Mother, I've got to go ... Thee must get back into bed. This is insanity. I told you Do you want to commit suicide? If you don't stay under There's no fever. Thee must do what the doctor says. I can't understand it. I can't understand it at all. There must be some logical I'm too old to start Wrap her in blankets. You know if the two hadn't I would never let that Hondo Jeffries Wait till Quirt Evans hear about this... Quirt will take the starch out of Why, Quirt and me once... ...well, it was Dodge City ...when the Earps and Clantons were gunning. Come here. Know Laredo Stevens? He's in the Eagle, and that pistol whipping Hondo Take him a message. Hey, buy the boys a drink. Sure, Don't you get excited when you Why get excited... sometimes you win Don't get excited, I ain't looking for trouble... I'm just a carrier of a message. He said to &quot;Come out in the street... ...he's waiting for you.&quot; Quirt Evans. [Hits sour note on piano] What is this, a joke? Take a look out at the streets. Jack, take a look at the street. There's a tall hombre in ...at the blacksmith's shop Mind if I use the back door, Pete? Well, they say &quot;a cat got nine lives.&quot; Maybe ole Quirt's part cat. He also said &quot;He was curious to know &quot;...to build up your nerve You're fixing to get There's a better pair of ears if you wanna pin Hey, you drink this. Sure, if I don't have to Come on. I wonder whether if that sharp Oh, I saw him ride out of town That's good, we don't want him Yeah, I bet that's just exactly Look out, there's going Hyah, hyah! Quirt! Quirt... ...step away from those women. Why don't you [Gun shots ring out!] Nothing ever works out right. Had them dead to rights. ...so I figured out what's the rukkas. You down them ...sort of... ..Sort of killing three hawks ...so to speak. Nothing, nothing ever works out right. I may have missed you again, Quirt, It's only a matter of time, Not me, From now on That Quirt! Hey Quirt might need that. No, only a man that carries a gun What are you going Hang it on the wall in my office,