He was born in a small town of Indiana, Pennsylvania, six months before Orville Wright demonstrated the Wright Flyer at Fort Myer near Washington, D.C. Fascinated by magic tricks and crystal radios as a boy, his life was changed forever after he spent $15 to buy a flight with a barnstormer. From that point on, aviation was his passion. He became famous for his acting on Broadway and in Hollywood. His public image was that of a modest, gangling, somewhat shy man, but the private persona believed in hard work, responsibility, and personal excellence. When the draft began in 1940, this Hollywood star tossed aside his career and enlisted in the army. With the outbreak of the Second World War, he fought to enter combat and rose through the ranks from private to Brigadier General, earning respect as commander of a B-24 squadron. Three times he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and twice the Croix de Guerre. He helped campaign to create the Air Force and regarded his military service as the most important thing he ever accomplished. He was known to the world as Jimmy Stewart, but he was also Brigadier General James Maitland Stewart, United States Air Force. Jimmy Stewart was born on May 20th, 1908. The only son of Alex, proprietor of the JM Stewart &amp; Company hardware store, and Bessie, an organist at the local Presbyterian Church. He discovered his fascination with aviation about the same time as the rest of the country. Many pilots returning from World War I found themselves without work and making their living with war surplus airplanes barnstorming across the country. One of them landed in a farmer's field near Jimmy's hometown. Despite the fears of his parents, Stewart bought his 15-minute flight for $15 and went flying while his father sat below in the family car, engine running, ready to help in the event of a crash. He landed a changed person. Barnstorming pilots were very popular in the 20s and a pilot did land outside of town and he pestered his father to go up in the plane and his father didn't want him to and he scraped together the money and his father did allow it. However a good friend of the family, Dr. Torrance, also went along for the ride, and that was Jimmy's first taste of flying. From that point on, Stewart kept a scrapbook with clippings of major aviation events. One such event was the flight of Charles Lindbergh ten years later. In fact, his cross-Atlantic flight occurred on Stewart's 19th birthday. by this historic flight, Jimmy placed a model of Lindbergh's Spirit of St. Louis airplane in the window of the Stewart Hardware Store, which was kept lit at night. A wire attached to a round board suspended the model between a drawing of the Woolworth Building in New York and the Eiffel Tower in Paris. As wire reports from the Indiana Evening Gazette across the street spelled out Lindbergh's progress, Jimmy dutifully ran back to the hardware store to move the model, letting the rest of the town know how Lindy was doing. Oh, he was crazy about flying. There's a little book called How to Fly an Airplane. It's about half an inch thick in red leatherette. And the first 14 pages are the history of flying. And after that, they get into how to fly an airplane. And Jim poured over that book. Flying would be a lifelong passion for Stewart. Years later, sitting on movie sets between takes, he could be found curled up with a flying magazine. But it would be quite some time before Jimmy would climb into the cockpit himself. After graduating from Princeton in 1932, he embarked on an acting career that eventually landed him in Hollywood as an up-and-coming star. Now being paid for his talents, Stewart used the money to finance his childhood dream, learning to fly. Within a year, he would be flying his own plane. In less than ten years, he would be commanding his own squadron of bombers. By 1936, Stewart had logged several hundred hours of flying and owned a three passenger Stinson HW75. As predicted, he used it to escape the glare of press agents and the pressure of making as many as six films a year. But Jimmy always found time for family and friends. He was always Jim Stewart. He'd come home, he'd be just the same as he was. You'd have no idea that he was a famous man and he was unfailingly kind. He would fly home after he bought his first airplane. He did fly home to Indiana, Pennsylvania to visit his parents. And I understand that he would follow the train tracks. Hitler, come to Germany! And Hitler, come to Germany! Back in the United States, most Americans only knew about the games and Hitler from what they saw in the newsreels at the movies. But Hitler was being noticed by American military leaders. The rise of the Luftwaffe began ringing alarms with American army commanders like General Henry Half Arnold. In 1936, the United States ranked only seventh in air power, flying a limited number of obsolete trainers from a single training base. The only bombers that existed were twin-engine, medium-range aircraft, totally unsuited for anything but a defensive battle. Arnold, faced with tight budgets and a Congress reluctant to invest in new aircraft, pushed civilians to begin building airstrips and learning how to fly. Stewart was anxious to help. Southwest Airlines was one of the companies that pledged to train pilots for the military effort, and Jimmy invested in the program. The result was some 80 new flyers. But it pointed Jimmy Stewart at something far more serious than his film career. He was one of Hollywood's most eligible bachelors, and he was a star in the film industry. When Jimmy Stewart was first in Hollywood, it must have been a magical time. Hollywood in the 1930s, he was single, good looking, acted in films with a lot of the really popular stars of the day. Joan Crawford, Ginger Rogers dated and really was a bachelor about town. But Stewart wondered if it wasn't just a bit frivolous and unimportant. It looked like there was a war coming and Jimmy wanted to do his part. Congress passed the draft September 16th 1940 calling for nearly a million men between the ages of 20 and 36. Much to the horror of the studio bosses, Jimmy Stewart announced he was going to enlist, referring to his draft notice as the only lottery I ever won. He wanted to fly, and despite an early ambition to attend the Naval Academy, he signed up with the Army and went to take his physical. He failed. He was ten pounds underweight. Stewart was furious. He played football at his weight and felt that he had a responsibility to serve his country. If the Army wanted him to weigh more, he'd simply go on a binge. When Jimmy Stewart first went to take his physical for induction into the army, he failed the weight test. He was underweight and was below the limit acceptable by army standards. He thought the whole idea was ridiculous that he couldn't serve his country because he was underweight. He did go back and take the test again, and this time the army looked the other way and Jimmy Stewart entered the army. Jimmy Stewart passed the weight requirement by one ounce and ran out to a waiting friend shouting, I'm in, I'm in. He reported for duty at Moffett Field, California on March 22, 1941. Despite the protests of MGM studio boss, Louis B. Mayer, Hollywood leading man Jimmy Stewart became a private James Stewart, U.S. Army. The studio Jimmy Stewart was with at the time he wanted to enlist in the army was MGM and MGM was not happy with his idea to enlist but Jimmy Stewart came from a very patriotic family. He had a long line of ancestors who had served in military service. Stewart had fought in every American war since the Revolution. But he was no ordinary buck private, having taken a $5,979 monthly pay cut to be there. He was Jimmy Stewart, the Academy Award-winning actor, the man who'd kissed some of the most beautiful women on Hollywood's silver screen, and inevitably he drew attention. The biggest help, sir, he said, would be no publicity, no interviews, no publicity stunts, no radio interviews, Jimmy told Colonel George Usher, his commanding officer at Moffett Field. But Colonel Usher knew the determined actor turned private was there for a reason. He wanted to fly. Jimmy Stewart entered the Army hoping to fly and become part of the Army, knowing that he would have to pass a very stiff proficiency test, he actually paid for an additional hundred or so hours of flying time so that he would be able to pass that test. Urged into Army Air Corps Extension training by his understanding commander, Stewart persevered and in November of 1941 he completed flight training. But his commission was not immediate, and he was sent back to Moffett Field while the military bureaucracy processed his papers. And then, on December 7, 1941. I ask that the Congress declare that since the unprovoked and dastardly attack by Japan on Sunday, December 7, 1941, a state of war has existed between the United States and the need for pilots grew greater than ever. On January 19, 1942, just over one month after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Corporal Jimmy Stewart jumped to the officer ranks, receiving his commission as a second lieutenant, and most importantly, his pilot's wings. He was immediately ordered to active duty and transferred to Kirkland Field, New Mexico, where he trained as a bomber pilot and became an instructor. There the newly promoted first lieutenant set his sights on combat, unconvinced of the argument that helping on the home front was just as important as being in the thick of battle. What's wrong with wanting to fight for your country, he once asked? Why are people embarrassed to use the word patriotism? But Stewart would get his wish, or at least he thought so at the time. After convincing his commanding officer to send him to bomber training, he emerged as a fully qualified B-17 bomber commander. The stage was set for Stewart to go overseas, when he ran into an unforeseen snag. Awaiting final orders in Salt Lake City, his commanding officer delivered the bad news. There must be some hitch about your going into combat, he said. I've got orders to classify you as static personnel. That meant Jimmy wasn't going overseas, at least for the time being. There were people within the Army Powers That Be that weren't crazy about sending a famous movie star off to combat and perhaps running the risk of him being lost in the war. So they did their best to keep him grounded. Instead, Lieutenant Stewart was assigned as an instructor pilot at Gowan Field in Boise, Idaho. Heartbroken but strong, he never uttered a word of discontent and reported as ordered for duty. Instructing at Gowan Field wasn't combat, but it was grueling work. Orders from above came to churn out the flight crews. Instructors flew round-the-clock missions to keep up with the demand, and Stewart grew weary from the constant pressure to deliver qualified pilots. Now a captain, he longed for an overseas assignment and the chance to fight the enemy. Fortunately, he wouldn't remain an instructor for long. His commanding officer heard his request and arranged a transfer to the 445th Bombardment Group in Sioux City, Iowa. The 445th was scheduled to go overseas and needed a squadron operations officer. Jimmy reported for duty and immediately impressed his superiors. In just 19 days he was promoted to commander of a B-24 bomber squadron. He was finally headed for combat. When Jimmy Stewart was about to fly out of Sioux City, Iowa, his parents both visited him and his father did slip him a note that Jimmy didn't read right away. And within the note was also the 91st Psalm. And it was a prayer that Jimmy Stewart carried with him throughout the war and referred to on a number of occasions. Captain Jimmy Stewart, B-24 squadron commander, arrived in England during the latter part of 1943. During his tour of duty, he flew 20 combat missions over the German cities of Bremen, Frankfurt, and Berlin, to name a few. Hundreds of bombers were lost during those missions, but Stewart's calm command style held his squadron together, earning him accolades from peers and superiors alike. Serving with distinction, he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross with two oak leaf clusters, the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters, Francis Quatiguerre with palm, and emerged from the war as a colonel in command of the bomber wing he served for so long. Colonel Ramsey Potts was honored to present Jimmy Stewart with the Distinguished Flying Cross. Eight Air Force lost over 6,000 airplane bombers and during the campaign and we had over 50,000 casualties. He led a number of very difficult missions, including one to Berlin. And it may well have been that that DFC was awarded to him because of his leadership on one of those very difficult missions. Jimmy Stewart was a talented flyer and beyond that, he was a leader. The men, you know, he could have been hated in his outfit. Just think about it. Here's a movie star, guy with tremendous amount of income, could walk at any time, he could have walked from his task. He didn't demand special duties. He didn't demand special promotions. He was in the ranks, went up, made his way on his own. Tremendous leader. Stuart returned to America in September of 1945, noticeably grayer, but nonetheless the same gangly, modest, and somewhat shy man he always had been. True to his nature, he refused to let the MGM studio bosses use his war record to promote his movie career, instead electing to quietly leave active duty for the Air Corps Reserve. For this would not be the end of Jimmy Stewart's military career. When Jimmy Stewart returned from World War II, he was a colonel. He had gone in as a private and rose to the rank of colonel by the end of the war. He went back to Hollywood without a contract. MGM did not renew his contract and he worked without a contract for a number of years actually. One condition that he did have written into a contract was that you could not, they could not use his war record to promote a film. He did not want to be known as a war hero. 1946 was a busy year for the actor turned war hero. His first movie after World War II was Frank Capra's holiday classic It's a Wonderful Life, for which he received an Academy Award nomination. He also found time that year to help establish the Air Force Association, a lobbying organization aimed at turning the Army Air Corps into a separate military branch. Stewart was elected National Vice President and was one of six board members to meet with President Truman on Air Force matters. The following year, President Truman signed the National Security Act, authorizing creation of the United States Air Force. Jimmy Stewart was proud to be a member of this new service, pledging his support as a Reserve Officer, Board Member of the Air Force Association, and as the master of ceremonies for Air Force awareness events, such as Wing Ding 48. Ah, James, one... I know, I know that there are very few people that can do it this way, but you have the talent. Usually people finish with a song or a dance. They, they do something. Don't you do anything? Oh, you see, I don't have to do anything. I'm a colonel. Now in his early 40s, with World War II over and having been established as one of Hollywood's most acclaimed actors, Jimmy Stewart felt the need to settle down. In 1948, Jimmy met Gloria Hattrick-McClain at a dinner party hosted by fellow Hollywood screen star Gary Cooper. Their romance quickly flourished and a year later they were married. She was very high style, very sophisticated and Jim wasn't but he thought she was beautiful and wonderful, adored her, just absolutely adored her. Gloria had two young sons from a previous marriage, Ronald age five and Michael age three, but to Jimmy that just meant more family. I don't think Jimmy Stewart ever felt that he was anything less than a father to both Ronald and Michael. They were very young when he married their mother, and they were his boys. And he was their dad, and they called him dad. I don't think he ever looked upon them as step-sons. They were his sons. Two years later, Jimmy and Gloria added twin girls to the family. A devoted father and husband, he found a way to bridge the time among family, a film career, and the Air Force Reserve. He was still fascinated by military air power, taking time out of his busy schedule to visit airmen abroad during the Korean War. Recognized for his continued achievements by the Air Force, he was promoted to Brigadier General in 1959, a post he would hold until his retirement in 1968. By the 1960s, the next generation of stewards was serving in the military. Gloria's son, Ronald McClain, was in Vietnam, serving a tour of duty as a Marine officer. Jimmy and Gloria pledged their support by visiting him as part of a goodwill tour. Unfortunately, it would be the last time they would ever see their son. In the spring of 1969, Jimmy and Gloria Stewart went on a goodwill tour of Vietnam. They met up with their son, Ron, and enjoyed their visit with him, and met a lot of his friends and visited with a number of military personnel. Tragically, about three months later, in June of 1969, Ronald was killed, which devastated them both. When Ronald was killed in the war he may have mourned privately but he did not seem to be mourning because he said he died in the service of his country and you can't ask for anybody to do more than that but Gloria mourned she never got over that, losing that boy. But the shy, modest war hero from Indiana, Pennsylvania was proud of Ronald. And just like the bomber pilots he served with who never returned, Stewart knew his son had died with honor. He would never forget the brave men and women who risked and sometimes lost their lives for their country. He always held the military in high esteem and once told an Aerospace Education Foundation audience, my service in the military has made me a better citizen and for that I am grateful to the United States Air Force. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences held him in high esteem too, awarding him an honorary Oscar in 1985 for his five decades in Hollywood. His star is a fixture along Hollywood's Walk of Fame and in his hometown of Indiana, Pennsylvania, stands the Jimmy Stewart Museum, a collection of exhibits on his life as both an aviator and a celebrity. But Jimmy Stewart regarded his duty to the United States as his most important achievement. He will be remembered by many as an accomplished actor, a Hollywood statesman, and most importantly a decorated war hero. His name is James Maitland Stewart. I'm going to try to get a good shot of the car. Thunderbird. In Native American mythology, it is supernatural, being of immense power and strength. To Carbuffs, Thunderbird embodies classic styling and prestige. Power and strength, styling and prestige. The aircraft before us today has all of that and an exciting history as well. It is a North American P-51C Mustang. Saved from the military boneyard and assembled from the parts of three separate aircraft and countless spares, this aircraft won the 1949 Bendix Air Race and set a series of speed records in the early 1950s, records that remain unbeaten 70 years later. But the real story of this airplane is about the people, famous and not so famous, who have been part of its history. From a 10-year-old boy daydreaming in North Dakota, to Queen Elizabeth II, and from war heroes to Hollywood legends. Leland and Martha Cameron were the owners of Allied Aircraft of Chicago, Illinois. In the late 1940s, the Camerons bought the parts to build and modify the P-51C. The Civil Aviation Administration, forerunner of the FAA, registered the airplane in April 1948. Two days later, the Cameron sold it to the Joe DeBona Racing Company, which was owned entirely by the Hollywood star Jimmy Stewart. During World War II, DeBona flew thousands of hours in the Air Transport Command, ferrying B-17s across the Atlantic. The partnership between DeBona and Stewart had one goal, to win the Bendix trophy. Air racing was popular in the late 1940s, as popular as NASCAR is today, and the Los Angeles to Cleveland Bendix trophy race was among the most popular events. Jimmy Stewart was the first Hollywood star to enlist in the armed forces after Pearl Harbor. He trained as a pilot in the consolidated aircraft B-24 squadron. He rose to Brigadier General in a military career lasting 27 years. Preparing the P-51C for the 1948 Bendix Trophy race included removing bits and pieces to weight, adding more streamlining to the airframe, installing an experimental propeller, and applying 48 coats of primer and cobalt blue paint. They named the airplane Thunderbird. De Bona entered the 1948 Bendix race in Thunderbird but ran out of fuel 63 miles short of the finish line. In 1949, De Bona and Thunderbird finally took the trophy with a record-setting average speed of 470.14 miles per hour. It was the last year that the Bendix race included piston engine aircraft, and DeBona's speed record still stands today. Three months later, Stewart sold Thunderbird to Jacqueline Cochran was an accomplished record-setting pilot. She had won the Bendix Trophy in 1938, and she was the first woman to pilot a bomber across the Atlantic. wherever you may be. But she was most celebrated as the founder and director during World War II of the Women Air Force Service Pilots, better known as the WASPs. Cochran recruited more than a thousand women pilots, designed and oversaw their training, and managed their service during the war. WASPs ferried military aircraft of all kinds, from factories to training fields and embarkation points and they served as flight instructors all of which freed up men to fight the war. Over her long career Cochran set many speed records in piston driven aircraft and jets. She said of herself, it never dawned on me not to do something because I was a woman. She would eventually set more speed records than any other pilot in history, man or woman. She set three of those speed records in Thunderbird before selling the Mustang back to Jimmy Stewart in 1953 for one dollar. Stewart repainted the airplane as Mr. Alex in honor of his father Alexander Maitland Stewart. In March 1954, De Bona flew Mr. Alex from Los Angeles to New York City in just under four and a half hours, setting a new transcontinental Six months later, Stuart sold the Mustang to James Cook, a Texas businessman. Cook used the airplane to seed clouds for rain. In August 1955, the Mustang was written off after a crash landing. Cook survived and what was left of the airplane went into storage. Warren Peach grew up in a flying family. His father owned a flying service in Minot, North Dakota. Warren took over the business in 1990 repairing and restoring aircraft. As a pilot he flew warbirds with the Texas Flying Legends and the Dakota Territory Air Museum, but he still wanted a Mustang of his own. In 1999 Warren bought a wrecked P-51 in Nebraska. When he discovered that the wreck he now owned was Thunderbird, he decided to restore the airplane to pay homage to Stewart and DeBona. As the work began, the Mustang was badly damaged and corroded from chemicals. The long process of restoration was finally completed in 2023, and the airplane will be housed at the Dakota Territory Air Museum and operated as a flying piece of history. And how is Queen Elizabeth part of Thunderbird's history? Well, that's another story. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Ed McElhoney, and I'm going to be the rudder that steers the ship here today in this program. I apologize, first of all, for not having the aircraft behind us. Unfortunately, the weather here in Wisconsin did not cooperate, and with such a valuable aircraft as this, we decided to be somewhat conservative. You can see three gentlemen off to my left here, and what we're going to be talking about, those of you who are out on the ramp right now, you can see that sign that says history, heritage and heroes. We're going to touch on all three of those today. Quick introductions, the good news is that we'll have a little bit more time for discussion today because, yeah, we don't have the walk around, we're not going to be able to look at the aircraft, which I suspect we'll be able to Sometime during the show if the weather cooperates Because it is an absolutely gorgeous aircraft To my left owner of the aircraft Warren peach, okay He's going to be doing most of the talking today You saw him briefly in the slides there Next, to his left, we've got Chuck Cravens. He's our fact checker today. He's going to be the guy, if we start telling stories, he's going to wave the flag and he's going to go, no, wait a second, no, this is really how it is. So he's going to be our expert in that regard. Then the last guy is just a pilot. I'll harass Bernie a little bit, Bernie Vasquez, probably one of the high time warbird pilots in the world, flown a little bit of everything. And I'd have to say most hours, has anybody else flown the Thunderbird besides yourself at this point? Only guy who's flown the Thunderbird. So he's gonna talk a little bit to us about the Thunderbird and its current performance characteristics. So with that, I'll get on. And Warren, I'm gonna say first, thank you for being here and thank you for what you've done with this aircraft It is just just spectacular as far as I'm concerned It's got a history That's that long and you know most of it and I'll just I'll start with a quick question, okay Where'd it come from? How did you acquire it? We know that you wanted to always fly a p-51 and own a p-51 Well, you've made it happen, okay? And how did this particular aircraft come into your being? Well, it started in 1999, as the video said, in search of a P-51A because Jerry Beck at Tri-State Aviation was developing a P-51A program where he was going to build 10 airplanes and I had hoped to build the second one. And Jerry and I were on our way to Cleveland with a Corsair and a TBM, and we stopped in Oshkosh and talked to Gene Chase, we had lunch with him. And when Jerry was telling him about this, and Gene said, well, he said, I think I know where there's some paperwork for a P-51A and some wreckage. And he described the accident up in Scottsbluff, Nebraska, and he used to work for James Cook, Gene did, and so I went hunting for that, you know, eventually over the next couple of years and found out that in fact his story was accurate and that there was an airplane up there, there was some paperwork, and I found out that it wasn't an A. But, you know what, halfway down the road, let's go ahead and keep pursuing this and keep going, so it turned out to be a P-51C. And then I learned that it was, and I've always liked Jimmy Stewart. I mean, this is about restoring one of your hero's airplanes. And his military record, his Hollywood persona, everything about him was pretty cool. Who didn't like Jimmy Stewart? Exactly. But to be able to say that now I have his airplane that he owned was pretty cool. So the project really started in 1999, this particular project. I want to back up a number of years. My dad, Alfred Peach, built a Starduster II in 1967. And when I was 10, we followed him down to Rockford to the EAA convention. He was flying that airplane, and we were, the family was in a Mooney, and I was in the back seat, obviously, because I was 10. And I saw P-51s for the first time. And I don't remember how many there were, a half a dozen of them. And one of them had stars and bars on it. The rest of them were civilian airplanes. And Bob Hoover flew, and I went home and painted a picture of a P-51 on my bedroom wall with an opaque projector. I'm not an artist, but anyway, I painted this. And I started dreaming, and the dream, you know, ebbed and flowed through the years. And, but it never did stop and I was able to fly other people's airplanes which was really really an honor for me and I'm very happy with with the people that helped me get into the industry Jerry Beck, Bob Odegaard, Dr. Hank Reikert and there's a number of them that that allowed me to fly their airplanes so it kind of came and went came and went and then in 2017 I sold part of our FBO and with the intent of retiring. Good luck. How'd that work out? Well, Thunderbird is now my retirement. So anyway, that's where that airplane came from. from but you know that a 10 year old boy influenced by Experimental Aviation Association in Rockford, Illinois before the convention moved to Oshkosh and it just kept going and going and going and so that's where that, that's the story behind the project. And when you found it, you said it was an airplane, bits and pieces, parts? Bits and pieces, it was, yeah, as it said, it had crashed, but it was there and there was stuff that we could work with. And we obviously, the airplane, as so many of them, I won't say obviously, but there's pieces internally in the airplane that are original North American pieces, but a lot of the structure has had to been reconstructed, which I think is true with just about any restoration that you see out there. You know. How long the restoration process? How long did it take? Well, we went, we bought another project and were able to get the wing from that project and some other parts in 2019 and so the airplane was basically structure complete and then we moved it to Air Corps in June of 20 and that's how long it's been in I don't know what you'd say completion or assembly or whatever, but that's where, you know, Mark Kistler and the whole Air Corps group has been so beneficial for me because they have the expertise and the talent to do the things that I certainly couldn't do. And when was the first flight? When did you first fly this thing? A month ago, wasn't it? A month ago. June 6th. June 6th. June 6th, all right. D-Day. So it's not very long ago, and here we are. Well, thank you for that. And the paint is extremely fresh. The painter, Roy Kiefer of Custom Aircraft Finishes out of Castleton, North Dakota, thank you Roy, is here right now over in the Weeks Hanger. He was detailing the airplane this morning for us because the clear was put on a week ago today. So when it came here, Bernie and I brought it down Sunday, it came here and it was still drying, gassing off, and everybody that walked around the airplane could smell it. So I don't know that there's going to be an article, but if there is, I think they should title it, Did You Get a Whiff of That Blue Mustang? for that blue Mustang. And talking about the blue Mustang, I mean, it was highly, highly polished back when it was a racer, right? Same color, basically. It's close. But I mean, that thing was just gleaming. And again, for speed, right? I mean, that was why they did it. Supposedly, the, was it 48 coats of paint? 48 coats. Of lacquer paint increased the speed by 8 miles an hour. And again, like you talked about, he ran short of gas, just short of Cleveland in 48, so he was doing everything they could to get that airplane to not only win the race, but to extend its range and things like that. I think, yeah, so the finish that we put on it is not the same as they used then, because I'm interested in not repainting the airplane every year. It doesn't make sense. Yeah, but it is a really, really pretty finish and it replicates the sheen of the original airplane I think to a T. Our shirts are close. They're pretty close. Okay, very nice shirts too by the way. All right, how about let's get into the history of the airplane a little bit. You talked about Jimmy Stewart, we talked about Jackie Cochran. There's story after story after story it seems. That's what you want to represent here with this airplane. It absolutely is. Thanks Ed. Again, just to back up a little, thank you Orbison Review for hosting us and having us here. It's an honor to be here representing this airplane and it's frankly it's an honor to have this airplane here to represent those three stories and for it to debut in vintage aviation it was I apologize to war birds but it was a it was a vintage it was a vintage racer and I'm kind of a vintage guy at heart but it was uh you know it never had a gun in it so in the war and everything. So the representation or the story that I'd like the airplane to be recognized for is not only how pretty it is and the records that it set, but the three people that flew it were representative of World War II veterans, great Americans, patriots, all. And it kind of in my mind starts out with Joe DiBona, who was a World War II ferry pilot veteran who had a dream of winning the Bendix race. He raced it in 1947 in Magic Town, he raced in 1948 in Thunderbird, and he raced in 1949 in Thunderbird and won. And still holds the piston powered record for the Bendix race. Common man achieves his dream. Jimmy Stewart, another war hero, commanded men, he was an actor before the war, enlisted, as the thing said, he was a commander of the Thunderbird Squadron, B-24s, came back to Hollywood, and was a conservative. So Hollywood was conservative. Jacqueline Cochran holds more records today than any other aviator in the world. She was a patriot. She started the WASP. She did all these things. Women were equal. So the three things that I see the airplane representing for a great time in America after the war is the common man could achieve his dream, Hollywood was conservative, and women were equal. And I think it's it's important to look at the airplane and understand what's involved in there. You know, the Queen Elizabeth II coronation films, that was a pretty neat race too. That came from what, on that coronation thing, it was from Canada, they were flying the canisters down, weren't they? No, they were, the Mustangs were. The Pony Express was from, coming from Goose Bay to Boston for the two different networks. CBS is what Mr. Alex flew in, the Thunderbird airplane. Okay. And then Paul Mance's airplane, who they obviously had some sort of a little contest going on between Mance and DeBona and Mance's pilots because DeBona had lost to Mance in 47 and 48 and then Mance's airplanes lost to him in 49. So they reran that race and they lost again. That can kind of fill us in a little bit on that coronation thing. Well, it was essentially a kind of a publicity stunt in a way. It's television history really because there had never been an event televised in the United States that happened overseas on the same day. And of course, there's no satellites and it was... Oh, this is 1953. Three. It was possible to do it with an undersea cable, except it would take up the whole cable. So economically, that wasn't feasible. So the RAF flew what we would now call videotapes to Goose Bay and Canberra, and they also flew them on to Canada. The two Mustangs picked up their copies for their network and flew to Boston to try to be the first ones to put that on the air, the same, the coronation, the same day. So and it is the first time that that's happened. The other network realized that Thunderbird was going to win, so they punted and got coverage from Canada and actually got it on the air first, but Thunderbird won the race. All right, let's talk about the airplane a little bit and I'll go down to Bernie now for a minute. You know, points of note, you know, from the onset, you know, I mean, you did several engine runs probably on the thing and did it start and run perfect the first time? Were there little things that went wrong? What do you think about that side of it all? It went Very well, there's always teething problems in a project. You never ever start anything get it the first time but I will say this is the Fourth airplane we picked up from Air Corps now. Okay, and They just keep getting better good It was pretty effortless out of the gate we did all the ground runs got it all prepared and I mean it was, they do a good job. I've done quite a few test flights this year in different airplanes and for different companies and it's impressive. Okay, and let's talk about the first flight. Went well, no big issues. It wasn't one of these, hey airborne, uh-oh, I got a problem, come right back down and land? No, I'll do exactly what I did on the first test flight. He was behind me, said brake release, I let go of the brakes, ran the power up to take off power, and it broke ground. Wanted to wait just a little bit to get the gear up in case there was a problem. Elected to put the gear up and started climbing, setting a deck angle for the speed I wanted to climb at, which was about 130. And it was so impressive, I keyed the mic, as all of the Air Corps guys were on a radio listening to us, I just keyed the mic and went, yee-haw! Because I've never been in a Mustang, ever, that performs like this airplane. It's light. They've taken, just like that picture showed during the Bitniks race, they took everything out that would have been quote-unquote a stock Mustang. Which for Air Corps guys it was hard to build the airplane. Because Mark Tisser told me at one point the guys would bring this restoration package over and say okay all this needs to go in the airplane. And he'd look through it and take one bolt and go no, the rest of that stuff's got to go back on the shelves. Well no no it goes in the airplane. It's a racer. That was, it was hard because they're so used to building everything totally authentic that it was just a funny thing to watch happen. But the airplane stripped down 6,700 pounds. An H model was like right there, I think. And the H model was the biggest performance, had all the performance back then. You know, it was an interceptor made to take off and go climb This thing does that and it's really really really stock motor right? I mean this is completely stocked when Glenn Wagman built motor so everything all the performance you're getting is from from a weight reduction and paint job and And so so that's what's what's given at the speed you were talking about coming up here and you know you again it's unheard of basically you know you got how many what you said 40 40 knots more than than typical Mustang yeah 30 to 40 knots more at the same altitude we're at 11.5 36 inches 2300 rpm normally you'd see 220 indicated this thing's 270 I mean not doing anything it's all in trim I mean at one point I took my hands off and went like this and it's just it's that fast any additional Limitations because they've lightened it up as much as they have you know say You know yeah I'm worried when I do the air show that when I do the top of the when I come over the top for the cumin ain't That I'm gonna be too high Okay, no big deal. No, no, there's a. It they race the highbacks for a reason. We fast forward 50 years, you know, when I worked quite a bit on voodoo as a younger person on the crew did a lot of the work modifying it, put back on the race turtle deck, which tells you right there that they took the bubbles off in the 60s, 70s, and 80s and put these little turtle decks on to get the air to flow back faster. So a high back airplane is faster anyways. Razorback P47, a Razorback Mustang, they're just faster. But you can see why they did a D model, because you can't see out of these things. Every time you turn, your head hits something. That's just one of the limitations. Wow. All right. Well, it sounds like a great flying airplane. I'll say that right now. And again, I wish we had it out here, and I look forward to walking around it myself. But Warren, more stories about the history of this airplane. You know, Jimmy Stewart, he sold it to Jackie Cochran for what, a dollar? I think is, you know, and then. One and OVC. Uh-huh. Yeah. And did Jackie want it to set records? Is that, that was her goal? Yeah, I think this was the third Mustang that she'd owned, right? Think so. Yeah, and raced. So yeah, and just to back up real quick to the first test flight, Ben Redman and I were behind him and I was allowing him to get airborne and the gear up completely before I took off because I wanted him to have their own D-model Mustang. In my opinion, our fastest D-model Mustang at the museum which turned out to not be quite fast enough for this particular mission I guess, but I don't know. Anyway, the funny part was we briefed it I'm going to let you get the gear up before I go because if there is a problem I want you to have all the runway to use. I don't want to be competing with you. And so I'm coming around the corner while he's adding power and I see the wheels breaking around and he goes a little ways and he said, pull the gear up. And I'm busy in the cockpit for a second and Ben's saying, yeah, the gear's up and stuff and he goes yeehaw. And I'm looking out there about where a normal Mustang would be at this point and I don't have them in sight. And Ben says, look at that thing go. And he does, and I looked up like this and went, wow, this is really climbing. And then the chase began. Wow. Yeah, but anyway, so the history on the airplane, I, you know, the video seemed to carry it pretty well. I don't know if you've got... This was never your intent, though. When you bought a Mustang, you sat there and I just want a Mustang. And then all of a sudden you found that, hey, you've got Thunderbird. It has met my expectations and exceeded them, this whole project, the whole time. And I'm so happy with the whole thing right now. I think these guys will tell you that at Texas Flying Legends, they had a nickname for me, EFD, Eternal Face of Disgust. Out of everybody in this group right here, I've known him and worked with him the longest. I've never seen the mustache curl up, always a frown. So people keep asking me, well, he must just be totally excited. I said, have you ever seen his mustache go up? And it's been like that for 20 days now. Since the first flight. I can't say that I see anything wrong with the airplane. I think the paint job is phenomenal and the scheme. When you look at that up on the screen now, that's a retro paint job. That's 1949. Some guys absolutely nailed the scheme as far as proportions and beauty and stuff. As we painted the airplane, and I vacillated, these guys will tell you, I vacillated over that blue for years. And the last six months, it was like every pickup, every car, everything I saw, that must be the blue. That must be the blue. Six months? Yeah. Yeah. Every phone call, and we have phone calls, I live in California, he lives in North Dakota, three to five times a day, we're back and forth. It got to the point where it would- About the color. Nope. That's just about business, just friends calling each other. But every time the phone rang, I'd answer it, go, yellow and blue, yellow and blue, yellow and blue. And then Eric Hocuff, randomly, as the paint job is happening, I mean, they're laying paint. Eric and his crew and the guys start looking at these black and white photos and they go, the rudder's not blue. What do you mean the rudder's not blue? It's black. The checkered flag back then was yellow and black. They painted it and it was a discussion internally. He called me and I'm like, I think that's going to look horrible. But if it's the way it was, paint it. That was the biggest home run for this airplane. If it was blue, it just wouldn't look fitting. And all artist renditions were blue. It actually, it was, as Bernie said, as it was painted, and they started questioning it. And I went back, I've been collecting photographs and stuff forever with lots of cooperation from Aeries Saint Historians Association. Association and there was the one color picture and it blew it up the blue up the rudder Yeah and then you could see it and You can go back and look at the black and whites and some of them look like the checkered The dark checkers are blue and I think what probably happened is they probably were blue and got painted black before the race And that's a real common thing to have happen the other thing that about that that color or look as so many photos black and white photos of the airplane were available but we couldn't see the blue from that obviously but we were trying to gauge what what shade blue is is a light blue is a dark blue whatever it is because some of them were gray and some of look at that one up in there looks like it's dark blue right well we found a color that changes with the light and that's what this one does. And I stood out there on the line the other night as the sun was going down in the smoke and I just kept watching it and it just kept getting darker. Not the light, but I mean the color just kept getting darker and darker throughout the evening. And I was like, man, it really worked. And then the stripe down the side, do you see the stripe around the back windows? And then it goes up over the exhaust stacks to that emblem, the Thunderbird emblem. And we really worked on that in the paint shop. Roy and Bruce kept looking at it and looking at it. And if you look at it, you'll see that in the original pictures, it had a little curve to it. And we replicated that curve here. And we kind of figured out why they did it. There's some certain pieces in the airplane that lend themselves to going around to make that curve happen. And I finally was trying to describe it to them guys. I said, I don't know what it is, but it looks like the end of a signature where you just kind of accelerate away from your name as you're doing something, you know, but it's a neat look and hats off to the guys that painted it into Air Corps for the stencils. But that little emblem that's up in the front of there, that Thunderbird is all painted. It's all masked and painted. And it took a day and a half for Bruce to do that. He'd lay down a mask, paint a color, peel that off, lay down another one, peel out the next color, and the Pegasus horse is the same way. So all the trim you see on that airplane is all painted. Talk a little bit about the Pegasus horse. I saw it on my shirt, I'm kind of going, and you said, oh, that's a, go ahead, Chuck. It's a trademark symbol for mobile oil. Okay. And sign collectors, that's a sign that's really sought after. You know, they used to have big ones on gas stations, but it's a pretty identifiable logo. And they created some special gasoline, 150 octane to increase the horsepower. I've read, and I don't know this for a fact, but I've read they were getting 3,000 horsepower out of it for the race. They provided the gasoline for the race? Okay. And somebody had this story about, you know, they ran out of gas 53 miles short at the one time. And obviously we want to get as much gas in that thing as possible. And tell me the story about the dry ice. Well, there's a picture, and I didn't provide it to these guys, but there's a picture of it at Rosamond Lakebed of an old gas truck. Obviously, it was new then. And there's canisters that they're lowering into the top of the truck that are full of dry ice. And the airplane had a wet wing, and so they had covers off of the tips and at the leading edge of the wing. And they're putting that cold gas, which we all know shrinks, into the airplane and then putting the covers on and putting them shut so they could launch right away and climb into cold air and keep the gas from expanding. And it kind of gives you an idea of how single-minded Joe DiBona must have been about, you know, I ran out last time, I'm not doing it again. It's extreme. You're taking it to the extreme here. As much gas as you can get in there. It's a cool idea. They had to wear it with all to do it. There weren't any regs keeping them from doing it. One of the other things, and did you have more? Keep going, I've got more questions. If they could go back to that picture that showed the anvil. The anvil, yeah. It's like the most asked question with the least amount of answers. Yeah, but I have a couple of theories on there. In the 1853 anvil that's below the left side rear window when you look at the airplane, there was a 1853 anvil chorus. And one of the guys at Air Corps, found this and said, you know, it was written for an opera. And Glenn Miller did a swing tune of that 1853 opera. And Glenn Miller and Jimmy Stewart were friends. Glenn Miller died during the war. Jimmy Stewart played him in a movie, the Glenn Miller story, after the war. So I think that might've been, you know, a tribute of sorts. Yeah, acknowledgement of tribute and the lyrics in the opera, to me, kind of say what Jimmy Stewart was thinking. Because when you read the book Mission, Jimmy Stewart was PTSD. We didn't have that word, but he was traumatized by that war. He kept his men's morale up. He was a great leader, but he was obviously really affected by the weight that he carried as a leader during that war and he was tired of killing people and seeing his friends get killed and he and he associated that he associated with airplanes at that what's that and there's a paragraph in the book that says there was a day where he said I'm never gonna fly again he told somebody that I think he came out of the war, he was a pilot before the war, he loved aviation. He started the Thunderbird Airfield in Arizona, you know, with some other actors and stuff. And so this airplane, I think, was something that made him happy. He could associate happiness with airplanes. And so the lyrics in that opera were basically Gypsy Maiden, it's time to quit mourning, it's time to celebrate, take off your dark clothes, put on bright colored clothes and stuff, so there was that. The second theory I have on the anvil is, his grandfather started their family hardware store in Indiana, Pennsylvania in 1853. And the anvil in the mid 1800s was the emblem for a blacksmith shop. And I think a blacksmith shop and a hardware store were pretty much the same thing. I don't know, there's a romantic version and there's a simple family recognition version there. Now I don't have to tell that story to anybody anymore because it just kept happening. We were going to put a sign out by the airplane. The anvil will be told every half hour on the hour because it seriously is. We're sitting around the airplane and, hey, excuse me, what's the animal? Go talk to the guy in the yellow hat. It seems like so many symbols on the airplane have dual meanings. And I really like that because that's the way I think. I look at something and I go, well, that's synonymous with this, but it also applies to this. If we were going to do it the way you think, we'd have like 40,000 of them on it. Yeah, EFD. How about the future? Where's it going? What's it going to do? You can apply it some more. It's going to go back to California. It's going to live in my hangar. I'm trading him a North American Navion, so he still has a North American. Nice try, Bernie. Yeah, I don't think it's going to work, but I want to. But Navion's brightly painted. At least it's got that going for it. It's going to live in the Dakota Territory Air Museum and it'll get campaigned around the country and people will get a chance to see it. It's really nice right now and I'd love to keep it that way, but I'm not going to make it a hanger queen. You're going to fly it? Yep. Okay, good. And I'll fly it for however many years. I'm not going to put a limit on it. And when that's over, I'll look for a new caretaker for the airplane to keep it going. Go ahead, Bernie. Oh, I'll be the caretaker. And to go way back, this airframe never flew in combat. This was not a war plane per se. It was being delivered from Dallas with 11 other airplanes, so there was 12 airplanes I think total, correct me if I'm wrong here, to be shipped to the Pacific Theater, China, Burma, India, whatever, and had a landing accident in Palm Springs and was abandoned there until after the war. And I'm thinking that Jimmy Stewart had some pull with the DOD and some different people. And so they ended up with this airplane and it's... Yeah, it's original airworthiness was as a... There's stories about it being their staff. Exactly. It was built in 1948 and it was signed a serial number. So, yeah. And it's not a serial number that has anything to do with a North American or Army Air Force serial numbers. It doesn't make sense for either of those. That Palm Springs airplane is that, but that number is in that serial number and they dropped a couple numbers at the beginning of it. That's what I think happened and it would only make sense. Why would you build a Mustang when there was all of those airplanes available after the war? Yeah. Why wouldn't you take one? They just went and picked one and said, we're going to strip it. Yeah. And it's what's funny is the airplanes have several different serial numbers. And so they're easily confused. Yeah. And that airplane, you know, it that's why the whole story about it going down a vintage is it really never was what we know as a warbird. Sure. is it really never was what we know as a warbird. It never made it to the war. It never left US soil. It got built in its civilian world for one purpose. They wanted to go do the Bendix and then they did it and then had its unfortunate accident. He finds the pieces, links it all together, builds this thing back to what it was and now we're here with it trying to display and what's cool about this airplane is that he brought it up before with the common man, the war hero, the records it set and when you look at it now, we're repeating the history again. The whole thing, it's order pilot, girl. And trophy. We have the trophy there too. This is a replica of the Bendix trophy that would have been given to the pilots that won. Just put that in the dryer and it shrank. Yeah. The actual traveling Bendix trophy was never given to a winner and it's on display at the Wright-Patterson Museum. And it has the plaques on it of each year's winners on there. But this is a bronze replica of the trophy that Joe DiBona would have taken home with him. How many years, Chuck, okay, this is a question, how many years did they have the air races any idea? Well, you know the Bendix was connected to the Cleveland air races, right? And I believe that began in the early 20s The 49 race was that there was a tragic event and it ended the Cleveland air races And that was what the Bendix flew from LA to Cleveland the Mustang Beguin Stang Beguine, they lost control, crashed into a house and killed two people, a mother and their child. And so that was kind of the end of the Cleveland Air Races. They did run the Bendix, but really from 49 on, it was kind of a military jet race. Like Warren said, there was no more, it wasn't run with piston engines again. This one, this airplane won the last Bendix race. The last piston powered Bendix race. And that's why the record still stands. It also set a transcontinental record. And you know, the speeds are a little unbelievable until people consider that those are across the ground speeds with hellacious tailwinds. Because the transcontinental record is 560 miles an hour. And you're not going to fly that Mustang at 560 miles an hour at sea level and still air. Now, the Cleveland race I read the other day, they said that the tail end averaged between 8 and 18 miles an hour. So it was mostly Mustang at altitude that was doing that. And if you look at the picture of it. If you think about that now, they're running the course at Reno with way more hopped up engines asking way more out of it. I mean, these guys essentially had stock engines. They had 150 fuel from Mobil, which we get ours from, I can't even think of it right now, but we get high octane fuel for Reno, but it's 50 years later and we're not going any faster. Granted, we're on a closed course, a round course. And down low. So the true air speeds aren't there. When you look at some of the pictures of the airplane taxiing in at Cleveland, there's a black streak all the way to the rudder post and the tongue's hanging out on that thing. So you know he never came off the stop in that race. It went to altitude and stayed there the whole time. How old was he when he won the race? Any idea, Joe? I'm not sure. He appears to be in his 40s in the picture. Yeah. Well, maybe late 30s because he was in the military in the war. He was probably only 25. The war might have aged him. Yeah. So it aged a lot of people. All right. I have a question about the questions. Are we going to have an opportunity to do questions? We are. There are some folks out there that we can... Okay. I'll open it up. And I think we're going to try to stay in here. I think that's the best. But if there are questions out there, I think we've got a microphone that can be passed around. And I see Bruce out there. I think that's Bruce. Okay, we've got a question. So let's let the questions roll. Where will the airplane be displayed for the rest of the event here at Ostrich. All right, hard to hear. Let's see. Where will the airplane be displayed for the rest of the convention? Where will it be displayed for the rest of the convention? Warbridge, right down here at the end of the pavement. Down where they see that pylon that's set up behind the barnstormers apparel. So the airplane will be right in front of that. Okay, so it'll be there when the weather cooperates. We'll leave it at that. Anybody else? Any other questions out there? Gentlemen, thanks for a great presentation. Did Jimmy Stewart actually fly Thunderbird? Not that we're aware of. Well, actually, that's not true. Really? I have a Western Guns article that the kid's dad was an actor, a western actor with Jimmy Stewart, and he talks about his dad had an air coupe and took him off to the airport one day to have a meeting with Jimmy Stewart and Jimmy Stewart taxied in a blue Mustang. Really? I haven't seen that article. I've been looking. What up on Warren? He's the fact checker now. All right. I didn't know that one for sure. The airplane appears to have a demodeled wing on it. Can you tell me why? A demodeled wing? Yep, I can. When the airplane originally had a problem with James Cook, it was because the gear was trapped. And C models, and Bernie correct me if I'm wrong, but C model wings were inferior to demodeled wings. And the fact that they only had one up lock on the clam doors and I think it was at the back of clam doors and they had a little bit of history about at speed the doors coming open and the gear coming out and a wing coming off the airplane or something like that. In the early stages of P-51 existence they originally didn't have up locks on the clam doors. And they had a couple instances where the gear didn't make the actual up lock, and under G, the gear came out. So then they modified them, they put up locks on the clam doors to fix that. But sometimes those were problematic on the early airplanes. And so this particular airplane ended up with one main gear out, the tail wheel out, one main gear hung. The guy must have been a little inexperienced or probably just didn't care because there was a thousand of them out there. So he elected to climb the altitude and jump out. Any of us would have put the gear up and bellied it in and would have done a lot less damage. And I knew that Bernie was going to be flying at an air show, so I wanted the best possible wing, the strongest wing we could put on it. So to answer the question and make a long story really short, it's got a D-wing because the landing gear system is better, in our opinion. There's going to be a thousand people that argue it. There's a thousand different ways to skin something. This is just what he chose to do. North American chose to improve the gear system, and I would rather be that way. And they actually built the C model with a D wing on it. And they tested that airplane and in the process of putting a bubble on top of the airplane, I'm sure they elected, well, let's just keep the BC production line going and we're going to transfer over here to that and live with what we've got. But that's the reason for the D wing. And actually, I haven't flown it, but I kind of think the D wing with the combination of the C-Fuse Lodge is maybe a little faster than a C, and it's a little better approach speeds. It's because of the extra can of leading edge on it and stuff. Why do you put a brand new aluminum big block in your Chevy? Yeah. Because it's better. Yeah, exactly. So anyway, that's the answer for the DUI. And you know, we kind of got a local expert here about landing Mustangs with only, let's see, a tail wheel and one, yeah, I think Connie, Connie, didn't you have that problem? This program isn't about Warren. Yeah, but Warren wants to work. You can check YouTube. Yeah, but there was an up lock issue with the plane shell door. And I had one gear jammed up and the other one came down. And then I could not retract the one that was down because the dog ears are down locked. Safety issue for the ground. So anyway, I had to land the airplane with one gear up and one down. And that's been a long time ago. And the airplane is flying right now. Right here, by the way. That's the good news. Yeah. Okay, just wanted to let you know. All right, any other questions out there? No? It looks like we're good. All right, I'll ask the panel here. Anything more you want to bring up about the - You know, when the airplane. Okay, and Bernie's going to be flying it some more here? Possibly, yes. There's some scheduling things that may happen or may not happen. It is scheduled right now for Thursday. And Saturday, it may get changed to a P-47. Okay. So we're just kinda. Okay. We're. Flexibility key to air power. Yep, okay. Yep. And for me, it was really an interesting airplane to research, because all the restorations that I've done or researched for Air Corps and Dakota Territory have been military. And this one was completely different. The sources, picture permissions, everything was way different than doing a military airplane. But it was just fascinating how connected that was to history from the late 40s to all the way up to when it was lost, the coronation and all of that. Anything, Warren? I think you covered a lot here. I think it's a beautiful, beautiful airplane. It's got quite the history as we started out. History, heritage, heroes, we've talked about all those. And this airplane represents all that. And yeah, I thank you for what you've done with the airplane. I look forward to the campaigning of it in the future. I think the more people that see it and understand the story, I think more people will appreciate it. And I have one request for the people that come see him. Reno, Reno, it's the last Reno. I would agree. I think that would be terribly appropriate, you know, if that thing was out there. I think that, yep, yep. All right. In that case, I'll say thank you very much, folks out in the stands here for being here and putting up with the inclement weather. At least it didn't rain, I don't think, out there. And yeah, you gentlemen, I'll say now, thank you. Thank you. Again, I appreciate the knowledge. Thank you. Safe flying out there, Bernie, with this thing. And yeah, we look forward. We got another Dakota airplane this afternoon, from what I understand. We've got... P-47. We've got Bonnie, a P-47, and that starts at 1 o'clock today. That's where the real originality battle comes in. Them guys were restoring this bad alongside this, and they were super original on the P-47. I would have loved to have been a fly on the wall. The guys would hand Tessler something and go, I don't want that, that doesn't go in here. Yeah, but they want. Anyway, thank you. Are you going to be here for this afternoon too, Bernie, for the P-47? Yes, I will be. OK, good. All right, so you'll see him again. All right, thank you, folks. We appreciate it, and we'll see you this afternoon.