A work of art created by nature: Amboina wood. Inspiration and material at the same time for a table with inlays. I love the inlays. On the one hand because I love wood and because I have a lot of beautiful wood in the inlays on a small area. Then, with inlays, it's all about finding a beautiful shape while still allowing the wood to live. Yes, and then just the combination of the different types of wood. The wood store, in a way the library of cabinetmaker Volker Luck. Next to the workshop, the most important place of inspiration. The Karlsruher is one of the specialists worldwide when it comes to the restoration of historical furniture and furniture construction. But inlays are also his passion. We have about 130 types of wood here. Some of these are very old stocks that I also took over from old carpenters' shops. What we're picking out here is Macassar ebony. What matters to me now is that I have the right thickness and a nice grain, just like I imagine the whole table to be afterwards. This Macassar Ebony is from old approved stock. Now I need bird's eyes at the back for the base. Here we now see a bird's eye maple, the sugar maple from Canada. There are many theories as to how these small eyes, which you will see even better after planing, came about. One theory says these are birds picking out the sugar syrup. And as a result, there are channels that then grow over again and then express the bird's eye maple like this. So, that'll be the pedestal later. (Rumble) The wood has been chosen, but the first thing to do now is to build the tabletop, a plain foundation. But every work of art needs a stage on which it can unfold. The basis for the inlays is prepared. I have a beech multiplex board here, on which I would like to veneer the veneer later. I'll cut the board square now. (Saw) Then octagonal for gluing or gluing in the ebony before veneering the panel. Volker Luck milled an edge around the table top into which he inserted solid pieces of ebony. (Saw) So, the next step is to cut the wood so that I can glue it into the fold here , as already mentioned . With the valuable wood from the Indonesian island of Sulawesi , there should be as little waste as possible. Jewelery designers buy the leftovers from the manufacture of the table . Today precious woods are often traded by the kilo. He cut the Macassar ebony to 22.5 degrees so that he could place it in the milled edge. First octagonal for the round table at the end. I love this ebony. I did my master's degree as an ebeniste in France. And &quot;Ebeniste&quot; translates to &quot;carpenter&quot; in German, but ultimately means &quot;ebony worker&quot;. Ebony is very heavy, has a high density and does not float. Because normal white glue does not anchor well in the pores of the dense wood, the cabinet maker uses PU glue here. PU glue also has another advantage: it sets faster. (Creaking) (Rumbling) And with the help of the band saw, the table top is then given its round shape. Now this is a very nice device on the band saw, a compass device. I can now swing the center over this template into the paper, turn it around once, and then I roughly pre-cut this panel, clean, round. Elaborate and yet only the basis for the inlay work. The cabinet maker will find the matching noble veneer in his treasury. Yes, we are here with me in the veneer warehouse. As you can see, a huge amount. I have around 100, 120, 130 different types or variations of veneer. I don't know exactly myself. Here specifically in the area we have my dark woods, especially my ebony. And I've decided to make the outer border of the table in ebony because I just want to work with a strong contrast. But while searching, I stumbled across my white ebony, for example, which I would love to see in the table. But the contrast is not strong enough for me. But when you see that, it's just a dream as a veneer. You have to imagine what it will look like afterwards when you unfold it, unfold it. You can build endlessly beautiful furniture from there. Works of art drawn by nature, translated into marquetry, framed by a frieze. I'm now going to cut the eight segments that I'm going to lay around the outside as a frieze. Of course you notice that the ebony is very, very hard. The saw is super sharp, but that makes you sweat. The grain of the veneer should absorb each other and again result in a harmonious overall picture. Putting the cut individual pieces together like this is like a jigsaw puzzle. The carpenter glues the segments together with water-soluble joint paper. When everything is veneered, Volker Luck can remove it while it is still wet. The joints are glued so that the wood no longer slips and can be cut in a later step. The Ebeniste later glues the underside to the table. Therefore, the grains do not have to fit together exactly. That's the bottom, but now you can see it without the paper. And back to the carpenter's favorite spot. In his treasury, he selects the Amboyna burl veneer for the inlay work. Yes, here we are with me now in the part dedicated primarily to figured veneers. Burl are nodules that everyone may have seen on a tree before. And when they are cut open afterwards , what is actually a small branch on the outside is a turbulence in the wood. And here, for example, we have a wood that pretty much everyone could have seen before, just didn't know that there was something so beautiful in there. This is a very ordinary poplar burl. It is often found on rivers that the poplars have such large tubers and lots of little twigs peek out of the tubers. If I then take it and cut it open, then I have such a fantastically beautiful picture. But down here in the dungeon I went for the amboina grain, which I combine with the ebony. I have chosen ... this sheet. Yes, here too, if I were to unfold it, I would already have a whole tree. But I'll take this leaf to cut out quarters here afterwards to get as round a shape as possible between the red core and the white sapwood. For me, it's pure nature that comes across here, and I'd like to incorporate that into the table as the center. To match the round shape of the table, Volker Luck opted for an Amboina grain that was as round as possible. But to get a perfect circle, he works with a mirror trick. So he knows exactly where to cut his veneer. And with the angle I now cut out exactly a quarter. The amboina burl veneer is significantly softer than ebony. It is therefore also easier to cut out. (Cut sounds) The intarsia... gives me the opportunity to express myself artistically. In this case, artistic expression means not only designing something yourself, but also having an eye for putting the right piece in the right place. In order to produce such veneers, whole stems or tubers are soft-boiled in huge tanks for days. Prepared in this way, they come out of the basin, are clamped into machines and sawn or sliced into wafer-thin sheets. I just drew this circle now so I have roughly the outside diameter. Because I'm going to break out the grain here now. Given like a map by nature and designed by the cabinet maker. It is commonly referred to as marquetry, but strictly speaking it is marquetry. The cabinet maker designs a marquetry, a veneer pattern that is glued onto a body. Today one also speaks of inlays. Strictly speaking, however, parts of the intarsia are lifted out of the wooden background and the pieces are inserted directly into the wood. I now cut exactly the contours that I previously marked with the pen. You can already tell that it is exhausting to get through the ebony. The master carpenter reinterprets old techniques, and yet he sees himself in a long tradition of inlays. I never met my grandfather, never met my great-grandfather. But at some point we found this record in the attic. And that's part of my great-grandfather's masterpiece. He was a carpenter himself. We have different inlays here. These four fields, for example. This is an inlay that is cut out with a saw. All four parts and probably also the ebony were placed on top of each other and then the contour was driven with a very fine saw blade. In principle, you can then make four negatives and four positives by inserting black into the light or the light into the black. Out here we have a block inlay, a band inlay. Rosewood is glued between two layers of veneer. So a maple and again an ebony. And then sliced to pre-made such tapes. Yes, working in the tradition of my great-grandfather. The cabinet maker and his source of inspiration: After years of wandering in Europe, the master craftsman examination in France and Germany, Volker Luck fell completely in love with the natural material wood. The intarsia, I quite consciously put one piece of wood into another in a form I found. And with this table, what is important to me now is this broken outer edge of the Amboina grain, that the shape is inlaid as the Amboina grain grew with its small eyes. The carpenter glues the entire surface onto the base frame ... and covers it with cardboard. In this way, the tabletop does not stick in the veneer press. (Machine whirring) The table top rests overnight in the press, and the next morning Volker Luck takes it back to his workshop to check the result. Here you can see very nicely how it pushed the PU glue through to these small pores that you can hardly see and then glued it to the cardboard. (Machine whirring) One of the most beautiful moments for Volker Luck: The fine touch reveals the unusual structure of the inlay and exposes the unique piece piece by piece. (Machine roar) So that the heavy board later appears light, the master carpenter mills the edge at an angle. And here below you can see the ebony that I glued in as an octagon around it. And what was important now was that the ebony was deep enough so that I didn't come out in the plywood here at the mitres . So I am very satisfied. It worked well. And then the panel is ready for painting. (Machine roar) The varnish gives the record hardness, and clarity, depth and luminosity are created. A veneer that tells a story. The central table leg made of light bird's eye maple is still missing, the contrast to the dark top. Sawn conically and designed as a foundation for the table top. To take up the theme, the joints on the leg are additionally inlaid with ebony veneer. And the signature of the master, the stamp, must not be missing. (hiss) Inlaid furniture has been around for centuries shaped the craft of the cabinetmaker. Today there are only a few cabinet makers who have mastered this art. A table with marquetry, prepared by nature, finished by the carpenter. (grinding noises) Does craftsmanship fascinate you as much as it does us? Then subscribe to the channel now and don't miss an episode. SWR 2023