(fast-paced piano music) - Are great CEOs born or made? Can you learn the skills to or does it take inherent talent? Have we got CEO hiring practices right, and how should we change them if we want to make the Welcome to The Big Question, from Chicago Booth Review. I'm Hal Weitzman, and with is an expert panel. Steven Kaplan is the Neubauer Professor of Entrepreneurship He's also the faculty director for the Polsky Center for at Chicago Booth. His research focuses on private equity, venture capital, and corporate finance, and he serves on the boards Mary Lou Gorno is Managing Director of Ingenuity International, the where she leads the CEO and board practice for Fortune 500, mid-cap, and She's also a trustee of Lyndon Taylor is the partner of Heidrick &amp; Struggles. He focuses on CEO and board banking, and consumer financial services. He also co-leads the firm's diversity advisory services practice. And Constantine of Russell Reynolds Associates as well as its global He's an expert in Board succession, search, and assessment. Panel, welcome to The Big Question. Since our three headhunters welcome back to the University of Chicago. Steve Kaplan, let me start with you, because you've actually and what companies are What did you find? - I had a very nice sample, of almost 3,000 candidates So you could see what a CEO - Compared to a chief financial officer? a chief financial officer, and people in the divisions. What you find is CEOs are different. How are they different? Well, when you look at and experience, there that come out of the data. Those four factors are talent, execution, charisma, and creative strategic ability. The CEOs, relative to more execution oriented, more charismatic, and more creative and strategic. - Just to dig in very slightly, those are pretty broad terms, talent. So what do we mean by them? - Talent is really kind of everything. Somebody who scored high on one thing tended to score high on a lot. Talent would be being charismatic, being execution oriented, Sort of everything they were rated on, they would tend to score well. - I see, so being a good all-arounder. - [Steven] Exactly. - Generally skilled and-- - Exactly. - [Hal] All right. Now, does that suggest - What that suggests is and there is a CEO type. What was nice about this data who were not CEO candidates, so it was kind of an out-of-sample test. Then, we looked at which later in their careers. It turned out it was the same variables, so the more talented, the the more charismatic, and - Mary Lou Gorno, does this kind of chime with your world? You're looking for CEOs. Are these the sorts of - I'm happy to say I think they are. As you think about the I would capture the things, the factors, that Steve just talked about. I might place one additional element, that I think resolve, unwavering resolve is very, very important. I might actually place that in a separate and distinct category, I'm sure, incorporated in that four. - It's in execution. It is a big measure or - Lyndon Taylor, does this a CEO type? - To some extent, I think it does. I think of it broadly as leadership types, who succeeds as leaders. To some extent, a CEO, a has strong leadership. All the things that Steve talked about, those are all leadership and CEOs are leaders. They not only have those they have the ability that people can buy-in. It goes partly to the charismatic aspect that Steve talked about. A great leader has the and get people to follow. So, you see a constant thing, and they attract talent. All of those things go together, and that makes someone a - Constantine, what do you isolating characteristics - Our studies at Russell that there are definitely CEOs from non-CEOs and great To your question about are we also think that there are different contexts and that the best ones are depending on the situation Whether it's a CEO that can of trying to fend off a competitive threat to one that can move of bringing various stakeholders together in order to amplify what with their business strategy. - Does that mean you would be looking for a different type of person in those two situations? - Absolutely, yes. - In your view, there isn't - There are characteristics that characterize the but those will vary depending - Steve Kaplan, quite a lot of attention, when this research came out, was focused on the fact that CEOs didn't necessarily have to be nice. - Correct. So, where does that come from? The data, if you look at this the flip side of that is being agreeable. Being agreeable means being a team player, treating people with respect, In the data, those people are Then, in another paper that I have, those characteristics to how the company and the CEO performs. What's relevant is the execution side. The more I learn and the more I see, the more I believe that If somebody is too nice and too agreeable, they are not going to get things done. They are going to be They are going to be slow, to the people who do - Steve Kaplan, just to be clear, then, does that mean that are actually two - Likability, I think, is the wrong word. I think agreeableness is the right word. If you look, again, at the there's this trade-off and being execution oriented. I think that comes from when you execute, when you move fast, sometimes you step on toes and you appear not to be agreeable. If you are consensus you're going to appear agreeable. I think there is a definite The danger of being too agreeable is that you don't get things done and you frustrate the people Again, in the other paper, were the people who were successful. - Just to explain, your once the CEOs are in position, - Exactly. In talking to executives and talking to private equity investors, this actually resonates. If you want an example Steve Jobs and Jeff Bezos are two people who are not but boy do they get things done and people like to work for them because these companies Despite the fact that it may not be &quot;the nicest&quot; environment. - They have the vision thing and the leadership skills. Mary Lou? - You know, I was thinking not all great leaders become great CEOs. Many do, and I think the difference is just what Steve is talking about, is that great leaders have Bottom line, impact. If you're unable to do but you haven't made that - You don't have to be a jerk. I'm not saying you have to be a jerk. I think you can be agreeable but they are sometimes in conflict. If you have to get things done, sometimes you will, you - Our data supports that, but it also says that the best CEOs tend to be unpretentious and So something to think about. - Unpretentious makes - Makes them able to get their to execute more effectively. - My questions would be not getting bogged down in decision-making with letting everyone have their say and listening to people? - I mean, that's part of if you look at it. We've looked at it, and great So they're willing to take take in the data, and make a decision. They're willing, as to make a decision, to live by it. People can agree or not agree. If you look at great leaders, great CEOs, quite frankly, as well, make decisions and lead. People follow because They're willing to execute. They take the risk. - Right, and the worst thing - Yes. - Then, you know nothing will happen. If you make a decision and it's wrong, if you fix it, you can but you've made a decision. - I think, going on about being unpretentious, an element of that is being genuine. - How do you, as a - It's not easy. Part of it is just talking how they've achieved success and the environment that - Very much so. I think what we are increasingly doing is focusing on the science behind our art. Our art is to help select Increasingly, we're how do leaders make For example, we have a tool which looks at how does a leader lead. What's their style? Certain leaders fit certain styles, as Constantine talked about, You're looking to bring together a team that has complimentary leadership styles to then move the organization forward. - It's a combination of data - Now, how much comes from versus reference checks Those are three different-- - It's all part of it. - So you do all three? - Yes. I think what you find is Where is that something is incongruent to what you found in the interview to what the psychometric to what their reference says. What you generally look at, for us, is we take the first two, in which we take the reference to look at where there might But they all come together. - To what extent, then, in your mind, is this leadership you talk (panel members laugh) - I will say this, I don't believe that I think great leaders are developed. If that's the case, I probably wouldn't be A lot of us would not be in this room. There is a element and mentorship that great leaders have. I think that one of the we didn't talk about They're quick and adaptive learners. The context of this is you put they learn from it, and they grow from it. So I don't think they're - I might add a little more that I think that foundation and I would weight toward - And what's the evidence for that? It's the fact that there who got their early career So it was that exposure that allowed them to apply their traits and become successful. - I would say, on the data side, the fact that these people are rated at a certain point in time and five, 10 years later, it's predictive, that suggests there's something It may be it's not clear because these people were all assessed in their probably their 40s, but it's something that does last. It's not learned in the sense that the stuff when you're That said, some of I'm convinced, you can teach In fact, that's what Sheryl Lean In is basically go execute. Charisma, which is being - [Constantine] Or EQ. - Is something where I think some people are more but you can certainly improve on that. My wife tells me I did that. (panel members laugh) I was her project. - You did it well. (laughs) - Thank you. The creative strategic, I'm not sure. So there are some things There's some things I think you - Steve, you found a between CEOs and who become CEOs and who become CFOs and COOs. - What are the differences there? - What was a bit surprising was the CFOs were almost the opposite of the CEOs. Whereas the CEOs were That's probably not surprising. Where the CEOs were creative strategic, the CFOs were more managerial, bureaucratic. What was surprising were the CEOs were very execution oriented. The CFOs were actually more agreeable in terms of consensus and et cetera. On the talent side, the than the CFOs. I tell the CFOs when I present this, it's not that you're bad people. It's just that you're in this group, which is a very high-end group. The CEOs look different from the CFOs. - Does that chime with hiring CFOs? - I think it does. There is a bifurcation in terms of some of these characteristics, because you have to look at one needs in their role to succeed. I think you're absolutely how you would separate those. I think the question I'd love is how that CFO translates - Which there are several - Exactly. - That's where the CFOs are more likely to become CEOs. - Exactly, and successful. - It's the execution. It's the charisma. - Which is probably harder, and then being creative and strategic. - Conversely, do we know more technocratic CFOs, if they make it to the CEO - Do not know. I mean, what I can tell you which the data are less good on, is that the charisma is less important. The agreeableness is less important. What matters is the execution in terms of being successful. - So you can get by without charisma as long as you get stuff done? - That appears to be the case. Also, the charisma is a Some people who are charismatic are the type who bring I think sometimes they're and are maybe a bit narcissistic and may not be so good as leaders. - From my experience, sometimes someone who is charismatic is more valued outside the firm as they are - Did you guys have a view? - Yes. and it gets you up. Once you're there, if it's a charisma that but not getting things - I think there is something to be said for the charisma of servant leadership. People and colleagues tend to follow people who In your example, Jeff we would say they have a but what was attractive, it doesn't seem to be about them. It's about the business. Contrast that with, this will date me, a Chainsaw Al type of charisma. Which was about what I'm doing is about me versus what I'm doing is about the organization and the people. - The charisma issue is tricky, especially in the selection process. When a CEO candidate and the board is looking at him or her, they sometimes have the appeal of the charisma of the substance of what So it's tricky. - I think agreeableness If you're very agreeable, like you more. They may overweight that of what you've got done. - All your firms use a lot of data and psychometric testing you referred to. Do you find that that reproduces Constantine? - No, because every outcome I don't think it creates an inherent bias, but there is an issue around diversity Part of it is driven by norms and things in our Part of it also driven by the fact that boards of directors aren't super diverse and also the pool of candidates isn't as diverse as it could be. Very small proportion of women, very small proportion of other minorities. That all does create some sameness in the types of people and we all need to work - I'm wondering if the reason is because we set a certain kind of test or a certain kind of that reproduce what we already have? - I don't think so, because the testing is relatively new, in the last decade. So it's more around who's who's available in the pool to and a number of other factors. - Mary Lou, what's your view about how we would achieve more diversity, both of opinion, so we who agree with the board, - I think one of the is the culture of an organization. If you look at the if they embrace change, and encourage it and I think that would provide a richer pool of candidates. I think that's very, very important, particularly for the CEO, as a leader, to demonstrate that in diversity is honored in the organization. I think that would have a huge impact. - [Hal] Lyndon, do you agree? - I think I agree wholeheartedly. I think there's a little bit of subcontext we've noticed in our data, Boards, executives, tends to like people who not only look like them You can be diverse but the team that you're joining. There's a big part of it, where you're going to feel a part of it. The most successful over time change and adapt. Which means that they have but they're also willing and new perspectives. Part of our assessment looks at that, is how open is an organization. That is an element of diversity, Do you look or act diverse or say you have diversity of thought? Are you open to change, to new ideas? - But there's nothing, in your that reproduces the - Not exactly, no. - [Hal] In the testing, in - No. - I would add two things. First of all, in the data that we had, the women scored basically so there wasn't a big Then, the second thing I would say is the pool is getting bigger. At least for women, where when I started, I think the MBA class was probably a quarter women. Now, it's over 40%. You'll see, over time, Now, whether it gets to 50%, who knows, but I think over time, bigger pools of more diverse candidates. Also, you see white men of college graduates over time. - Did you think that the kind of tests, the kind of assessments that you used to select the candidates, are they presumably So will we know more and more about the kinds of characteristics - Absolutely. As the data pool grows, and refine the questions, refine the analysis around the data. I don't think we'll be one can just take the test without any human intervention - We'll take the DNA. Perhaps I'm short-sighted in But it is constantly improving, our ability to predict - What I-- Sorry. - I was just going to is it helps us make better decisions and inform better decisions. So as we gather our own it's strongly impacted by this. They're inextricably linked, better decision-makers. - To what extent do you draw as opposed to a lot of you To what extent do you look - Actually, going back a few years ago, we actually contrasted and to say is the data coming how does it sync with, How does it sync with what we're finding from the diagnostic tools and see where there is a difference or where they match up or is validated from that perspective. - Steve's data is not It's real business data. - It all helps us. - We'll accept it. (panel members laugh) - Usually, it's the other way around. - Thank you, thank you. (panel members laugh) - Remember, we're the Well, on that note, I'm My thanks to our panel: Steve Kaplan, Mary Lou and Constantine Alexandrakis. For more research, visit us online at Join us again next time Goodbye. (fast-paced piano music)