The space shuttle, you would hear during launch the announcer saying shuttle now passing through the region of Max Q, which was maximum dynamic pressure. Well, I said, hey, you know what? There's lots of noise, lots of buffeting, lots of vibration, no music at all. Hey, that's us. So let's call the band Max Q. Well, here we are again in Hoot's hanger, a great place to be. It's a new day, and if there were some miracle that could happen, I wish I could interview the shirt you're wearing. Could you? Could we talk about where that shirt has been? The shirt that I'm wearing is a polo shirt, of course, and what happened along the way in the Space shuttle program, the first two times I flew, NASA maintained a big inventory of of trousers and shirts and all these kinds of things. And after every mission they'd have to go to the cleaners and get cleaned, and then they'd have to get folded and stored carefully in in bonded storage and all that and after my first two flights, so starting in about 1988, NASA figured out, you know what? It would be a whole lot more economical and a whole lot more feasible if we just let the aircrews pick out shirts from various outfits that sell these sorts of things, have a monogram with their flight number on it, and then we let them keep the shirts at the end of it. That was less expensive. Then maintaining a a big inventory of shirts. So as a result, starting with my third mission to space, I was able to have shirts embroidered with which flight they were and what vehicle. And the one I'm wearing was from my last mission to space, the docking with the Russians on the space station MIR on STS-71. So this shirt actually went to space and spent 10 days in space with me. Was that shirt in MIR? Did you? Did you? Wear it across? I did wear it across. Very Cool. So this shirt I think is the one I wore. We had a the day we got there we had a very special shirt, similar that all the crew members were wearing. We even bought. We even bought a shirt for our two Russian friends that were with us, Anatoly Solovyve and Nikolai Budarin, so that when we arrived to the Mir space station for the docking, we were all wearing the same shirt. This shirt is the one that we decided we'd wear, if I'm remembering it right, that we would wear for the big press conference we had on day two after we joined up, or day three, something like that. So it I actually wore it aboard the shuttle and aboard the Russian Mir space station. If only it could talk. Well, I I yeah, I have to talk for it. So so I've I've told. You might edit some things. I've told its story, but yeah, it's been really a pleasing thing to have, and I'm going to preserve as much of the things that I got to take to space for my kids and grandkids. So this won't this won't show up on eBay. Well, it's it's a historic thing and it's it's fun to have it here. Hoot, don't? Can we talk a little bit about the hangar itself? This is you built this and it, and it certainly is reflective of, if not the most amazing aviation career in American history, one of the most. Tell us a little bit about some of the things that are in here, not just the models and I know you're a big model guy and still fly them, but your guitars. Your relate your close relationship with the Eagles and tell us a little bit about how this all came together. I've been into radio controlled models all my life and I really enjoy the daylights out of the radio controlled jets. Now these are not turbo jet models, these are electric ducted fans, what we call an electric ducted fan. So it's a three phase motor, a three phase A/C motor that is being powered by a DC battery. How do you get three phase A/C power with a DC battery? Well, it goes through a device called an electronic speed controller or ESC, and it constructs a pseudo three phase A/C power. Well, that means that you don't have commutators on your electric motors, you don't have arcing across the commutators and the brushes and all of that. So as a result. There are minimal losses out of these things, so these things positively scream. And these ducted fans, the larger ones, 90 millimeter diameter, and I've even got 110 and 120 millimeter fans, they probably only spin about 40,000 RPM. But the smaller ones can spin as much as 50,000 RPM. And so if you have a 10 bladed fan spinning at 40,000 RPM, it makes a whooshing sound. It makes the kind of whining sound that a jet engine makes, and it sounds just like a jet engine is what it sounds like. Now the battery technology is very good. They're lithium polymer batteries that we're using. But you're only going to get about three, maybe five minutes, depending on the size of the battery and the size of the motor. You're only going to get about three or five minutes of runtime in a jet model in a jet model. But anyway, having said all that, the wife and I decided that we wanted to move all of my models out of the upstairs family room, where they were an incredible clutter. They were stacked up in the corners. They were stacked up in a rack that I made for them. They were really cluttering up the upstairs family room. So we decided to build this and put the vaulted ceilings with wood paneling so that I could put screw hooks in anywhere I wanted to and hang up the models. So these are all radio controlled flying jets that I have hanging up here in the. I refer to it sometimes as the party room, sometimes as the ready room, like the ready room that you had on an aircraft carrier. Each squadron had their own ready room and it's, it's been called a man cave. Although one of the one of my wife's wine friends that came to see it said, Oh my gosh, this isn't a man cave, this is a museum. And so it has really been an enjoyable thing. We've had it for just about exactly 2 years now. And all these models are hung with bungee cords and leashes and things so that you can grab them and go fly them, right? Yes, I keep a ladder nearby so that I can get up on the ladder and release. It's either a dog leash or a bungee cord that is hooked into ihooks that I've put up in the ceiling, so it's very easy to get them down. And you've either assembled or built from scratch all of these. Is that correct? That's correct. Now many of these come. To where all they need to be is assembled and you you, you put them together. And they've really evolved over the about the last four years or so where it's it's rarer that any glue is required. So mostly you put them together with screws and bolts and things like that. Although I have several of them up here that are scratch built models because nobody made a particular model. So back behind me is a model of the Douglas skyrocket, in my opinion one of the best looking airplanes ever built. And nobody made a radio controlled model of it except for me. So I made myself a mold and I made a fiberglass body for it and made the wings out of plywood and and balsa wood and covered them in fiberglass and all of that sort of thing. And it was, it was Scott Crossfield. Scotty Crossfield's airplane other he let other people fly it once in a while, but was. The first man to go Mach 2, right? Scotty was the first one to go Mach 2 in the Douglas Skyrocket, and I had always admired Scotty so very much and had the privilege of being on stage with him three different times doing a talk called rocket pilots then and now. And what an honour it was to be on the same stage with Scotty. So I wanted a model of it. I'm not sure I'm going to fly it. It took me a year to build that. It was a lot of work and and I I I spared no hardship to make it as perfect as I could possibly make it. So now I don't. I don't know that I'm going to fly it, but I don't know that I want to risk it. But I have to admit, it's a it's a pretty gorgeous model. Did it ever occur to you when you're working on something like that? That this is, this is what I was doing when I was seven or eight, and here I am on the other end, still making models. It does. And a Model one model that I made I remember I made when I was eight years old. I don't think it flew very well, but it was a balsa wood and tissue model of the Bell-X1 and I drew myself a plan. And and and it was, you know, it was close. It's a pretty usual stuff for an eight year old making models. So so I I I drew a plan of it and I cut out bulkheads and and glued it all together with stringers and all that and then covered it with tissue paper. I don't know that I have any photos of it at all, but the point of it all is I've been building scratch built models all my life. Virtually all my life. Well. When you are curious about something you you go all in. There's no halfway for Hoot. And we've talked a little bit about your your guitar collection and as I was entering the hangar see a big box like a roadie box from a a band and it says on it Eagles and being this environment I'm thinking okay, gathering of Eagles, young Eagles. It was the Eagles, right? Can you tell us a little about that? It was the Eagles. Yes, I'm part of an all astronaut rock band and where this came from was 1987, the year after the tragic challenger accident. We had been to a lot of memorial services and the like and we had started to investigate the challenger accident because we had to determine why did this happen. One of the big questions we needed to answer, and I was part of the investigation down at Cape Canaveral from January through April. I was down there every week, every single day of every week working on the investigation. We had to answer the question, did this happen because we assembled it incorrectly, or did this happen because it was a design deficiency and of course it wound up being a design deficiency. We had assembled it correctly. But it took us two months to get through all the paperwork and all the documentation, and we went through. We went through a really difficult time. All of us did. So the summer after that, the chief astronaut said, you know what, we need a party. And so we're going to have a sock hop, a 1950s sock hop, and they encouraged people to come up with dance acts and mouth lip sync acts and the like. And one of the other astronauts and I had played our guitars and sang at a couple of astronaut parties in the past and I never forget. He walked into my office on Tuesday. The sock hop was to be on Friday. He walked into my office Tuesday afternoon and said hey Hooter. You suppose we ought to get us up a four man rock band to play at the sock hop? And I said what a great idea that is! And so three of us got together Wednesday night and Thursday night and we had picked out two other well, one other guitar player and and we we we had a a little bit of an argument over who was going to be lead guitar. Brewster Shaw. Said OK, well look, I could, I can play rhythm. I can't play anything else. I can't play bass and I I can't be a lead guitar player. So OK, he gets to be rhythm. Pinky Nelson said. Well, I can play bass or I could play rhythm, but there is no way on God's green Earth that I can be a lead guitar player. And I said OK, well look, I can play rhythm. I can't play bass, but I am not a lead guitar player. Well, I had the weakest denial. So they said, OK, you're lead. So that's how I got that's I didn't have to audition for it. It was, it was, you know, by denial, basically. And I didn't have a strong enough denial. So they said, Okay, you're the lead guitar. So we only got together those two nights. We picked a drummer, but his drums were in New York, and he needed to get his dad to ship his drums to them. They got to him on Friday, but I was out of town Friday on something, some NASA business. So the three of them got together. The first time all four of us got together and played was actually at the sock hop. Well, they loved us. Oh, I need to mention I didn't have an electric guitar at that point. So I went down to the local pawn shop that was about three miles away from where I lived and I bought a bought an electric guitar and an amplifier because I didn't have either of those things and obviously needed it for this sock hop. Well, they loved us. They just loved us. And so next thing we knew. We were getting asked to play at weddings. You. Do you remember the songs you practiced and did at the sock Hop? We did. I I remember most of them. We did Pinky Nelson, our bass guitar player, put together a Chuck Berry medley. So we played &quot;Johnny Be Good&quot; We played also rock'n'roll music. We played &quot;Maybelline&quot;. I got to sing &quot;Maybelline&quot;. And so we did. We did those. Each one of us, each one of the three guitar players sang at least one of those one of those parts in the thing. We did that. I sang &quot;Needles and Pins&quot;. We also did instrumental &quot;Walk Don't Run&quot;. So since I was the lead guitar player and the the the lead to &quot;Walk Don't Run&quot; is easy enough that I can play it, even I can play it. So we did that and let me think those are most of them, but like I say they they just loved us and and from then on we played as a band. All the way through it. It was four.? It was lead, bass, rhythm and drums. And drums. And then after about six months or so, we added a keyboard player. So Steve Hawley joined us as keyboards. Jim Weatherby was our drummer. And so that was the original five. We got asked to play at a big space symposium in Tucson, three years ago, called Space Fest and. On that occasion they wanted us to be the dance band for the whole evening, so we put together three hours worth of of music. This is like an Eagles reunion. It is. It's very much like an Eagles reunion. And then, just a week ago, the band got asked to play, accompanied by the Orlando Philharmonic Orchestra. And suddenly they've started the finding that some of our crew could really play. And then they reached out and they found the guy who had a set of drums and they went to Stevie. Doctor, Steve Hawley, PhD in astronomy. And they said, he said, I'll go buy a keyboard. And they formed the first astronaut Band and named themselves Max Q. Which is the maximum dynamic pressure that a rocket senses as it is going uphill. As it accelerates Max Q, It makes a lot of noise and you hope it's all syncopate. But no music. So you are going to have the original Max Q. And I've never seen them intimidated until tonight. So I just got back from that event as well and we hadn't played together in three years. So it's always, I don't know if the word struggle is the right word, but it's always a an evolution to get ourselves back into playing together. But it's been so much fun. Well, you asked about all the guitars. Well, you asked about what time it was, and I told you how to design and build a watch. But over the years, over the years, that that crummy guitar that I had from the pawn shop was painted up and designed to look like a Les Paul. And it wasn't a Les Paul. I don't know what brand it was, but it was not a real Les Paul. And for anybody that doesn't know, Les Paul invented the electric guitar. He well, he and and Leo Fender I think were were the two that were right about at the same time that that evolved into the solid body electric guitar and the two of them. So Les Paul was the first guitar solid body guitar that Gibson came out with. And of course the Fender Stratocaster which I have one of those of course you got to have a Stratocaster. So over the years I would go a couple of years and I'd say you know what, I don't have a 335 so I I got a Gibson 335 and and then well you know I mentioned the Stratocaster I said you know, I kind of like the sound of the Stratocaster as well, so I should, I should have one of those as well. And I should have an acoustic electric. So I got a Martin. And So what would happen is I would acquire a new guitar. Didn't get rid of any of the older ones, the ones that I had before, because why would you? I mean, they're, they're wonderful, fun things. And I've really loved playing the guitar. It's the kind of instrument where you can just sit down all by yourself and play it instrumentally and play the melody and the chords because. It's amazing when when you've got a chord being played, one of those notes is in that chord is what you need for what's in the melody right now. So you go from chord to chord and pick the notes and all. And I also can sing a little bit. So I would sit down and sit down and play my guitar and sing along with it. I have played my 12 string acoustic electric guitar at two weddings now. And that's very enjoyable. That's a Fender Fender 12 string that I have. And it was funny. I didn't really picture Fender guitars in the same context as acoustic guitars, but the Fender 12 string is about my favorite guitar now. I just really love that guitar. And so that's how I wound up with 27 guitars and. That's how I wound up with all these radio controlled jet models as well. I don't crash them very often, and usually if I do crash them a little bit, I don't crash them fatally and so I rebuilt them. Well, I'm jumping all over the place here, but that's that's how it goes. What came in that Eagles box? Oh, we did mention the Eagles box. Well, since we had this all astronaut rock band, we get invited to meet musicians. And our drummer is Golly, he's good buddies with Joe Vitali, who was, who was a drummer for Joe Walsh, and he's good buddies with Max Weinberg, who was Bruce Springsteen's drummer. And so he would get us invited to concerts to to hear them when they would come through Houston. So we were at a concert and we got to go backstage and meet Joe Walsh after he and his band played. And the way that that shipping container came about was I had an amplifier that I wasn't really thrilled with that I was playing through. And so I'm talking to the Joe Walsh lead guitar for the Eagles. And I said, Joe, what kind of an amplifier should I buy? I don't really like the one I have. So what would be a good amplifier for me to use? And he looks at me for a second. And he turns to one of the roadies, who I think his name was Kevin. If I'm remembering it right, he says, Kevin, where's that spare Roland amp? And I see what's coming here. He's going to give me that amplifier. And I go, whoa, whoa, whoa, Joe, no, wait. I don't want you to give me one of your amplifiers. I want to know, I can afford it. I I bought this other amplifier, and I just don't like it very much. What? What is an amplifier? And he said you don't need to buy one if I've got one. So he says, Kevin, where's that spare Rowen? And Kevin says, AH, Joe, we've we've packed up the truck already because they were going to Dallas for a show the next night. He said we've packed up the truck, it's probably buried. And Joe says, well go look. And so this poor guy runs out to where they'd packed up the truck and he comes back about 10 minutes later and he said Joe. It's in the truck, but it's all the way in the front of the truck. And so I'm going, OK, we'll look, Joe. No problem. I. And he says, OK, wait a minute. Kevin. When we get to Dallas tonight, you pull that amplifier aside and you send it to him. And I'm going, Ah, Joe, come on. No, now that I know what kind I should buy, I'll just do that. And he says you don't need to buy one. If I've got one. You can have. So I changed the subject. I didn't want him giving me an amplifier. So. I changed the subject and we talked about something else for all. He was a real space nut. So I probably changed the subject to talk about flying on the space shuttle. And then he had to go away to an interview. So he goes away. And we we stayed in their dressing room for a few more minutes, you know, finishing our beer or something like that. And and I'm walking out the door and there's this hand on my shoulder and I stop and it's Kevin, the roadie, and he says. I got to have an address to send that amplifier to. And I said, hey, Kevin, look, you don't need to do that. And he says you don't understand. If Joe tells me to do something, I've got to do it. So you got to give me an address. And he was adamant enough that I reluctantly, it was reluctantly. In hindsight, this was a real thrill because I gave him an address. I went my merry way and didn't think much about it. And about A week later or so, arriving back home from NASA from work for the day and I'm walking through my garage and holy smokes. Here is this big red shipping container with white letters on the side of it that says Eagles. Joe Walsh had sent me a Rowen stereo chorus amplifier, and probably even more valuable than that. A shipping container that says Eagles on it. I'll bet if I showed up at the Hard Rock Cafe and said or put this on eBay and said, hey, what's this worth? I'll bet it would be an impressive number. It's probably worth more than all my guitars put together, but it's a treasure. I'm not going to put it on eBay or get rid of it. And it was a it was a gift from Joe Walsh of the Eagles.