Created with the support of as part of the film series Ukraine on Fire They said that 90% We see it. I love Izyum We are now on which, according to one version, of the Kharkiv region. And behind us stretches Long-suffering because it was originally and the city base of the defense the city of Izyum always fell of the greatest This place is historical; the place is and now, in 2022, it has once again become of the historical vicissitudes It was from that side, from the northeast, that the russians launched and here they tried to encircle the Ukrainian And it was here that the most These thousand-year-old are witnesses In the 1990s, they were brought from and southern Kharkiv region where they were More than namely in the 9th the nomadic tribes that installed such busts and on the graves and on the mass These Babas stood for southern Slobozhanshchyna, they survived the but some of them could not survive Practically all of them you can see traces of debris One of them is By the way, the Minister of Culture of [to the court], because the Convention the destruction of any And the russians destroyed it. Here I immediately when the russians finally and they attached red rags with sickles and &quot;valiant division&quot; - Why did the russians It remains a mystery. There is one of the local versions, that there was mobile It was one of the few places to catch a during the six-month Locals used to climb The russians, for one fearing sabotage groups, or fearing that the Ukrainians or simply having fun, And here, several local And images of mass burials The exhumation that takes place which is visible There, the search for whom the russians hid in And so far, only large mass And how many small burials Apparently, it will be found This is a strategic height. Look at the landscapes, And there have always And during the when the Soviet and German troops I will give only one figure, only 450 thousand Soviet This is more than the that came to the territory of Ukraine. I will say nothing about how many Germans died There, in the 80s, a grandiose to immortalize the The russians build their statehood the first is Orthodoxy. Another thing they build is the cult of the &quot;We fought, our grandfathers fought, [quotes russian] And now the most important The way they honor those who fought for the [which russians call] What was hit here can be assumed that they do But now I will look so that no one It will be possible to Pulls out like from &quot;Zhigulevskoe&quot; beer, light&quot; Krynitsa, russia, pack of cigarettes &quot;Korona rossiyskaya&quot;. I will not dig deeper This pipe is full. I think that pipe Boxes, Jaguars [drinks], energy drinks. russian crap everywhere. This is how they respect the [ancestors who fought in World War II] These are people who The stupid mass which smokes these drinks these Jaguars and then destroys Hello! Do you live anywhere Across the street. Is your house intact There, the wall has Can you live How did you survive all Very hard. The child has Mom, unleash, please. Are you afraid of war, Yes, I'm afraid. Are you still afraid, because the [at the time of shooting] I have to go To school? Was he supposed Yes, in first grade. When the russians were here, Yes, they selected lists and then informed that There is not a single Is that how This is how I So now they are visiting Yes. Are there many children Yes, there are newborns. Those who were born during the Yes. How did the russian Did they have any some of them was normal, They beat us, entered the Did they break They broke into my And they beat Yes. They beat with [explains] A stock of a firearm. Have you heard that children fell Adults only. Only adults were blown up? When the russians a 10-year-old girl her legs were My friend's [daughter]. They were immediately I played with &quot;petals&quot; Did I play with &quot;petals&quot;? For what? I threw it into And what, it exploded? It was interesting. Wow, does your mom No. You know you You could also Did the russian soldiers I was burning those candies. Yes. They are [laughing] Are the candies not or because they were given Yes. They stank. Do you also I skipped school. You're a cool dude. I dreamed that And that it was bombed? You see what terrible putin has stage 3 cancer, he died before This is what his that he died I don't want russia You are already older, did the russians have Were there any There were, for tattoos. I was in prison, I'm covered in tattoos. I should to tell them: When the no one &quot;didn't roll cotton The Livers were We have no houses They lived beneath the We had 40 houses. And there are My house was demolished, and my sister's house Now we do one for two. To overwinter? There is no heating. Nobody knows how we'll We have no houses Is everyone Yes, everyone My two friends Shot? Yes, they were shot. And they took Yes, they were And what is the What is the reason? [They] smoked cannabis. And when exactly were the heaviest In March, they shot When did the No, the russians were They shot the city where The bridge was and the russians fired Now it's good that we If only they were driven away. And so they stand They say that they Were there people in Izyum who There were a lot Are they running Yes, there are none. This terrible thing lying is called the which was based In fact, it is a flamethrower, a heavy flamethrower that It can be seen that the russians And at one point by the road, and Here is it's charge. It is quite ineffective in and it is used when and fortifications, when neither mechanized can't knock out the and such a giant flamethrower It can be seen that the russians for a long time, So they used this Here, on the outskirts of Izyum, like matches And from our assumptions And, most likely, there were which the russians were and used against them which are now lying on both sides of the This is what the center which before the war Today, no more than People, who returned This is the which, one might say, against was easily avoided: broken windows, Of course, it's empty. Not a single bus, Here we see that specialized with Kyiv car number plates They sweep the But houses and housing It is reminiscent [also] it is reminiscent burned out windows, These streets are russian artillery was actively And the russians they don't care about They are This place where young people gather, It was the loudest For us, seeing We have that stage and now you This [destruction] You say: And that's it. This is reality, it is so. There is no point in regretting, I [come] from I moved in with we lived for When all this happened, and Zhenya stayed here. My friend from Kharkov At 6:00 in the morning, her &quot;The war has begun,&quot; and we only fell Mom was in a panic, and a mess started. It was a horror. And what was it like here That actually had scared When you heard the first explosion or We were with a friend, he is a famous athlete, and we were walking Then my aunt &quot;Pack your the war has started.&quot; On the morning Yes. I thought: I go to Telegram Kyiv, Kharkiv, Odesa In general, we thought that because we watched videos and Kharkiv, and here [was] silence. We hoped that it would And then it turned out that there was the in the east. And when did [bombs] Not to lie... First, the plane And the first place he dropped The sounds of explosions It exploded, but But, I remember the March March 2, because you Yes, the evening and night [The plane] flew first bombarding then here. It was very And it also dropped a bomb My house is about 1.5 At my [home], the windows opened, On what date was About 10 [March]. When they shot in the Nothing survived? You can find some jars. And where was your salon? Now let's go upstairs, &quot;DPR, 5th company, We can go this Some toilets Wow, you could shoot Really: &quot;War of the Worlds&quot; There was a children's and there were trampolines, Here the attraction was There was There was a beauti [counts] There were beauty People worked here. Children were Downstairs [there was] a hotel, a bowling [gym] Different people came There was a flow Computers were There were computers here, My office was there. Everything burned Yes, we were looking Here were trampolines. My friend and I We started to I heard something fly and a column of smoke I hit the brakes, A friend was It turned out that a plane While I was turning around, As soon as my friend I did not leave him. And it turned out that the I didn't have time to notice or a bomb directly 200-300 meters. But the feeling... Everything was I did everything automatically Now hi have Yes, the plane is always dreaming Under the rubble was in a house on He was recognized Did many people die here? 50-60 people [died]. You haven't been How are your Where did you go? Are you a student or I am a student. Are you studying No, I'm studying here at And what about It stands broken. Now we are going Will you stay here? I'm leaving In Ternopil. Will you continue studying there? Is it difficult There is no electricity, On February 24, I had I oprnred the and they wrote: &quot;Today we I don't understand. Then I looked at the Kharkiv Khariv was bombed. I did not think that But already they [russian] began We helped in TRO: by transporting What were the f Did [russian] Yes, there Did they bomb? Here, aviation is Do you know this is ours? Will you listen to russian rap? [helicopter sound] This is the only and last across the Siverskyi Donets, because it is clear that and in some places The russians tried to destroy Several times they were removed and from that side. When our [troops] were they blew up and a railway bridge. Then [the bridges] were And when the russians left the And this bridge could not be And this is now the only crossing by which and mopeds to the other side You can see how There are direct hits Such a giant column, and it moved about 3 meters But the slanting beam, which held the supports fell from this side That is, it is a miracle that We are looking Let's [return] here. I hope there are children Yes. [Parents] should We have a lot And we want to give We specifically didn't give but want to [put] it in the We have been We just want to give Where exactly We want to give They are everywhere. They are everywhere, but All the children We understand. It is better to give it to us, and Can you do that? Our grandchildren Shall we give We have been looking for No children were found, Let's go! We are the &quot;Volunteer House&quot; we came from Kyiv and We bring medicines, and 350 [aid] kits have There are many people. We drove up to one house, and already Because everyone Most of us are Our boys are We have girls. They are also At first, we were engaged Then, when the Kyiv region we started going Then they started going Hot food was distributed to In Kyiv, we provided food to those And later we As soon as the We really wanted to go We were in Visokopil. On September 11, the first and we arrived here But now it's easier, because And we show it. And when we show it, people immediately understand For example, sweets because we work And [they offered] to take Yes, we are given If before we asked: &quot;Give us bread, please, And now we show and next time we want I already understand that they [quotes volunteers] I'll tell you this: the Izyum Here you can see that But there are where several houses and half the village And another one village We recorded the interview And it is difficult for You just start asking about and they immediately have They shot here, but there but there was no We communicate and for some reason there was no Yes. And in the Kyiv They [the russians] specifically so that people [quotes a russian] &quot;We are going to Kyiv, poor children. I also thought about the fact The further west they advance, Perhaps. And here they [perceive people] [cited by russians] &quot;The eastern part Moreover: there are more here are Ukrainian-speaking We communicate and And in the Kyiv region - Therefore, I think that When a person communicates it is easier for [russians] And [in Kyiv Oblast] [quotes the russian] Don't push yourself. Don't push yourself. Get in line. I ask everyone We won't give sweets to anyone Because you will Back. I ask everyone Make a corridor. Don't push. Stooop. What you are doing? We just give for Dear people, please... Woman, please Please step back. [swearwords] [laughs] We had sweets left, which we decided to share By the way, the children And we have nothing. We found people We decided to It's horrible, people for a piece of cookie. That was the first time. But I understand them. When you look at a house - The entrance is Difficult situation. No other way. We simply understand that There is a war I can't just sit and work I am a designer. The war in It is necessary to do something I don't want people here to think that we We want to show that Ukraine is There was a conditional And we want to remind people that because people [quotes]: And how long does it take They think that there [in Kyiv] and here you can rot. That's why we want &quot;We haven't forgotten It doesn't matter whether We will come either way, whether People need this help. We are one country, And we must not forget Genocide of Ukrainians so this war is about About the nation. If we give up, We will be under the flag It's scary that the city So that this does Yes, it's scary. And if you know what How Bucha and that it is possible to Among the youth, we have And everyone's mood is: &quot;It would be faster to win. Crimea and Donbas - [People want] it all to be over Give the russians and rebuild. Among older people, the mood is... [says in their words]: it is necessary to adapt; do not resist; do not fight; why listen to me, because This is the saddest thing. You understand what you can say They have been and they are afraid. They are afraid to start &quot;Ah, suddenly, one more time We guide them that we will definitely be able People who left Izyum, for them have because they will That is, not those who have they don't want And now there is hope A tunnel from Izyum through this It is very symbolic. It is carved out The tunnel is symbolic of the fact this area was greatly damaged who burned Already after the war German prisoners dug this connecting the route from Here the rocks are more in which [tunnels] were dug And, in my opinion, this is And I wish that in the that russian russian invaders, who bring with their own hands, dig tunnels for with their bare hands and dismantle rubble. So that they see what crimes And for them to atone and