- You're going to learn from interrupting you A while back I made a related video, with Vanessa Van Edwards, on non-verbal techniques from interrupting you, Since then, I've received that some people don't pick So in today's video, we're of those questions and look directly at verbal strategies that are If you wanna see that original I will put link to that in the I wanna give you one point of The goal of this video how to put another person in Virtually every video I at your best, for your I don't teach techniques about that approach causes more The bottom line philosophy is this, the better you get at your the fewer problems you'll in most conversations. These tips are for If you're having a then you'll have to you can for yourself, because I don't make videos Let's talk about some dos and some don'ts, and the first tip is a do, This means expressing your with a calm and composed attitude. So here are some sample statements. Let's assume that you're already talking and somebody else is signaling that they want to talk before or they're actively by talking over you. Don't stop talking. Just transition right into This is level one. These statements will go from &quot;I'm almost finished.&quot; &quot;Sorry, I'm not done yet.&quot; &quot;Just a second. Let me finish.&quot; And if you've already said then you can follow up with a statement that's a &quot;Please, I'm asking you to let me finish.&quot; You can put these in your own words, just make sure you're we'll be talking about in the video. I've heard some people add &quot;Let me finish so I don't And if that fits your style, adding a detail like that is nice because it explains why you The second do is using the right tone of voice and projecting If you say these with a as I've just done my best be communicating professionally, that you're not done talking yet. In contrast, you don't want to If those sample statements to you, were going to be practicing them again in a moment to help you get more comfortable The third do is use I-Language. Part of the reason those and not aggressive, is framing these statements with the word I or me, rather than saying, you, you, you. So let's practice them again and notice the eye language. I also recommend holding up your finger or hand about this high. That subtle nonverbal cue So say these along with me. &quot;I'm almost finished.&quot; &quot;Sorry, I'm not done yet.&quot; &quot;Just a second. Let me finish my point.&quot; &quot;Let me finish so I don't And if you've already said one then you can increase the and say, &quot;Please, I'm asking If you struggle communicating assertively, practice these aloud, until they come out naturally, with very little emotional intensity. Now, here's some don'ts Don't use passive-aggressive, like rolling your eyes, in the air, smirking, or that show you're offended in some way. These will not stop the and you're very likely in the conversation. The key is to speak as non as you can, and that's and direct statements and increase the chances that you will be successful Here's another, don't. Don't use You-Language. That's the opposite of that we mentioned. Don't say things like &quot;Would you stop interrupting me?&quot; &quot;Would you mind not interrupting &quot;Do you plan to keep &quot;You are being very rude.&quot; These statements point the and try to put the other person in their place or dominate them, and that's not likely to work out for you, and it's not what this video is about. We're here to learn how from interrupting you. You-Language will escalate the situation and hurt the relationship. If you have a very direct tone, you'll come across as aggressive, and of course another don't, is using passive-aggressive Passive-aggressive sounds like this. &quot;Excuse me, I'm speaking. I'm speaking.&quot; Anytime you hear people using sing-songy, condescending themselves like that, it sounds and you could probably get once or twice if you have the right tone, but in general, that I just demonstrated, and another form of unhealthy bad blood between you and the It will also make you look unprofessional and high-maintenance to be watching. Passive-aggressive communicators realize that they're and they usually have very low credibility in the eyes of others. Now, let's go on to level two. Here's another do. Give the other person So if you've tried the statements about, a few conversations in a row, and the person continues to interrupt you, then it's time to give them feedback. You're gonna have this one-on-one, and as Prepare your concise talking and practice them aloud, until you feel both composed and natural. If you're still hotheaded you might say something you regret. So let's assume you set up who keeps interrupting, knock on the door and say hello, and you're invited in to Here's some starter sentences &quot;I wanted to give you some &quot;I'm not sure if you're aware of this, but you have been interrupting &quot;I'm sure you did not &quot;I just wanted to bring That's four concise sentences. You could say that in about 15 seconds, and it's 80% eye language, and then you politely stop for the other person absorb it, and respond. Now at this point in the conversation, you have done everything You've communicated your feedback, you've assumed no ill and remember what I said earlier, your goal is not to you are responsible for yourself. They are responsible for themselves. It's now up to them to You cannot force them. It's important not to as a competition or a chess game. So let's talk about how they might react. Once you say your part, they may have one of three First, they may say, thank They might apologize and say Maybe they just needed your reminder. Second, they may ask and want to talk about it more. Assume they are genuinely curious about when they've done this of brief examples or a third they may want to debate they may come across as defensive, but here's the secret to the whole thing. It doesn't really matter how they react because you've given your feedback. So there's no need to debate them, and if they try to argue, don't Just listen and respectfully remind them, that you only wanted to and it's up to them to do But I'm willing to bet even if they try to the other person will very to interrupt you as So they could be upset, or defensive, you just stay composed, stay calm, because you've already done your part. Now it's up to them to and hopefully make a change. Now if they change, wonderful. However, if you head into a and they keep interrupting to the fundamentals we &quot;I'm almost finished.&quot; &quot;Sorry, I'm not done yet.&quot; &quot;Just a second. Let me finish my point.&quot; And don't let any frustration show. Just be at your best, and when they hear you say of your conversation about make a big difference. I know you could be watching this, and feel like giving could be intimidating, or perhaps it won't make a positive difference, well, I wanna share with you my experience I had a few years ago. I was regularly in meetings with a person who was above This person would interrupt in every single meeting. They didn't like me, and disagreed with me on When I spoke, I got the feeling that they were interrupting me of view, or me, into the discussion. So here's what I did. First, I followed the process in this video. Level one, I signaled that I wasn't quite finished, so that didn't work with this person. Level two, I requested a and I delivered my feedback almost exactly the way that you just learned. It took me about 15 seconds Now, here's the good news. Even though this relationship I wanna give that person a lot of credit, because they took my feedback really well, all things considered, they realize they were interrupting me, and they signaled that they of person who routinely cut and they made huge improvements, reducing their future interruptions by about 90%, just to a normal Now, this didn't turn the but at least I never had to Now keep in mind, some and overlapping talk, is totally normal. We are only human, nobody's perfect, and we should all be willing without getting too annoyed by it, and lots of people of that other video I mentioned, that they had a bad habit of interrupting. If you wanna reduce I recommend watching any of the videos that I've posted on listening skills. Better listening skills for your own interrupting habits. I'll put links to those the interview with Vanessa I'll put it all in the some other resources, about the five essential that every professional should have. I look forward to reading your comments, so feel free to put your own Till next time, God bless