- All right you guys. You finally made it. This is the final talk of the day. And of course we saved the best for last. And this is basically Chris Rock. He's been here for quite a while. The third time I've seen and he's been my personal 'cause the topics, and then over the most interesting ones and hope you enjoy it, like I will. So please give a big hand to Chris - [Audience] (applause), (cheer) - and you guys are in for - Thanks for coming to my You hear me all right? Yep. Awesome. So for those who don't know me, I've been a cyber mercenary for 30 years, and I'm also the CISO and I was at DEFCON 23, where I This was a talk on vulnerabilities And I was also at DEFCON 24 on How to Overthrow a So the reason I'm doing I grew up with terrorists We had the IRA, Hizballah we had Al-Qaeda, ISIS, Jemiah Zamir, but it seems to have gone quiet. So where are all the good terrorists gone? Let's have a look at the numbers. Death from terrorism down North Africa, in the last three years, and terrorist attacks in the So something's going on. The national intelligence as just a footnote. So we're gonna have to give these guys a bit of a helping hand give them a bit of a hand because if it's not considered a risk, we're not gonna get a budget Just to give you some reference, in 2016, they were number So they've had a bit of a downfall. So we need to give them a bit of a hand. In the good old days, you could just walk into a house of worship And if your guy didn't have you could do it yourself remotely, but you can't do that Jammers are being installed in churches, synagogues and mosques, not so much for the terrorist aspect, but to keep the audience from I originally got this idea from the talk when Julian Assange was and they were using jammers to stop him communicating. So I reached out to &quot;What's the problem?&quot; And they said, &quot;We've tried everything, And that was a bit of a challenge for me. How do jammers work and The thieves are using jammers to security monitoring stations. So for those who know jammers, there's a wide variety There's jammers to There's the humvee's on There's also jammers to as well, whether it be drones, the spying, and using jammers as well from using mobile phones. So here we have an being protected by using from blowing up the humvee and also the Thales Eclipse being to stop that jammer being So I'll give you just a It's a complex topic, but So we have what's called a spot frequency where if you know the like a mobile phone, you can to that mobile phone That's called spot. We have sweep, where across a wide range of garage door openers, baby stuff like that. Or we have something called power across all signals, all at once. Jammers are actually pretty smart and they've evolved over the last 10 years where they actually where they'll actually look for a signal, record the signal, and So if there's something that the jammer has never seen before, and play back, for even pre detonation. Here's an example of a jammer being used. We've got the hurt trying to disable the IED, and we've got the terrorist on the balcony of glink, trying to and he's got no protection. But on the right hand side, we have again, the hurt locker with a from a detonation of that IED. Some of the big manufacturers of jammers. You guys will know these names a 2 billion dollar industry. Here's an example of a personnel jammer that the military will use, and you'll notice the high, medium, and low. We'll And you can see the specs beside it. Jammers need a lot of power. So you'll actually see and stuff like that. The commercial sector's exactly the same. You'll actually get spec they protect and also run time Here's an example of a personal convoy, VIP jammer to protecting VIPs. And you can see the specs within there. I'll just expand on You can see the channel between 20 and 60 megahertz. That gives you 40 megahertz. Now if each receiver on down to 10 kilohertz, that this jammer must protect against just within that channel one frequency. So we're talking about You're looking at 20 kilowatts of power just for that channel one. So that's why jammers will whether it be spot, sweep You guys would've seen It's a pretty much radio frequency diagram all the way up from VLF to EHF. In the middle there, you'll every day, for radio, short wave radio, and stuff like that. And you'll see the jammer that frequency. You notice I haven't covered I'll get into those a little bit later on. So jammers effectively 20 megahertz and 6,500 megahertz. There is some specialist to one megahertz, such as but that's huge scale jam They're not mobile like we So I was interested in Here's an example of a IED, Obviously we're not gonna go and we're gonna focus but just so you know what We have a container which That can be anything. It can be a steel box. It can be a cow, a dead cow on the side Obviously the shrapnel, the and essentially the explosives down below. I'm only gonna focus and you can see there, there's some military ordinance there. It makes a good IED some of those parts already, whether it be the container, the shrapnel and the main charge, so all we need to do is add power and a switch. So let's have a look at the We're not gonna go into all You can have a look at but I was going from the bottom up. We have victim operated. This similar to what the uni bomber used, where the victim opens And we have a timer which, from a kitchen timer that can or it can be something as complex as a number 10 delay pencil, which they used in World War II, which was essentially a with a glass of vial inside that when you crush the copper section, the vial would break and cupric chloride would then melt a striker and And the one we're looking the remote control component. So looking at the command, obviously we have things like trip wires and stuff like that. Now we're not looking at that today. We're looking at the So in the red box there, you'll see things like garage door openers, baby Something that can be triggered remotely. Now, the beauty of these technologies is when you're using things like mobile phone or cordless phones, digital phones, is they're being designed So if they're being jammed, they'll actually switch frequencies. So jammers need to look at that and then move frequencies to support that. So I'm a bit of a practical guy. I'm happy to do the theory, but I like to look at So I've actually built the with a garage door opener, but instead of having an initiator to kick the explosive off, I've That seemed a little bit safer. So you can see there's no container there. There's the power source, the initiator, which is and the remote control garage door, which is the switch component. I've done the same with a mobile phone. In this case, I haven't used a light. I've used a piece of nichrome wire, which is to act as an initiator. And I dunno if you can see that So now that's the switch component, and then I'll show you how So let's test our IEDs out in the field, first with a garage door opener, and then with a mobile phone. (explosive rock music) - [Automated Voice] Terrorists win. - [Audience] (applause) - So that was shot with a Phantom camera that does 1,000 frames per So let's look at the counter measures. Let's look at the jammer. How does the jammer Again, here's our garage at what a jammer does. So it completely kills the signal. Again, let's have a with a mobile phone. So you can see the This is just a portable jammer, but very effective in blocking Now the jammer will either or the receiving device. Next we'll have a look at This case, I've used a just because the ranges that we had to do. So this is based on a (explosive rock music) - [Automated Voice] Terrorist wins. - So that jammer essentially It's essentially a ten to one mute ratio. So now that we know how jammers work, where are the holes in the technology? So we can see the jammer will We talked about it before, but what about these other frequencies? VLF all the way down to ELF. You can see the wavelength size. I think that might be the are not configured to work Taking a closer look at these, the frequencies or wavelengths, you can see that they're VLF, ULF, and ELF. And you can actually see from a military point of view is also a way of communicating So these wavelengths actually In the sixties there was project Elf, where they And you can see the sizing there, 6,000 miles of buried cable to actually transmit. So you can see now why the not configured below 20, just 'cause of the size Just to give you a Here's a cross section of On the top Z, that's our ionosphere, that's 40 kilometers On the Y axis the lowest and you can see the VLF or going around the Earths surface. So it's great for Okay. ULF lower than VLF, range from 300 Hertz to three kilohertz, wave length 1,000 to 100 and the two kilohertz, during this talk, the wave and you can see by the antenna we're looking at a 75 kilometer antenna. Now having an IED with a is pretty obvious. The signal light travels I need to explain something far field. Some of you will but I need to cover this in depth so you can see what I'll use the duck in the water example. So picture a dead duck When you chuck the duck in the water, it will bounce left Away from that duck, form away from that target. Where the ducks moving left we call that near field. Where it has those nice we call that far field. When we're talking about far field, we're talking about all the on a daily basis, mobile baby monitors, everything. but it's the near field part you guys on what this tech that I'm using. So here's a more technical of near versus far. In this case, instead of the we have the wavelength reactive, I'll get into that a little bit later. moves into frotional Another technical view we have period, that's our near field range and you can see something called an E field, electrical field, and also H field, magnetic field, essentially the antenna's It's 90 degrees out from phase, and as it moves into far field, which is essentially two The reason I wanted to show is something that we're looking We're not interested in the E field. It's the magnetic field we're after, before it reaches far field. Again, another diagram there. The point that I wanted to is just where you can see for far field and one to two And that reactive zone is actually, it transmits power. So we can actually transmit And this is the far field. This is what we use pretty much every day with wireless comms. You can see we've got the electrical field and the magnetic field perpendicular to each This is like the waves from the ducks. It's just a clear communication path. And we use near field every day. You guys use it for payment running at 13.56 Megahertz You'll notice the antenna is a coil, and that coil is used that we were talking about not the E field. Now all our lives in near field, great for secure And that's true. It's got a great range from but what happens if we change that? What happens if we use two kilohertz? Our near field range is 75 kilometers. Now I can work with 75 kilometers. That gives me a communication as long as I can get to communicate at that range. So how do we create a wavelength without the massive antenna? Something called Earth mode. We're essentially using So NATO defines Earth mode I've gotta make sure that you guys know which one is which. The first one is, up and over. A large antenna is inserted that large wavelength or ULF will move up across and then down. That's not what we're using today. We have our Deep Strata Mining comms. The one that actually This is used in the mining industry. Up to eight kilometer loops and uses a magnetic field to You guys may not be aware that you can't use radios underground. So there's ways of getting around that using magnetic fields. It can also be used for blasting as well. So if you've got a blast caps underground, you can actually send from above the ground to blow it up. You can also communicate to or used for asset tracking that are under the ground. And the third one is the one It's an adaption of something called Conduction Current Mode, where two electrodes are with a voltage applied to both electrodes and a magnetic field is to a receiving target. Now that can be either another two probes at the other end. I'm not interested in that. That was used by Morse and between bunkers. The one magnetic field loop antenna. So before we create some hardware, we're gonna have to do some the best frequency, between electrodes and what's So I used three different One's called ANSYS, one's You can see the block the simulation. Nine by the two kilometers deep. And we used electrodes that one meter into the ground. And they started off as 10 This will give you an actually looks like. you can actually now visualize not just travels along it travels in the Earth itself. Again, radio frequencies but at least low spectrum, it does. So the first three frequence nine kilohertz, and 0.1 kilohertz. And that shows you the bit So 10 meter electrode separation, We're using no modulation, no pre amps. This is just basic, which frequency can in distance for signaling. And the 0.1, as you a kilometer in length. Here's a spreadsheet, more details in my paper We can effectively get using a thousand meter 3,600 Watts of power, and At nine kilohertz you can see, We can get up to 2,800 Again, this is with no modulation. This is with no impedance matching. We'll get into that a little bit later. And finally, 0.1 megahertz. You can see there, we're getting ranges of up And that was the simulation Now, why don't we just use 0.1 megahertz? It obviously goes really far. The problem we have is that all the other nonsense in the world. So we're dealing with natural being lightning I couldn't even believe this figure, 8 million strikes per day hit the Earth. And like I showed you that's goes around to Earth, exactly the same thing and we're talking like a billion volts. So the signal goes pretty far. Manmade noise, we're talking about things like utilities, transformers, stuff that is a side effect So instead of using 0.1, the best range was one to four kilohertz. In this slide, you can have a look at what it looks like between Obviously the more power you So you can see one kilometer at 20 Watts, whereas we got 2.5 kilometers Also TX electrode separation, we've got one at 10 meters and one at 100. So we're starting to see a pattern here. Something I'll get into but it's something called Normal means an antenna is That is that loop antenna Tangential is when that that loop is actually vertical, 90 degrees from the Earth's surface. Now, why don't we use tangential? I'll get into that little bit later. We obviously get more distance, but we absolutely have some especially with an IED. You don't want that standing but there's other reasons as well. We did some E-Field tests as well. You may remember from the And actually there's a where we've got the E Field and also the H Field. This is done previously through history, as I said, Morse, and during World War I. The range was not as good. Another thing we had to take our hardware was impedance matching. Impedance matching means matching the soil to what you are using the device in. By matching the impedance on the receiver and the transmitter, we from the hardware device and So we can see, we got 1.5 with matched impedance, but we only got 0.7 with non matched. In the hardware we some impedance matching. Another thing to take into frequencies which have a lot of noise is modulation techniques. The best one to use through ANC, adapted noise cancellation. MLD, maximum likelihood detection, and DAFB, decision aided feedback. We could double our distance by using the right modulation techniques. In the paper that I've written, which is on the DEFCON media server, I've actually got schematics so you can try them out. We talked before about using We can actually transmit at 3,600 Watts, we can actually move at about 50 meters. It's not a huge range, but we can actually move And you might think, &quot;Well, Well, it can be used in We can actually run this across a farm and have sensors I talked before about antenna placement, where than normal. The beauty of normal is if you're lying it flat on the ground, it's immune from jammers. With tangential, in the unlikely scenario that someone's running a jammer, we're talking thousands of against the one to four kilohertz range, what we need to do is use two antennas at right angles to each other. And sometimes we would need a whip antenna to confuse the jammer. And just using the simulation software. we can actually say that by the right separation, and upping the power, we can actually get big That's 4,200 meters, Okay that's enough of Let's go to the hardware. This was my prototype So on the left, we have the transmitter, which has got a signal generation And on the right hand side, I'll get deeper into that, a as well as de logging and battery and analog. A lot of this can be replaced where we can use pure synthesis. So here's our transmitter where we've replaced a lot of those parts with smaller parts obviously. it's always best to build big, make it easier on yourself when you know it actually bloody works. So in this case, we're to do the encryption and processing. And here's the RX component. We shrunk that down quite considerably, again using a Arduino. You can see on the ground I'll give you a close up on so you can actually but you can actually transmitter and receiver And on the one on the left, there's the electrodes. In the real world, in a IED setting, you're not gonna use electrodes. You're gonna use things that picket fences, stuff like that. And on the right, we have our antenna, which I'll expand that out. So that's a one meter diameter that's rounded. That is our Here are the field tests TX electrodes, 50 meters apart. We only used 20 Watts of power nowhere and we got to and that was with basic ASK modulation. Something interesting that did and when on closer analysis, that's going across from east to west, that was actually some So you'll notice the magnetic field actually And the beauty of that longer distances by using something called utilities, assisted mode. And there's actually some you can actually look where underground pipes in the with even basic equipment So in other words, if you're you'll get further distances. Everything I built is home including the schematics. And again, they're all on the media server. So in summary, this is what we've built. We've got a commercial the ground at varying distance. We've got a large scale jammer and we've got our loop So let's have a look at it in effect. (explosive rock music) - [Automated Voice] Terrorists win. - [Audience] (applause) - Besides the ID component, we have other use cases Again, agriculture, about communicating with Again, you don't need power. You can actually communicate Also another use case is spying. We're running at one to two kilohertz. The jammer, like I said, is not listening at 20 to 65 megahertz. And you need large antennas to pick these sort of signals up. Also in a war setting as well. So just to summarize, the device will communicate It operates at 1 to 4 kilohertz, conductive current magnetic not far field. Jammers work in far field. Configurable from 20 Watts to 3,600 Watts and scale up to 20 kilowatt. Obviously the more the more difficult hardware is to manage at the transmitter end. impedance matching for whether it be dry, sand or modulation options, and And that's the end of the talk. If you want any further you can have a look at the Thank you very much. Thank you. - [Audience] (applause) - Thank you.