This area in the middle of nowhere Where the hell am I? is worth over a trillion dollars. and it might just be the most important plot of land in America right now. The McDermitt Caldera A 28 by 22 mile wide area that spans northern Nevada and southern Oregon. This is in Humboldt County, the northern most Quiet rural area with one major city. And it is about to look very different in the next You see, something right here at Thacker Pass. That's going to affect the american economy, I mean, the list and there is plenty of I am in the Welcome to Winnemucca. This is Winnemucca, Nevada. it's just a friendly, welcoming community, it's home. The city became a central shipping point to mines of the Transcontinental in 1869. Silver ore and gold were discovered through the 19th boosting the town's I believe largest producer of gold in the world. Gold is huge here. There are mines nearby that have been operating Winnemucca and mining town. Most people in town They end up moving out here or with their family and it's almost always work in the mines. And now a new discovery will change this place. You know, we won't on the road Just north of Winnemucca is the McDermitt Caldera considered the origin point of the Yellowstone hotspot. Hotspots are caused by hot materials rising from near The hot materials heat up a magma chamber. And eventually, that pressure has to go somewhere. Eruption Lava spews out everything in its path. Somewhere million years ago. That now empty lava chamber eventually collapsed in on itself and created a caldera. The combination rainwater and groundwater a lake bed in the caldera. At some point it would erupt again but didn't, and those rising temperatures pushed up fluid that created Over time, to the bottom of the lake, and over more time, evaporated and left a thick And this clay might as well just be a big pile because in this clay is white gold and a white gold rush is coming for Winnemucca. it's not the first gold rush that's come to Winnemucca. Okay. I'm heading about 60 miles north of Winnemucca right now to an area the epicenter of lithium mining, not just in the McDermitt Caldera, but in all of America and kind of the world. So let's go see plot of land in America looks like. It's about 15 miles I lost cell service, like, about 15 miles ago, So we are off the grid, Okay. I think we made it. You see, Thacker Pass has a very specific type of clay called illite clay. Different than the smectite clay that is more commonly found throughout the caldera that illite clay has an incredibly high concentration of lithium in it, more than double what's found in the smectite clay. The area was known gold, uranium But the behemoth And that makes Thacker pass plots of land in America There's an estimated $3.9 worth of lithium back there 2 million tons more lithium than the current largest mine In Bolivia. And the entire Mcdermitt Caldera is estimated to hold $1.5 trillion dollars of lithium, making it the largest reserve in the world. But it's currently untapped. Right now, about 90% of the world's lithium is mined in Bolivia, and Australia. And the U.S. currently imports its lithium from those countries. China dominates the processing of lithium and we are playing catch up. Just look for the mine at Thacker Pass, how quickly Maine has a large amount of lithium in hard rock, but the state has very strict laws around mining. North Carolina in hard rock, but mining there would require moving people and all kinds But companies There is a mine in Silver Peak Nevada brine and processes it using evaporation ponds, a process that takes time So it can't be done anywhere of what could And humanity is definitely going Let me show you. Humanity has lived the Bronze Age, the Iron Age. And now we are of the lithium age. The International Energy that the demand for lithium could rise 40 times by 2040. Lithium in the batteries Laptops, tablets, vapes, power tools, toothbrushes. Basically, and especially EVs of renewable energy. and the global population from fossil fuels like solar, wind and hydropower, the energy harvested somewhere. More lithium ion batteries. Okay, I see some no trespassing signs. Now, a lot of companies for approval to mine here, company has it, which, by the way, just split into two, a North American entity and a South American entity. And a lot of people think to distance themselves American entity Ganfeng Lithium, the company has the rights acres of land here, on the 30 month construction project in March. But it's estimated that mining here at Thacker Pass won't start until 2026. The company plans for over 40 years, the first 20 of which from above the water table to not affect the supplies in the surrounding areas. with plans to mine Yeah, I'm General Motors has invested $650 million into lithium Americas to get exclusive rights to the lithium mined for the first ten years with an option to extend another five years. and Lithium Americas is pushing for approval all throughout seems like a win win. Right? But it's much If you look into this story, you'll find that are protesting the mine, the Paiute Thacker Pass sacred, A site where their ancestors were massacred on two separate occasions. One being by the U.S. Cavalry in 1865. And they have appealed at multiple points even bringing it all the way to the Ninth where ultimately it was approved. The mine at Thacker Pass is the first of its kind. It is the only clay based lithium mine in the world. Processing of clay based lithium is unproven or at least untested Currently, lithium comes from brines Lithium Americas. The company itself has said the project will be respect to lithium extraction carbonate production As such, technical challenges The technology utilized in this project is not new to mineral, metallurgical and chemical processing. However, it is Hmm. The mine also highlights for green energy products, Environmentalists that all mines pollute in one way or another. And many worry local wildlife and vegetation golden eagles, sage grouse and a species of snail that could already end up on the endangered species mining, lithium also uses in a region already affected by droughts, the localities there's going to be change. Okay. you want to try so you don't lose Construction of the mine center will require about 2000 workers. 25% of the city's population. It'll be a big boom for our economy, but it'll also be water demands The man camp is located within the city limits. Lithium Americas has plans to build the lodge where the workers will live. And those workers to local businesses there will be quote unquote, big city problems that they haven't But then comes the operation of the mine. So we're anticipating 2 to 3000 new residents to our community like every place else in America, We have contractors here And most of them a year on the ground. that's one of my biggest concerns is housing. Where are they going to live. The Department of Energy a $2 billion loan called Redwood Materials Inc in Nevada. And our government of Nevada, Reno, giving it more opportunity for funding and resources. The goal is to create a self-sustaining where the mineral is mined, and recycled, We have all the interests that make up a car battery. We have the Tesla Gigafactory Redwood Materials recycling. It's developing, it's happening. Discussions like we had today help close the loop. But, you know, is we need housing, we need training, we need sewer plants, we need schools, things So that's part of the loop And all of that puts the state front and center quest We may have What and what does that mean? That means I'd hate for us to grow to the point where we're like a major city like Reno. I like a small town. This region is well suited to be able to handle this But Thacker Pass is just the beginning. And lithium is only one piece of the puzzle. We're going to need Thacker Passes nickel and graphite. If we want to compete on a global scale.