Can I be honest? Not because you are recording. I like to tell everybody There is a very small difference Sometimes it's the need that drives you In my life, I have always tried to learn. A senior cricketer once told me &quot;Kapil, if you want to be successful in life keep your eyes and ears open Success will happen. But how do you learn? Your friends, your life and your situations can teach you better with every passing day if you have the willingness to learn. But if you think you know everything... - Good luck. I think one of the greatest is on that afternoon in June, there was no camera. Because I would have gone and seen Your innings of 175 runs. I would have gone back What do you think about that? I think... I don't think that way. - Yeah. I mean... God gives it to you So that was my day. He said, &quot;Go and have fun&quot;. &quot;Go on...&quot; But you were upset while going in to bat. I was upset with myself. I think more than that, I was just... I would say nervous. - Yeah. you have more responsibilities on shoulder. You were called for it I didn't know what happened. I think that's the best part. - Yeah. - ...and enjoying it. And then somebody knocked the door I always say &quot;I don't remember if I had taken out the soap.&quot; I always say but you don't remember day-to-day things. Sunny (Sunil Gavaskar) had told me those 175 runs by Kapil changed the game. I told him &quot;changed the game&quot; He said &quot;No! It didn't change that match. It changed the game of cricket&quot;. It's a good compliment. Isn't it? Yeah. If somebody of that caliber you always feel proud. In my mind, that India produced. Number one. Vinoo Mankad might have played before him. But I think Sunil Gavaskar because for him just playing cricket He wouldn't go to night clubs. &quot;I won't sit in a place because it may affect my eyesight.&quot; So when a cricketer says such things, he is at a different level. When I was young the thing that I hated the most was the hot potato of captaincy. Now, it's almost 25 years I'm not bothered about anything. I can easily say that the cricket board Sometimes he is the captain, Even though, in 1983, they made me the captain. It's unfair when you have always dreamt They should have appointed Mr. Gavaskar because he was mature, sensible But the board wanted a youngster And in 1985, when they removed me - that it's the wrong time to do it. At that point, I had matured I was getting better at the game. But they removed me. They appointed Mr. Gavaskar They played with us. They had made a mess. Board members used to play well. And you were such a young captain. I was lucky. I got support from my seniors. Yeah. Who else was younger There was Ravi Shastri, Cheeka (Krishnamachari Srikkanth) ...and Sunil Valson. I had... Like Sunil Gavaskar... He debuted in 1971. - Yeah. So eight years senior is like... - Yeah. Firstly, I didn't have and make a point. and sometimes, on the field, you have to give respect to the seniors. I remember a small incident. It happened when I was the captain. We were playing at Barbados. Firstly, I bowled After the fast bowlers I brought in Ravi Shastri By then, almost 30 overs were done. 25 or 30. And from the slips, Venkat came towards me and said &quot;Kapil&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, Venkat&quot;. He asked, &quot;Did I say I don't want to bowl?&quot; So there were such characters. I said, &quot;No, Venky. But when you are so young You get scared, right? More than fear, it is that in your eyes and thoughts you respect your senior cricketers so much you can't say anything to them What were your qualities - In Haryana... When did you realize your goal that... I never had any goal. - My goal was just to play. And... I would play anytime be it day or night. If I got a chance to play, I'd play. I used to play marbles too. I started playing cricket because I didn't like to study. And left playing football because a football match and then I would have to return to class. So those type of stories. Do you remember the breakthrough I think it became serious from my school batch. All of them got selected, except me. I would say that was a turning point or that God was on my side at that time. They didn't pick me one or two new balls everyday - Yeah. they gave me the new ball because And, by the time they were back, I would have sent almost three or four boys to the hospital, the ones I was so angry... - &quot;Left me and went.&quot; Don't you feel it as a kid? &quot;You went &quot;Why didn't you take me?&quot; - &quot;Now face the bouncer.&quot; And within one year not even one year, less that that... The senior state team had to be picked to play Hot Weather Cricket Tournament So the senior team selected me I mean seven to eight Ranji Trophy So that was the turning point, I would say. Which means, the journey fast bowler one of the greatest in the world... Happened almost by a selection mistake I don't know... - Amazing. And... Somebody like you came to me I couldn't refuse but I was shy. So he asked, &quot;Who is Kapil Dev?&quot; And I said, &quot;Me&quot;. He was speaking to me in English. Imagine my plight. I said, &quot;Oh&quot;. and was talking in English. I said, &quot;Give me five minutes&quot; I can't explain, in the ten years of IPL... You know, controlling Is difficult. In the presence of two people he'd be quiet. And when we speak about you I think the only transformation is in Navjot Singh Sidhu. I mean... Sure, he was a very bright kid. We used to stay at his place And poetry and Navjot Singh Sidhu... I mean the whole day and read books. He was so much involved. And till he played cricket also... For the first few years, I don't think &quot;Good afternoon&quot;, &quot;Good morning&quot; or and that's it. And I thought he was very shy. But when he started talking I can't imagine till today. Sir, what happened is that all the words that are now coming out at once. That dam was brimming. So when the flood gates were opened at once everyone drowned in it. The flood hasn't subsided yet. But, Gaurav, do you know - Storytellers. Those who can narrate a story well along with interesting anecdotes I think they are the best people. Who were your best buddies in the team? With whom did you hang out Even in those days, people from north - It is going to remain throughout. - Firstly, the comfort of same language. I mean I love Roger Binny. He is my best friend till date. But he couldn't speak a word of Hindi So despite being good friends you still want some time to chat. Have you watched that movie - Yes. Where both don't understand I'm not saying yours is a romantic story. No, I used to love Roger Binny a lot. In my 35 years of knowing him I have never seen him get angry. - Yeah. So, he is such a lovable character. It used to be fun with him. Now we're friends - Yeah. I think you met Sachin (Tendulkar) There was something... You saw - You called him or... No, I didn't. I finished my practice. Mr. Raj came to me and said, &quot;He is young. He will be very happy if you bowl to him.&quot; I said, &quot;Mr. Raj, I'm tired. He said, &quot;He is young and is just 15 years. Bowl just two or three balls I had my shoes on and was at the nets, I bowled a few balls and felt he can play. Suddenly I thought of testing him and increased the speed then... I thought... &quot;Who is he?&quot; He is a kid but the shot was good. But, honestly, I didn't think he would play a lot of cricket and be the God of cricket. - Yeah. - ...far better than what he performed. - He still had more talent. Obviously there were less cameras and there were no stump mics so a lot of on-field conversations We used to speak. I think, Viv Richards? Yeah, Viv was definitely outstanding. I think it's not his batting. - His attitude, you know, that... No, he used to look into the bowler's eyes. Back in our times, we were taught never to look into a bowler's eyes. Just lower your head and play the shot. But he was one batsman who, after hitting, - He never needed any words. Several times. West Indian fast bowlers If they were angry, That this time... And... Whenever we faced West Indian players there was a sense of fear if there is one fast bowler, But when you have terrific pacers Didn't you ever feel like telling them &quot;Get a slow bowler or a spinner. What is this? How can you treat It used to be good. ...the batsmen who were batting If you try to loot runs in an over...&quot; We'd make 15 to 20 runs in two overs, &quot;So respect the bowler, appreciate him and hit boundaries once in a while.&quot; So that used to be the situation. It was like that. I remember. &quot;Do not score more runs in his over. &quot;Hit a boundary and don't score runs Even if it goes off stump... Act a bit and say... - &quot;Well bowled.&quot; Provided the captain Cricket was such fun. - Yeah. With Pakistan, it used to be difficult Even if someone used abusive words, It would offend more. then it hurts deeply. Such as... If you don't know Punjabi I wouldn't understand I will say, &quot;Oh, he is saying cute&quot;. So, by the way, in this hotel, The Lodhi, you have quite good memories - You got married here. So did the rituals take place here? I spent my nuptial night here. Wow! At this point, I can lie to you Yeah, you can still say. What a plan! How is my planning? It's good. You got married very young, actually. - In 1981. So, back then you were 22. Yeah, we got engaged - Oh. You know, they were feeling uneasy. Then... - The need of the hour was to get married. So I said I won't get married... ...before my sister does. - And then? I got married on the 6th. Done. So all the guests - All in the same vehicle... And I remember, during the wedding, my brother and other people were dozing off during the rituals and I said &quot;Wake up!&quot; I don't blame them. They hadn't slept Then, of course, all... Your family went along with you I think no, by the time we reached nobody expected that we would reach or to save some money as our Because, back then, we used to get My God. Wait. 500 dollars per game No... 500 dollars you can exchange Oh, okay. So you had And individual allowance would be... - Per diem... We were a little lucky. But South Indian players had They wanted their rice, &quot;Sambhar&quot; Is this true that you used to say and people would say - Actually that's how it started. And Bombay was the hub of cricket. It was a saying that &quot;If you play for Bombay, Bombay administration didn't realize that we, who come from North India, eat more. That we eat more rotis than rice. They said, &quot;No, you will get only 2 rotis&quot;. What are you saying! At that time. - Today, one and a half roti is also fine. One and a half is good enough. These rumors, you see... I want to clear all the rumors today. Is it true that there were buffaloes at home - It is true. - My father didn't know about cricket. And my coach told him and I need to have milk and healthy food. And my father was a very simple person. He said, &quot;Is it?&quot;, got two cows And the background we are from - we never sold milk. Now there are two cows... ...in the backyard and at least 20 to 30 litres of milk I think my dad died From 14 years to 19 years, I don't even remember if I drank water. Because milk used to come filled - the ones in which you get beer. The empty beer bottles I remember, we used to drink only that. - Yeah. Thanks to my dad. Okay, one more rumor. Sherry Pa always says about your famous line Was this real or is it a story? Didn't I tell you? The ones who narrate I think, before that, my mother So, someone asked my mom &quot;When are we going to have To which my mom replied, &quot;I'm growing old Now there cannot be another Kapil Dev&quot;. So, my mother has her own sense of humor. And, like... ...my mom said, &quot;If I had known then I would have had a few more sons.&quot; I think the joke was that and I said the same thing. I said, Your spirit of enterprise in life, Because you are a serial entrepreneur. And from the time you retired, Where did it come from? When I was playing test cricket our manager was Chandu Borde. He was a former Indian captain. And when we won the test match in Bombay Mr. Chandu came to me and said &quot;I'm going to Pune So even after three hours, he was still there I asked, &quot;Mr. Borde, you haven't left? He said, &quot;No. He will give me my daily allowance That one statement changed my life. That is because he was a greater cricketer than us in his era. And that day, he had to wait to get his daily allowance to go back. That is the time when I started thinking &quot;Open your mind.&quot; That cricket is not everything. if something like that happens to me, Because when you are playing your thought process or lifestyle is here. But if you go below it, You will be a bitter and an unhappy man. So I used to say that I have to do something which will keep me as happy Before leaving there is Our dear friends who are making a movie I'm extremely happy it's getting made. I'm sure you are extremely happy Kabir Khan making the film These actors, I think they are fabulous and the director putting Like my pronunciation is not correct. So they used to pick up each and everything He was just thinking then what should be his attitude... And he was trying to establish - I told him I don't get angry. I have been angry on the field. Off the field, But they felt that I might lose my temper in the evening and break a glass or so. I said I never lost my cool. - We Punjabis don't break glasses. We raise them for a toast. That's not something to be broken. Paaji, I get tempted to ask you when you are done answering Even if we sit here for another five days I'd still not be done with the discussion. So, I think we should stop here No. Thank you very much. Even I haven't given such a long interview Thank you so much, Paaji. It's a pleasure Thank you. Hi, I am Kapil Dev and you can watch me And don't forget to like and also subscribe to Oaktree Sports Press the bell. Hit the bell... Like? You have no other option. - And share also.