So, I'll start with this: a couple because I was going And she called, and she said, &quot;I'm really struggling with how And I thought, And she said, &quot;Well, I saw you speak, and I'm going to call you but I'm afraid if I call you because they'll think (Laughter) And I was like, &quot;Okay.&quot; And she said, &quot;But the thing is you're a storyteller. So I think what I'll do And of course, the academic, was like, &quot;You're going And she said, &quot;I'm going And I was like, &quot;Why not 'magic pixie'?&quot; (Laughter) I was like, &quot;Let me think I tried to call deep on my courage. And I thought, you know, I'm a qualitative researcher. I collect stories; that's what I do. And maybe stories And maybe I'm just a storyteller. And so I said, &quot;You know what? Why don't you just say And she went, &quot;Ha ha. (Laughter) So I'm a researcher-storyteller, we're talking about and so I want to talk to you about a piece of my research and really actually changed and work and parent. And this is where my story starts. When I was a young researcher, my first year, I had &quot;Here's the thing, if you cannot And I thought he was just I was like, &quot;Really?&quot; And so you have to understand that I have a bachelor's and I was getting my Ph.D. in social work, was surrounded by people who kind of And I'm more of the, &quot;life's messy, and put it into a bento box.&quot; (Laughter) And so to think that I had found my way, really, one of the big sayings &quot;Lean into the discomfort of the work.&quot; And I'm like, knock discomfort and move it over and get all A's. That was my mantra. So I was very excited about this. And so I thought, you know what, because I am interested But I want to be able I want to understand them. I want to hack into these things and lay the code out for everyone to see. So where I started was with connection. Because, by the time what you realize is that connection It's what gives purpose This is what it's all about. It doesn't matter whether who work in social justice, what we know is that connection, neurobiologically it's why we're here. So I thought, you know what, Well, you know that situation where you get an evaluation and she tells you 37 things and one &quot;opportunity for growth?&quot; (Laughter) And all you can think about Well, apparently this is the way because, when you ask people about love, When you ask people about belonging, they'll tell you their most excruciating And when you ask people about connection, the stories they told me So very quickly -- really about six weeks I ran into this unnamed thing in a way that I didn't understand And so I pulled back out of the research and thought, I need And it turned out to be shame. And shame is really easily understood Is there something about me that, that I won't be worthy of connection? The things I can tell you about it: It's universal; we all have it. The only people who don't experience shame have no capacity for human No one wants to talk about it, and the less you talk about it, What underpinned this shame, which, we all know that feeling: &quot;I'm not blank enough. rich enough, beautiful enough, The thing that underpinned this This idea of, in order we have to allow ourselves And you know how I feel And so I thought, this is my chance I'm going in, I'm going I'm going to spend a year, I'm going to understand and I'm going to outsmart it. So I was ready, and I was really excited. As you know, (Laughter) You know this. So, I could tell you a lot about shame, but I'd have to borrow But here's what I can tell you and this may be one of the most important in the decade of doing this research. My one year turned into six years: Thousands of stories, hundreds At one point, people were and sending me their stories -- thousands of pieces of data in six years. And I kind of got a handle on it. I kind of understood, this is I wrote a book, I published a theory, and what it was is that, if I roughly and divided them into people who really that's what this comes down to, they have a strong sense and folks who struggle for it, and folks who are always wondering There was only one variable that separated the people who have a strong sense and the people who really struggle for it. And that was, the people who have believe they're worthy That's it. They believe they're worthy. And to me, the hard part of the one thing is our fear that we're not was something that, I felt like I needed to understand better. So what I did is I took where I saw worthiness, and just looked at those. What do these people have in common? I have a slight office supply addiction, So I had a manila folder, and I was like, what am I going And the first words that came These are whole-hearted people, So I wrote at the top and I started looking at the data. In fact, I did it first in a four-day, where I went back, pulled the interviews, What's the theme? What's the pattern? My husband left town with the kids because I always go into this where I'm just writing And so here's what I found. What they had in common And I want to separate courage Courage, the original when it first came it's from the Latin word &quot;cor,&quot; and the original definition was to tell with your whole heart. And so these folks had, very simply, They had the compassion to be kind because, as it turns out, we can't practice compassion if we can't treat ourselves kindly. And the last was they had connection, as a result of authenticity, they were willing to let go in order to be who they were, for connection. The other thing that they had They fully embraced vulnerability. They believed that what made them They didn't talk about vulnerability nor did they really talk as I had heard it earlier They just talked about it being necessary. They talked about the willingness the willingness to do something the willingness to breathe after your mammogram. They're willing to invest that may or may not work out. They thought this was fundamental. I personally thought it was betrayal. I could not believe I had pledged you know, the definition of research to study phenomena for the explicit And now my mission to control and predict had turned up the answer and to stop controlling and predicting. This led to a little breakdown -- (Laughter) -- which actually looked more like this. (Laughter) And it did. I call it a breakdown; my therapist (Laughter) A spiritual awakening but I assure you, it was a breakdown. And I had to put my data away Let me tell you something: when you call your friends and say, Do you have any recommendations?&quot; Because about five &quot;Wooo, I wouldn't want (Laughter) I was like, &quot;What does that mean?&quot; And they're like, Don't bring your measuring stick.&quot; (Laughter) I was like, &quot;Okay.&quot; So I found a therapist. My first meeting with her, Diana -- I brought in my list of the way And she said, &quot;How are you?&quot; And I said, &quot;I'm great. I'm okay.&quot; She said, &quot;What's going on?&quot; And this is a therapist because we have to go to those, (Laughter) And so I said, &quot;Here's the thing, And she said, &quot;What's the struggle?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, I have And I know that vulnerability and our struggle for worthiness, but it appears that it's also of belonging, of love. And I think I have a problem, And I said, &quot;But here's the thing: (Laughter) &quot;I just need some strategies.&quot; (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. So she goes like this. (Laughter) And then I said, &quot;It's bad, right?&quot; And she said, &quot;It's neither good nor bad.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;It just is what it is.&quot; And I said, &quot;Oh my God, (Laughter) And it did, and it didn't. And it took about a year. And you know how there are people that, when they realize that vulnerability that they surrender and walk into it. A: that's not me, and B: I don't even hang out (Laughter) For me, it was a yearlong street fight. It was a slugfest. Vulnerability pushed, I pushed back. I lost the fight, but probably won my life back. And so then I went back into the research and spent the next couple of years really trying to understand what choices they were making, Why do we struggle with it so much? Am I alone in struggling No. So this is what I learned. We numb vulnerability -- when we're waiting for the call. It was funny, I sent something out that says, &quot;How would you What makes you feel vulnerable?&quot; And within an hour and a half, Because I wanted to know what's out there. Having to ask my husband for help initiating sex with my husband; initiating sex with my wife; being turned down; asking someone out; waiting for the doctor to call back; getting laid off; laying off people. This is the world we live in. We live in a vulnerable world. And one of the ways we deal And I think there's evidence -- and it's not the only reason but I think it's a huge cause -- We are the most in-debt ... obese ... addicted and medicated The problem is -- and I learned this that you cannot selectively numb emotion. You can't say, here's the bad stuff. Here's vulnerability, here's fear, here's disappointment. I don't want to feel these. I'm going to have a couple of beers (Laughter) I don't want to feel these. And I know that's knowing laughter. I hack into your lives for a living. God. (Laughter) You can't numb those hard feelings without numbing You cannot selectively numb. So when we numb those, we numb joy, we numb gratitude, we numb happiness. And then, we are miserable, and we are looking and then we feel vulnerable, so then we have a couple of beers And it becomes this dangerous cycle. One of the things that I think is why and how we numb. And it doesn't just have to be addiction. The other thing we do is we make Religion has gone from a belief &quot;I'm right, you're wrong. Shut up.&quot; That's it. Just certain. The more afraid we are, the more afraid we are. This is what politics looks like today. There's no discourse anymore. There's no conversation. There's just blame. You know how blame A way to discharge pain and discomfort. We perfect. If there's anyone who wants their life but it doesn't work. Because what we do is we take fat (Laughter) Which just, I hope in 100 years, (Laughter) And we perfect, Let me tell you what we think They're hardwired for struggle And when you hold those perfect our job is not to say, My job is just to keep her perfect -- make sure she makes the tennis team That's not our job. Our job is to look and say, &quot;You know what? You're imperfect, but you are worthy of love and belonging.&quot; That's our job. Show me a generation and we'll end the problems, We pretend that what we do We do that in our personal lives. We do that corporate -- whether it's a bailout, an oil spill ... a recall. We pretend like what we're doing doesn't have a huge impact I would say to companies, We just need you to be authentic &quot;We're sorry. We'll fix it.&quot; But there's another way, This is what I have found: To let ourselves be seen, to love with our whole hearts, and that's really hard, and I can tell you as a parent, to practice gratitude and joy when we're wondering, Can I believe in this this passionately? Can I be this fierce about this?&quot; just to be able to stop and, instead of to say, &quot;I'm just so grateful, because to feel this vulnerable And the last, which I think is to believe that we're enough. Because when we work from a place, then we stop screaming we're kinder and gentler and we're kinder and gentler to ourselves. That's all I have. Thank you. (Applause)