In Nay Pyi Taw, when the military general's family was celebrating their children's wedding, a drone bomb attack killed some security guards, police and soldiers. News that all flights have been canceled due to the firing of shock missiles at Van Maw Airport. It is reported that some security guards, policemen and soldiers were injured and some of the soldiers were injured and some were killed when the revolutionary forces attacked with kamikaze drones while the children of the military general's family were having a wedding ceremony at the MICC 2 building in Nay Pyi Taw. On November 25, around 9:45 a.m., a drone bomb attack occurred at the MICC 2 building in Nay Pyi Taw while the children of the generals of the Military Council were celebrating their wedding. The military and police who were providing security at that wedding were bombed with deadly drones. On the 25th of November, Naypyitaw, Naypyitaw and Zambuthiri Township, Zeya Siddhi Ward, It is reported that a drone has crashed inside the director general's residence. The Myanmar International Convention Center building is also a place where the military council often holds state-level meetings and ceremonies. On November 5, Nay Pyi Taw's Aela Air Force was bombed by deadly drones, but the military council was quiet in its press release. Mandalay Division Nyang U District Nyang U Township, Military Support EPC Office in My Tharu City construction office The information office and the communication office were raided and destroyed by fire, said Kozi, who is in charge of Nyaung U Township PKA. On the morning of November 25, Nyaung Oo Township, The EPC office of the terrorist army support pillar in My Tharu city. construction office The information office and the communication office were raided. Kozi said that all the 4 offices were burned down because all the supporting pillars of the terrorist military council soldiers ran away due to this attack. At the time of such an attack, the terrorist soldiers at the police station in My Tharu city. There are police, but none of them came out. This attack was carried out by Nyaung U Township PAKAF (Pagan State Monster Army). Taungtha Township Pakafa, Nyang U District No. 5 Battalion 3rd Battalion of Myeng Farm District Popa Production and Guerrilla Force; 21 Bagan (Nyaung Oo Pakaf Division - 3) Mann Ba Khaing group and other allies attacked together, and it is known that the People's Defense Forces were able to successfully operate without harm. A military source told Yangon New Age that all domestic flights based on Van Maw Airport were canceled by the KIA after KIA fired a shock missile at the Van Maw Airfield, which was being reinforced by the Military Council in Van Maw City, Kachin State. On the morning of November 26th, explosions occurred in the airfield due to the firing of shock missiles by the KIA and PDF joint forces at Van Maw Air Base. A military source said that the attack was carried out because the military council was using the airport to reinforce its military forces. Between Van Maw and Moe Mok 7 miles away, the military council is launching an offensive to recapture Moe Mok Township as the fighting continues. In addition to this, it is said that the military council is very worried that the KIA will advance on Van Maw with military objectives, so they are resisting the attack. Shan State Residents of the area told the Yangon New Age news agency that the terrorist army has been stationed in the village of Mobanggyi for 12 days and 6 people have been arrested and beaten. On November 14th, the revolutionary forces attacked the terrorist army's gate camp in the entrance of the village . The terrorist military council soldiers were stationed for 12 days until November 26, and 5 men and 1 woman in the village were arrested and beaten for no reason, and their lives were in danger. In addition to this, the local people said that the terrorist soldiers have arrested and locked up the people in the village without leaving the village until now. The army rapes and kills Burmese women and girls. Ambassador U Kyaw Moe Tun, the Permanent Representative of Myanmar to the United Nations, urged the United Nations to take action to stop violence, including torture, and to take action against the perpetrators. On November 25, the United States New York City He spoke at the United Nations General Assembly plenary session to mark the 25th anniversary of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, held annually at the United Nations Headquarters . He said that the international community does not want Myanmar to be left out of efforts to stop violence against women and girls. Myanmar Ambassador U Kyaw Moe Tun urged the United Nations to continue to take the lead and take collective action to bring justice to victims and survivors, to end impunity to solve the root of the problem, and to hold perpetrators accountable. Sagaing Division Kyun Hla Township, An official from the Kyun Hla activists group told Yangon New Times that the terrorist army deployed in Kukkokone village for 6 days and continuously raided the villages. The number of people who fled increased to tens of thousands. It is reported that the terrorist column of more than 200 strong, which started early in the morning of November 20th, left from the village of Kampokone, after raiding the Kukkokoneywa district hospital and stationed in Kukkokoneywa until November 26th, and continuously raiding the nearby villages. That column was on November 20. On the 21st and 22nd, the village of Kukkokone, Ma Dong village The villages of Muktai and Tzang Teng were burnt down continuously. In addition, the terrorist military convoy has been continuously bombarding people fleeing the war with drones along the route of their advance, increasing the number of people who are fleeing. At present, Takone Village, Kukko Hill Village lemon tree village Mya Bomtha Village village Residents of nearby villages, including Ma Dong Village, Zag Thieng Village and Laktup Pin Village in Kantbalu Township, are reported to have fled. This is the presentation of the morning news of Yangon New Era. Thank you for watching. My name is Mya.