haven't seen you for a while. He's getting more and more handsome. Here's our chance for revenge. Little [ __ ], what's your name? Chen Zixuan. Turn around and let me have a look. Turn around. Turn around. Turn around. Come here and have a look, turn around, what are you doing, what are you doing? You are finally in my hands this time. Look where you are going. Don't do this. What are you doing? Damn bandit, let go of the captain. Captain, be careful. Don't do anything. I'm warning you, beast. If you dare to touch even a hair of my young mistress, I will fight with you. You are as slippery as a loach. I love eating loaches. Zixuan, I will kill you. You damn bandit , let go of the captain. The Golden Eagle King is pretty tough to let go. Captain, let go. Open her, I tell you, if you let me out, I will beat you to death. Don't do anything wrong. Let her go, you beast. Let go of our young mistress, let go of the captain. I said, why are you in a hurry? Hold on for a while, son Xuan, run away. Captain, let her go, you let her go, let her go, captain, you bandit, let her go, bastard, let her go, or I will kill you, let her go, captain, let her go, captain, stop, let go of our captain, you bastard. Stop and go, let her go. What are you doing? Are you opening the door? Are you going to pull him out? Chief Li, how could something like this happen in the prison under your rule? You are responsible. If the brigade commander finds out, he will be shot. You will put things in order immediately. Deal with that guy well. I said Miss Chen. The people in prison here are all scum. You are very lucky this time. I happened to pass by. But I can't guarantee that you will be so lucky next time, right? I think you should get rid of that as soon as possible. Submit the drawings, behave well, and try to leave this place as soon as possible. Are you a thief? You are more despicable than Zhou Yueting. Why do you bite Lu Dongbin and don't know the heart of a good person? This is good. I don't care. You should think about it yourself, Bai Gouzi. Be honest and stop making wrong ideas. The fatigue battle is useless. Why don't you give them some punishment? Look at what they are going to do. You bandits, Brother Jianbang, let's go. You mean to use Dulong Village? This gang of bandits is cleaning up the team. Put some pressure on the subordinates. Now go to Brother, kill him. Be careful and follow me later. I know what troublemakers do. Stop winking. Brother Jianbang, I will dig out your eyeballs and calm down. Forget it and leave. I thought What a tough guy you are? There is no difference between him and a softie. You old guy has no eyesight, you softie. Are you okay? What's the matter? What are you doing? Make trouble, right? Why should you apologize to Comrade Lao Mu? This Communist Party uncle wants you to apologize to him. What the hell are you waiting for death at home? Okay, I'll apologize to you. Don't think about it, the little girl is getting more and more handsome. Brothers, give it to me. I'll squat up and down , be honest, squat down, squat down, squat down, do n't move, squat down, don't move, don't you guys have a good time to fight here, believe it or not, I'll kill you, take it away, get up, get up, move, move, move, move, move faster. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Zhou Yueting's most cruel plan is to let Chen Zixuan witness his comrade Yang Jianbang being brutally tortured until his life hangs by a thread. Use this scene to destroy Chen Zixuan's will, beat him to death, and prepare to kill him . What was unexpected at first was that Qiu Zurong was staring at these Lao Yang. He beat him well. Jianbang beat him to death. He continued to beat him to death. Lao Yang, Jianbang, Lao Yang, I won, stand up well, Old Yang, I won. I got up again. I got up again. Beat him, beat him to death. Don't fight, Old Yang Jianbang. Old Yang Jianbang, Zhou Yueting, let go of me. I promise you, whatever you want, I will take whatever you want. I will take you down, take away, take away. Let's go, hurry up. Miss Zixuan obviously has something to say. Why are you in a hurry to take her away? Let's watch some private matters between the two of us. Then watch Jianbang and the others cheating. Stop and let me separate. Let go and separate them. This melee reminds me. Dai Xiangtao has come up with a way to escape from prison. Scatter them all, squat down, squat down, and take you two back. Come here, come in for me, go in, carry them out, Old Yang, Old Yang, let's go, Old Yang, let's go, let's go, let's go. It's you. The way I said made these idiots screwed up. I'll think of a way. I'm sincere and hope you can show some sincerity and come to the meeting . Don't move. It's you. It 's me. Brother Bird has the ability to kill me with one shot. Brother Bird, you have misunderstood. Brother, I came to you this time to discuss cooperation with you. Who is your brother? Who is your brother? You have caused me misery , do you know? Do you want to go out? Think about it, you are still holding my collar. That's right. Now that we are locked up together in a prison, we must work together to get out. If I hadn't cooperated with you last time, would I be where I am today? Just calm down. Brother Bird, don't blame me for what happened last time. I blame Zhou Yueting. If it weren't for Zhou Yueting, would you be locked up in prison? But I'm not afraid this time. As long as we cooperate, I promise to take you out of prison. What good will it do me to escape from prison? The benefits are great. That batch of German supplies will be yours. By then, not to mention the small Qingshui Ridge, the entire county, you can take the [ __ ]. You have all been arrested. The supplies must have been gone. Who told you about the current batch? The supplies are in the warehouse of the prison. Seriously, why am I lying to you? Tell me, what kind of cooperation is smart? My plan is like this . Food is ready. Food is ready. Everyone has food. Why are you alone? Here is Lao Yang. I don't know why Yang Jianbang was suddenly transferred. Don't grab them. They are as delicious as pig reincarnations. Don't grab them. Don't grab them. The young master's voice is okay. Young master, eat and eat. Don't move. Be careful of exposure. Where is Zixuan? Zixuan, where have you gone? Zixuan asked Zhou Yueting to take the interrogation room to where. The young master is okay. That big pervert Zhou Yueting is interested in the young mistress. He will not hurt the young mistress. How is Lao Yang's health? Can he still bear it? Can you bear it? Don't forget it. My body is made of iron. It's good for us Communists to have an iron will. There's something I have to tell my brothers. The lock on the prison door is about to be changed. If we want to escape from prison, there is only one way. This way. We can, what can we do for you? Just tell Zhou Yueting and ask for another duel with the Golden Eagle King. No, it won't work. Old Yang just had a fight with Da Jinya. You can see what's going on before you duel. It's not about killing him. What nonsense are you talking about? Why don't you eat? I educate you. There is nothing you can do. I have already agreed with the Golden Eagle King that this is the only way for us to escape from prison . That's it . Then, if we fight again, will I win or lose? It doesn't matter. What's important is that you can fight for as long as you can. The longer you fight, the more time I have to set fire. After I succeed over there, I will send you a signal and take advantage of the chaos. Let's work together to escape from prison. That's right. It's time to eat, eat, and live well. Ah, hurry up and eat. The young master reported to the hotel. People have brought Zhou Yueting. Do you want the drawings? This is the place where the prison is so prosperous. I just want to ask you. Do you want the drawings? The sun is shining in the west and the dignified mate Yang has come out. The captain wants to be a traitor. Where are the blueprints? You have to agree to one condition. Let me tell you. I want to fight with that Golden Eagle King. I want to kill him in front of everyone in the prison. This is not easy. Now I will send Several people beat him to death and said, &quot;Where are the blueprints? You don't understand. You all don't understand. You don't understand the meaning of a man's life. I am just for a face. Who is the Golden Eagle King? He let his men do it in front of everyone in the prison.&quot; Beat me and beat me like this. Brigadier Zhou, as long as you promise me, I will fight him again. If you want the blueprints, I will give you whatever you want. I will give you whatever you want, okay? You are so bloody, I can still help you. And you can After you give me the drawings, I won't tell them. Thank you, thank you. Thank you, Brigadier Zhou. If you are free someday, I would also like to ask Brigadier Zhou to come over and see me, Yang Jianbang, how I killed him. Is there anything else? It's okay. Take it with you. You have to promise me a good travel seat, and you have to sum it up. This guy can't believe everything he says. I beat him from the beginning, beat him to death, beat him to death. It doesn't matter whether I win or lose. What matters is how long I can fight. Beat him for as long as you want to kill him , then be clever and slim down the monkey, then when your young master gives the signal, we will run out. You run slowly and keep up with the team. Don't tremble, I know boss, kill him to death. They have made it clear in the hotel. Don't panic while you're stalling for time . Look around and see where Qiu Zurong is. Last time Qiu Zurong saw Chen Zixuan being taken away suddenly, he didn't know where he was. Is there anything going on? I can't care about that much. Just let him go. It's better for you. I've been biting and biting all night. Be careful when biting. What do you call me if you bite your hand? Are you looking for death? Hurry up and why don't you care about me? No one is there. Hurry up and walk away. Hurry up! I'm so stupid. I'm going crazy. Two people are tied like rice dumplings. Do you think it's easy for me to run away? Damn it, if they go to prison, Brother Dai will be finished. Tiezhu, Liu Laosan, take my knife and follow me. Come on, Dai Xiangtao, is it reliable? I can't hold it anymore. I'm acting in full. Come on, hit them, hit them, hit me, what are you looking at? Stop, what are you doing? I don't even know what to do. Open the door, hit them quickly, hit them quickly, kill them, boss, what should I do? You go and distract them. I'll sneak them out from behind. Get rid of it. Xiao Guo from the traveling seat will take people to see if Sun Wukong can escape from Tathagata Buddha's hand. Keep competing, keep going faster, hold on a little longer. Come on, hit me to death. Hit him to death. Move quickly. Hit him to death. Move quickly. Hit him to death. If he kills him, don't shoot. What's going on with Xiaonan? Keep an eye on her. Brother , hurry up and let everyone get into chaos. Quick, good sword skills . It's terrible. Come on, go on. Go on. What are you going to do? Boss, go on, go on , go on. Chase, don't mess up, hurry up. Brothers, go to the warehouse and quickly move Zixuan, quickly evacuate Zixuan and capture the ones who are alive. Captain, try to capture those alive. Quickly evacuate Dai Xiangtao. Young master, don't go back. What's wrong with you? Your ankle is sprained. Are you going to die? Are you okay? Are you okay? Where are the supplies? What supplies are there? I gave your hotel seat to the Golden Eagle King. When I came back, Ziming killed the group that went to the warehouse. You guys, come with me and hurry up. Why are you still taking care of supplies at this time? It's important to save your life. Run away where you are going. Come on, there's a traffic jam over there. Run over there. Come on, let's go. Big brother, Dai Xiangtao, keep an eye on me. Don't alert anyone. I'm going to report to the hotel now. It 's the hotel. Dai Xiangtao has sneaked in. That's great. He came in just to help the Communist Party. We will seize this opportunity to catch all the party members who have escaped from prison. Those materials are still in the warehouse, right? Subordinates understand that, let's go to the Weiguo brothers. Go down to get the materials and remove Laosan's steel cannon. I'll see if they go to Tiezhu to die. Ah, don't move the passenger seat. It seems that they have been prepared. Qiu Zurong has moved all the supplies. Do you still have bullets? There is no captain. There is no bullets. The captain behind him caught up with him. The road in front is also blocked. The ceasefire is over. The bullets are gone. They have run out of food, they are out of bullets, and it is not as good as God to capture the Master alive. It seems that today we brothers will have to deal with each other here. Guanyin Bodhisattva bless Lao Mu, you can let your god of plague bless us too, do n't make a sound. Monkey, you have been following me for so many years. You have been crying and making trouble asking me to buy you meat. But I am not very good to you and always kick you. I will definitely buy you meat in the next life. Thank you, young master Zixuan. If you have If I still remember you in the next life, I will definitely marry you. Shut up and get ready. Qiu Zurong, give me a ceasefire and kill them. The secret will be gone. What secret is it? The Communist Party has escaped. We can't keep our heads in Commander Gu's place. Stop it. Let's see who dares to open fire. There's civil strife in another village, isn't it? Zhou Yueting, come on, come on, come on, come on, what's going on? Captain Chen, evacuate the brothers quickly. Let's not talk about death and life today. The reinforcements of the 19th Route Army have arrived. Evacuate, Captain. , Young Master, evacuate quickly, wait for me, hurry up, catch them, don't let them run away, run quickly, Captain Bai Gouzi, get in the car to cover, get in the car, travel quickly, travel seat, travel seat, what's wrong, let that common feeling happen again. The party has escaped. I finally thought of a word to describe you, a tough guy. Look at his figure. I have admired you since I was a child. Show some respect. Brother Jianbang, I want to say a few words to you . This comrade is what I believe in. Communism, thank you for your compliments. You are so personable. Just say a few words. I think this mission seems to be more complicated than we imagined. Zixuan, you can rest assured that I will be your backing and the chief trusts you so much. There will be no obstacles that you can't overcome. Thank you, Brother Jianbang. With your combat experience and your character, I can only tell you this. What do you remember? He is Lao Qiang. I am not sure, but so far, he is the only one with the identity of Lao Qiang. He 's talking to me, but I'm very suspicious of him, Zixuan. I don't understand why you doubt your biological father. I'll tell you a lot of things in the past. At least this time, he said two words wrong. Then why are you still taking him with you? The order given to me by Chief Xu Longchuan is to bring Comrade Lao Qiang back to the base. At present, I am not sure that he is Lao Qiang, but I cannot rule out the possibility that he is not Lao Qiang. There is another result that I am most afraid of. What are you talking about? Could it be that the real Lao Qiang has been sacrificed? What he told Chen Songtao before he died was a fake joint code. The purpose was to remind us to get rid of the spies. Your analysis makes sense. But Zixuan, what do you think? If he is a fake old gun, how dare he go to the base area with us? This doesn't make sense. I don't know about that person. This is also something I can't figure out. If he follows us to the base area, isn't it true? If he is not The old gun will definitely not be able to save Longchuan. Longchuan, we can't withstand this weapon and equipment. The quality of individual soldiers is too different. I'm afraid reports from the base area have come in. Our 139th regiment and artillery battalion have successfully defeated the Communists head-on. The party's defense base requested the next order. We have just received the latest instructions from the Central Soviet Area, ordering the 4th, 14th, and 15th Army Corps of our Red Front Army to all evacuate the existing base areas and march toward the southwest of Ruijin as soon as possible. After all, it is still Do you want to leave? Order the Ninth Regiment to withdraw from the frontal battlefield and detour to the enemy's flank and rear. The remaining units will attack with all their strength. Comrade Mo Shaocheng, please lead all troops to evacuate in stages, simplify equipment, and aim for the fastest action. I will respond to the special forces in Dingnan. The Czech machine gun blueprints in the hands of the action team are very important. Considering the current situation in the base area, if they come back rashly, they will be in big trouble. With such a small group of weapons and ammunition from the Communist Party, so many of you did not stop him. What are you doing and eating? My subordinates are negligent in their duties. Take a look. This is the profile of the squad. This is Chen Songtao. I know this is the leader of the squad. Since Chen Zixuan, Chen Zixuan is a woman. Don't take it lightly. This woman is not an easy one. The Communist Party can give such a heavy task to a person. There must be a reason for the woman. You must be very alert to deal with her. Only then will you have a chance of winning. Check it out later. I am Chief Gu's nephew. What's wrong? We have to check. Chief Gu's nephew drives this car. It 's too shabby. There's no way it won't be shabby. This is a secret mission. It's a special period. All vehicles are subject to routine inspection. Check it for me. Don't move it. Don't move it. Get it. Don't move it. Don't move it. Don't move it. Don't move it. Don't move it. Don't move it. Move, don't move , don't move. Put it down, don't come here. Put down the gun. Put down the gun. You dare to break into my level with just a few of your guns. Let me let it go. I'll put it down. I said you are the ones who want to search. Just let them search. Why? It's so tense , put down the gun, put down the gun, put it down and get out of the way. Who is this? The Communist Party. The Communist Party has seized it. I'm responsible for sending it to Chief Gu. It's not safe. People are left on the road. Don't regret it. Dong, Shulin. , 10 What did you say to call you a bastard? Take them down for a walk. This thing is becoming more and more interesting. What do these two photos of the traveler mean? This man's name is Chen Songtao, he is a high-level double agent. I have a blueprint in my hand. This blueprint is the Chairman's dream. The woman who receives and transports the blueprints. She should be the leader of the team. Her name is Chen Zixuan. She said these are two big fish, and these two big fish are stewed together. But don't blame me for being rude. Give them a spoonful of stew. Why are you so sure? Zixuan and Lao Chen can escape. What if they can't escape? Will their lives be lost? You can't bear to let go of the child. You can't trap the wolf. You can't let go of Chen Zixuan. You can't protect everyone's safety. Look at how many people there are in our team. I'm doing this for everyone's good. I can't talk to you. I'm just waiting for the result. Dai Xiangtao, I'm telling you that in two hours, if Zixuan and Lao Chen, he won't be able to escape. First I'll kill you. You 're such a professional and reliable guy. Are you honest inside this time? It's okay. It's quite quiet. I want to interrogate the female communist. Do n't move. Don't move. Don't move. Slow down. Slow down. Do n't shoot. Ask them to put down the gun. Put down the gun. Put down the gun. Put down the gun. Get a dolly. Drive the car over and park. The driver came down and opened the door. Get in the car and leave. But they were allowed to run away. Don't worry, sir. I was more careful. The car didn't have much gas. They couldn't run away. How far is it? Good boy, please come and warn others. They are chasing after me. What's wrong? The car's gas is not enough. Now it's out of gas. Oops. Take Zi Ming. How far can we get to the checkpoint? Don't let them escape. Don't worry, everyone has made arrangements. They can't make it past the appointed time. If they don't come, nothing will happen to you, master. It's been more than three hours, master. Stop talking nonsense and hurry up and save people. You think it's smart, right? I'll save the lives of the three of you first. It's reserved for you. Everyone is ready to rescue people. It's a bolt. You can bring a few people here and watch the material captain execute the order. Walk around. Please pay attention to your safety. Something is still wrong. How could they untie the rope so easily? Why? Is it because the Communist Party is too powerful ? These two Communist Party members are the same as those who left just now. They are all Communist Party members. As long as this female Communist Party member is still in our hands, they will definitely come to the rescue. Immediately notify Captain Liu to reinforce the two companies. As long as they dare to come back for rescue, annihilate them. Sir, are you your commander? Are you inside? Hands on, tap, tap, tap. There are Communists, there are Communists, run, run, hide, hurry. They're coming soon. Move the machine guns over and hold them back until the rescue force arrives. No one can escape. It's the machine gunner. Come with me. Brothers, come on. Come on. Come on. Come on, take a look. Shoot. You've poked a human hornet's nest. Stop talking nonsense. Lao Yang, please obey. I went to save people with Shouhou. I held Shouhou away. Go, go, go. Awang, go, go, go, go. Grenade. There's someone. Go, go, go, go, go. It's over. I feel ominous. I have a premonition that Captain Chen will be transferred by the enemy. There is another possibility that he is dead, right? No, then what do you mean? Master, I think the young lady must be fine. What are you doing? Search, search, search, retreat, retreat. Dai Xiangtao, Lao Yang Chen Zixuan and the others are nowhere to be found, you bastard, why are you scolding me? Captain, a large number of white bandit troops are attacking on the east hillside. Captain, a group of people are coming over there. Young master, what should I do? The young lady is not rescued. We won't be able to escape for a while. Otherwise, we won't be able to escape. Let's run now. Run wherever you are. There is a car coming to cover. It seems to be the car driven by the young master. The young master is not dead. Don't shoot. Get ready to retreat. Get in the car, walk, walk, get in the car, get in the car, sir. Hello, I am An. The far eastern suburbs post commander's post has just been attacked by the Communist Party. Our side suffered heavy casualties. Look at the photos. Is it these two people? Yes, yes, they are the two of them. Can you be sure? I'm sure they turned into ashes. I know them all. Report that the Communists are gone. Zhou Yueting, your agency is responsible. Even if I, Qiu Zurong, are here, I let the female Communist Party member named Zhou go. What can you do to me? Qian Weiguo, do you know why I released that female Communist Party member ? Because the checkpoints are all people from Zhou Yueting. If we don't release that female communist, then we will watch Zhou Yueting swallow this piece of fat for himself. You kid is smart enough. Just watch. Sooner or later, these communists will fall into my hands. I will let them die without mercy. The fifth counter-encirclement and suppression campaign against the Dingnan base area has fallen. The people are here. Sun Fugui, the Red Fourth Front Army, is reporting to you. He is indeed my special agent. What does the company commander look like? This mission was personally ordered by Commander Gu. You will see the importance of the mission. Revolution means bloodshed and sacrifice to fight for the interests of the common people. After Chen Songtao, it is still unknown who has the blueprint. I have to take a good look at it. The task is difficult and adaptable. Brothers, the task of ambushing the Communist Party this time is very difficult. We all need to work harder and turn around. Are you giving rewards to Ayao ? He looks like the Red Army. He's still a little bit like this. After a while, I'll go in to pick you up. Tell your brothers, don't hit me when you shoot. Don't worry, go ahead. Then turn left and walk towards Yue Ting. I heard Lao Gu has arranged for you to chase down the team transporting supplies, right? After the matter is settled, you can still upgrade to three levels in a row, right ? Commander Chen, you have made Yue Ting confused. If there is anything, please let Yue Ting know. You also know this at this time. It's not a good time to drive out all the communists at this moment. History has its own opinions on which of them are good and which is bad. But I have to carry out the orders given by Commander Gu. There are some things that I don't need to remind you again. Without my arrangement, you can't be a leader with Commander Gu. Brigadier Yue Ting, I'm just reminding you not to kill all the people who are being pursued. Of course, I can understand if you just make some superficial articles. Commander Chen, don't worry, I'm yours wherever you go. But I I heard that the order this time was given by the chairman himself. If it is not carried out properly, it will cause trouble and may lead to death. I still say the same thing. I hope you don't forget the well digger when you drink water. You must never forget that I will do anything to help you. Leave some room for yourself. This is Chen Jitang's hard work. I really have no choice. Everyone gets off the car. There is a situation. What's going on? There is a roadblock. This roadblock is man-made. Be careful and pay attention to safety. There may be an ambush. Leave a few people to warn others. Clear the roadblock. Pay attention. Take cover, take cover, take cover quickly. Why are you saying this, Bai Gouzi? You are really one of our own. Yes, of course. Otherwise, why save you? Comrade, you are, I am from the Red Fourth Army. My name is Sun Fugui. You are sent by Xu Longchuan. The base area fell. Commander Xu was forced to transfer and sent me and Commander Mo to stay and pick up a special operations team. Commander Mo and Commander Mo and they sacrificed themselves. I was the only one who survived by luck. If I hadn't saved my life, I will fight with them today to avenge them. Comrade, don't be too excited. Don't be sad. The revolution has not succeeded yet. There are still many tasks waiting for us to complete. Thank you for saving me. You're welcome. We are the team you are looking for. Let me introduce my name. Chen Zixuan is the captain of this small team. This is Comrade Yang Jianbang, the deputy captain. Hello, I'm really sorry for almost accidentally injuring you. You are very skilled. What about the big force? The big force has evacuated to the west of Hunan. I finally received you. My mission is to take care of you and the big force. The troops gathered together and set off. It can be seen that the battle was very fierce. The base area was destroyed in this way. We must not let their fire of blood-death to pay for the revolution be extinguished.