My name's Gina Tatto, and He didn't get the help that he It ended in tragedy, heartbreak. Two families have been torn apart, These are the families that Australia's mental health My name is Vicki Walker. I'd just like to talk to you about in December 2016. Please don't judge my son Clinton. He didn't get the help he needed and as a result of that, myself and his girlfriend There's a terrible cost the mental health care they need. We begged and we begged for my son to be admitted but was told that and no beds available. So we took my son home ..he killed my grandson. REPORTER: This family tragedy at around 7:00 this morning. Tonight, on Four Corners how our overburdened is failing those and reveal public safety by a lack of access to treatment. Hi. I'm Clancy Daly. I'm a mother of a schizophrenic boy, mentally ill. It's just so hard, and couldn't get the help And it wasn't because the people it was because The system is wrong. One morning in November 2016, Clancy Daly's son Ben left A short time later, at the local shopping centre. Ben Daly had a long history Tell me, what is Ben like Well, the first thing is As sad as it is, he does a drooling, which is really embarrassing to him. Then he starts a horrible when the voices are so bad. And I have to get the medications - as soon as I see that anything's I had to get the medications His mother to get him admitted I wanted them to take him away and medicate him before he was released. And what happened? They took him to hospital, got him and sent him back home to me. And then sometimes when they'd three hours later, he was off again On that November morning, CCTV shows Ben Daly walking Moments later he randomly stabbed The man Ben Daly killed a loving father of My name is Emerald Baz. My husband was killed by a man with severe mental health issues. I'm here because I'd like to see to prevent this sort of tragedy Ian Baz Bosch had been for a kid's birthday party. To someone who's never met how would you describe him to them? He was just kind, funny, gentle. He was very generous with his time. You know, he'd always and he would always try and help Clancy's son Ben was first in his early 20s. He struggled with taking his He also used ice and cannabis. He told me, he said, &quot;I get two hours' break And I just said to him, &quot;and don't do it around me.&quot; But...I didn't want to condone it, Four months before the killing, Clancy warned doctors her son was Did he ever hurt you? He king-hit me one day because He was admitted to hospital Fearing for her safety, Clancy started locking herself When I was going to go to bed, &quot;Get your food for the night, &quot;get your drink for the night, &quot;have your toilet, get a toilet roll &quot;and take the portable bush potty &quot;take that in case you get &quot;but I'm going to I think people at home you were forced to lock up because you were worried Well, I wouldn't kick him out. They couldn't house him, I was left with it. After his last hospital stay, mental health workers to ensure he was They would not take Ben. They'd come out, And if a schizophrenic can get it to answer those questions, and then straight after be And so they'd go and say, &quot;He's They'd leave me with him I'm ringing the police The court was told Ben Daly and drug user. When he inflicted the fatal wound, the angels inside his head to hunt and kill paedophiles. REPORTER 2: Mr Daly claims at he did not have the capacity and to know what Late last year a judge found because he wasn't of sound mind. He's detained indefinitely It took the murder of ..for Ben to be removed and receive treatment. There is something seriously wrong Emerald Baz wants her children the man who killed their father I said, &quot;He has a mental illness &quot;He's not thinking right.&quot; I said, &quot;He's not necessarily &quot;He's done a terrible thing, &quot;..and sometimes people &quot;do things that don't make sense.&quot; It's frustrating because you just and obviously what is currently It's not working. There are terrible gaps Patients, I think, come to harm and we're incapable for...certainly for in our community on a regular basis. There's not enough capacity There's not enough acute beds. There's not enough capacity and there's not enough to provide 24-hour-a-day services. The Government of Western Australia it would fund 20 new But across Australia, acute mental and struggling to cope with demand. I've lived through of mental health care in Australia. I've seen the Burdekin inquiry which swept away the old asylums, and there was a tremendous optimism that we were going community-based system of care. And we reduced the number of beds on the basis effective community That promise was broken by every single state government We did not develop those sustainable Australian Institute of Criminology around 10% of homicide offenders I think the tragic cases with monotonous regularity. You know, we know by the mentally ill About half of them have presented in the weeks or two beforehand. There's reluctance because it might stigmatise the wider group of people who, you know, who are not violent or dangerous. I don't think it's helpful but it is helpful # I'm only one call away # I'll be there to save the day # Superman's got... # # I'm only one call away. # Before this catastrophe, I had a beautiful son, And within a blink of an eye, It changed my life. It changed the family's life, and it will never, ever We begged, and we begged for my son to be admitted but was told that there was We took my son home and two days later... ..he killed my grandson. WOMAN: I still miss him every day, still want him to come back. I keep asking myself Why is it happen to me You want to put onion on, too, Mum? I have no onion. You did have a red one. For legal reasons of anyone in this family. We've changed them for this story. It's not supposed to be dry, Mum. I know, I know Maybe a bit of... Yeah. Susan's son Michael That's good now. Ann is Michael's partner. They had a baby boy in 2012. And I thought, &quot;Oh my gosh.&quot; I have never been as I was that day, first grandson. He was very good. He loved his son. He took him everywhere. He used to... ..pick him up, put him Like, so proud that he was a father. Wheels. Ooh, wheels! Good job, Daddy. You're an excellent man, Daddy, I like you're a excellent man. He good. He love his son so much. Couldn't imagine This...this one here. Like that. OK? Not long after his son Michael's mental health deteriorated. Be good for Daddy. Bye-bye. Have fun. You could tell it by his... the way that he sits, the way that he's trying but doesn't quite know So we knew that he was not well. We took him to Hornsby Hospital and he admit that straightaway, by one of the psychologists there. So she found a bed for him. What did doctors assume That he hadn't been In fact he was, but the high dose Doctors changed his medication. The switch to a medication and proved to be ineffective and as a result of that switch, After a month in hospital to the care of his PROF. McGORRY: When you change you don't know if the new medication as well as the old one, so you really do very, very carefully probably for the next few weeks, And the system, is unable to do that, really. Ann was worried as her partner's behaviour He get a little bit confusing and talking about, you know, God, something like that. I keep monitoring him. Keep watching him, But he seemed to be... He stopped eating, but he still take medication Michael was seen by community When they ask my partner questions, he always say, &quot;I'm alright. And they not even I'm trying to push so hard he not good, he need help... ..but they just ignore me. In a last-ditch attempt to get help the family took him back to Hornsby When you said, &quot;He needs to be There's no beds. There's a bed block I said to her and that he was having thoughts Anyway, I pleaded with her. Oh, my God, I've never pleaded I've never pleaded so much. Anyway, with that, I took my son, I took him out. And he's going, &quot;I want to go home He said, &quot;I'll be OK. I'll be OK. He was in need of some attention. He was so in need of some attention, ..just weren't interested. They just weren't interested. Two days later, I took his partner to work and then I went back to get him ready for school. REPORTER: Good morning. A 5-year-old boy has died in a horrific case REPORTER: Weighed down a grandmother REPORTER: A 36-year-old man, has been taken into police custody REPORTER: Sources close to the family a man who tried over and over again I saw him in prison about, four or five weeks after this event, and he was still acutely unwell, with florid delusional beliefs and other signs of acute psychosis. Did he have an understanding when you interviewed him? Not the first time, no. He's still affected and just didn't have Four Corners has obtained the Health which catalogues It shows poor communication: ..and lack of checks led to a lower dose of antipsychotic Critically, the report states New South Wales Health The Health Department it's implemented including improving (PRAYS IN NATIVE LANGUAGE) Michael was found by reason of mental illness and is now in a secure His partner Ann seeks solace (PRAYS IN NATIVE LANGUAGE) I'm not angry with him, I worry about him, what he's I forgive him, the first time. I'm concerned, he's not gonna get fixed, If your son had been admitted do you think this would've happened? No. No, definitely not. Because he would have He would've had his medication He would've been fine ..we wouldn't be here today. What's your reaction when you see Well, it's an intense feeling and even I feel because I think this tragedy and it's caused endless suffering and it's preventable. My name's Gina Tatto, He didn't get the help when he needed it the most. It ended in tragedy, heartbreak. Two families have been torn apart, NEWSREADER: Joshua Josef Barker killing Dale James Watson NEWSREADER 2: A Kings Meadows man after a fatal hit-and-run The 31-year-old's defence argued Barker had after being assaulted In March 2018 in Launceston, Joshua Barker drove his car His sister still struggles how he could take a stranger's life. It's not like he woke up His mental health deteriorated Because we're not experienced, We didn't realise the signs. But to a professional, exactly these signs It was an escalation. Four weeks before the hit-and-run, when her brother threatened And I just said, you know, &quot;he's not dangerous. &quot;He's just...he's getting sick. &quot;We're scared he's gonna MAN: He was taken by police so that they could then have him to be given some assessment and, if appropriate, or at least observation Josh arrived at the hospital and What do we do now? That was our last resort. Um... We were deflated, we were exhausted. We felt so alone. For the next three weeks, while his family struggled to manage I frantically called anyone Anything that said &quot;mental health&quot;, We didn't know what to do. I reckon I called With all my experience that's all I got constantly, And I kept saying, &quot;But he &quot;He thinks he's fine.&quot; The night before, the 8th, Josh sat for several hours and talked about all of his beliefs, believing that the world was divided that were angels and devils His mental health is gone. He's delusional, Um...so, then I panicked, The last person I rang was the hospital, the CAT team, Um...told them it was urgent, And she said, &quot;I'll get someone &quot;to call you straight back.&quot; Hour and a half later, It was too late. Joshua Barker was already driving to a suburban street Dale Watson was in the same area. The two had never met. My name's Terry Watson. Um...I'm here because my son by a hit-and-run driver, Our family's struggled with this and we're still waiting for answers. Why? And we still get no answers - Dale Watson died on the pavement. He went up to see a friend. He was just walking down coming around a corner, and this Josh Barker rode a gutter. And Dale was nearly He'd come that far over to hit him. Joshua Barker kept driving. The next day, Prison staff there. That's the actual prison van That's family. Joshua Barker's murder trial (VEHICLE REVERSING ALARM If somebody with a mental illness then that's a failure, in my view. Somebody with mental illness through the mental health system. And if they end up before it's because ..or haven't received that could've prevented As the jury considered its verdict, (KNOCK AT DOOR) Better answer the door MAN: We have a verdict. We have a verdict. Yep, so, the jury's obviously Um...when it comes to a verdict, no matter what the verdict is, OK? So, if it's one that goes If it's one that we're Go! It's alright. But what happens if I do react? Just do your best, mate. So, we've just a had After just 40 minutes they've found him not guilty In this, You know, I feel sorry You know, they've lost a son so, you know, MAN: Thanks for speaking, Terry. Good on you, mate. The judge ordered Joshua Barker in a secure hospital indefinitely. Our prisons are now our new asylums and we've got literally hundreds in prison, uh...receiving, often, GINA: It's starting (BLEATS) Oh, yeah, they've Joshua Barker's family wants him Do you worry that, if he is released, could happen again, No. No, he's on board now. He's on board. He wants to make sure that Terry Watson believes his son's TERRY: My own opinion is that 'cause I believe if he gets out, Do you think there needs to be for people like Josh? Yes, there's gotta be. Because if we don't do it's gonna keep going on and on, and whoever commits a murder can plead post-traumatic stress, I could kill you here now, five minutes later, and say, &quot;Look, I had &quot;I didn't know what I was doing.&quot; Research shows offenders who receive are far less likely to offend again. Once they've been treated and gradually returned they're actually a very safe group. The forensic mental health system and it is...you know, you don't that can only provide once someone's committed That we have to wait for that Well, look, it's a complete You know, to think that the only way and the treatment you get is, you know, is by committing a tragic offence, ..it's, uh...it's, um...absurd. My name is Vicki Walker. I'd just like to talk to you about in December 2016. Please don't judge my son Clinton. He didn't get the help he needed and as a result of that, myself REPORTER: For years, Clinton Walker Last night, police allege REPORTER: Police found seizing a machete and a sword, and forcing their way into a room We just heard this and, &quot;Get out, f-ing this REPORTER: It's believed were being repeatedly stabbed by a man who was armed but also a sword. (BURBLES) Are you trying to tape me on video? Vicki Walker's son Clinton MAN: Good on you, Clint. He was an outgoing child and VICKI: He was first diagnosed when he was about 16, but that was mainly depression, It wasn't until he was 18 that he got labelled They didn't know whether or schizophrenia... ..following an assault on him. And what was that like Oh, it was pretty scary but... Because no-one really talked to you ..what future Clinton could have Throughout his early 20s Clinton had Clinton would recognise and we would, through his help get him back into In late 2016, Clinton began having He said to me, &quot;Mum, I need to who he hadn't seen a lot because he'd been well. So, he started seeing him again Anyway, probably two weeks he was really unwell, Clinton was taken by ambulance in delusional and paranoid state. He believed his mother's house And ambulance officers decided that it would be good to be examined VICKI: He'd never been this anxious and he'd been scheduled before for So, in Clinton's mind, he thought that they weren't going he thought that After waiting for two hours, Clinton left without being seen His medical notes recorded Well, the problem was He was given, I think, a small dose of a low potency and no arrangement was made of what was an acute relapse that was really going to require I really thought that the police because they'd scheduled him for a lot less symptoms and a lot less bizarre behaviour. They didn't come and then I thought, &quot;Oh, well, maybe the after-hours &quot;from the hospital will come.&quot; They didn't come either The next night, and went to check on him. He had this ornamental sword and... I didn't know that's what it was, but that's what and it happened to get me I just froze. I didn't know I'd never ever seen Clinton let alone... ..do anything like that. Clinton's girlfriend was also She was stabbed too. And it was that point that I got ..&quot;He doesn't know who I am.&quot; I think that's when he said, That's when he cut my face. And I went to put my hand up and I got cut on my hand too, And then he went outside again, yelling at neighbours, YEVGENY: Vicki required surgery, as a result of the assault and now suffering from psychological Clinton Walker was arrested and charged with multiple offences, He spent several months in jail before he was found In his case, he had fully recovered and they were able to make an immediate order which, as I understand it, he's continued to receive treatment and remained well. You know, if he became unwell he would be taken back Australia's acute mental health Those who work in the system say Public safety is being put at risk by this continuing neglect of particularly at the more severe I'm sort of a bit over people and saying that they understand. They actually have to and actually improve the system. More than three years Vicki Walker still struggles She blames her trauma that failed to help him. Clinton is still living with his mum. I think a lot of people that he's back living with you here in the house Probably, but I guess at the time, and I didn't want to see Clinton I really thought that they were actually going to put him in like and work with him and help him and give him trauma counselling To date, none of that's happened. CLINTON: I love you, Mum. Clinton Walker watched off camera He didn't want his face to be filmed. He still has a lot of shame &quot;Mum, you're the one person &quot;Why would I... You know, why?&quot; I'm just... See, it's our life, you know, You're alright. No, you're right. I thought you needed my support I blame the mental health system for not recognising Clinton's Please don't judge my son He knew he was unwell and didn't receive it. Captions by Red Bee Media Copyright Australian Broadcasting