I'd like to start My wife purchased it over 20 years ago at a crafts fair in the hills Her father was also The craftsman This pattern was onto the top of the cutting out by hand We didn't have a lot of money at the time so I can't imagine than maybe 20 or 25 dollars. And it amazes me to this day that someone with so much skill into something and My wife has used it for all of those intervening years and bit of damage in that time. She stored things other things lot to her over the years. Now you could make materials and did today, but I don't think This is a box that I made. It was probably the second thing I downloaded a set of files and gave me six different templates, and it probably took maybe 20 minutes for the laser to cut to assemble it. Now I'd like to show you but I won't do that at just one level. I consider this a basic level. I will show you how to do that. But then I'm going and show you a box more skill and looks a And then I'll take even and have a third box for you to see. I hope whether you have a GlowForge and create can create you'll enjoy seeing how We can create sentimental and one did hopefully for years to come. I hope you enjoy it. Let's start with the beginner box now. And for one of the able to talk about having to do a And there's a good reason for that. With most of what and I'm having to gear and pay attention to what In this case the Glowforge And for each of the three boxes This material here it's It comes from Glowforge itself. It's about 1/8 inch thick. In this case it's Maple with So they pre-finish put this tape over it One problem is because it's thin it So we've got a little bit of curve to it. You can fix that though inside And I have just These are from the exact same You can push this into the grid this is the bottom of the the corners down to Let's get cutting. There's really nothing The material is put in with the QR And then I use those little pins and push them into the holes The Glowforge laser itself You can see that it's It shows that in After that you simply import the SVG you lay it out so that it all You press print and the Once the cutting is done you may have to pop out the little out. But then you can simply peel off the tape which removes the pre-finished wood behind. Okay so the laser has done its The tape has all come off And I don't think it's a mystery These sides will come up here The only maybe not obvious part is that we're going to have top so that when it sits in it Now normally when you're working with But in this case we can't do that. Because the finish is on there as soon as this glue would dry, So instead we have to use this. This is cyanoacrylate glue. Normally called CA glue. And you can pick I get this from my hardwood supplier. It's so commonly used by woodworkers. We'll put this on as an accelerator And the set only takes a minute or so. And all of this will be A more familiar name And even those who haven't done and know that it sticks to a So it's important to use just enough both on the horizontal what you're gluing up. And to keep your fingers away. I've also put this my assembly table to from being stuck too. The accelerator spray is put on a Otherwise you'll harden up And it allows the glue to So I just work my way around putting all four sides onto this on the piece that I'm adding to the box. The top plate has will be attaching it So what I'm doing and putting very tiny drops, evenly across the whole plate. I'll then put the accelerator on the to 15 seconds. And there you are. That's really all there is to it. About 20 minutes or so like I said on the laser and about 5 And it's a very good, It does however give off a You can tell by the box joints here where the burnt edges go It definitely has see where people things in little shops. And so while it functional box for like, to me it a little bit says there's not a lot of this particular box. And so I'll show do when I normally away as gifts. And to do that I need to use a In fact I'm going to use this. To some extent it's very much It is a plywood with Maple This one however was 1/8 of an inch thick while this one is double that at 1/4. It also doesn't have The material that comes from the laser maker, the proof quite nice. However, it can be I actually buy these in 4x8 sheets in the laser. So that's what we're going to do first. We're going to prepare the material and then I'll show you at a little bit more Once the material is cut down to 1 foot lengths I use a water two coats on each side using a I prepare material I bought a very which I apply to both sides. The laser itself consistent focal length for the laser and so I use this card against the material evenly Then it's just a matter of cutting it to length so that it This style of box skills in addition skills, so let me explain. No, there's too much, let me sum up. The laser works with a file format called Scalable Vector program available to That's what I'm using here. I need to replace the outlines of each of the sides to no but instead to be rectangular. And so I select around and scale the top rather than just dragging a Once I have the new shape for the outline, Note here too, so that the grain patterns match, I'm adding four circles here to the same cut that will be is cut by the laser. These circles will be the feet I'm also creating an L-shaped I subtract one from this L-shape as a the four corners With all of the computer work done, we can put the material do the work for us. I'm going to be putting There's a few ways to do that so I One way to do it is to I don't recommend this, it's quite difficult to have your There's no reason to get used to The next one to try you can use a miter saw itself with the I find there's some You can however use the miter saw to down and get a much more accurate cut. Using a chamfer bit I recommend having a guide behind the piece to keep it And then a final saw blade to 45 In the end, I found the chamfer bit on and so I took all four of those sides and even 45 degrees. To glue up a small painters tape and I also used this so that if there insides, I could just peel that off Now I should have used You can see them popping But I was able to make it work in the end and I checked it turned out just fine. I used a laser to cut the base of the of a shape to give me a I did use CA glue in that particular application as well as And you can see I'm using the There's a little particular box than the first one but I'm still using the same And here is the second box. It's a little bit of a larger size that balances out the The construction is mostly I've matched the bottom to the top It has feet on it as well. And you can hear it's big enough I added a little touch of You could do pictures and I think that'll make a But to go up one little more to the material that we used here. I like the look of the black here, But the problem is we have to kind of The veneer on the You can't sand it. And for this third make, we're going to actually have to use solid wood because And the laser will cut solid wood. It will not cut if we get it down to 1/4 inch it will. And you'll see why I have 3/4 inch material here, and I should be able to get two 1/4 inch pieces out of that. To do that I just need to take That will leave a jagged edge on one side which you can fix a jointer, preferably a planer. I still want to so I'm having to Note here though that I have not The finish is The sides themselves this time are That means they're that's cut by the is a solid backing. And I'm cutting out the backing Now I need a much tighter seal this glued things together. And so I'm not using In this case I'm going to use some In order to get that pressure evenly across the entire little clamps. And I used a little bit more of the epoxy brushed in just to up all of those edges. I then had to give it The reason I took the time to get these sealed up properly is try and go for a So I've mixed up red dye to it so roses here. You have to be very You can't let it spill over into So I'm using this of drip the epoxy And it's important level of the a little bit of a I was nervous enough after doing the red and green that I let I came back and did this sky I let that all set up overnight. And I went to sand it down, and here I'm actually sanding off that burnt look from the laser. I'm then also It's important to wear a Also they're terribly comfortable. I think everybody will I switched up techniques for And I went to my in there, and made of these cuts they would I want the top of like it's still 3/4 of an inch, but the laser won't cut that size out. So I'm actually taking the Shaper and inch down so that there's a I then flipped the lid over and drew out exactly where the box pattern needs to be. Because now I need cut underneath with to be cut into it. And that's actually a fairly difficult thing to do because is not very precise at all. In order to get actually put some rectangles on that were outside the pattern and Then made micro those scores ended up After that it's up to All right quick timeout. I just finished laser cutting the top frightening than I This is the first time that I've ever cut something where Usually the board is metal plate underneath it, And I hadn't What ended up the little pieces is and then they'd kind of And the laser would come through on and hit the piece that had already fallen. And they would start they flamed up enough that I had to I fortunately kept water here, and I came Anyway, here's the result. Right there you can fallen through, and Just a whole bunch we're just getting But all's well that ends well. It looks like a prepping it so that Using the markings on the tape, I was saw, and get the I need to backing under the lid as well, if I'm going to be able and this is the one core plywood, because you won't be able to see the sides of And I'm gluing it in technique that I used before, filled up as best I can. There were a couple was a bubble or maybe I And so I took a clear epoxy and and let them set up. for a little and I would be away so I was trying so that it would be This meant putting each of the three set up first, which is Well, it's the next morning and you In fact, I believe I committed one of the classic blunders when The first of which is never No, that that doesn't seem right. Anyway, the blunder that I I didn't give the and so what you if you look closely, is a lot of bleed over. The reds have gone into into the blues, and in fact mixed together, and it doesn't look good. In addition to that, It basically glued board I put between All in all, it's kind of a wreck. But I do know that the technique is correct. Now it's not as here, but that's because I'm goint to take it up to 500 and just like this, nice and bright. So I do know that but like usual, as a I've kind of messed it up. I know that some of you make so many mistakes, I also wanted to show that while I I pulled out my jitterbug in Once I have the new piece, I take it over to and to align it. insert in the back this time What you can see as I there and until I I also decided to up my game from the previous box by checking once again to make Then you can see just a little bit so that I would have a leaving it so you The epoxy work still needed to but this time I allowed poured them in. So the but by the time I got to the green, all the other cells had been mostly just pour it out of While I didn't record it, pass with some clear But I was for the most the epoxy stuck up high all back down. To add just a little I put a half inch chamfer Using a chisel, I then back of the box so that I I'm using a hard wax finish here and like I said, I had And it's just really to pop out as you get I put two coats of finish on each, to make sure the whole thing was smooth. The final step is to I used a center punch to I pre-drilled out the area for the And here they are. Each one with a slightly different pattern, increased amount of to put them together. I even took this box that and I did what I could to repair Not a perfect repair, but I did what I could Now I know you detail as the others, helpful to compare my first attempt You can see these bleeding colors and obviously, it's still And that just goes to show you that patient, and putting care into the process while you're building really There is one other Not only did they of woodworking skill to put them together, but they took an As I mentioned, this box took me This one - cutting the miters, getting probably two or three hours. this one was days worth of effort. Not only with the but each one of these sides, letting them set up, getting it ready for finish, putting all of that went involved build. that the amount of time something like this is If you were to sell it. Much like the box that woodworker at And yet even knowing that, when I'm retired, putting a bunch of and talking to people about what it took to put this together. And and it might mean something to them Even if all I got back out of it, maybe, I'd love to hear what you Maybe there's an idea that I missed about that too. It might be Thank you so much for I know not everyone has was still something I do hope to see you in the next one