Dolphins are likely the most intelligent and mysterious animals on our planet. They use complex sounds and to form rich social lives that we're only beginning to understand. But mass tourism is destroying With hundreds of tourist all day, the noise has forced dolphins to underwater, and first studies indicate that the communication is failing. The number one thing needed so we can quickly advocate for protection. That's why we went to one of the world's premier dolphin hotspots in Portugal to help provide the data the secret language of dolphins, and ultimately protect We're Planet Wild, welcome to Mission 8. Dolphins might well be the on our planet, besides humans. One way scientists try to measure this is by comparing the brain to body ratio, where dolphins come than any other mammal. But let's look at behaviour as well. We know that dolphins are capable of abstract thought, use tools, and then creative and even have a unique culture that differs between different regions and is passed on through generations. This is mind blowingly complex behaviour, and there are so many examples for this, including dolphins rescuing humans at sea, which also shows the and empathy towards other beings, and it's why so many people love them. But the fascination with the target of intrusive mass tourism, specifically unsustainable that have been exploding one of Europe's number - Over the past decade, the increase from 10 to 150, and some of them go out five times a day. That increases a lot the - We're here with Joanna Castro, the founder of AIMM Portugal, an incredible organisation and protecting dolphins in the region. Joanna has been working with and has devoted her life to them. Her team has closely studied over the past decade. One way to do that is spotting, photographing, when they come to the surface. Together with the AIMM team to collect data and better understand how the increasing tourism and how we can protect them. (upbeat music) - Dolphins can distinguish between the different If it is a fishing boat, a And if they feel very comfortable they can come really close. (upbeat music continues) - We are right in the I did not expect we would Let's take a look underneath the surface. (upbeat music continues) - Okay, so we have a lot of newborns here. And you can see them very well because you can still see the A week, two weeks old, maybe days. - Oh really? - Just absolutely newborns? - That day we were able to document the behaviour of a group that travelled with us The team can identify individuals by their unique dorsal fins, to compare migratory roots over the years, and study group forming behaviour, like the interaction which is fascinating. Here are three facts that Dolphin mothers are often when raising their young. The young dolphins can have that they visit regularly, and dolphins are the that, just like us, use when speaking to their little ones. I mean, how cute is that? - Their social intelligence and behaviour it's in many ways similar to humans. - But what makes dolphin let's say compared to primates, is that they are not at Our last common ancestor which makes dolphins the we have ever encountered in our universe. So every similarity is but even more fascinating are all the ways in which the intelligence Humans spend a lot of brain power on manipulating their environments based on the simple Now, without that ability, dolphins must focus their on other strategies, like and they have developed that are way beyond our understanding. - The more we understand, the more we realise - The key to decoding lies in the intricate world Over millions of years, they of clicks, whistles, and cooperate, and form social bonds. Dolphins emit and perceive That's more than a hundred and the auditory cortex in their brains to process that information than that of an adult human. And this makes them incredibly Before we continue with the story, let me quickly tell you who we are. Planet Wild is a global that anyone can join, to through monthly missions If you want to become consider joining Planet Wild as a backer, and help make our world a little wilder for as little as six bucks a month. And if you join today, I your first rewilding mission There's a link in the description below. Now back to the video. As human beings, we tend to believe that under the sea there's this escape from the noise of the modern world. But the reality is that human noise has long invaded our oceans. Industrial shipping, offshore there's virtually no where underwater noise And for dolphins living close to shore, the dolphin watching industry has become one of the biggest stressors , as they specifically target, chase, and circle dolphin groups all day long. - We have seen sometimes surrounded by 15 dolphin watching boats, and this is not sustainable in any way. - First studies in other places have shown that the high frequency and force dolphins, not only to change their own communication frequency, but also to increase their own volume. In other words, they're But even then the and fails more often. Researchers even suspect that the noise pushes mothers with calves away from their preferred feeding grounds close to the shore. And forces them to retreat that are less suitable - The noise is exhausting for the animals, and we can see already from the surface some changes in their behaviour. To enact change, we need to understand what's happening underwater that dolphins inhabit. - And that's where we come in. The planet Wild community with two hydrophones dolphin communication underwater And now, let's put this thing to work. (upbeat music) Alright, so if I switch this the hidden world of - Yes, go ahead. (dolphins clicking) - At first, everything of underwater sounds. To even start understanding we need the help of computers. - And what we're trying to is to try to have a little and trying to make a sense out of it. - Once you tune in closer, you can see clear patterns emerge. These clicks are echolocation sounds. It's like dolphin sonar. They listen to the echo of In fact, dolphins have the on the planet, even beating What you see here are signature whistles. They're similar to human names. Every dolphin has a to identify each other. This right here are two dolphins (dolphins whistling) So this individual was - Yeah. an academic exercise, is crucial to advocate Based on visual tagging alone, AIMM has contributed to an incredible initiative that has just recently led to the creation of a marine protected - [Andre] This is the area for that we are creating now here in Algarve. It goes from Alfanzina Lighthouse almost until the Marina de Albufeira. - Putting the reef under its protection was a huge community success, and the law will go into effect next year. - With a dedicated audio analysis, Joanna hopes to push even further. - So right now is crucial collecting data before and after to show our nature is healing. - With a long-term audio Joanna's team would be able of the new legislation and make to further expand it. That's why our second hydrophone will be permanently installed right at the centre of the protected area. - This data will be the basis to advocate for even more protected - Andrew and I are gonna - Are you ready? - Let's do this. (upbeat music) The water was a bit that dolphins have evolved to but eventually we were able as planned right at the reef. (upbeat music continues) - We never have a stationary so everything we'll learn - [Markus] Soon marine research will be the only human and we will be able to show - We need to give a little bit of time to the ecosystems to recover. And if we do our part and limit our human presence, the system will recover naturally. And we will very soon see the benefits of the protective area. - Being able to get such is the dream of any marine researcher. And the excitement of It's this work right here, the and analysis of primary data and backdrop of any rewilding initiative. Because to support nature, we And deepening our understanding yet still mysterious animals, relies on people like Joanna and her team. - Being the only conservation doing what we do, and it hasn't always been easy. And going out in the water, facing the ocean pretty much every day can be really difficult at times. But every piece of data that to understand and better protect - You too can make our By joining Planet Wild as a backer. Together we can bring clean up our oceans, and As a member, you can vote connect with me and others on our Discord, and see your own impact So make sure to sign up today. There's a link in the description. And of course a big thank you goes out to all our existing Planet Wild members for making any of this happen. You've just unlocked the new dolphin badge in the Planet Wild App, well deserved. If you want to watch some more, check out our other mission videos, like this one here, or this one. Alright, that's it from my side. See you all again next month. Over and out. (soothing music)