Cooking Easy Wife, you are too handsome Oops. Oh, mama ah Jiang 17 family law to serve, Emma mother-in-law don't ah This cooking is inevitable. It's all your fault, smelly boy, you don't cook. 17 is so hard. Hey, don't, don't, don't Cooking is voluntary. You said he couldn't finish all the work by himself. Then I'll give you a babysitter The younger ones can still play with you. Good. What about your usual job? It's cleaning and cooking. Oh, by the way, and the aunt who played well with 17 Cough, uh, mom You're back Er, oh I'll wipe it for him, ah Don't don't don't don't don't wipe Let me take a picture I'll send a circle of friends to show the old sisters what a beautiful daughter-in-law I have. Emma. You leave me alone and just take a good look at 17. 17. Your task today is to have dinner and beauty and watch another movie. There are 5 million in this card, 5 million My daughter-in-law I spoil to 17 There are 20 million lines in this card. Come on, let's go. You clean at home Good aunt. Fan Zong, where is Jiang Shiqi better than me Why can't I be the hostess of this house? Hum Ouch, my waist It's a big house with 300 square meters. I'm exhausted. This house is not small You're too tired to be alone Let me help you Thank you. Hum You are finished, or I come Auntie, Jiang 17 This insatiable woman You were considerate of her and hired a nanny for her. She thinks this house is small. Don't talk nonsense here. I have proof, you listen This house is small Aunt I think you need a daughter-in-law who knows how to cherish more. I'm not the same Your audio is clearly synthetic Don't frame others here. Er, I think 17 is right. What's the matter, so busy 17 Ah, to love someone is to feel wronged for her. Mom thinks the 300 square meter house is really small I decided to buy a 1000 flat manor and give you 1000 bottles. Uh-huh. It's just hard for the nanny to clean up. Then I must be exhausted. Let's go Let's go to see the manor Fucking zombie chi hey, Xiao Li Please help me order a Hermes bag for my mother-in-law and mother. I want to thank them for their love for me. Mom, this is my gift to you Thank you 17 Aunt Jiang 17, it's a fake bag for you. Fake, can't because of the real package you want to give to her family My mother Did you say that you deliberately sent real bags to your mother and fake products to your mother-in-law? This is the same bag I bought in the same store. Hey, I won't be fooled It's okay, 17 we all believe you I'll find someone to go to the bag store and set up a monitor. Let's find out. We don't have to go. After all I have done, I have never seen such a good mother-in-law as aunt. Jiang 17, what you did is really chilling. I, I just buy a bag mat So 17 won't be fooled. When the time comes, the hygiene in the store will also be hard for the nanny. Jiang Shiqin doesn't believe it. He can't get hold of you. 17 What are you looking? Oh. Didn't we have a physical examination together last time? I'm looking at the medical report Oh, you're busy Er, OK. Infertility Ginger 17 Can't Get Pregnant See how I clean you Mom. I bought a bag before and cheated. The gift was not delivered. I have specially prepared this set of Han's red waist 2.0 for you. I used it for a long time. The red wine is really good. Mom knows that this sign is all over your desk. I also prepared a gift for you This red agate ring handed down from our family just matches the color of Hu's waist. Thanks, mom. Uh-huh. And the longevity lock of red agate When you have children, you can bring my granddaughter Do you really want a granddaughter? Of course, I 've dreamed of a little granddaughter. Then you can't get what you want. Ginger period can not be born at all This is the medical examination form You set me up, aunt usually protect you But what about you But it's just a hen that can't lay eggs. Aunt I can give birth I'll give you a big fat boy. No, mom, don't give birth Mom. Hum You go Jiang 17, do you hear me Get out of this house. It's you. Get out. Repeatedly inciting the relationship between me and 17 There's no room for you in our family anymore. What, 17 can't have a baby? We will not be born It's not a big deal We can go to the South Pole to see the aurora Go to Egypt to see the pyramids The places he usually collects. We can all go together Mom, I'm not going 17 what? Because I'm pregnant It's really impossible Look, do you want to take a good look at this physical examination report Liu Chacha is that I can't give birth I was afraid you couldn't accept it. I want to find a good expert and tell you at the right time. And I checked the surveillance The bag on that day is the real bag you exchanged. It's in your room now, worth 80 stolen goods Go squat oranges You're all done Well, what am I doing Today, the young master of the wealthy Zhou family will come to my daughter's marriage. It's none of my business. Hurry to buy food to cook Mom. Zhou Tong, who came to present his marriage today, what does he look like? Whatever it looks like The Zhou family is a rich family. Your grandfather and his grandfather are young This doll has been set for a long time. Pro I'm going to marry a giant Mom. My life is too good You are my own, sure life is good Like earthy skins, born with bad luck. Master, aren't you against this baby kiss? How can you agree to go to the marriage I have a way to screw up this babykiss. Here comes the luxury car. Here comes Zhang Zhixin. Open the door for me. Hey mom, how is this a security guard Then don't you say it's a rich family Yeah. What's going on here? Auntie: Hello, I'm Zhou Tong I 've come to suggest Who is the doll's partner that grandpa ordered me? As far as I know, the Zhou family is a wealthy family. Hi The rich and powerful are all about the year of the monkey and the horse. I'm a security guard right now. Mom, if you don't marry a poor security guard, a toad wants to eat swan meat. Roll. Then you want to repent of your marriage No, she won't marry me. I'm just a security guard Do you really want to marry me As long as you can leave that home, you can live anywhere. Besides, we're still young Can work together sister Ha ha ha ha, great I finally escaped from the den Find a place to celebrate. This place is 3000 per capita. It's too expensive. The helper chef here is my hometown. Let's eat 100 alone. You're really good. Hey Sure enough, you have to rely on your friends to eat when you go out. Morning Why are you here ah ah ah I'm having dinner with my wife Are you doing something Ah. It's okay, it's okay, then you eat first. Aren't you security? How does he call you? Zhou always gave his identity when he went out. Men, who don't pretend to be proud Understood The two of us together make 10000 a month This money is not enough to spend Cousin still have to follow the members when they get married. There is not enough money to buy a set of skin care products in this season. Hey. Why don't we have a wedding Take back all the money you sent out. Small money fans, tell you the truth I 've been preparing for the wedding I 've arranged all the guests at the banquet. Although we get the license in a hurry But everything I have to give you better Maybe it's an engagement gift Why are there still two SK2 fairy water This is the latest little fox fairy water co-named with MK. How do you know I really want it? Wow, look at this little fox She seems to be meditating. It's so wonderful to see the world. Recently, I saw you stay up late every day, and your skin collapsed. I said I 'd give you food and drink It's just red during the day. With blue at night, day and night care Thank you husband. Love this gift The pickup A in the fairy water is amazing. It is the anti-aging essence of ak two number one Fine lines face collapse Give me a refund. I must be your beautiful bride. Uh-huh. But you can't spend any more money in the future. Give you money ah Don't call spending, call happiness Even if I have nothing But everything I have to give you better What's more, I'm actually the security captain Come on, I'll do it for you, yeah But I hear the fox brings good luck. You can look forward to it. You're so good to me. You are the letter The content of the opening poem The ending of the fairy tale is only taken for granted She hide what ah It's so worthless Tomorrow I'll take you to try on the wedding dress Wife, you look good You two poor wretches are really married My husband This is a villa and a luxury car, alas Jiang 17 is such a beautiful wedding dress, you also deserve it. Why doesn't she deserve it? I'll pay ten times the price for this wedding dress. I'm out of a good If he has money, let him buy a waiter to swipe his card. I'll take this wedding dress. I bought it at ten times the price. Gee, I'm just rich Jiang 17, take it off quickly I have to take it to the dry cleaning. Fuck you. Hello, here is the bill What 3 million, you steal money Your wedding dress is a value 300000 designed by the world's top designers. You say ten times bought it How is it possible that this designer only designs for top giants? How can you wear this wedding dress Because this gentleman is the young master of the Zhou family of the top giants. Didn't you say your family was broke That's what I despise you deliberately said. The black sheep dare to spend my 3 million to return the money. If you don't go to our court, you You're not a security guard, wife You're not mad at me for divorcing me, are you? Ha ha ha ha, how can You're so handsome, can marry you Even if I drive a luxury car and live in a luxury house, I am willing Mm-hmm The little fox can really bring good luck to people, eh ha Grandma, I'll think of my own marriage. Hello Where can I see table 6? Next week, the company's valuation will break 100 billion yuan. I'll definitely drop the job at hand and bring you back a granddaughter-in-law. Hum Love rat has a girlfriend and is still dating me. Who are you? Photo looks like a pig Why am I so handsome This is not table 6. This is table 9 I'm sorry, I mistook one for another Drink coffee and want to go This is all I added and I will compensate you. It's kind of interesting. I really mistook one for another Otherwise, a handsome guy like you How could I throw you I want to marry you too late It's not that I can't It's not dark yet The Civil Affairs Bureau is still closed. Let's go. Is this really my husband? The new president will be here soon. Everybody ready to meet Call the old lady and tell her I 've got my license Good president. You 've done your job. Come here quickly. President This is this time, what are you doing Zhou Our new president takes office today If anyone knows I bring my family to work I'm definitely gonna get fired Are you on the wall to knock me Uh-huh. I am, although we are now legally married. But it's not good for you I had a hunch you 'd be leaving work early today. So I came to pick you up Then your hunch is wrong Our new president takes office today, so it would be nice not to work overtime. I went to work first Practice is OK, wow Notify everyone to have a holiday in place. I'm telling you, you have a really amazing feeling. Our new president said to leave work two hours early. Let's take the bus to wait, get on the four Wow. This car is so beautiful Is it yours? I heard that Li Xian II is very popular with girls. You do seem to like it I turned on the seat heating early Go up and warm up 37 is here. This can also talk That's smart, huh Yeah. And you'll want to hang out and be too lazy to plan Let him help you make Dorsey Then I'll try my ideal classmate. I'm going to Beijing to recommend a three-day travel plan for me. This is a tailor-made for you Beijing 3 games six I have another function I just want you to, um, ideal The classmate said to help him open the queen seat Okay. This will help you adjust the queen seat Uh-huh. the seats are comfortable But you came to pick me up to rent such an expensive car Isn't it a bit too expensive? Uh-huh. I thought you weren't at work at this point. There should be no serious work Uh... What do you think of the new president you're taking on today? I haven't seen him yet I heard that he is quite handsome. He is not married yet. But they say he's not interested in girls. Ah, why, nothing It was the first time I heard someone say that about him. Wow, it's snowing Get out of the car and have a look. Hey, it's too cold outside You can also watch a key bed in the car. Once beautiful life for life Is this the first snow? It is said that people who watch the first snow together will be happy for a long time. It's beautiful life beautiful day Then you seem a little disappointed It's getting late, hurry home This person looks serious, still quite can pull ah ah ah That's it. The place you rent is too far from the company. Now that we're married Let's go shopping for a wedding room this weekend. Well, it's okay Our company's real estate can get a 15% discount on the internal price. I pay half the money I'm looking forward to it. There is also a convenient vegetable market in this community. Let's buy a 50-level one. Although a little small But let's plan it out it is quite good to live You're pretty good at living. That's necessary, the total price is 600000 Plus my employee discount Sexthe price ratio is still very high Jiang 17, I thought I was away from the good man I was looking. It looks good. Is the 50-square house occupied by people? Too lazy to take a reason you Let's sign a contract for this set. I'm the head of sales here I won't sell you the face of this house, will I 17. You can buy any house you want here. What you said is nothing Manager, recruit two poor wretch I'm busy to go first Zhou Zong How did you come You are General Zhu The salesman said that the house would not be sold to me. Zhou Zong The entire property company is yours whichever set you want You pack up your things and get out of here. You are the new president of our company, Mr. Zhou, madam All the houses here are yours You can pick a row You can also pick a whole building. I'm retiring as a chartered woman