Hello, Mr. Xiao Jiang. Today, the board of directors is electing Mingxi to take over as the CEO of our Minghua Group. If everyone has no objections, let's vote by a show of hands. Since everyone thinks so highly of me , I'll stop dreaming. Jiang Mingxi's subsidiary suffered a loss of 5,000 the year before last. Wan lost 80 million last year and let him be the CEO of Minghua Group. Are you afraid that the group will fail fast enough? Jiang Li, who let you in ? You are a nanny bastard. You are not worthy of appearing on the board of directors. Are you here to make money or are you here? Minghua Shopping Mall, which is a charity company , saw a 100% increase in turnover under my leadership the year before last and a 200% increase last year. Who should I support? Do you need me to say more? Jiang Li, pay attention to your own identity. If you are a servant, get out of here . Please support me in continuing to serve. Show of hands, CEO of Minghua Group, why are you appearing on the board of directors now? Jiang Tian, shouldn't you be going on a blind date with Mr. Wang at this time? Mr. Jiang, the blind date you are talking about is not just Jiang Mingxi drugging me and sending me to Go to Wang Shuo's room. Sister, you are too ignorant. That's the Wang family. Wang Shuo is 40 years old this year. He has been abused by three wives. I am so blessed to give you such a good blessing. Do you want a dad? Look at him. Have you had enough trouble? Dad. Our Jiang family has no heirs. Whichever of you two sires a child named Jiang will inherit the Jiang family . Grandpa, aren't you making things difficult for your sister? I'm already engaged , but Jiang Li is from a humble background and has given birth to two stillborn babies. Which man is willing to marry him? She, Jiang Li, what do you say? Grandpa, I can get married today. Mr. Jiang, there are several shop lease renewal contracts that you need to sign today. I want to get married today. What kind of wedding can you let it go ? Just die, dad, let me take a look at the child, even if it's a corpse, dad , sister, even the father doesn't know who the bastard is. If it dies, the body will have been burned long ago. You're fine, so you better pray. May the child not be reincarnated in the next life. Do n't ask too many questions. Help me spread some news. From now on, I will go on a blind date in the coffee shop downstairs of the company. The requirements are very simple. Miss Jiang, look at this boy, he is so nice. He has nothing. The disadvantage is that he is very poor, hahaha, that is, he is not very tall. He is standing while dating you and has not sat down yet. Hahahaha, Miss Jiang, this boy is very poor , but he cannot sit down to be a man. But he Now he has changed his ways , hahaha. He has been sitting here for 5 minutes. He has not done anything to the two of us. Miss Jiang, this boy is really good. He has no criminal record and no domestic violence. He is really very poor. I 'm not looking for a husband, I'm looking for a grandpa. What did you say? I didn't hear. Can you find me a normal person? Hahaha, oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh. From now on , you will be my boss, Jiang Sheng. Are you willing to marry me? What about my child? Mr. Lin, hahaha. Mr. Lin has gone to the toilet. How are you doing on the blind date ? Most of them come for my money. I don't like this kind of money worshiper. Who makes you the eldest young master of Chenglin Group who doesn't worship money these days? It's really hard to find , but that beautiful woman has been on a blind date for two hours today. We have been on a blind date for more than 10 times, but none of them have taken a liking to him. She doesn't worship money, but she only looks for poverty. If Xiao Yu hadn't been clamoring to find her mother, I wouldn't have come on a blind date. He's so beautiful. Hello sister, I seem to hear your son's voice. I heard it too. Beautiful sister, my name is Lin Zeyu. I am 5 years old this year. I am in preschool at Alice Kindergarten. Can I know your name? Hello, little Zeyu. My name is Jiang. Li , nice to meet you. Sister, are you on a blind date? Those men are not good . If you are willing to wait, I can marry you when you grow up . Hahaha, my brother and daddy said that if you flirt with girls casually, I will spank you. Hahaha, Lin Zeyu, you. My beautiful sister is running around again. This is my brother. You can marry him. Oh, your daddy is so unimportant. You can just find a stranger and get married. Anyway, I like my beautiful sister. If daddy doesn't marry, I will marry my beautiful sister. Lin Zeyu, I don't want you anymore. Believe it or not, what are you doing? Uncle, thank you for taking care of me over the years. I will live with my beautiful sister in the future . Lin Zeyu , Mr. Lin, you really can try it . Just in case it's a good fit. Please, brother. Please, brother. Hello, you are. Are you on a blind date? Xiaoyu likes it very much. You want me to talk to you. Hello. Nice to meet you , but you may not meet my conditions. It doesn't matter as long as you are poor. Dad, give me all your money and you will become a pauper. From now on, I Lin Zeyu, who will provide for you in your old age, you are such a filial son. What are you talking about, Miss Jiang? Can I take the liberty to ask? Why do you have to find a poor man? I have been deceived and hurt by rich people. I think men will become bad when they are rich. And it won't be too much trouble to get divorced after giving birth. Just give me some compensation. The women who went on blind dates before were basically here for money. Maybe she is indeed a suitable candidate. Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan went to Uncle Jing's place to sit for a while. Pretty sister , let's meet soon. If my child is still around, he should be this old. Hello, my name is Linlin Dajun. Actually, I am very poor. I think you must have a lot of money in this outfit. You rented it for a blind date. Then the Rolls-Royce at your door is also rented, so you are quite rich. That is my boss's car. I washed the car as soon as it was washed. Didn't I just deliver it to the boss after washing it? Your boss is also very approachable. Is n't it boring to wait for customers? Are you really a car washer ? Are you discriminating against my profession? If the car is dirty, please wash it for me. I can pay you 100. If you ask me to wash the car for you , do you think 100 is too little? Then 500, please Daddy . Okay, let me wash it off . Hahaha, what kind of sin did you suffer this time? Your CEO daddy also had to be reduced to car washing one day. Hahaha, car washing is just a test. He is really good, obedient and virtuous. Mr. Lin, I am very attracted to you. Are you willing to come with me today? After you get married, beautiful sister, you will be my mommy. Mommy, you two called me mommy so quickly. Thank you for your willingness to believe me . Well, Jiangli, what are you doing in front of the Civil Affairs Bureau? Are you really married ? This is Mr. Jiang. Why are you like this? What a coincidence. I met you here. What the hell did you do to call me Mr. Jiang ? Who is that man ? He doesn't know your identity. Could it be that you just married a random man on the street just to fool your grandpa ? It's none of your business. Ah, you don't have a car, you don't have a driver , and you brought two tow bottles with you. I almost forgot that you are a nanny. You are a bastard who only deserves to be married to a poor loser like this. If you dare to say a bad word about my family again , believe it or not, I will tear your mouth apart. Hey, you are the husband of my assistant. Your assistant is my assistant. Usually, he is responsible for serving me tea and water in the company. Today I am going to talk about a cooperation with Mr. Lin from Chenglin Group. You can come with me and get more people. Arrange more meetings and discuss cooperation with me. You drive for me and I'll give you 5,000. I've never seen so much money. This kind of person is his boss. Thank you Mr. Jiang for his kindness. He can go. You don't have to. Since we are both married, I can also call more. I've made money from several jobs . Thank you, Mr. Jiang. Come on . Come on, Xiaoyu , Xiaoxuan, get in the car . Auntie, we're going to make instant noodles for you. Why don't you call me auntie? Come on, come down. Damn it, you can't drive such a cheap car. Why can't you? Do you drive such a high-end car? A poor person like you basically has no chance to meet your aunt. Your car is too old. Do you know how much this car costs? I can't afford it even if you two sell it. I'm sorry. Mr. Jiang, your car is too high-end. I don't know how to drive it. Are you okay ? Shut up, Mr. Jiang. I'll let you see if it's okay. If you dare to say another word, I will tell you about your embezzlement of project fees. It's okay, come on , come on, come on, CEO, come on, come on, come on, CEO, it's such a big battle. It seems that Mr. Lin really values me . I have so many people to greet me . Haha, Jiang Lin, do you think you can beat me? Okay, okay, everyone, get up . I'm looking for your president to discuss cooperation. You take me to him. But what is our president Lin doing? But what ? But I am your president Lin's distinguished guest. Can you afford the consequences if we delay our cooperation talks ? I'll take you in right now. I really don't have any eyesight. I don't know how I managed to get into the establishment group. Temple , please wait a moment. The pick-up staff will be here soon . Ouch, my feet hurt. Assistant Jiang , come over and help me take a look . You are so beautiful. He doesn't want you. Come and see , Mr. Jiang, how is this possible? Let me show you that my wife doesn't have to do this job. It does n't matter. She is a worker. This family is nothing. Hahaha, go and make me a cup of coffee with 89 degree mineral water. Three points of sugar and five points of sugar. Go ahead and share the milk. Jiang Mingxi, hello. I'll be back in a minute. Jiang Yunxi, don't go too far. Wherever I go too far, I'll just call you your husband. What are you nervous about ? Do you know where this is? This is Chenglin Group 's largest enterprise in Shanghai . People lined up to get this opportunity, but I snatched it. Jiang Tian stole my project and gave it to you. It was originally my project , and my father also smoothed the relationship for me. I will be able to win this by then. I am the biggest of the Jiang family. I'm a hero and you're just waiting to be kicked out by me. Huh, Mr. Lin, Daddy , I can't say anything about the project I'm talking to over there. It's been a long time, Mr. Jing. I haven't seen him for a long time . Mr. Jing , it's impossible. You 're welcome. My newly recruited driver brings us tea and water. The president is really good at playing . Mr. Jin, we will not cooperate with our project, Miss Jiang. Why is the benefit far less than the cost? Your budget is also very problematic. We think you You are not professional at all at work , so we won't do this project. If you say you won't cooperate, you won't cooperate. Do you know how much Mr. Lin values me? A row of people are there to greet me. If you dare to offend me, Mr. Lin will blame you. Can you afford it? This is what our Mr. Lin means. You are unprofessional and like a clown. We, Cheng Lin, will not accept such cooperation. Please come back. I want to see Mr. Lin now. Please call him over. Please leave here , or I will I need to call security. Call security. You call security. You idiot, Jiang Mingxi. I have been preparing this project for almost a year. I can't let him ruin it for me like this . Security. Where is security? No one. Mr. Jiang, Mr. Jiang, Mr. Jiang, don't be angry first. Ah, calm down and have a sip of coffee . Hey, Mr. Jiang, here you are sensible. What did you put there? I'm sorry. Mr. Jiang accidentally squeezed the anti-wolf spray in when he brought you the coffee. You idiot, Miss Jiang, please. Come back, Jiali, please come out for this project. You have to be responsible for this project. Why should I be responsible? Jiang Tian just snatched away the project I had been working on for a whole year and gave it to you. Now that you messed up, let me clean up the mess for you. You just watch the company. In crisis, this project is my hard work and the future of the company. If you don't care about it, my father will not let you go. I'm morally kidnapped. It's a pity. I have no morals and I still hold a grudge. Jiang Li , tell me what you want to do with you. It's impossible to give me the project of the resort. It's a project worth hundreds of millions. Forget it. Don't leave. Don't leave. Don't come back. I 'll give it to you. It's almost enough. Cheng Zhu printed two copies of the contract with Cheng Lin Group. Send it over now. Are you satisfied with what I just made ? Mr. Lin . Are you satisfied with what I just made ? Mr. Lin. Haha. He means that you are always like this. I always give him coffee and he is polite to me. Haha. Haha , yes, yes, yes, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, you are always like this, it is too arrogant, hahaha, that, I plan to um, um, I won't do that, hahaha, you didn't have this accent just now, okay, okay, let 's go back, the kids are waiting in a hurry Wait a minute , Mr. Jing, I still hope you can give our company another chance. Director Jiang Mingxi does not represent the strength of our company. I have done a lot of research on this project before. As long as it can capture the hearts of young people, this project can definitely be done. I'm very confident, hahaha, then, is this project going to work or not ? Haha, Mr. Jin, I think this project is quite good. Which one are you playing? I have a lot of survey data in my hand . As long as Can you give me a chance? I believe I won't let you down . Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha That, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, is good, really good, let's sign the contract first , Okay, the company will send you the contract right away. Excuse me. I will send you the contract, Mr. Jiang . Mr. Jiang, hahaha. Sister Cheng, you are here. Thank you for your hard work. Come and take a quick seat. Director Jiang has left. Hahaha. Cooperate. Sister Cheng thought our director Jiang was still here. I called it wrong, right? Sister Cheng, ah, yes, hahaha, I called it wrong, hahaha. Sister Cheng is our assistant to the general manager. She can be responsible for signing the contract . I can do it. I am just a little assistant . Hahaha, of course I can , ah , King. Boss, contract , but I also have to ask our president to sign this contract. It doesn't require that Boss Jing has a high position. It's a small contract, 4,000. Dear , hahaha, Boss Jin is very happy to cooperate with you. Hahaha, then, Sister Chen. I'll see you off , hahaha, let's go first, Mr. Lin, what are you doing? You don't understand the love between husband and wife . Don't you think my wife is very talented? Hey, isn't this Jiang Mingxi's assistant? What a pity. Find a chance to poach him. Come here , Mr. Jiang, what are you doing? I'm married. My husband doesn't know my real identity. Don't let me know . Find the oldest and youngest one among all my properties. I want to bring them to move in. I 'm afraid it won't work. The smallest one in your property can't be used. It's also the 300-meter villa in Xinghe Courtyard. Is there any other way? For example, find one. I like Mommy, Mommy, Mommy . Hey, hey, hey, where do you live? There's something wrong with my house. Why don't you move in first? That 's over . Lin's name There are all villas in wealthy areas . Whichever one you go to will definitely reveal that you didn't rent a house. You were kicked out of the rented house because you couldn't pay the rent . So we are homeless. Daddy, we can take mommy on a cruise. Our family has How can a big cruise ship cost more than 400 million? Hahaha, how can my family afford a cruise ship? Uh-huh, he is talking about the toy model . Oh, yes, I have done sales at Xinghe Villa before. I have a boardroom like that. The key is not good if we move in secretly. It's okay. Let's go . Three months is enough to find a suitable girl. Ali, I heard from Xiaoxi that you were getting married, so I found a company like this. I heard that he was just You stinky car washer , even if you want to attract my attention, you don't have to find such a poor guy to torture yourself, right ? Hahaha Shen Xiangnan, open your dog eyes and see clearly that my husband is many times more handsome than you. In addition to a few of you, Why are you showing off your stinky money ? Jiang Li plays hard to get, but it's boring. Do you dare to say that you didn't marry him just to make me jealous and take the opportunity to win me back ? Hahaha, you are really putting money on your face , my husband . I heard Jiang Mingxi say that he is getting older in that area, but he regrets it. Hahaha, if it doesn't work in that area, you have to see a doctor early. Do you know who I am ? You are worthy of talking to me like this. Believe it or not, I will ask you to get out of Haishi tomorrow. He is threatening me . Don't go, don't go, don't go. I'm crazy. I'm not done . Get out of here. Don't make my husband unhappy. What kind of pretty boy are you so proud of? You don't even know his true identity. Hey , that's enough. Wife, please take care of the children first . Oh, if you have something to say, tell me quickly. I really don't. I can't bear to see you so self-destructive. I know you love me so much, but I'm engaged to Mingxi. You must be very sad. Can you please don't disgust me? You know clearly that your status is low and you are not worthy of me. What's the point of being so unreasonable? Although I I can't give you a title , but I can keep you. You want me to be your mistress? Why don't you pee and see if you are worthy? Don't be ungrateful. Lin Xi is in charge. You are a wild dog. You are the wild dog . Ah, bad guys, don't bully mommy's uneducated things. I, ah, ah, who do you think is uneducated? How dare you touch me, do you know who I am ? I am, ah, ah, ah, you stinky car washer, you're done, you can't even wash the car. If you can't beat me, what else can you do? You're so handsome. Wait for me sooner or later. I'll let you kneel down and beg me sooner or later. Wow, you're so tender. Wow, it's so big here, but it's a little deserted. I have a way . Daddy, Mommy, let's take pictures and plaster them all over this wall. Okay. Daddy, Mommy, come closer together and show your love. Oh no, there is no what to do. First the big star, then the little star. Hug me, hug me, give me a look , let me show you, you , you, it's not me who is being looked at , manager . Why are you nervous? Isn't it just to have children? He seems to be quite healthy. You should be quite capable . How to win a man quickly ? You have to take the initiative ! It's cold. Be careful of catching a cold . Are you not good? I'm not good. I'm not good. Where are the two children? You're not interested in me. That's not it. I think it's progressing too fast. Anyway, I want it. Let's get along. Come on, get married and have children. Come on , think about it carefully. We have two children now. If we have another one, can we afford it ? I will make a lot of money to raise children. Come on, hubby, I'm worried about you. It's too tiring to make money. Wait until I make some more money. Let's get another one, okay? Come on , you won't be long. Who was you that night? Where did you get this necklace? If it's really him, will the two children be the same? Damn it , this necklace is so expensive. Isn't it possible that someone would see through it? Talk to me. I bought two pieces for 9 yuan when I passed by a street stall two days ago. I bought them two days ago, right? It's been so long since Jiang Lin's incident. Why do n't you give up? The child is gone. It's gone. What's wrong with you? It's nothing. Well , I'm a little tired. Let's have a baby next time . Oh, thank you for letting me go. You mean you got the certificate, got married, lived together, and slept together, but what? We haven't done anything yet . What will Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan do if we have our own children in the future ? I think Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan still likes him. Maybe the two children will be very happy. Darlings, today we will focus on buying, buying, buying, whatever mommy is interested in. Let me play with you, okay . Mommy is so easy to walk . Hey , Xiao Chen, Xiao Chen, Da Chen, you are here too. This is my mommy. Hi, Mommy, where did you find your stepmother? Be careful, Snow White's stepmother is You are so bad that you almost poisoned Snow White. What are you doing, little kid? Take care of your children. Isn't it just to scare them? You are a stepmother, you can't tell what you are pretending to do. How can you abuse these two children behind your back? Your family is so poor and you have a vicious one. Your stepmother, is your stepmother willing to buy you such expensive toys and such expensive clothes? Joke, the whole shopping mall belongs to me, I can't afford this thing. Daddy, someone is bullying mommy. Come and make the baby. Come and get gold coins. Classmate Xiao Wang , you like to catch dolls. Yes , I like it the most. This is classmate Wang Dacheng who I caught with 20 coins. What's wrong with us being poor? I'll make you envious to the point of crying. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh so so so so!" We can catch 50 dolls with 50 game coins, right? Mom , I want 50 dolls too. Go and catch them for me. Mom, I'll catch them for you right away . Ah, ah, I want dolls. Are you playing with me? Are you playing with me ? I'm adjusting the machine. Do you know who I am? I want to see your boss. Is it because your skills are not good? What kind of mother are you? Others are catching so many dolls but you haven't caught any. If you can't catch any more, I won't want them. I'm sorry, my son. Mom is not good. What are you doing? Mom is the person who loves you the most in the world. How can you treat your mother like this? Without your mother , you are nothing. Minister, please stop being angry . Minister , you can't do that to your mother. Oh, auntie. Apologize , we gave all these dolls to your mother, I'm sorry , I pushed you. Does it still hurt? Son, mother, it doesn't hurt anymore. It's okay . Thank you, let's go . Husband, why are you here ? Diao Xiaoxuan said that you were bullied and I must come to protect you. You, um, hubby, it's so easy to answer the phone. Mr. Lin, our group is holding a banquet tonight at Yihua Hotel. Mr. Jiang is going to attend the banquet hosted by Chen Lin Group tonight. Don't forget Yihua Hotel, right? I remember, hahahaha. Haha , wife, I will take the children to participate in the interest class first and not go back for dinner . Then I will go to the vegetable market to buy some food for you and the children to make a late night snack . Yes, Mr. Lin welcomes you. Didn't he go to buy food? Why are you here? Oops, he also knows Jingchuan. Why does this person look so familiar? Daqing doesn't care. Let 's evacuate first. Hey, car, car, car, car , who is it ? Why did he run away? Mr. Jiang, Mr. Assistant Lin, just called and said to change. I need to go to another hotel. Why is Mr. Lin here so suddenly ? Isn't he taking his children to a hobby class here ? Mr. Zhang. Why is Mr. Zhang an acquaintance? Mr. Lin, where are you ? Mr. Jin, hello. See you. Over my Jiang? Hahahahahaha, why are you running here, how do you boo here, your colleague is outside, I just heard that someone speaks this house, it hurts, what's so anxious ? Not at all, okay, okay, okay , what are you carrying in your pocket? Real flowers to play with, real flowers to play with, no one is there. Didn't you say you would take your children to interest classes? Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan , a friend took me out for a party. Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan Didn't you go shopping for groceries when they took them away ? I didn't want to work with Jiang Mingxi. It just so happened that they were recruiting me for an interview. Hahaha , well, do your best. I'll withdraw first. Then you have a good party . Hahaha, I was so frightened that I almost revealed my secret. It scared me to death. Fortunately , it's a dream come true. Scroll Hey, Mr. Jin, please sit down, sit down, I'm sorry, everyone, I'm late. You , Mr. Jiang , are you okay ? Aren't you going to buy groceries? Why don't you call me Mr. Jiang? Jiang Mingxi is temporary. If something happened and he couldn't come, he called me and asked me to come in his place. They all thought I was Jiang Mingxi. Don't let it slip , oh, right? Didn't you say you were partying with friends? These are all your friends . Haha , actually, you don't have to hide mine . Now that you know Jiangli, let me tell you the truth. Actually, I just want to Can you make some extra money? Drinking with the boss without being embarrassed. I can understand it. Yes, hubby, you are really good, right? Not only for Xiaoyu and Xiaoxuan, but also for the children we will have in the future. You work so hard to make money. It's hard work , Mr. Jin . But kill him , ah, ah, did Jiang Mingxi come? Why did he come? Jiang Mingxi must have deliberately tricked me into coming here to see me make a fool of myself. Jiang Li, we were all invited by Mr. Lin today. Are you afraid of embarrassing him if you bring this pauper ? Haha, he was originally a bastard who was a nanny. He has long been used to being embarrassed. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm such a mouthful. How could I tell you your life experience in this situation? Hahaha, it doesn't matter . You're such a mouthy person. I have a little problem. My little problem is that my hands are slippery. Haha , isn't it just slippery? Haha, don't you know how important the resort project is? Do n't screw it up and come back crying and begging me , Jiang Li, don't know what to do , even if we can tolerate you. Is it difficult to ask Mr. Jing and Mr. Chen to tolerate you when you are looking for a woman outside ? I can do it. I have no problem. It's absolutely fine. If it's not Mr. Jing, you and I , then Mr. Chen can't tolerate you . That's right. Who is this person? Why is he with us? Ah, you can't be tolerant . Oh, this is Mr. Chen. It's best not to offend Mr. Chen, an important partner. Na Yi, you guys, what do you want? Mr. Lin invited us here, but if you want to play shooting, do you dare to play with me? Whoever loses will give it to the other party. Kneel down and shine your shoes . I, Brother Shen, am one of the best shooters in the industry. Just wait and kneel down. We, Mr. Lin, have something to do and the shooting is canceled today . I will give you a chance to regret it. If you regret it now, you still have time to smell the car wash. I don't know how high the sky is. You give it to me. Waiting for Nine Rings Nine Rings Nine Rings Nine Rings Nine Rings Director Jiang, why don't you fight ? Are you afraid of hitting someone else's target? Shut up, Jiang Li. Why hasn't that wild man you are looking for come yet? Could it be that he got scared and ran away? If you don't come today, you have to kneel down and shine my shoes for me. Are you handsome? You're so handsome. Husband, didn't you just change your clothes? You still have to be stepped on by me. Stop talking nonsense and start. 10 rings 10 rings 10 rings 3 shots 10 rings Wow Xie Nan You're amazing. It 's the first time I've seen someone hit 10 rings three times in a row. Hey, you stinky car wash guy, you're going to lose. You're afraid. I advise you to surrender now. You offended me last time and I won't let you go this time. Come on, do you want to try to hit 10 rings? Hahaha, I thought you really had the guts to compare with me, but it turns out you want to borrow Jiang Li's hand. You are really a softie. I rarely hit 10 rings. Trust me, adjust your breathing. Don't be nervous. The perfect score is 10.9 rings for 3 shots. It's great. You can hit all 10 rings in the army. It's impossible. I've been playing for so long and I haven't hit 10 rings once. You just hit 10 rings with 3 shots. Are your guns fake? Are you cheating ? Open your eyes and see clearly. I'm willing to admit defeat and kneel down. Don't go too far. Xiang Nan was just joking. Why don't you really ask him to kneel down and apologize? You are so vicious. He was the one who provoked you first. And the evil person complained first. You two are really a bad match. If you touch someone like you who doesn't keep his promise, I don't think Chen Ming Group will continue to cooperate with you. That's right, we Chenglin Group are not on peace. Cooperation between untrustworthy people has always been clear. You are too impulsive. Hurry up and bow and apologize. If your Shen Group does not want to cooperate with our Chenglin Group, you can leave now. I'm sorry , there is also this Lin Lin Dajun and this Lin Lin. Sir, what about your apology? Our Chenglin Group is neither short of money nor status , but we will not give a chance of cooperation to those who look down upon others. Mr. Lin Dajun, I'm sorry. That's nice. I won't bow and apologize to you. Shameless ginger. Li, what are you doing ? There's something wrong with you. Their game is over. Let's play a game too. I'll count to 3. Do you think I dare to shoot? Three 32. I'm sorry. Hahaha. Surprise. Hahaha . I had a great time playing today. Thank you all. We We are going home. Jiang Ni, why are you so happy? Of course you are happy. You didn't see the two of them looking deflated. But how did you fight for so long? Don't tell me. You haven't practiced. You haven't practiced. You can't fight for such a long time. What on earth are you doing? Who are you? Are you a special soldier? Five years later, the King of Soldiers returns to the Great Xia Empire. Have you watched too many TV series? I, uh, are all bosses I met at the car wash , and then showed me the world I have seen, horse riding, and golf. Ah, they all know it . Our Dajun knows so much. We take it out so much that we can go home with dignity . Manager, what's wrong? I'm here. Oops, I've lost a few days to have a baby. It 's great that I won't be seduced by Jiang Li this week. You two need to drink up all the milk. Feed mom . Miss, let's have some porridge. How is Ning Xi? I feel uncomfortable. I have never experienced such concern. Jiang Mingxi is pregnant. Jiang Li , you are so vicious. How dare you do this to Mingxi ? If you treat him, I will AHHH price Hahaha , you are so cruel to Mingxi for Minghua Group. She is pregnant. If she miscarries, you will be a murderer. Jiang Li, Mingxi is pregnant. Is there any movement in your belly? Just prove it without saying anything. Being pregnant means that Minghua Group does not belong to you at all. Even God has prevented you from getting pregnant. But if Minghua Group is handed over to Jiang Mingxi, Minghua Group will be useless. You can assist Mingxi. Madam, I am proud of Qin Qian, who is well-informed and sensible. Doing laundry and cooking at home makes me feel at ease. They both can coexist peacefully. Why can't you help Mingxi? It's so shameless. What did you say? I'm sorry, sir and madam. It's all my fault. I didn't explain it well to Jiang Li. Mom, I will explain Jiang Li's mother well. What are you talking about? Are you crazy? Let me go and take her away. You are crazy. Ali, Mom told you that we have been sorry for the eldest lady for so many years . From now on, don't argue with him. Okay, okay, I'm sorry for him. Ever since I was little, you've told me not to argue with him. Don't argue with him. I listen to you. Mom, but do I deserve to be bullied by him ? Why did he bully you? Aren't you living a good life ? I was lucky. If I was unlucky, I would have been pushed into the river and drowned by him when I was 8 years old. Mom, why have you never cared about me? Sometimes I really wonder if I am your biological child or not . We all know. I heard that the nanny and the madam were born with the same child. Oh, it's disgusting to think about it. A nanny dares to seduce the master just because of her beauty, thinking that she can replace the madam by giving birth to a child. Oh, that nanny gave birth to the child. It's also a daughter who commits crime. An illegitimate daughter will also be looked down upon by everyone in the future. She and the eldest lady live in the same sky and in the mud and have different lives with their father. From now on, you will be the eldest lady of the Jiang family. No one can step on you into the mud. It's impossible that what happened back then is only I know you are a white-eyed wolf. I have worked hard to raise you for so many years. What I am waiting for is for you to say such stupid things to me. I tell you that from now on, you can do whatever the eldest lady says. Just be obedient. Jiang Mingxin, if you want. Just listen , but don't try to kidnap me with you again . Stop, Jiang Li. Jiang Li, what's wrong with you? If you have any difficulties, we can solve it together. Daddy, you're useless. I've been married for so long and I can't even coax my mother. Who on earth made him angry? Emergency meeting. Emergency meeting. How can I make mommy happy? Buy mommy a big gem, buy a Ferrari, and give our family's big cruise ship to mommy. It's time for daddy to reveal his identity. Wow, who is this? He is so handsome . Wow , what do you want? I want to pick out some gifts for my wife. Which type do you want? Please choose several. This bracelet is a rare pure pink diamond. It costs 300,000 yuan . This ring is an award-winning design this year. 700,000 yuan. This is new. The necklace is limited to 2 million yuan , so wrap it up. Mr. Jiang, the sales performance of our mall this month has increased a lot compared to last month . And Mr. Jiang, why are you looking so bad ? Rich men don't have any good things. Do you think men have any? Is money bad or has it always been so bad? Hey, Mr. Zheng , isn't that your husband? Didn't you tell me that he was very poor ? Then why was he in the jewelry store? Didn't you give him money ? Then what was he doing here? Could it be that he was lying to you ? Money then dies , Mr. Zhang swiped the card , Lin Dajun, why are you here? Why are you here? You can't confess now. It's on TV. If you confess in a romantic place, mommy won't be angry. Did you go steal or rob ? Well , I, you Why are you robbing Lin Bijing? Is it Jing? I bought these things for Mr. Jing to give to his wife. And it's Mr. Jing. Why does he let you do everything? I'm going to work first. Hey, my wife, please slow down. Come early in the evening. Wrap everything up when you come back . Daddy and Mommy will definitely be a happy husband now. The more I think about it, the angrier I get. Rich men are not good things. It 's not enough for a rich man to have a wife. He also needs a lover . I also hope that my wife and lover can live in harmony with me. I really want to vomit. I will never marry a rich man in my life. Hahaha. Isn't this a bit too extreme? Wife, I tell you that rich men are very bad. I only like such poor men. Why are you dressed like this today? Handsome, are you going to give me a surprise? What's down here ? Oops, Mommy, I have a stomachache. I want to poop. Why is it so good? Suddenly, my stomach hurts. Let's go, Mommy, take you there . Oops, okay, daddy, I'll hide it for you. Check it out for me. What happened to the people you met today ? Who bullied you? Jiang Mingxi is pregnant. I have no chance. Jiang Mingxi is not pregnant. It's impossible. I called Jingchuan to check . Jiang Mingxi did go to the hospital , but it was found that she was not pregnant. Really, how did you know? I saw you were unhappy and thought he was bullying you again, so I investigated. Although I didn't get the test sheet , Jiang Mingxi is indeed not pregnant. If she is not pregnant , then I still have a chance. Husband, you are simply my lucky star . My aunt hasn't left yet. I really miss you today. Just you, hahaha, good night, aunt. It doesn't matter if it takes longer. Are you of any use? It's already been two months and I'm not pregnant yet . I've already lied to others about being pregnant by that smelly car wash guy. Didn't Jiang Li get pregnant? Is it a child? Master, I promise to make you conceive two nasty ones in one go tonight . Brother Ming, hide now. What am I hiding from? Lin Hua is here. It just so happens that Jiang Mingxi's family just bullied my wife yesterday. I have stopped cooperating with him . He taught me a lesson and cooperation is something that Madam finally negotiated. Aren't you afraid that Madam will lose her job? If she loses it, what can I do for a poor assistant? I have a lot of positions here for him to choose from. Anyway, this is my office. I won't leave or come. Who is your wife ? Who is Mrs. Lin hiding from me? Fuyong Ningning is here to find you. If you leave, who will support Mr. Lin ? When you leave, who will I seek to support? You can find someone to deal with it, not me. Who should I deal with? Haha, General Contractor, General Contractor, our Mr. Lin, he is in a hurry and wants to ask you to receive our important customers . Long time no see , Mr. Jing. Is Mr. Lin here? Today, this is our Mr. Fang , from our Chenglin Group. Chairman , what do you have to say to him? Hello, Mr. Fang. I'm sorry to waste your time. Of course. Mr. Fang, please take a look at this. This is our business plan for commercial real estate. This is the positioning of consumer groups. Then we expect to start the plan in April. I don't know what you think. Your idea is good. Just do what you said. That's great. Thank you Fang. You are the CEO of Minghua Group . I'm taking the liberty to ask you, do you have a boyfriend? Hahaha, I have a son who is not good at all, but he is just about 1.84 meters tall and has abdominal muscles. See, he still has abdominal muscles. I'm sorry, Mr. Fang. Actually, I've already made friends with Mr. Fang. I have an emergency call now that I need you to answer immediately . I'm sorry to excuse you. Feed your son . Come to the cafe next to the company. I have something to discuss with you right away. I'm sorry. Sorry for the long wait , Mr. Fang. Let's continue. According to the contract, we will pay you 80 million in advance for the first installment. Do you think it's okay? No problem. Hahaha. Uh , um. Sorry , Mr. Fang . I'm suddenly in a hurry. I have to go first. Let's go . Hey, hey, we still have something to discuss. Hey, wait a minute, wait, how about I give you one point? No, no, I really have to go. I'll give you one more point. Five, okay? Five, ah, I don't. Oops, I'm here. My stomach hurts. I have to go first. Mom, what's the matter with you coming to me in such a hurry? You're still in such a hurry, why don't you wait? The little girl just left. I originally wanted you two to meet. Who are you meeting ? The CEO of Minghua Group. The girl is eloquent, smart , and a good match for you. She is more than enough. I am worried that since you are not married and have two children, will he dislike you? Is the name of the president of Minghua Group Jiang Mingxi ? If his surname is Jiang , then that's him. Let me tell you, this man's character is not good. He's not a good person . It's impossible. Can I still lie to you? This man is vicious, arrogant and domineering. Last time, he asked your daughter-in-law to kneel down and take off his shoes. Damn, he's so bad. It doesn't look like he's a loser. Among them, I've stopped cooperating with him. I guess he 's here to beg for mercy today. Just don't talk to him. You just said your daughter-in-law , when did you get married ? I don't understand at all. I don't know why you kid didn't tell me. Mom, please calm down. I haven't had time to tell you yet. I didn't expect Mr. Jiang to be so bad. He actually bullied my family. I must treat him well next time I see him. Teach him a lesson. Mother is mighty, okay, okay, Mr. Zhang, good afternoon, Mr. Fang. I brought the documents for you to take a look at. You don't have to sit down. I won't see the documents. This is the end of the cooperation between Chenglin Company and you. Let's go. What are you doing? You haven't left yet , isn't it Mr. Fang? How can we say that we won't cooperate if we don't cooperate on such a big project ? Is there any misunderstanding between us? No, no. Are you not satisfied with the share? We can talk about this again. Please take a look first. File: I tell you the truth. I don't like to cooperate with people who have evil thoughts. Do you think I don't know? You often bully my daughter-in- law . Do you still want to make excuses? How is this possible? Needless to say, please leave. If you don't leave, I will call security. Okay, Mr. Fang, let me take the liberty to ask you one last time who your daughter-in-law is. I don't know who my daughter-in-law is. If you ask him, this is my son. I tell you that rich men are very bad. I like this kind of poverty. You are actually my son's friend. Auntie, okay , ha, that's great. Since we are all friends , please just give me another chance to resolve the misunderstanding between us, okay? I really didn't bully your daughter- in-law . Yes, yes, yes. Jiang Li is such a kind person. I know him too well . How could he bully others? No, you said, let's talk about it. That's great. Then you can read the document. Uh, here we are. Currently, Bian is paying you 5 million in advance. Five million are all friends. Uh, 4 million and 4 million are too little. You see, this, this, this is so good, it deserves a price reduction. You understand, you understand, hahaha. I mean, the writing is really good. Hahaha , come again, ah, let me come, oh, don't go crazy, that word is printed, OK, then it's 4 million. There's nothing wrong with the contract. You can sign it after it's been reviewed by the legal department. That's great. Go ahead and do it. Ouch, what's the relationship between the two of you? Well, aunt, this is my husband, ah , you are my daughter-in-law, I, I am you, it doesn't matter , ah, what are you doing here, haha, that aunt asked me to apply for the job , it's really great, aunt, then I can ask you what you plan to give me. What is your husband 's position? Is it a general manager? The annual salary is 80 million. Hahaha, auntie, you are so good at joking. How can my husband do that? What he is best at is washing cars. You ask him to wash your car. Haha, I like washing cars. I like washing my wife the most. Car wash aunt, you may not think that he is good at washing cars , but I feel sorry for the hard work of washing cars. How about you let him drive for you? As a driver, he can drive quite steadily and his salary does not need 80 million. 8,000 per month is good. 8,000 is great, haha. Thank you , auntie. Thank you , auntie . Then work hard. I'm going back to the company. Auntie, let's go slow when we see you next time. Yeah, okay. Hide it deep. I learned to wash cars in order to chase my wife. Ah ha , doesn't he know your true identity? Mom, aren't you afraid that it will be the same as before? You just came to our house, but the girls are very nice. Even an unemployed vagrant like you likes you. Are you planning to hide it from her all your life ? When are you going to confess? I want to confess , but people don't like rich people , they only like poor people. What if someone finds out and divorces me? There are also people who don't like rich people, hahaha. My wife is unusually fresh and refined. I like it. I also like the resort project. The current situation is like this. Tomorrow I will go to Xingchen Resort with Mr. Fang to inspect and study. When we come back, we will continue to promote Ali. It has done a good job and saved nearly 20 million. Minghua's future is left to you. I am very relieved , aren't you? Jiang God Oh, dad , yes, Jiang Li's project is really good, but Lin Xi seems to be pregnant, is that so? Yes, grandpa, dad , I remember you said before, whoever gets pregnant first can accept Minghua Group, right ? Yes, you are pregnant. Congratulations , congratulations, congratulations . Well, according to that, I will be an aunt in 7 months. As an aunt, I will definitely prepare a big gift for you. What should I do? How do I feel that Jiang Li knows that I am falsely pregnant? Will he tell grandpa? Go over there , as long as Jiang Li has nothing to fear. What are you crazy about? You don't care at all. When I was in the meeting, your eyes were almost fixed on him. Didn't you want to let him go? When did I say that I couldn't let him go? You just quarrel with me all day long. If you can't get pregnant, you can't get pregnant. Why don't you learn from Zeng Li and start a career? Now you think I can't compare to him, then go find him. You eat from the bowl and look at the pot. Damn scumbag, you are shameless. Well, I am shameless to ask you to go out and find a random man to give birth to you. What kind of good thing do you think you are ? You can't even compare to a hair of Jiang Li's. Jiang Yi, just wait for me . Please keep your voice down, Mom, I'm having a fake pregnancy now . What if they find out? My father and grandpa will hand over the group to Jiang Li. Jiang Li will definitely kick me out of the Jiang family after taking over. I don't even know what to do. Well, it's not easy. If we can't deal with him, let his own mother deal with his husband. I'm going to Xincheng Resort with Aunt Fang today to study and study. Thank you for your hard work. You're taking care of the children at home . Xiaoxuan Xiaoyu is at home and listen to your father. Bye, okay, mother . Slow down on the road, Lin Jun, come quickly. Leave the child to your father at Xincheng Resort. What's going on? Please take a look. This is our front garden design , which was specially designed by a master. Auntie, there has been a person following me and staring at me since the beginning. Look , I suspect that a pervert may be stalking me. Is he a neighbor? I didn't notice it. It's okay. Auntie , I have used Assistant Cheng to block him. If he is caught, I promise to give him a beating so that he will never dare to do it again . No need to stop . Hey, you still want to run. I'm going to stop. I want to see what this pervert like you looks like. Hey, hey, auntie, are you okay? I accidentally slipped. It's okay. It's okay. Let 's continue the visit. Damn it , pervert . It must be a fake marriage after not getting pregnant for so long . I must get him . Oops . Aunt Fang , are you okay? What's going on? I 'm sorry, I'm sorry , I didn't see you . I'm so sorry. Mr. Fang, are you okay? I'll take you to change clothes . That's because you're smart. Now Mr. Jiang will definitely buy the resort at a high price. You know you're offended. Who are you? You are so stupid. Let go of the star . Who is that yellow-faced woman? Come on , let's change clothes. Aunt Fang, please wait a moment. Clean clothes will be here soon. They haven't arrived yet. You have to wait for a while. Mrs. Jiang. What should I do if my partner catches a cold? This is the most important project of Minghua Group. I screwed up and my partner is still sick. If word gets out , what will others think of our Minghua Group ? Hahaha, you, the illegitimate daughter of a junior, still care about Minghua. Yeah, I've warned you a long time ago that your lowly status is not qualified to snatch Minghua's wife from Mingxi. Your clothes have arrived. You've already told me that your clothes haven't arrived yet, and you didn't hang them out on purpose. Why are you in such a hurry ? Let's change clothes. Who is this yellow-faced woman next to me ? Jiang Lin is just a small executive of Chenglin Group to please him. Jiang Lin is like a licking dog . When he sees anyone in Chenglin Group, he will nod and bow and wag his tail. Hahaha, I have never seen him like this. Overbearing woman, if it weren't for your sake, I really don't want to cooperate with Minghua. Aunt Fang , I'm really sorry. What did you apologize for ? It's not your fault. Come on, Mrs. Fang, you use that dressing room, Miss Jiang, you use this one. Good, Ali, we will see each other. The more I think about it , the angrier I get . Can't just forget it. Shen Xiangnan was just you, Ah Li, and your husband made it impossible for you to get pregnant. I'm here to help you, Jiang Li. The one I love is always just you, Ah Li, husband. You 've given me another chance and you still dare to come looking for death. Ah Li, go ahead and leave it to me. You're done. This time you're on my territory. You're done. Haha, I've tolerated you for a long time. Now that Ali is gone , it's time to let you go. Know my true identity. My true identity, aren't you just a stinky car wash guy? Haha, a tiger can turn into a golden turtle . Haha , who are you? What are you doing? Put me down . Do you know who I am? Put me down. Why haven't you been home yet? Come on, Mrs. Jiang, Shen Xiangnan was also arranged and designed by you. If you hate Jiang Tian for cheating , you should deal with him. His conspiracy against the juniors only shows that you are incompetent and cowardly. What are you talking about ? Shen Xiangnan, you are a bastard who deserves to talk to me like this. Stop, stop, Shufen. Dad Xia Mingxi , what's wrong with us? Grandpa, you have completely embarrassed me. Minhua is my friend for many years. How dare you treat him like this? Who is Minhua? Minhua is the director of two major groups, Chenglin Group and Fangyu Group. You guys are ignorant of the truth. He is actually Mr. Lin's mother of Chenglin Group. Why don't you apologize quickly ? Mr. Fang, I'm sorry for our poor hospitality. We really didn't mean it. Ali, do you want to forgive him? They haven't. Apologize to me . How can I forgive them? Jiang Li, I 'm sorry Ahri. Oh, you worked hard for the resort. Everyone remembers your contribution. It was all a misunderstanding before. Hey, you can pretend to be so disgusting. Who are you? Let go of you and take me to the city. What are you going to do? Let go , little hell. Who gave you the courage to do this to me? This is the Chenglin Group. Are you crazy? What you did is Lin Jun's personal affairs. You don't know the heights of the world. You are not afraid that Lin Jun will kill you? Really? I am Lin Jun. I want to know how I can kill myself . Hahahaha, you are so poor. You dare to pretend to be Mr. Lin and invite so many extras to support you. How much does he pay you for a day? Hahahahaha, the real Mr. Lin is coming soon. Let 's see how long you can pretend. Mr. Lin, this is the information you asked me to collect. Mr. Lin , he is, he is the president of Chenglin Group, Lin Jun . It can't be you. The eye is blind. Mr. Lin was magnanimous last time and let you go. This time, just wait for the Shen family to go bankrupt . Mr. Lin, Mr. Lin, I was wrong. Mr. Lin, I was blind. You, sir, don't remember the faults of villains. Mr. Lin, you. Here are all the evidences of your Shen family's black box bidding, bribery, and bribery. Let your dad turn himself in . Mr. Lin, Mr. Lin, I'm wrong, Mr. Lin, my dad will go to jail. Mr. Lin, I'm wrong, I'm wrong, I'm wrong, Mr. Lin, you can't put us there. Pushing the road to a dead end, Mr. Lin, you should have thought of this when you and Jiang Mingxi bullied my wife. Take him and Wenjie to the police station together . Mr. Lin, Mr. Lin, I am wrong. Mr. Lin, Mr. Lin does not want Mr. Lin, Mr. Lin, I am. It's really wrong, Mr. Lin, please don't, Mr. Lin, Mr. once this scourge of Shen Xiangnan is eliminated, my Ahri can feel at ease and go home to be with my wife. Come on, do your best, good partner , haha , I have a wife, it's great , it's great, it's not good. After her aunt finished, I went to see Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan. Hey, hubby, don't leave. Let's play some couple games to enhance our relationship. What kind of game? Let's play a lottery game. The notes in it have many options , such as washing dishes, cooking once a week, and sweeping the floor once a week. What a hug for a week, anyway, whatever you draw, you have to do whatever you want. This game is fun. I called Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan to play together. Hey, let's go, let's go. Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan has already fallen asleep. Let's just play with the two of us today. Let's call you next time. They can play together as long as they don't let me wash the dishes. Go to bed with my lover. Oh my God, you got this one . What kind of luck is this? Is it God's will ? Didn't I get another one? Didn't you say there was only one? Hey, what's the matter? What's going on ? Isn't this all these? Oh, it's so annoying . You want it now, but I don't want it. You go and sleep with Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan. Hey, ah, ah, ah, what do you think I want to do? You want this too , brother and dad. Mommy, I dreamed about a big monster. I'm so scared . Haha. No, no, no. Dad will take you back to sleep, okay? Let 's go . Haha, Mr. Lin . Is this an invitation for Minghua Group's brand cooperation investment ? Should I ask Mr. Fang to attend for you? No need for you. Just go and take me with you to see my wife. Oh, I miss my wife. You are so tired of falling in love when you are so young. My wife is so cute . Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to today's investment fair. I am Jiang, the current executive president of Minghua Group. Min , I heard you right. Ladies and gentlemen welcome to our conference. The president of Minghua is beautiful. She is beautiful and capable. It's a pity that she is already married and has no chance. Jiang Min , the current president of Minghua Group, Jiang Li , I will never let you become Minghua Group. The heir , leader, leader , leader , look, you are President Jiang Li, he is also President, you two are a match made in heaven , then why would he lie to me ? Why would he hate rich people? Jiang Mingxi is you again. What are you doing here? Jiang Li is Ming. What is your relationship with the current president of Hua Group? You pretty boy, do you think you are going to get rich ? Jiang Mingxi, do you know who you are talking to? This is me. I don't care who he is. Now that you have discovered it, I will tell you that I and Jiang Li is both a candidate to inherit the Minghua Group. Whoever gives birth to the child first among us will inherit the Minghua Group. Do you think he really loves you? He is just a tool for Jiang Li to have children. Come on, you are going to have a child when you get married, Zhang Mingxi. I'm pregnant and I don't have a chance. I really want to say goodbye to you today. It turns out that this is how the tool man makes delicious food for my husband and babies. Mr. Jiang, husband , husband , you, this is Mr. Jiang. It turns out that you are the president of Minghua Group. You all know it. Husband, please listen to me explain to you. You don't need to explain to me. It turns out that I am just a tool for you to have children. You have disappointed me so much. This is not the case. Husband , please don't call me husband mommy again . Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan , Mr. Zhang, Daddy, mommy, come closer. Compare your feelings together I 'm so anxious that I go out and I'll rub it for you. He's so good. How could I do that to him? I'm just a tool for giving birth. Jiang Li, this stupid woman, doesn't have a heart. Daddy, mommy likes you. You are tall and handsome. You have good genes. What's wrong with mommy being fascinated by you ? It's superficial. What I like about him is not his appearance. What is it that daddy likes about mommy? Of course it's all of them. Daddy and mommy want to have a child like the two of us. What's wrong with such a cute and well-behaved cute baby ? Hahaha, he likes you two and he's not my daddy, he's a stingy guy and he's jealous of us. Humph, I'm sorry, where are you? Can we meet? It's mommy. Are you coaxing daddy? Daddy , I want to go to the resort to play . Come and take us to play. Anyway, I'm not in the mood for work. Let's go. I don't need to be hugged. I'm an adult now. So follow me, mommy. We're in the resort. Come on. Come on, Mommy , we are at the resort, come on, my dear, Mr. Jiang, we have a meeting later, so cancel it all. But if there are too many meetings today, we may lose a 10 million order. How can a meeting be as important as my husband? Hey, hey. Hey, I have to go to work. I have to eat dog food at work. My husband and dad are better than the two of you. Come and hold hands. I'm sorry , but I really don't treat you as a tool. Can you give me another chance? Don't call me husband again. Then what should I call you ? My dear Oppa, you came just in time. This is not the marriage I want. Let's get divorced. Divorce is not allowed . Arjun , I like you. You have lied to me before. How can I trust you? Let me go . Wait a minute . Let's leave it to fate, okay? If the last leaf of this leaf is not divorced, we won't divorce. Are you serious ? Wait a minute, give me another chance. Divorce, divorce, divorce, divorce , divorce , divorce. If you see no fate, let us not divorce. Really. I am naive and will not give up on saving our marriage. Let me think about it carefully. Let's go. Daddy, mommy doesn't know that you are the president of Chen Lin Group and you lied to her. Hey, Mr. Jiang, there is an auction tonight. Please help me arrange it. Ah, this pair of rings is said to be the masterpiece of a master from the 19th century. Anyone who gets it can live together forever. Oh, Mr. Jiang, have you reconciled? Don't you want to use the ring to coax them? Hey, they will be reconciled soon. Hum, the next item will be forever. The starting price of the heart of love is 6 million. I want to take this ring. This ring means growing old together. I always hope he can forgive me. 8 million . Why does this sound sound familiar? 10 million. Someone snatched 15 million. 18 million. I want to compete with me. 30 million is crazy. Ah, this ring is not worth 30 million at all. Who is it that keeps raising the price to 35 million? 50 million. Congratulations to this gentleman for buying the heart of eternal love for 50 million. I want to see who is the scapegoat who has been robbing him from me. How could he do that? Mr. Lin, the ring you took here is here . Madam will definitely like it very much . Mr. Lin , Mr. Fang, came to you and said that he wanted to talk about Chenglin Group's establishment of overseas branches. Great branch Dajun turned out to be the director of Chengming Group. Sir , do you think he has been lying to me? Why did he lie to me ? Are you going to live like this for the rest of your life like a stray dog? Can you get out of here? Don't you understand? Don't fucking watch my joke here. Get out of here. Think carefully about who it is. It wasn't me who turned you into this, it was Jiang Li. Don't mention those bitches to me. Shen Xiangnan. You still have a chance to turn over. It depends on whether you are willing to become Ali. Shen Xiangnan. What are you doing here? I have something to say to you. I have nothing to say to you. You said , get out of the way and don't block my car or I'll call the police. Don't you want to know the whereabouts of your two children? What did you say that your two children were not dead 5 years ago? I know where they are. How did you know about my two children? I'm sorry about the whereabouts of the child . Ali , I gave you the drug. You have been in love with me for a long time , but you didn't let me touch you, so I was confused for a moment. It's impossible that person was you that night . Ali, it was me who let Jiang Mingxi take care of you. The child was stolen out and I lied to you that the child was dead. I don't believe you. Take me to see the child so that he can get in the car. Ah Li, I know I have done many wrong things before , but the child is innocent. Their only wish now is that our family can be reunited. It's impossible . I can't trust you. I'm going to do a paternity test . I won't be here. I'll use a doctor I know at an institution I know. As long as you can rest assured, whatever you do, you can meet me. I have something I want to confess to you. What happened? Why don't you reply to me? News, Jiang Li, don't you want to save our marriage? Answer the phone. If they are really my children , what should I, Lin Jun, Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan and the others do? Mr. Jiang, this is what Dr. Chen asked me to hand over to you. It's really me. How is your child ? What disease is he getting? How is he doing? Please tell me quickly, Ali, please calm down. The hospital only has half an hour of visiting time every day. Tomorrow I will send you all the medical records. But now the top priority is for you to ask for it. Divorce first. I can't marry you. My children hope that our family can be reunited. You have to think about your children. Even if you don't marry me, you have to divorce me first. Let me think about it again. Ali, if you hadn't thought about it. Thoughtfully asked the biological mother to exchange the child's samples in advance . Jiang Li will definitely not believe it so easily. But Jiang Li doesn't want to marry you. Don't worry. Those two children are his worry. He will definitely divorce Jiang Li. Why are you, Mr. Lin Junlin ? It turns out that you are the leader of the Chenglin Group. Jiang Li, listen to me and explain to you. Let's get a divorce. What? I said let's get a divorce. You have been lying to me for so long . You are on guard against me , afraid that I will lie. Your money? Is it because of this that you want to divorce me ? Then your purpose of marrying me is pure? It just so happens that since we were never honest from the beginning, our marriage itself is a false beginning. We should end our divorce as soon as possible. Well, didn't you say you like me? No, . Okay , then get a divorce. Mr. Lin will help me check who Jiang Li has met recently and what happened . He can't leave me for no reason. Ah Li, come out and let's talk. Let 's talk. Why did you call my mother over? Ah Li, actually, my mother has known about this for a long time. I don't think it's that complicated. You can just divorce and marry Xiang Lan. You can also get married. This is just a show. You must sign before marriage. A prenuptial agreement will be divorced immediately after the child recovers from the illness. An insincere marriage like this will be noticed by the children. Do you want the children to live in this kind of lie? That's right, can the children rest in peace and recuperate? No, I said you, you too. You are a mother, why are you so selfish? Let me tell you, I have the final say on this matter today. The agreement cannot be signed and a normal marriage is made. Whose mother are you ? I am not doing this for you, okay? I said to you, are you out of your mind? You gave up your own children instead of raising you to raise two bastards. Mom, you turned against you. Do you think that Lin really loves you ? He really wants to marry you. He just wants to trouble you. I think it's the same today. There's no need to talk. Chen Xianglan , since you don't want to settle peacefully, let's meet in court. Wait , wait, hubby , you still know that I am your wife. We are going to divorce soon. If you have difficulties, why don't you come to me and we can solve it together? It's you Shen Xiangnan again. It seems that your father's imprisonment has not made you honest. Who do you think you are? Jiang Li and I have had physical intimacy before, hahaha , and we have given birth to two children. You are a beast, right? Who is Jiangnan Zhang Xiangnan? You teamed up with the nurse to commit fraud, fabricated perjury , and caused a medical accident. According to the criminal law, he is punishable by imprisonment of not less than three years but not more than seven years. The paternity test is fake. The paternity test is fake. Where are my two children? Are they still alive ? Or ? Ah, Mr. Lin Jiang Li, I was wrong . I don't dare to do it anymore . Mr. Lin, I was just confused for a moment. Please let me go. Mr. Lin, thank you, comrade police. Take me away. Thank you, Ahri. I was wrong. Ahri, my father is already in jail. I can't do it anymore. Ahri is a scumbag . I curse your whole family to sit in jail. How do you know the paternity test is fake? Don't underestimate the connections and power of the Cheng Lin Group. We found the biological mother of the child. She is the nurse who handed you the test report. Shen Xiangnan agreed to pay. He only agreed to cooperate with Shen Xiangnan for all the subsequent treatment expenses of the child. It's over. This Lin Jun is so powerful. If what happened back then is found out, won't it be over for me? Thank you, husband . Oh, I haven't introduced it to you yet. This is my mother. I 'm sorry that I haven't visited you before. It's my negligence. My mother wishes you a happy marriage. I still have something to do and I'll leave first. Your mother doesn't seem to be satisfied with me. I just want to be satisfied with you. Husband , husband, husband, husband , I will do the same in the future. I never want to let go of your hand. Well, do you know how much I miss you? Wow, wait a minute , where did you get this necklace? I bought it for 9 yuan and 9 pieces when I passed by a street stall two days ago. You are Mr. Lin . This necklace is real. The only one in the country. It's so good. What kind of atmosphere are you ruining? That person was you 5 years ago. Well , I'm pregnant. I'm finally pregnant. It seems that saving money is still useful. Yuhua Group It's mine, everything is mine, aunt and mom. I recently went to the hospital for a pregnancy test. The doctor said that the baby in my belly is very healthy. It will be mine soon . Oh, Missy, it's great. Come on, come on, sit, sit, sit. Grandpa is about to have his great-grandson. Hahaha Jiang Li, I am really pregnant. Why are you fighting with me for Jiangli? What is going on? Grandpa, Mrs. Jiang, let me formally introduce to you. These are my children. This is My husband, Jiang Li , I think you want to inherit the Minghua Group. Are you crazy? You two bastards have the nerve to bring this bastard from the Jiang family to be a stepmother outside. You still have the face. Grandpa , this is me and Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan. The 100% fidelity paternity test certificate done by a tertiary hospital can prove that Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan is my own biological child 5 years ago. I am not like some people . Oh, the fake paternity test certificate named Shen Xiangnan has been caught. I don't dare to do such illegal things like getting up and going to jail . Shen Xiangnan is in jail. How come I don't know how my child's father can be a labor reform prisoner ? Hahaha , Grandpa Zeng, good, Grandpa Zeng, eat sweets. Oh, good, thank you, Grandpa Zeng, good. Grandpa Zeng, I gave you these sunglasses. For you , we are a cool family. Wow, let's see , oh cool, hahaha, okay, okay. Grandpa is so happy . I have a family full of children and grandchildren so soon. Hahaha. I just got pregnant. This bitch brought back a pair of children . You are winning at the starting line. You are riding a rocket to catch up with me. I just want to find a cat or a dog and give birth to a child. I want to be the heir of the Minghua Group. I really don't know how high the world is. I am so shameless. I am a poor car wash guy who wants to join with two children. Cheng Minghua Group thinks you want to be rich. Are you crazy? Please reintroduce yourselves to Lin Jun, Chairman of Chenglin Group. It's impossible for you to think who you are. How dare you pretend to be the chairman of Chenglin Group ? Just say that you are the chairman with a broken business card. Who are you trying to fool? Grandpa Jiang , you and my mother Fang Minhua are close friends. According to common sense, Jiang Li and I should come and visit as soon as we get married . My oversight was that who is Min Hua? Min Hua is the chairman of two major groups, Cheng Lin Group and Fang Yu Group. It turns out to be Min Hua's son. I saw you when I was a child, haha. Now you have grown so big . Hahaha, you are here for real . The 5 villas in Xinghe Courtyard and the real estate certificate of your Minghua Group Building are used as Jiang Li's betrothal gift. I hope grandpa will accept that the office building rented by our group also belongs to their family. Hahaha, among people, the proud son of heaven, look at me. What a good son-in-law , he is so outstanding. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on. As long as I treat Jiang Li well, Jiang Li, Jiang Li, can your husband be the chairman of the founding group ? Why should I control your marriage and be a prisoner? Why are you really pregnant? Why are you willing to admit that losing or losing means losing? What about you? How can you be so incompetent? I no longer have the right to inherit. I don't want this child. I'm crazy. The child is innocent. Ning Xi and your father's blood type are both type O. How can you be type AB? Mingxi is type AB. Qin Qian is also type AB. I am type O. The hospital must have made a mistake. How could the hospital make a mistake? Jiang Ning , what is your blood type ? I am type O. On that day, you and Qin Qian were born on the same day. Did the hospital make a mistake on me ? It's not wrong, Mom and Dad , I am your biological daughter. You can't let go of me. Madam, she is well-educated and sensible. She is my pride. Qin Qian washes and cooks at home to make me feel at ease. Mrs. Jiang , Shen Xiangnan, was also arranged and designed by you . If you hate Jiang Tian's cheating, you should go there. Stopping him from playing tricks on the younger generation only shows that you are incompetent and cowardly. What are you talking about ? Shen Xiangnan , you are a bastard. You are worthy of talking to me like this . I don't believe you can continue to be Jiang Mingxi's parents. I don't want you to embarrass Jiang Li like this. Let's wait for the paternity test results to come out. I don't want you to regret it in the future. Can we talk about it? Yes, I want to see you, but I can't come empty-handed. I just brought something. Look at this. It's a gold bracelet. This is it. An emerald , this is a ruby, and Mrs. Jiang, these are never what I want. I know , I know you have never lacked these , but what can I do to compensate you? I 'm sorry, Ali, I 'm really sorry, I really don't. I know that I have done so many things to hurt you and made you suffer so much under my eyes. I'm sorry. Can you give me a chance? I am willing to spend the rest of my life to compensate you. Can you try to accept me as your mother? I will do it right away. There's a wedding coming up. If you're free, you can accompany me to choose a wedding dress. My daughter must be the most beautiful bride. It's okay. Wow, what should I wear? You all have this look on your face, because mommy looks so beautiful in everything she wears, and daddy does the same. I think it's right. Come on , Mr. Lin, it's time to try on the dress. Please come with me . If you tighten the waist a little, she will be even more beautiful. Don't cry. Jiang Mingxi and Qin Qian were both kicked out of the house. Shen Xiangnan was also arrested, but my mother thinks it's better. I'm sorry for you , but my mother still thinks I'm sorry for you. You haven't done anything to me all these years. You are a victim just like me. Besides, I am living so happily now, right? Xiaoyu Xiaoxuan is grandma. Don't cry Xiaoyu Xiao Xuan , let's go try on the dress. Mr. Jiang and Mr. Lin have also changed into the dress. I'm stunned. It's so handsome , but it seems that there's still something missing. What 's wrong with this?