(inspirational music) - What's up everybody, it's Enes here. Welcome to another episode. This week, we're in the of New York city and about to tour this 78th floor penthouse, right in front of me with these Now, stats on this penthouse, we've got five bedrooms, five full baths, two half baths, approximately 6,127 square And this property is currently marketed as an off-market listing for $40 million. As always, we will leave more down in the description. And before we start our tour, I want to thank the listing agent Leonard Steinberg and his another one of their amazing listings. Now let's begin. (gentle music) Hi everyone, here we are at the entry. This penthouse is located private residences at 30 Park Place. This building was also developed by the legendary Larry Silverstein. It's a fully service building And we're gonna talk later in the video. Also, like we mentioned at this is a 78th floor meticulously remodeled And it starts off right We have beautiful wood-paneled And as soon as we walk in, we're hit head on with the We have two French doors bringing And this is where we have the living room. On this side, we have the gas fireplace with this curved marble wall that runs up all the way to the ceiling. I really like that they have on each side of the fireplace allowing natural light to And I really like these French doors with sidelights and transom windows above. Also, we have this Let's go check it out. As soon as you walk out, you Views from this penthouse I mean, from New Jersey, the Hudson River, the entire city all the way you see it all. And it's incredible to have an Now on that side, we have with a little bit of a dining setup. Right here we have more Also, we have this around the perimeter of this terrace, which in return blocks the wind, makes this space more enjoyable, and gives it an extra safety feature. Overall, it's amazing on 78th floor with these amazing views. We also have two story height here. Juliet balcony right in the We're gonna show that in a bit. And this building has an iconic look on the exterior with We can get a close up from here. Now let's go back inside. Now we're back at the living room area. Overall, it's an amazing space. This is the second French door And we have these steel-cased barn doors that opens up to this It's both great for seating and dining. You have a beautiful chandelier above, and North and West-facing views that are simply amazing from this room. Also, we have automatic shades as you guys can see. Now let's continue our tour. We have secondary barn doors but in case you need that we also have these pocket Now let's go toward the office. Same wood paneling that is also brought in here with A bit of a seating area. This is where we have the desk set up. And I mean, the views from Right on this side, on the West side, we can see the One World Trade Center. And if you get to the edge of this window, you can actually see all the Overall amazing office, and I mean, we toured a lot of incredible And if I had to choose one, I would definitely go with this one because these views are simply inspiring. Now, there's actually a hallway here. I wanna mention it. I'll show it from the other side. TV setup on this side. And this secondary door opens up to a little hallway where we have a small fridge setup. And as we continue, this is both for the living areas and the office. I really like this textured stone design that they have on the walls at the bottom and at the top. Cool ceiling lighting. And I really like the LED lighting also behind this floating mirror design as well fabricated stone vented design overall, gorgeous bathroom Now let's go back to the hallway. I showed that first door in the office. Well, it opens up right Now let's continue our tour. This hallway continues. We have a coat closet here and we are back at the Now let's go to the other side. Let me show it from this side. Another set of Steelcase of the unit where we up to the second floor and the grand dining area. We get a ton of natural light coming in. Same terrazo floors are with the warmth of these wood panels. Mikey, let's get a close up. I wanna show this detail. This penthouse actually (elevator closing) That goes up to the second floor. There you go, which is amazing. And right behind us, we First off. I really like that they also did the glass as Also here allowing On this channel, we also see a lot of floating steel staircase designs but this one stands out. First of all, it has an industrial touch. I really like it. It's an open riser with the It's just something different. And I really like how this with the industrial looks. - Yeah, I really like how also gives you a little bit grip and warms the railing too when it's cold. - Yeah, I agree. - I really like that detail as well. And Mikey, let's show this. Look at that window frame right there. And as you come up or go down from the second floor, you see the entire city. Which is amazing. - Yeah, there's a lot but that is one of the best frames that we see in the entire house. - I feel like every single room we walk in we're gonna talk about the views. It's hard not to. Now let's cover the dining area. We have a beautiful chandelier above that looks like a That's sits six people. I love how minimalist the and of course we get the and Mikey let's get a close-up. You can actually see from here as well, East river. I mean, even from your dining area you get incredible views. - Yeah, that's really, really nice. - I know these views are Now let's continue our tour. We have this pivot door right here. Mikey, let's get a close up. With this metal finish This door is definitely, definitely heavy. All right, now more views. We have these built-in Let me show you guys these glass railings. And I really like the texture More built-ins, but a little And this is where we have the kitchen and the informal dining area. This kitchen is simply stunning. I love the natural stone countertops. All the millwork. Let's start with the island setup. Of course we have the perfectly bookmatched with Island seating on both sides. And the island set up We have the pantry right here opening up and as we continue, this is dishwasher on this side. Beautiful countertops, same countertops, also as a backsplash. Mikey, we've got to show this detail. Let's get a close up right here. Not only we have the outlets recessed in, they're are also bookmatched That's simply amazing. Talking about attention to detail, right? And we have this beautiful millwork. Another detail that we these exposed hinges as well. That gives a lot of character, and the glass cabinetry we saw earlier. They use it as uppers over here with the LED lighting as well. Continuing here, Gaggenau appliances. We have the ovens here, your wine fridge and it actually opens up the hallway here. We're gonna talk about that later. As we continue more cabinetry, gas cooktop your oven set up below, and we have the commercial vent above, same natural stone countertops. Also used as a backsplash Again, like I mentioned earlier I love those exposed hinge designs. We can get a closer look - Yeah, I got to say coming from LA like I thought that we in homes and kitchens were, but we've seen some and this has to be one of This stone is really, really cool. I thought we had seen it all, - It's a different level. It's amazing how they Every detail is so thought out. Everything is finished perfectly. I'm just as impressed as you are with this kitchen and the All right, let's continue our tour. We have the panel fridge Take a look at the cabinetry here, Mikey. - Is that like a pantry - It's amazing how well of space, right? And secondary sink here. Let's not forget the secondary dishwasher your Island set up continues. I'm must say I love this natural stone that they use. It looks gorgeous. At this point, let's give credit to the interior designer of this penthouse, Monique Gibson. I think she did a phenomenal her finishes, selection Everything looks gorgeous. - Yeah, it's really incredible. So interior designers like stones marble, that kind of thing. - Lay out everything. - Yeah, she did a fantastic job. - She did a fantastic job. Also, I'm just realizing Mikey, let's get a close up on that chandelier. It looks gorgeous that light fixture. - Yeah, I really like that. - Now the entire penthouse Of course, this side of the penthouse, we get the East River, Woolworth building, One It's amazing. And on this side we have running along the wall, dining table here. Let's get a close up on this light fixture, - Yeah, I saw that earlier. I really, really like that. And this whole seating area, I would just love to sit down and just relax and read a book with that - I know, just enjoy Also while I was walking here to show this I realized another detail, Look how the beautifully recessed and the outlet and even That's amazing. That's amazing. We have the TV set up on this side. Let's follow this hallway, right here. We get a powder room with And I really like how they to the walls with steel frame and the floating mirror design. And they used the same steel for the stone vanity overall Continuing our tour. We are in the laundry room stacked washer and dryer on We get the sink right here on this side and this store opens up to all that good stuff. (door closes) Lastly, as we go this way this is where we have a secondary hallway with lots of built-ins. And this is where we can to the kitchen as well. Like I mentioned earlier We're back at the Now let's go upstairs and (gentle music continues) All right, everyone. Before I come up to the check out these incredible views. I feel like I'm running out of adjectives. To me, these views are Imagine going down to the first floor looking at these views or going up to the second floor, just simply amazing. Now we have the plaster walls also here. Beautiful chandelier, right in the center. And here we are at the Now on my left hand side, we have the primary bedroom suite on my right-hand side, we have four spacious guest suites. So let's go this way. This one is the first as a media room. We have the seating area on this side, TV position right here, paneled wood back walls. And are you seeing that detail Mikey? The recess and speakers on each side?. - Yeah, I love my sleek speaker designs. - Well, there you go. You have one right here. We have these walls concepts and there's actually another detail I would like to point out. So I'm pretty sure I forgot to mention it on the first floor. We have this baseboard design. On the bottom, we have this metal trim. So we have the baseboard floating up. This is actually plastic. This is not a baseboard. Although it looks like a pure baseboard but I wanted to mention it because this is the first time we're seeing a detail like this. - Yeah, I had no idea. - It's a unique one. Now, we get a wet bar over here. Little fridge set up, glass shelves. And as we continue on but before we do that, let's check out this full bathroom. Like I mentioned, this So we get the full marble walk-in showers, beautiful marble mosaic floors, the vanity set up, Now let's go. You ready, Mikey? - It's scary. - 79th floor. We have this Juliet balcony and, look at these incredible views. This is simply amazing. - Yeah, I'm just gonna go ahead and step over here a little bit. - Oh, that's scary.(laughs) - It's a little bit scary. - It's amazing. I wouldn't mind watching TV here looking at this view. overall, it's a great room and let's go back to the So we have this secondary door here opening up to this side of the penthouse. (elevator opening) Your elevator access on the 79th floor. So this is your secondary exterior door. And as we continue, we have This actually the kids We get a secondary wet bar backsplash fridge, microwave right here. And this door opens up Same marble timeless designs are also here with the marble mosaic tiles. Then it is set up with marble countertops and also marble walls. Continuing into this tub set up right here with chrome fixtures. Now let's go back. And right here we had kind of have hangout space for the kids. I love all the built-ins. We have the TV setup with the This space is just really cute overall - Yeah, I really like it. And I really like how into the next room. We'll see those in a - Yeah, that's right. Actually, let's go in. This is the first bedroom Mikey, can we show the view? Kid's room looks straight into It's just amazing. - That mean the views, any way you look in this I can't imagine having a room like this as a kid though. - We have this last space with this really cute bedside up on top. And of course this is New York. Every bit of space counts. Even your stairs have little drawers. - I don't know why people - I know, right? Makes no sense. I mean, it's such a wasted space. Now, second bedroom on this Again, very charming. We have the high ceilings chandelier above built-in closets. Amazing views, what can I say? Now, third bedroom, by the way we also have Stack washer and dryer on this one. This one also has a That's set up on this side gets a full bathroom, which is right here. Same kind of finishes that we with the marble floors, marble shower sill with timeless clay, subway Overall, we have three with their own hangout Now let's go back to the hallway and toward the primary bedroom. (walking on the floor) By the way, this is where And this is where you On the second floor. This door opens up to the First door in front of us opens up to the one of the two closets Where you get a bit of a with an office set up, everything is nicely paneled in with these mirrored with a chandelier above Amazing news continue. - Yeah, I love the patina - It's a unique curtain actually. Mikey, let's get a close up. They actually also have it here as well. - It looks really cool. Now going in here, we have the Marble floors, marble walls, Then a design on this side like we saw at the kitchen cabinetry beautiful countertops We had the medicine cabinet here, also reading, eating in this bathroom, which is nice and cozy. On this side, we have Of course we get the Also, we have this gorgeous as we continue water closet here. And this door opens up We have marble from the floors all the way to the ceilings with these and the rain head. Overall gorgeous bathroom. Now let's go back to the hallway. And right here, we have up to the primary bedroom. Come on in. We have the bed situated on this side with wood-paneled back walls. Mikey, let's focus towards love these automatic shades. - Yeah, and these are blackout - Exactly. So just imagine at night, going to the bed looking at this view or in the morning, hitting the button and bring up the shades and starting your day. - Yeah, one thing that I we rarely see it, but actually put a little cavity so no light can slip through right here. - It's a true seal. - Yeah, exactly. I agree, I agree. Attention to detail, right? And I mean your views, We are looking down on It's simply amazing. The whole day, I feel like I but they're just amazing. All right, let's continue our tour. So primary bedroom continues. We have the secondary building closet set up on this side. Before we cover this section let's go in here. Now the second bathroom here, again marble finishes are also in here and the vanity set up Madison cabinet and this massive walk-in shower in here with the timeless chrome fixtures Lastly, we have the with the drawer set up on this side, more built-ins here and, gym space for the primary bedroom. Overall, amazing primary bedroom suite and what a great penthouse. Now, why don't we go downstairs and meet Leonard Steinberg who's the listing agent of this property, ask him a few questions about the building and (gentle music continues) Hi, everyone. So we have Leonard here, who's the listing agent of this property. Leonard, we just finished our tour and the place looks stunning. The finishes are incredible and the views are just So, first thing I wanted to ask you, is obviously, this is a four You got the management, got the views. It's incredible. But from your perspective what makes this building so special? - Well, I think it is a level of quality from the front door, the sidewalk, all the way to the roof, And I think the type of to this price point and building and space they want everything and they want everything to be perfect. So not only are the finishes beautiful but you have amenities and services here that are par none. - Got it. And how about the views? Obviously we're on 78 floor and you mentioned to me earlier that surrounding buildings are quite low and this part of the Manhattan you only get views like this - What's unusual about this building is that even though you're on a high floor in many parts of the world, when you're on a high floor you don't necessarily get because you are surrounded - True. - This is an unusual building in that, from this point upwards to Midtown are mostly lower lying buildings. So as you stand North, there's a protected that rise all the way from all the way up into Midtown where they get up to 100 stories. But this provides this dramatic exposure, the likes of which you cannot replicate anywhere in Manhattan. - We experienced it all day and I totally agree with you. The views are simply breathtaking. Another thing I wanted to mention. So when I did a little bit I realized units were completed in 2016 but this particular apartment I know we mentioned it in the video, doesn't look like any of the units. Obviously it's been So can you tell us a little bit, the story behind that? - This is one of the very best And of course that to commit to buying in this building many months, I think if not years before the building was delivered. So they picked out the specific unit of which there's only one and more importantly while Robert A.M. Stern their expectations for finish out were vastly superior to that. So they basically gutted And I think the value to whomever is the next owner of this apartment is that you're buying into a multi-year, that's turnkey ready. So you don't have to do anything. And we've learned time is Here, you have the ultimate luxury not only a spectacular apartment in a spectacular building, in one of the greatest but you have the luxury of time. - I agree, I agree. Well, thank you so much This been an amazing but we would like to stay so we can see this place at dusk. - Please make yourself at home and remember it's for sale. (gentle music continues) - Right, everyone, that's it for the tour. And I hope everybody enjoyed the video. We have so much fun touring this place and enjoying these views today. And for that, I wanna Leonard Steinberg and his team for allowing us to tour another one of their amazing listings. If you enjoyed this video, make sure to give us a like. If you have any questions or input as always leave us a comment down below. If you haven't already, make sure to subscribe to our channel. As always, we will leave the down in the description and we'll see you guys, next week. (gentle music continues)