December 31, 1939. The icy skies over pilot Ilmari Juutilainen's Fokker D.XXI sliced underpowered, and built of wood and to build more than a couple hundred of them. Ahead of him, a Soviet Polikarpov and heavily armed. On paper, the As Juutilainen moved into the Soviet pilot suddenly pulled use the I-16's superior speed to circle But Juutilainen was no ordinary pilot. In a sharply into the cloud cover and swiftly matter what Juutilainen had to fly; he was a born Ilmari "Illu" Juutilainen's story begins in the Growing up by the Laatokka Sea, young Juutilainen hometown. His love for the skies grew through Defence Association, developing the discipline In 1932, Juutilainen began his national service always on the skies. Earning his pilot's license Air Force and underwent rigorous training at the His first posting in 1937 was at LeLv Air Base in 1938 to train in fighter tactics. By 1939, the storm of war was on the horizon. On March 3, Juutilainen was transferred to for what was to come. In October, his squadron The Winter War was about to begin. The sky over Finland rumbled with the distant With Finnish ice in his veins, Juutilainen sat in the cockpit of his The Winter War pitted the Finnish Air army. Superior in numbers and technology, more heavily armed bombers, and Juutilainen's Fokker was slower lacking the agility and armor of his opponents. A crackle over the radio interrupted his thoughts -- three Soviet Ilyushin Juutilainen's eyes narrowed as he instinctively racing towards the enemy. His heart adrenaline flooding his veins. He climbed to 1,500 The Soviets were oblivious to the danger With sweaty palms and singular focus, tighter. The DB-3s were directly below him now, their bellies heavy with bombs intended The Soviet bombers, realizing they were the forests below and turned to flee. But though slower, had the advantage of He lined up the first bomber, squeezing the the tracers lighting up the dark sky as He shifted his aim to the engines, the round. The bomber shuddered under the As the first bomber began to nosedive, flames The other two bombers were already in their fuselages. He stayed on them, hammering Satisfied with the chaos he had unleashed, he peeled away and turned for home. The On New Year's Eve, 1939, Juutilainen it was a duel between fighters -- man against man, machine against machine. The Soviet pilot, flying They circled each other like wolves, both through the cold sky at low altitude. The Juutilainen knew that the Polikarpov was inching But he was not one to panic. At the last second, Juutilainen cloud cover. He disappeared into sight of him. But Juutilainen was Inside the cloud, he reversed his turn, locked onto the Soviet fighter He lined up the I-16 in his gunsight, the distance between them closing rapidly -- He fired. The burst hit its mark, Smoke poured from the Polikarpov control. The Soviet aircraft nosed over and With the enemy vanquished, his heart still pounding By the end of the Winter War, Ilmari confirmed victories -- one shared But the Soviets were not ready to give up. In April 1940, Springtime had arrived, and so did new aircraft for the Finnish Air Juutilainen felt the surge of power beneath him as he climbed into the cockpit of the The sleek aircraft was about to radically alter well-armed with three 12.7 millimeter and armored around the pilot's seat, the the skies. With over four hours of endurance, July 21, 1941. The battlefield above Soviet fighters from the 65th ShAP below. Juutilainen and five other Finnish engines bursting with energy as As they approached the battlefield, Juutilainen's senses grew razor Then he spotted it -- a Polikarpov I-153 &quot;Chaika,&quot; darting through the With a sudden thrust of the throttle, His finger hovered over the trigger for Buffalo's machine guns flashed, tracers slicing The Chaika tried to break away, but ripped through its fuselage, and with a final spiraling down to the earth. Another victory On the crisp morning of February 6, 1942, the sky over the Petrovskiy-Jam Juutilainen, alongside his fellow LLv 24 pilots, Suddenly, out of the icy blue horizon, flanked by an escort of twelve MiG-3 fighters. Recalling the action of that "I noticed the bombers at 3,000 meters, and Soviet aircraft, I spotted a formation of three after them. Targeting the aircraft to the left of The odds were staggering, but Juutilainen's With unwavering focus, he dove into the "The SB crashed next to the railway line. Just as fighter closing in on me. In spite of the threat in the starboard engine, which poured out smoke to the right and plunged into the forest close to which was above me, I managed to shoot In a blaze of precision and skill, two of the Soviet bombers crumbled under [QUOTE] "My aim was good and the smoke from the engine. He banked away to By March 27, 1942, war had The Finnish Army was preparing for an offensive on was stationed at Immola, The situation was grim; they were outnumbered experience the Soviets lacked. As for On March 28, Juutilainen and a fellow sergeant when they spotted them: a formation of The enemy was right where they wanted them. the attack, his Brewster screaming as it the Chaikas and let his machine guns loose, the A burst of smoke erupted from the Soviet plane Chaika lurched, its engine spewing flames Soviet fighter met the same fate, Juutilainen's September 20, 1942. Juutilainen soared Karhunen and the rest of 3/LeLv 24. Their As they approached their target, ten Soviet But Juutilainen was ready. His dodging enemy fire. He lined up his sights on He fired -- his tracers slashed through the Gulf. Another Soviet plane followed, falling By the end of the dogfight, three Soviet Against overwhelming odds, he had proving that in the skies, Ilmari The question was, how lethal could February 1943. The Finnish skies were darker now, filled with the thunderous growl But Juutilainen was ready for them. His squadron had just received the sleek, The timing couldn't have been better. The but the Soviets were flying better planes The Bf 109 was a powerful machine -- a predator and agility, it was the perfect tool for a and soon, the Soviet pilots would In his Messerschmitt, Juutilainen victory after victory, adding 58 On June 30, 1944, he made history by shooting victory was confirmed by Soviet loss records, pilots in the war. It was a feat that made him an The war was nearing its end, but Every sortie was a battle of wits and skill, became another mark on his growing list of enemy and unmatched precision made him the September 3, 1944. Juutilainen soared above the Karelian Isthmus in his Suddenly, a Soviet Li-2 appeared the Russian version of the Douglas his eyes focused on the target. With a It was his 94th victory. His final triumph. By the end of the war in 1944, Ilmari Finland's highest-scoring non-German He earned 94 confirmed air-to-air victories, Juutilainen was one of only four double making him a &quot;double knight,&quot; a rare It wasn't just victories that defined he chose to remain in the cockpit, Regarding the fighting spirit of his homeland, "If you threaten Finns, they do not become frightened - they