New York is a water-scarce city. Despite being surrounded on all sides by waterways of America, the landscape upon which it was water. To Manhattan's east, there's the East not a river. It's a tidal estuary, connecting one portion pull undrinkable, unusable salt water through. The Hudson River, to the west, does use the river--but by the time it arrives on the ocean estuary. As the tides rise, seawater pushes in against The river only becomes usable freshwater somewhere depending on season and conditions. That's to say, the waterways that surround and Long the islands they are, are useless them. It's a perpetual irony--this location, navigable rivers, attracted more individuals but that very location is the origin of its Strip away the skyscrapers of today, the brownstones ago, and you have a lumpy, forested island Stretching across what are now four blocks below the ground, it was called Collect Pond. Some of the area's earliest indigenous villages earliest European fortifications, but centuries in, tanneries, breweries, and other water-hungry lots. For the burgeoning city, this proved problematic source made that same source unusable--the and so were the people. Wells were dug, but the situation was the gritty streets was hardly fit for human consumption. And beyond that, Manhattan was small, and to supply the growing population, let alone New York City could no longer be self-sufficient. It needed the help of the mainland. If one were to hop in a car near the old Collect George Washington Bridge into New Jersey, north again on Interstate 87, and exit at for two to three hours, covered 100 miles, limits, they'd find themself within the probably not the one you've heard of. This is the Ashokan Reservoir, one of the of New York City infrastructure. Here, in an area that receives some forty has stashed an impressive stockpile of water reservoirs. These six reservoirs have a staggering 460 capacity and catch the drainage of some 1,600 Catskill mountain landscape. And yet, while the size is extraordinary, of essential to the city, it just doesn't In fact, what's so spectacular about these are. There are no massive treatment facilities, super structures--just a few large reservoirs and some quiet upstate hamlets. This is by design. In fact, this simplicity is the system's actually requires quite a lot of coordination. Of the billions of gallons that pass through the Delaware/Catskill system the largest unfiltered This distinction is a point of pride, but In order to meet stringent national standards York City must monitor, protect, and prove water. Fortunately, the means for such heavy oversight that green-lit the Catskill-Delaware project Along with the reservoirs, the New York legislature of Environmental Protection to oversee city land use in the watershed so long as they system. Effectively, since 1905, New York City has did with their land and put in the water--hence from the city. Today, to both ensure they meet quality standards DEP staffs a 200-officer police department even helicopter while maintaining a detective But it takes more than a few cops patrolling water is safe enough for millions. For this, the DEP employs nearly 1,000 scientists, to run daily tests in the reservoirs and their and communities to limit dangerous pollutants Everyday, robotic buoys spread across the turbidity, while labs run test after test While a tour of New York City's adopted landscape, these waters and the woods around and teeming with DEP employees. But that pristine, clean water is of little It has to actually get to the city. Now, transporting one gallon of water 120 What is is transporting the sheer quantity Every minute, the city consumes roughly an gallons or 2,500,000 liters. If one were to transport that quantity by for a minute of consumption. Of course, that's not the solution. What is are two of the longest and largest The first is called the Catskill Aqueduct--a capable of moving some half billion gallons to the south. At the time of its opening, this aqueduct only by marvels like the Panama and Suez canals. It was something that superpowers would boast But New York didn't stop there--two decades metropolis needed yet more supply. So, it built one, single, continuous 85 mile, This was an inconceivable step forward--before just 29 miles or 47 kilometers. This was over three times longer, and still the title of the world's longest. It enters the earth here--beneath the dam immediately plunges some 1,000 feet or 300 of New York City. You see, while most think of aqueducts as slanting slightly downward, modern aqueducts There are myriad insurmountable obstacles City, so building a consistently downhill differential between the reservoirs and city at this scale. Conveniently, however, they didn't have The Delaware Aqueduct essentially operates Now, the physics behind how siphons work is theories, but what matters is that liquid, its source elevation, regardless of the path That's to say, water will flow upward, against of the tube sits below the input. Therefore, it's rather useful that the Delaware sits some 545 feet or 166 meters higher than The tunnel constantly changes elevation, avoiding passes through the bedrock below the Hudson It then rises again to connect with the West again before reaching its final destination, work, no outside forces are needed for the an entirely physics-driven transportation This aqueduct is incredibly efficient and Nearly half a century ago, officials identified the Hudson. Spilling tens of millions of gallons per day, and, counterintuitively, contaminated their Authorities have been mitigating and managing to relocate away from the impacted area, but Doing so required two decades of planning, a billion dollars in bills. A 2.5 mile, 4 kilometer diversion tunnel was late 2023, the Aqueduct will shut down for the five-to-eight-month process of connecting The shutdown is planned for winter, when water work has gone into assuring the Catskill Aqueduct minor water sources, like the Croton Aqueduct, With essentially two big pipes supplying nearly York's water supply is uncharacteristically worst case scenario, but it's what's necessary where it falls to here: the Kensico Reservoir. While sampling up until this point gives DEP this is the first point where they act on This process begins at the exit tunnels of Here, chlorine is first added to kill off Because chlorine levels dissipate over distance into the water at nearby Hillview Reservoir Island, again at the Richmond Chlorination Along with chlorine, the DEP also adds fluoride lead leakage from pipes, and sodium hydroxide Some additives are introduced to the system accordance to real time water quality issues. In 2005, for example, when upper watershed DEP added the chemical compound alum to the lower particle level. Beyond additives, the DEP further fortifies Ultraviolet Water Treatment Plant. Capable of treating nearly 2.3 billion gallons this facility is the biggest of its kind in another layer of defense against waterborne But not all of New York's water goes through the pristine, protected Catskills. The other 10% of New York's water is still its supply sibling, Croton water requires Buried here below a golf course, air is added to the surface for skimming before the same UV process is employed to turn what entered Effectively, the plant functions as a $3.2 Catskill/Delaware system by producing, at of potable water a day. New York's water supply is defined by billion the longest or largest of their kind in the and fickle stage may well be in final delivery. Once beyond Hillview reservoir, treated water miles away won't see the light of day until Conveyed by tunnel, and pushed along by system Three tunnels supply some nine million people More accurately, these tunnels get close enough nearly 7,000 miles or 11,000 kilometers of its nine million customers; filling the city's the taps in its pizzerias. While these very tunnels and the mains that to bloom into a true megacity across the twentieth down. Tunnel number 1 was activated in 1917, number in need of inspection and likely repair. As for the lines connected to the tunnels, only experienced five breaks per 100 miles, per hundred, it still reportedly costs around busted pipes; a process made infinitely more underground infrastructure--power cables Additionally, because of the age and varying block, the DEP has spread 965 water testing samples each day and run over 34,000 tests Delivery expenses don't end there either. While operational, tunnel number 3 is still project broke ground in 1970. Sitting 600 feet or 180 meters below ground, the tunnel's been called one of the most be the city's single largest capital project, completion in 2026. New York is revered for its water: locals it's the key factor behind the city's purportedly But the defining factor of the system behind It lets nature do the work of gathering and physics to transport it to the city. Counterintuitively, however, this level of Smaller, cash-strapped cities have not historically to protect their watersheds and build massive them with more marginal sources that today But beyond the money, New York City had foresight--the growth, and success all revolved around the getting good water. If you want to dive deeper into the physics Aqueduct work, then I'd recommend you give There are plenty of places where you can go Brilliant. They focus on learning by doing--you're then answer multiple choice questions. Rather, they guide you through interactive or gravitational physics or computational intuitively as you go. It really is a better way to learn, whether up on what you learned years ago, or add to Personally, I've always had a really tough Physics, they were by far my weakest subjects technique has me finally understanding things There's really nothing more satisfying than that possible, especially since the first will get 20% off the annual premium subscription. You'll also be helping support the channel or head over to Brilliant.org/Wendover today.