All good things must come to an end. And so did the Pax Romana, a 200-year-long Empire at its most glorious and most powerful. It started with the formation of the empire Marcus Aurelius, the last of the so-called Marcus Aurelius earned the sobriquet "The the concept devised by Plato of a ruler who ideas he learned in his exercise of power. Marcus Aurelius was a Stoic who believed that Despite this, his reign as emperor was far During his rule, Rome had to contend with that ravaged his empire. Early Years &amp; Rise to Power Marcus Aurelius was born on April 26, 121 Lucilla. His name at birth may have also been Marcus and great-grandfather but, to avoid confusion, the start. His family was wealthy and relatively influential. According to Cassius Dio, one of our main his family was somehow related to Emperor Aurelius's father was a politician who held Marcus was just a child. We're not sure on the exact date, but it still in office. Later, Marcus Aurelius wrote that, while he what little memory he had of him plus what father by "modesty and manliness," traits As far as his mother was concerned, Aurelius piety, generosity, not only refraining from in diet, and to be far removed from the ways After his father's death, Marcus Aurelius were adopted by their paternal grandfather, patrician during the reign of Vespasian. His father had been a praetor and his grandfather it was expected for Marcus Aurelius to follow In 127 AD, when he was just six years old, nomination of Emperor Hadrian himself. Other than that, we do not have much information apart from the names of some of his teachers Later on, he was also tutored by Apollonius Stoicism, the philosophy that deeply influenced The story of Marcus Aurelius's rise to power there. He was born during the reign of Hadrian, who Therefore, when the emperor fell ill in 136 appoint an heir. He adopted Lucius Ceionius Commodus who, as However, this turned out to be an ill-fated AD. Next up, Hadrian adopted Antoninus Pius as year after Hadrian died on July 10. As it happened, Antoninus was also Marcus his father's sister. Hadrian's adoption of Antoninus came with In turn, Antoninus had to adopt the surviving also named Lucius Ceionius Commodus, as well All of a sudden, Aurelius was the eldest son in line for the throne. Some historians have speculated that this although why the emperor granted so much favor Anyway, Antoninus was now the new Roman Emperor adopted son, he also had Marcus Aurelius marry The two of them would go on to have 13 children Unsurprisingly, Marcus Aurelius's position new promotions. He was first made consul in 140. He also became the head of the equestrian he took up residence in the imperial palace, and oration that were needed to rule Rome. The highest office he reached while Antoninus At one point, he also changed his name to will keep referring to him simply as Marcus Meanwhile, his adopted brother took on the serving both as quaestor and consul. One notable difference between them was their Marcus Aurelius was "frail in body," as man of younger years" who was proficient in all athletic pursuits. Around 160 AD, Antoninus fell ill. He died the following year at his ancestral reign of the Roman Empire after that of Augustus. A few days later, he was deified at the request In his book, Marcus Aurelius spoke very fondly man had more influence on him as a youth. "The king is dead, long live the king," Antoninus was gone and Rome needed an emperor. The Senate was ready to confirm Marcus Aurelius happened. Marcus Aurelius refused to take office unless co-emperor alongside him. It was unusual, but the Senate accepted and the Roman Empire was ruled by two men. That being said, it was never in question Besides the fact that Marcus Aurelius was he had experience helping Antoninus run the of Pontifex Maximus. Verus obeyed Marcus "as a lieutenant obeys You might think this is a setup for some kind down the line. That's usually how these situations unfolded exception. Despite their different personalities, the of their joint rule and never did one of them The War in Parthia You might think that the rule of a calm, practical, for the Roman Empire, but that was not to In fact, almost for his entire 19-year reign, or another. First up was the Parthian Empire, a mighty since the 3rd century BC. This was not the first time that these two It seemed that every time the Parthians wanted into the dominion of Rome. This usually took the form of the Kingdom between the two empires who both wanted to best interests. The last time this happened was during the on Biographics. If you need a quick refresher on him, why That happened almost 50 years before Marcus became a client state of Rome with its king It seems that every few decades, a new Parthian from under Roman influence and place it under In this case, it was King Vologases IV. In 161 AD, he marched into Armenia and deposed son, Pacorus. The Romans were clearly taken by surprise There were two Roman provinces that bordered Marcus Sedatius Severianus, the Governor of own hands, even though he was not supposed Allegedly, an oracle convinced him that he legion and marched into Armenia. He reached Elegeia where his entire army was As for Severianus himself, he was either killed once he realized how badly he had been defeated. Seizing the upper hand, the Parthians then as well. The first wave of the war went decidedly in like things were going to get better for the They were led by two emperors who were completely They also had threats to deal with in other Superior. Moreover, the defeat and subsequent retreat conditions for a rebellion. Eventually, Marcus Aurelius decided that Lucius against Parthia. If anyone was expecting Verus to be a great, did away with that notion. As it turned out, Verus was the type of leader let others do the fighting for him. Allegedly, he spent most of the Parthian campaign gambled daily, surrounded by his entourage. As it said in the Historia Augusta: "...while medidated revolt, and the East was being devastated, through Athens and Corinth accompanied by At this time, we should also point out that uncertain so don't take anything from it For his part, Cassius Dio confirmed that Verus personally take part in any battles, but made Whatever the truth, fortunately for Rome, left with Verus and continued on their way Some of the more important ones were Martius Remember that last one as he will be important Martius Verus attacked Armenia and conquered He then restored Sohaemus to the throne, the and assumed the governorship of Cappadocia. Historian Cassius Dio gives most of the credit Cassius. After King Vologases retreated back to Parthia, cities of Seleucia and Ctesiphon, the latter Afterwards, Avidius made his way to Syria and was installed as the new governor of the Later, Marcus Aurelius would grant him control decision he would come to regret. The Antonine Plague Despite just winning a war, things soon went The soldiers returning home did not come alone. They brought with them a mysterious illness in history. It became known as the Antonine Plague, also the Greek physician who described the disease Medendi. It caused fever, vomiting, swollen throat, fits that produced a foul odor and skin rashes The illness lasted for about two weeks and immune from further infection. The exact nature of the disease is still somewhat Smallpox and measles were generally regarded of ravaging a population that had no resistance In more recent times, the second candidate and doctors believe smallpox was the true They point to archaeological evidence that the pustules typically associated with smallpox. While the Romans picked up the plague while are shrouded in legend. There are multiple versions of the story, was punishment from the gods because the Romans the city of Seleucia. Trying to determine the impact of the pandemic Some say it wasn't as bad as everyone thinks Rome, while others believe it marked the beginning At its height, it killed thousands of people territories. It lasted until 180 AD and some believe that later was, in fact, another outbreak of the Lastly, the Antonine Plague may have claimed While we don't have details surrounding on January 23, leaving Marcus Aurelius as The Marcomannic Wars The Antonine Plague was just one of the crises the end of the Parthian War. The other one was barbarian invasions by Germanic was also known as Limes Germanicus. Such border conflicts were relatively common threat to their outermost provinces. In fact, when the enemy was strong and determined itself as just a few centuries later, the by invading Goths and Vandals. The situation was not as dire this time around, It had just finished a war, meaning that its were growing weary of conflict. Most of its northern border was poorly defended Parthia. And last, but certainly by no means least, It certainly seemed like an opportune time over the exact motive for the invasion. Some believe that the most obvious answer to take advantage of the weakened state of Others speculate that it might have been overpopulation them to expand into the West. The main belligerents (besides the Romans, the name Marcomannic Wars. They were joined by another Germanic tribe actually a Sarmatian people originating in They were assisted, at various points, by a major conflict that lasted for almost two Aurelius's successor. The leader of the opposing forces was Ballomar, Cassius Dio first mentions him for acting into Roman territory. This happened in the years shortly before Germanic tribes such as the Longobards and then-governor of the Roman province of Pannonia What exactly persuaded Ballomar to turn from but in 166 AD he united several tribes and Roman territory. Because of the other problems in the empire, was ready to respond. The Roman army marched to Pannonia and set This time, both emperors were there to lead According to the Historia Augusta, many tribal asking for pardons. For a while, it seemed like this conflict Marcus Aurelius was concerned that this was He wanted to keep pursuing the enemy, but The remaining emperor had to return to Rome Marcus Aurelius returned to the battlefield and son-in-law Claudius Pompeianus. A little sidenote here: Cassius Dio singled distinguished himself the most during the named Pertinax who would go on to become emperor in Roman history, but that's a story for For now, we see the barbarian tribes gaining The Iazyges invaded the provinces of Moesia Fronto who served as general during the Parthian Other tribes went into Greece and destroyed in the Roman Empire, the Temple of Eleusinian But the Marcomanni were the most dangerous They scored a decisive victory at Carnuntum inexperienced Roman army and slain 20,000 They kept pushing until they reached Italy years that an enemy of Rome managed to penetrate Marcus Aurelius realized that the Marcomanni a priority when launching a counter-offensive. Legions from other frontiers were rerouted successful. By the end of 171 AD, they had pushed the their pursuit across the Danube until the The other, smaller tribes began seeking audiences Some of them surrendered, others offered alliances. The Quadi agreed to a peace treaty, but then Aurelius defeated them once more and installed deposed him and renewed hostilities yet again. The two sides met in battle and the Quadi divine intervention, according to Cassius He says that one of Marcus Aurelius's retinue, to Mercury and summoned a storm. While the Romans were reinvigorated by the and engulfed in flames. Nothing as dramatic happened with the Iazyges. They simply surrendered and their King Zanticus The emperor's triumphs are recorded on the the Piazza Colonna in Rome. It was modeled on the triumphal column of Dacians. Also during his years in battle, Marcus Aurelius which formed the basis for one of the most Even today, his book titled Meditations is never intended it to be published. Some argue that he wrote it for himself, others Going back to the battle, this was only the It was the biggest of them all, but it was It has been speculated that Marcus Aurelius to eliminate the threat permanently during However, he had little choice but to accept His attention was needed elsewhere as trouble A New Emperor Rises Remember Avidius Cassius, the general from and the surrounding provinces? Well, in 175 AD, he decided to rise against Emperor of Rome. While there is controversy surrounding his him that Aurelius had died during the Marcomannic Even more controversially, historian Cassius wife, as being the one who engineered this Allegedly, she also believed that her husband would kill her son to take the throne by force. Therefore, she preferred Cassius as emperor Anyway, Cassius eventually found out that it was too late to go back. Well, actually, it might not have been if He portrayed Marcus Aurelius as one of the he was not only willing to forgive the man but also said in a speech that if the soldiers, over him, he would surrender his power without Of course, this may have all simply been a After all, what Marcus Aurelius actually did and head to Asia with his army. Meanwhile, Cassius was raising his own force, Just three months after the rebellion started, men who were still loyal to the true emperor. His head was brought to Marcus Aurelius, but to have it buried. Whether or not Faustina was involved in the that same year. Regardless of her intentions, her husband gave her a lavish funeral. With the rebellion over, Marcus Aurelius was his son, Commodus, named co-emperor. Initially, he intended two of his sons to but his other heir, Annius Verus, died when Peace was brief as the emperor had to leave War. He would never return to Rome again as he day Vienna. He was 58 years old and, although he was seemingly he was forced to spend almost his entire reign He was followed by his son Commodus who was merciless, debauched, inept, and a complete Never again would mighty Rome reach the same As Cassius Dio put it, after the death of a kingdom of gold to one of iron and rust."