"Happiness isn't a visible thing. Happiness is 00" Can you guess what it is? Yes. A feeling. This is something that's Happiness is a feeling not visible items. Let's say there is a man that is super wealthy, But if he doesn't feel happy, On the other hand even if a person if that person feels happy then they are happy. What I want to say is how much social status you have, absolutely broke, If you feel happy, you are HAPPY. Alright then, what makes you always feel happy? In today's video, I'm going to share 10 ways I It's an easy method and anyone can do it. 1. Turning your room into your resort of heart Meaning, that you make a room that you because you live in that room most of your time. Let's say for example that room is a total mess, smells bad and is filled with You would feel stressed and but on the other hand, if your room is filled with things you love. like my room you feel great right? So that's why it is important to make So how do you transform your room? It's simple, just three steps: 1. Let go of things you don't need. 2. Surround yourself with things you love. 3. Keep it clean and organized at all times As a result, you've come to love your room Isn't it great?l It's kind of like a place that recharges By doing so, even after you feel a it always soothes you, and rejuvenates you. It really helps you to stay in good spirits. 2. Improve your gut health People would feel happy when Because the Happiness hormone so called So, when your gut environment is balanced, serotonin production increases, making On the other hand, when it is imbalanced, serotonin production decreases, which That's why the gut is often How can we regulate our gut? Yes, food. Here is what I eat to keep my gut healthy! 1Enzyme drinks digestion and metabolism, so it keeps my gut 2Matcha Yes! Matcha! It has abundant dietary fiber, 3Natto a traditional food in Japan. If you don't like it The key is consuming fermented beneficial bacteria, which help regulate your gut. 3. Picking up trash in the morning You might think, &quot;Picking up kidding me?&quot; But there's a reason behind it. Picking up trash contributes to Well, don't you think picking up trash helps others? right? because it In psychology, helping others has a That sense of satisfaction leads to a good mood. As for luck, Major leaguer Shohei Otani Picking up trash is something many people you start to believe that good things If you feel like trying it Because it helps you start the day in a good 4. Trying to say Hello first This is not always but I Simply put, it feels good when I meet people. On the flip side, not greeting For example, when I'm out for a even if I don't know them, I say Whether they respond or not, I get a sense of If they respond, it makes me even happier. If I didn't greet them, we might which feels awkward. I'd regret not So, I always greet people first. 5. Cleaning the toilet in the morning I always say this, but cleaning the Why does cleaning the toilets boost your mood? Why does cleaning the toilet boost your By cleaning something that you start to feel proud of When the toilet is clean, you get This pride and accomplishment boost your so I can feel good all day. 6. Complimenting yourself in front of the mirror I'm not saying you should But it's good to give yourself a For example, "Your hair looks great today!" Even a small compliment can improve your mood. I often compliment my muscle. It's like when a friend says, "Did you get a haircut? It looks I'm saying, do that for yourself. Gve it a try! 7. Finding your IKIGAI The concept of &quot;ikigai&quot; in Japan translates In Japan, it's said that people with IKIGAI IKIGAI is often introduced in books like this: Ikigai is in the middle of "What what you can be paid for, While that's one way to see it, simple interviewing many elderly people in Japan. It's often in small, everyday For example, grandmas in the village raising grandchildren, walking, sharing It doesn't need to be big things, but any small For me, creating YouTube videos is one of my morning air and making matcha--these I think the key is to find joy 8. Leave the curtains open Leaving the curtains open before Why? Because you'll wake In my case, since I don't have blackout curtains, Which is good, because it helping me become more active in the morning. Also, the sun naturally triggers the release It helps control emotions and There are so many amazing benefits! However, if the light bothers you at In that case, make sure to open the curtains as soon as you wake up. It'll 9. Morning yoga Lately, I've been doing yoga right It's amazing for boosting your Stretching out your stiff body Feeling light naturally improves your mood. By taking deep breaths of the fresh and Plus, It improves blood circulation, clears After you wake up and lay on 10. Morning walks A morning walk is a key There are two reasons: Firstly, I can deeply inhale fresh air. I consider the morning air This is because it is purified It's incredibly fresh and pure. By just thinking that makes me happy. 2. "Finding gratitude:" During my walks, I look for things to be grateful for. The feeling I do this in the morning because few people are Try incorporating these tips into your daily routine to boost your mood Lastly, I want to tell you &quot;Future&quot; = &quot;Heart&quot; (your current In other words, &quot;Future&quot; =&quot;With So, if your state of mind is 1000, then meaning having a positive state of mind makes it easier to attract good future! What I want to say is your mood really effects your result. For example if I make videos in a negative state. watch. You don't want watch But since I'm always in the good mood when I make Mood is important! Let's live each day aiming Have a wonderful day! Bye!