Transcriber: Rhonda Jacobs When I was just a little boy my mother taught me to wash my hands, and when I flushed I'd go, boy, you'd better And I had this little puppy, and when I saw what came I'd go, boy, I'd better wash my hands. And my mother taught me all about germs and you should always And then I grew up and we had the microscope. And we looked at these bacteria, and we heard these stories and people dying all over the place, and now we could actually stamp out And then, all of the sudden, and I go, &quot;What's that?&quot; And as we began this was the breakthrough that allowed us to actually understand our microbiome, particularly in our GI tract, because when I was just it was very limiting. You could only see just certain kinds, but now that we could this all started about ten years ago, when they started looking what are the genes? How many genes? What are the genes that we have? Through incredible research, that we actually had, like, 26,000 genes. And I thought, wow, that's really cool, and everybody was studying the genes until they started studying The rice plant had 46,000 genes. What's that?! You know, I mean, we're only 26 ... and they're 46?! And so this was very humbling to say that the rice plant So then about five years ago and they started to do that resides inside of our body. Guess how many genes there are there. 100,000 genes. And so we began to look at, Who are these? What are these? So there's, like, 100 trillion of them. When we think of cells of our body, our biome describes We're only ten percent. So we just heard how wonderful it is I would suggest we probably just need to because &quot;the other&quot; is way beyond this. So these genes are incredible - and then when we look it's incredible how diverse this whole environment, and just resides in some Well, okay, let's team up with our bugs. So we're 26,000 and they're 100,000. Wow, now we can trump the rice plant, (Laughs) so we better stay joined with them. So we begin to do - what actually So we first think of fermentation - you know, right here these bugs are actually fermenting and they produce about the equivalent And, yeah, that's true. And so, of course, we handle it we don't get tipsy with that much. And so in this process of fermentation, some very important things are created; These short-chain fatty acids So if you breed a little mouse this little creature is very vulnerable And so in many ways, and we wonder, where does Because the little human, he doesn't have a lot of bugs - this has been kind of coming but so far, we've always thought of it But when this little child and is breastfed, that is where This is critical and our C-section babies this is very difficult, so now, in modern places if the little child has to a vaginal swab is actually taken so that they can actually become otherwise the immune system So this is very, very vital, so that's kind of the positive But there's a negative side to this, remember all these cells, these thousands like most of life, it's about a balance, and when they are not balanced, When that begins to happen, You know the word Some of you may actually have it - you know, diarrhea, all these kind of things. You know about colitis, These kinds of things there's an imbalance Also, we're beginning to understand that a lot of the - what is called - such as rheumatoid arthritis, these kind of things may indeed be associated with an imbalance So another things that our bugs do Now, if you're starving to death, and you're having to eat and things that have a lot of fiber, your body can only absorb and we can't absorb, normally, Fiber just goes down to the biome, and the biome actually will actually harvest an extra from that food we've eaten. This is how humanity has survived But just as there's a positive, And we find when we look at this whole Anybody have any deficit of calories? So we're not living in a cave anymore So this good thing particularly if we tend towards they're called Firmicutes - and they harvest extra calories, so when we actually look at the biome or people who have diabetes, they tend to have a lot more Are you following me? Do you see where this is starting to lead? What if we begin to change the biome to a more balanced biome Ha! You know how And the studies are already but you know, there's a lot to this. So this study came out it was a fascinating study - because they took and they just gave them and sure enough, the little, skinny mice So then the obvious did the artificial sweetener change or did it change the microbiome? Guess what? So they did this elegant study - if you think of fecal and they took other little, skinny mice, and they just did a fecal transplant no artificial sweeteners, and that little, thin mouse became obese, So you begin to see how this science And a third area is what we call the gut-brain axis. And when you look at animal studies, you can take, again, and when they're born, You know, they don't kind of hang out and they don't eat well, and they're kind of autistic. But if you then transplant they become normal, they just kind of hang out You can see where this And sure enough it's already happening. So in Europe, there's some beautiful studies Here in America, there's some people you know, probiotics probiotic enemas - to autistic children, I have not seen good but where there's a little smoke, Now in the human studies, so we already know but we also want to know, And sure enough, when we find people of course, nobody here in the audience, that must be someplace else - but under high stress And what we find So inside the gut there's so you have all this bacteria and then this first layer of mucus, The next layer is another layer of mucus and under stress, those mucus layers and antigens from the bacteria and therefore into our circulation. So this barrier is broken down. And there's a great deal of study to even look at microbiome Alzheimer's is now because we know those high sugar levels, So at first I thought, but when I began to see that have linked together - 30 neuroscientists just published an editorial saying we need to take another look in relationship to the biome. So let's kind of think about What are the nutritional features So, first of all, we have the refined You're probably aware that are manufactured in America today, That did not happen by accident. Sugar is addicting. That processed food is beginning to make us less and less healthy. So obviously, when they go to a grocery store, just shop around the periphery well, except for the deli maybe - but real food, don't go into that sinister middle section But that's where Eat real food, because And then eating our vegetables, so your kimchi, and your sauerkraut, all of these natural biome foods And when we think about like avocados and walnuts that's very important And the biome needs protein, so good quality protein Well, I like to think about the lifestyles that could help our biome. And believe it or not, They have a night and day rhythm And there are scientists on the circadian rhythms of bacteria. And so when you don't sleep, and they need sleep. (Laughs) So it's really important to have that kind And believe it or not, exercise also stimulates You begin to see a trend here, don't you? So, then the one that I thought is that our use 70 percent of all the antibiotics are used to feed the animals from which we get our eggs 70 percent. Why do they do that? Because you give antibiotics and it goes to market quicker. So 70 percent - ever wonder why And think of all of you - you know, &quot;I've got a cold. Oh, I better call my doctor and ask &quot;Quick, a Zipac!&quot; Every time you treat as in bacterial, it changes your biome. So if you do need antibiotics, be sure and follow up your sauerkraut, your kimchi, You've got to repopulate your bowel So, gut bug cultivation. (Laughs) You know, we should you know, there should be something like, &quot;Gut Bugs for Dummies&quot; So first of all, we have to respect them. You know, they're 90 percent they're there. And certainly, we want we want to make sure that they get And if you have happy bugs, Thank you very much. (Applause)