All right. The project at hand right now is. I want to do a little work This would give the building a lot more character and kind of hide and add a little bit more space Let's dig for the footings And this is all plastic off now We are trying to keep the building over to do some epoxy floors. Oh, let's just, dig this out of here What are you doing? taking a little puppy nap? Look how you shake. And I just see dog You are just a dog hair factory. You don't shed as much as him. This one. You got to add oil to it That's fine. I'm just gonna dig this out I mean, it's pretty much at bedrock. It's not like me too much is going to The concrete's So the floors match. That's the way to go. Look at that. Solid bedrock. That is scraped down to solid bedrock. Nice and clean and bigger than the area. We need. Let's go to my model Measure from there to the outside. Lets double check stuff I brought this outside. What do you have? Can I see it? You don't ever let me see it. You just fly up in there buddy. Jesse: How are you doing? Good. Yeah. What are you working on? I am going up to the Adirondacks tomorrow. Oh, yeah? Have you used this stuff before? Yeah. I guess Because it's hidden in concrete. Yeah, it's lighter but can't bend it. You can, you just gotta heat it up. Oh, really? Yeah. There is 360 degrees in a circle. In a hexagon. So let's divide that by 6 60 degrees. Line right there. There is our angle Oh, yeah. Look at that. Hang on Down a little bit With this thing now. I like that. 7 feet, that's fine. Needs to be cut like that. You know what? Let me put a new blade in this In the exact right spot Oh, you. Hang on This concrete isnt straight Okay. If anyone wants this cube Link in the description for this. And t shirts and stuff. Geez. What are you wofing at? Rebar is done. I gotta cut the bottom of these doors off. The concrete is going to right about there. So I'll take those doors off eventually. But not until I need to. Well, not until it's closed in. Okay, I think we're ready for concrete. Let's try to figure out how much concrete It's like different deepness's Oh, that's about 23" And over here it's only 16" We could say that thing is an average of 20" deep Call that 156" I'm rounding everything up. There's got to be a better way to do this. But the area of that. But we're going to minus this cube. That cube that's in there, it's 11 x 36, 13 yards. Who wants to check my math? That number seems about right. Building inspectors of YouTube. What do you think of my form? I like it. Ok, Blue is inspecting it right there. Blue, what do you think, buddy? You are the building inspector He is checking that thoroughly. Okay. I feel this is a little more accurate. I drew this in Sketchup, exactly with all the depths. It's 326 cubic feet. So then doing the math, When I estimated it before, I was rounding So now I know that estimate but that's exactly what it is. I'll just order a little more to be safe. Good right there That is flowing Shoot it all the way back It goes to the top of the forms To your right Keep putting it there, that is low infront of the shoot. Keep it in that spot Pull forward a little bit These headsets help allot. Cody, come here Hour or so later Maybe two hours. All right, check that out. That looks good. I don't think those forms moved one bit. and I took the time to make that perfect. I like it. Blue, what do you think? Do the inspection. Blue is here inspecting it. Very important. Big stretch. Your birthday's coming up. You're going to be five, five years old. First time trying this new tool. Look at that. This was one of those I say this is a win. Look at the amount of oil in here It's supposed to be in the window. It's leaking. I need to fix it. This is the hose we're changing. This one? Yeah. That's the one. It's just. It just doesn't. It's like they just get stuck. Got it Yeah. I'm taking all the shipping container doors off Yeah, it's going to hide Yeah, it's going to look so much Oh, yeah. Oh, it's going to give the building At least that's easy. Did your dogs run away? I don't know. They're probably right there. Dad: Why don't you get a new seat? I tried, they only sell the whole assembly. And it was, $1600 bucks. Yeah. That's pretty neat. Yeah. How much was that? It was cheap. Yeah, it's pretty easy. All right. Just brought it in the garage. So the way it is now, the auxiliary lines is plugged Thumb has to be unplugged. And these are just kind of hanging. Really? That can just go right there. All right. That looks a lot cleaner. Now, when I plug in an accessory, Just hit these valves. That was a grease fitting. Look at that. look at that. Okay, instantly. Making sure locking grease couplers will fit over this. So they did try to put one here. But this. That wasn't strong enough. And it folded over the grease fitting. What do got there, buddy? Can I see it? Come on. Yeah. Let me have it I'll throw it for you. You got a really good grip on that. That looks a lot cleaner. And it's fixed. All right, let's get digging. Let's do this side too. Just to remind myself that there is a big step. Okay. Got a new one of these All right. Need to figure out how much concrete All right. This is my new favorite way I drew that exactly the way it is. in SketchUp, the program So you do that, right click it, hit And then over here. Now here's my volume, 200ft2. So let's convert that to yards So we got 200 divided by 27 equals 7.4 yards of concrete. So I'll order 8 All right. That looks pretty good. Still setting up, the form did blow out over here. But I saved it you know, the screws can have a little bit of a that to it, Actually, its more concrete, All right. Well, I'm going to kind of end this video So that turned out good. That one's good too. And the next step is to form out these walls But then there's because there'll be a floor, And the deck up top gets bigger area gets bigger and the building's this is done. But that kind of gives you an idea The walls I do, I'm going to do that because that turned out absolutely awesome all the way up with it instead of stopping And, yeah, this will look a lot more like All right. What do you guys think? Did you walk through my concrete before? Yeah, yeah. You walked in the concrete? Yes. You did. All right,