Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh Master, madam, miss. We'll leave immediately. Mom and Dad, I'm back Yeah, it tickles. Okay Aren't you afraid that your sister will suddenly come back with my sister? Fine I point sound 17. Don't you work overtime in the company There's no talk here. Get out of my house. You can do such a thing. Are you still my sister? All the good things from childhood to everyone are mine. Look what happened to you man I think you are spoiled Don't you dare hit me. What happened? Mom and Dad, you came here, just as my sister and my fiance have gone too far. Yes, I also said how he is you too much How can you beat your sister for such a small thing? Just a man. If you offer to give it to your sister, will she rob it? Mom and Dad, are you so eccentric and worthy of my efforts? I didn't pay for the house and car at home. That's what you should be Do you know you're not my mother's Our family gives you a bite to eat You should be grateful What did you say back then? We 've been trying not to have kids Later I heard that adoption can bring children. That's why we adopted a child like you I didn't think you were really useful. It won't be long before we have our own baby. You must be desperate now This is what you forced me to say Mm-hmm. This is the best news I 've heard From small to large you eccentric I thought I didn't do well enough. As a result, it seems to be you now. You are not a human being. Don't be proud Your real parents are coming for you I hear they're poor in the mountains. Ha ha ha ha ha ha You should pack your things and follow a stick. The old lady set out at once to pick up her daughter and go home. Get rid of the garbage, my life has just begun Mom and Dad, no matter how poor you are I will give you a good life Stop. Open the box and see if we have stolen anything from our original family. I don't take things from your family. I think it's unlucky. Forget it. How many hard days will he have in the future? Don't dispute with him Daughter Mom and Dad Oh, I 've cried my tears for so many years. Today is a happy day Mom, look at these two hillbillies driving three rounds. Dirty and worn A look is out of the poor mountain ditch, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha The two are the adoptive parents of 17 These are some native products of our hometown I hope you have it in your collection. No need These things are breakfast Open it and take it Is this a potato or a pickle? This also can take ah This stuff is garbage in our house. This house has enough trash. Oh, I can smell the stink. Your mom and dad are getting dark The road is not easy. We have to catch the mountain road. Good. We have been walking in this mountain for more than an hour. How long will it take to get home It's already here. From the beginning of entering the mountain, this mountain is our home How big is this 30000 acres of land Mom sent two, one for the smaller one Two yeah, me How rich is our family? Not sure every second is different. Making money every second. Then how do you drive three rounds We were gonna pick you up in a Rolls-Royce The result was a halfway collision You're afraid of wasting time, so you spent 500000 directly to buy the tricycle next to you. Here we are. Is this a hotel? Welcome Home This is our home Oh, my God, wow. With so many people, can our family live? There are still more than 20 rooms to live in. Which room do you want to live in All right I'm not dreaming No, oh, oh, oh, ha, ha, ha, ha, Mrs. Mo Isn't this a gift for the young lady's adoptive parents? How to get it back They don't think it's pickles Not pickles, that's what Baby 1000 grams of gold Well, er, er, er, why is there still a stone here? This is the 7 million value of jade raw stone oh oh Gee, they don't know what they're missing But they don't deserve such a good thing. They're bad for you They are not good to me. Otherwise, I don't even think it's true that this splashing of wealth has hit me. Ah ah ah hey hey hey ah In the street tonight, miss you awake Who are you? I'm your housekeeper, oh You had a good dream. Don't make me think Miss, this is not a dream Have you forgotten? Grandpa and wife picked you up from your adoptive parents' home yesterday Yes The wealth in the studio, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha I have to try again, haha. Good morning, aunt. Baby, mom bought you a new necklace. 4 million I don't want Don't. Don't. I also have no occasion to bring Lao Wang, are you the host of the socialite dance? Today I took my daughter to attend It's too embarrassing for you to come. Now there's an occasion You have to take the necklace Yes, the five monsters have to dress beautifully today. Mom and Dad take you to meet some new friends Gee, I don't like to deal with these occasions. I like to surf the Internet at home and brush my circle of friends. My adoptive parents are going too. What will the bright moon do? When you were five, you cooked for their house. I haven't found your adoptive parents' account yet. They'll be disqualified today. Oh no, I'm going to meet them I want to surprise them well Ma'am, I'll take care of your makeup and styling today. I this even stay up late every day to come together and oil and yellow But if you feel clean in place Makeup will really be very obedient These are all clothes for you. Please try them on. Mm-hmm. My daughter is so beautiful Let's go, wait, you two will wear this. I met my adoptive parents Well, you can afford a suit of clothes. Ha ha Lockbags ha ha ha ha ha well, no We have to dress better You can't lose face for your daughter. You should go first. Wow, this girl is so beautiful May I invite you for a dance Good. I'm sorry. I don't deserve ballroom dancing How did that unlucky ghost come shameless You 've already been thrown out of the house. Still dare to take out our original banner to sneak into the socialite dance Is the name of your original family remarkable? I was invited in, too. Guangdong's Celebrity Ball Only Famous Family Eligible to Be Invited Your biological parents were both farmers in the mountains. What kind of daughter are you? The daughter of rice transplanting Ha, ha, ha, I am Jiang's daughter Jiang 17, ha ha ha ha ha If you lie, you will come as soon as you open your mouth. Jiang, that's the most mysterious top-level giant. Even Wang Dong is small in their eyes You can't vote for him 1000 times. If you don't say it, I didn't even know our family was so powerful. You still keep your mouth shut Assistant Gao, you are a red man around Mr. Wang. This impostor actually said he was the daughter of Jiang. GANG, I have a heavy dedication Then tell them who I am. But I 've never heard of Jiang's daughter. Ha, ha, ha, lie was exposed so quickly It's too embarrassing for me that you haven't learned a little courtesy and integrity in our family. Somebody pull him away Who said Jiang didn't have a daughter Mom and Dad, these two old hats I thought I could show off here by stealing designer clothes. The family swindled together It's really a crooked upper beam What's going on? Wang Dong, you are here We're about to throw out the three people who disrupted the dance. Shut up. This is a top-tier family, Mr. and Mrs. Jiang, and their daughter. Let me introduce you She is my long-lost daughter Jiang 17 After who bully her is against me What a daughter Do you know who should go now? Don't, I I 've been hungry for this dance for half a month. And I'm also a Yuen daughter. I am qualified for this ball You will soon be disqualified. Because the Yuan family is going bankrupt 17 For the sake of the family we used to be, you'll leave us alone. Are you talking about so many years of eccentricity and utilization? Line For the sake of our family. Finally, I'll give you a show. Mom. I'm going to a reunion. Stop. That's what you memorized when you went to the reunion, right I am not afraid to lose my coffee. but also can hold things It's all because your true adoptive parents are poor in raising you. Now that my mother is here, I have to raise her, mom. Let you live a rich second generation life Mom. Take you to spend money first Hello, Chairman Zhang You must take the money I gave him to buy a bag today. 80,008 Is this something I can get my hands on? This eloquence 200 That's it. Here is the receipt, thank you. 2 million Oops. It's over. Press the wrong decimal point. Miss Jiang has such a good eye. This bag is the only one in the whole process. I want to make a tremolo to record a good life. My daughter will finally spend Hey mom, you can tremble But remember to mosaic my face In case anyone finds out that I have a mother as rich as you That's not all come to me to borrow money My daughter is really low-key It's time, I'll go first. Mm-hmm. just the 2 million bag You can't run into oil ideas for dinner later. Proud up, hey hey I'm sorry. Everybody, I'm late Long time no see Jiang 17, did you come here or did you come by ox cart? I heard you got dumped by rich foster parents His parents are mountain people. It's really a lifetime of poor bad karma Can't have a good day How well do you mix? Look, this is the bag I just bought today. The global limit has only one value 2 million What about 2 million? Ginger 17 What kind of bag do you carry, do you care 17 bags exactly like Nana's Isn't there only one in the world? I paid attention to the chattering of Chairman Shoufujiang. His daughter just bought you two today. What's going on? Forget it, I'll just be honest Yes, I am the richest daughter The richest daughter pretended to be me I was too low-key before I'm afraid to scare you Uh-huh, Jiang 17, it's still too late for you to serve me some tea now. Otherwise, I will hurt your whole family with my fingers. This video is mosaic, you said it was How to prove I 'd like to prove to you But you're a mountain man I am the richest daughter We have different grades. We won't have any intersection after the reunion. Mom, make a tremolo for me Er... The richest man trembles again, saying that there will be a luxury auto show tomorrow. Isn't the richest man your home? If you can take us It also proves your identity. What's the matter? You can't be fake, huh Fake Okay. But you're not allowed to go, huh Mom saw a lot of ladies in the beauty salon today. Designate skin care products of this brand Especially suitable for oil skins and mixed skins Mom also bought you a set Wow, it's my favorite C card skin care kit I ran into something bad when I went out today. I was so angry that the oil on my face came out more. I want it all cleaned up Dark oil light, bad luck all out of the way Wow. After washing the skin, the water DUANGDUANG is really bright. This bottle of facial cleanser is amazing Wash away all my girl's bad luck. The whole person is in good spirits, ha, ha, ha Heart energy is prosperous, da da, ha, ha, ha, that's right. Why did you make me tremble today? There was a bad classmate pretending to be me at today's party. When the time comes, I will catch turtles in an urn. Tear his true colors apart Nana, thanks to you Otherwise, we wouldn't have had a chance to come to such a luxurious car show. People of my class, these are small things. Jiang 17, who let you come I came to see the auto show Didn't I not let you come Poor wretches are shameless, okay I don't rely on you You go ahead, I 'd like to see how you take everyone in. Okay, yeah You guys wait here for me I'll go and inform Big Brother You let them in, I'll be your girlfriend Psycho, ha ha ha Can Nana enter? That was my subordinate just now He said that the auto show was canceled today and he would come back another day. What is canceled, why don't I know Why are you better informed than me? I'm the daughter of the richest man. Isn't this the richest man? Hey. Your mother called you Hiding what ah Go! Go! My mom's coming soon She doesn't like me being friends with the poor You guys go. I didn't know I had a daughter like you Daughter, mother You are 17 is the real daughter Face is not stolen. It's OK to earn it yourself. 17 ah. I have something big to tell you Will the doll go or not What age is it that you still have baby kisses? An arranged marriage does not end well. Hum If you can't talk about it yourself, you have to lose it. Don't. How can I get out of marriage? How can we not go on a blind date? Teacher It turns out that we are in love with the same disease How about we fake marriage First, they will retire their marriage. And then 30 days after the divorce, how about Oh. Deal to go Ah, right What kind of work do you do My family is just doing fake marriage There's no need to tell him my identity is unemployed What kind of work do you do Say a fake identity lest there be any complications I sell buns That's when I lost my job I'll go home and pack my things and go to your bun stand to help. I'm sorry I'm late This firm home good This is the car you called How is that possible? There are so many black cars in this place. Go to other places to soliciting I can't afford to ride in your car Go.Ah. Ha ha Miss Get in the car She called you miss Aha, um Do you think I'll get in your car if you're polite? I'm going to take the subway Don't hurry up, huh Black car, black car Well, I... I'm going to take the subway I'm going to take the bus Help me rent a steamed stuffed bun. Master Li, housekeeper, help me prepare an apron. Tomorrow I'm going to work at the bun stand The apron should be the cheapest one You work really quick My adoptive parents started letting me work when I was five. Turns out he's not easy But now I 've found my real parents They're good to me seventeen seventy-seven Mom and Dad, you 've come here to suffer for your divorce from a rich young master. He's much better than that rich young master. Hard-working and hard-working, tall and handsome, I am not his marriage Isn't this Master Liu Relatives like anti-Kangxi parents, don't worry about blessing is over What are you talking about? You can't go back on your word with him. I won't leave him Okay, it's a deal Mm-hmm. It turned out that she was still a rich man, but she chose me. He's so good Isn't this ginger 17? You're married to a poor boy who makes buns. They're all classmates. And I can open a two-story clothing store on Chaoyang Road, opening tomorrow. All the big shots came to join us. Thumper, so many people Then I'll push your door to sell money tomorrow. I advise you ah Don't humiliate yourself. Then I advise you not to climb high and fall again. Hey, just this store He will never lose when we open his business. Why do you think our two families have so much flour? Oh, no, no, no Go for a walk and wash off the foam. It's so rich. Yo hey hey ah Ah, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Hey. How the eyes are not uncomfortable Of course, it's phosphoric acid zero soap base. Even if the acne is broken, it won't hurt. Today we must get back face Yo Jiang 17, you really came, OK Then I'll show you my highlights. For a while There are a lot of big people to help me celebrate the opening. Are you sure Du always came Oh, Mr. Du You are the boss of a multinational group. For such a small matter as my shop, you came in person. I'm so flattered. 17 Miss. Congratulations on the opening of your bun shop. Thank you Jiang 17, what is your identity The richest man, have you heard of the Jiang family? My surname is Jiang now What do you say You are the daughter of the Jiang family, wife Really. Uh-huh, I'll explain it to you later. Then I have a rule for you I 've heard that Jiang's daughter and Liu's master have set dolls since childhood. Pro You're with a poor man who sells buns. If this let the Liu family know What do you think will happen to your family? I'm going to tell him, no need I am here, you are master Liu Great. The marriage between the Jiang family and the Liu family was successful. Send you a word, brilliant moment everyone has Don't take a moment for eternity, your sword Shutting down 17. Mom has prepared a birthday present for you. Is it Miao's silver hat? Wow. So many keys. Since you got lost, my mother has bought you a suite every birthday. This is the key to Suite 20 Mm-hmm. Thank you, Mom, for letting me be a rental woman. Mm-hmm. But I still want to go on Then give it to the boss of your company. Good. Then I'm going to make a private visit You are a new batch of goods from the new Jiang 17 company. You move your job for me Why do you want to do it for me Didn't anyone tell you that my boyfriend is the manager here? What is it? Baby Move goods this kind of thing, somebody else that little milk mouse little milk rabbit how to do it Let him go, he scolded me Hum It's even more disgusting to go to work without going to work for a month. Whoops New comer, you move now Oh, sorry I also don't have time, the somebody else want to pull small milk powder Well, you, look at him. He's too much. I'm so angry with the baby, baby. I'll just let him go. No. You have to pay him for firing him. I have a way Everyone doesn't need to order takeout. My baby ordered beef noodles for you He got his brain caught in the door This was not the case before. I'll go and see 17 is for you. He offended me, so he didn't have a part. It's okay, you eat I'll order it myself Ginger 17, I want to isolate everyone Let's not stay, write I can't believe you're eating a whole bowl alone. Is this human food? Baby You'll give me a baby later, hello I only eat a little Baby, you still need to eat more You are too small People don't want to make me eat five dumplings at a meal now. Drink a large cup of milk tea I am very fierce Be careful I eat hello ah ah ah ah ah ah oh oh you stop it You really have the power to eat wrong I can hardly sleep off work I'll do it. I'll treat everyone to spicy and hot pot. Jiang 17 I have many means Wait for me Jiang 17, tomorrow's live broadcast of C cafe double-tube facial cleanser will be one anchor short. This is our company's most important customer. You wouldn't dare I use this facial cleanser every day. No one knows the advantages of his product better than I do. What do I dare not Hum You don't have eggs Give me the live broadcast process Didn't you write it yourself? You intentionally Do you know you're messing with me What will happen to you All I know is that if this live broadcast doesn't work out You'll be fired by the company. And the enterprise also has to compensate the company 100000 yuan Don't worry I'm sure I'll be on time. I see how you play Poof, sisters Today, we will spit out our wonderful colleagues in the hotpot bureau. I have a colleague In front of men, they just turned 18. No man called when Smoking, drinking, talking about everything. still Depend on him, stop playing the humidifier and roll down for me. Some sisters said that ducks are not allowed in the studio. The number of people in the live broadcast broke 100000. Brother, some people say you have oil on your face. It's okay, do you like to eat hot pot as much as I do What is the first step in skin care? Is to do a good job of facial cleaning Let's recommend C coffee double-tube facial cleanser for everyone. A tube of amino acids, a tube of white mud Gentle than soap base Cleaner than amino acids Can also remove light makeup and sunscreen Also added two-split yeast and other essence After washing, the water is moist and not tight. C coffee as a new national product for precision skin care They're pretty good at cleaning and beauty. More than 10 million have been sold online. Also won many awards in the industry Order quickly 17 All the stock has been robbed. Jiang 17, I won't let you be so popular. Jiang 17 Because you didn't go according to the original live broadcast plan The customer is very angry You're fired. Who said that? Just now the customer called and said that he liked the live broadcast of 17 very much. I don't care what you say You're all set today. Let me baby now. Tell someone to kick you out. Don't you just hook up with a manager Don't be too arrogant At least I have a man to rely on you 17 men are here. Master Liu, you Gun 17, what qualifications do you have to say me Don't you also rely on men Why don't you check the actual owner of this company? Actual owner, Jiang 17 This company is yours I don't have to rely on men to get on top. Because I was already on the reign Please don't pull me I'll disappear right now. Stop. Your ID card is missing. Take the clown. Oh no, it's little milk