&quot;I'm praising you because...&quot; Hey, how big is your a reason... I tell you what. Somebody is praising good start. Now listen. Some people don't praise if you ever thought you wouldn't see another day Everything that has breath and is thankful, praise had something to eat today. I'm not saying it saying you aren't still hungry, but somebody is is praising him today because they had somewhere Somebody is praising him because this week you that smile was on your face. You felt a trickle of God's blessing come against your depression. is in church with you who you thought would Somebody is praising him because although the you know that Jehovah-Rapha is your healer life. Somebody is praising him today because they look back at their past and thank &quot;I'm praising him because...&quot; Now you fill he's faithful. I'm praising him because he's my Elohim. I'm praising him because he's shall not want. I'm praising him because for every mountain he brought me over.&quot; [Worship] High-five seven people and say, he's really that good. Yeah, he's really I really appreciate him. Yeah, I really know me. Do y'all want to keep singing that? All YouTube, or Amazon Music. Go get a cassette. I have a feeling for some of you that's not the song of your heart through every season and people haven't always treated you good, For we know that in all things God works all he's all good. How many know, &quot;It was all Hey, eFam, I want in the comments every &quot;because&quot; praising him because...&quot; Just fill in the blank. with us. Elevation Ballantyne, let's welcome you're here for the final installment y'all. We have to make it count. Well, We might do a season 2 sometime, The birthday girl herself, Holly Furtick, left us where Holly dropped you off in Acts, chapter 10. Holly, and all of the things I wrote in that were typos, please forgive them, and if I inappropriate with some of the things Thank you for the way you nourish our family, fears and insecurities with the loveliness and encouragement. When I call you the &quot;Holly the greatest guide I was ever given in my life, You know what's crazy? There are so many used the Holly spirit in a way to steer me, but I will listen to you. Thank and thank you for bringing the Is it a coincidence that today is Pentecost the church celebrates the birth of the church and to be a Sunday this year, the birthday, not of &quot;This week, where your birthday falls, I would &quot;Well, would you just preach a special We wanted to close this series where we've are grateful, by the way, for the Holy Spirit He is so much more than a goose bump or a good give you a good feeling. If God is giving out People say faith is not feelings. Well, I I feel a lot of other things too. But the book of ways as being the promise of God, the gift of God, of the Holy Spirit, the fullness, the power, the I believe the Lord led me to this special passage of us as we are listening now for what the for the first time, we don't stand for the whole and then standing is discretionary I ask that you stand wherever you are you're going to have a birthday too. in your life you weren't even prepared &quot;About noon the following day as they were on went up on the roof to pray. He became hungry that's your new life verse. &quot;I want something I want something to eat.&quot; &quot;...and while the meal heaven opened and something like a large sheet It contained all kinds of four-footed animals, as 'Get up, Peter. Kill and eat.' 'Surely not, anything impure or unclean.'&quot; &quot;There are reptiles is not on my diet. That is forbidden in Jewish boy. I can't do it, Lord. I never Verse 15: &quot;The voice spoke to him a of God. &quot;'Do not call anything This happened three times...&quot; Peter is kind was taken back to heaven. While Peter was the men sent by Cornelius found out where They called out, asking if Simon who was going to make a whole sandwich out of that &quot;While Peter was still thinking about the [I hate to interrupt your deep thoughts, and go downstairs. Do not hesitate to Peter went down and said to the men, 'I'm come?' The men replied, 'We have come righteous and God-fearing man, who is holy angel told him to ask you to come to his say.' Then Peter invited the men The next day Peter started out with them, and following day he arrived in Caesarea. Cornelius is the verse I want to dedicate to Holly and to Verse 10: &quot;He became hungry and wanted something Now look at your neighbor and tell them, Now flip it a little bit. Turn to your &quot;And God is preparing you for something amazing.&quot; Somebody needs something from the Lord today. the rock in the wilderness of your despair. but today I want to tell you a little title and assignment of my final installment Speak, Lord. We're listening. I feel something special about to happen things I would miss about Holly if she I would not miss the moments before we Our favorite thing to do together...our to go out to eat. (Our first favorite We're just different. Our taste in food is first of all, she likes to order appetizers, the meal take 35 more minutes, and I don't much walk into the restaurant knowing what I'm There are three items that are pretty common to those. My wife, on the other hand... I have to tell here on the stage, and she looks wonderful, get to know her. She mentioned how her favorite character goes through something and it's really Did you hear that message? Now What? What a word. I prayed for this baby. You gave I got them out of the car seat. Now they want word. In the process of her speaking to you, she to read was a story where the character Holly Furtick... Her favorite thing to I have seen this woman study a menu at a night for 18 months. We're not very adventurous. and she studies it like it was the Declaration history class. She studies it like it is studies it like it is a Nicholas Sparks The She studies it like it is the state capitals and I have seen her late at night before, of suspicious because she looks so happy are you looking at Candy Crush? Did you beat She will be reading a menu for a restaurant in The woman loves a menu. Am I preaching but I love it, because I'm the one who leans all of that I just said, it's really nice But what I can't understand, Elevation Church... My wife's birthday is Pentecost Sunday. We're excited about it.) Why would you read the she will grill the server. If you are a we will tip big, but you will earn it, will be a quiz. There will be a quiz. &quot;So, the broccoli chicken with the lemon sauce.&quot; The server is always so nice it's a sauce that consists of lemon, and then is it, like, lemony lemon or is it more creamy &quot;Tell me about the honey sriracha.&quot; &quot;Well, ma'am, a way. What I want to know is after all of that, us tonight. We have a few specials that are not I'm thinking, &quot;No way. She prepared for just going to take a flier on something the he has to make every night.&quot; She'll lean in and leave nothing out.&quot; I'm going, &quot;Oh patty and some A.1. I can make it I asked her recently, &quot;Why do you want to what if it's something fresh? What if it's since I'm so boring and take her to the she's creating a new experience in the same place. I want to be a little bit more like you, opening illustration that I indulged in (and I was thinking about how in Acts, chapter reading that story to you. Like, reading to me about somebody who went and went downstairs. What does that have &quot;What does that have to do with this situation but I can't make them go, and I can't under my jurisdiction anymore? What does this what I'm going through today?&quot; Your story other than the fact that you have air on a roof to pray to catch the breeze that's And you probably have a little different this sheet came down from heaven while in verse 9 before we move any farther. as they were on their journey and approaching I think there are some situations you have to them out. Anytime life gives you a situation where you to learn to pray your way through what you have to spend every waking minute of your life does mean you will have to learn how to prepare I see Peter here praying on the roof, and my a lot to pray about. There's a lot of pressure on you? You're embarrassed to say, &quot;Yes&quot; to that taking the gospel to the world.&quot; Well, I mean, responsible for somebody. You're fighting through If nothing else, you have the pressure of that keeps making you want to act like you don't you have the pressure of waking up have more agenda than you have energy. the pressure pushes us over the edge and pushes I don't want to get sidetracked I'm not so interested that Peter was praying or was not even a required time to pray. This was in the church... We beat up on Peter a lot, how how he cut off somebody's ear in to get Jesus, and how he was cussing and Let's give Peter five seconds of &quot;attaboy&quot; praying when he doesn't have to be praying. to humanize these Bible characters. I think you're in church right now and you don't I want you to clap for yourself for a minute. I want you to clap for yourself church today. I know you're not praising here today. Praise God that he brought say you prayed an hour before you came, I wonder what he was praying about. Don't you? he just raised somebody from the dead, staying in the city and, certainly, trying to find Peter in Joppa. So now, in he has to go up on a roof to pray. Maybe if bathroom sometimes and pray. Maybe your prayer but they will find you in that bathroom. I think it's interesting that he went up think sometimes while we're just around all surroundings and around the demands... That's why get to church physically, especially because we'll try to get you He's up there praying, and as he's praying, we praying about his purpose. &quot;God, how do you want cursed while the rooster was crowing...? How do amazing how you used me to heal that man at the me to preach and convert all of these people. It's It's amazing how you used me to get Aeneas me to get Tabitha up, that woman who had made but now I'm in Joppa.&quot; He's still in Joppa. He but he's in Joppa. He's stopping somewhere, and he somewhere that he is praying about where God has Then he gets sleepy while he's praying, completely freaks him out. A blanket comes down thinks while I read the Bible is like, &quot;So, are you just talking about the roof he went Pastor? What's going on that Oh, you just see blankets with birds and happens in the Bible. That's the way we like supernatural, freaky, and crazy, but we're suggesting to you is that the God who showed Somebody shout, &quot;God, show me something.&quot; Be more has been my biggest prayer of the last year. &quot;God, show me something. What did I not see about what did I miss while I went through my day that God, what was the thing I missed today that I will multiply the mistakes what is the thing I have thought I was right right now? What are the answers I knew yesterday life that I am still clinging to that are Peter was praying. I wonder if he was gospel to the Gentiles. Now, just to catch you up but they were not God's covenant people. and God always had a plan to bless the Gentiles you, and you will be a blessing, and all of the Now Peter is standing in the continuation of was ever born. This thing did not you. Everything you're going through is One of the greatest gifts the Holy Spirit realize there will come somebody after that there has come somebody before you and that those who came before you might have break because God called you and assigned When you worship, it gives you a wide lens. When going through. When you don't pray, you feel if you will pray your way through this pressure... even have to be a focused prayer. Peter So, as long as you will set your he wants to speak to you more than you want you want to see it. Stop talking to God of the situation. He wants to give you wants to show you open doors, wants to tell you wants to bring people in your path. He Peter was preparing. &quot;I don't know what's so I've got to pray my way to pray my way so I can prepare.&quot; I because I wanted to show you something. screen and spell it the way you would think was I was just going to write &quot;God is spell it P-R-E-P-A-I-R. I was going to let it OCD grammar police started throwing stones at chapter 7, just up here taking the stones. Just your Elevation pens at me and stuff. &quot;You no, no. God is preparing you for I believe, while Holly was growing up in Miami, South Carolina, the experiences and gifts experiences and gifts God was giving her in to go together to make the ministry God I believe that we were pre-paired. You still Before I preach, I always take out of my pocket be up here preaching, so I always take it out of what this is? I'm not going to do a product you crazy when you see somebody walking they can't take that out of their ear for five I do it too, but I'm usually just not talking to anybody. Sometimes, I'll put it in and pretend like I'm talking &quot;Yeah, yeah. We'll get back to you on that. hear your phone through this Bluetooth AirPod, You don't know. I might be listening to but it's my phone. I wouldn't have to not waiting until I get up here to pair it; it's would be relative to the device The Bible says, &quot;Walk in the Spirit, and you problem with the voices that are going through sucking you dry of your joy, and causing you to well God called you to do...? Is it possible that Is there something that's going on because when I read the passage, you were really? Or is it a picture that even though wasn't prepared to go to Cornelius' house, and chapter 10, he was pre-paired? I think it's possible that although you don't feel feel alone in this season of your life, although this step of faith God has given you, although God has been pre-pairing you for the exact &quot;I will fulfill it.&quot; Say it out loud. it will be.&quot; That's why I want you to not a part of your destiny, every voice, everything you play on your head It's not your truth. You are in a trance, &quot;This is the way I have to be. This is who I've how every teenager is.&quot; Not every teenager, the Holy Ghost and fire. I'm baptized, I'm bold, All right. I'll do it. The Lord said I have What could prepare you for Goliath? &quot;Oh, I have a slingshot.&quot; &quot;Now when I hook up this this experience with this challenge...&quot; Sometimes you remember where you've been, and have memorized a menu that is no longer available get you ready for the summer. beach body. I'm trying to get you a beach spirit. Biceps won't help you when all hell of that is going to matter a bit. But but God is using the food. If you thought you need to read it again through the He's up there hungry, and whenever you're the truth? Ask Esau how good a bowl of beans some people date the wrong people. Okay. &quot;He became hungry and wanted something to eat, You have to see this. Verse 10: &quot;...and while prepared? The meal wasn't the only thing Part of that preparation process was an unpairing, confirmed to me so many times through our worship we sang today was a confirmation of what he gave One of the things you may not have video for my wife's birthday, and Pastor Holly. Thank you, Pastor for the words you've spoken.&quot; I thought it was we praise God who gives us men and women as gifts. it wasn't that they celebrated you that touched It took me back to the memory of the time that said that. Now you is one. Come on. Simon but Jesus called him Peter and said, &quot;Feed my It was pre-paired. God needed somebody down that barrier officially and get the because I am a Gentile. I'm glad the gospel He's preparing me. He's not just preparing a meal; you don't even see the mission? Are you so focused this season's hunger, this season's annoyance...? will miss something that could have been a miracle I thought it significant, on our last week how sometimes the greatest things God brings I'm talking about how you expected him to &quot;Cool. I'll just make you a pastor, and &quot;I'll never be free,&quot; you say. Well, God says, I'll declare you righteous, and I'll set you'll be free indeed. I'll just do what I want called clean. That's what he told Peter. We look There's this guy... I didn't get to tell is amazing. He's over 100 soldiers. He is He's not a Jew. He's not circumcised. but God wants to give him the Holy Spirit. So, because while he's praying at 3:00 p.m. him with somebody who's going to be praying at While you are praying about stuff, God is see what he's preparing, because he was just because you don't see proof. The proof So, Cornelius sees an angel. Now, Peter and saw a sheet. I think one of the reasons for he called him &quot;Lord&quot; and said, &quot;I can't do this,&quot; thing... And I'll leave this illustration if I left it back there, it would be too to stay close to God in your heart throughout God didn't leave you; you left him in your today when you leave. You have the Holy Spirit. This is like a faith food truck. It's going Boy, I needed it yesterday. I was about That relationship with Jesus has Peter not recognize what God is showing him... He sees a them. &quot;I don't know.&quot; Isn't that how most of our If the Bible had a verse... &quot;Should I let my aging with a nursing home? And if I provide them because I don't have any money anyway?&quot; If the says, &quot;My God will supply all your needs.&quot; The detail in this passage is fascinating, how something about food, but he is using the saying to Peter he's saying to you and me. God doesn't mean it's not on mine. Just because not already happening. Just because you don't doesn't mean it's not already halfway turned.&quot; Notice what the Bible says. Verse 9: &quot;About journey and approaching the city, Peter it. Drop down to verse 17. &quot;While Peter was the men sent by Cornelius found When the angel came to Cornelius, he said, &quot;Go find a guy named Simon the tanner, you're going to ask for a man who used to be the men get there. When? Verse 17: &quot;While Peter In my prayer this morning, I &quot;What does this mean?&quot; &quot;Here I am single going back through this cycle again. I thought &quot;My kids aren't speaking to me. What does this of my employment record. What does this mean?&quot; Should I fall back now or is that a sign to yet a sign I'm doing the wrong thing and I I'm struggling the way I'm getting stronger While Peter is praying about all of this... Like, &quot;What does this mean that I'm going through What does it mean that I'm so afraid? What does What does this mean?&quot; Verse 17: &quot;While Peter vision, the men sent by Cornelius found God said to tell you while you're wondering about waiting for you. I'll declare it the men were already there. I am so slow, verse 9 about 15 times, and I didn't get it. their way and approaching the city, I pictured it like this. While Peter and the going back to the city... They'd probably been out crusades. As they got to the city, they stopped up there and pray.&quot; That is not the they that is day as they were on their journey and approaching they are the three men Cornelius sent out They are already on the way. I don't know you need in your life. I don't know if with you or mentors to help you. I your life are emotional areas of healing But God said to tell you on this Spirit they are already on the way. Get it's going to be somebody you haven't God is going to bless you with isn't even What God has on his mind for you is off do through you is off the menu. It's senses. It's not in your past. It's not already at the gate. While you're praying, you have a decision to make, honey pie. You have a decision to make, saint. You have a make, Peter. It goes like this. There are three roof. &quot;What do you mean, Pastor Steve? Who else and the Lord?&quot; No, no, no. I read you the verse. I told you I was going to make a sandwich. I field trip. I packed this lunch, because I want not on the menu. I want you to get it even if your even if your dad didn't give it to you. I want &quot;Thank you.&quot; I want you to get it even if The Bible says that they went to the house and when they got there... Verse 18: &quot;They as Peter was there.&quot; There are two people on the on the roof (everything Peter had been before Simon is looking at the blanket, saying, &quot;I never of stuff we say when God shows us what he wants us cover the earth with the gospel. I'm not worried Stop getting tripped up on the wrong, stupid hurt feeling keep you from your future. My so I can preach this good, Holly. I knew the Holy because I knew there were some things There are some things he Did you notice that? I want you to notice this. of them are up there, you know. Simon represents stuck in our limited experience and stuck the way we think certain people are and the we think women can do this and men can do that I'll never forget people asking me, &quot;When did It was never a decision. Kirk Franklin asked me people like you?&quot; I said, &quot;Absolutely not. We're pre-paired. We're not mismatched. The other day, my friend said, &quot;What a lot of than any white man alive.&quot; I said, &quot;Because I've this wasn't a surprise to me. Not to me. Now, those are all pretty cute, but what if it's What if yours is something that's sexual are paired to and connected to a cycle of to keep giving away everything valuable a severe and chronic emotional condition that but it keeps getting down on the inside? What I want you to understand about this precious empowered by, filled with, called by, chosen the Holy Spirit who one writer said is the who is the horse and the road...this Holy Verse 17: &quot;While Peter was wondering the men stopped at the gate. They called was staying there.&quot; This is what must &quot;While Peter was still thinking about the vision, While Peter was thinking, &quot;What do I does this mean? I don't know,&quot; all his life he has been playing eating like Simon, moving like Simon. But While Peter was thinking &quot;Simon...&quot; I want to spend less time because my Simon will tell me some stuff that I My Simon will tell me (you know, I mentioned road them off, and turn this car sideways. Be there of the Jeep with your shirt off, with your polo of the Jeep on the way home from church today. Let So, I need the Spirit to speak to my Simon I need the Spirit to speak to my Simon ego talking. That's just you trying to be thinking about what really matters.&quot; I need Spirit can show me the &quot;me&quot; that is new. Me...new. God says, &quot;You've been dealing with situations a You've been dealing with situations a gets uncomfortable. You've been dealing with The moment it gets too intimate, you get &quot;You have a new menu, and on this menu is a kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and It's amazing, because the Spirit started speaking he said, &quot;Don't hesitate. Don't try to figure it but stop judging God's capacity spoke to me four days ago and said, I'm not going to be there with you Simon says, &quot;You might not make it.&quot; The and I will show you the deep things of neither has it entered into the heart of those who love him. But God...&quot; Ooh, that's 1 &quot;Eye has not seen, ear has not heard, neither what God has prepared, but God has revealed them to preach you to today. The Bible says you have can happen. Verse 20: &quot;Get up and go downstairs. &quot;Peter went down...&quot; And it's a good thing, because gotten the gospel. Okay. Let me resay that. You know God is going to do what he's but Peter would have missed it. Stop sending up like a baby Christian when you've &quot;I've got something I'm preparing for you, but I If Simon goes down, he tells these men, &quot;I But when Peter went down, he said, &quot;I'm the it. I don't understand it, but I'm the one. Now and the Holy Spirit with us.&quot; It says when they got there, Cornelius there. Peter started preaching, and the Peter. He interrupted him. He was like, and they all began to speak with other tongues. The gospel started rippling through we are in church, as Gentiles, because grateful that even though we weren't on the sends something into your life When the Lord sends something into your and you're wondering what it means, check &quot;I'm the one.&quot; Now, people wouldn't have but we have an off-menu God. He takes people who &quot;Ha, ha! Ha, ha, Holly. Ha, ha, Pastor Holly.&quot; this week that wasn't even on your menu. Get ready Get ready for God to do it in a way that not heard. High-five 15 people and say, &quot;I'm I have a relationship with God, and I'm ready. Off menu. You weren't even expecting it, surprise parties. Your pity party is going party for God to show you that the thing you powerful. Get Peter down those stairs. Bye, Simon! Hey, Peter! Give him 25 seconds [Worship] hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people people around the world for