Understanding Our World. Based on the resources of the University of Michigan. [Music] I have held the same philosophy I now hold learned a great deal through the years and issues, of definitions, of applications, and never had to change any of my fundamentals. of man as a heroic being, with his own happiness achievement as his noblest activity, and reason University of Michigan television presents intellectual life and leadership in America novelist, author of The Fountainhead and Atlas new intellectual. To interview Miss Rand, Psychology at the University of Michigan. Miss Rand, a moment ago we heard you mention I suppose it's true that, at least in one I think very few novelists have devoted the of a consistent philosophical system, so let primarily a novelist or primarily a philosopher? I would say I am primarily both, equally, interest and purpose, both in literature and image of an ideal man, the specific concrete and when I started writing, when I approached philosophy, I discovered that I was in profound particularly their codes of morality. Therefore, my own full philosophical system in order and premises that make an ideal man possible, would result in the character of an ideal I think your novels show very clearly that and fiction that I think you aimed for. Thank you. You know, in several of your novels you've not only in art, but in literature, morality, leadership must be provided by what you call That's right. I wonder if you could tell me just what you Who are they for example? The professional intellectuals are, in effect, commander in chief is the philosopher. The fundamental ideas of a culture, is the man are all those whose professions deal with the physical sciences. The professional intellectuals, the rest of the culture, the rest of society, have been defined by the philosopher. Therefore the ones who determine the goals, the values, Is this true in any culture? Would it be true It is true in a civilized culture, but historically rather the intellectual is a very recent phenomenon. intellectual prior to the Industrial Revolution men could not make a living, could not make the intellect, reason, had no value in those of capitalism and of a free society that men, chance to make a living by means of dealing for the first time, and the height of it was which we are losing, and it is the intellectuals You think, then, that American intellectual Yes, collapsed and abdicated. How have the intellectuals failed to do the not lived up to their responsibility? By betraying the very premise that makes their For decades now, the intellectuals have been idea that the intellect is impotent, that is unreliable, and in effect man has no to men who, proclaiming themselves intellectual, intellect. That is a form of committing suicide. mystical, anti-intellectual philosophies as which cannot really properly be called philosophies, on the part of those who accept it. If in which is a doctrine originating about the word of the mind, it isn't I who am condemning their own actions. They have given up. They and have gone back to the mysticism of the Why do you think they've done this? Because, since philosophers are the ones who intellectual profession, the philosophies more and more towards mysticism ever since was the intellectual result, of the Aristotelian philosophy, which in effect destroyed in the But ever since then, while men, while the progress culminating in the 19th century, the intellectuals, ever since Immanuel Kant, reason. The trend started of course before and the crucial turning point. He was the He did not really succeed, but his is the the philosophical scene altogether, and to intellectuals accepted his basic premises, a noumenal, mystical world ever since. You mentioned Kant. You mentioned Aristotle whose influence was the world before the Renaissance? Before the Renaissance, the Middle Ages, the by religion and philosophy. And in those periods, theology. The predominant philosophical influence Augustine, who were philosophically Platonists. Thomas Aquinas, who brought back the philosophy part, epistemology, logic, reason. Well, what in particular about Kant's system for the trend that you see today in philosophy? Very cumbersome, very complex and very false man's mind, from reality, of declaring that what we perceive is only an illusion created by some special kind of categories declaring and allegedly proving, allegedly, are, which simply means that any object which is perceived, it means our perception is incorrect. of consciousness, not only human consciousness the reality or the validity of our perceptions. Well, if this is the situation that we're talked about the trend into mysticism, but of mysticism, but this is only one part of the mystics the Witch Doctors, as I remember That's right. - and you also talk about the rule of force so how do they fit into your framework? Well, you see, in fact reason is man's only the only means by which man can achieve knowledge the faculty which perceives, identifies and senses. Therefore reason is man's faculty work automatically. Men have to decide, will, sensory data or integrate sensations into form conceptions, they cannot form abstractions, function of man's consciousness. Since most to think, and they consider thought and reason an effort. Most human cultures with very rare Witch Doctors, and a Witch Doctor is any man his emotions, as his tool of cognition and of faith. He acts on the basis of blind beliefs, He is guided by his wishes, by his whims, on what level of culture you observe him, sense of his psycho-epistemology, of the way with other men, since on the ground of emotions the natural ally of the Witch Doctor will the primitive, savage tribal chief, the man on his immediate sensory perceptions, who ideas, principles, or abstractions, and whose men is by means of brute force. Attila is military conqueror or any man who believes to think and wishes to loot, enslave, or force with very few exceptions were ruled by an Witch Doctor, with the man of force, which goal and the values and the moral sanction today's world, you see the same phenomenon remains the same: a dictator, which is the theorists, the modern leftist, liberal, socialist They in effect provide an allegedly non-mystical for Attila and for the rule of brute force. are as much against the validity of reason I can see the relationship of what the mystic but what, why do the mystics need the Attilas? Why do the mystics -? Yes. Because a mystic's first and motivating Ah. Since he is a man who holds his emotions above and the facts of reality, will select his it, he cannot deal with reality at all, and necessity to deal with reality or with facts. He needs Attila to save him from the necessity livelihood, and to enforce his edicts on the Well, earlier you said that each culture should should be the people who more or less put That's right. It seems to me that there is another side, Well, science is a very recent phenomenon. century, of the industrial revolution, of mention the third type of man who has been society; he has been the forgotten and exploited by means of reason. That is the man who, in his immediate perceptions nor by his emotions That is the man whom I call the producer. values of mankind but also and above all the first producer in history in this higher sense first rational philosopher. Scientists certainly are supposed to be and by the nature of their reality by means of using reason. Unfortunately, profession, outside of their laboratory in other group of men. The fault is partly theirs Since there is no philosophical guidance at a Witch Doctor type of mysticism of their You mentioned producers. Aside from those what about the businessman? You've talked in this. Well, the businessman also is as recent a of capitalism, there were no professional intellectuals. Both the mind and material by the various combinations of Attilas and by an absolutist type of government, whether monarchies of Europe of the post-Renaissance goods, the traders, and the producers of ideas, were men without official status, without political rulers, which means at the mercy Revolution and the birth of a free society, a new class of men which is the free producers They of course are the producers in the strictest are the greatest victims of today's society. modern intellectuals, and in this sense both suicide by destroying each other, and the is the man who has to use his mind to deal goods. He is the man who serves as the transmission the products of science to all levels of society. scientists or of an inventor, transforms them mass production, makes them available to all man who has achieved the enormous, historically of mankind during the 19th century. He a producer and to the role of a rational creative him credit for it, have regarded him as if themselves, have been looking from the start of an Attila to protect them, the intellectuals, Well, you know, you've been talking about and I know that in your most recent book, you call the New Intellectuals. Would you own words, and how they differ from the old-style Since the old-style, presently existing intellectuals the intellect, what we need today, what I or woman who is willing to think - meaning, must be guided by reason, by the intellect, revelations. Any man or woman who values his cult of despair, cynicism, and impotence, the Dark Ages and to the rule of the collectivist The New Intellectual then you would imagine been any of this type in the past that you out? What type I would hold as the New Intellectual? Right. Well, only to name a few historical examples man I would take as the first intellectual The Founding Fathers were America's first were also men of action. They were the men that man can achieve an ideal way of life man requires freedom in order to be guided deal with one another by trade, by persuasion, Founding Fathers who established in the United society in history, and the economic system system was capitalism, the system of total, was the basic principle of the American way However, in practice, it has never yet been and economics had not been established from certain loopholes or contradictions were still American constitution, which permitted collectivist life, and today it is practically collapsing. tradition. The active intellectual direction and anti-intellectual. It is going back to and the rule by force. Therefore the New Intellectuals for two fundamental values: the value of their their self-esteem, their independence -- and which men do not use force against one another. You mention in your book, the latest one on in our Founding Fathers, talked about the think this is really important? I don't know what else could be any more The pursuit of happiness means a man's right and to achieve them. Happiness means that achievement of your values. Now what can be does not mean simply momentary pleasures or means a profound, guiltless, rational feeling achievement. It means the enjoyment of life, a rational code of morality. What that code interview, but those who are interested will find it in my books, particularly in Atlas Shrugged. Do you think it's important then that we I wouldn't even know how to answer such To put it in my terms, I would say it is important not the negative. The New Intellectuals then that you've talked formulating what we might call the solutions to mind immediately then the question, if someone wants to be a New Intellectual, how does he begin? Where do the New Intellectuals Well, they would need above all an integrated, Now to accept or define or even agree with requires very careful thinking, because an on arbitrary say-so. To acquire a new philosophy issue seriously and wants to become a New Intellectual, he would have to begin by accepting two premises which I call the basic minimum a man would have to prove them to himself, mind would be free to consider the rest or first two, which a man would have to define of reason to emotions and the evil of force of reason to emotion, means a man if he wants differentiate his thinking, his reasoned judgment, whims. He must learn that feelings, emotions, are the product of his premises, they are of knowledge and perception. Therefore the intellectual would have to accept is a full guided by reason and that it is only on the men and discuss, cooperate, or act with them he would have to resort to blind force, because two men act on the basis of their emotions, emotions are put in their proper place, which the leader of reason, then men have a common and a common frame of reference and arbiter, What about force and the use of force? Now, that is a basic social-moral principle no man has the right to initiate physical man has that right - [fade-cutoff] You have been listening to a discussion of society. Special guest on today's program whose analysis of the current plight of the hope for the future: Those who will accept the basic minimum toward the building of a new culture in the vacuum. There is an ancient slogan that applies Long live the King. We can say, with the same are dead, long live the intellectuals, and which that honorable title had once implied. This program was recorded in the University This is University of Michigan television.