Translator: Peter van de Ven If in rush-hour traffic, if you can see your neighbors without a twinge of jealousy; if you can love everyone and if you can always find then you're probably ... a dog. (Laughter) Right? We hold ourselves to these and then we judge ourselves The thing is, we're not supposed to be perfect; perfection isn't possible. But transformation is. All of us have the capacity no matter what our circumstances. As a professor and scientist, how people transform, and one of the most effective vehicles My own journey into mindfulness When I was 17, a metal rod put in my spine. I went from a healthy active teenager, to lying in a hospital bed, During the many months of rehabilitation, I tried to figure out that could no longer do what it used to. The physical pain was difficult, but worse was the fear and I simply didn't have So I began searching and eventually, this search led me for my first meditation retreat. At the monastery, the monks didn't speak much English but I understood mindfulness with paying attention My only instruction was to feel the breath So I began: one breath, two breaths - my mind wandered off; One breath, two breaths, sucked into the past and no matter how hard I tried, This was frustrating because I thought and instead, it felt more like this. (Laughter) Being present isn't so easy. In fact, check it out for yourself. I've been speaking have you noticed your mind has wandered? All of our minds wander. Research from Harvard shows the mind wanders, on average, 47 percent. That's almost half of our lives that we're not here. So part of mindfulness is simply learning to train the mind where we already are. Like right now; let's practice together. Allow your eyes to close, Wiggle your toes, and sense your whole body sitting here. Softening the face; softening the jaw; and notice that you're breathing. Feeling the breath as it naturally flows Just being here. And as you're ready, taking a deeper breath, in and out, So ... back at the monastery, to just be present. But no matter how hard I tried, And at this point, &quot;What is wrong with you? &quot;Why are you even here? You're a fake.&quot; And then not only was I judging myself, even the monks: &quot;Why are they just sitting here? (Laughter) Thankfully, a monk from London arrived, and as I shared with him my struggles, &quot;Oh dear, you're not you're practicing judgment, And then he said five words &quot;What you practice grows stronger.&quot; What you practice grows stronger. We know this now with neuroplasticity. Our repeated experiences shape our brain. We can actually sculpt and strengthen based on repeated practice. For example, in the famous study the visual spatial mapping part They've been practicing navigating When you look at the brains of meditators, the areas related to attention, grow bigger and stronger. It's called cortical thickening: the growth of new neurons What we practice grows stronger. The monk explained to me I was just growing judgment; meditating with frustration, He helped me understand that mindfulness it's about how we pay attention: with kindness. He said it's like these loving arms even the messy, He also pointed out moment by moment, not just when we're meditating, we're growing something in every moment. So the question really becomes: What do you want to practice? When I left Thailand, and I wanted to understand it So I began a PhD program, and I've spent the past 20 years investigating the effects of mindfulness including veterans with PTSD, women with breast cancer, high-level business executives, and over and over, First, mindfulness works, it's good for you. It strengthens our immune functioning, it decreases stress, decreases cortisol, When we published there were only a handful of studies. Now there are thousands of studies showing the beneficial effects It's good for us. The second thing we learned Almost all the people regardless of their age, were talking about the same thing. This underlying sense of &quot;I'm not okay,&quot; This tremendous self judgment and shame. And we all know because shame is universal; And worse, we have this mistaken belief that if we shame ourselves, we'll somehow improve. And yet, shame doesn't work. Shame never works; it can't work. Literally, physiologically, it can't work the centers of the brain shut down. This fMRI shows the brain on shame. What happens is the amygdala triggers a cascade to flood our system, and shuttling our resources Shame literally robs the brain of the energy it needs And worse, when we feel shame, so we hide from those parts the parts that most need our attention. It's just too painful to look at them. So what's the alternative? Kind attention. First, kindness gives us the courage to look at those parts of ourselves And second, kindness turning on the learning and giving us the resources True and lasting transformation The monk's words echoed in my ears: mindfulness isn't just about attention, This attitude of kindness wasn't it was an essential part of the practice, a part of mindfulness So my colleagues and I that explicitly includes as well as our attention. All three parts working Put simply: mindfulness is intentionally We used this model while working at the veterans hospital I was shocked to learn that we lose more veterans to suicide, Our soldiers carry so much pain and shame. So the intention of the mindfulness group even for the seemingly There was one man in the group Two months passed, he seemed unreachable. And then one day he raised his hand, What I saw in the war, what I did, He then looked down at the floor what he had seen, and what he had done. And I can still feel the horror and how his shame filled the room. I looked up to see and there was no judgment, I invited him to look up and to witness As he slowly looked around the room, and in his eyes there was hope, the possibility that he wasn't that he could choose differently now, This may be one of the most It's that transformation is possible, And it requires kind attention, not shame. And this kind attention takes practice; I want to share with you a simple practice Some years ago, I was and I'd wake up every morning My meditation teacher suggested She said, &quot;How about saying, I thought to myself, &quot;No way;&quot; She saw my hesitation and suggested, &quot;How about to just saying, Oh, and try putting your hand it releases oxytocin, She knew the science would win me over. So the next day, I took a breath and said, and it was kind of nice. I continued to practice, and a month later when I saw her, &quot;Wonderful. You've graduated,&quot; she said, &quot;Now the advanced practice: 'Good morning. I love you, Shauna.'&quot; So the next day, I put my hand on my heart, &quot;Good morning. I love you, Shauna.&quot; I felt nothing, except maybe a little ridiculous, But I kept practicing because, as we know, And then one day, I put my hand on my heart, took a breath, And I felt it. I felt my grandmother's love, I felt my own self-love. I wish I could tell you that every day since then and I've never felt and that's not true. But what is true is this pathway and it's growing stronger every day. So I want to invite you tomorrow, to put your hand on your heart and if you're really brave, Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)