So I know it's probably hard to tell, but I from the moment Ian Flynn was brought on it became one of my favourite stories. that wasn't the only comic he worked on--no, he was given the opportunity to work on Mega Man. Naturally, with my fondness for Flynn's work the Sonic comic itself, reading it was a I don't know really know anything about Mega Man. I mean, I didn't know that much about the Sonic of the games. But, with Mega Man, I hadn't touched and I just wasn't sure if it would Way more than that though, I was concerned about how Archie Mega Man wrapped up, I knew that last thing I wanted was to get invested in a But then I got up to the first crossover screw it. It's time to rock (Music plays.) Wow. This is... really good--an experience like me can enjoy. It's one of those the more I was left surprised by the fact I barely ever see anyone talk about this. I can't so many people who would love this Which is exactly why I want to talk the Mega Man comic that deserves to be remembered. But first... this video is sponsored by Boot.dev. Boot.dev is a fantastic program focused on and Go programming languages. Now, I've tried has always been that I end up feeling kind of... where Boot.dev comes in. See, their goal is to like a captivating RPG, getting you to actually go levels, achievements, and completing quests, they've made the whole process both digestible day no-questions-asked refund policy, and much of you either can't afford the membership currently So click my link the description and first month or even your entire first year Thank you to them for sponsoring, and thank In the world of Mega Man, everything can be and Dr. Wily--both of them genius innovators and where Dr. Light is rightfully celebrated for in this universe, Wily is... different. See, and builds weapons for the government, to him, ultimate goal is to progress and better humanity nothing more than a shameful stain on his life's weaponizing his creations, and where Light has Wily views them as little more than tools spawned outfitting his creations with the latest and it... And yet that drive is exactly what gets Wily he goes too far, creating a machine that even But in Wily's mind, he didn't do anything wrong So why is it that Light gets all the glory? Which is exactly where the comic begins. See, capable of helping the world in even bigger Though Wily has been instrumental in their having someone as controversial as hurt the robot master's reputations, great inventions before they're even able to At the same time though, how wouldn't this enrage And if the world isn't going to put his name in he'll have to write it there himself. And so and unleashes them on the city, violently Right away, Wily is a ton of fun--the type of energy can't help but entertain. His over-the-top all of it adds together to create a monster who, ridiculously evil. Contrasting him with Light a humble genius, and a loving father, forced into Naturally though, with all of the now someone is going to need to step up to defeat Mega Man. Except here's the thing... uh, he isn't. as he's originally known--is not built failure with a prior creation, Light vowed and eventually vowed to stop building built to be a son through-and-through. spends his days helping his father in the So when Rock sees what is happening--when to the plate not out of obligation, but out of can't stand to see his father upset. Dr. Light does what he vowed to never And though this transformation into Mega true start to this action-adventure most interesting about it were how would this kind of kid react to fighting, This is what I find the most brilliant Because while Flynn faithfully adapts the plot of darkness inherent to this premise to pull out robot master is depicted with striking paneling, see Rock slowly growing... disillusioned. He doing is destroying, and he hates that. The good set him on this path in the first place, but now begins to cope, gloating as he breaks apart so concerned with his change in personality Rock loses it, firing at the cage then he immediately stops and... breaks down, regretting this outburst as soon as it's LIGHT: &quot;I made you in my image. I built your a sense of justice beyond any compare. I gave hair. But this burden, this burning And this scene? It's shockingly quick, maybe of what I like about it. If Rock had truly gone have found it all that believable, at least not it's reframed as nothing more but a desperate to remind him that he is good, that it's it gives me a glimpse of their family dynamic, of Rock's good nature, allowing me to get invested expected this early. It's a striking depiction and how what Wily views as a weakness is From here, Mega Man faces the rebuilt robots different. Instead of fighting, he ... talks. He they were meant to do, that they can be something the fact remains that the robot masters don't them to destroy Mega Man, well, then they'll have So... they do. As Mega Man fights the copy saving him from a stalemate and fighting their logic. From there, Mega Man handily defeats other robot masters. And now, with his father's kindness even leading him to reach out to Wily the Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this arc--it's offering plenty of action and a glimpse at the heart of the series, at And then there's the Mega Man 2 adaptation. Yeah, it suffers from feeling far too similar to the robot masters, confront Wily, and yeah... this sure exactly the type of thing I initially worried novel story here. I mean, since we already saw these robots again, what's the conflict now? he defeats robot masters... so yeah, the core of first arc. That first arc also had a pacing an entire game into 4 issues--but a the robot masters? Each fight would just be the endgame was crammed into a single issue, and the dragon in this adaptation doesn't fare problems in those issues because I at least here? Eh, there isn't really anything like that. whole just comes across as fighting for fighting's Now, does this mean the Mega Man 2 adaptation is that Flynn's moment-to-moment writing is of one-liners, punny humour, and striking art from Ben Bates, who gives the entire I absolutely love. Additionally, those Light getting a bit of development as a goofy Mega Man. So when they now have to fight to that's a nice moment--a very direct way to make the world a better place by allowing more on the opposite end of that spectrum, you have a few rules to have his glorious fight with Mega filling the role of a rival character, but also completely destroyed during his battles because carries this arc hard and, by its end, he was Plus, throughout both stories, there's a certain... even if I had some pretty fundamental is presented here. I could just... feel the or at least their genuine efforts to make A huge part of this comes down to the art. for both this and the Sonic comic, had actually in the early 2000s. You can tell he really because he is a fan. And man, it is appealing. with dense but readable paneling that always have found these various two-page battles a bit squeezing as much excitement as possible out of Really, there are times where the presentation Then there's Matt Herms, whose colouring he handles the vast majority of colours from and contrast, the way he gives each blast and page in light . . . yeah, his work is certain grit to this world, bringing One of the most impressive things about the a handful of issues that dip a bit below the particularly impressive considering how comic across its entire run. I'm sure part of colours, but even so, while individuals I rarely got that feeling of, "Oh someone adjust to the new art style. Nah, the comic is it's one of the most consistently impressive So with all that being said... my feelings on this With its fantastic art, snappy dialogue, fairly entertained throughout. However, I will you know? Like I was happy to keep reading but I was waiting for something that And that's exactly what I got Spiritus Ex Machina. Now, if you're someone who's read the comic, you between 1 and 2, they adapted Mega Man Powered I skipped it. It didn't really do much for and some robot masters felt pretty flat, offering However, there was one thing about small character I found pretty darn intriguing: Gilbert D. Stern. See, Stern is a federal agent who's very... stuff. He also has his doubts that Wily taking it was made out to be, believing that Light it. And though his feelings toward Light and he definitely doesn't lose that concern about while it would have been easy for Flynn to write his own biases, I appreciate how his position comic is about how Dr. Light's robotic creations there. This guy has the right to be concerned, the that Light is going too far doing what he And so Spiritus Ex Machina takes crafting an entire storyline around the potential See, Light, Rock, and Roll have all made their Light will be debating about advanced artificial person debating against Light is one of his own master Tempo has been acting a bit... distant and another group forces their way into the want to entirely erase these AIs from existence to explode only once all the people have escaped. beneath the rubble, destroyed and discarded, And what I appreciate is how, once again, Flynn of a conflict. Because, despite the Emerald he really gives legitimacy to their position. not want to hurt any people, and believes that these machines he hates until they agree to question her position, she reveals the real who she had once built to be her daughter, was unable to bear the thought of nearly making her into nothing more than a tool. It's philosophical stuff hit harder on a personal react to this conflict. All the dialogue here never feeling patronizing or overly simple action-adventure comic marketed towards And then there's my absolute Xander Payne, its main villain. Where everyone else is happy to debate their his hands dirty. In a group of extremists, he knock out their leader and assume control have what it takes. He provides a startling, clearly driven by something far more personal. No have gone too far or offer him the chance to back "Whatever it takes." And what drives him to do all this? as the original robot masters were running contemplating whether or not they should attack. Elec Man hurting civilians, causing destruction, rushed in to stop him. However, in the he was nothing, and Elec Man incapicitated him while Xander was knocked out, his eye was that now only reminds him of the monster that I love this. Though it hadn't really the robot master attack hadn't been given as we're told they cause mass destruction, but makes us feel the weight of what happened. long-term effects of Wily's villainy. Whenever this is what a misuse of Light's technology or bravely charged into a battle he couldn't win, it would've been easy for Flynn to make Xander entire debate about AIs into a one-sided thing crafts multiple pillars, multiple nuanced takes and each and every one with their own perspectives And it doesn't stop there, either. In one of my into the future, into the world of Mega Man X. causing mayhem, but he also sees that the Emerald face with his deepest fear, seeing so much time Which is just... such a cool idea. I mean, this villain but also show how, in some Wily's creations will lead to even more they also lead to destruction and war. The exact type of future people However, at this point, you might Where's Mega Man? I mean, this is my favourite well... that's because he's... not doing saving people, doing everything he can to stop But they definitely aren't at the center as an action-focused B-story, a contrast and it definitely keeps the pace And yet, in the long run, I wouldn't really a comic being better when its titular characters but I'm not sure how long that'll work. After all, at least to a certain extent. So that left me characters, to take this comic to the next level. When I first read this comic, there the relationship between Light, Rock, and Roll . their biggest moment in the first four arcs. In and this is one of the comic's most central as a normal family. We don't get a proper idea of brutally disrupts it. As such, it often felt more than it's actually showing the specifics Now, I still wanna make something clear: I like earnest boy with a heart of gold, forced into a trying to save every robot master he can because better. Meanwhile, though there hasn't been nearly his relationship with Dr. Light is always pleasant large, Light himself is just a very well-defined Machina arc onward. Unfortunately though, that And the character who suffers the most here? only think of a couple sibling-esque moments Roll's positive traits are exactly the same someone who likely would have taken up this biggest difference is that she's a bit... firmer have much to make her feel distinct from Rock myself waiting for a moment where I would truly be Which is where the comic's 22nd issue comes into and he wants to confess his feelings Roll is entirely clueless, unable to and instead comes to her own conclusion about and that means they should hook up Tempo and her gave Tempo her feelings back so she could use some From here, the issue is just ridiculous--Ice across the entire story; Rock's earnest demeanor ridiculous desires, even if it takes him quite Tempo is just kind of stressed out by the whole new emotions to even give this idea serious so over-the-top and sassy and annoyed that are together. And that more aggressive side--it's that bit of spice that can not but also bring additional emotions and funny Now, I'm sure some find this more slice-of-life what like about it. Because now I've gotten at who they are when they aren't fighting is how they act. This is their dynamic. and Roll far more than I did before. Light debates with Stern about the ethics and when they happen to run into each other giving us better insight into how he views his However, that's not all we've got. Because even more out of this family--a character who (Music plays.) Before Rock, there was Blues, Dr. Light's very working on military contracts. As such, unlike son and a weapon. So sure, Light trotted out him culture and art and nature, the beauty didn't stop at viewing the world--no, he became I love this scene. Blues's innocent contrasted with Light's reaction, this mixture as Blues reveals himself to be so much And yet Blues is still a machine. Still a weapon. Still something that could break down. And what makes this relationship between how Light... fails Blues. No matter he still also sees him as a machine, as his will over Blues's. So when he and Wily argue going to go about fixing Blues's failing power Blues's. See, as an independent machine, Blues now has fears. He's afraid of his own death, afraid or that Light might even purposefully change he runs, leaving Light behind before he can This is already great. Not only does it makes Mega Man and Light's relationship more failures. Because now Light weaponizing Rock what kind of loving father would now it's specific--a potential repeat of the separate out robots made to be family and of Rock and Roll, those loving moments they is. It's a representation of his growth, of his From here, we follow Blues as he goes to travel there aren't any other robots like him out He's better off alone. He'l live a quiet life down. If he does that, he should be able to And yet, over and over again, when he sees people Even if it means that mortality he feared is simply who he is. And that tragic basis of gives him that something extra I've been Because for all of Mega Man's heroics, this he saves is one step closer to his own demise, So, finally, Blues's corrupt power core catches up Dr. Light showed him. And a blue bird, similar to him of all they did together, of the type of man he's been. Which is fantastic. Honestly, one of was to run away from Light and that it is prompted closer to his own death than ever before, Blues he was ready to die on his own terms, but he's as he says himself, "I was a fool." So he rushes (Music plays.) With this, in Blues's mind, his fears that could be replaced or improved are confirmed. hugging his father, taking his world can't bear it. So he wanders away once graveyard where he can be alone and where out on his terms in his way--because that That he is his own person. But someone's been hiding out here for some time Dr. Wily, whose new robot masters quickly find wouldn't let him all those years ago. He fixes He gives the Mega Man comic the Break Man. Because while I really liked Dr. Wily here, I as weird as that sounds. Sure, Mega Man had to Dr. Light, the man he feels so inferior to. But character who sees Rock as a representation who can't look past him because One of my favourite scenes in the comic talk with Tempo. After all, Tempo still what Break Man feared Light would--she Once again, Flynn's writing shines given the time and weight it needs because, and Tempo has needed to deal with that pain, but that her mother will reprogram her. each of his concerns, are met with the same BLUES: She toyed with who you are! You TEMPO: I can and I have. Because I want to move Light did nothing to you. Is the problem BLUES: He replaced me! And so now Break Man is on a collision course regardless of anything he does, will always wasn't a replacement at all but, instead, one of never felt so alone again. But only time will tell Then there's Rock, who wants to save all personal brother to face off against, while his there is the kind of deeper conflict that will And sure enough, it does. Every time Mega pulling out loads of emotions. Because much like all the people he saved. That part of him has make horrible mistake after horrible mistake--and he will help; he will regret when things Break Man--his inability to commit to a course and unpredictable, one of those characters So, that about covers the first half before the first Sonic crossover. Of and there are a few one-off issues I skimmed saves a bunch of people from a sinking ship Man. That one is fine enough and it does its even if it is basic in its execution. Then there's by directly contrasting him against the Emerald there's only been one outright bad Rock of Ages. Unless you're a big Mega Man fan, keeps getting sent forward more and more in time, stop this... time anomaly or - or something and Overall though, the first half of this comic Spiritus Ex Machina and Proto-Type and up for the rare less-than-stellar stories. to continue to get better, quickly This following story arc--Blackout: example of how much the series has grown conflict is still 4 issues long, it's multiple issues of buildup, and several I'd call this the comic's first big event--a placing many of these characters in new by giving this arc room to breathe, by giving time to dig into the character's emotions more, Right away, this plot begins light-hearted to celebrate all the good he's done, to Mega City. Meanwhile, some of the other robot get their bro for his birthday, before realizing "Gift card? Gift card." This is contrasted by the Wily of their rivals get all the praise and getting him to crash the party while he deals the mysterious alien thing that Wily's been Ex Machina, finally takes control - while, at the watching on in horror, revealing this other robot His first son. And so Roll tries to take matters MEGA MAN: Roll! And of course, it's right at this Ra Moon's plan is finally revealed: See, this technology that isn't its own--so it strikes, and freezing Mega Man in place as Much of what I've praised about this comic so and attitude, the wholesome interactions we watch Light's ideals play out. But all that before the crossover--Roll's proactiveness and Mega Man's heroism, the mystery of Ra Moon rapid-fire scene, where all these pieces collide showcase of Flynn's ability as a writer that he's way that doesn't feel mechanical. And, finally, darkness and destruction of what's happened here, as Break Man looks out on the destroyed city, Mega Man and a heavily damaged Roll caused he first looked out on the world he was This is literally the first issue following the done every single thing I hoped it eventually Well, we're gonna go for the comic's best have that deeper reason to care. Sure, he can save the world at large, but developed in the Valentine's day issue? See, he and a few of the other robot masters allows them to fight against Ra Moon, but it will help them rescue Roll. If they don't work fast she will die. So Mega Man is put in this terrible even happened here and, eventually, work with the first place. After his fantastic 2-part story this is an awesome follow-up, as Blues so clearly he can't quite let go of his grudge against Rock. working with him, that his good heart still keeps the type of test for his ideals I wanted to see. are--how far Mega Man will go to save everyone--and All of this leads to these moments--panels showing with that biological coating, and it's here that form yet. Because, though this disaster was only reliance on technology, it is still Light's work of Stern and Xander Payne are right when they if they weren't built with their advanced AIs, would they really be able to truly However, for all my praise of this even better--another piece of this plot See, much like the first 3 arcs, Blackout of a Japanese-exclusive FMV game called Super if not for my cowriter Hollie telling me. game adaptations that came before--it just doesn't I thought maybe that actually stemmed from but Flynn basically takes the premise and some highlights the aftereffects of Ra Moon's attack, gives a reason why Roll is out of commission and this story and builds something I by far prefer. happen much earlier than in the game, allowing giving him further presence as a villain and Which brings me to the man himself. Dr. Wily. From the beginning, this comic's a through-and-through evil and entertaining that he could become a better person or do he is the main villain of the series. place in the story, Flynn uses this as an See, throughout Blackout, Wily is exceptionally from Ra Moon. It's his first time getting major an arc, and it reveals a side of his character his sanity. But still, he holds onto his genius, Moon. In particular, the artists absolutely nail and yet how, through it all, he still remains Even though, of course, he can't. So by the end of the arc, the stakes are higher Wily forced to fight a new line of Robot Masters destroy Ra Moon. So, in order to defeat such power into his mega busters. But there's one It will break him. And for a moment, Wily's pride seems to... and maybe even touched, that Rock would go the same way he always has... only But surely it's all a front, right? vulnerable, so ready to be tampered with... (Music plays.) I love this moment--it's a true subversion of Wily would try and change Mega Man for his any other scheme he has in mind, he's jumped past he and Light work at bringing Mega Man fully could have changed his memories. He could have boy saved his life, saved the world, and it seems It's such an unexpectedly human moment for Wily. him take on a different flavour, too. Like here, On my first read, I assumed that this was just potential. Because now he's a man capable of in him. It turns this one-note evil villain as the series' main villain, will back-pedal, but And, sure enough, his plan is soon revealed--he returned with Mega Man to gain trust. But there is one thing he didn't It's too easy. Because Dr. Light just... believes him. but he fights for his freedom, for his right the police. Wily brought him back his boy, and Mega Man was there, saw Wily try to fight Ra too. Despite all the wrong Wily has done, it... shocks Wily. Of course, he had hoped so easy? When his supposed nemesis is so quick Without a doubt, this is easily just a masterclass in character-writing and where Wily is told that everything and he looks truly conflicted... man, the art to punctuate that, in a way, Wily is getting are already turning. The plan is already in On the other side of this, Dr. Light... frozen this... softness and understanding radiating that Light's optimism has never felt honest and pure. This relationship between but this right here? It represents one of the of the complicated relationship And yet... despite being given Wily still just can't let This whole section takes Wily from a good to Light's and Rock's good-hearted no matter how much they believe this man will be here to prove them wrong. But that same good heart he programmed into MEGA MAN: I'll be okay, so LIGHT: I am not fine. I am a fool. A the most powerful piece of machinery in of any scruples! But what else could I do? I lost one to him! I can't lose any more! No! And my designs! And my hopes! My dreams! friend. I trusted him. Because there is good in Dr. Light's reaction to Wily's inevitable time devoted to this slow build-up it's made clear that this isn't just Light's would be bad enough. This is Light's family Really, at the end of the day, this is what the ideals being tested by a world that is far crueler his beloved children, shining examples of the the the other hand though, there's Wily and those like There's a brave boy sent out Throughout the second half of this comic, his near-death experience, he's thrust into and convictions. He advocates for Wily, know that's a disaster waiting to happen. He his own death. He fights Blues, regardless of eventually, he battles another line of robot Now, at first, I worried that this would we're once again back to that gameplay structure, master. It would be very easy for this to feel too And yet... it doesn't. Sure, it's but Flynn hasn't forgotten what issues of build-up and character moments See, each and every one of these robot master perspective, of the things that fuel them as wanting to be the better predator, while in every case, the fights end not with but with the robot masters either or coming to terms with their demise, getting However, it's not just their ability feel more human. It's their relationship to spent more time together and have developed duty as they fight not only for themselves For example, Shadow Man. Shadow Man hasn't even he chose to of his own volition. Why? Well, Ra Moon. However, after failing in that trying to escape his own destruction--but asking him to join. He could have he took that offer and, now, he will Then there's Spark Man. Out of this entire line, he spends the most time thinking about his he's terrified. Mega Man already beat But then he thinks about the time they've shared... So he begins this fight with an anger and rage gunning not just to defeat Mega Man, but he isn't some monster. He's just an upset, sad guy All of this is such a great way to build on changing the robot master's corruption from and integrating it into their personalities they can learn and grow. However, they Free will. The choice to go against their similarities to people - by rendering made more relatable to me, and more And yet Mega Man pushes forward, reminding himself they can take their chip data, rebuild Which leads to one of the comic's Here, the recently-defeated robot masters are they'll be able to live a normal life. To them, this isn't normal. Back during the Mega Man 2 adaptation, I Quick Man. Where the other robot masters fought truly just wanted his grand fight with Mega And now, he's one of the robot masters who has fighting. He likes combat. So being reduced to a As for his brothers? Well, many of them agree. purpose Mega Man has been so hyper-focused on. And Mega Man needs to face his toughest lesson of all, Some people just don't want to change. This whole story represents a huge part of comic so consistently impressive and entertaining and he keeps challenging them on the core ideals Light's position never feels cheap. It's something in the face of creations or people who can't be far--never leaves me feeling like Mega Man or Light masters help. We see how they make the world a family members and those who are willing to After returning his brother to his family, Blues does what he always has in times sitting alone. However, soon enough, Wily This time, he wants Blues to kidnap And Blues... snaps. This was never the point. This others-of course he can't break apart a family, most. But that's when Wily finally drops the Blues's power core is still unstable, he can make it explode, taking not only his left without a choice, he gets Throughout the whole comic, Blues has been even if we knew he wouldn't commit to that. He still stood by a monster and if he had been allowed that easy out his family ties with Wily with little to no consequence... I And that's why I love that Blues doesn't His indecision led to this moment. Sure, he but it's not as though he's entirely he chose to trust Wily. He chose to shoot at Mega everything kept going further than he wanted, But now... he makes another choice. He returns to core. So Lalinde examines him only to find that... but it's not going to hurt anyone else. So to forgive himself, to make good with his quite yet. Because in yet another moment of And now it's time for him to handle Dr. that name Wily gave him, and no longer as Blues, his original name from a father No, now he will be... Proto Man. But what makes this so compelling to me is that, Man's identity crisis isn't over. Before, I got back with his family, which yes, that would always been a self-absorbed character, it only makes sense that, before he would need to accept himself, confront he's made. So Blues has completed a only that he never should have worked with Wily in Now he needs to face himself. In Mega Man's last fight with Wily, he was believes he's dead. Which means that the world... robot masters he's saved go about their work clearly happy. Really, this is the proof that But there's just one problem with that... Mega Man has lost his function. Here, Flynn once again shows how good he examining the things we've taken for granted though this is undoubtedly a change for Rock, who loves helping people, and as Mega Man, he he never liked the violence, but as he contemplates the purpose of his "Do I have to do what I hate But who's going to be the one it once again be Dr. Light or his one of the first robot masters he fought--one him. Rock doesn't love fighting. He loves he's still helping people, improving the Though Fire Man has appeared from time to time character, and that's exactly why this moment his good Rock has done. Even in ways he might not this robot is right here, proving he's correct, previously said to Dr. Lalinde, &quot;We it's the story's wonderful optimism shining However, there's one more character who has to with Wily's betrayal, Light is forced to faith in humanity at large misplaced? And if it But that's when Rock finally returns to stop being Mega Man. He doesn't need just like Fire Man told him, he And finally, the comic has come full circle-- to assure him that he is good, now Rock that his faith isn't always misplaced. "It never hurts to have a little faith." But then... they get a message. Another one of out eight of his robot masters to destroy Mega Mega Man isn't depressed as he runs off to This is who he is. This whole issue... No, this whole second a phenomenal job of building up this family, these and Roll--I've grown to love their dynamic, and the entire comic just keeps improving. having this many compelling character and all this exciting action--it could (Dissonant piano.) Yup. This is it; the moment I dreaded. The point end. There's just one more issue, consisting of each of them taking up one full page. There's a adaptations of the mainline classic games. Others never even depicted in the games--stories that will direct version of one of most recent story's Light's ideals and genius could and will lead to, the day, there will always be that embodiment There will always be Mega Man. This ending makes me feel... a lot it's a thematically wonderful send-off to the something of Flynn's plans going forward. On the having this great comic get cut short here... with this hollow feeling of disappointment, to see its story through to the end. Like this of putting the pieces in place. This doctor had particularly frustrated with Light's belief daughter. It's just such a natural way to build on ever before. Flynn clearly still had does have passion for this series. When UDON he was publicly messaging them for a chance vision to life. And as it often goes with these not only an alternative take on the series, but But at the end of the day... so what? This As a standalone story, it's a fascinating it also succeeds in making me want to explore of games. From every angle you can look at it, and care and love from every single artist these great X backup stories with some of Spaz's references to all over the Mega Man franchise y'know, not being part of the fandom. My co-writer even represent the sheer magnitude of visual nods But if this new Udon comic means that a their vision of the series? Well, I can't be Mega Man to come back. I want this story to be I'm really happy with what we got, and I found of the main story, 2 Sonic crossovers and arcs to enjoy. That's a better run than Which is really the whole point of this this comic is worth reading. And, if you your first time through), it's a pretty quick much like Archie Sonic, this comic deserves to Hey there, everyone. Thanks for watching. I hope to my patrons, whose names are scrolling on by. the cowriter for this video. You can find One of the pieces of music used was also a Romero. Hopefully I said that right. You can nice of them to let me use that, so... thanks