The south pole. We're going to the south pole. This is the rich people trip to the south pole continent. To the seventh continent. There are two ways to get to the south pole from South Africa it's the hardest, because you board a plane for 5 and half ours to get to the edge of the south pole or from Argentina and Chile where you get on a tourist ship for 14 days to get to just parts of the south pole this tail. But today, we're in Cape Town. This is the farthest point in Africa in the city of Cape Town. Before we go we had to prepare for this trip Because it's not easy. Let me sit down and explain. Now... This trip is very difficult and no airline or any company can fly to the south pole from South Africa except for this company. Yeah, they've invited me. Only 400 people a year can go there from South Africa. You can imagine how difficult it is everyone coming with me are all rich the richest of the rich. How rich do they have to be to go to the south pole. Let's see. I can either stay for 7 days or go for 1 day and come back. 7 days I'll be completely disconnected from the internet. Maybe there aren't many activities so, I chose to go for 1 day and come back. It's not a small plane! It's hard for a small plane to get there. Peace be upon the Prophet In the name of Allah. I don't know what to expect But I'm optimistic. Hit like I'll stay here for 2 days. We have a briefing I'll take you to it now. Let's go. The temperature will not be normal We have a briefing. Check this out This where we should buy some clothes. You have to wear layers. They say there's a specific temperature in which the airplane can land in the south pole. You can experience the temperature in this room! But, I'm not ready. There are special clothes for the trip. The onward ticket and the return ticket. This is the runway's name in which we will land. Okay... Tomorrow, at 4 a.m. we'll leave. The tickets are ready The boarding pass looks strange it's not like the one we usually get. Because this trip is not usual. Yes, to the south pole. Is the Earth flat? But it's weird because flying over the south pole is not permitted. If I fly over the south pole I'll get to New Zealand and Australia. Good morning! This trip... We'll get into the plane in a bit. At 4:30 a.m. Getting your passport just like going on a regular international flight. Thank you. This is the plane we're boarding. Looks like a presidential plane. So, why are we boarding this plane? and why is it so huge? and we're all going on business class. It's because this plane is prepared in case we couldn't land there we'll be able to come back. Wow, it's 6 a.m. And there's a 2-hour time difference there with London time. Airbus 340. It landed there for the first time in 2021. Look, everyone is on business class. This plane used to be owned by Emirates Airline until they sold it to this company and it started flying to the south pole. In the name of Allah we go to the south pole. a strange trip. You can't imagine where we're going a strange place I don't know in the hotel they asked me where I'm going I told them I'm going to the south pole and come back. The plane is empty, nobody is here. Economy. Yeah, it's a challenging flight. We're leaving, going south south from Africa. Now we'll see Cape of Good Hope. The farthest point in Africa. This is the coldest driest, and windiest continent. It's the farthest point on Earth. It has no people and no local residents. We have to prepare ourselves and wear layers. If you don't put on sunscreen they say you'll burn in 5 minutes. This is the largest desert in the world we're going to it. Wow, why is the light so intense?! This is the first... in the name of Allah I stepped into Antarctica. Where are we?! Where is my group? The light is so intense. I can't see! This is the snow removal vehicle. This is our truck. The sun is too bright I've no idea what's happening I'm in the seventh continent. What's that?! What kind of transportation is this?! The sun shines in these 4 months November, December January and February for 24 hours they're the summer months in the south pole. We'll get down now to the blue ice. This one of the activities that you can do in the south pole. Check out the blue ice. Look, these layers are all frozen. The plane's engine is still on. We'll stay 4 hours here. We'll then finish 12 hours when we leave this place. This is Antarctica. There are special trips that are very difficult. They also fly small airplanes from here to the center of the south pole. This is Antarctica Antarctica is a Greek word which means opposite of the north pole. The continent is called Antarctica the whole continent. But the south pole you need 7 hours on a small plane to get to it. That's the plane. a 7-day trip here costs one hundred and 5 thousand dollars 12 hours costs 15 thousand dollars. All thanks to you. It's because of you by the way. We're going underneath Under Antarctica now. Are you okay, man? Nobody controls this continent. Why? Because after world war 2 what happened was countries agreed and signed a treaty that no country should set a military base here and that it becomes demilitarized and it becomes environmentally protected and that no one should own it. This is the only continent that has no indigenous people! There are no indigenous people to discover their culture. Because nobody lives here nobody has ever lived here and it's the last continent the last place that humans discovered. This place is on Earth is the closest to the sun while the north pole is the farthest from the sun in this time of the year. So, there it's winter and the sun disappears for a long time. but here, below the Equator it's summer. And the snow's color reflects sunlight which can hurt the eyes if you don't wear sunglasses made for a place like this. Where are my sunglasses? I was just talking about them. It's an actual desert unlike the north pole. The north pole is an ocean. Of course his is the coldest place on Earth. Not the one I went to in Siberia This is the coldest place on Earth. Now, it's summer and the temperature -10, -20 degrees In winter it can get to -82 I have to catch the plane. It's an experience of a lifetime. Now, we went to 6 continents only Australia is left.