You know in Intercal. if PLEASE was not encountered often enough. The program gets rejected. I wish Git PRs were written in Intercal Do you happen to have a PS2 adapter for me? My main source of dopamine comes from arguing with 15 year olds who find my repo on the esolang reddit and start bashing it and then I bash them back This goes back and forth for a while until I can prove to them that I can write a highly efficient compiler in it. By that time they've already graduated and have no interest in computers. But the pride remains forever A Turing tarpit has the goal of making a Turing-complete language as minimal as possible In other words, we attempt to find the most effective way to waste time I try to put computer science concepts where they shouldn't be Super Mario Maker is Turing-complete Minecraft is Turing-complete Gentoo bootmenu is Turing- This is Goedelfish. This is an esolang by a triple math PhD who chose to write this instead of giving us the answer to the Hodge conjecture We thank him for this. This is SickPig SickPig is a variation of Pig that simulates a Pig that is sick. I am a huge fan of SickPig. I have too many computer science degrees to be employable at this point. There are perfect programing languages and then there are those that are used by beginners. Where's my Chomsky bookshelf Join the elite. The elite requires some form of masochism. technomasochism, It's the journey that matters. The longer the better Sometimes I write a MALBOGE program. sometimes I take about belt out and whip myself. Still better than JavaScript The key drivers behind every successful esolang Are you writing it down? Are boredom, ADHD You can usually find me in the socialism-discussion astronomy-pictures on mass-transit channel. You're supposed to flag yourself if you're neurotypical Deadfish and brainfog are the OGs then it goes INTERCAL Befunge '93 Rust. It is not known to what extent Mueller was aware or influenced by Boehms language P'' published in 1964, of which brainstorm can be considered a minor variation I create a robust, memory-safe elegant concurrent easily-readable language. with a great standard library and build system. Call it zig and I get death threats on reddit You come up with an esolang made of plusses and minuses and are called the King of computing. I have a dozen of compilers in my inbox by the weekend. There is chicken. but there is also chickenish. a dialect Writing a compiler in PIET. WHITESPACE. Nikita Ayzikovsky created a compiler which translates programs from the brainfog-like language smallfog into SMETANA While this is impressive smallfog is also bounded-storage machine without interactive input as such. SMETANA to Infinity! is an extension of SMETANA Well, this is standard literature. In this esolang you have a total repertoire of 3x GOTOs and 2x COME_FROMs I call it I call it Excel VBA I call it Excel VBA fixed. And here is chicken in deadfish running in a VM written in ArnoldC interpreted in brainfog on an x8085 system. You know any person in the esolang discord could write you a compiler much faster than everything on the market in a weekend. But no, instead they're creating brainjuice adaptations and writing Java for a living. Average rustling doesn't even know how a computer works. This is a list with 442 brainfog derivatives There's a whole science dedicated to minimize brainfog this is tinyfog a 4-instruction language This is SUBLEQ a 3-operator. 3-operator, 1-instruction language This is FlipJump a 2-operand, 1-instruction language Now tell me once more, you urgently need that one more operator in Rust. This is GenAlpha lang Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Sigma. Skibidi I have no understanding of teenagers under the age of 41. But this is genius. This one uses Steganography. The source has to be an image. This is a png image. Whereas this a program containing Epstein's client list This is 5D Brainstorm with multiverse time-travel which means you can go back to a previous state of the program. This is 5D 5D 5D Brainfog There are basically two entry points The main function and a glitch in the Matrix There's one that only consists of unix shell commands So you finally learn to master Solaris. &lt;i&gt;you mean Linux.&lt;/i&gt; What did I say? In Intercal 72 this can be DO PLEASE DO or PLEASE all of which mean the same thing to the program but using one of these too heavily causes the program to be rejected. An undocumented feature in INTERCAL 72. There was a mention in the C-INTERCAL manual though. Common knowledge. Shakespeare. Simple stuff. Shakespeare variations are boring. 99% interpreted 1% have my respect. This language. I still don't understand it. In fact, currently nobody does, which makes it so exciting. Arguing with these kids is so annyoing stop being weird and finish the esolang you promised us. Malborge is easy. Try Malborge unshackled, it enciphers each command So each time you run it you have to figure out... You know debugging this is like Spa to me. They think they're smart. Giving me harder and harder challenges. They don't know I have all the time in the world. The esolang space isn't as policed as the academic space. It is as policed as the anime space though. And I contribute to that space regularly This guy again didn't categorized his esolang correctly. ...has a 99 page documentation. but couldn't take a little bit of time to prove if it's Turing-complete. I wanted to use it. Maybe create a compiler in it. This is just another brainfog variation. Except this one can detect if the program halts. This one can detect if the program halts? This one isn't ready for finite state machines. It can't even loop. Get this away from me. Cat program or Truth machine or didn't happen This is FALSE Named after the author's favorite truth value FALSE Oh this? Oh this is just APL *parseltongue* Now this looks like a normal C program to you. But people don't know there is another program in WHITESPACE embedded there as well. Most esos are stack-based. Come on be original. Deque-based? I mean, this looks promising but does it satisfy HQ9+Quine? Okay did any programmer made anything useful with this? &lt;i&gt;yes&lt;/i&gt; Alright then it's not worth my time. Shared registers are not abnormal. I don't waste my time on things like that. AGI is a simple problem. Try a brainfog compiler in 34 chars. I only publish things that I find academically at least semi- or quarter-interesting or things that dump on JavaScript Not everything is about optimizing bf compilers okay. And here's how in Deadfish you print Antiestablishmentarism If I have too much time, I come up with too many problems maybe roll out a Linux distro. I don't know. I like this one in particular because it doesn't require variables and symbols and all of this bloat. Also, I like it because it dumps on Python. So this is BACKROOMS this is a 3-dimensional language with hallways, floors, rooms Errors are for beginners. We only do undefined behavior. Here you don't get an error when you miss an instruction. You just fall through the floors until python breaks. Also created this debugger. A good debugger is the basis of everything language. It's also not super golfed yet, but it's already super slow. Let me open the BACKROOMS IDE. &lt;i&gt;Really?&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;You have an IDE for this?&lt;/i&gt; Of course. What did I study computer science for? So here's whole world-guide got for it. I get payed to write highly optimized compilers for mission-critical software, they don't receive that much care. So in this cross-platform, cross-functional environment for BACKROOMS It's minimal. Turing-complete visually pleasing So here, for example, it's going down, and it's going left. Jumping to E-board. Then it's going to the right again. Read instruction and you know the rest. Right? Hold on, I forgot my syntax. I wrote this language like three languages ago. So let me show how I wrote this 3D game in backrooms. I'll just quickly fix the debugger before somebody notices the issue. &lt;i&gt;What are you worried about?&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;No one is using your language.&lt;/i&gt; out out, out Programs may create and traverse parallel universes in the 5D brainfog with multi- time travel. Each timeline can be executed simultaneously, which means, Are you following? Okay, but you know what a tape machine is, right? &lt;i&gt;an audio device&lt;/i&gt; What? What did we just spend the last two hours doing? Now explain it back to me in Backus-Naur form. I wasted my time. out out. out. I have to k* myself It's a very based low-level language. and dumping on better. programing languages JavaScript? If I get a full vacation, I don't know my how. I might finally risk. that's a with a back story. JavaScript? and runs in Python. It's always been. It doesn't go on aging or an operating system. This you know in intercal. six, six, six, with multi time trouble each Here's my idea. This environment API documentation, this is a three dimensional language. You don't want a two dimensional language. There are two points of interest from Maine and through a glitch in the process of clock. all of this once on one floor. is Jesse. Slop. Nancy I'll repeat for will see right now, 1.3. What's he pretty hard to see the ice three pee Me the ice. One more. Okay, my dog. but you have to be careful about pee. It can sex false. I have no understanding of teenagers under the age of 41. But this is genius. This is a list with foreign 42 great derivatives so a couple of brain fog thorough just being written right in this moment some by me almost like JavaScript libraries This discussion doesn't need anywhere. specification written after the author woke up in a deep sleep deprived alarm clock and dos days the morning breakfast with a friend had been flashed lot. Moments after waking up, the author fell back asleep. Breakfast was canceled The similar to the song story of JavaScript An undocumented feature in the Article 72. We've got to get educated. We want to try and use the language false. This is an esoteric programing language invented by Walter Falmouth, Mass medicine in 1993, inspired by Force for the suspect. This language invented by Charles H. Moore in the 1970s, inspired by his old custom microprocessor design. and atrocity is the part of film based language discovered by Benjamin Franklin, inspired by quite some thunderstorms. So I know what you might be thinking. Yes, Chuck Moore did, in fact, go on to write his own programing involving in full force. So the result was colored force, which looks even more beautiful Chuck Moore had a lot of time like lightning. I'm currently working on a no copy, so I I had for real several years, sometimes three months. The ones that I don't like are reasons, just the frameworks except these things all performed estimate doesn't do anything except high schoolers getting into web dev let me just turn to my eternal universe where someone on me came to stutter instead of JavaScript and we have free energy in teleporter. So all of that. problems too hard languages if they're too hard, users won't program them or worse, apply some cryptanalysis based approach to write them and at the end so successfully write program is like a march. So the idea was the language so hard that no use a little problem can be created in it in reasonable time, easy enough for no problem. As in to avoid a cryptanalysis. Well, a systematic approach to figuring it out. The goal is to maximize with the program hours We call the JavaScript. Everyone is competing to create the most minimalistic Turing complete language, and I'm winning the race. for structure language its and to be the only true brainstorm of someone active development since 2017. It's features include the lower three processor labels, precise floating point library, virtual instructions, effective addresses, Inside arithmetic python don't have this Smith Up to infinity is an extension of the metaphor, which has a way of specifying infinitely many steps. also has a facility for input you know what languages these have inspired, it's not on the list of Monday night beer programs, I'm considering it as playful. that doesn't have to be too complex, but if it is not on the list of 99 bottles of beer, I consider it playful. even above the script is on this it's art. black art. But it's art Continue. right to call from left to right, from right to left. reverse, horizontal, cross diagonal, cross dimensional. I see Some language is about text by some unknown text based images recalls query. 3D cycle is just applied to natural. I consider it Probabilistic cortical based P complete and complete and to see completely idiotic we need to minimize, this is a cross between fuel cell automaton racoon and a text system. easy maintainability takes from the record. I would like to declare this question. big shots. The one and only the singer. Single man has a half another half scrap passing Gotti on a scary cop car bomb. So this is a routine Three quick mass, quick assembly block, everyday minutes on the block. Yo, This is chagrin language again, not everything is easily Okay. I've seen one of your big shots. The one and only the singer. Single man has a half another half scrap about passing Gotti on a scary cop car bomb. So this is a routine two plus plus for minus one. Three quick mass, quick assembly block, everyday minutes on the block. Do you think you can make it more natural? Like, literally, I can't help feeling it doesn't need to be from there. Yeah. Okay. Yo, big shot. The one and only single man's got hot. Never hot. Scrub. Got economy, skinny cop, car bomb. Two plus two is four minus the one that three quick must block everyday events on the block. Y'all big shot. The one and only monster. Hot fuck never hot scrap fast to carry on them scary cop car And then the bomb routine and simple Two plus two is four minus one. That's quick quick mass everyday months on the block and then the block starts. All right. And now cut for now and wait with all the stuff. That's my sock walk Well let me open my main jealousy file of Shakespeare. Central stuff. I consider this character.