Makeup can be a tool for liberation and expression. It can make us feel beautiful, but one of beauty's most popular ingredients has a dark side. When children are the hidden cost in our cosmetics. Who's stepping in to help them out? And who's leaving them behind. We're here in London on a press trip with The British company invited us here to learn about an initiative surrounding one of the most controversial ingredients going into Mica. An unassuming mineral essential to modern The property of heat and electrical resistance For decades it's been used in everyday products But over the past few years the cosmetics has exploded. From the perfect, no makeup makeup gleam, for double taps. Mica is often a magic ingredient. But it also has an ugly side. The majority of the world's mica comes from investigation revealed that it was being mined The revelation forced the beauty industry Some companies have pledged to work with the supply chain. It's a lofty goal. With progress that's been slow to come by. Companies like Lush that have built a brand Without a transparent supply chain, it decided This glittering shimmery effect is all the It looks pretty but I'm about to find out might suggest. Much as I love sparkles, I didn't want know could have had a death attached to it. The nice thing about the synthetic mica is that you can get in the pigment. So really there's no reason to have natural It's much more complicated in that natural any product you use. You should not try to avoid mica. You should make sure that the families where wages get living wages. As corporations roll out initiatives with I'm curious to know how they're actually impacting the ground. Globally the mica industry is worth over half And India is at its center with the world's The majority of it can be found in the country's We're leaving New Delhi and we're about to Which is where a lot of this mining is happening. Jharkhand is a mining state with rich reserves Most of the nearly 33 million residents live mica mines dominate the trade. It's been this way since the 1980s when restrictive It's been a very long journey and we're trying Just because this is such a sensitive subject here. Now many of the mines are abandoned and scavenged, We're finally getting close because you can It's the first time I've ever seen pretty dirt. I met up with Rohit Gandhi our local contact Nice to meet you. Very nice to meet you as well. I'm gonna keep the cars ready just in case with these children come around. We should be ready to leave right away. Why would they be mad that we're here? They know it's illegal right to use children against the law. Just a few steps off the road. I start to see them. Children. Hard at work, mining for mica. They sifted through up here. It's all mixed with gravel, and then they'll and that then go and sell to somebody who will Pooja Bhurla is only 11 years old and has been mining mica since she was eight. How many days are you out here per week? Every day? Do you ever get scared when you're working Yes. Where are your parents right now? Jharkhand suffers from a classic case of the A phenomenon where areas with abundant resources corruption, and commercial exploitation. Despite the fact that this area is rich in Jharkhand has one of the highest poverty rates Many of these children including Pooja make But it can mean the difference between something What are the other children in the town doing? It's been estimated that up to 20,000 children are working all across the region Seeing these mines and meeting these children want anything to do with mica. This is incredibly scary and I can't even believe there's But it's also painfully clear that these children Can you tell me how old you were when you If you didn't have to mine, what would you Do you have any idea where the mica goes after Wait someone's...who's coming? We had to take off really quickly from that cause they knew that we were there. The mica trade here is built on a facade that Once the mica leaves the mine, it's funneled children ever had anything to do with it. Traders pedal the mica to intermediaries who mine from another part of the country. By the time the mica is exported, its illicit But back in Jharkhand, it's impossible to risks that go along with it. Cuts and broken bones. Respiratory illnesses that can damage or even And sometimes, the unthinkable. Surma Kumari and her sister Laksmi were mining in collapsed. Can you show me where you got hurt in the Do you and your family still work in the mines? The Kumari Family story is a common Lakshmi's death is just one of an estimated The unregulated nature of mica opens the door Families are trapped in a cycle of poverty. How much would the companies that are buying to school? To be able to completely change your life. It really hit home. For better or worse, the choices that companies people's lives. It made me look at my beauty products in a I've pulled out some of the products that There's mica in this. First ingredient. They all have mica in them. There's mica in all of these products. While I don't know if the mica in these used child labor, there's no transparency these products. These families all rely upon these mines and There has to be an ethical way to get mica There has to be an ethical way to treat these I wanted to know where the Indian government It turns out, the National Commission for been aware of the issue since at least 2016, When we reached out to them, they said they scope of the problem, and sent us to the ministry There is poverty and there is less spread ministry is making all efforts to see that So we were just in Jharkhand and we saw children working in the mines that are young as five or six, but your department Is that enough that's being done? Actually we are not aware of any such survey We have been told that this committee is doing How is that- We have not authorized it. As far as this ministry goes, the ministry labor is not exactly a mandate. It was alarming to realize that someone so little about this dire issue. While solutions may be slow to come from the some hope. A model that's been coined "the child to new income streams, so that their children So many kids. It's a concept piloted by the Kailash Satyarthi And it's working. More than 3,000 children have been rescued. More than three thousand children have been And they have been enrolled in school. Funding comes through government services conglomerate Estee Lauder. We thought long and hard if we wanted to stay And where we ultimately landed is that it's And having a stake means we will continue And it has been incredibly important to us community itself. It has been a long term process. And everybody has a role and responsibility to play in addressing this whole issue. This gathering of child friendly villages stay invested in the communities they work Thank you. I feel very welcomed right now. My name is Champa Kumari. Champa. Lovely to meet you. Champa Kumari is part of the most important villages. The Child Parliament. At 14 years old, she's a fierce champion What would you say to some of the companies from child labor. What do you want to accomplish next? You want to become a teacher? Yeah. You're a big picture thinker. I like it. Yeah. Promising to be mica free isn't the only, Mica is the lifeblood of this region, and will make a real difference must acknowledge that. It's empowering kids, like Pooja and Champa, that keeps this region and its children chained Thanks for watching Refinery29. For more videos like this, click here. And to subscribe, click here.