Welcome to my complete CCNA, Cisco Certified This is Jeremy's IT Lab. This course aims to be a complete course for pass the exam, all 100% free. Stay tuned till the end of the video for the in this video. Also, remember to download and use the Anki Let's get started. This second lesson is about interfaces and In the last video we talked about some different This lesson will focus on how we connect them, Wireless connections are also a topic we'll Take a look at this photo. This is the front of a switch. Notice the 24 interfaces, also known as ports. Remember, as we learned in the last lecture, tend to have lots of interfaces to connect Now let's look at that those words above I'll zoom in. 10/100/100Base-T ports (1 - 24) - Ports Unless you've already studied this stuff, Don't worry, by the end of this video you'll Now let's focus on the interfaces themselves. I'll zoom in again. Do you recognize this shape? If your computer is connected to a wired network, to the network. These are called RJ-45 ports. RJ stands for Registered Jack, by the way. Let's look at the RJ-45 connector at the before. These are all cables with RJ-45 connectors. As you can see there are some variations in would fit into the ports we saw in the previous The RJ-45 connector is used on the end of There are Ethernet cables which do not use that later. First of all though, what is Ethernet? Ethernet is a collection of network protocols and standards, So really Ethernet isn't one single thing, it is. For the purpose of this lesson, we will focus standards. As said above there are many standards included is interfaces and cables, so that's what However, we will learn other aspects of Ethernet Now, before we learn about Ethernet cable of why we need network protocols and standards. If two people are talking to each other, and speaks Japanese, there's not going to be What they need is some agreed upon system them. Network protocols serve that purpose for network That's why standards like Ethernet exist. Since we're talking about interfaces and example. If you're trying to connect to, for example, and the maker of the switch haven't agreed port, you won't be able to connect them. That's why there are industry standards physical standards like connectors and cables like IP, the internet protocol. Now, connections between devices in a network These speeds are measured in bits per second. What is a bit? Well it's a value represented by either This binary code is how computers work. YouTube, this video, your operating system, your computer interprets. When communicating across a copper network is interpreted by the receiving device as So, that's a bit, what's a byte? Here we have a series of 8 bits. 8 bits is equal to 1 byte. Now, speed is measured in bits per second. Imagine a byte, 8 bits, of data being sent along a It reaches the neighboring device one bit It doesn't operate one byte at a time like So, remember, speed is measured in bits per per second, gigabits per second, and not bytes Data on a hard drive for example is measured is actually 8 times larger than a gigabit. So let's review some of these measurements. 1 kilobit is equal to 1,000 bits. Add three zeroes to that And you get 1 megabit, which is 1 million Add another three zeroes, And you get one gigabit, or 1 billion bits. Add another three zeroes to that and you get one terabit, 1 trillion bits. You're not going to see larger units than you're not going to see terabits either. Speeds are always increasing, however, so soon enough! Now, there are further units, here's a snapshot Beyond terabits there are petabits, exabits, Don't worry about memorizing all of these speeds like these anytime soon! Okay, finally lets talk about some Ethernet These are all defined in the IEEE 802.3 standard. The IEEE is the institute of electrical and You'll notice all of these Ethernet standards Let's take a look. So, here's a table of some IEEE standards We'll also take a look at fiber optic cables them up. We have one for each of the common network megabits per second, 1 gigabit per second, The next column lists the common names. These are the names we usually use when talking and their speeds, for example in a work environment. The next column lists the official IEEE standard You would probably never use these names when a cable, but you should be familiar with them. This next column lists informal standard names 10 base-T, 100base-T, 1000base-T, and 10gbase-t. The numbers obviously refer to their speeds. How about base and T? Well, base refers to baseband signalling. That's totally out of the scope of the CCNA, T refers to twisted pair cabling, and we'll Finally, the maximum cable length. Notice that all of them are 100 meters, that's as defined in Ethernet, for performance and So, that's a lot of information, but I recommend It may seem difficult, but with the flashcards easy! So, don't forget to download and use the your own if you want. Okay, now let's continue and look in more The copper cables used in Ethernet standards UTP stands for Unshielded Twisted Pair. Unshielded means that the wires have no metallic eletrical interference. The Twisted pair part is easy to understand four pairs of cables twisted together. The twist actually helps protect against eletromagnetic So, there are four pairs of wires twisted Let's take a look at one of those RJ-45 If you count the number of pins here, you'll number of wires we saw in the last photo. However, not all of the Ethernet standards 10BASE-T and 100BASE-T, also known as Ethernet 4 wires. 1000BASE-T and 10GBASE-T, however, use all Let's focus on the first two for now, 10BASE-T So, let's say we're connecting a PC to These numbers represent the pins on the RJ-45 switch's interface. There are 8, but we will only use 4, or 2 connection. The first pair is at pin positions 1 and 2, and will connect to pins at positions 1 and Although in this diagram the wires look straight, twisted together, so in a real cable these like in the photo we saw. The PC will use pins 1 and 2 to transmit data which we can write as Tx. Because the PC is transmitting data on pins pins, it has to receive data which we can write as Rx, on pins 1 and 2. There's an important point to remember here. The network interface card on a PC or server on a switch receive data on pins 1 and 2. Now, the next pair that is used in a 10BASE-T It's 3 and 6. And, of course, the function of each pin is On the switch, Pins 3 and 6 are used to transmit Data, and Pins 3 and 6 and used to receive data. This allows what's called Full-Duplex transmission. Full-Duplex transmission means that both devices like collisions will occur because they use Just like that, both devices send data at Let's change the device on the left from Just as a PC usually connects to a switch, Once again, it's a fastethernet, or 100BASE-T 3 and 6. Now, which pairs on which side are used to Well, we know how a switch functions from Pins 1 and 2 receive data, and pins 3 and 6 transmit data. How about a router? Well, the network interfaces on a router transmit PC's network interface card does. A router transmits data on pins 1 and 2 And receives data on Pins 3 and 6. Again, Ethernet uses full-duplex transmission So the two devices can send data at the same So remember this, Routers transmit data on 6. This is the same as a PC. Once again, switches are the opposite, they data on pins 3 and 6. When connecting a PC to a switch, or a Router Because they transmit and receive on opposite well. This kind of cable, by the way, is called Remember, a copper Ethernet cable has two This kind of a cable is called a 'straight connects straight through to pin 1 on the other end. Pin 2 connects to Pin 2, Pin 3 connects to Now, in networks we don't always connect What if we want to connect a router to another Or maybe a switch to another switch? Or maybe connect two PCs together? Now I've replaced the switch on the right What will happen if the router on the left Well, it's simply not going to work. The right router isn't prepared to receive so communication between the two routers just So, how can we successfully connect two routers Or perhaps two switches, or two PCs. The same thing applies to connecting a PC transmit data on pins 1 and 2, and receive Let's take a look. I've replaced the two routers with two switches, If the switch on the left tries to transmit work. The answer to this problem is a different A straight-through cable connects pin 1 to But there's another type of cable, called In a crossover cable, a pin on one end of same pin on the other end. Essentially, the pairs are reversed on each So, pin 1 on one side connects to Pin 3 on the other side. And pin 2 on one side connects to Pin 6 on the other side. As you can see, the two pairs, 1 and 2, and Then, pair 3 on the left side will connect And pin 6 on the left side will connect to The wires are 'crossed over' each other, The transmit pins on one side are connected now the two devices can send data to each Here's another example. Again, the network interface card on a PC transmit data on pins 1 and 2 and receive them together with a crossover cable, they Here's a chart reviewing different device receive data Routers transmit data on Pins 1 and 2, and Firewalls are the same as routers, they transmit 3 and 6. PCs also transmit data on Pins 1 and 2, and Switches are the only different one of the Switches transmit data on pins 3 and 6, and Try to remember these. The flashcards included in the description use them! While all of that is important information even in the modern day, the truth is that beyond having to worry about straight-through That's because newer networking devices Previously, if two switches were connected would be unable to communicate. However, Auto MDI-X allows devices to automatically data on, and then adjust which pins they use They can then exchange data normally. So, unless you're working with network equipment to worry about straight-through and crossover But this is good information to be aware of, of auto MDI-X, both for the exam and for real world So, we've talked a lot about 10BASE-T and copper ethernet cables? Remember, I said before that for gigabit ethernet The last two pairs are 4 and 5, and 7 and Again, there will be flashcards to help you It may seem like a lot to memorize, but if how easy it is to remember all of these things. Now, here's another big difference between 100-base-t. In addition to using all four pairs of wires, bidirectional, meaning each pair isn't dedicated data. This is part of the reason that they can operate Okay, we've covered a lot about connections But there is a newer technology that is superior For example, copper UTP wiring can be used that's usually plenty within a LAN, but Look at this Cisco switch here. Here it has 24 ports for RJ45 connectors. These are the ports you would connect a copper But what about these four interfaces? Take a look at this Cisco router also. It only has four RJ45 ports. The rest of them look like those other four In these interface you insert one of these It's called an SFP transceiver. SFP means small form-factor pluggable. So you insert one of these into the device, What kind of cable connects to one of these? You connect one of these cables. This is a fiber optic cable. Rather than an electrical signal over copper fibers. Notice that there are two connectors on each That's because you need one connector to each end. The copper UTP cables used separate wire pairs The fiber-optic cables instead use separate Of course, 'transmit' on the left connects on the right connects to 'receive' on Now let's examine the structure of the cable There are four numbered parts in this diagram, Number 1 is the fiberglass core itself. Light is transmitted down this core to transmit Number 2 is cladding that reflects light, Number 3 is a protective buffer, which protects and number 4 is the outer jacket of the cable. Now there are a couple main types of fiber-optic single-mode fiber, and multimode fiber. Let's check out their characteristics and These are two examples of multimode fiber The center represents the fiberglass core, that reflects light down the cable. In multimode fiber cable, the core, the actual This wider core allows multiple angles, known glass core, as you can see in these two diagrams. Notice the red and black lines representing core, reflecting off the cladding at different Multimode fiber allows longer cables than still shorter than single-mode fiber, which Multimode fiber cables are cheaper than single-mode transmitters, which are often LED-based. This is an example of a single-mode fiber Again, the center represents the fiberglass cadding. The core diameter of a single-mode fiber cable the glass fiber is thinner. You can notice this in the diagram here, compared Light enters at a single angle, known as a Notice in the diagram that the light wave Single-mode fiber allows longer cable lengths And single-mode fiber cables are more expensive expensive laser-based transmitters used. Okay, now let's look at some standards for Here's another chart like the one we looked for fiber-optic cables. First up is a standard for 1 gigabit ethernet It is defined in the IEEE 802.3zed, or zee, This standard can be used over single-mode the difference in the maximum cable lengths, or 5000 meters, for single mode fiber. Next up is 10GBASE-SR, defined in the 802.3ae second. It uses multimode fiber and can support cable Next is 10GBASE-LR, also defined in the 802.3ae second. 10GBASE-LR, however, uses single-mode fiber, Finally 10GBASE-ER, also part of the 802.3ae second. It supports cable lengths even longer than possible over a standard connection. This is just a sample of fiber-optic standards, I will include flashcards to help you remember you'll be asked questions about specific details about the for sure. However, with the flashcards it's quite so I recommend not deleting those flashcards, Finally, let's review by comparing UTP cabling Copper UTP cables are cheaper than fiber-optic Maximum cables distances for UTP cables are UTP cables can be vulnerable to electromagnetic cable pairs helps to protect against this. The RJ45 ports to which UTP cables connect connections Also, UTP cables emit, or leak, a faint signal be detected and used to copy data, posing Now let's look at fiber-optic cables. Fiber-optic cables are more expensive than They support longer distances than UTP cables. Their SFP ports are more expensive than RJ45 expensive than multimode. They do not emit any signal outisde of the Okay, so we covered a lot of information, materials for the video that will help you Like in the last video, there will be an end-of-video Also, I have made a deck of flashcards to help you check the link in the description to download And there will also be a practice lab using separate video. Okay, let's get started with the quiz. Quiz question 1. You connect two old routers together with sent and received between them. What could be the problem? A, they are connected with a straight-through B, they are connected with a crossover cable. or C, they are operating in auto MDI-x mode. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is A, they are connected with a let's check each of the possible answers. A crossover cable is not the issue. In fact, a crossover cable would likely fix the issue. Because both routers transmit data on pins properly connect the transmit pins on one (3 and 6) on the other side. Modern devices with Auto MDI-X enabled don't old routers do not have Auto MDI-X. So, b, they are connected with a crossover Auto MDI-X allows devices to detect which transmit and receive data, and adjust their Actually, Auto MDI-X would likely fix this might not have the Auto MDI-X function. So, c, They are operating in Auto MDI-X mode, On old devices without Auto MDI-X, a straight-through the same type. A crossover cable is necessary. So a, they are connected with a straight-through Your company wants to connect switches in meters apart. They want to keep costs down, if possible. What kind of cable should they use? A, UTP. B, Single-mode fiber, or C, multimode fiber. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is C, multimode fiber. Let's check. Although UTP would keep the costs down, it So A, UTP, is incorrect. Although single-mode fiber supports distances than multimode fiber. So b, single-mode fiber, is not the best answer. Multimode fiber supports distances over 150 fiber. So C, multimode fiber, is the best answer. Let's go on to question 3. Your company wants to connect two offices They want to keep costs down if possible. Which kind of cable should they use? A, UTP, B, single-mode fiber, or C, multimode Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is b, single-mode fiber. Let's check the answers. Although UTP keeps costs down, it does not So A, UTP, is incorrect. Although multimode fiber is cheaper than single-mode kilometers. So c, multimode fiber, is incorrect. Many single-mode fiber standards support cable Although single-mode fiber is more expensive this case. So B, multi-mode fiber, is the best answer. A switch has the following indication over if you connect it to an identical switch with A, they would operate normally. B, they would operate at a reduced speed. or C, they would be unable to communicate. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is a, they would operate normally. Let's check. They would not operate at a reduced speed. The ports are Auto MDI-X enabled. However, even if they didn't have Auto MDI-X, They simply wouldn't operate. So b, they would operate at a reduced speed, Because the ports are Auto MDI-X enabled, they are connected with a straight-through So c, they would be unable to communicate, Because the ports are Auto MDI-X enabled, whether they are connected with a straight-through So a, they would operate normally, is the Let's go to the final quiz question for Your company needs to connect many end hosts the same office floor as the hosts. What kind of cable should they use? a, UTP. b, single-mode fiber, or C, multimode fiber. Pause the video to think about your answer. The answer is a, UTP. Let's check the answers. Most hosts do not have the capability to connect do not have enough SFP interfaces to support So b, single-mode fiber, and c, multimode UTP cables are the standard for wired connections Switches typically have many RJ45 ports for have an RJ45 port on their network interface So a, UTP, is the correct answer. Thank you for watching. That's all for this video. If you want to show your support, please subscribe and share the video with anyone else studying I accept donations via cryptocurrency or Patreon I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept Brave browser. Click the link in the description to check you to surf the Internet. That's all for now.