Martha Beck: Most people when they want to say to become victimy and say, I can't because of the person always thinks of a way out of those Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, where his wife nightmare. You're going to get stabbed.&quot; &quot;Go tell the council Caesar will not come. falser still. No, go tell the council Caesar And there have been really good studies one study had a control group, a group and a group that did nothing but eliminate their responses. Instead, they had to say, &quot;I won't.&quot; And they came out of their *** to finally connect and to see your face. Tim Ferriss: I really, really appreciate Martha Beck: It's my honor. I gave your 4-Hour &quot;I want you to learn the way this study his mind. It is your new Bible.&quot; it didn't turn them to the Martha Beck: Oh, they're atrocious. Yeah. end. So thank you. Thank you, Tim, for derailing talk about a mutual friend briefly, because our even though I had observed you from afar for who don't know Boyd -- Tim Ferriss: He's the author of The Lion Tracker's right behind you, beautiful little book, which of a guy. He's one of a kind. Tim Ferriss: And I wanted to ask you to two of you connected. such a strange thing. I mean, he's told me the in a weird period of my own life. I'd written a didn't like it. And I was getting death threats a book tour in South Africa. And I went to my called Londolozi where I'd been once before. the thing I'd been looking forward to. And I felt and whatnot than I did anywhere among people. I of am, but I was really terrified at that time. was supposed to be taking me out on safari, and right. I didn't really care. But we got talking I'm 43, I think. So we start talking, housewife be. I don't know how, within five minutes and we were laughing at each other's jokes, and we went back to the game preserve And he told me, &quot;You know, my family's times. They've had really strange legal things going through in some ways. So I felt really he doesn't understand really what the dynamics I study psychology as my trade. So I started to meet my family.&quot; I didn't know that his family had started it and reforested it and everything. sister, Bronwyn, and his parents, Dave and as I could about how to deal with attacks from almost anything, but psychopaths were this small plane. They held the plane for an the plane and I had a copy of Dave's book. Dave And I got on the plane and they shouted you can stay with us.&quot; And I got on the plane with friends. And I read Dave's book on the plane, Bronwyn, and his mother and their teacher were and Boyd woke up with a gun in his mouth. The and woke him up that way, and they were tied up And so I'm on the plane and I'm sobbing to my best friends. And I was like, &quot;You could it's a good thing that flight was really long, Boyd and his family, and I have ever since. It's back, and we've done things together and he's what I could teach him. He's learned so much more bond that formed between the most unlikely pair in the world, in my humble opinion. Also, an incredible storyteller. And as you types of threats. Tim Ferriss: And I suppose this will probably almost was eaten alive by a crocodile, right? Tim Ferriss: His leg still bears incredible mouth. And yet there are certain things we like modern-day psychopaths, as one example. Tim Ferriss: Of any era. And there are a few to give a kind of hats-off bow to Boyd, who ever heard in my life. So for those -- he might be the best storyteller in the world. podcast with Boyd, I encourage you to check that Tracker's Guide to Life, which has stuck with me line from Renias, this master tracker who says, &quot;I how to get there.&quot; And I think that's resonating I'm less familiar with, but in the process of across this on your website actually, and it's websites, so you can't believe anything you read. Boyd, Tim. We just need to accept it. to come up with a custody plan. So he has the path of not here. Now, I have not heard him say Martha Beck: Well, we're out wandering around porcupine with Boyd and it was easy on the road the porcupine left the road and it was just know what he was looking at, but he kept walking time, and I'm completely lost.&quot; And he said, is the information that the place you are you want to end up.&quot; And that is an incredibly Every time you realize you're in it, you have without recognizing that this is the path of not they're almost always way into the path of not awful, whatever. And they've just kept going and up and seen that there's not been a footprint Boyd found the porcupine den in the middle of a I don't know how, but he was quite pleased. these expert trackers track his is akin to different plane. But for them, it's very very little mystical about it. It's very Martha Beck: I call it the technology of magic, someone from an uncontacted tribe in the Amazon an &quot;No, no technology.&quot; When people are using these it looks like magic. And we say, &quot;Magic,&quot; and first tracking lesson I ever had with Renias who especially to a female, because they don't just walking along. He's not saying anything. He and then he just stands there, doesn't say a print and it's obviously a lion. So I'm like, And he just stood there and I kept looking at it. just shifted it like a quarter inch to one side. been disturbed in exactly that way. And suddenly shifted that left paw, that left hand, just that over his left shoulder, and that had made a slight the lion was either looking at something, one and he was going to go around to that spot, so we at that significantly. And I remember it's like you only know a couple of words, it's magic. else. There are levels, and then there are of a quote that I really enjoy from the very much Martha Beck: One of my faves. Martha Beck: I bet I know the quote. lot of books and the quote is, &quot;Any Martha Beck: -- indistinguishable from magic.&quot; of not here. If we could talk about a practical Boyd credits you with, in a way, rescuing period of great difficulty. Tim Ferriss: And I would love to know or maybe to be more specific, what are some with Boyd that might be instructive in terms of Martha Beck: Okay. So the first thing is this because people get worried when we talk about this. I watched it again. And you start out talking about being in a depressive period and so surprised to hear that there are people was how you spend a Thursday. I remember sitting called it the Lament Library, because all these It was a freshman library, right? Martha Beck: And I was like, &quot;Why stick around? die, so why not get off the bus now?&quot; And only possible reason for sticking around, and I its own excuse for being.&quot; And I thought joy is I can experience that makes it worth sticking I shifted my entire life toward a sort of very not? And joy became the track I was following. lost the track of his joy a long time before. taking some people out in a seminar and having way you track an animal, but the track you're simple to put it that way. And I think that's the &quot;Boyd, you have to find joy in your body.&quot; And it wasn't just the break-in. I mean, he tried to in, the guy died. He was basically boiled He's been attacked by more deadly animals you can even imagine. So here was this guy and he had long ago gone numb. And the funny haven't had such a wild life who are sitting under far off their track as he was. They're almost as joy. It's like oxygen. It doesn't matter how you So I remember when Boyd and his sister came and I put them through a kind of American therapy, floor and watch Eddie Izzard routines on TV while And they had just worked like mules psychologically worked. And they were like, &quot;When eat, laugh.&quot; And at the end of the three days, I which is the first step toward joy in and we think that thinking is superior to the late in evolution. Our cognitive minds process nervous system of our entire bodies is processing The body is smarter than the mind. That is a if you haven't found joy in the body -- podcast. We have time. say you wanted me to tell stories. So, and I saw his shoulders open, and I saw him smile &quot;There you go. That's the track. That's what we're years and years of wonderful conversations.&quot; Boyd probably just as an instructive case but I would love to ask you about re-attuning to I'm asking because as I've done research for this so much, I've noticed that you have a prodigious you mentioned Harvard and 17, which is not an you seem to have a lot of horsepower between the but generally, when I encounter that and maybe you get rewarded for using this analytical attuned to the physical body. So I'm curious how specifically, this may or may not be related, but interactions with animals and if that is related. brutalize my body when I was -- I mean, that year and trying to eat less than a thousand calories a I got sick. I got very sick with a multitude of that I was the greatest threat to my own health. I was in a lot of pain for a long time. Went and got engaged to another -- we, Mormon -- I So I got engaged and married another guy from my and my Ph.D., and we had a daughter. And was halfway through my Ph.D. I was caught in pregnancy. And because of that, they ran a bunch fetus had Down syndrome. And I had two weeks don't know if you've ever been pregnant, Tim. suspected, though, at points. People say Martha Beck: Yeah, you do look really flush. bonded so strongly with the second one that even go,&quot; it just didn't -- he was already my child. I'd everything, and I couldn't do it. I've advised terminate their pregnancies in similar situations. gynecology and obstetrics at Harvard at the time, were five of them. They all thought that I was head honcho came in and told me, this is having And I remember looking at him, and I was being and stuff. Oh, it was such fun how I laughed. &quot;You need to do this. You're going to ruin life away.&quot; And I looked at him, and suddenly, curious. And it was as if there was a face that he And then, right behind it was this terrified face, but when I saw this, I was fascinated. know anyone with Down syndrome?&quot; And he was very with that.&quot; And I just watched him and I thought, thinks I'm making a mistake to keep the stupid a stupid little boy inside him and he's trying to Harvard because he knew he was smart. He ended he was stupid. He wanted to prove he wasn't. the reason for my life is joy. I don't see joy on understands his own path to joy at all. And I Down syndrome can experience joy. And he said, &quot;I no, I think they can.&quot; And right then, everything out to here. Everybody knew. And I would go &quot;You've got to put this child in an institution. at their little offices and their little piles of joy? Do you live in joy? Because if you don't, obsession with intellect that I had learned not That's when it really shifted for me. and I'm sure we will come back to pieces of or teach people to re-engage with sensitivities put offline or deliberately put offline? Martha Beck: Yeah. I can't teach it. I can't unfailing ally, and its name is suffering, we suffer. And that's the only thing that gets &quot;Maybe, just maybe, I need to find another Tim Ferriss: Oh, for sure. Earlier, I promised I give Boyd a little sloppy kiss on the cheek again. book. It certainly was in the curriculum when and other incredible trackers. Losing the track is You are almost never going to A to Z track part of good tracking is finding the track again he's on the path of not here, I'm sure of what narrative that -- I don't want to -- can't defend himself. Let's just do this. So you're welcome, Boyd. And just using Martha Beck: No, because we love him so much. some of the things, once you'd fed him ice cream what happens then? What do you do with -- once you Martha Beck: The first thing that happened for for a rhinoceros. They're fairly easy to track. the first thing they do is they show you what and simple, and really good terrain. Now, you and you're going to go out through grass And sometimes, you'll just see the side has pressed a leaf down or a bit of mud on a you don't know what you're looking for. So And when I saw the relaxation, I let's look at the things you're doing &quot;She thought you should get a PhD.&quot; And I said, less. Okay, don't go there. So take over Londolozi don't know. It's not clear.&quot; Okay, we don't go that point. You know suffering and you know joy. not there. And there are a million ways to suffer. and there's actually only one path that takes your individual destiny. I believe in that stuff. track of a lot of both parts. I knew I would. So who can't see us, I cheat. I use a pen. I know memories, therefore blue pen. So individual even have the question mark, because I probably your own phrenology a bit. And I believe it was tell any lies for an entire year. Tim Ferriss: Now, my understanding is that led to job, your marriage, so it was an eventful year. industry. Yeah. It was quite a brisk year. Martha Beck: Yeah. the flamethrower approach to personal development. from it that other people can use? Tim Ferriss: Yeah. I had noble intentions. I was unhappy. I was very years, so in chronic pain for 12 years. And I was Down syndrome, and I thought nobody at Harvard's me. So to finish my dissertation, I went back to with me not having an abortion, which they were. and I tried to fit in just, out of respect, Tim Ferriss: Can you say a quick sidebar I think this is useful context. Tim Ferriss: Not just any run-of-the-mill. an apologist, which is a word for somebody who makes a lot of truth claims about things like of Israelites that came over in a ship in 600 BC, fact truth claims, they don't stand up well under asked to be an apologist for the church. He was to BYU, Brigham Young University. And he started became very well known in the church. And he's in the church's history. So I was considered So I went back to Utah and tried to be a said there was a lot of unrest because people wasn't a thing yet, but there were just too finding out too much stuff that was disproving upset and came out and said the three greatest feminists, intellectuals, and gay people. I didn't identify as gay at the time. I was myself. That involves a lot of suffering that you had sexual abuse issues from my father when I the surface and coming out in flashbacks, and it I heard the statement, &quot;The truth will set you peace. So I thought, I don't know exactly what to lie for a year and we'll see what happens. We'll mostly what I was lying about, I didn't tell lies life even, I was telling lies about how I felt. would say, &quot;How are you?&quot; And I'd say, &quot;Not well,&quot; days. Don't tell a single lie, not to anyone for have, professional or personal where there's any and then it starts to explode. And that's what until I realized I'm not Mormon. I don't believe worse than murder. I left. I said, &quot;Please take So everyone thought I was going to outer my family stopped speaking to me and yeah, then sort of convenient, so it was very amicable. But being caught up in academic politics. So I left my everything that was left was the path of joy. question, but what gave you the courage to it not courage at all? It was it just, &quot;This this suffering,&quot; and so you were just kind Martha Beck: The suffering was bad, but it wasn't losing my family. I mean, seven siblings, all and everyone, every friend I'd made growing up. made that pledge the day after I came out of an willing to entertain woo-woo things. But -- right? Yeah, every Wednesday. Tim Ferriss: Woo-woo Wednesday. So I'm lying. I'm rushed in for surgery. Actually a one-way mirror and the students started to observing and they started to talk about a number really hot and feverish and I ran into the hall all the students were around me. I got rushed to a very intimate place. They immediately put I sort of woke up and looked at the surgical closed. And then I thought, this is odd that I can body was on the table and I looked around and &quot;There's no tumor, it's just blood. And then I lay back and I thought, I don't surgical lights, another light appeared when I first saw it. And you know they of the available light spectrum. And I think this the most beautiful thing I had ever seen. It was it grew and it seemed to sort of penetrate it touched me, this incredible warmth, I mean a lot of psychological suffering to no suffering, emotional, every kind of warmth you can imagine, And I was laughing with it, and I heard &quot;She's crying.&quot; And I started crying from and they thought that I could feel the pain. more medication and I talked to him the event. And he said that a voice had told him, because she's happy. And he said, &quot;Did I do the So that was odd. Anyway, basically the light was about. You're just a physical thing and then you to forget. And then I totally forgot. We were said, &quot;Look, you're going to go through something here. I've always been here. I always will be.&quot; this guy who was there from the prison on some the floor in this room where I woke up and I Tim Ferriss: He's like, &quot;I'm Martha Beck: He went to get the nurses and I was surgery is traumatic.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;No, do they &quot;Eh, not really.&quot; So yeah, the next day the makes me feel separated from that light. Not that's still to this day, one of the weird things it's always right there with you in every ability to do everything else. quite a few follow up questions, so thank you do you make of that experience? The other, but did you talk to the surgeon and other Martha Beck: Yeah, the surgeon came in and really tender. And I think the reason was internally from a lot of scar tissue that very young. And they knew that some kind of &quot;Yeah, we don't really understand why you suddenly pressure and we just had to drain the wound and you know anything about the anesthesia?&quot; I went I started just quizzing him. &quot;So what did you give What are the side effects? Can I have some more?&quot; happened in there because this thing happened to telling him, &quot;Don't give her more anesthesia.&quot; And said, &quot;You know how many times this has happened &quot;No.&quot; And he said, &quot;Once.&quot; And then he kissed letter later about it. So he said it was experience as well. So take that. you make of that experience? it -- I started meditating and thinking about and it's been many years since then. And what I kind of like the path of not there, don't Buddhist concept of don't know mind, that in the in the expert's mind, there are few and that none have no idea what consciousness is. I've studied has a clue what consciousness is. One neurologist to have an idea about what consciousness is. is the primary reality of the universe. And I mechanics that the observation of consciousness physical. I believe that everything is full of of consciousness. But I also believe that this and that you are and that a tree is, and that a My son, actually, 19 years after they told me he the funeral of his friend's mother, his best And he said, &quot;Mom, I didn't cry at the funeral.&quot; when things are sad and this is sad.&quot; And this is so bad once the light comes and opens your heart.&quot; heart?&quot; And he said, &quot;Mm-hmm.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, when in February. And I was like, &quot;So what happened?&quot; a struggle. He was 13 years old, this was room and touched him. And he said it told him, that light too.&quot; And he looked at me like, wow, that it's always with us even though we can't see &quot;You can?&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; I said, &quot;Right &quot;Well, where is it? Is it like up there? Is it shook his head at me and he said, &quot;Mom, it's Tim Ferriss: All right. So yeah, I feel quite a few conversations. Tim Ferriss: On and off record. So to be slight sidestep to integrity cleanse. If somebody you did, but with the lessons learned, maybe how would you suggest they do that? Because have never attempted something like this. And just want to read something very funny, there's an &quot;I Think You're Fat&quot; by a friend of mine, A.J. radical candor. And his wife was like, &quot;How do fat.&quot; You can imagine it didn't go super well. Tim Ferriss: He learned a lot. But ultimately, it suggest to people and what is an integrity cleanse version? However you'd like to answer that? first. Take a smaller time period. I said a year. say everything you think, but you do have to be believe. So have a little journal or something so most lies are told to smooth social interactions. Martha Beck: Nobody says &quot;You look fat.&quot; So but what was I actually thinking? So somebody visit.&quot; And I said, &quot;Sure, sometime.&quot; But would rather die a thousand times than go to truth down in your little notebook for yourself. the path of not there, it's just mushy. The Divine Comedy because Dante starts that I've found myself just wandering through this I got there or where to go because I'd lost the true path. So most of us are doing that, and writing down the things that are true after do that for three days. That's the white belt. you speak the whole truth to another person, or something. You want to go black belt, all But you don't have to say much. Consider if what Tim Ferriss: For a month? you say it if it's true, kind, and useful and not, with your actions or with your facial expression want. That's a lie. I get really, I like to be miles a week. Now I will be like, &quot;I will never Tim Ferriss: It is rigorous, I would imagine. Tim Ferriss: All right, so quick, tactical somewhere between the blue and black. So going to make an attempt at fewer lies, more but actually changing some behavior. You mentioned being truthful is going to say &quot;No&quot; in some Martha Beck: A lot more. are some of your go-to phrases or language that think you're fat&quot; -- maybe it is -- in terms otherwise consume your time in your life? to say no and they don't know how to say I can't because of this, this and this. Which of a way out of those things. I love this quote where his wife says, &quot;Don't go to the Senate. get stabbed.&quot; So the guy comes to get him and come. That I cannot is false, that I dare Caesar will not come.&quot; Boom. That is my model. show that to get out of depression, one study a group that had meds, and a group that did and &quot;I have to&quot; from their responses. Instead, to,&quot; &quot;I will,&quot; &quot;I won't.&quot; And they came out other groups. Every verbal thing we say that is and leads us to anxiety and depression. have to deal with the people who don't like you friends that perhaps needed losing. But really know about something. Okay? Feel what at least to yourself in your notebook. And so self-serving, but in fact it's quite stoical. They were weirdly similar. They'll do what is true So have a notebook where you write down what And then after a while, once you know what you're way you actually conduct your life. And as commitments, forgive yourself. Because one of the yourself or to condemn yourself. It's never true. Martha Beck: We are such little monkeys. I just monkey encounter and they had this fear expression thought, we are this far from them, all we've got terrified of everything all the time. And most all kinds of socialization weirdness, and our If you're not in integrity and you didn't manage kindness and gentleness are the truth. And I after I wrote The Way of Integrity , because thing and it was making people anxious. And and it is called compassion -- and it's truer. nitty-gritty with maybe a mundane question, but and I'll give an example. So we were first potential for maybe doing something in person and but the logistics weren't going to work along the lines of it. I would love to do something like that. And I was like, &quot;Life Tetris! going to steal.&quot; And so I am wondering -- it to you freely. thank you. I will gratefully receive this hypothetical example, really close friend of yours you to a costume party on a Thursday night. And myself face first through a plate glass window for any number of reasons. Right? Perfectly nice you know it would be meaningful to her. It would have to deal with some flak, who knows, like back really don't want to go. What do you say? &quot;What else could we do together?&quot; This actually, a child. If you just say no, it leaves them with feelings. And none of us ever really grows what else could we do together? Because you want you want to do something with them. It's just not it's time to say no to the costume party rid of them, but cut them loose. to do things with me that I wanted to do, and I didn't have all the awful things where Tim Ferriss: Could you give an example comes to you and they're like, &quot;Let's do in your and body, &quot;I don't really want to do it.&quot; Martha Beck: No, it doesn't have to be made Have you interviewed Liz Gilbert? few years. We're going to talk again. we've been trying to figure out how to do very much. And we had the same speaking agent and had to just go to her and say, &quot;I don't think it we go and we're creating events together.&quot; we both really love this agent, but Liz and she upset her and maybe it did, but the fact is it was &quot;Okay, whatever makes it more fun and gives We want our friendship to be as much fun as and it was a little awkward, but it worked. horse any further, but any other language that saying no, is there any starter language Martha Beck: When you said any other Tim Ferriss: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Martha Beck: Right. I don't speak [foreign oh, Tim. When I was freaking out about my family mother called me and said, &quot;We haven't seen And I had just taken this pledge and I said to Tim Ferriss: Oh, wow. it was the truest thing I could say Martha Beck: But I didn't want to hurt her. was still right there and I hadn't gotten another bit of language: &quot;Know what you really me it might be something like, &quot;Oh, you is just too early for me. I'd be I'm not being a victim, I'm just telling So you sort of claim your right to joy and you joy and you expect yourself to have joy. And no are hurtful in order to make the other person And a relationship built on that, it isn't a so much manipulation going on where people like and both of them are miserable. Yeah. it was McSweeney's. No, well, there was a tweet resembled this, but it said, &quot;Being an adult,&quot; &quot;Being an adult is saying 'So sorry for getting both of you die.&quot; Something like that. Tim Ferriss: &quot;Sorry for the Delayed Response.&quot; is holding the phone and going, 'What Tim Ferriss: Yeah, The New Yorker. That's where you're like, you know what? This is life. How do you break up with those people? I remember I had one friend, she wanted to come remember saying, &quot;Let me think about it.&quot; And then very upset and she said, &quot;You paused and you had said, &quot;Yeah, that's, sometimes I have to think had something else going on or did you really wall and it was physically painful to speak the So I said, &quot;Yeah, I wasn't in a place where our did not feel like it would be good for either and they'll break up with you, I promise. You just Tim Ferriss: All right, so I am going to ask you about that. Before we get to that. So you had some a little bit of context. So you've lived in Asia, but also philosophies. So this is just a sidebar which is, I was in Greece many, many, many years alien, unintelligible in English, you say, &quot;Well, if you're a Greek person in Greek, you see say &quot;It's all Greek to me,&quot; because that's say? And they're like, &quot;Oh, yeah, good question. all Chinese to me.&quot; So if you're Greek, &quot;It's Martha Beck: That's fabulous. with Asia, Asian languages, philosophies Let's just say in a coaching capacity? kids or any of the other stuff happened. I at a research center in Singapore. And then I And I wasn't particularly interested at the of the Asian cultures. I just saw people offering &quot;Oh, that's weird.&quot; Then I went back in Singapore and I went back to Harvard. And &quot;Why do you people assume so much? You just assume that I see no evidence for.&quot; And as I went on they have a reverse idea of perfection. So in imperfect. You're an imperfect original sinning more godlike until you can be godlike. You have In Asia, the idea is you're formed completely So a baby comes in completely innocent the baby smiles and they don't like it when betraying themselves by smiling when they want and everyone does it. We're a social species. suffering, you drop your illusions. So like the if it causes suffering, it has to go. In the &quot;In the pursuit of knowledge, every day something or the tao, every day something is dropped. So you and when nothing is done, nothing remains undone.&quot; don't know why.&quot; And -- yeah, that was even before of on that path. And now everything appears to and truth is something that I can feel or just been dropping and dropping and dropping Tim Ferriss: So we've been jointly baking a nice icing on top, and then we're going to segue to Martha Beck: I will eat any cake you -- pie or a Key lime pie, or maybe a Martha Beck: You would probably Show and outbake everyone in Britain. through or people go through culinary school, savory path. So do you become a chef or are you And for people who were having a tough time on The 4-Hour Chef, someone who was involved said, &quot;Well, one question we sometimes ask these them in neat rows in the shelf? If so, maybe OCD-friendly and precision-oriented. Tim Ferriss: So yes, based off that at would find baking very satisfying. eat what you bake. there may be a day. So the first is a story this is enough of a prompt. So it's a story of an Martha Beck: Oh, yeah. Martha Beck: I do this over and over. I speak places. And I'll be talking about how to do better and right in the middle I'll stop and say, &quot;Wait, at me as if I'm crazy and I say, &quot;No, seriously, say, &quot;Yes, we're fine. Go on.&quot; I'm like, &quot;No, whole audience will get quite angry, &quot;Yes, we're &quot;Okay, so now answer this question. If you how many of you would be sitting in exactly the one hand goes up in a room full of hundreds of be in a different position?&quot; And they literally about five seconds, &quot;This isn't comfortable.&quot; comfortable because we're tough. We're a tough be together in this way. But I do have a problem eye in clear daylight and repeatedly lied to but you knew you were lying.&quot; And they're like, the truth.&quot; That's how cut off we are from our you know. The first thing you ask yourself comfortable?&quot; That'll give you everything else. icing. Then there's the cherry on top. I'd these words will be words people recognize, but I What do you want versus what you yearn for? And Martha Beck: No, it is. is the significance of that question? the comment about is it the exact language. That's about language because somehow we divide that what they want, they make me a list of things: a whatever. And then I say, &quot;When you wake up at what do you yearn for?&quot; And the list is And almost everyone lists the same things: peace, of it. Everybody wants them. And all the lists it the difference between your social self and the social self wants. And the stuff you want, doesn't make you happy. It's nice. Martha Beck: But if you get what you yearn Tim Ferriss: I can't resist the bait here. so-and-so wants the newest Tesla model, so-and-so the sense that it costs $88,000. I can finance much I need to work to earn a bonus to get this kind of like the drunk guy looking for his keys it's in the bar somewhere, because that's and this might not be the right way to phrase belonging, which at least at face value is much but it's not as easy to slice and dice and then Martha Beck: Yeah, it's not as cognitive. It's not measurable. So our particular science doesn't that of things. The first thing is something I call between seeing your life in purely physical terms all non-physical realities. And as we know not physical. So that's the first thing is to up of objects. I live in a world where I deal your body, it is a physical sensation, but it's energies that bring you the essence of what you and I've been doing it with people since the I'd love to do it just a little bit with you. love to. For sure. simple. So I have you write down whatever your three things you love to taste. guess should I write down -- I should write down -- me. You can write them if you want. thick frosting. yeah. sure. I would say barbecue brisket would slightly sweetened iced tea on a really hot day. can you remember the sensation Tim Ferriss: Yes. your attention on the actual experience of the Tim Ferriss: Three things I love to hear. things are everywhere. leaf blowers more than anything. Texas. I don't know what it is with the compulsive mini-rant based on this morning. very much alike in this way. doing? I think there's a racket where it's like Wednesday they blow the leaves back to the other Martha Beck: It blows. It blows. Exactly. All right, so three sounds. Tim Ferriss: I would say acoustic like Segovia, that type of guitar I find really thinking of all sorts of obscene things. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. A very responsive certainly would be high on the list. And then and she's so happy to see me. She's just doing right. I'd say those are three that come to mind. to try to hold all these sensations in them all at once. So you've got cheesecake, you've got the dog, you've got the female -- me to get all of these things felt at Martha Beck: I do. I'm trying to hold all of these things. left side of the brain, I'll give you a hint, right side of your brain more than you usually but cheesecake, the guitar, whatever it is. Martha Beck: Now we're going to go through the things you love to feel with your skin? Martha Beck: Or with your -- Tim Ferriss: Yeah. I didn't going here this morning, but I'm into it. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Got it, got it. All Martha Beck: Textures. very saturated Epsom salt bath where there's around. That would be one. I'll try to keep this definitely dog kisses for sure. That's super with a small amount of oil. Tim Ferriss: Fantastic. So those would be three. three things non-food that you love to smell. tree, I don't how to pronounce this word sometimes, but a ylang-ylang, the Y-L-A-N-G. whatever. However that's pronounced. That particular Second would be, I'm really on a dog kick, I think just that puppy smell. It's true with babies too. dog's feet is one of their favorite things. Martha Beck: I know, right? I've Tim Ferriss: I haven't gone for the feet, but I -- Tim. We need to go take that step. smelling guy with the pups. But then there's in general. So that's two. Is that two? Tim Ferriss: And then I would say non-food Martha Beck: Nice. Martha Beck: Okay. One sense to Tim Ferriss: Three things I love to see. would say babies laughing, kids laughing. Just got the last few days. And then just to showcase my so a bookshelf or stacks of things perfectly symmetry. Maybe if I want to give it a I'll say symmetry. Different types of symmetry. job, and as you've been thinking of these and they're activating the parts of your brain from the analytical, cognitive part that's because everything we do develops it more happy is vividly imagine a scene with as many So imagine sitting in a perfectly symmetrical, out. You've got your dog on one side, you've Tim Ferriss: A responsive female on the other. got -- somebody's playing the guitar. with a blindfold playing Spanish Martha Beck: And you start to drop into space part of your mind that we talk about as mind. Tim Ferriss: The sensory over spreadsheet. Sorry. what you're doing is you're accessing the part yearn for. Because everything we actually yearn these very simple, small things. When I have Zoom calls and put it in the chat, and hundreds of And I'll start by saying, &quot;How nervous, anxious, one to 10. Everybody's nervous and depressed. looking at everyone else's delights, everybody Tim Ferriss: I bet. how you get to the things you yearn for. You think to a sensory-based experiential way Tim Ferriss: And so jumping the tracks, does establishing this emotional landmark? Like, the snow-capped peaks, the dog, the this, the of homing direction from a sensory perspective.&quot; side of the rhinoceros' toe. It's very likely that you don't know what the real -- for me, that white it after that experience. But what you just did and seeing you feel the shape of it. Or I end because it's not a verbal experience. And the of the reason it can fulfill your yearning. And there. Steven Hayes, who founded ACT Therapy, he and no other animal seems to deliberately do that. that can create a reality with words in our minds worse than the fear of death. If you stop thinking call that thinking, intelligence. It's like a it's not great when you need to stay warm. nervous system, which is all part of -- it's not territory where you can actually experience joy. going to be a complete non sequitur, but just something about rhinos. So you mentioned rhinos as you alluded to, rhinos are a good in South Africa where you and I were in the Sabi which coincidentally means the protector of all large front toe. You can imagine it like the edge side toes. And it just goes back to Pangaea and Martha Beck: It's so weird. there is an order called the Perissodactyla, which elk, deer, et cetera. The order includes families. You have Equidae, which comes back Martha Beck: Oh, yeah. and tapirs, which you find in South America. Tim Ferriss: So those are all related, which is say, zebras or horses. But if you look at the wanted to mention that -- Tim Ferriss: -- briefly because it needed to related to what you mentioned earlier, if you could speak to Stephen Mitchell and them. It could be related to integrity, it have you modeled from them or learned from them? parents, they're friends more than parents, but I with their books mainly. I read Stephen's version the white light experience. That's when it was was like my nervous system caught fire when I and they didn't float my boat as much. that I felt like I was going to literally where I knew I could hike to a waterfall. to say safely explode. Got to hike to -- mountain path to this largish waterfall, ran under cold water beating down on me equaled the sort book was so overwhelming, and I know it's been took it around, gave it to everyone I knew. Then I named Byron Katie, and it said, &quot;With a forward if I hadn't seen that. And then I found out on the &quot;Wow, okay, now I'm interested.&quot; So I bought And she had a series of four questions, that makes you upset. Is it true? Can you think it? Who would you be without it? It I started applying it. And there on the plane, &quot;I'm mad at my knee because it won't let me everything that's causing you suffering. After I actually believe that the direct verbal toward enlightenment. I truly believe that. time? So I have some familiarity with for people who want to find this, they Martha Beck: Yeah. It's called The Work of Byron things. And she's very generous with it. more time? Because this seems like it -- been doing The Work for a long time, but this is my worst fear is -- so the opposite, take your That is your next step toward enlightenment. So and I said to the publisher, &quot;Don't tell &quot;You're afraid of the Mormons. How cute.&quot; Then from New York, &quot;Why didn't you tell us these You mess with a religion, you get some weird this plane again, and I'm thinking, &quot;Something wrote that book. Something terrible is going And this thought just dogged me. So I did apart for you. And then you get the reverse. I'm going to happen to something terrible because is going to happen to me, it became I am going to psyche just went click, click, click, click, and killed for sure. I know I was doing what was right again. That was just true for me. So that gives way Byron Katie's work affects you when you do it. who were into it, said to Stephen Mitchell, to write a book about this woman.&quot; And he really have to.&quot; And he's like, &quot;I hate gurus. California. Ugh, ugh.&quot; Stephen is very picky, very where she lives.&quot; But she wasn't living in Barstow in L.A. But he said, &quot;She will meet me in Barstow into each other's eyes for an hour. And then I not.&quot; So the way I tell the story, which is not but they went to Barstow and Katie was And they sat in a hotel. I believe they sat on other's eyes without speaking for an hour. And But he said to Katie, &quot;I've got to go back to New back to New York?&quot; He said, &quot;Because I live &quot;Well, I have to go deal with my affairs.&quot; And met who's of my species.&quot; And talk about two kids in love with each other, in love with the everything. And their work has just mothered and themselves as people now, so I love them dearly. Work for sure. And I have a technical question &quot;I'm going to happen to something terrible a turnaround and could you have ended up on wonderful is going to happen to me because of been a number of varieties. Did that happen to Martha Beck: Yeah, that was the one that really And very often you can come up with a bunch of They don't feel right at all. Some of them are, terrible is going to happen to me because I wrote actually terrible things did happen to me. Death things are going to happen to me for sure.&quot; And happened, but it did. So that one didn't work. because I wrote that book. I did think that I just couldn't know what was going to it's the one that's strange and not grammatically because I think of the strange verbiage and it that space of don't know mind, and it's a little put them through Byron Katie's questions, and really change your life, just sitting in a chair. doing this exercise live with Katie reframe 20 Y, and Z. And they do a 180, and seemingly it just different with at least some durability, and Martha Beck: A lot of it. impressed, and it's not that this happens but you do see some really remarkable changes. The Work itself is incredibly powerful. But the Katie in person, this one guy, he was in a house I think it was in World War II, and his whole was winter. And so, he gets up and he is he's carried this and she says, &quot;Can you find that roof beam on his head who was just fine?&quot; &quot;Oh, yeah,&quot; and things like this happened around has jumped the tracks. And to understand why you have to jump the tracks. You have to start is connecting all of us, and you can feel people's Stephen wants to slap me in the face. He doesn't, &quot;I don't believe any of that stuff.&quot; an hour very intensely. &quot;I don't believe any of that stuff. It's Stephen,&quot; and I show him something Katie's I can't explain that,&quot; but it's really analytical -- he doesn't believe anything, and she is a field of transformation. She just is. It's just a different thing, and I'm not She's a very, and this in the most Martha Beck: I have met a lot of people who claim and she's the only one -- I've spent quite a reason to disbelieve what she says about Tim Ferriss: It's pretty wild to see her in her, but I spent a few days in a workshop with she go home and just yell on the phone? What's deviation. I did not see any deviation whatsoever. her when she's exhausted, when she's sick, when suffering, ever, as far as I've seen. great for a second. Goethe, the German writer, I'm wondering what you find most striking about up that I think may resonate with you that I &quot;But when you trust yourself, you'll &quot;Never hurry, never cease.&quot; That's one I've heard no pause,&quot; all these things, which I quite like. Martha Beck: From Goethe himself? doesn't need to be specifically, too. Martha Beck: I love the stuff about which I rarely do. All I can think about the bargain with The Devil. I think we all make we're forced to confront the question, &quot;Will of by humans, or will we follow the soul? Will people want us to be?&quot; So the Faustian bargain is now. Is Goethe a particular favorite of yours? and lived in Berlin for a period of time, wondering what the hell we're talking about, but G-O-E-T-H-E. There's the Goethe-Institut, and him the Shakespeare plus of Germany, Martha Beck: I know why you're into him. Martha Beck: He's just like you. Martha Beck: Yeah, there Tim Ferriss: Bald, I guess. I'm just kidding. way you're so incredibly generous with all your can learn 12 sentences and then know a language, an Argentine champion. Not everybody can.&quot; You because you don't just pick up hobbies, you pick It's kind of insane the kind of equipment you in some ways and quite lonely, because as much as rarely are. And I think Goethe's life might've Tim Ferriss: Oh, wow. Tim Ferriss: No, I appreciate that. That is high definitely feeling lonely, that's something hardware. I'd say that it manifests in maybe assessments recently, because that's the for digit recall, just doing five and six digit have the time to use a crutch of, say, a mnemonic. sure, bottom 10 percent. But then there are other say the word red, but it's displayed in green and on some parameter, and it's very fast. Stroop why. I don't know what that translates are super abilities and super weaknesses. Tim Ferriss: Well, they're very, in my experience, So, I would say I can -- you can see how this I was doing a remodel at one point, for instance, I walked in and there was a mirror 10 feet away, to the left,&quot; talking about symmetry. I was like, And they're like, &quot;What?&quot; I was like, &quot;Yeah, it's and lo and behold, within a fraction of Martha Beck: Wow. drive me fucking bananas too, though. hard to live in the world -- a -- what'd I say? It's so gratifying to me that -- Tim Ferriss: Its own excuse for being, so when it bugs the shit out of me, and I'm not proud of time I would say it is distracting. At worst, do certain things. I can draw the floor plan It doesn't matter if it's once, twice, I've only I can do. And then there are a lot of things that in terms of -- let's just say on one because I will ruminate. On the other as lifelong onset insomnia. treatment for this right now. Martha Beck: I just found someone. so it goes both ways, and I will say there are what I've done. There are thankfully more examples where I arrived after that point in time. Mostly has a lot of fat on it, and logical sequences persist for a really long time. So the way that mentioned languages, the way we teach languages &quot;You want to learn how to ski and you're excited have you take a six-month avalanche course and and historical weather patterns for the first six Everyone's going to draw it out. Maybe there get called good at languages. That's a failure Martha Beck: 100 percent. I'm able to suffer through that and then break then I can teach people to go further than I did ability to mimic, I just do. And for whatever because I like to know what I'm dealing with, any greater sensitivity than the average interprets these sounds and signals, and I Martha Beck: That's amazing. but that does give me an advantage. given a word for your neurodivergence? the sense that I was not of a generation where, existent for things that didn't have labels, that didn't have labels until later, because I for is a place for medication, but I would've been rambunctious, bouncing all over the place, refused stupid, and then I was going to be held back and Martha Beck: Oh, my God. a word. Is there a good word that comes to mind? self-identified as autistic. So I went in and that's what's been wrong with me this whole and I remember thinking even as a child, if Everest and someone else's destiny is to the equipment that I need would actually make them that would not be good in diving, and I couldn't thought, &quot;All right, there are things I wish I don't know, I just can do them and it And I just thought, &quot;Well, this must be in some my life.&quot; I remember thinking that when I was you've done so many things that, what do you champion. Yay, you can do that. But your brain is unless it's something that makes you happier, but brain because it's clearly -- I actually think the neurodivergent in ways that make them unable created, the weird cultures. And that's an cultures, but the overall culture that we have of the planet and teaching people languages by there are people who just will not because their just got the most unusual brain I've ever seen. lot. I don't know if I want to paint this Martha Beck: Always. powers come with weaknesses. It's the two varieties, and so I think that for instance, a exist without also a propensity towards depression Martha Beck: I'm the same way. would trade it all for the ability to get to sleep full instead of half empty. There are times that if someone's like, &quot;Here's your list of abilities you have to strike out something from the other arrived at a good place. I feel that number interesting, but I'd love to hear from you, and like you to take this wherever you would like to it as a prompt. So the opposite of anxiety isn't heard it before, but there's part of me that's to me. Could you elaborate on that, please? I was noticing this huge spike in all my clients mostly in the pandemic, but anxiety just went eased a little bit. And at the same time, the woman who had the left hemisphere stroke when TED Talk to go viral, and she lost all language was offline. It took her eight years to rebuild the right hemisphere that she'd never experienced feeling of being completely a field of energy, no different view of the world. If she hadn't been vegetating somewhere, but fortunately she was So, now she goes around telling people we're We need to be able to access the right, and so love talking to her, and I was reading a lot and I noticed that there were tons of studies slightly stressed, their creativity goes to shit. &quot;We'll pay you $5 if you get the answer.&quot; Instead anxiety, can't do it. All these studies showing can't do the same things. Why? It always boils and marshmallow test. Have you heard of it? Martha Beck: Yeah, you're trying to build the marshmallow, some string, and some tape. And they groups of MBA students, groups of lawyers, all they gave it to a group of five-year-olds do better by far at so many creative tests. older? It boils down to socialization and brain structures and what Jill told me was you but they don't work the same. The left hemisphere then immediately the left hemisphere starts to try you afraid, and telling verbal stories about it. feed back into the amygdala and as environmental jump at me from the dark, it's as if something when I say I may have a fatal illness, go into a panic over that because of language. to acknowledge that the right hemisphere's a right hemisphere stroke and they're only in the they'll draw the side of the clock from and there's nothing wrong with their eyes. They observing. When Jill only had a right brain, zero On the right side of the amygdala is you said something about curiosity really &quot;That's the trick.&quot; If something scares you, if to curiosity, my mind is open, I have no is about, instead of anxiety, you get creativity, So, when I asked you to talk about these things, to go into the right hemisphere of the brain and produces anxiety. That's just the machinery. So, creativity kills anxiety. So I started designing even though I haven't seen any direct studies on it's kind of an unavoidable conclusion. the results are ridiculously powerful. exercises do you do for yourself? to write your name, Tim -- that's cheating because Tim Ferriss: I'm right-handed. then put your pencil just to the left of your so mirror your signature, then you'd put it upside down and then upside down and backwards. Tim Ferriss: That was a wild example extensive backwards writing. Nuts. constantly as a kid. Martha Beck: It was amazing to me that other this IQ test once when I was five, because and he was giving it to me orally and I thought, fine here.&quot; I aced that one. Martha Beck: Anyway, but just because I can read anxious at the same time. Martha Beck: You can't do it. Then, I decided to give myself an entire month in lockdown, so this is a good time for an experiment in do things that are purely right brain function. I thought I'll just go from there. I drew and I didn't want to eat, I didn't want to talk to at the end of the month, stopping was horrible. and now since I finished, I had to get back into as soon as I sent the manuscript away, I get up until 11:00, and I'm just completely blissed out. I wanted to be an illustrator for a long time in college by being an illustrator. Martha Beck: I did that, too. and getting back into that, even just going to -- good, it's about using different circuitry, There are many different ways you could frame you have nude subjects posing and just in case You're going to get some obese, naked dudes, too. Tim Ferriss: It's dealer's choice, so just It's not a singles bar. And the fact just for gesture drawing is so-called, because you're a pose. The pose automatically changes to the and the model will change his or her position minutes and then to say five minutes. But the is when things are changing that quickly, as an introduction, because you just cannot what you're doing. Tim Ferriss: Where if I'm like, &quot;Draw this do it,&quot; you can scrutinize and tie yourself up it's a pose that changes every 60 seconds, I find it so deeply therapeutic. It's unreal. of a fan and try to draw it. that sounds like torture potentially. massive depression and anxiety and you know from for the joy of it. The moment you're doing it for into it this last January is that I'd always I was doing it for money. I was doing it and this was just to activate the right side of my a drawing or a painting, and when it was done, I they are anymore. I just started littering this when I'm anxious, this is what I can't stay anxious if you're making something.&quot; the first is for people who want a great commencement speech by Neil Gaiman is -- Tim Ferriss: -- unbelievably good, and watch the mellifluous, dulcet tones add so much to it. thing I would say is for those people who naked person in a class, and this, that, and we'll put some in the show notes where you you can set the duration. So you can mimic this the class adds so much more to it. You're doing actually moving your body and getting away from in front of your face. There's so much more to it. the right hemisphere moves with people in motion, fixed, rigid, in space, got to get this right, and again, an oversimplification, but there's functions to the point where this -- I love &quot;The whole culture functions like someone lost half our brain, and it's the part that that finds joy. We have left out the best part. knowing different modes of living. So these types certainly joy inducing, but just a critical the consequences psychologically or in essential amino acid or something like that. as it relates to -- it doesn't need to be specific had mentioned this in his long list of potential this ties in any way or if you could just speak Family Systems. How have you used that? What do lot of time on it. I'm just wondering if there's an intersection if thoughts are beliefs we take thoughts we take to be true. If The Work, Byron on people by helping them to re-author beliefs, what that role is in the work that you do. because it works so well and I got really training course, but there's a waiting list. I meeting Dick Schwartz, who created IFS, and having puts it, he was a family therapist and there people and say the dad was really aggressive and he'd ask the dad to step out of the room and then he was working with just one patient and he he had this odd thing of, &quot;Could I ask whoever out of the body for a minute?&quot; Not literally. &quot;Sure,&quot; and then the critical part stepped out behind this critical voice, or whoever disagrees the patient would start to express themselves. personalities, or anything like that. It's just us that loves to go out dancing, and a part that that feels little, there's a part that feels Katie Work, for example, if you do it but only part that is just not down with it and that part that the parts have their own unique and whole together and they start to integrate with each miserable and it works really, really well. Martha Beck: Yeah, I'm not trained, but he's also out there, one is called Self-Therapy by Jay and everything to tell you how to use it. The to anxiety -- there's a part of you that gets different parts, one anxious, one depressed, I or your depression or your insomnia, how do you Tim Ferriss: What are the thoughts I think? Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Remarkably, I've seemingly in 30 years but I would say if we're talking about type of thought pattern and I did do a live -- I a live demo. He asked me if I would be willing to to answer your question, the most common thoughts fear-based. For instance, if I I'm catastrophizing. I can feel myself slipping. everything to avoid it, because if I end and all this catastrophe, scenarios might ensue. persistent depressive or anxious state, especially I've brute forced through so many thousands confidence in my ability to just by sheer will and the depressive stuff is more handicapping. But Martha Beck: Yeah. There's fear, there's catastrophizing. Now, what I've found they're like, &quot;I hate it. I want to get rid of theory that the part that holds the insomnia or is a part that wants to be included, everything I don't want you,&quot; the part of you that does it's now being told it can't belong. You don't all it knows how to do is keep you awake and make I had this huge breakthrough when I was meditating won't seem to leave, I just use a little, let go, &quot;Okay, how would Byron Katie do this?&quot; I said, &quot;Stay, don't go anywhere. Please come and sit are. I accept you exactly the way you are. I want welfare. I want to know all about you. I want fire with me.&quot; It's what I do with every client, know each other, &quot;Sit by the fire with me and I have room enough in my heart for all of them.&quot; but you can't get to creativity if you don't kindness toward the self, toward the parts of stand. That was a really dramatic shift for the negatives when I started saying, &quot;Stay.&quot; also makes me think, &quot;Man, oh, man, it's Acceptance by Tara Brach, probably.&quot; Tim Ferriss: Probably. It's probably time for Out of left field, do you have a favorite birds, or otherwise you're like, &quot;You know find these animals interesting. Tim Ferriss: Cheetahs? All right. but cheetahs are delicate and scared and have those long legs and stuff, and if a lion or I had a chance to meet an orphan cheetah, an like dogs have this energy that is just dog which is like, &quot;I'm about this far away from wild energy like serial killers because they are. throttling an Impala, and it held on until the it said, &quot;Meow.&quot; I met this adult cheetah -- dog energy if you put a ton of sugar Tim Ferriss: What do you mean it? Just throwing donuts out of the car? rot your teeth way, but just how dogs love you, other twice that much. It started licking my every lick because they have these really raspy don't care. It could have eaten my arm -- go, that's up there with the greats. &quot;What a cheetah licked my skin off.&quot; Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Okay, cheetahs. Yeah, but I was really overjoyed, I think it was my last with the whole kit and caboodle where they could At least, not initially. I really wanted to see a with this maybe, but I was so jet-lagged at one they see all these cheetahs and they're &quot;Oh, you've got to be kidding me.&quot; of these rangers and trackers is so otherworldly, an impala and was resting in the shade and had They're like, &quot;Yeah, don't worry about it.&quot; We're lock eyes. For those people who haven't done this, they have very different eyes from lions or I saw, this deep amber-orange eyes and a very It's so distinct. They're, as you pointed out, they could rip your face off, but -- you six ways from Sunday. They're going to run away from everything. Every so they're built for speed. They've made a Quick side note for people who may not realize it's like a squirrel tail. It's built for it's very bushy. A cheetah tail is actually Martha Beck: It is, yeah. turned 90 degrees on its side because they they're traveling at high speed. Tim Ferriss: It's so wild. But I I'm actually very, very envious of this. said about every superpower has its cost though Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Yeah, I love cheetahs. I that close that one time but what a wonderful and I'm afraid of everything: horses. I want making that up? North Star Ranch? Tim Ferriss: Do you still own the ranch? Tim Ferriss: But you did? Tim Ferriss: Okay, but you did. Martha Beck: Yeah, for six years. Martha Beck: It actually was in a national park. there was no road going past it. There was bears and a lot of mountain lions. Equine therapy is that something you've -- now, context. The reason I'm asking about it, I that specializes in equine therapy for people conditions, including autism. I wanted to have the horses before, but being in a pen, interacting could you describe what this is? please stop me but I'm just curious, the broad with animals at large? But since horses are big cats, it's a little more approachable for of a non-question but would you like to take Martha Beck: I love it. Yeah. I got that with some equine therapists and I made an what they were doing. We ran seminars and The reason it's so amazing is that I talk exuding an energy. Horses are responding to is undeniable. We'd have a team of people and all too frightened to tell the boss that he was and gallop and gallop and rear. The guy would for the posture and you could correct for -- it with your physical body and you basically have are, and start moving more like a prey animal, sort of wishy-washy sounding things. But when eyes aren't soft, the horse is afraid, and then, goes, &quot;Ugh,&quot; and physically drops its tension. calm, really connected state of being so calm, but the herd. I had a few experiences with that This one time, some horse whisperers took join up with this one little Palomino mare.&quot; and this one was the most skittish, the hardest and do everything just right but eventually, I call a join up where you walk past the horse walk away and it follows you and you are now its but I finally got this little Palamino to join with me. You walk for a while together just to but I heard something weird behind me. After we'd down and not over my shoulder, sort of under my up and staring and she was the herd matriarch. and they were all walking with me. Holy shit. Martha Beck: That's why I bought a ranch in happens is you start to realize that these horses are seeing in you all the time. We'd put people to tell the truth. The boss would say, &quot;Am I horses are afraid of you and we are too.&quot; It's a There was this one woman who kept trying to do just kept bopping up against her and she hated seminar. I was panicking inside. Finally, after been working on all these stupid little things, haven't told anybody,&quot; and she started to cry. It &quot;Just go in with the horse and do whatever, but be there and started to cry and the horse came up and then wrapped his head back around so that his nose a genuine hug, this is not me anthropomorphizing. as a companion, if you just tell the truth, Tim Ferriss: So why did you sell the ranch? I'm following this energy through the world and goes into the forests of California and has a sequel that happens in the eastern forests, that still survive, and it was going to be I moved to a little patch of the ancient eastern plague that affected New York City and I'm writing saying, &quot;I have a ranch. Now, I'm a rancher.&quot; No, tomorrow if I felt like I should and I would. to the day or the week or the conversation No more ranch.&quot; What did that look like? than that. It was like a death. It was like an Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Unfortunately, yes. such a clean pain. Death in nature is not the gratitude for physical experience and then, this you loved and it teaches you how to die. When without any fear. I felt the ranch dying for me Tim Ferriss: How did that feel? I'm sorry might sound hard to grasp for -- Tim Ferriss: What does that feel like? I was supposed to be and now -- well, Liz said it, that is beautiful to change into something else the beauty of it would decay because the real month of my right hemisphere stuff, &quot;It's not the painting, it's about painting. It's about response to whatever is present. That state of on my 50th birthday, spent every penny I had You know something great? We had a wonderful on people there, and she'd have her massage paycheck to paycheck or hand to mouth when we of money and bought the ranch. Martha Beck: Boyd loves her, we all love her. Martha Beck: This place, there were wild turkeys here, first thing that happened when I saw walked out of the forest and I've never seen them know how Londolozi is? Nature is like that tell the truth and let people hate you because tells you to go places and have adventures. monkeys for six days, so I went and I it's stupid, we got mobbed by monkeys. They were had to ask him to leave with my mind. I don't see that in your bio. into it. It was just last week. is on your LinkedIn. That's right. life is full of wildness -- monkey whispering. I like it. there's something to it. Those beautiful creatures Martha Beck: Scary animals. They are scary. are the most hilarious. especially terrifying. Yeah. Oh, boy. listening to recordings from Londolozi two days because I had some terrifying dreams, but I don't listen to baboon. Don't listen to Martha Beck: Not good. But yeah, Costa Rica. Were Martha Beck: No, they were capuchins. Martha Beck: Yeah, and scary. Just a little. Well, Martha, we've covered a lot that you would like to chat about before we Martha Beck: This might sound so yarfy, but I'm lived and for your differences and how you've so generously and completely, and you've given me I love your presence, your energy, your being. nature and I meet a really interesting creature. been a fan from afar for a long time, so it's Martha Beck: It is. been patiently waiting, I guess, for me to make and this story is certainly, that he tells and about the Boyd when he can't defend himself. out and make some more stories. Because I you feel you're supposed to go to maximize Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Yeah, I feel like I'm in and the next. There's probably quite a bit excited. I have no idea what that -- cultures and Europe, for example, the threshold is the place of magic because it's you're not anyone anywhere. A liminal phase is that's why it's a place you can do magic. Maybe Tim Ferriss: Hang out here. Hang out Martha Beck: -- learn some magic. territories. Yeah, the boundary walking. I enjoy Maybe I'll hang out here for a bit. We'll see. Tim Ferriss: Tricksy, tricksy shamans. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Oh, yeah. That's for cultures murder so many shamans?&quot; You're like, tricksy.&quot; There is a really fun book. but Trickster Makes This World by Lewis Hyde. Tim Ferriss: It's fascinating. Really fun mythology. And of course -- Tim Ferriss: It's tricky. Of course, how these so than others. But I've been spending more and Martha Beck: If you stay in the liminal phase being tricksy, if you learn the magic and tell for good and not evil. I think maybe that's to do that. I don't know. Byron Katie does it. necessarily bad, I just mean tricksy -- Tim Ferriss: Probably doesn't help very much, Martha Beck: Anansi. usually, they are incredible creators. They've humans. They've done a lot of good, and they're Martha Beck: Constantly. Tim Ferriss: I'm going to try to avoid some of the that might be right on the doorstep that could Martha Beck: I want to hear about that. be a show, don't tell kind of situation. That'd But it's been such a pleasure to spend time with Your recent book is The Way of Integrity: Times bestseller, Oprah's Book Club selection. I on integrity incredibly powerful. Tim Ferriss: Your upcoming book is Beyond Anxiety: Purpose, that is forthcoming. You have that to Martha Beck, I would imagine, at MarthaBeck.com. Tim Ferriss: The Martha Beck is your account these things in the show notes for everybody at one place, including everything we talked about. some conversational cake with you today. make. Let's make more some day. Martha Beck: Thank you. Thank you for this to be on the podcast in that order. Absolutely. My pleasure, entirely. I mentioned where you can find the show notes. is necessary to others and to yourself. Don't