Hubble has now been in space for over 33 years, It was never designed to look at objects in our actually doing so over the course of its mission, moments we would have otherwise missed. Not plus there is a lot to see besides just planets through our solar system, from here to the very probably never even heard of as we explore what I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum, we'll look at some Hubble snapshots you the context and an explanation Let's begin our grand tour of our with our immediate neighbour; the Moon. diameter in our sky, which means Hubble there are other missions out there which like NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter spent looking elsewhere. However, this image in front of the Sun. So why image the moon? to search for slight variations caused by sunlight variations allow scientists to determine the we already know the composition of Venus' to see if the light scattering experiment produces distant stars when an exoplanet is transiting determine the composition of that exoplanet's look at directly, so light reflected off the moon Hubble might struggle to fit the Moon in one go, but this is less of a problem Mars is often imaged by Hubble, giving us always be seen by orbiting spacecraft. In these variations and other weather phenomena, important and to build up a catalogue of information in the future. This time lapse shows a planet wide from view. However, you'll also notice Mars' the planet in the background. And they really are minutes this time lapse shows. Another time lapse move over the course of 22 minutes. Phobos orbits meaning it is the only moon in the solar system to Stepping past the last of the inner planets, there is a barrier to cross. The asteroid fascinating objects for Hubble to study, It may surprise you to hear that this is comet. It's even got two tails like we are in fact an asteroid found in the asteroid belt, it is believed that this 3.5 km wide asteroid to something called the YORP effect. Radiation meaning when it acts on an irregularly shaped the body to speed up its rotation. Asteroid it now rotates once every two hours, right Loose matter is being ejected into space by the gravity of the asteroid. Eventually as most asteroids and comets are not With somewhere between 1 and 2 a kilometre in this region, the asteroid belt is a chaotic place. To show This looks like a pretty standard comet, wouldn't though, what is this weird filamentary structure? nucleus. Again, this isn't even a comet. What you it is two asteroids colliding. This X shape near rubble being flung into space in four towards the centre of mass by the extremely having escaped the gravity well altogether. remain on a fairly stable circular orbit around as comets do, they would start having to worry Jupiter is sometimes referred to as the solar too. Jupiter by itself is so massive, it makes up system excluding the Sun. As a result, it has a This was particularly evident when the 2km wide gas giant in 1994. Jupiter's gravity not only meaning by the time Shoemaker-Levy impacted fragments. This was the first direct observation Shoemaker-Levy had been captured by Jupiter around was orbiting Jupiter as an active comet, again, this orbit took it too close to Jupiter's and only a year later these fragments impacted impacts caused fireballs over 23,000degc, which rose impact left a dark spot on Jupiter over 12,000km was estimated to have released energy equivalent the world's entire nuclear arsenal put together. have been imaged since, and give weight to the protecting the inner solar system Beyond its destructively powerful gravity, that are a little more on the ethereal side. You auroras. While you can see aurora with your naked brightest in the ultraviolet! As I mentioned meaning we can closely observe this is the easiest to spot, it's the biggest and its powerful magnetic field and strong the Juno spacecraft was on its way to a unique opportunity to measure solar wind on and observe subsequent changes in the aurora almost every day for several months. What Hubble times more powerful than on Earth, with a radiant they never cease. On Earth, aurora light up around auroras on Jupiter are not just powered by the the data it has collected suggests that particles in Jupiter's fierce radiation belt, magnetic field lines. The magnetic field also rather than direct currents. This accounts would be impossible if energy was transferred We've spent a lot of time with Jupiter, but one of its moons; Europa. After all, this may be Hubble has captured images of it in surprisingly For those of you that don't know, and is one of the most promising candidates for to find anything on the surface, but rather is an icy world and being this close to Jupiter that the energy produced from the tidal flexing to remain liquid. Various missions have since been Hubble has been very helpful in this endeavour. higher resolution images of Europa compared to closely, however these missions were not able to Hubble has spotted possible plumes of water activity would imply that the interior mantle of this suggests the ocean theory is lots more plumes have been detected. Hubble's Europa's surface. Most missions use infrared the interesting emission bands of substances are or salts similar to those found in our oceans, which means these salts on the surface of Europa the visible light spectrum, confirmed that sodium likely having originated from the underground deposited on the surface. The exciting prospect the ocean floor could be hydrothermally be a hive of life, so scientists are excited we may still be a few decades from having Let's continue our tour. There are and for our next image Hubble turns its Since Cassini ended its mission in 2017, Saturn the best view we now have of Saturn is courtesy observing Saturn, checking for various phenomena. giving us a better understanding of seasonal around Saturn for half a Saturnian year, meaning best as it can. The most notable events Hubble thousands of kms on the planet. But because all the data collection also provides some We're reaching the end of our tour, now, with just out from Earth, Hubble has captured more and more space telescope would have been increasingly at the first of the icy giants, Uranus. Much Hubble observe storms on its surface, and even had apparently do not line up with the rotational axis weird, appearing to be on its side compared to This means that at some points in Uranus' year, that it hardly ever experiences a solar eclipse we have had to witness this event, as the last before telescope technology was good enough to Hubble not only saw Ariel's shadow crossing over Uranus' bands. Since this equinox view, through its lengthy 84-year orbit, we have also been atmosphere. As a pole becomes more exposed to in colour. This is believed to be a large cloud and it is expected to dissipate again as Uranus is only 33 years old, it hasn't even been still a lot to learn about its seasons yet! about if it wasn't for Hubble is the smallest Neptune and Uranus have largely been only ever having one flyby in 1989 by NASA's about these massive worlds is still pretty were it not for Hubble observing them from time about Neptune was the discovery of a new moon in Hubble has discovered many moons in its time, makes Hippocamp special is that it could well be Proteus. The 400km wide moon does indeed look impact craters 50-100km in diameter. One of these which then fell into orbit around Neptune. as it's an irregular, 35 km long object, and As our penultimate destination, let's move onto never really designed to monitor our solar system, of Hubble's time to the outer ice giants, having we can better monitor seasonal changes in those of these changes are the giant storms spanning storm as it passed Neptune back in 1989, which to Jupiter's Great Red Spot. However, unlike disappeared altogether. Other storms have come and lasted a few years, but it too is now believed to to speculate how these vortices develop, it could atmosphere. While they won't be as defined or as would travel at different speeds. This could Once the storm has got going, it can drift around its power source, it begins to slowly diminish, Hubble is the only program that can monitor these they are very hard to spot. Hubble, though, can By this point, you might recognise that we've an end. But perhaps before we conclude, there beyond Neptune, that has been the target of of course, referring to 2007 OR10, or Gonggong... You would be forgiven if you have never heard biggest dwarf planet in our solar system, this dwarf planet is also found billions of object was not discovered by Hubble, Hubble discovered by the original investigator as it a research team had a suspicion that 2007 OR10 about 45 hours. Most other Kuiper belt objects that a moon's gravitational tug may have slowed data, it proved to be so. This discovery means belt have now been found to have their own moons. objects move pretty slowly. This means that then fragments would have stayed in orbit object's gravity. This could be why asteroids collisions there are a lot more energetic, Finding the moon around 2007 OR10 means that system formation models, so useful data indeed! Hubble has been to humanity's knowledge about far more than just this over the course of be the most important space mission to date, will be utilised for many years to come. it might even outlive its spiritual successor, in December 2021 but only is expected to last for to make up for its potentially shorter lifespan, of the same planets Hubble has imaged. I can't captured in the JWST's NIRCam. The fact that the range means that its images have an ethereal stunning detail the haze of auroras on Jupiter's detailed images of Jupiter's rings - yes, it I find this image of Neptune equally entrancing. and then realising that this is an entire really strikes home at the power that the caught some of the faintest rings of Neptune since Voyager 2 flew past. This is also the giving scientists much to learn about The Webb even has taken a cool image of Saturn, planet. This is a little misleading, though. almost all of the Infrared radiation coming in the icy rings are much less absorbent, Ultimately, however, there is no as the two are not directly competing. light they each are able to detect, the JWST picture of what these planets actually would Hubble can't detect all the bandwidths see. They each have their niche, and they I'm excited for what the James but this is definitely a good time to and I look forward to what the future will of what Hubble has done, I recommend Thanks for watching! All the