Hey folks, welcome to the channel! Today we're going to be building a &quot;cumai&quot; The outer cladding of this sword so here we're using 1095 and 15n20 Our starting billet looks something like is the 15n20 steel. After a little dip in the forge it goes. We're going to heat this up After a few heats the forge weld is graphic in the corner and turn it more into this... The machine i'm using here is a 30 work of steel. If you were doing this with Now that we've got this forged into a square We're going to put it in the squaring It's impossible for you to see here but this way we're going to re-square it Now i'm just drawing this Here it is all done, cut in half, because we're The next step is to twist each of we're going to round them out a little bit. This is to make sure that we don't have any sharp edges as we twist it. It Now we're doing the actual and i've just heated up the steel, locked After this, we're going to and we're going to get a Now i've got some kiss blocks set up constant thickness all the way Now I'm taking each bar to the rolling all the way down the bar. Now we're just straightening any curves We're ready to take this to the next step. Here we are with the finished twisted bars. 20 inches long. Now we're going to combine I've ground one side of each twisted bar the 1084. We're ready to weld this up and get it in just in case we get it too hot. We Now it's back in the forge and back This billet was so long I had to heat it up Now i'm using these aggressive rounding dies nice wavy pattern in our copper. Now it's just stretching and flattening, until we This billet was so long, I had to so it wouldn't hit the back wall with the billet. Now I'm just fixing the curve in the billet just to make sure it matches All right folks, there we are, finally done. The I could only heat up about this much of the blade 320 thousandths of an inch thick, which is fine. If see the core. The core is about 1/8 of an inch you definitely want the core to have a good the blade. For everyone that says &quot;you didn't You cannot forge these layered constructions, just ruin it. You have to do stock removal on these way around it, because if you try to start to forge and you'll destroy it. So we're going to cut I'm starting to do the rough This takes a little while. I'm not Now i'm grinding all that forge scale I managed to get it down to about 240 thousands of an inch. Almost 1/4 of an inch here. Tt tapers ever so slightly down to about 210 thousandths of an inch down here. All the while keeping the copper and is... what you may not know about Japanese swords Obviously this is not to scale, but something goes up and then there's a little angle here. do this like i do a false edge. I'll Here i'm using a scribe and some layout Now it's time to grind in the bevel. This is the really tough part folks, because I have one side done, now to It's time to clean up the tang area and and the ricasso. On Japanese blades that's All right, here it is after the initial I've done that little bevel at the top. It looks pretty good. It is now time to heat treat. We're going to heat treat it and then do some final grinding. The first step to around 1600 degrees fahrenheit then let it After a couple of normalization cycles we're 1500 degrees fahrenheit and quench it in oil. That's Because the tang was sticking out and it's Here we are, fresh out of the quench. I've cooled it PERFECTLY straight, so that's awesome! It's not even touching it at 65 hrc. That's really good. Okay, so and that is going be a little different because and fellow ABS journeyman smith, Rick Hall, Now the blade's is tempered and I've more toughness. We're going to check with the We ended up with about 58 hrc, which It's time to do the final grinding on bevel up a little higher and we're It's time to hand sand the blade. Yes folks, video editing, you're only going to &quot;Thanks Dad, I hate hand sanding&quot;. The blade's been sanded to 800 and otherwise known as the &quot;habaki&quot;. We're copper. I'll be heating this up to anneal right here. So bending that square and Unlike steel, heating up copper and quenching Now i'm putting a piece of silver Then we're going to heat up the hibaki and that Now we're just going to grind the hibaki to make The next piece is the guard. I'm It is just from a piece of square tube that i out the hole where the tang's will fit. There's our guard so far. Now i want to put a going to inlay some copper. I've got the dremel this around with a cutting disc to put that the dremel here because it spins at about 15000 Time to hammer in some copper wire that's I decided I needed some more embellishment on and put in some wave patterns. Well folks, this just came. This is a huge block of basswood. This is what i'll be using I just split these in half. I milled these out using the mill, just to make sure that the tang would fit. Now we are just going to glue these together to make After cutting out the rough shape just giving it some shape and contour. Now that the handle shaped, it's time to move on in this piece of wood and now i'm using It's time to weld these pieces together and finish them all off. Okay, finally done with the fittings for the then the butt-cap. There's Next step, we're going to be putting some stingray this pattern on one side. It's going here. Sorry, you want the seam on the top, sorry happens, it will hide the seam so we need to make Now on to the &quot;menuki&quot;. These are the the wrap on the handle. Of course All right, i've got this all wrapped but i'm First, the diamond is off centered a little bit. i want the menuki to be opposite it, so that's The other thing is this gap here. I thought it wrap was going to cover it but when I the first side is is right up against it, which is I was i was going to fill that with I'm going to end up re-wrapping it. The other thing this. I want it to be even. What i'm i'm going to grind down on the wrap on either side. It'll be recessed I've got a new piece of this. I can All the steel fittings are We want them black, so we're to get them nice and black. After about 15 minutes Now that the fittings are done we can move on to It's time to move back to the blade I'm also engraving &quot;Tyrell Knifeworks&quot; in All right, I've washed it in acetone First, we're going to get some And now in it goes. After a few dips in the acid, the blade goes and black. Now we're going to move on to doing scabbard and i'm using the mill to just mill Now i'm just cleaning up the edges with a chisel. protect the blade, glue it up and then we're going This is the final step. Are you guys Oh you better clean that up honey!