Most Software Engineers have a degree in Engineering reasons for this. One, Engineers can generally Math. One of the major reasons I was able Science degree is because I am above average Math I know in a short video. You anyway don't me do this. I'll share 5 essential Math of 20%, you can learn on the go as you encounter But why do programmers even need Math? Imagine that you are given a critical problem to solve. website because of an overloaded server. This minute because the client side is configured for every failed call. You talk to a Senior "Exponential Backoff" for retries. What She points you to the documentation. If your you a long time to understand and implement even after reading the documentation. And will see a huge drop because for many people, Now if that example doesn't convince you, Math. Most tech companies conduct coding interviews And whether you like it or not, they ask algorithmic end of the interview, the interviewer usually your solution. In order to answer these questions some basic Math concepts. Many people who have a hard time answering these questions. today keeping these interviews in mind. Now, I know that there's a sizable number and don't want to go through them. And I the vast majority of us, we don't have the we don't like one step of the process. This video To learn the first concept, we need to start contains a for loop nested inside another code? In other words, how many times would arbitrary value of N. This video is going to be interactive. So, you can pause this video and leave the answer in the comments. If your answer is O(N^2) or N^2 times, then to tell you. Most people who answer N^2 do with this other piece of code. They see a jump to the N^2 which is the wrong answer think from the first principles. Looking at for loop runs N times. Each time this outside loop K times. We don't know what that K shortly. So we print a total of K "Hello, the outer "for loop" which itself happens World!" statements. Now, if you look at this other easier and more popular piece of code, the internal loop also runs N times. So, K*N in this case is the code I gave you. What I want you to take that happens x times. And whenever A happens, x*y times. Now, to know the value of K in the last exercise, here is a question for you. You are given into 2 halves. You throw the right piece away You throw away the right half and keep breaking 1m left. How many times did you break the leave the answer down below. If you answered observation about the answer. If you take stick into every time and you take 5 which 5 times, you get 32 which is the original the power of 5 is 32. Whenever you have an of 32. Technically, it's logarithm to the think in terms of logarithm to the base 2. for our purpose. But it's important to know to base 10 when they say log. I recommend on your own. Anyway, in the generic case, the logarithm of N. So in the stick example, you broke the stick a total of log32 times, which is 5. Going back to the example with 2 for loops, if you look closely at the internal for loop, it does exactly You start with a stick of length 1. When you you are bringing a stick of the same length stick. And you keep doing it until you reach to double the length of the stick this way until you reach the length of N. Looking at stick example I gave you, It's going to be log(N) and that's the K we were looking for. So, World!" in this case is N*K, which is Nlog(N). If you sure you already seen that the stick breaking example is very similar to Binary Search algorithm. and some Heap related problems. Before I can explain what exponential means the third concept of the day. For that, 3 digit numbers can you make by using digits only once? You can pause the video and leave 6, then you are right. But what if I asked digits 1 to 9 without repetition? To answer a Factorial is. Let's see what factorial first digit A, second one B and the third number. For that we can use any digit from say we pick 2 here. For the second digit, use one digit only once. Let's say we pick one option left which is 1. So, A can have 3 values. For each A, B can have 2 values. And for each B, C can have 1 value. Can you we learnt today here? So, the total 3 digit and 1 which is 6. For a 9 digit number using of all the numbers from 1 to 9. And this multiplication Factorial is nothing but a multiplication the number itself. Factorial appears in many permutations of numbers etc. Now that we have that out of the way, let's For that, we need to go back to the 3 digit a little bit for you. How many 3 digit numbers use a digit more than once? I would love go back to the example I gave for the options for A, B and C. And that's why total into 3 which is 3 to the power 3. And this exponential backoff based on what we know you will after x seconds. If the request fails again, say, 2 times. If it fails again, you increase doing it. If you look closely, the wait time exponentially here. Hence, the name "exponential of something that is exponential is that it the spread of Covid was exponential because each of those 3 infect 3 more and so on. Exponential and it can be life changing for new programmers. have this nagging feeling that they are not and give up as a result. exponentiation from the book Atomic Habits each day for 365 days, you will be 38 times build bad habits and become just 1% worse today in one year. That's exponentiation Another concept you need to know about is mode is the same as what you would normally operator is written as a percentage sign. remainder when you divide 27 by 5. For negative mod and remainder which I recommend you read that use mod are "Find greatest common divisor So now you know the Math you need to become defined step by step path to learn programming. watch this video. My name is Sahil and I will