We are controlling several planes... Stay calm and everything will be fine. We return to the airport. American Airlines Plane 11 was hijacked ? Yes A popular revolution in Iran... a hostage-taking (in an embassy, another) in Mecca... An assassination of a Head of State in Egypt... A military invasion in Afghanistan... A series of attacks in the Philippines... An official reception in Washington. So many elements of a giant puzzle whose pieces are scattered across the four corners of the world, and spread over more than twenty years. 22 years, precisely... that's the length of time that separates the beginning of this story from that morning of September 11, 2001, the day of the most spectacular series of attacks of all time. During this period, a multitude of events will follow one another, like an infernal spiral that will lead us inexorably towards D-day. Today we will try to travel this road again. She crosses an Arab world in full change, a Soviet empire in decline, an America in the hands of apprentice sorcerers, and little by little the object of all hatred. We will stop at every crossroads, at every moment where the story could have been different. But in 22 years, nothing and no one has managed to deflect destiny. 8,243 days still separate us from September 11, 2001 when the Iranian revolution broke out... The Shah was overthrown, giving way to an Islamic regime led by the country's Shiite dignitaries. The United States, which loses one of its main allies in the region, becomes "The Great Satan"... and Ayatollah Khomeini the master of Iran. What we learned is that Islamists can bring down the government of a major nation and take power. This is what it showed the Islamists : "You see, the ayatollahs won in Iran against the Shah. Despite all his power and fortune, he was overthrown by a popular rebellion, led by the equivalents of the mullahs. You can do the same in your country." While the whole world has its eyes on Iran, a group of radical Islamists is attempting a coup in Saudi Arabia. The commando takes tens of thousands of pilgrims hostage in the Great Mosque of Mecca Al-Masjid al-Haram. During the final assault, hundreds of people are killed. 63 members of the commandos are beheaded in the public square. But the wind of revolt is blowing throughout the region, and despite the repression of the regimes in place, historical circumstances will indirectly strengthen the power of the Islamists. To understand the significance of the Mecca events of 1979, one must keep two things in mind. First, the course of events that preceded them. And then, the facts that were happening at the same time. That is to say the Iranian revolution and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. These three factors made the 1980s the golden age of what we call the Sahwa : the renaissance, or awakening of the Muslim world. Operation "Bourrasque 333" has just begun. This is the code name given by the Soviets to the invasion of Afghanistan. The Red Army, which took control of Kabul airport in a few hours, is sweeping down the road that crosses the country from East to West, the "route of invasions". At the same time, in the Kremlin, the old guard of the Politburo still has control over the USSR. The decision to invade Afghanistan was made practically in secret, at the highest level of the state. Within the Politburo, two people who will change the world take a very dim view of this intervention. GORBACHEV and I were stunned when we learned that the Soviet army entered Afghanistan, there were two or three Polit Bureau members who made this decision. No more. from the beginning I was against entering Afghanistan, me and GORBATCHEV. Even today I see before my eyes how people were massacred, how many victims there were on both sides. How many houses were destroyed, how many towns were razed. It was barbarism Of course, Afghanistan has always been an impossible country to conquer. No one has ever achieved it: you can look at it that way. But I think that the American experience showed that a country infinitely more powerful than the Vietnamese could not win the war if it was fought by an entire nation. It was impossible to achieve this. And when the Soviet Union entered Afghanistan, I'm sure the foreign policy experts in Washington said to themselves, &quot;This might be the Vietnam of the Soviet Union.&quot; And they were completely right. I, Ronald Reagan, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully serve as President of the United States. The hardliners in the Politburo find themselves as tough as they are... A new standoff begins, typical of the Cold War, where the Soviet Union and the United States fight through intermediary countries... From the start in 79 we said to ourselves that this could be the Vietnam of the Soviets. This war was going to be much more difficult than they thought and that we could very simply raise the stakes by arming the Afghan freedom fighters, giving them ammunition and money, to make sure they can continue the fight. That it would allow us to bleed the Soviets dry and get them to withdraw. In a way, we wanted our thugs to fight with their thugs. We wanted our bastards to win the battle against their bastards for once, and he realized that there was an opportunity to inflict a defeat on the Soviets in Afghanistan which would also be a strategic defeat against the Union. Soviet itself. History has shown this to be true. We are in the middle of the Cold War, and in the midst of a redistribution of cards in the Arab world. Since 1970, in Egypt, Sadat replaced Nasser, and the country has now left the Soviet camp for the American camp, following the so-called October War in 1973. A few years later, in 1978, Sadat signed the only agreement of peace between Israel and an Arab country. It follows the Camp David Accords wrenched by American President Jimmy Carter from the two lifelong enemies. But Sadat's gesture dissatisfied part of his people. And in particular the Muslim Brotherhood... This organization, which advocates radical political Islam, appeared at the end of the 1920s to fight against the British occupier. Banned or barely tolerated depending on the era, it has always been perceived as a threat by the powers in place. Sadat will nevertheless try to come to terms with this movement, traditionally very popular in Egypt. Sadat wanted to give himself his own legitimacy. He wanted to rule in his own name. Who opposed him? Marxists? Socialists? The Nasserists? He who was so pragmatic, and even, one could say, opportunistic, what did he do? He got the Muslim brothers out of prison. There is evidence that they received government assistance, that they were financed, that they were helped to organize. We have formal proof that the reconstruction of the group took place at the time with the blessing and support of the government. Sadat probably forgot to introduce another element to contain this new demon. When we look at Sadat's last days, it seems quite obvious that he lived quite isolated in his own world. He started calling himself "the hero of war and peace," "the loyal president," he was on the cover of Time magazine, he was on CBS, and he lost sight of what was going on. to happen. And what was happening was that the Islamists were now everywhere. So we went to the parade. Sadat, of course, was a very media personality, and he loved being surrounded by the media. He was therefore constantly surrounded by journalists and television cameras. We went to the parade, we were sitting, I was sitting there. I was seated less than 50 yards to Sadat's left. And then the shooting started. If it hadn't been for the peace treaty, I don't think Islamic Jihad would have assassinated Sadat. For the Islamists, Palestine was untouchable. Palestine should not be betrayed, and I think that even today it is still at the center of the Islamist cause. And for them, Sadat had betrayed the Palestinian cause. You can get a lion out of its cage, but the bigger the lion gets, and even if you keep it with you at home and cuddle it, and play with it, what you don't know is is that the lion, once grown up, will forget everything you have done for him. Sadat's killer was arrested at the scene. He is a lieutenant in the Egyptian army. But in all, nearly 300 Islamists were arrested for the occasion... Behind bars, the future executives of the Islamist nebula which will work throughout the world until today. The massive presence of the international press will give them an exceptional platform, and in particular to the one who poses as their spokesperson, Ayman Al Zawahiri. We want to address the whole world. Who are we ? Who are we ? Why did they put us here? And what do we want to say? As for the first question, we are Muslims. We are Muslims, who believe in religion, which is both an ideology and a practice. We believe in our religion, both ideology and practice, and we are doing everything possible to establish an Islamic state and society. Throughout this September 11 road to learn more about the men who make up the Islamist galaxy, we called on the services of Gerald Post. He specializes in the psychological profiling of different leaders in the Arab world. This psychiatrist also advised the CIA by providing the agency with profiles of major figures in global terrorism. In this photo we see that he has notes . We see him deliver words that are designed to capture the world's attention , and he did. Interestingly, he trained as a doctor. How can a doctor become the leader of a violent terrorist organization? This contradicts the image of the terrorist in the collective imagination. Here is a doctor who received a very high education, who is also a surgeon, and who would later be , among other things, the personal doctor of Osama bin Laden, with whom he co-founded the Base, Al Qaeda. What Ayman al Zawahiti understood very well is that terrorism is, to use a cliche which is nevertheless very true, a war to win hearts and minds. Terrorism is still psychological warfare , but they have taken it to a new level. Judges hand down 5 death sentences against Sadat's assassins. Ayman Al Zawahiri will be released after 3 years in Egyptian jails. He will be tortured there, and will give up the names of a certain number of clandestine Islamist leaders. These years are crucial in Al Zawahiri's career. They only reinforce his radicalism and his hatred of the regime, in line with his mentor, Sayyid Qutb, the spiritual father of the most radical Islamism. An important member of the Muslim Brotherhood movement, Qutb was sentenced to death and executed in 1966. Montasser Al Zayat was close to Al Zawahiri, whom he worked with during their years of detention. Al Zayat was his lawyer at the time. The two men were traveling companions during the 1980s. Throughout the period of his detention, his mind was marked by the confessions he made under interrogation, despite his status as a great &quot;executive&quot; (or leader) in the world of radical secret organizations But, after his release from prison, he began to recover his intellect, and regain his ability to maneuver, Zawahiri was very influenced by the thought of Sayyid Qutb, this is the reason why he frequently said that It was necessary to bring down the regime. He believed that this could not be done without military intervention, and to do this, he always hoped to have infiltrated members within the military institution itself. Thus, even if he did not have a direct role in the assassination of Saddat, the security services took stock of the danger he represented. Indeed, they realized, by chance, after they got their hands on him, that he had an entire organization within the armed forces, more than 24 officers, that's where the danger lay. by Ayman Zawahiri, Peshawar, on the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan, is now the hub of the war against the Soviets. Aid to the Aghan resistance fighters, the Mujahidins, is being organized, with the support of Western powers, led by the United States. An important coordination office was set up in Peshawar, the MAK (for Maktab al-Khidamat) also called the "Services Office"... It is here that the international flow of volunteers who came to fight the communists alongside the Afghans transits. At the head of the services office, a cleric of Palestinian origin revered by his troops, Abdullah Azzam. Azzam is the key man in the policy of recruiting Muslim volunteers who - in the name of the holy war, Jihad - are flocking from all over the world. My nom de guerre is Abdullah Anas. My real name is Boudjema Bounoua. I was born in Algeria. In my youth, my dream was to lead jihad for Allah. This was the hope of any young Muslim at the time. I was one of the founders of the Service Bureau with Sheikh Abdullah Azzam, and in late 1984 Osama bin Laden joined us as a co-founder. He came from a wealthy family, and could cover all the office expenses. As for Zawahiri, that's another story. When he came to Afghanistan, he came with his own idea, which was linked to the rivalry that existed between Jama'at al-Tahwid wal-Jihad, this Egyptian jihadist group, and the Muslim Brotherhood. They hated each other. So when he was released from prison and arrived in Peshawar, he was not part of the Service Bureau. He was not with Sheikh Abdullah Azzam, Bin Laden and us. His priority was to prevent people there from joining the Muslim Brotherhood, and therefore not to follow Abdullah Azzam, who would have automatically led them to the Muslim Brotherhood. That was in his head. It was not true. But I think his rivalry with the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt made him completely paranoid, and he brought that conflict with him to Peshawar. I remember, I was number 14 at the end of 83. At the end of the 80s, there were maybe 3000, 4000 Arabs and Muslims. There were more and more of us. Until 88, Osama bin Laden, Sheikh Abudallh Azzam and all of us, who founded the services office, worked together. But at the end of 88, Osama left to join this Egyptian jihadist group, Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad, and there we found people like Zawahiri, Sayyed Imam, Abdul Fadhl... They did not participate in Jihad in Afghanistan. They had come to Peshawar with their own strategy. Nobody knew their intentions, there were very few of them. They set to work and were joined by Osama bin Laden. They formed a group, and became what we now call Al Qaeda. Essential pieces of the puzzle then appear in the United States, 12,000 km away. We are in the mid-1980s Sensitive information from the American army reaches the Islamists in Afghanistan directly via a mysterious channel. It will take several years to find out who is responsible. He is one of the main players we will meet on our long road to September 11. This is a former Egyptian army officer, now an American citizen, Ali Mohammed. Ali Mohammed now lives in secret, under a false identity. 20 years later, the mystery surrounding his story is still as thick as ever. Jack Cloonan was in charge of the investigation for the FBI at the time. From the war in Afghanistan to the attacks of 2001, he followed all the stages and ramifications of Islamic terrorism. Ali Abdul Saoud Mohamed was a fascinating character, very intelligent, and who loved to talk about current operations. He was close to Ayman A Zawahiri. He was very hostile to the Mubarak government. As you probably know, he was excluded from the Egyptian Special Forces in 1981 because of his Islamist sympathies. He was involved to some extent in Sadat's assassination. Everywhere we look, this guy, Ali Mohammed, suddenly appears. The question that arises is, what is this story? Who is it ? We need to seriously monitor him... Ayman al-Zawahiri had specifically ordered him to infiltrate the government apparatus American. He tried to get recruited by the FBI. He certainly worked for a time for the CIA as a correspondent, but for a very short time, and they had the good sense to get rid of him. Then he joined the army at age 34, after serving as a colonel in the Egyptian Special Forces. 1987... Ali Mohammed is integrated into the elite troops of the prestigious Fort Bragg regiment, in North Carolina. Unprecedentedly, he openly continues his missions for the Mujahedin in Afghanistan, while he is an American soldier. This is a violation of the law of neutrality. It's illegal. He shouldn't have been able to do it. What was Ali doing in Afghanistan? What connections was he making? Why did we rely on him? And was he providing the mujahideen with information that could harm American interests? The answer ended up being very clear. He worked for Ayman al-Zawahiri at that time. Did we know, at the time, who al-Zawahiri was? In the 1980s, was Ayman al-Zawahiri, an Egyptian Islamist, considered a threat? The answer is no. We didn't see things like that. During joint military maneuvers, the Egyptians were alarmed by the presence in the American ranks of Ali Mohammed. They know who he is, know his connections in terrorist circles. He was immediately repatriated to the United States, where the case was closed. Clearly, Ali is a manipulator. He thought he was smarter than the CIA, the FBI and the whole world. My commanding officer at Fort Bragg, the other officers in the unit, and ultimately myself, were all asking, "How did Muhammad Ali get to America? How did he end up in the US Army?" I do not know. Did this story have consequences in the American army? Were there any sanctions? Not that I know of, no. For what ? I do not know. But in your opinion? I do not know. I have no response. But do you have an idea? No. I don't understand. I don't understand how this happened. Obviously, none of this could have happened if there wasn't "something " at work at a higher level. But what it was, I have no idea. To try to understand these dysfunctions, these failures and why there was no investigation, you have to go to Brooklyn, a stone's throw from Manhattan and the World Trade Center towers. This is where the small Al Farooq mosque, an essential crossroads on our road for the next 10 years. The Al Farooq mosque in Brooklyn was at the time the headquarters of the "Al-Kifah Center", which was none other than the American branch of the Peshawar Services Bureau, headed by Abdallah Azzam... Around the mosque gravitated a few individuals who train together in the use of weapons and combat techniques. Officially, they intend to join the Jihad in Afghanistan, and their activities do not worry the authorities. Especially since their teacher is himself a non-commissioned officer in the American army. His name is... Ali Mohammed. The Al Khifa refugee center, by definition, was clearly intended to recruit mujahideen to wage war against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan. But at that time, we didn't see him as a danger, an internal threat. I would say at the time saw it as a strange organization. We didn't really understand what the mujahideen were, except that they were fighting against those who were our enemies at the time, the Soviets, so what could be the harm in that? It ended up being a real dilemma, and over time the perspective on the Al-Khifa refugee center completely changed. Around the mosque gravitate a few individuals who train together in the use of weapons and combat techniques. Officially, they intend to join the Jihad in Afghanistan, and their activities do not worry the authorities. Especially since their teacher is himself a non-commissioned officer in the American army. His name is... Ali Mohammed. I understand well why the mujahideen used it to their advantage. Why would they have abstained? Here's a guy who's in the US Army at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, he has access to maps, he has access to all the best books and reference data that the US government has on military operations. He was the one who single-handedly took all this training material, translated it from English to Arabic, and sent it to the mujahideen. Ali Mohamed created the Encyclopedia of Jihad: the training program that was used throughout Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, the war is bogged down... The Soviets have total control of the air, but on the ground, the Mujahidins manage to control a large part of the territory. The United States of Ronald Reagan then decided to intensify its policy of support for the Afghan resistance fighters. It is time for the war of symbols: the Soviet international fraternity against the Free World ranked under the American banner. Just as the Columbia shuttle represents in my opinion the highest aspirations of man in the field of science and technology, the fight of the Afghan people represents the highest aspirations of man in the field of freedom . On behalf of the American people, I dedicate this March 22 launch of the Columbia shuttle to the people of Afghanistan. Reagan defined the Soviet Union as the evil empire. We talk about good and evil, here, we are in the religious domain. There was a crusade the communists enemies of God, and the Christian right enthusiastically supported the policy of stopping communism. Where it becomes interesting, and I imagine that you will continue in this direction, is that in this crusade who did we support, in the 80s, in Afghanistan...? The Islamists: you know, at the time, Jihad was not a pejorative word. Today, Jihad, in American vocabulary, and I suppose it is the same in European vocabulary, has become synonymous with terrorism. But during the Reagan era, when the United States supported Afghan freedom fighters, Jihadist was synonymous with freedom fighter. That's what Reagan, the great communicator, always called the mujahideen: freedom fighters. Reagan openly supported jihadists, including some who are now our enemies. We continue our route, towards McLean, in the suburbs of Washington. We are awaited there by CIA agents, responsible at the time for implementing this sorcerer's apprentice policy desired by Ronald Reagan. It is in this wealthy neighborhood - light years away from the conflicts ravaging the world - that part of the fate of the planet is decided... Weapons are delivered en masse to the different factions of the Afghan resistance, according to a classification provided by the Pakistanis. At the top of their list, the most radical Islamist leaders, those to whom they are closest, like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar... I began working in December 1985 on what was, and still is, the largest clandestine operation of the CIA, the one which aimed to support the Afghan mujahideen. Pakistan's secret service, the ISI, played a major role. The Pakistanis were training the Afghans, distributing weapons to them, and frankly, they were doing a terribly effective job. We didn't really have an impact on the pitch, in terms of tactics. The Afghans did what they wanted, and as long as they killed Soviets... that was the main goal of the operation, so we had nothing to complain about. Weapons are delivered en masse to the different factions of the Afghan resistance, according to a classification provided by the Pakistanis. At the top of their list, the most radical Islamist leaders, those to whom they are closest, like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar... The Pakistanis told us: "he is the most effective, militarily", and so we had a list who said who killed the most Soviets, who shot down the most targets, and it was Gulbuddin. But yet, what the Americans did not realize was that the Pakistanis' decisions were based as much on on political rather than military interests. Gulbuddin did not behave like an Islamist at that time. I didn't see him as an Islamist; he had political goals, of course, but I don't think anyone saw him as an Islamist who was going to associate with bin Laden. We didn't even know who Bin Laden was at the time, we didn't even spot him for several years. Majority Republican, in total phase with President Reagan's anti-communist crusade , Congress voted without hesitation for the budgetary extensions necessary for the fight against the Soviets in Afghanistan. Since the beginning of the 1980s, a secret agreement with Saudi Arabia even provides for a doubling of credits thanks to Saudi petrodollars. For the Saudi royal family, this was not an Islamic mission: it was just a service rendered to the Americans. But in fact it helped the Islamist cause, because it allowed the Islamists to go to Afghanistan with the help of their government and under American protection. This allowed them to carry out a "life-size" Jihad. This is the first time they were able to implement Jihad on a large scale. Not just Afghans, but all Arabs who wanted to join Jihad. The United States was the first to encourage volunteers to leave for Jihad in Afghanistan to fight the Soviets. The CIA controls the recruitment process for these Islamists who - a few years later - will become their pet peeves. There were Palestinians, Libyans, Lebanese, people from South Asia, Pakistanis, Indians... The CIA and Bin Laden, who was an asset at the time, recruited people who went to the United States to be trained, educated, rewarded, debriefed. All that. They were sent to fight the Soviets in Afghanistan. Basically, they were taught how to blow things up and knock things down. I suppose it would be better if I told you that the CIA has no comment on this subject but I think the story deserves better. There is no legal or regulatory provision that determines how the agency can help people obtain a visa. I think that if the agency had an operational interest in someone in the United States, there would be a strong likelihood that it would ask Foreign Affairs for help. I think that would be normal procedure . The CIA is very closely linked to Foreign Affairs. Depending on who you talk to, between a third and a half of the people who work in Foreign Affairs actually work for one of the intelligence agencies. It stays in the family, for example, the CIA can issue at least 50 permanent resident cards not, without justification, for national security reasons. How can we doubt that the Ce /i/ A had links with at least some of the jihadists at the time they were fighting against the Soviet army? They had a common goal. Bin Laden did not hide that for himself: the enemy of my enemy can be my friend. We don't have to sleep together, but we have a common enemy. They worked together, historically, there is no doubt about it, it is now proven. But I'm not a fan of the conspiracy theory, of people saying that Bin Laden is a creature of the CIA. I'm also not idealistic enough to think that the CIA did all this for the sake of Islam. they each had their own interests, interests which may have converged at some point. The Soviet Union killed a lot of mujahideen because they didn't use the anti-aircraft weapons, the SAM 7, that they had correctly, or they didn't work . It eventually turned out that these SAM 7s, acquired in Poland, came from an ammunition reserve that the Soviet army had sabotaged. They were therefore perfectly aware that the West was supplying SAM 7s to the mujahideen, and that they were not working . President Reagan decides that aid to the Mujahedin will no longer be clandestine. This is the turning point of the war. The delivery of American Stingers missiles to the resistance will change the course of History. The Soviets were completely taken by surprise. They were completely taken by surprise, when the Stingers appeared. And they lost a lot of helicopters before they even realized what was happening. Stingers missiles suddenly give the resistance the advantage. And at the same time to the Arab volunteers who fight alongside him... It is the apogee of the jihadists, more and more intoxicated by the victories which follow one another. We all knew that the Arabs were active in Afghanistan, and that they saw this as an opportunity to reinvigorate the doctrine of Jihad. But back then, they were on the side of the angels: they were killing Russians, and they were very happy to fight and die. And we said to ourselves, let's take things in order: the Cold War was clearly our biggest problem. The Soviet Union is therefore faced with a difficult strategic choice: massively increase its troops in Afghanistan while the Empire is already running out of steam, or withdraw... So I went to Afghanistan. We met with the officers and soldiers. Around 800 people attended this meeting. Like the member of Polit Bureau I spoke. I greeted them and told them that I have good news to tell them. The Soviet government has made the decision for your return to the country. I expected them to stand up and applaud me. I expect ovations. Nobody moves. They didn't want to go back. Several of them became millionaires. Some sold weapons, others trafficked in gold - Journalist question (woman's voice): And drugs... and drugs. When I saw that there was no reaction, I told them it's not a request and that it's an order And then the Soviet Union withdrew in 89, it was very spectacular. It was not a gradual withdrawal, as we are doing in Iraq. No, it was very impressive. All the Soviet troops, in a single column, all those who remained, they crossed the Termez River, on the border with Uzbekistan. A spectacular withdrawal, on a specific date. And in the United States, we completely lost interest in Afghanistan because our mission was to drive the Russian enemies of God out of Afghanistan. And it was done, mission accomplished. The Soviet Union was truly the evil empire. If we had allowed the Soviet Union to continue for another 10, 20, 50 years, how many would have died, compared to the 3,000 victims? If I were asked to make this choice in 1985 with what I know in 2010, I would do it. We suffered an unintended consequence for having temporarily supported, and perhaps incited, a violent Islamist movement to bring about the defeat of the Soviet Union. I think it was worth it. Once the invader left, that's when things started. When these people who now had weapons, and modern weapons, who had won this war and who were very proud of it, began to say to themselves "Hey, we could also do things elsewhere". In the weeks following the Soviet withdrawal, the Afghan warlords, until then allied against the invader, were torn apart. Afghanistan is rapidly descending into civil war and chaos. The war in Afghanistan ended well for the Arab fighters. But the next day they became disillusioned. Yes, okay, Afghanistan was liberated, but what happens next: A civil war between mujahideen. The Arab fighters found themselves trapped. They didn't know which side to side with, who to ally with, who is right and who is wrong, and the other problem was: where to go from now on. Okay, mission accomplished. And now ? It was a huge mistake on the part of the United States to just withdraw, to just leave Afghanistan the way we did. There are millions of refugees who crossed the Pakistani border living in refugee camps in Pakistan. Here again, the link with what is happening today is obvious. What we could have done, and didn't do, was set up a program to help these refugees return home and resume their lives. But we had left. And so the refugee camps continue to exist. And it is from these camps that most of those who carry out suicide attacks come. I believe that by abandoning this country, withdrawing and cutting off their supplies after declaring victory, we sowed the seeds of the current conflict. As the Soviet Union, undermined by the Afghan failure, begins its decomposition, the world enters the post- Cold War era in just a few weeks. In Berlin, in what was still at the time the GDR, the Democratic Republic of Germany, a wall collapses... The world begins to dream, to hope... But uncertainty quickly brings back the great of this world to their old quarrels The Gulf War is the first conflict of the post-Cold War. Freed from Soviet rule, Iraqi Saddam Hussein decides to invade neighboring Kuwait. The Arab countries are allying under the American banner against him. The Afghan Mujahedin are bearing the brunt of these new alliances. They felt a lot of bitterness towards the Americans and felt insulted and humiliated. They thought they would be rewarded with better homes, better jobs, better lives, but instead they found themselves abandoned, completely lost. After what happened to the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, the CIA took credit for the clandestine operations it had carried out. The Saudis took credit for the money and people they sent to carry out Jihad. Everyone took credit for the victory but they all forgot the Islamist fighting forces, for whom the credit went to Allah. And no one thought to put in place a real strategy or policy to contain these forces; in fact, they did the opposite. The mujahideen who wanted to return to their country were mostly unable to do so . They were unwanted. No Arab government wanted to welcome them back, because they were seen as a threat. Some went to continue Jihad in Bosnia. Others then went to Chechnya, etc. They were there. There was a whole army of experienced jihadists, some for combat, some for espionage, others for relations with the media, well in all areas. They just needed someone to bring them together. Osama Bin Laden will find in the aftermath of the Gulf War the cause which will allow him to unite this jihadist army behind him... Saddam Hussein has left Kuwait, but he remains the master of Iraq. The international coalition gives up pursuing him to Baghdad. But American troops are not leaving the region, particularly Saudi Arabia which remains their main base. The prolonged presence of American troops on the sacred land of the Arabian Peninsula is raising anger in the Muslim world. The Saudis were sending us all kinds of signals to make us understand that maybe it was time for us to leave. I remember telling Washingtont that it was a bit like after a dinner: your host got up, his wife went to bed , he told you he had to take the dog out, he turned out the light and 'air conditioning. But you stay seated. You are not leaving. You don't understand that you have to leave. And the fact that we did not understand, that we stayed long after we were no longer welcome, is one of the reasons why A Qaeda was able to establish itself in Saudi Arabia. Without this overconfidence in Saudi support for our efforts against Iraq, al-Qaeda probably would not have been able to recruit these 19 Saudis for the September 11 attacks. Since the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, the conflict that is tearing apart the management of the Peshawar Services Office has moved to American soil. With the Al Farooq Mosque in Brooklyn as its nerve center, an address that we find again at this stage of our itinerary. It is here that the American branch of this coordination center set up during the Afghan war by the Palestinian cleric Abdullah Azzam is located. Azzam has just been assassinated in Pechwar. Some time later, the manager of Brooklyn branch, Mustafa Shalabi, is killed in turn. Suspicions quickly fell on his associate in the Brooklyn center, Sheikh Abdel Rahman, the blind sheik, very active in recruiting fighters for Afghanistan, he is one of the leaders of the "clan of Egyptians", in the alongside Al Zawahiri. It was following an argument with the blind sheik that Shalabi was assassinated in Brooklyn. On November 5, 1990, what is today considered to be the first attack committed in the United States by this nebula that we do not yet call Al Qaeda took place... The Israeli extremist rabbi Meir Kahane, was killed in the middle of Manhattan. The assassin, El Sayyid Nosair, was injured during the attack. The FBI then realized that Nosair had been photographed during Islamist training at the Brooklyn mosque. To date, the assassination of Mustafa Shalabi has not been elucidated. But we have managed to understand the causes. Shalabi was Abdullah Azzam's representative. But he was also Egyptian, and was part of this whole group of Egyptians loyal to the blind Sheikh. And what happened was that when the Sheikh arrived in the United States, it caused a division. People who wanted to remain loyal to Azzam and follow his directives found themselves in opposition to the Sheikh. What Azzam wanted to do - Azzam's idea was "I'm going to bring all these people to fight against the Russians. And when we win, everyone goes home, and we resume our lives. We put the Russians out, and the war is over." For people like the blind Sheikh, and even Bin Laden now, if you think about it, it wasn't the end. It was the beginning. On November 5, 1990, what is today considered to be the first attack committed in the United States by this nebula that we do not yet call Al Qaeda took place... The Israeli extremist rabbi Meir Kahane, was killed in the middle of Manhattan. The assassin, El Sayyid Nosair, was injured during the attack. The FBI then realized that Nosair had been photographed during Islamist training at the Brooklyn mosque. After the assassination of Meir Kahane, I believe that when we saw Sayed Nosair and everything he represented, we realized that it had a real international dimension. That there were groups like the Muslim Brotherhood or Gama'a al-Islamiyya that had representatives here. It was a much broader network that connected the Soviet-Afghan war and what the mujahideen wanted to accomplish as an organization. But FBI investigators are struggling to become aware of the precise connections that unite the first pieces of the puzzle... From the basements of the Al Farouq Mosque in Brooklyn to Afghanistan, via Egypt and Pakistan, a figure The overall picture is just beginning to appear. It was a New York lawyer who was the first to realize the links that unite these different elements. His name is Roger Stavis. He was committed to the defense of El Nosair, the assassin of Rabbi Kahane. Maitre Stavis' line of defense is simple: his client is part of an organization supported by the American intelligence services. He starts digging, digs up confidential documents As soon as I started working on this case and looking at the documents that had been seized from Mr. Nosair's house , I noticed that there were a lot of things on Afghanistan. I found documents that came from Fort Bragg, from the Kennedy War College to Fort Bragg. I saw training manuals, shooting manuals, brochures to learn how to identify Soviet aircraft, planes, armored vehicles, all that kind of thing. If I could show that these people were focused on Afghanistan, that they were helping the mujahideen - in accordance with American foreign policy in the 1980s - then I could demonstrate that they were not waging an urban guerrilla against the UNITED STATES. But that they were, as I said in my plea, part of America's team. I was trying to show in my defense that there was a triangle that went from Fort Bragg to New York, then to Afghanistan, and back at Fort Bragg. And the key to the story was Sergeant Ali Muhammad. Ali Mohammed reappears precisely at this moment in history. Stavis discovers that it was he who was behind the leak of the secret documents found at Nosair's house. Ali Mohammed - then a sergeant in the American army - used these documents while providing combat training for the group of Islamists of which Nosair was a member. He is then the key witness that Stavis absolutely needs to support his line of defense. But Ali Mohammed is nowhere to be found... I knew nothing of his real intentions. I couldn't find it. I had no idea who he actually worked for. And despite my best efforts, I couldn't find it. I wanted him to testify, I sent investigators after him to serve him with a subpoena, which would have forced him to come and testify. And besides, his wife in California hadn't seen him for a year at the time. Ali Mohammed is, however, in California. But only a few FBI agents know this. Against all expectations, he has just accepted a dinner invitation from Jack Cloonan, who is trying to use him. He was very suspicious, and he had good reason to be, because he knew everything he had done over the past few years, and who he had been around. So he came to dinner one night with a few agents and a wonderful federal prosecutor, Pat Fitzgerald, and we talked that night with Ali, and I remember after that dinner Pat Fiztgerald said to me, "this is perhaps the most dangerous man I have ever met". And we decided that we needed his cooperation because he was telling us all kinds of things. He told us he could disappear whenever he wanted. that he had contacts abroad, that in fact he was still active. At first we thought he was exaggerating, that he was making these things up, but the more we dug, the more we realized that he was completely serious, and that he understood the history of Al Qaeda very well. , that he understood what was happening in Afghanistan, and that he had helped set up training camps there. He knew where the training camps were located, knew what the mujahideen training program was, was operational. So we decided to convince him to cooperate. The connections become clearer, and multiply... Ali Mohammed is linked to Ayman Al Zawahiri, who charged him with infiltrating the American army... When a few years earlier, during the trial of Sadat's assassins, Zawahiri takes the international press to witness, a few meters from him is another key figure of the "clan of the Egyptians", Sheikh Abdel Rahman, alias the blind Sheikh... Sheikh Abdul Rahman is a rather intriguing character. He went blind when he was still a child due to diabetes, but he still had a lot of charisma. Not in spite of his blindness, but partly because of it. I believe that this fragility is part of his power of attraction and his charisma. Many charismatic leaders are not very solid individuals, quite the contrary, and it is from these fragile individuals that these powerful words come, carrying the truth with a capital T. He was tortured for a long time, for around 3 years, to confess his role in... creating the climate that led to Sadat's assassination. Ultimately, he was not convicted, in part because of his blindness. How can you condemn a man just because of his words? We are ordained those who view religion lightly, who view it as a game, a pastime. There is no other way out. We must sacrifice heads. We must offer martyrs. Blood must flow. There will be widows. There will be orphans. Hands and limbs will be cut off. Everywhere, so that the religion of God can be restored. Without it, we will just indulge in fantasies. The FBI is beginning to take a close interest in the blind Sheikh since numerous tapes of his sermons were found in the home of El Sayyid Nosair, the assassin of Rabbi Kahane... It was very, very difficult to obtain internal information. We had gained a lot of information from people observing these groups from the outside. But we had difficulty obtaining first- hand information, from his inner circle. The FBI then recruited an informant in the Egyptian community, who managed to infiltrate the group by mingling with the Sheikh's followers... For fear of reprisals, the man - who was then called Emad Sallem - has since changed his identity and lives in hiding. He changed his appearance for this interview. John Anticev, Agent John, came up to me one day with Agent Nancy Floyd, and they said "We want to show you a picture. Do you know this man?" I said "Of course, it's Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman". "Who is Sheikh Omar?" I replied "He is one of the people who ordered the assassination of my president". " Well, guess what, he's in America." I said, "That surprises me, because I know that since he fled Egypt, he's on the terrorist list, and he shouldn't be able to enter anywhere." They said, "Well, apparently he made it to America, and he lives in New Jersey." To this day, I do not know why the blind Sheikh received a visa to come to the United States . There has never been a satisfactory explanation. I believe that even the 9/11 commission was unable to get to the bottom of the story. Clearly, everyone knew who the Blind Sheikh was. We knew what his speech was. We knew he represented a real threat to the internal security of the United States. Sheikh Omar asked his correspondent at the CIA to be able to come to the United States. This was his reward for his efforts in the war against the Russians - the Russo-Afghan War. And somehow it was accepted, he received his reward and was able to enter the United States. Everything he says has the force of law. All his orders must be obeyed. If you are part of this group, which was my case, you subsequently had to give him the beya, which means giving him your life, dedicating your life entirely to him. Once he accepts your life, if he asks you to go get laid somewhere, you're obligated to do it. Or throw you out of the window - he owns your existence. Emad Sallem gradually manages to join the first circle of followers of the blind Sheikh. He received the order to accompany him by car to Detroit, nearly 1000 km northwest of New York... I was sitting near him, he asked me a series of questions: what I was doing in the army, what I had as experience. I told him "I was a very, very good shooter. I was part of the weapons and munitions division, I dealt with bombs, missiles, that sort of thing." He replies "Okay, this is your opportunity to please God. President Mubarak comes on Wednesday, prepare your gun, point it at his chest, and kill him." It took me a quarter of a second to recover from the shock. Then, of course, we got to Detroit, I called my Egyptian friends and told the FBI to cancel Mubarak's visit on their end too, so the trip ended up being canceled, and the President Mubarak did not come. So, thank goodness I didn't have to take part in these types of activities. Emad continues to frequent the group of Islamists linked to the Al Farooq Mosque in Brooklyn and to El Nosair... Now fully infiltrated in the group, he can no longer back down. I was in Brooklyn with Ibrahin El Gabbrony, Sayed Nosairs' cousin. He told me "Brother, we have to do something to put pressure on the government so that it doesn't cause more problems for Sayed". I tell him, "Of course, we have to do something." He said to me "Okay, do you know how to make a bomb?" I said to him "Of course, it's our job". He says, "Okay, I want you to make some bombs and I'll tell you after. What do you need ?&quot;. So I said to Ibrahim el Gabbrony: "I need explosives, detonators, people to help me make the bombs, and a safe place to make them." He said to me "Okay, I'll make a few calls to Afghanistan". As an intelligence asset, as we say in our profession, he was promised that he would not have to testify in court in a criminal case. It was like that - when we hired him, we didn't doubt for a moment that it would take a long time before we delivered anything. And so when he found himself involved in assassination and bomb-making projects, we obviously had to move up a gear. We had to move from an intelligence operation to a criminal investigation, and we had to collect evidence to be able to arrest these people. At that time, witness number 1 was Emad Salem himself. And he didn't want to testify. We were trying to convince him to wear a microphone during his meetings with these people and discussions that revolved around assassinations, murders and bombs, so that he could record them. He refused. As I said, he was very stubborn, very proud, and you couldn't make him do anything he didn't want to do. And our superiors wanted him to wear a microphone. And unfortunately, it turned into a standoff. So they tell him like this: "If you don't wear a microphone, if you don't testify in court, we'll stop paying you." It has become a ridiculous personal matter. He actually said, I quote, "you bastard, you come from the Middle East with still sand in your shoes and you come up to my office to tell me how to run the FBI and how to do my job." I told him "Sir, I am doing your job. None of your agents could have infiltrated this organization so deeply, and I did it, you don't do it ." This pissed him off even more and he told me "Get out of here". I walked out of his office, looked at Nancy and John, and said, "Guys, when this bomb is built and goes off, don't bother coming to see me." And it was over, I left. The FBI tries to continue its investigations, but it has just lost its best asset. In his mind, Emad Sallem having left the scene, the terrorist group no longer has a pyrotechnician at its disposal... It is a terrible mistake... The blind Sheikh and his contacts in Afghanistan do not take long to find a replacing Emad Sallem... He arrived a few days later at Kennedy Airport in New York on a flight from Pakistan... And who arrived in the United States in September 92? Ramzi Youssef. Immediately, he got in touch with the same people, and became their pyrotechnician in place of our informant, Emad Salem. And he made the bomb for the 93 WTC attack. On February 26, 1993, the two towers of the World Trade Center in New York were the targets of a car bomb attack. The 680 kg nitrate bomb made by Ramzy Yousef was intended to tip the first tower onto the second. His plan failed, with just a few kilos of explosives ready. 6 people were killed in this first attack, and more than 1000 injured, but the bomb was placed in the exact location that could have caused the collapse of the two towers, 8 years before September 11, 2001. FBI agents are dismayed . Until now, no one was aware of the web that was woven before their eyes. To be completely honest, I was devastated. I relived this moment several times in my mind: my pager rang, it was Detective Napoli. I called him back and he said "You're not going to believe this, they found the remains of the van that was used to transport the explosives, it was rented in Jersey City, by the Ryder company, and the person who rented it is called Mohammad Salameh". And let me tell you, I went "Oh my god, we have pictures of Mohammad. We have photos of Mohammad in training. He's a friend of Nosair. He's a friend to all the guys we've been watching for years. And I told him: "Look, these are the guys we're watching." You know, the reason we arrested them all so quickly was because we knew about them. But unfortunately not enough to prevent the attack.