- [Derek] This is a Strandbeest. It's a walking skeleton that's powered only by the wind, created by Dutch inventor Theo Jansen. There are no motors and no electronics, and they're made of - Tape and glue and snot and screws, and gets that force to transfer, is really thrilling to me. - I mean, now it's on &quot;The Simpsons.&quot; - The Strandbeest. - Uh, is this science or garbage? - Dutch art. - [Derek] But how do they actually work, and why did he build them? Well, it all started 34 years ago. - I promised myself to That was in 1990. That got totally out of hand. - A little. (elegant classical music) - [Derek] Now, Jansen's thinking bigger. - I hope that that these all the circumstances here on the beach, like the storms and Hopefully at the end of and that they can live on their own. That's the idea. A new specimen on Earth. - [Derek] But to achieve this goal, the beest had to overcome The first is that they had - The beginning, I had lots of trouble with the connections, the joints. I used Sellotape to connect them. And it all broke, you know. - [Derek] As a result, all the beest could do was lie on its back and move its legs a little. Yeah, I can imagine the is stop using tape. (chuckling) Like, tape is - Right. Yeah, no, it was very short term. You can look at some of the pictures. It's just like, you see some tubes, but you mostly see tape everywhere trying to hold it together. And so he too realizes this very quickly. So the first fix to using zip ties. Much more elegant, much more clean, way, way stronger. - [Derek] Jansen restricted himself to only a few basic materials. Still, five more hurdles remained, the next of which was getting To do this, Jansen realized that the path traced out by their foot as it moves is extremely important, because if that's wonky the beest will likely lose its balance. But if instead it traces along the bottom, well, then the beest and walk properly. Now, you can get drastically by changing the proportions of these tubes and where they're placed. Some footpaths might be wonky, others a bit flat, or just about anything in between. But how do you find the right one? That's what Jansen wanted to find out. So in 1990, he wrote a computer program that could compute the footpath for any given combination of proportions. Now, you might think, &quot;Just have the computer go over trillions of possible options and then pick the best one.&quot; But that doesn't work. - Then my computer would be on for a hundred thousand years, yeah. So that's why I use this evolution method where you can come there a lot faster. - [Derek] So, Jansen ran with 1,500 different resulting in 1,500 different footpaths. Now, none of these curves had a great flat surface at the bottom, but some were slightly Those combinations would then reproduce and multiply with slight changes into 1,500 new combinations. This evolutionary process went until, by the end of it, these 13 holy numbers came out. That's how he describes it. They describe the proportions so that when you put them all together and start rotating the they give you this footpath. This is the path that just about every for over 30 years. If you then connect where each leg is out of phase then you get this continuous smooth walk. And those 13 holy numbers? Well, I guess you could see that as the genetic code of the Strandbeest. - And the reason you is so that there's always feet that are in contact with the ground, which gives you this smooth ride. - [Derek] And getting In 2016, my friend and original built his own pedal-powered Strandbeest. - I found the movement of because it felt like looking There's a tremendous amount and that he builds all tape and glue and snot and screws and gets that force to transfer is really thrilling to me. To be honest, I built in their parking lot, over three days, and for two days, I was getting it wrong. - [Derek] Adam tried all kinds but without success. - But I remember building the Strandbeest and hearing this guy talking about something and I'm tuning him out, tuning And then at four o'clock four o'clock in the morning, I woke up and I was like, (both laughing) And he saw it on the He saw that I had missed, in I had missed one of the linkages, and that I had this length of the center triangle linkage off, and I needed to push it out. And it was like night and day. I came in, fixed that thing, cut all the way up the extended everything by an inch, and all of a sudden it just walked. It was like, when you get it - Ah, yes, yes! (whoops and laughs) - Did you ever give that guy a heads up and be like, &quot;Hey, yeah.&quot; - I did, but not till the end of the day. - [Derek] Okay. - I didn't wanna give him the satisfaction while I was still working. (both laughing) That's my ego. (laughs) - [Derek] But Adam's beest (wind and sand whooshing) Jansen's beests, on the other hand, spend the entire summer on the beach, where they're exposed to the elements. So all the remaining hurdles are about surviving and One major challenge is dealing with sand. - [Casper] And the sand is very fluffy, so it's very easy for them to get stuck, especially if it's a stick. It would just bury itself in, and then it cannot move, so it can survive. - [Derek] To prevent this from happening, the beests evolved feet - What you can immediately see is that it's not just a stick Instead, you've got this Then it's much easier for it - [Derek] But they also fulfill - You've got these wires here, and what this does, together away with the is it provides a lot more contact time where the foot is basically So, when this foot is in it can get taken over by another And as a result you get which is what you're looking for, to save the structure of the Strandbeest and not put too much pressure on it. - [Adam] Because I built Theo explained to me that having a couple of inches of play in the linkage between the was mission critical to allow that foot to stay in place while the linkage got the other And that's apparently is, you know, it's not a like a robot. There is the swing, - [Derek] But the beests I mean, sometimes they're for days or weeks. And then, sand poses another major threat. - If you leave a structure you come back after three weeks and it's totally covered with sand. To avoid that, I thought maybe if they the sand goes under - [Derek] This is how But the beests also face more So, how can they increase during these times? Well, for regular animals, it's typically easier to by banding together. And the same holds true for Strandbeests. - And the idea behind this animal was that they would survive holding each other, because if you see an if you put it on the beach, it blows over very easy. So as an individual, But as a group holding each other, they are stronger in strong winds. - [Derek] This also allows for a different type of Strandbeest - One that can be pulled. And the big ideas actually by the other Strandbeest. Now, I asked Theo if I can So, we can grab it right here. There's some hand markings, and then now I should be the motor, and his crawler should come behind me. So let's see. Oh man, this is cool. This is very cool. Walking a Strandbeest up a Dutch Beach. What an epic job. - Strandbeests are in against the elements. But they can help each Not too long ago, I was in with spam callers. And fortunately for me, is helping me in this fight. See, there are data brokers out there that collect all kinds of data on you, like your name, phone and even your social security number. And then they sell all of this information on the open market, and that's why you can from people that you've never even given your information to. Well, Incogni fights the data brokers. You just give them permission, and then they'll figure which laws apply, and then send each broker a letter with all the correct legal terms requesting that your To see just how bad the problem is, here's the work Incogni Back in September, they Now, they've filed 260, which in total has saved So, to try Incogni and visit incogni.com/veritasium. You can click the link in the description or scan this QR code. And when you do, make sure to get 60% off your annual subscription. So, head over to I wanna thank Incogni for and now back to Strandbeests. But if too much wind is a - So right now you can actually see one of the current fatal They walk when there's wind, but as soon as the wind dies down, the animal basically dies down as well. And so this is one of the challenges that Theo is actually Ah, there it goes again. - [Derek] This is similar to a challenge that life too has faced. See, you can't always rely on the currents of the wind or water to take you where you need to go. So what you want is to stock up on energy and then use it later when you need it. So you need two things, a way to store energy, and muscles that can Now, to collect energy, you've got this sail which and as it moves, it turns this crankshaft, which then pushes this piston here, and it can store pressurized - Just like a bicycle pump. - [Casper] Do you know it can go up to? - It went up to five yesterday. So, quite a pressure. - Wow. - They explode when Well, once I had a bottle, and there was a a piston in there, and it flew just next to my ear through the window on the So that was quite a happening. - Wow. Holy. That's lucky. (chuckling) That's a close call. - [Derek] So, now that you you just need a way to use it. (material rustling) - And if you connect the this jumps out. So you have a sort of muscle. Muscle is nothing but an object which becomes longer So, we have pulling muscles, and the Strandbeest, we - [Derek] This has to crawl slightly, others to walk by and one to wag its tails. One thing you might notice the Strandbeests become more It's as if their process is mimicking life and following a similar And in a way, this is true, because they have to overcome that animals have had to. And as life evolved, it became more and more And in at least one case, it became conscious and self-aware. But right now, there is the beests have to overcome. - 'Cause they're blind and deaf, they don't hear very serious, so imagine that you're blind and deaf, you can only feel around somehow. - So, one of the challenges is that they're walking along the water, and if they accidentally because they're being carried by the wind, then they could end up in the water, and that would be disastrous. So to fix that, Theo has that can actually sense and then hopefully, with a connection of it can then course correct to go away from the water - And of course it's important to know that you're close to the sea, right? That's why I have a a water feeler here. Oh, great, can you hold it here? It goes over the ground about this height, and it sucks in air all the time. And as soon as it comes into the sea, it swallows the water and feels the resistance of the water. (machine clicking) Well, I must regret- (machine rattling) I'm so happy. - [Derek] But those senses are only useful if you can process those inputs, make a decision on what to do, and then issue that to your muscles. Like, when you walk into the water, you should be able to use your So what you need is a nervous system, a sort of brain, if you will. - This is a nerve cell. If I take the top off and if I blow air in here, the air goes in here and comes outta here. So this is a connection. But if I push in this So in fact, which you see only a valve. Open, close, right? Now I go to operate the So if I blow air in here, this closes, and no air comes outta here. If you see this as the output and this, the input, the output is opposite from the input. (upbeat music) In other words, you can just like in a computer. So what you see here is the beginning of the - Do you have an idea how to be able to make that work so the animal walks into the water and is able to turn around? - 20, something like that. - Wow. - Yeah. It's not very complicated. - Yeah. - The only thing is, here on the beach, everything is complicated, because sand creeps into everything and so, yeah, it's not an easy thing, no. (gentle music) - [Derek] Over time, the They lose their color, On the scale of the global this effect is small, but Fortunately though, almost are reused, sold as fossils, or they end up in the graveyard. It's crazy to think that all by the obsession of one guy tinkering away year after year. But why did he do it? During the late 1980s, it was becoming clear that would warm the planet, and therefore sea levels would rise by as much as 2.2 meters by 2100. And about a third of Jansen's lies below the current sea level, so rising sea levels pose So Jansen came up with a solution. He imagined this sort of It would be powered by the wind, and it would kick up sand as it walked. Then this sand would blow to the dunes, heightening them and hence from the rising sea levels. He published this idea in de Volkskrant and called these skeletons Strandbeests. I don't speak Dutch. Strandbeest. Is it the beach beast? Like, what is that? - Yeah, perfect. It's the beach beast. - (laughs) This is such a wacky idea. - I know. - Who comes up with that? - Theo Jansen. - [Derek] What started as turned into much more, to the point where it's So you might ask, is it still really about And the answer is no, not really. It's about a much more human need that most of us have, the desire to be remembered I mean, it's ominous to and be forgotten someday, so a lot of us go to great by having kids donating to get a building named after you, or writing a book, these sorts of ideas. For Jansen, it's making Strandbeests. And when they fulfill their final goal of living independently on the beach, then, he wrote, &quot;I can - The only thing is, I don't There's the problem a bit. But maybe I can hypnotize There were some people who and they help me a lot, so I might be able to infect them with this Strandbeest virus - Because people all over the world are actually using this as well, so, like, the virus is or whatever you want to call it. - [Derek] Thousands of are incorporating his 13 holy numbers into their own designs. From miniature Strandbeests, to a walking bicycle. The genetic code of the beests is spreading all over the world. - He wants everyone to build one of these, but I don't think he's except that he likes And when he makes them go, he has a set of rules and restrictions, but he doesn't place those same I think that's really beautiful. - And who knows, perhaps one day they'll A new species on earth, roaming the world's beaches, kicking up sand all along, and maybe even protecting some coastlines from rising sea levels. (gentle music) (graphic beeping) It's Strandbeest Legs moving like a marching band Strandbeest, strandbeest Voices chant and never cease Strandbeest, strandbeest Marching to the rhythm's beat