I'm going to speak this morning on developing a prayer life that will I was born around Chernobyl which was the the world. I was born very close to it and Chernobyl happened which is one of the things During the birth, the doctor damaged an optical I developed chronic headaches growing up and then At the age of about nine, I started to get was bullying, I thought that's what happens when at me, I was called with names. My name was not do with the deformity of my face. When my family I didn't speak any English. I didn't have this inadequacy that I had reached an all-time struggling to find meaning and purpose in life and was so scared to stand in front of a group of 26 My prayer at the age of 13 till 16 was so that You can kill me because if I kill myself, I'm not going to end up in a good place Praise God! God sometimes doesn't because if God would have answered every But I can tell you what started to happen in my of taking my own life, instead of medicating this with drugs, girls, and alcohol and all kinds of up every single day, Monday through Friday right loud so that my parents don't hear me crying and it was really like a spiritual vomit. Whining, life has no purpose. My life has no meaning. I'm likes me. We came to a new country but I feel like to me? And I did that for 20, 30 minutes every The God I just accused of everything, the God and then I would finish because you Everybody around you get sick but you feel better It was just complaining to God. Pouring my heart's would experience His peace. I would experience His to do that every single day, Monday through Friday God started to supernaturally number one, heal my insecurity that I felt was gone. In school where and actually started to preach in my classrooms Out of all things that I could have been doing, I genuinely believe that the secret to a Christian life and to the As the pastor before me mentioned about David, a lion killer. We kill giants in public but God and in order to do that, one of those lions One of those lions every person needs because those blankets in Right when you set up the alarm clock and you know blankets become like the web of lies. They say, I will give you eternal life and many we have a problem with blankets. And so when you anybody sees the explosion in your ministry, your life and you begin to develop your private life with God. Can somebody say Amen. Write this 1 Samuel chapter 17 verse 34 and 35. David says sheep, and when a lion or a bear came and took struck it, and delivered the lamb from its mouth; beard, and struck and killed it. You can't be killer privately. Many people build their public on private sand, on private lack and void to God and my desire today. I don't have anything Anything I'm not going to share with you something say the same thing you heard million times, one that you heard so that you will be inspired All of us are building a life on Jesus but In Corinthians we see 1 Corinthians chapter this foundation with gold, silver, precious notice two types of materials, flammable and every one of us is building our life on the Every one of us wherever we are building are Can I get an Amen? But the question today but am I building it with material that's categories. First one is gold, silver, precious Gold, silver, precious stones are found that means you don't find it on the concrete, it in the gutter. You have to dig for it. It's found on the ground. It's visible. It's public. stones not only they're found underground but hay and straw are found in big quantities. That's buy a two by four, a two small little tiny rock because stones, precious stones, gold and super big and so which material are you your career. Is it something that is found public. It's always what everybody sees but nothing in the secret. There is nothing, big in the eyes of man but it's super small in silver and precious stones are also extremely hay and straw are destroyed by fire. Gold and Wood, hay and straw are common. Gold, silver building our life today, building our ministry how fast it is and the question is not is how much is what I'm building comes from underground, it else would rather do things to please man, I'm it is rare. It takes me time to build this and divorce of my parents comes, I will get purified give up. Why? Because I didn't build my life only build my life only for Jesus, I built my life by come high water, come offenses, come trouble, It will purify me. Why? Because my life is Many people quit. Many people get out. I can't take this anymore. this usually is the first sign. They've because if you build your life with gold, silver It doesn't make you offended. It doesn't make you are at that place today where you gave up upon your life and you're like man, this is just so difficult. People are just so challenging. The real question to you is this, What material have it was gold and silver, precious stones, you not offended. Pure not burned out. Pure and more You would say, I had a good God experience because Come on somebody. Amen. There were two people in the Old Testament I'll give you just a small contrast, Rahab was a Achan had a promising future. Rahab hid spies, Achan was killed. Rahab saved her family, Achan lineage of Jesus in Matthew chapter one, married became one of the embarrassing stories that we these two people? One was hiding the forbidden Your life tomorrow is determined Everyone in here is hiding something. We either all have secrets. My desire today is that every we have is that we are hiding prayer. We are are secretly like Rahab. Your situation doesn't situation doesn't matter, what matters is your is sliding into people's DM's and flirting online. if your secret is fornication, it does not in the society, your secret not only will make you Today's secret is tomorrow's scandals but today's prayer is tomorrow's power. Today's submission is glory. Today's purity is tomorrow's pleasure sexual addiction. Every person under the and it's good to hide something but it's important live a secret life with God that nobody knows down the road. When a husband and a wife has an soon. Now you don't see the intimacy because any some of you are in your secret place and you don't it and some of us feel the pressure when we're on Instagram, so everybody thinks you're spiritual real fruit of your intimacy is not your Instagram in your ministry. It is the fruit you bear in your life. It's a supernatural, it's carrying a not an Instagram story. It's not a Facebook Come on somebody. Touch your neighbor and say, Respond to your neighbors. Say, it's a secret. Three secret things God wants us to hide. Matthew 6:4 it says that your charitable deed secret will Himself reward you openly. The first is their sacrificial giving. The second secret Matthew chapter 6 verse 6 it says, But you, when shut your door, pray to your Father who is in the will reward you openly. The second secret and I want us to see the third so that you do not appear to men to be fasting, and your Father who sees in secret will reward you you to notice Jesus tells us three secret things are not secrets. These are public things that we things but the secret things Jesus wants us to giving. Why these three secrets? Because we also Prayer cancels pride. Fasting cancels So Jesus is saying you have three main enemies to secretly develop this system and a habit. Secretly begin to fast and while you're doing it men, you're actually defeating three main enemies somebody. The real reason people don't pray is not Prayer is the greatest assault on pride and If you're not praying, it's not because you're think you can do it without God. If you don't you got to live a life of secret prayer. This family but if the only time you're praying is Your walk with God has to be in secret the first secret is prayer. The second secret Now I understand that we live in a generation not from fasting. We eat too much. Some of us have The Bible says some people made their stomach into in the garden. Food is the first Now nothing wrong with food. Food is good and will be plenty of food but you must understand is you have to constantly and regularly subject especially in the Christian circles today that so much that God did everything, you don't need to don't need to lay yourself on the altar. Jesus eat, eat, eat. Be happy, eat. It's all about happy and anything that makes you not happy, because Christianity has never been about If any man is to follow Me, he must deny himself, not about self-discovery, that is new age and that You cannot walk with God very far and very long if fasted two days every week. We say man, I want the the secret of their power is two days every week, exists when you push the plate and fasting is Oh I'm just simply, I skipped breakfast and and eggs so I'm fasting. No, no, no that's is a voluntary abstinence from food for I want you to have a secret and your secret should People say man, how do you keep the fire the fuel for your fire is fasting. Live a life response to a crisis but fasting as a habit, pastor or when your leader sets a day and engage. Don't say well, God didn't speak to through your leader to a self-denial and to Amen. Some of us don't fast because we have We judge the world for going to the bar We run to brownies. We run to muffins. We Food is your fuel, it is not your love. it has a little pleasure. God bless the food love the Lord thy God and thou shall love another which means that food is not for our comfort. We is not food that means we have to choose to live an idol in our life and so that the secret place Can somebody say, Amen. The other place that is sacrificial giving. Yes there's that what's extra. There's tithing. Tithing is we make to honor God. It's not a law where you God I trust you with the rest of my finances but there is one more thing that secretly and sacrifice is when you A pig and a chicken were walking by and The chicken looks at the pig breakfast for him. Could you give him The pig says, Excuse me, if you give eggs, that's So sacrifice is not just giving something that is and please understand, if you want to live it's not only prayer and it's fasting, there will you to grow in the area of financial sacrifice and practiced this so many times and continue to do and changed our spiritual life is to live a life Lord I'm gonna give it to you. I'm not going I just gave a car. Hey guys, I just gave my God. You're doing it in a secret but what's going financially in the secret and He begins to reward give, God will bring a harvest. God says, I see I see your seeds and God will begin to reward it. come in the form of financial breakthrough It will people will look at you and say hashtag lucky. Samson wasn't physically muscular because if it secret of your strength. Come on. You don't come your strength. It's muscles. It's going to the and Delilah is like there is no way. What you so powerful? Samson had a secret and and there are many of us, we're like man, I have secrets and the secret is the secret place. you fast and you sacrificially give when God tells the secret place, you lose your power. You lose anointing and your life starts going in circles connected to your secret place. Your secret place your life and that is prayer and that is fasting Somebody say, 'Secret place.' Somebody say, 'Prayer.' Somebody say, God didn't call us to live busy. He called must be in intimacy. We must have a secret place. of the Lord, fully pleasing Him, being fruitful just be successful in every good work. We're not which means that for us to be successful, the every work we do must flow out of the intimacy. fruitful in every good work. God doesn't seek success is not busyness. God expects fruitfulness may be fruitful in every good work. Somebody I like contrasts especially in the Bible. organizing the feast for the women that when the I got a cell group that I'm running. I'm sorry, I'm kind of busy. She wasn't doing anything bad. Esther was different. Vashti lost her crown. and she went still and the Bible says that but Esther didn't lose her crown. Esther saved her of bride are you, that always skips the secret always prioritize your secret place because if You will impact your generation. You will feel like but I'm gonna waste my time. I have because when you add the secret place as your and your speed no longer becomes what you are begins to continue to do and there will be a Amen. And now I want to get to the why we need to pray. Why we need to press back to the beginning. Genesis. Write this Genesis 1:11 I want you to see when God was making bring forth grass, the herb that yields seed, and kind, whose seed is in itself, on the earth"; and trees; He comes to the earth the Bible says and maybe not proper theologically but technically who God spoke to it and said produce grass, trees and of the plants, they came from the earth. They need Let's go to verse 20. God said, Let waters So technically God looks at the water, the all the living creatures. So because the fish come without the water, they die. Is everybody still Bible doesn't say that God created them. He spoke from the ground; without the ground, they die. fish and the water produces the fish and the they die without it and then I want you to read God comes to Himself and says, Let the way fish comes from sea and Man dies without God. The way fish dies God is still God without man. Ocean is still ocean the trees. That means God doesn't need us, we need Why is that a craving that no religion, no drug, because you didn't come from drugs. You didn't it doesn't matter how many theological degrees have embraced atheistic view that oh I don't need God as much as the fish needs the water and a life of secret place. That's why you need to Because you are not a fish that needs water. are created in the likeness of God and you came God says, 'Let Us make man in Our image and your success in life is contingent on you staying Don't let a professor with more degrees than a You need God. Why? Because the basic It's almost like God was painting us a picture professors, YouTubers, influencers, stars and God is not a crutch and God's like every time your fish needs water, you need God because A few practical things that I want to give. One of them is that we don't go to secret place The Bible says in Exodus 24:12, Then the Lord and be there meaning, I want you to come and place for this reason because they feel like God have to jump start our batteries for 30 minutes get through to the Holy of Holies and it is but think of seeking God's face as a husband because so many of us think of seeking God's and you're just chasing Him around and then God When I am chasing my wife, I'm pursuing my wife, in the neighborhood and I'm chasing after her. me physically and I am pursuing her emotionally. to go to the secret place and your Father who I'm not going to find Him. Excuse me, I'm not He says I've been there since five, for you. I'm not going to prayer to find God is never lost. It's we who are lost. yourself as you coming in and you grinding, prayer as God wants it to be. He's already Can somebody say, Amen. The other part that it area of secret place and that is this, God loves Prayer sometimes is a discipline. Prayer, pressing into Jesus sometimes excuses we have that as I mentioned that in but if all your prayer, if all my prayer is a Imagine if I would portray my relationship It's hard. It's really offensive for her. Now you know it's good and our marriage in but when it got better, when it changed in the there difficult moments, sometimes yes but at the law relationship and this is life-changing. Let me For the Lord takes pleasure. Somebody say, His people. He will beautify the humble The Lord your God in your midst, The Mighty One, He will quiet you with His love, He will rejoice that means that God says, When you come into God gets giggling. God gets happy. God's like over here. I like you. Have you seen parents like a little kid, you're like and they just and stuff because that's the father's love When you come into My presence, I rejoice over you I will quiet you with My love. That's why I'm that if a child falls asleep in the father's How dare you fall asleep in my arms? So if loving on Jesus and on accident, you fall asleep. say, Jesus that was such a sweet presence because is a love that God has for you. It's almost but for His pleasure. He enjoys your company. visit with Him every single day because He takes I remember when my prayer time and my prayer time and this particular time and the season, I wasn't feeling it. I wasn't getting any rhema. will spend an hour and just it felt like and one time, I would come from it and I got the church and I would come home and I would deprived and all of these things and and one time I think it would be better if I just don't maybe more sleep, better attitude plus This thing is not helping me and I voice from the Holy Spirit challenge me and I want you to come here so I can feel yours. I it says for God so loved the world. It doesn't say loved you so much that I let My Son die for you. I only so you can get My presence. Come to prayer Now I'm not building some idolatrous doctrine loves me so much that His presence. He delights good. Next day when I came into my secret place, and I just sat there and maybe five minutes me so strongly and I started to live with this God. Prayer is about God having the pleasure the way that my parents enjoy me when I was a bring yourself to prayer, you're giving God a Don't deprive Jesus from the pleasure from the enjoyment of your presence. Don't you. He loves you. He wants to enjoy He rejoices with singing over His people. and I want to mention the last thing. Genesis Adam and said to him, Where are you? And this. Run to the secret place when you fall To start your journey in a secret place is not motivation but then comes the discouragement. What We're flawed. We sometimes get busy. We sometimes not. We say something we should have not. We get guess what happens with that, guilt comes in. The We don't feel like we're worthy. We don't feel lie, I'm just gonna you know what I'm gonna skip and I'm just gonna try better and then once I get tried to clean a dirty window with a dirty Adam commits sin, eats of the forbidden fruit God comes in the cool of the day. What Adam flunk. I think He watched it in 4k Don't do it. No, no ah, don't take it. And God had these meetings with Adam. We don't but something about the cool of the day, when God would come and Adam knew the Lord showed Adam doesn't show up. Rightly so he feels can't be showing up talking to God like that so He tries to cover his problems. He said, I'm I'm going to go back to God and start is God shows up to the same place He did before How could you do this Adam? Why did you I wait for you but God, I messed up. I know. How can I come to the secret place if I fall that can wash you and that is the blood and to tell you something that if you've fallen, you cannot forgive yourself, you cannot live where are you? Maybe your life got so overwhelming place and you're like, God doesn't want someone I break my own standards. I break my own God's love is greater for you than your love for Come back to the secret place. God didn't into sin. God doesn't want to. God still fell into that thing that you said, I'll Come to the secret place. Adam, where are you? If your sins are like scarlet. God doesn't say I'll wash you as white as clean. If if you can't live with yourself and you say, I only waiting for you when you have everything because the only place where you can be changed, and restored is in the secret place. You will your secret sin to the secret place and your a deliverance will take place, Jesus loves you. The Holy Spirit misses If you're in this auditorium right now and on still looks presentable but on the inside, it's your whole life on the sand. You got so busy and very dry. There's no priority that was given to and you feel like I don't think I can take the ministry, the pressure is way too much. I'm I'm offended at God. You're building with the wrong material. You're to get engaged with sinful activities again. God delivered you from. Start being drawn into testimony in your church and said, God delivered you're a pastor of the church and God is not here to judge you or make you where are you? Come. Come back to My presence. and you want to come back to that. I'm going a little bit radical right there where you Right there where you are standing. This is going to come back. I lost that place because of my sin, right there get on your knee, before the Holy to me the joy of my salvation. Lord, restore that I want to have secrets and my secret, I want it to homosexuality, lesbianism. I want my secret to be secret to be giving. I want my secret to be the Dear Holy Spirit, I ask you renew, quicken back to life that minister who has gotten so successful but also super Martha with much serving but one thing is needed of the secret. Bring us back to the place where we find our source in You. Jesus, our ministry businesses because we're not called to be and our fruit comes from intimacy with time in Your word. Help us to guard that with fasting. Help us to not make excuses about lack of Jesus, I pray for those right now that that they have committed over and over God, may your blood wash them right now and May the innocence come back. May the purity come May the motivation come back. May Resurrect them Lord, renew them, resuscitate life right now, that they will not just denying its power but that they will live from Lord as we're on our knees, we recommit to fasting. We recommit ourselves to sacrifice. by the virtue of our presence. Bring ourselves express our love but so yYu can receive us we are not special but You call us an apple of Son. So when we come into Your presence, we know You'll find pleasure in us Lord. Forgive us for depriving You of that joy. We choose to Amen. You may rise. 'Host the Holy Ghost' A I want to invite you into a journey of knowing you will be able to have an encounter I believe introduced me to the Holy Spirit and I believe God with the Holy Spirit, cultivate the fruit of the more about the Holy Spirit. Discern the difference manifestations. Learn about tongues and so much ministry, in business, stay home mom or a student, Holy Spirit by reading this book. As all of my hardcover, audio version. There's a Russian it on my website as a free PDF. Thank you so much lives being impacted as they read, 'Host the Holy make sure that you leave a review on Goodreads