Translator: Kate Schutt I know you are weary I know you are scared There's nothing I won't do for you There's nothing I won't bear The CT scan showed a tumor on my mom's abdomen. The doctor wanted to operate immediately and as soon as possible after that, She was 67 years old. I was headed to an extended gig My two guitars and duffel bags sat on the floor of my New York apartment. I unpacked, repacked, and Was on the next train home When she found out She had a stomach full of cancer It was the last day It hit us like a hammer Sometimes in life, you have a choice And sometimes none at all So I moved into my childhood room And I put down my guitar And I didn't pick it up again I became my mom's primary caregiver, and getting her through each day the never-ending meetings with doctors, the labyrinth of medical not to mention her day-to-day care No, there'd be no more writing songs. But I kept notes of the songs should I ever get back to music or somehow find my way My mom felt guilty for getting cancer. She felt as though she was a burden And no matter how many times it wasn't her fault, it was like the words never sank in. Finally, eventually, and I got a few weeks to myself. I pulled out my notes and that first song you heard, was yet another attempt to tell her that all I wanted to do I got home, I played that song it was like the music and the lyrics went straight to her heart. We never had to have that conversation Let's do loss better. Loss is a thread It's everywhere! How many of you have lost a beloved pet? Lost a job, lost a close friendship or two, maybe have a person in your life die, or know someone who's been It's evident to live is to lose. There's no escaping loss, Let's face it. We do loss pretty badly. We don't know what to do and say We just want to get through it It's uncomfortable. And as soon as our life the crisis is over, we don't think about loss at all. I mean, why would we? What are the consequences Among other things, like they're underwater. That's how I felt Especially as her illness wore on, it was like I was in some strange vacuum. People close to me going MIA, a lot of silence, giving me space. Space? I'm going through the hardest thing and you're giving me space? I literally lost count who came up to me and said, &quot;I really wanted to be in touch, I know you've been having but I didn't know what to say, I didn't want to bring it up Bring it up? It was up. Make it worse? There's no way you could have. Listen, I, too, used to act the same way. Back before my mom got cancer, when someone I knew I wished I did. I wanted to be helpful, but every impulse I had I mean, should I send a text or an email? What about Facebook? Facebook? Maybe I'll screw up my courage And say what? My thoughts and prayers are with you? I don't pray, and at this point that phrase is tired. What about doing something for someone? Sure, I'd mouth that &quot;Let me know what I can do to help,&quot; full well knowing they'd It was just another thing And who was I? Was I even close enough to them, a good enough friend to be involved No, I'd say nothing, convincing myself that at least then, and then I'd let myself maybe even on purpose, to avoid And it would all fade away until the next loss came around. Even in the middle of my mom's illness, when I was quarter-backing driving her to the hospital sitting with her while the clear plastic bag dripped toxic liquid and I knew everything there was to know about the state of her heart and the state of her health - even I sometimes didn't know what to do That's where being able I'm scared and you're brave I'm free and you're caught We're fighting a battle We've already lost We are living every minute Of your dying days In the last days of my mom's life, a family friend brought over dinner. She didn't ask if she could. She just showed up, put two brown paper bags turned around and walked out. I bet this felt risky for her to do. She couldn't be sure what we liked to eat, were we or if there'd be enough food to go around. Let me tell you right now. That simple gift of showing up was a godsend. It meant I didn't have to think My mom was actively dying. The hospice nurse said We were glued to her bedside. My dad, my brothers and their families, I was giving her morphine We were wiping her forehead It meant that we could go downstairs and sit down together and have a meal. I'll never forget it; And relief is all that a grieving person wants in this world; it helps make the unbearable bearable. I learned a lot from actions like these. There are simple things you can do things that'll make them because it's not about you It's about them I've got three simple things things that'll make them feel loved. These are the things and through the process of losing my mom, I figured out how to do them. And now, whenever anyone around me I pick one of these They're reliable and they work. So number one, do send a text or an email or call, and say simply this: &quot;This must be so difficult for you, I'm sending you my love. You don't need to say Just be honest. Loss sucks and it's Speak to that. And be sure to tell them It's a busy and strange time for them. Let them off the hook. Number two. Just go and do a chore or an errand Don't ask their permission, Take the dogs for a walk, clean the kitchen floor, take the kids out for ice cream. Just one act that gives them or a break from their busy time. I can imagine you're thinking, &quot;But I live so far away, You can figure it out. You're more resourceful than you know. Call a dog walking service, call and get the dry-cleaning delivered. Find someone who does live nearby and have them take the You can figure it out. And number three, make or buy a big mac and cheese casserole (Laughter) They can eat it right then, Listen, we've all got to eat, even those of us wracked by grief. And if you don't live nearby, Call and get pizza delivered. I'm pretty sure there's within striking distance (Laughter) &quot;Oh, my god! Remember when you dropped I hated you when you did that,&quot; (Laughter) I even dropped off the casserole Listen, it's been three years and at the end of her life, They were beautiful. They covered practically But one of the things was that chicken noodle soup that came out of those brown paper bags. Find the courage to show up It might feel awkward Risk getting it wrong. Don't dwell on the voices just pick one of these Don't be silent. Don't be absent from their lives. Stop thinking about it, just act. Your grieving friend needs you to. No, you can't fix you can't make it you can't bring back but you can show up for them in a real way Loss is all around us, and now you know three You don't have to fight What's it gonna take Believe me, yeah When your world's been blown apart I got your back, I got your heart You don't have to fight We all know someone who's going through Go say something to them. Go do something for them. Maybe even something as intrusive as dropping off a casserole. (Applause)