Vanessa Prothe: Welcome to this live English lesson YouTube channel. I'm so excited to celebrate with around the world. Thank you so much for joining to speak American English, practice your speaking so that you can go out and speak in the real world way that you want to. So thank you so much for Today, we are going to be talking about your that everyone here has in common. All of you are know very little in English, and then learn more, frustrated because we're not doing as well as learn more and more. So I thought today, we could As you can see, there are 4 million almost a thousand people who are joining the people who are on the same journey as you, I and also by each other. Today I will be asking down, the question and the answer in the chat box. writing as well, kind of old school classroom have a free PDF for today's lesson. This is a free all of the ideas. And you can answer my challenge There's a link in the description where you it will be useful to you, but please take notes And I would love to say hello to those of you 00:02:30] Spain. Welcome. Welcome. Thanks for wonderful. Danielle from Italy, thanks for joining France, Iraq, Peru, Columbia, Argentina, Pakistan. So, no matter what your background is, you we are going to talk about it today. If you enjoy I'd like to invite you to join me in my course, motivated with thousands of other English learners a $60 special discount for this course, but we I just want to thank you for joining me today. that when someone finds out that you are Take a look at this question. I have my clipboard I would like to know. I'm not sure. Maybe have you been learning English? Let me know if How long have you been learning English? This would like to know for you, what is true for you? four years, five, six years.&quot; Ryan says, can you put this in a full sentence? There's is pretty complex, it is the present 10 times. But the little trick here is, you verb tense. So let's do that. Let me use one of been learning English for three years, so let's and I challenge you to try to write your English, and here we have a special So, we added a lovely word four, and that is to talk about the duration. How long have you been I have been learning English for three years. sentences and see how you're doing. Hasha says, too.&quot; Wonderful. Maria says, &quot;I've been Daz says, &quot;I've been learning English you so much for being here with me. This is a Now I see that Cheyenne has used this in a contraction. &quot;I've been learning English for three understand fast English because native speakers your English faster and more natural. We can for three years. So we're going to use this four, three years. So during that whole three Is there another way that we can answer this So, let's see, we have a great with 2019. Okay. So when we want to put a date, And that is, I'll write this out here for you. maybe something dramatic happened. Maybe &quot;I'll be fine. I can probably just find someone I can say hi and thanks.&quot; And then you get to New working well. I need to change something.&quot; Learning English, and then anyone guess what that next word needs Let's say 2019, when I visited New York City and Yes. You got it. Paul said since. Mark said since. when we use since, we're talking about a starting but because of that dramatic trip to New York I'm going to learn English. been learning English since 2019. Let's take a told me how long you've been learning English You could use a date or you could use something elementary. Did I spell that right? I did not. to speak and write at the same time. So we could you didn't learn English, but until today, you have been learning English. school. What was that starting point for your sentences here so that I can say them Alpert says, &quot;I've been learning English a starting point where we're introduced to Anish says, &quot;I've been learning English Oh, beautiful way to combine both of these. six years, and then since elementary school. Rashme says, &quot;I've been learning English since learning both English and Japanese now. And verb tense. Beautiful, beautiful. Well, and I'd like to give you some more feedback before &quot;I've been learning English since last year.&quot; I've been learning English since last year. Yamna 2020.&quot; Great. And just to let you know, with these 2020, no problem. Or you can say 2020. This is Rajan says ... Oh, I'm sorry, your comment passed &quot;I've been studying English for a couple years.&quot; can add. And that's talking about the duration Gian Lucas says, &quot;I've been learning English since unless you're 11 years old, you've had a lifetime Bonnie says, &quot;I've been learning English since using the past tense here. So you said I've been moved to New York. So this is something that to use the correct verb tense at the end of All right. Let me read a couple more of these, altogether, everyone around the world, all 2000 of since the pandemic started.&quot; So here you're to use this. And I imagine you're not alone. since the pandemic started, trying to find a All right, before we go on to my second common about our English learning journey, I'd like to the world. I'd like you to warm up your English reading your sentences, you've been writing your let's go to the next level and say them out loud. to write this in the chat box. with the contraction, let's practice the about this, I found Vanessa's channel. I Let's say this sentence altogether. Are you ready? channel. So this was the starting point. Maybe it was last month, but this was the starting point. channel. I hope that's been helpful to you. question that you will most likely be asked, learning English. I thought because there's more people will also watch the replay this channel, let's help each other with this Learn English? So this is not a general what has helped you to learn English? Let's imagine here that David and Veronica around the world, they're talking and How do you learn English? What has worked for some tips or advice. I'd like to know some of beautiful sentence using some advanced grammar and people have to say here. Amin says by hitting the books. Great expression. watching YouTube videos. Excellent. Excellent. Lovely. Okay, so let's take Amin's sentence to podcasts, and then we're going to add the podcasts? Hmm. Maybe to learn new vocabulary, just to have a fun time, and it happens to be in improve my listening skills, for example. If you are an intermediate English and you'd like to challenge yourself a bit, I an excellent podcast about tons of different minutes. They have longer episodes that are an but they also stick to the subject. So it's specific subject that you might be interested in. I listen to podcasts to improve my listening this, I'd like you to reform your answers present simple verb tense, I listen, it's This is simply I listen. It's a habit, it's podcasts, you could say, because I want to improve But if you want to keep it short and simple, just say, to improve my listening skills. the reason, to improve my listening skills. couple other of your sentences, and we'll try present simple, and then a reason Dennis says, &quot;I joined The Fearless Lovely. Well, I'll tell you more about The Santosh says, &quot;I learn English by watching movies, here we're using this simple verb tense, I learn, to improve my daily English vocabulary. Great. generally depending on the TV show or the learn real English. I watch movies or just to have a good time. Let's take All right. I watch YouTube videos to expand I watch YouTube videos. Why? What's the reason? the ... we call that the infinitive. If you been throwing around a lot of grammar words and practical way to use it, to improve my English Veronica ask, &quot;Could you repeat the podcast that is called Stuff You Should Know. I'll write that There's plenty of others as well, but Let's take a look at Natsennit says, &quot;I listen them or you watch them. I enjoy YouTube videos sentence. I watch YouTube videos to get used means to feel more comfortable with something. not just stuff from a textbook, I need to get used how people really speak so that when you you're not shocked to be able to do this. Lovely. American slang.&quot; Beautiful grammar. I love it. I slang. Lovely. All right. Before we go to our say one sentence altogether. No matter where use those pronunciation speaking muscles, and I'm to learn real English. Okay. I imagine this right now on YouTube. I imagine you are probably So, let's say the sentence I watch YouTube videos to learn real English. I Nalitta was talking with Amad, two and Nalitta says, &quot;Hey, how do you learn English? He might say, &quot;Oh, I watch YouTube videos.&quot; And That seems like it takes a lot of time.&quot; to learn real English. I decided not to study watched YouTube to learn real English. Lovely. I try to read some English textbooks to understand more academic English, or maybe you need to, or Well, you might say, I try to read, try here is I read some English textbooks, maybe medical books. I read some English books to ... Why? to understand how Senate structure is formed. And an excellent way to boost your vocabulary. I think love to read, I have many videos on my channel So if you would like any of almost all of my videos, there is a children's book recommendations, beginner, books about life in the US, or American books, I hope that will be just helping you to expand When you immerse yourself, that's when you All right, let's go on to our practice for this part is, I'd like you to take a deep are you ready? Let's take a deep breath, will help you to speak out loud during this part. Imagine something that makes you feel excited or let's do it together. Are you ready? Let's Okay. Let's imagine this scene. You are visiting decide to turn into Central Park. It's so green you see someone throwing a frisbee. I love You see someone throwing a frisbee, and you look a little familiar, and then And I turn to you and I say ... So this I'm going to be asking you a question and then speak out loud and answer. After we go through so that you can just have an idea about what So I'm throwing the frisbee and you say, &quot;Vanessa, yeah, I'm Vanessa. What's your name?&quot; you can say, &quot;Hi, I'm Mark or hi, I'm Adith. Hi, can write it in the chat box as well. Are you It's nice to meet you. Where are you from?&quot; and write it in the chat box. &quot;It's so Oh, thank you so much for learning English with This is your chance. So you can use, I've been I've been learning English for a to use this sentence structure. &quot;Thanks so much for learning English with I see here some great sentences. So English since I moved to New York, about Venus says, &quot;I've been learning English since &quot;I've been learning English since 2016.&quot; &quot;Lovely. time in New York. And I'm curious, how do This is your chance to answer the &quot;Let me know. What's your secret. Your English I would love to know. For me, even this is something that I'm always curious I'm also a lifelong French learner. So but also as an English teacher, I always want recommend that to other people, and just So, I want to know, how do you learn English? What It's your chance to say that out loud and &quot;I learn English by practicing it every day to &quot;I think and talk in English to improve my maybe to yourself to improve your English. This write this out in the chat box here so that others in English to improve, let's say to grow, I know a lot of you do this when you &quot;What do I need to do at work today?&quot; Well, first through my papers. And after that, I probably blah, blah. You talk about your day to yourself growing your confidence, especially if right now someone else. If you ran into me in Central Park and didn't speak with me. Well, this is a great no one else is listening and there's no pressure. So I said, &quot;I'm curious, how do you And you said, Zora says, &quot;I watch YouTube And I say, &quot;Wow, you are really dedicated to to me and keep up the great work with Congratulations. First of all, you had Now take a deep breath. We're going to do to go through it. I'm not going to give any and ask you the questions in our conversation that was a practice. This is the real deal. Vanessa, is that you?&quot; And I say, &quot;Hi. Oh, it's so nice to meet you. Where are you from? Thanks so much for learning English with Wow, that's great. I hope you Now, I'm curious. How do you learn Wow. You are really dedicated to improving your Keep up the great work with English, and I'll see away from that conversation and go, &quot;I did it.&quot; today, grow your skills a little bit and to gain is when you have more confidence, it doesn't the perfect words to use. When you have the a little bit more than you had at the to take those opportunities to speak, which will So, I hope that this has helped you. you feel very nervous, this is very normal. I makes you feel comfortable. Maybe that's a teacher a coworker, maybe you have an American coworker do you want to get some coffee after work today?&quot; &quot;Do you want to go get a drink after chatting together. This is kind of low you're not trying to book an important event for Speak with someone who you feel comfortable with in your car, like I mentioned before, but when you it can help you to grow your confidence. If speaking with right now, that's the question. who I can feel comfortable speaking with? Well, except for another English learner. So when they understand exactly how each other are my heart is racing. Okay. Let's just take a &quot;Oh, I'm sorry, I said the wrong word too.&quot; &quot;Oh, When you speak with someone else who's learning help each other. And that is something that my Club English course do, motivated English learners they practice English, but most importantly, they together. So, if you don't have anyone who you I recommend joining the course and learning confidently, express yourself, and I think in the Sometimes when you're an intermediate English I've just been learning the same things. something needs to change. If you feel like, I kind of a sign that something needs to change. listening to podcasts, watching movies, watching get to that point. But now if it's plateaued or you get to the next level. And usually that means you feel a little bit nervous, some risk. And So, I recommend if you don't have someone to speak not learn classroom English, you will learn real speakers, and you'll learn real vocabulary so that I know there are often lists that say, &quot;Learn Do you think this is practical? Absolutely type of information, but in The Fearless only the most important words that will help you You'll also learn real phrasal verbs so that If you have been learning English you know that phrasal verbs are not just They are everywhere. So, this will be an important And you will also learn real American English and clearly, this doesn't mean that you will part of who you are. It shows people, &quot;Hey, that But we will help you to be able to speak clearly, I know when you're speaking and you try to say &quot;Sorry, I didn't understand. What That can be really frustrating because at least I feel like I know what I was trying Am I not saying it right? And you So when your pronunciation great, you can grow that confidence because and they won't be constantly asking, &quot;What'd a good time talking with you. That makes them I was just saying that in The Fearless Fluency together and really feel connected to other people Facebook group, and each Sunday I give a So you are able to connect with me, And it's a good chance to get feedback from each week, you can also contact me through email. and I think that this special piece of the when you join The Fearless Fluency Club, you enjoy learners, and you can start to speak together. next level, feel free to join me in The Fearless to get a $60 discount. This is going to help you refund. No questions asked. So if you join the actually isn't for me.&quot; Just send me an email, for me.&quot; I'll say, &quot;Okay, no problem. You have And I hope that it will provide a low risk I have no doubt, I am fully confident that express yourself and finally feel like you are use your English that you love and that you can So there's a link in the description where you Yes. Thank you so much for writing this out in Before we go today, I would like to thank you 4 million subscribers. How wonderful with this we go, if you have any questions for me, we have this is your chance. Yafi asked, &quot;Would you this discount is like a scholarship. This &quot;I'm going to give up this $60 and say, I hope it will be a low risk, wonderful Mauricio has a question. Thank you, Mauricio for using ... there is a super chat feature where And ask me a question and it shows up nice and videos and then I try to write subtitles for them This is a fabulous idea if you are writing the called dictation. You're listening to something And the best way to do a dictation real English, not something that is just from So maybe that's YouTube videos, maybe and you're writing down what they say, and there your work. So for all of my YouTube videos, there is subtitles that the creator, so for me, I It's not just AI. This is something that I have So, after you write down the subtitles, I thought they said this, but really they said You were using those resources in a great way. one other question here. Leander says, &quot;Thank you're the only person I can understand 90%.&quot; Oh, Awesome. And your kind comments. English on YouTube, I was very surprised because you're the only American I can understand. can understand.&quot; I was just so surprised, and When you can understand you're growing your said, but I was surprised because I thought, can also understand, this is great.&quot; So, I'm you can understand mostly what I'm saying. That's Nana says, &quot;I'm getting tired could you give me some motivation I encourage you to find a new way, it seems like Maybe you're a big reader. Find a new book that Fearless Fluency Club, and being hugged warmly by you can do it. Yeah. Meet with me on Saturday, Find a new way to use English. This is going to biologically to our brains. It produces some absolutely decide you need to turn a page and Anna Paula, thank you so much for your kind very much for helping me learn English. I'm I would love to visit Brazil someday. I've heard would need to spend like three months visiting Vishvi says, &quot;Could you explain a little and how it works?&quot; Yes. So, the link in the and there are three levels, beginner, little question to help you find the right level. is no hassle, you try the course and you think, Cool. Send me an email. I can help And you will have five months worth of I recommend studying one per month, and each So I have a conversation with a native English and from that conversation, there is a phrasal verbs pronunciation lesson, and you will there's the Facebook group for all of this, but phrasal verbs, and all of those pronunciation all coming from real English. And that's my how real people will speak so that when you So, this is something that you can take into module where you'll meet another native English minutes about another topic. And you'll learn all pronunciation, there's worksheets and exercises, information in the real world and practice it Sylvia, thank you so much Alberto, thank you so much for joining it's nice to see you live.&quot; Thank you so much for Amin says, &quot;Can we contact you via email in the When you join my English course, you can email answer the homework questions and send them to me. sentences. You can record your voice and I'll give related to the course material. So when you study module three about weddings, and I was trying Here's a sentence. Did I say it correctly?&quot; And That is, I think, one of the biggest benefits you can learn so much on YouTube, but personal feedback, and be guided through the then you learn that thing and then you the material in a way that will help you to Novaya says, &quot;I have a simple question. How are I felt quite nervous at the beginning three years since, to use a lovely word, since So I'm a little bit out of practice, but I hope Hoziah says, &quot;Are there Zoom classes? How can I Zoom calls, Google Hangouts, WhatsApp calls, organized. And part of the mindset behind this Alcoholics Anonymous for people who are addicted and the organization can help them to, we call addiction and start to live a healthy life again. help an addict. Well, you are not addicts. Maybe that an English learner can help another English I think, over a 100 years, but hundreds gone through this organization, and they because other people who were addicted have bonded their difficulties and supported each other. people in the organization. And that's that helps a lot of people who join the course &quot;What am I going to do now? I don't feel And so, when they join this course other English learners around the you're in a community and you're not alone. out of those feelings of maybe being lost or alone because you are connected with other people. inspired by that model, and I hope it will help who do Zoom calls? Yes. In our Facebook group, you get access to the Facebook group and there also meet one on one. So this is a great way to able to have more speaking time and connect. the world, traveled from Brazil to Italy and met connect with someone else and keep each Fatim says, &quot;Are we going to get a vocabulary what? Next week I have a very special video for film because it's not right here in my studio, Yeah, maybe it's especially tricky in some ways to you. I'll just leave it as a mystery. some phrasal verbs and some practical daily Well, before we go today, I would like everyone to say this sentence with me out loud. We and I hope it will be helpful I watch Vanessa's YouTube lessons to So a little brainwashing here. but it's also using this, the information and I would like you to say this sentence out loud my lessons, I like to end of my live lessons. So course at the end of the lesson, I like to have can help us to feel connected, but Are you ready? Let's say this together. I watch each week. I watch Vanessa's YouTube I hope this is true for you, you'll join me again lesson here on my YouTube channel. Don't forget lesson. There is a link in the description and you it down to your pillow while you sleep. You can you so that you don't feel alone in your English time and stay motivated. So you can download this Fearless Fluency Club and get $60 off. So the link you $60 off. This is like just in this one place. like to get $60 off. If you want to pay the full why. You can click on that link and get $60 off Fluency Club. I would love to continue to help you you so much for learning English with me, and I here on my YouTube channel. Bye everyone. Bye Thanks so much for joining me. Bye Ruth. Thanks