This shop is open from 7:30 to 16:30. The crispy pork is a very famous item at this restaurant. The pork is crunchy, but it's also juicy. Mainly the restaurant serves the pork with rice noodle soup. But some people order the pork as an individual order. In the menu there are some dishes with pork offal. If you are not familiar with it, you can select without the offal. The rice noodle soup is main item in this restaurant. The shape of the rice noodle is flat and wide. It is like macaroni. The broth is specialized with pork, chicken, soy sauce etc. But it doesn't have strong taste. It's very mild and clean taste. As an accent, you can taste the peppered flavor. It makes you more taste the natural flavors of the pork meat. In the soup the pork skin absorbs the soup and it become wet, not crispy anymore, but it gets you different texture of the pork. The rice noodle is soft and tender. It doesn't have strong taste much by itself, but it's good combination with the peppery soup and the toppings. This is located in a Bangkok alley like hidden restaurant. They serve mainly fish ball noodle soup. The restaurant is open from 10:00 to 17:00. The staffs are very friendly. The noodle soup has enriched broth. Local people come to visit this restaurant well. And inside the restaurant you can find many autographs of celebrities. So many people love this meal of this restaurant. The fish ball is fresh and enriched with umami. Shrimp ball is also another popular item. You can customize the dish mainly with adding some toppings. Like poached eggs, cheese, etc. You can also choose the size of the noodles, like thick or thin noodle, and egg or fish noodle., This is the special set from the menu. In this pod, there are 2 kinds of noodles: Normal and fish. The fish noodle tastes well as fish meat. This shop is devoted to the dessert know as Khanom Bueang, which is old Thai sweet and looks like crispy pancake or crepe. This shop is open from 18:30 to 23:30. We recommend you to come before the opening if possible. Many people including local people come to buy this pancake right after the opening. Sometimes people need to wait for more than 1 hour. Advanced order might be good idea to avoid the long wait. On the pancake, sweet coconut cream is pasted. And sweet or salty topping is on the pancake. Orange is sweet and brown is salty topping. Shredded coconut is also added on the pancake. The pancake base is very thin, but perfectly cooked. The shop is not nearby the public transportation. You might use taxi or relative transportation to come. The shop is located in residence area. Please don't forget to secure the transportation when you get back. It might be difficult to pick a taxi on the road at night. These pancakes are crispy. The combination of coconut cream, sweet egg floss and coconut slices is perfect. The salty filing is different from the sweet one. It is nice with sweetness and saltiness. It would be good as small snack, not only dessert. If you can, please eat right after you buy. This restaurant serves a wide range of Sea food dishes. You can choose ingredients to cook for your dish. The fish porridge has good accent with white sesame. This fish meat is the giant fish you saw in front of the restaurant. The taste of the fish is mild and the fish is very tender. The grilled squid is also succulent. The attached sauces are chill-based (right) and sour-based with nuts (left). At this time unfortunately the crab porridge was sold out. We wanted to order the crab porridge, because it's signature dish at this restaurant. If you have a chance, please try it. This is one of the oldest noodle restaurant in this area. Michelin has awarded this restaurant for 4 years consecutively. Inside the restaurant, it's clean and well air-conditioned. The fish meatball is fresh and tasty. The fish balls are made the traditional way. So it's MSG-free fish ball. Many people including children will be able to enjoy the fish meatball. I ordered Tomyum Soup with fish noodle. Tomyum Soup is sweet and sour with a little bit spicy. The meatball is made by fish. You can taste the fish well from the meatball. The noodle is also made with fish. But the taste is not so strong (fishy). It's thick and perfectly fit to the soup and meatball. So please try to eat even though you are not familiar with fish noodle. The fried fish skin is well-fried, so it's crunchy. It makes you eat a lot with a little bit saltiness. This restaurant has been renewed in last 2-3 years. The capacity is relatively large. The food menu is diverse. From adult to children, you can enjoy the dishes. The taste of curry is relatively strong, but it's perfectly matched with the crab. The spicy sour soup and vegetables is tasty. The prawn makes the soup more flavors. This dish has a rich, creamy salted egg yolk and onion. The sea bass is well-fried and the meat of the bass has thickness. This restaurant has run with 80-year-old family recipe. The recipe has been passed down the generations. From Saranrom Palace, it takes only 10 minutes to walk. This is the original shop for sticky rice with ripe mangoes. The cooking process is meticulous and traditional. You can select the sweetness of the mango. Even local people love this mango sticky rice. You can select how the mango is ripped. Coconut milk is on the top of the sticky rice. The coconut milk is not too sweet, which is perfectly fitted to the sticky rice. Many people admit this is the best desert in Bangkok. The restaurant is very clean and no-fuss. The restaurant have awarded a lot including Michelin. The opening time is between 8:30 and 15:30. Please don't forget not to come for dinner. The price of dishes are a little bit expensive. But the volume of each dish is large. So if you share the dishes, the cost is not so expensive per one person. You can glimpse the chefs as they cook because of semi-open kitchen. The fried rice has a lot of crabs with intensely flavored. The volume of this dish has a lot. If you share the dish, it would be good idea to enjoy the meal. The unique crab omelet is very popular. The size is very large. You might need to share this omelet, too. It has a lot of crab meat inside the omelet. This is like hidden restaurant for spicy lovers. This restaurant serves local cuisine, including Jungle cuisine. From the outside, you can feel the "Jungle" atmosphere of this restaurant. This restaurant serves some unusual ingredients like wild boar, crocodile, ostrich, etc. You can find these some items in the menu. There are some dishes not in the English menu. If you have something special to eat, you check the restaurant before you come. and you have to ask the staffs about the availability with showing photo or something. The Jungle curry soup is the signature dish in the restaurant. It is different from the standard Thai curry. It has more seasonal ingredients like fingerroot, turkey berry and countless others. But you have to watch out the spicy ingredients like red chili. Some herbs and spices are used well as seasoning. Some spices make the catfish tasty and good matched to the curry flavor. The frog is fried and flavored well. This restaurant serves mainly steamed crabs and prawns on glass noodle. It is very popular, but the seats are limited. Sometimes you might have to wait for 1 or 2 hours. But it's worth trying these dishes. If possible, you have to come earlier for dinner like 16:00-17:00. The mussels has no bitter taste because it's very fresh. The prawns are cooked well with steamed. Please do not forget to stir the noodle to soak up the tasty juice. There is in the bottom of the plate. You can taste the juice with grass noodle, too. In the juice there is a lot of coriander. If you are not familiar with it, please adjust how you dip in the juice. The crabs has a lot of meat and it's very fluffy. "To go" might be your alternative option to avoid long-waiting.