a lot of viewers asked me to take a look at about cholesterol&quot; and it's by Dr Stan Ekberg, I look. if you're a regular viewer you're probably we don't do ad hominems, we don't go after nothing like that. we only care about one thing: right? let's get into it. when people are changing they're losing weight, they're feeling better, yeah I hear this question a lot, people find media and they lose some weight, they feel it's different for different diets, with low with low carb it might be that the cholesterol it's possible to eat low carb diets without cholesterol on a low carb diet, it just depends so hopefully he's going to cover all that, I don't we have bought into the idea, without any good yeah I'm not a huge fan of these nicknames either, I get how this started, I get why people started and there are better ways to explain this topic all that. what I want to help you with today is the true factors and what's really going on. yep scientific information so they can make educated really want to get away from is the idea that if 200, then you get this automatic prescription that that should be some magical number that now prescribe a Statin just because cholesterol if you have a 30 year old patient without other and their LDL cholesterol just crossed that just went up to 105, do you automatically there's lots of other things you talk about the guidelines are explicit on this, a Statin cholesterol is over 100 milligrams per deciliter, other things you might try, it's only at 190 so almost twice that threshold, that a Statin very high level you start to suspect a genetic calcium score is elevated or if they've already these are people at higher risk so a Statin is automatically just because someone crosses that out statins automatically for everyone who's LDL deciliter without looking at anything else, yeah I don't know anybody who does that but if there not how it's supposed to be done, I agree. so far since it seems like he's going to go into statins mine are real simple, I've never made a dime don't have any affiliation with big Pharma or on the channel, we just share the best money off of it or not. do statin drugs but we're going to talk about whether that statins lower serum cholesterol levels, that's not beyond just whether they lower cholesterol, which cholesterol do they lower, is that something cholesterol and also the effect on lipoproteins sounds like it's going to go into all that, does it actually help lower heart disease? and um well that's just unfamiliarity with the of placebo-controlled double-blind randomized with thousands and thousands and thousands of of heart disease. not just lowering cholesterol and duration of treatment, the longer we keep a so we could talk about specific numbers, those are very frequent questions and and we have videos going over all that in of heart disease is unequivocal, just overwhelming evidence. and again, risk actually means lower versus placebo, it's not some theoretical thing so we're going to keep moving, I think this is going through some bullet points so we'll let him he's getting these ideas from, the actual evidence opposite, that higher cholesterol actually is epidemiologically there is that Association, so Asked question around cholesterol and we going over all the evidence and explaining it there are several chronic diseases like cancer, Frailty, all of those diseases often lower they take up a lot of cholesterol from the and as a result, in people with cancer you often these serious diseases, often frail in general, go on to die more and they have lower cholesterol in observational studies. but that has nothing to is a very common confusion between Association and not by people getting cancer but by taking a or people who have it genetically lower, mortality and lower cholesterol, in lower risk of death when cholesterol is lowered. not a day goes by that I don't get this question at first glance if you just hear about those going in the opposite direction? right? but if and when we look at the strongest experimental it all makes sense, and it's pretty clear, if you or a chronic disease like that that lowers but if you have it lower because you made some because you had it higher and you had indication risk of death, if anything, is reduced. all right, I don't want to bog this down too much but when he he's basing this on, what evidence he's actually studies. does it improve longevity? does it evidence to that either. yeah we just covered that have the statistical power to pick up of death and the genetics confirms that, people more and live shorter lives. so again, we'll see to it. what you do get for sure are side effects don't get them for sure, some people get them or any medical intervention, what we have to what they mean, how to get around them and what so that people can make an informed decision. and what the potential risks are. that's what all that information. so why then is there a evidence they're looking for is does it lower assumption that cholesterol causes heart disease and that's a false assumption. yeah this is are prescribed because they lower events, heart the need for revascularization procedures, what not just because they lower cholesterol. in and were never approved, never made it to Market actual events. for example, some drugs called CETP effects elsewhere and so their net effect, their so they're not used, even though they can lower run these massive clinical trials with thousands the actual cardiovascular events. we have these for many drugs that are not statins, and some amount of evidence going back 30 plus years. these little squares, are different randomized that the lower the LDL cholesterol is pushed by disease events like heart attacks. so all these in different countries using different classes of times over the span of two or three decades, an informed decision we have to be familiar with people often ask about funding because a lot of Industries, so viewers ask all the time, can we it's not for corporations and it's not for look for confirmation. reproducibility. there are scientists from different institutions, different consistently showing that statins lower risk of there exists trials not funded by Pharma showing confidence goes up some more. you can also same enzyme targeted by statins, it's an enzyme in reductase. statins inhibit that enzyme and some that are defective, that are less efficient, so those people and they have less heart disease. right? that's independent confirmation. so a fascinating realization to emerge from those of the reduction of heart disease risk from much larger than the benefit of taking by like two or three-fold, and that makes total you're protected from birth, for your entire lowering someone's cholesterol at middle age after the risk factor. so when we familiarize ourselves that the Statin trials, if anything, underestimate control. a Statin trial lasts for four or five it's not the ceiling of what's possible in terms does that mean we should be passing out drinking water? of course not. most people but some people have very high cholesterol heart disease later in life. so that's where fantastic but it's not a one size fits-all. another Super common question about relative risk that in detail, but basically let's say I have years and four of them have a heart attack, and them a Statin and two people have a heart attack. that's relative risk reduction, but I only avoided that's absolute risk reduction. so why does percent? well, because there were only four heart that was the maximum absolute risk reduction five years. if you follow them for life, to get a lot more heart attacks in a western then that's a lot more heart attacks you the entire population of a country, then it's attacks that you potentially avoid. and of course intervention. so this is a really simple concept people will look at a five-year trial and say &quot;oh three is a small number so this is all a scam&quot;. trial design and temporality, most clinical trials extrapolate those benefits to a population at Public Health. all right, we're going to move people to make informed decisions but in order right? if we're unfamiliar with the last 35 years it's literally an uninformed decision. 190 could not to say that you should ignore your cholesterol higher isn't necessarily better but higher isn't to pay some attention. yeah this is true and cholesterol here so these numbers would be in example because it's too high but the general idea over 200 milligrams per deciliter which is the be a problem for some people, and vice versa, so in the normal range for total cholesterol, so total cholesterol is a pretty rough metric. why do some people have heart attacks with normal explains why this happens and what it means. kind yeah, because these are some of the most common and so over the years we made videos specifically I think this is still introduction, I think still hasn't gone into any evidence so let's we want to start addressing the true cause instead the cause, you want to focus on things that have completely agree with that. if you come to a fire, department. cholesterol always shows up at the up at the accident site. that does not imply just because two things co-occur doesn't mean one a minute ago, right? low cholesterol co-occurs doesn't mean one causes the other. so cholesterol doesn't tell me if it's the cause of plaque, this is why scientists do interventions, actually things get better or worse. so that's the clinical you lower cholesterol, you get less heart they've directly measured plaque size and its cholesterol with a Statin or other drugs that and you lower cholesterol enough you stop plaque a dozen randomized trials or so, so the far beyond just &quot;oh there's cholesterol present visual just to show you that: again, the little this line down here is the cholesterol level meds like statins for example, and on the left you is looking at the plaque in the artery wall with grows over time. now, the line in the middle is below that line is plaque reduction, what we call smaller with time. so you see that in Trials where as cholesterol level is pushed lower, plaque it hits zero, and eventually you go low enough, plaque is slowly regressing a bit. and the around that point where it crosses zero it's which is roughly 80 milligrams per deciliter, of heart disease and plaques? and the real causes which is associated often with insulin resistance what evidence has he seen that has convinced strong correlation between cardiovascular it? strong correlation? didn't he just give Association and causation and don't be confused on &quot;they correlate with cardiovascular disease&quot;. making the mistake. I don't know if maybe they this for him and it ended up back to back, because based on a logic he just told us to be wary of. claims so far, still hasn't shown a shred it's still another 20 minutes of video to go. are let me just check real quick. subscribe to the subscribing? other videos of his to watch, share yeah there's no scientific references here. so I substance. let's just cover the basic concepts of make it easier going forward. so basically and it travels in our bloodstream in you've heard of LDL, you've heard of HDL, and are tiny clumps of fat and protein, as the name Transporters of fats in the blood. okay, why does in cardiovascular research points to the number the main reason that the risk of plaque and heart that it's the number of vehicles on the road that more or less passengers inside doesn't matter that there's basically two families, the HDL family includes LDLs, VLDLs and a few others, and they're called the APO B lipoproteins because kind of like a tag, and you can actually measure number of those lipoproteins. these authors stated (particles is just another name for lipoproteins), than the mass of cholesterol (rather than the that determines risk. okay so if it's about the how come we always hear about cholesterol, lipoproteins? in fact, all the values in our triglycerides etc those are all lipids carried is the cholesterol carried inside the the cholesterol carried inside the, you guessed I have being carried inside these lipoproteins, my LDL cholesterol goes up, the cholesterol chances are the number of LDL lipoproteins also trials used LDL cholesterol as an indicator, of these apob lipoproteins, it's a proxy, and maybe I have higher cholesterol but they're just fuller. right? that happens. it's if you're thinking &quot;this is a nightmare and we there's a lot of leading experts that agree with in but as usual with these institutional the carriers and the passengers, is the basic cardiovascular disease. now, there are more risk diabetes, tobacco, they all raise risk. so we say just one thing. incidentally, these factors are no diabetes and not smoke and still have heart but they're not absolutely necessary. okay, what well, inflammation is also a cardiovascular risk people with generalized inflammation, and gave them an anti-inflammatory and just like we saw with statins in the Statin things worse, but just like tobacco or high who have high cholesterol have higher risk even if and if you lower their cholesterol and their without significantly affecting their inflammatory so generalized inflammation is a factor, it's not disease. what about insulin resistance? people cholesterol and high triglycerides, that combo with that combo have higher risk of heart disease, HDL cholesterol and triglycerides can still have the more plaque. in fact, you can sometimes of heart disease. so different classes of statins some lower, it some make it better, some have insulin resistance. but they all help prevent like heart attacks, in clinical trials. so with worse while at the same time risk of heart now, that doesn't rule out that insulin and nobody recommends ignoring insulin resistance, real cause of heart disease, I don't see how we look forward to seeing what else he's basing this oxidative stress. it's a broad concept, it's not is oxidative and it's bad for heart disease, it's good for the heart. so it's not this simple. based on what evidence? is it human data, is he doesn't show any evidence, he doesn't link to I'm not sure where he heard this idea. one is oxidized LDL or oxLDL for short. we've is a metric that correlates with heart disease seem to actually cause it, several clinical and in general it was a flop, trying to modulate modulate risk of heart disease, unlike what we Etc so now oxLDL is thought to be a basically a reflection of other factors but not inflammation and oxidation are related to heart with oxidation in the plaque, so maybe that's what not generalized oxidative stress in the plasma in the plaque. so what happens is, those little inside the artery wall, and when that happens inflammation and oxidation. so if that's what he's I don't know why you'd call those steps the real right after, because those are consequences of to be there previously for the process to begin, more important than any of this mechanistic inside the artery wall there's no known way to the way to avoid the whole thing is to avoid the wall in the first place, which is done by keeping being this indicator of apob levels if there is range? depends a little bit who you ask but under of thumb for people who are not at very high risk, that. and also to keep blood pressure and glucose Etc. controlling generalized inflammation, those are the factors we can control and that have can control these risk factors with lifestyle. people need the extra boost of medication and it's biochemical Pathways for hours, I love it, but has been demonstrated as causal, what actions have to know and that's what will deliver the goods. so scientifically before we form these strong views the real cause, otherwise we're just forming okay last thing before we move on, can something with gray hair die more and it's not the real but I don't see a correlation, is that possible? also smokes and has high blood pressure, and diabetes is not going to explain the risk well with risk because they both have it, it we have to go beyond just &quot;does this correlate&quot;, not quite that simple. like he said, fire and is the real deal, like smoking and lung cancer adjustment models, we can run genetic studies, we one factor, like you give Statins only to half of right? you can't always do an RCT, you can't so there you have to rely on the statistical but with cardiovascular disease and cholesterol and it's been done dozens of times. all right, introduction, the bullet points, and he's going total cholesterol of 286 and it's supposed to be so it's marked with a flag, and I would be a was a hundred than if it was 286. it depends why from a young age that's great news, maybe they're now, 286 is very high so this person probably of lipoproteins, of ApoB lipoproteins, so you so hopefully he will. then we look at his HDL high enough? it's above that threshold but is it right so this is one of the most common that HDL cholesterol offsets risk. this comes from HDL cholesterol tend to have lower risk. again, it's always the same story. raising HDL this has now been tested in dozens of randomized it's well accepted. HDL can correlate risk factors like obesity or diabetes but not mean no risk, that's a common mistake. high HDL cholesterol does not offset that. so now I'd like to see this ratio in the three to super common question, dividing total cholesterol yeah these ratios correlate populationally with always the same story. given what we just saw with that include HDL cholesterol aren't reliable. so I can double my HDL cholesterol, but it doesn't necessarily do anything to my risk. resistance for example but you don't want to lean risk because they're unreliable. the ratio can you can even go in the opposite direction of just like he said in the beginning, real Etc. so you can see that the whole video essentially on the same misunderstanding, this which he explained himself early in the I don't even think this video requires fact attention to what he himself explained in the 0 or 1 is not a good number because then your body and that is an essential nutrient. right? the definition of an essential nutrient is get from the outside. cholesterol is produced all it's a stereotypical example of a non-essential which just means something your body needs to cholesterol. and I'm sure he knows the difference moment and it ended up in the video. it happens. was that if your cholesterol level in the blood your body. that's a very common misunderstanding, all the cholesterol in our body, most of the where it's produced and where it's utilized, so lipoproteins, in the carriers, is a minority. the to explain this is that you often hear this physiological roles so why would I want to lower most tissues make their own cholesterol, the so keeping blood cholesterol levels in the it in the tissues where it's needed. also, the bind to the lipoproteins and can suck up some of much lower than our regular cholesterol levels, cholesterol plays important physiological is confusion. imagine applying this logic to important roles throughout the body so let's keep potassium and sodium play key physiological roles and sodium you're not alive, so let's keep them the blood is called hyperkalemia, it's potentially base these decisions on scientific evidence and is important for some things so let's just crank to recycle this LDL, it wants to keep it going, then this system works like a revolving door, but this oxidized LDL does not, the liver the oxidized LDL, the oxLDL we talked about recognized by the liver, can't be removed from because he doesn't show any evidence, he doesn't of removal of lipoproteins from circulation, and of oxidized LDL is usually done in lab models, things like that, which doesn't mean it's bad and all of that evidence that I've seen oxidized lipoproteins being removed faster from any oxidized lipoproteins that might appear be rapidly removed by the liver. in this study, rapid. and you can see that OxLDL was almost whereas the non-oxidized LDL, the native LDL, mildly oxidized LDL is removed from circulation but much slower than heavily oxidized LDL. so the exact opposite of the idea he's voicing. this is why it's so important that we show otherwise I don't know if it's a personal he misunderstood it, there's no way to know. the which are the pillar of cardiovascular moving. here is the real cause of atherosclerotic so what this oxidized LDL does, it damages the okay so we touched on this already, this idea that are the real cause of heart disease, like he decades ago, it was directly tested over and so it's generally accepted that OxLDL, oxidized is most likely not causal, most likely does not I talk to don't even look at oxLDL, they don't the video we have with the low carb cardiologist as we said earlier, the bulk of the oxidation lipoprotein crosses into the artery wall and gets not in circulation, not in the plasma, because and number two, like we saw, the few lipoproteins removed from circulation anyway, that clearance it damages the inside layer and makes the gaps Tiny can slip through the crack and start getting common question, this idea that there's damage to the crack in the wall like he said. this was an to injury hypothesis, that something would cause lipoproteins to slip in through that damage, kind fallen out of favor for a couple reasons: first, especially early plaque, it's usually found under endothelium, so there's no overt damage there actually figured out how lipoproteins get process of active transport called transcytosis. so it's just a process of carrying the lipoprotein an internalization process and vesicles that transport mechanism, you don't need damage, as transcytosis across the intact in a living organism), endothelial injury is sub endothelium (sub-endothelium just means under if you have extensive damage and your artery lipoproteins rushing in? yeah that probably does grow and most plaque is seen starting and growing move on but just another little tidbit, I told largely been abandoned. so what's the reigning lipoproteins cross into the artery wall, many of retained, and that triggers the plaque process. Etc. so retention is seen as the initiating step. or not? there are some genetic differences and then the modulating factors that have been keeping ApoB low, the lower the apob also good blood pressure, not smoking etc etc. there's something called a macrophage that starts its job is to go after and Gobble up this LDL, now that's all true, once the lipoprotein is stuck there's aggregation, there's inflammation, there's foam cell, that's all true. alright he's back to as before or not. we did one test on January started off with a total cholesterol of 297 which high but it's a couple of points higher at 299. that those values are significantly different, but yeah, both very high, this is someone you'd high ApoB and are at higher risk. we look considered bad, and that was 225, and so at this level, this High, depending on the disease like FH, familial hypercholesterolemia. changes in his lifestyle, doing low carb high fat not impressed, he was asked very sternly or told fat doesn't necessarily raise your cholesterol, you do it, so it hinges on the type of fat that as well as some other things like how much so it's totally doable to eat low carb for people in fact that video with the cardiologist who what he does to keep his ApoB low, so it's not yeah because these are extreme levels. I'm not not, if this is a recent rise, depending how a result of the diet. we ordered an NMR profile, you measure the particle count. okay, LDL-P, which is the same as lipoprotein, and so don't LDL lipoproteins and LDL-C is the cholesterol I know scientists suck when it comes to coming LDL-P measures the number of lipoproteins, very little difference between the two. this extreme you pretty much know their ApoB, sometimes with more borderline values there's want this number to be under a thousand his LDL-P, his number of LDL lipoproteins, is range. his LDL particle count went down from 455. yeah he went in the right direction, he's values and it's still astronomical, it's than the maximum to three times higher than right direction. a 15% reduction in the number of he misspoke there again. I'm sure he knows the down 15%. nothing to do with cells. but more were reduced? he just keeps saying cells. so maybe the difference between a cell and A lipoprotein. A there are no organelles, it doesn't have the hundred times smaller than a Red blood cell for cells, so it's a completely different biological LDL-P measures lipoproteins, not cells. so now from 1653 to 1227. so what we see here is crucial, oxidized LDL particles, the ones that cause the common question about lipoprotein size: is it are potentially harmful, and the large ldls are couple months ago, like a 40 minute video I'm not going to go over all of that again correlates with risk but in all likelihood, is not causal for risk. does that sound every time I say fire and firefighters we take small ldls associate with risk better than large Association or is it causation, right? whether at genetic studies, all LDL sizes, small and large even the largest ldls, like idls and even some all are potentially atherogenic. I'll just show the association of LDL size with cardiovascular when adjusted for ApoB. so the size of correlates with risk, but this Association is of these lipoproteins, which is the key metric. associate but don't actually pan out when we dig familial hypercholesterolemia, which is a genetic very high ApoB and very high risk of heart so patients with this disease have primarily atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, indicating large ldls) are not benign. and this summarizes less than 70 nanometer in diameter freely flux layer of the artery wall), where they can become is 70 nanometer? a nanometer is a measure of size, nanometers in a millimeter, so LDL lipoproteins to 25 nanometer, so the smallest ldls are around are other lipoproteins in the same family and to 80 and higher. so the cutoff is 70 nanometer, the artery wall and be part of atherosclerotic can do it and many vldls even can do it except for varieties seem to be about equally atherogenic difference in size. we have two videos going over details. so in this patient it looks like most that's fine, it's a step in the right direction, if it was in the vldls that were reduced it would ldls where you saw the reduction, they're still range, so yeah this patient needs a lot of investigated, I sincerely hope they're seeing a somebody with deep understanding of this field. number of receptors to reabsorb LDL particles. pretty self-explanatory, and it increases on absolutely right. if we take a Statin, then we we're going to see a dramatic decrease of if you remember, that these small ones, they statin drug will decrease total cholesterol but it will not reduce the cholesterol that we're there is no change. okay there's a little bit preferentially reduce larger ldls but that is also are also atherogenic. in fact, if you think about ldls are not harmless because we already know attacks from dozens of outcome trials, and because correctly, that suggests those lipoproteins are see from the other lines of evidence, whether it's these lipoproteins are atherogenic, the small and family that are much larger than any LDL size. so you can see exactly where he got confused and you thinking process there is, statins mainly lower the smaller ldls we want to lower, and that makes if we're missing all those Decades of Trials effect statins have in the first place. if you introduction, he seems to be under the impression serum cholesterol levels, and everything else, any is all a guess. in reality we already know they on particle size perfectly matches that, those sizes are atherogenic. so we're going to move on, this realization that it's not about who's it's about a general familiarity with the existing in his shoes, if nobody had showed me 30 or doubt I would probably hold very similar views. and oxidation and all these molecular things but have been demonstrated to lower risk in humans? have the right parents, if not, with lifestyle, we tips to lower ApoB, and for people who need it, the other risk factors, healthy body weight, blood the fluffy particles, the oxLDL, we can talk risk minimization is going to come from and it can over statin side effects, very important topic, on this because there's a lot of questions on muscle pathology and weakness. in people who the most common by far, so we'll let him explain navigate it. so now the heart has to work harder and things like that. I mean, where's the he just moved on. maybe he'll come back to he seems to do this,, he throws some things really explain it and just moves on. so now he's which is an enlarged heart, megaly means big, seen a couple studies pertaining to statins and finding no significant difference in cardiomegaly one actually found that Statin-untreated patients cardiomegaly and symptoms of heart failure, but the best, it's not very compelling. what about there's a meta-analysis of randomized Trials where which is a condition where we often see a dilation stretched and thinner and weaker and the heart treatment actually countered this trend and helped which is beneficial in this population, and only in ventricular remodeling, so the shape got so basically the exact opposite of the question cardiomegaly and enlarge the heart. now, more a little bigger or smaller, the wall gets a little and for people at risk, who have an indication, cardiovascular mortality so it's a net benefit maybe there's this effect, that other effect, questions, it's good to keep investigating, but less heart attacks, less death. another so first we interfere with the production of make and reabsorb cholesterol and then we block one more place that uses more energy than any of your body weight, uses 20% of all the energy in the energy production to that as well. again, give people the information they need. do statins on the heart? positive or negative? two percent the actual effect of the drug on these organs? of evidence on this specifically, hundreds of effects, looking for side effects and tabulating not speculate that there could be a problem and people make an informed decision? so let's go over people on a Statin don't report muscle problems based on whether it's a randomized controlled all the way up to 20 something percent of people about this: if you take people who report symptoms and you split them randomly and half gets a with no Statin in it but they don't know which same intensity, no significant difference. so cause muscle pains and sure enough, feeling more statins even though the pill we're taking contains Placebo is when I think I'm on a drug and I drug. nocebo is when I think I'm on a drug and I and large analyses indicate that over 90 percent actually due to the Statin itself. I don't rule to the Statin molecule itself, and I suspect but there seems to be a big component on social media and on TV, especially with regards people who report Statin intolerances and who stop on and tolerate them, between 50 and 90 percent that the nocebo effect doesn't mean the pain isn't in your head&quot; is not a good approach, but being opens the possibility, at an individual level, so that's one option. another option is trying results. yet another option is trying a different some people might have a legitimate intolerance option is to just give up on the statins. maybe used to be a big deal 20 years ago when there but now there's ezetimibe, there's pcsk9 been shown to lower cholesterol, lower ApoB, and in randomized trials. most data with those newer a Statin but there is some data on monotherapy, so another one that's brand new is called bempedoic to statins but it's more organ selective so it okay, so we touched on muscle, we touched on statins can cause a mild elevation of this happens in about one to two percent relevant and it's transient, it comes back down liver problems linked to statins are rare. okay, ask about cognitive function and dementia, and when we look at the largest randomized trials function even when cholesterol is pushed very low. analysis pooled 46 observational studies and found dementia and Alzheimer's disease. but of course they're not randomized trials so we don't jump to studies all together. on the other hand there forgetfulness and confusion and cognitive find smaller studies here and there suggesting the bulk of the evidence indicates that statins most people but it is possible that in specific they lower risk of dementia and Alzheimer's in episodes of forgetfulness and confusion in people reports, and it's not just &quot;oh I felt this&quot;, the symptoms go away, they go back on this is called a re-challenge, so I think in some people, it's just not very frequent and large trials. so in people who report these I think it makes sense to either try a lower dose, issues with hydrophilic statins like pravastatin atorvastatin. or just stopping the Statin and again, we now have many Alternatives, okay another common question pertaining to the ischemic and hemorrhagic. ischemic strokes happen clot or an embolus and so not enough blood gets hemorrhagic stroke, as the name indicates, happens gets to the brain area that's supposed to be about 90 percent of Strokes are ischemic. so strokes and they have no significant effect on now, for people who have a high risk of have a history of hemorrhagic stroke for example, clear but there's a possibility that statins May so this is what I would do if it were a family stroke, like a history of hemorrhagic stroke or I would weigh the pros and cons carefully and everybody else, statins lower risk of total there, there is one other side effect I think is people at risk of type 2 diabetes, with obesity can speed up the progression to type 2 diabetes by risk factors statins don't significantly they've found that even in those people at higher reduce heart attacks and total deaths, which makes with type 2 diabetes is cardiovascular disease. and mortality benefits of statins exceed the for developing type 2 diabetes&quot;. also, that in people at risk can be prevented with healthy body weight Etc. we have a whole video going over the evidence. so overall, because most of the with the possible exception of the muscle aches can't get around them you stop the Statin and lower risk of heart disease, heart attacks, overviews of all of the evidence usually conclude the benefits greatly outweigh the risks&quot;. I know media, and if you've already decided against this is just to explain scientifically why medication in some situations, for people who have must be getting kickbacks from Big Pharma&quot; or these stories you'll hear on social media, more than happy to advise against any medication than happy to tell you when lifestyle is enough. sometimes it isn't. okay, moving on. so you could of this or you could just stop eating sugar and why would it be one or the other? it's like how about both? intake of refined carbohydrate, of disease, there's substantial evidence for carbohydrates is a great message for a western that at the expense of other risk factors. I know it was a while ago. diet absolutely Etc. it's not all one thing. also, very important to stop eating food X without explaining what from past research that cutting back on refined you eat instead. replace refined grains with with saturated fat, risk is not improved. replaced protein, risk comes down. so that's things like maybe some plain yogurt, legumes etc etc. that's forget about everything else&quot;, you risk sending this video you should really take a look at that so that whole introduction in the beginning, he just never went back to some of those those points he said &quot;we're going to talk about pieces of footage lying around and they kind of speaks nice and slow, seems like a really nice just a general unfamiliarity with the the point is not to tear into this one person social media saying random stuff off the cuff, the navigate this confusion on the internet? we demand evidence for claims, we have to fact check too, don't just trust me, go through the sources, triangulate with other sources, take your time, views based on what we would like to be true, care what we prefer. a word for viewers who may maybe he helped you lose weight or feel better taking that away from you, in fact if you consume not less, because you want to know if it stands it's not an attack on the individual. if the idea we toss it. of course, all done professionally, matches it's an emotional argument, it's not a we'll contact him, we'll share all the scientific nothing like that, happy to talk offline, provide the information on board and course correct the