So, let me add to the complexity of the situation we find ourselves in. At the same time that we're solving we're going to be building cities That's a doubling If we don't get that right, I'm not sure all the climate solutions because so much depends not just environmental impacts, but our social well-being, our economic vitality, our sense of community and connectedness. Fundamentally, the way we shape cities of the kind of humanity we bring to bear. And so getting it right is, I think, the order of the day. And to a certain degree, getting it right because in the end, it's our behavior that seems The problem isn't free-floating, and it isn't just ExxonMobil It's us; how we live. How we live. There's a villain in this story. It's called sprawl, But it's not just the kind of sprawl as low-density development out at the periphery Actually, I think sprawl can happen The key attribute It segregates people and land-use enclaves. It separates them from nature. It doesn't allow the cross-fertilization, the interaction, that make cities great places and that make society thrive. So the antidote to sprawl is really especially when we're taking on So let me take you through one exercise. We developed the model so they could get on We did a whole series of scenarios and this is just one We mixed different development prototypes and said they're going to carry us 10 million new crew And one was sprawl. It's just more of the same: office parks. The other one was dominated by, but just compact development, what we used to think of walkable neighborhoods, low-rise, but integrated, And the results are astounding. They're astounding not just of this one shift but also because each one represents a special interest group one at a time. They did not see the, what I call, that allows them to join with others. So, land consumption: environmentalists are really so are farmers; there's a whole range of people, and, of course, neighborhood groups The sprawl version of California almost doubles the urban Greenhouse gas: tremendous savings, because in California, our biggest and cities that don't depend obviously create huge savings. Vehicle miles traveled: Just reducing the average 10,000 miles from somewhere has a huge impact but also on the household pocketbook. It's very expensive to drive that much, and as we've seen, the middle class is struggling to hold on. Health care: we were talking about clean the air. Why not just stop polluting? Why not just use our feet and bikes more? And that's a function of the kinds Household costs: 2008 was a mark in time, not of just the financial It was that we were trying to sell large lot, single family, distant, too expensive for the average and, quite frankly, not a good fit But in order to move inventory, you can discount the financing I think that's a lot of what happened. Reducing cost by 10,000 dollars -- remember, in California this is a big element. That's just cars and utility costs. So the affordable housing advocates, separate from the environmentalists, everybody fighting with everyone, now begin to see common cause, and I think the common cause Los Angeles, as a result of these efforts, has now decided to transform itself into a more transit-oriented environment. As a matter of fact, since '08, they've voted in 400 billion dollars and zero dollars for new highways. What a transformation: LA becomes a city of walkers and transit, not a city of cars. (Applause) How does it happen? You take the least you add where there's space, transit and then you infill mixed-use development, you satisfy new housing demands and you make the existing neighborhoods all around it more complex, more interesting, more walkable. Here's another kind of sprawl: China, high-density sprawl, but the same problems, and of course this amazing smog Twelve percent of GDP on the health impacts of that. The history, of course, It's like any other place. Community was all about small, local shops and local services and walking, It may sound utopian, but it's not. It's actually what people really want. The new superblocks -- these are blocks that would have and they're gated as well, And of course, there isn't even a very sterile environment. I found this one case where people had illicitly set up so that they could have that kind The desire of people We just have to get the planners All right. Some technical planning stuff. Chongqing is a city of 30 million people. It's almost as big as California. This is a small growth area. They wanted us to test in several cities across China. This is for four-and-a-half What the takeaway from this image is, every one of those circles around a transit station -- massive investment in metro and BRT, and a distribution that allows everybody to work within walking distance of that. The red area, this is a blow-up. All of a sudden, our principles preserving the important And then those other streets in there So instead of bulldozing, and building right up to the river, this green edge was something until these set of practices began experimentation there. The urban fabric, small blocks, maybe 500 families per block. They know each other. The street perimeter has shops so there's local destinations. And the streets themselves become smaller, because there are more of them. Very simple, straightforward urban design. Now, here you have something Think of the logic. If only a third of the people have cars, why do we give 100 percent What if we gave 70 percent of the streets to car-free, to everybody else, so that the transit so that they could walk, Why not have -- (Applause) geographic equity in our circulation system? And quite frankly, No matter what they do, no matter how many ring roads they just can't overcome So this is an auto-free street, It has transit running down the middle. I'm happy to make that transit but maybe I'll have a chance So there are seven principles by the highest levels and they're moving to implement them. And they're simple, and they are globally, One is to preserve and the critical agriculture. Second is mix. Mixed use is popular, I mean mixed incomes, mixed age groups as well as mixed-land use. Walk. There's no great city You don't go there. The places you go on vacation Why not make it everywhere? Bike is the most efficient China has now adopted policies on every street. They're serious about getting back (Applause) Complicated planner-ese here: connect. It's a street network instead of singular routes and provides many kinds of streets Ride. We have to invest more in transit. There's no silver bullet. Autonomous vehicles are not As a matter of fact, they're going than the alternative. And focus. We have a hierarchy of the city rather than the old armature of freeways. It's a big paradigm shift, but those two things in ways that really shape So I'm very hopeful. In California, the United States, China -- I'm hopeful for two reasons. One is, most people get it. They understand intrinsically what a great city can and should be. The second is that the kind of analysis allows people to connect the dots, allows people to shape that didn't exist in the past. That allows them to bring into being Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson: So, OK: A lot of people here What are your concerns Peter Calthorpe: Well, I think First is, everybody says What they don't say is you're going You're going to get a lot more There will be more congestion. CA: Because they're so appealing -- you can drive while reading or sleeping. PC: Well, a couple of reasons. One is, if they're privately owned, It'll be a new lease on life to sprawl. If you can work on your way to work, you can live in more remote locations. It'll revitalize sprawl in a way that I'm deeply frightened. Taxis: about 50 percent of the surveys say If they don't share them, you can end up with a 90 percent If you share them, you're still at around CA: Sharing them, meaning in some sort of intelligent ride-sharing? PC: Yeah, so the Uber share The reality is, the efficiency with or without a steering wheel, They claim they're the only ones but that's not true. But the real bottom line are the way cities and communities thrive. And putting people whether they have a steering wheel or not, is the wrong direction. And quite frankly, the image of an AV on its way without its owner, just being sent off on these is really frightening to me. CA: Well, thank you for that, of those mixed-use streets PC: Thank you. (Applause)