Transcriber: Chris Anderson: Simon, I'll start us off after a year of the pandemic, probably one of the most extraordinary What do you think the unexpected I mean, do you think we've kind of -- Part of me thinks that people that it's almost like Have you seen any evidence of that Simon Sinek: I think we've definitely of mental health. And that it's a real thing and that mental health affects We all suffered trauma during COVID. Some of us dealt with it earlier, some of us are still dealing with it, When COVID first started, you know, many of us had to pivot our organizations, had to pivot our businesses very quickly. And so I, like many others, And I called a friend of mine And I asked him a very simple question, how do I compartmentalize my emotions And he gave me a very stern warning. He said, you can't. He said, we can compartmentalize our but no one, no one escapes And he said, you may not even experience you may not experience it when you may experience it months later. He says, I experience it four So immediately I hung up the phone and called all my A-type and said, OK, we think we're good, but we're going to get hit And we made a deal that when we we would call each other. Safe space. And we made another deal That if you had to cry, you picked up Well, about four or five I started to feel off my game And so I called that same and I asked no leading questions. I simply asked him, tell me what your when you come home from combat. And he said, well, number one, He said he starts going to bed and doesn't want to get up in the morning. And I thought to myself, yep. He says he has some unproductive days &quot;It's OK, you know, But then he has another And I thought to myself, yep. And he said he becomes very antisocial and he definitely doesn't want And I thought to myself, yep. And I realized what I was going And I was afraid to use for fear that that was some I think a lot of people but that's exactly I was going through And I followed the rule and I called people. Because one of the things how do you overcome it? He said, you have to force yourself and force yourself to call friends And so I think one of the things, I think that comes out of COVID, is we recognized just the importance You know, in this fast-paced we kidded ourselves to think just because we were connected. But it was amazing to see regardless of someone's age we all picked up the phone. Like, young people And I think that intense craving I think we were reminded just CA: That phrase you've mentioned, I mean, forgive me asking, SS: Yes. I followed my own counsel to my friends. And when I had to cry, I picked up the phone and I just cried. And I had friends call me and do the same. CA: And there was healing in that. SS: The most important thing was that we didn't -- none of us felt alone. And there's intense safety. That amazing sense of safety You know, you can't feel safe like, that's when we need it the most. But you have to build those relationships. You build those relationships where you think you're strong, It's very hard to start in the moment of crisis. And I think it's a lesson Which is, you can't judge by how a ship performs in calm waters. You judge the quality of a crew But the time in calm waters is when you're building and you don't really actually know and trusting teams until the crisis strikes. And I heard this from a lot of people: When COVID happened, they commented on how they realized Some people kind of fell by the wayside, It's just like, we didn't call each other weren't angry or anything. And there are some people who came out and those friendships flourished. And that's what I mean. It takes hardship for those friendships But that's why we have to invest and we don't think we need anybody. And I think we forget that. CA: What would you say that they're in this moment, and they actually don't feel for example, pick up the phone and cry with? Is it hopeless for them until this passes? Or what would you say to them? SS: There is an irony. There's an irony in when we need help. And when I was writing I had the opportunity and visit Alcoholics Anonymous. And it is a remarkable organization. And many of us are familiar And many of us are familiar which is admitting you have a problem. But then it's the other 11 steps And Alcoholics Anonymous knows that if you master the first 11 steps, but not the 12th, you are likely to succumb to the disease. But if you master the 12 steps, you're more likely That 12th step is to help It's service. And so there's a great irony to actually help someone who's struggling And it is the most So, you know, if we need it's to offer the shoulder If we're feeling lonely, it's to be there for someone else And this goes way beyond these subjects, which is if we're looking for love if we're looking for the job we love, to help somebody else And there's tremendous value in service. And you hear about these you talk to people why they chose to go especially if they're in let's say somebody And you say, why did you go &quot;When I was younger, and somebody was there to counsel me and I decided I wanted to commit This is what happens with service. And we forget, just because we live we're actually a very The human animal is a legacy machine And we still work the same way we used to. And we desperately need each other as much as we did in small tribes of 150 people. And so service service is the thing. CA: That sounds like, even for someone who's not feeling, but a good checklist-question to ask is, is there someone there maybe other people and maybe there is a call I could make that would be incredibly and help build SS: &quot;Are you OK?&quot; &quot;How are you? You know, a friend of mine, George Flynn, he says his test for a leader is they actually care about the answer. And I really like that. CA: OK, I could talk with you but we're going to go So here's a question from Kayum. &quot;If there is no way to get back &quot;then are we on the right path Or can you help us with a blueprint SS: So blueprint? No. Guidances? Yes. I think that humanity has to be -- We have to remember that humanity matters. And when I say humanity, I mean little-H humanity, our humanity. When COVID first happened, so many leaders leaned on their humanity, whether they were effective many of them picked up the phone They called their teams Or they called their friends to say, Well, we don't need a global That's called good leadership and we should be doing that all the time. And we should be encouraging for those in their charge. You know, the hierarchy I hope that remains. I hope that remains. I hope the use of the telephone remains. That we don't just go back I hope that putting our phones away I think there's a lot of kids that will actually come through this with stronger relationships and stronger relationship because they had so much time together. And kids who may have struggled prior because they weren't getting because their parents you know, even if mom or dad that hour that they would ordinarily that they could focus on their kid. I think a lot of kids And kids are remarkably adaptable. They're remarkably adaptable. CA: Here's a question from Mariusz. &quot;Could you give us some tips SS: Absolutely. I'll give you a little exercise It's called the Friends Exercise. Find a friend you love and who loves you. The person who, if they called you you take the call and you know Do not do this with a sibling or a spouse. Do not do this with a parent. Those relationships are too close. Do it with a best friend. And go up to them &quot;Why are we friends?&quot; And they're going to look at you because you're asking them You're asking them to use that doesn't control feelings, and to put the thing that exists which it doesn't do. And so it's actually They're going to say, &quot;I don't know.&quot; It's not that they don't know, Ironically, you stop asking and you start asking the question, &quot;what&quot; &quot;What is it about me that I know no matter what?&quot; And they won't know how to answer it. They'll start describing you. &quot;I don't know, you're funny, I trust you. You've always been there for me.&quot; You play devil's advocate. &quot;Good. That's the definition of a friend. What specifically is it about me that I know you'd be there for me And they'll continue to do the same. They'll keep trying to describe you. You get the idea. Eventually they'll give up And they'll say, and this is what my friend said to me &quot;I don't know, Simon. I could just sit in the same room as you And I got goosebumps, They will articulate the value and you will have some sort goosebumps or you'll well up, because what they're telling you your Why is the thing You can do this with multiple friends if not the exact same thing, That is the thing you give to the world. So it may not give you exact language, but it will put you squarely CA: Here's an anonymous question. &quot;I have a friend who is currently and he's just not like he used to be. I don't know what to say to him. He's actually annoyed by the question, How can I offer my help?&quot; SS: So one of the things I learned is sometimes statements Because questions people can avoid, right? This is what we all did during COVID. &quot;How are you?&quot; &quot;Fine. Fine.&quot; And then what do you do with that? And so try making a statement, right? Something's wrong. Something's different. You're not the same. I'm worried about you. Make statements. And it leaves very little room for somebody to divert the conversation. You're not the person I know. And do it with love and empathy don't show up to solve the problem. Especially when you're starting you don't show up to solve the problem. You show up to create an environment in which they'd be willing That's the only goal. So try a statement instead of a question. CA: So here's the last question, What do you mean, Simon, SS: Leadership has nothing I know many people who sit who are not leaders. We do as they tell us but we don't trust them And yet I also know many people who sit that have no formal rank and yet they've made the choice to look after the person and the person to the right of them, and we would trust them Leadership is the responsibility It's the responsibility to take care That's what leadership is. It's not about being in charge. It's about taking care And the only thing title is lead with greater scale. Every single one of us has the opportunity Every single one of us. CA: Simon, thank you so much SS: Thanks, Chris. I really appreciate it. Take care of yourself. [Get access to thought-provoking Become a TED member