How Bad Do You Want To Awaken? It's good to be with you again. I don't know why? But it is. Because I'm when you are with people of like It's really interesting how many people want to be look into their lives, they put everything else they worry about their jobs, about their families themselves about their happiness, about the up when you have all these things on your mind? all the holidays we take, vacations. Someone longer will it be before I awaken? And by the Well this is an enigma to me. I recall when I was that I used to have to sneak out of the house to York. And in the winter time I had to take a train and half hours to get downtown. But something What I'm getting at is this: your life that's what you ultimately become. that's what supports you, you're looking at is the Self. Work is only one of the channels of taken care of because the Self is self-contained first obligation should be toward finding What about vacations, holidays? Wherever If you are a miserable person you're going to take may seem as though you were taking a break from fault with the hotel you're staying in, with because that is what you do when you are here. to awaken they will put the teaching first. saying this because I want to see you here all to do what you like. I'd be the last one to I'd like to tell certain people where to You have to come to the conclusion of what within you has to be so strong, you've always to go anywhere? You are the universe. There is that the whole universe is an emanation of Where do you have to go? happiness and peace, it's right within you. it's right within you. Whatever you need is within You have to ask yourself, how badly do I wish When some of us are experiencing good karma, in this world, sometimes we go further away happy. Since we have the so-called good things subject to change. Your fortune can you still become earthbound. So the next time The universe is a cosmic joke. It plays games things. Your mind appears to be very strong. It attached. There are very few people who break out of a thousand people, one searches for him. They are referring to the Self. you are engrossed in the world. I'm not recluse. I'm simply saying, first things your body will take care of itself. Something not starve. This something can take care of your not have to keep thinking about your affairs You must begin to understand that you are the to the truth of your being. You can tell where about today, since you woke up this morning. How often did you practice self-inquiry? How often you identified yourself with the worldly with persons, with places and then you tell me I Of course the truth is that you're already just words. What are you doing to prove it? self-realization. Even though you may believe may appear very important to you, but from a worry about. Absolutely nothing to worry about. No that it is an appearance and that is how you see &quot;To whom does it come? Who is experiencing this?&quot; pushing yourself away from liberation. What can consciousness is bliss. There is nothing else. fear. Hate, revenge, all these traits and even the I want to remind you that you are not good human hood. What you are trying to be all right if you stick to your sadhana. If or surrender, or just to sit in the silence. You really do not have to meditate formally. through just for today. Doubts, suspicions, perhaps. Some joy here and there, some happiness happy when things go their way. When the But that doesn't last long. Soon something comes They become upset, confused, disillusioned. with the world. In other words it doesn't your experience is sick or healthy, rich nothing to do with self-realization. Your to come closer to it or move you away from it, to handle every experience just the same. sixty million dollars. How many of you would say, only say it when there's something wrong, forget all about it. And you'll be on the next you would come back to Sunday celebration if you Do you see how strong maya is, it plays games with when things are going wrong. To be born is a through are because you were born. But isn't it get it over with? Instead of playing the game of Start to understand that I am not the body-mind only an appearance of karma. But I am not that, Who experiences karma? Who experiences human these things? I do? The I is the answer of with I. As long as you believe I exist as accordingly. Through all the experiences will be bad and you will have the yo-yo syndrome. next day something bad, something good will take place for two weeks. Something good will down like a yo-yo. Wanting to extend your good Psychology will not help you. Psychiatry will will not help you. Liquor will not help you. from these experiences. All these psychological The only thing that will help is to find out first pronoun come from, I? It must come from doesn't come from outside of me, due to the fact But what self am I referring to? I am hungry, I am full.&quot; Where does that I come This procedure is called abiding in the I. You of yourself, &quot;Where did it come from?&quot; if you You will soon discover that the I comes to life and it becomes stronger as you go through the day. will realize that it really has no source. The I but it's a non-entity. You must discover this for ever make. By discovering this you will have Just by discovering the I has no source. It never anywhere when you die. For there is nowhere to go. always be. Sat-chit-ananda. You are the ultimate That is you. Not the I. I'm speaking of the this out for yourself. This is why in the practice the spiritual heart on the right side of your heart, it's the same as discovering that the you. When you awaken everything is dissolved. is no longer a you or a me. There is no longer a question of liberation. There is left to ask a question. There is no one left to see the world. There is no one left to have a You actually do not become an embodiment of total It isn't this and it isn't that. It just is. to do, there is nothing you need, there is no you have to read, there is no special teacher you The more you become enthused about the you become. Let go of everything. If it's surrender everything to your infinite Self. Give the responsibility to God. Who is Do not think you're so important That is all you're doing when you think you important. I've got to solve this problem, I is somebody important. I doesn't exist. If You know by now that your problem exists because exist everything disappears. This is what I mean there never were any problems and there as you begin to think there are problems. if you allow your mind to think doesn't a problem that you think is so important at the present in the eternal present, the eternal now, forget live in this particular second, in this second this split second, no one is hungry, no one is As you begin to stay in that split second, this minutes, into ten minutes and as you abide in it, split second where nothing is happening. Where no pure intelligence, absolute So again, it begins when you get up in the thinking I got up, I just woke up. But now here's As soon as you watch yourself saying, &quot;I just the question, &quot;Who is the I that just woke up?&quot; were in bliss, no thoughts. But as soon as into play. In that split second before I came there were no people, there was no universe, there soon as you began to think of I your troubles I'm hungry, I have to take a shower. I have to That is why it's very important to observe it you will see that the I is coming out of your But a funny thing will happen. As you observe As you observe the I or as you question it, It will stop its procedure, it will stop body conscious. All these things happen in you have to be alert, you have to watch for it. it's well worth it. Think about this again. you are already awake in that split second. In awake, you are conscious, you're totally happy, But then the I begins its journey from the heart question its authority, it will lose its momentum If you can get it to return to the heart, you You will go about your business like you you will eat your breakfast, it will all thoughts. The only experience Total happiness, total joy and yet your body at once or it can take time. But it's worth the at least you will be free at that time. anything be more important than this? This earth. It guarantees that while you are alive in self-realized in the body. This is your These teachings used to be handed out by the is most difficult to comprehend the books. Something within that knows what to do to make brain, with your head, you will forget. And when I will take over immediately. You will say I'm that and you will forget everything we're talking your heart, when tomorrow morning comes you I will repeat again how to do this. in that split second you are conscious. The happening in a second. So you've got to be Watch and you will notice that the I begins very &quot;Who are you?&quot; That's the same as saying, Observe, watch. The I will begin to lose momentum. usually happens with people, with most people, is and then the I will take over completely. thing you can do. It has taken most people Be happy with what you've got. But as you begin that split second where you observe the I, will into three-seconds. In other words for those an extent. You will be conscious, period. you will be conscious. And you will a joy. You will know you're on the right track. up and go about your business and ask yourself, During the day as the thoughts come to you, be thoughts come?&quot; They come to me, &quot;Who's me? Who am day. The next morning you do the same thing. things will begin to happen to you May you all experience bliss and your true Self.