Okay, so chances are in the last few days, are a few simple habits that almost anyone And in today's video I'm going to walk you incorporated into my daily routine that have business. Oh, and at the end of the video, I'll share fails. Let's get to it. My first tip is to go outside and get some waking up. Let me just say, this is not how I used to I used to start my day in the way I think email until I eventually rolled out of bed But a few years ago, I decided to swap my And honestly, it has had huge benefits for but throughout the entire day. And apparently, scientists agree. They say that when we view sunlight first out of it. It improves our mood, as well as our energy, us for better sleep at night. I like to combine my sunlight time with a body moving. I find that I have more creative juices flowing the day. But if you're thinking, &quot;Listen lady, I've I have to get ready for school in the morning,&quot; sunny day has been shown to have lots of benefits. Oh, and you don't want to look directly into of the sunlight, although it is pretty early But if your eyes start hurting, definitely On the extremely rare, rainy or foggy days get my morning sunlight. I will instead take this desk lamp and shine in the morning. It's not the same as sunlight, but it's better Tip number two is to consume caffeine consciously. There are two parts to this. Let's talk about the more obvious one first. Don't consume your caffeine too late in the I think most of us know that intuitively, So, caffeine on average has a half-life of And what that means is let's say you have It's going to peak in your system around 4:30 or 5pm gym and feel energized. But five hours later at 9:00 PM, when you're bed, you still have half of that caffeine So, don't drink your coffee too late in the Now for the not so obvious part, drinking it too late in the day, can also negatively This is something I learned from an excellent That's because there's a molecule in our body I'm not a neuroscientist like Dr. Huberman, but basically adenosine makes us feel sleepy. So when we wake up in the morning after a are naturally low and they continue to get But if you drink caffeine as soon as you wake process. So by the time your coffee wears off at let's i.e. more sleepiness in your system than you So, what Dr. Huberman recommends and what to wait an hour and a half to two hours after In sciencey terms, that means your body is And in non-science terms that everyone can much less likely to have that afternoon crash. Now I know some of you're going to be like, it. I need my coffee in the morning,&quot; but I do When I was in law school, I used to start I'd have another one after lunch, and then I basically was having nine shots of espresso So I do get your plight, but I know there's As to the type of caffeine, I think it's a These days, I'm not as caffeine dependent, racy, not that kind of racy. So instead, I drink matcha every morning. It has enough caffeine to make me feel energized, feel relaxed, so I get that calm, steady energy. Tip number three is to remove the biggest One of the greatest lies we've been told is We cannot. What we think of as multitasking is really between different tasks. This not only makes us more tired and less task at a time, but it also makes us less It can take upwards of 20 minutes to get back Now multiply that 20 minutes by every time idea how anyone gets anything done. One of the ways I try to prevent this energy biggest distraction from my workspace, the I find that I have so much more energy and is out of my office, ideally in another room, even when I take a break. And the reason I do this is that even if my on my desk, it's still implicitly distracts It's like it's saying, &quot;Hello, open me.&quot; There are so many fun surprises in here that doing right now. So out of sight, out of mind. But if you are really addicted to your cell option. I recommend getting one of these timed lock Basically, you put your cell phone on the and then you cannot access your phone for There's no emergency valve. You are stuck with your decision. I feel like these days, I no longer need to when my favorite dark chocolate goes on sale Can also download the app Freedom. You put in the websites and apps you find Set a timer, and then Freedom will block you It can be just for 30 minutes, or it can be If you try to access that app or website during time to get back to work. Tip number four for improved energy is to Look, as a kid who grew up in the nineties, sugary cereals of all kinds, poptarts of all Luckily though, as a kid, you have pretty But as with most things in life, as you get more complicated. As we age, when we eat really sugary foods, when we break our fast in the morning, it to inevitably crash, and that leaves us with So, what I try to do at least 90% of the time with a good amount of protein, fat and fiber, avocado and smashed chickpeas and hemp seed, I find that when I do this, my energy levels entire day. And I am by no means saying that donuts are I like them and I eat them, but I try to eat an empty stomach like for breakfast. But I'm definitely not perfect when it comes job is to test and taste recipes basically So if we are testing my pancake recipe for I'm just going to go ahead and have some pancakes. But on those days, I tried to do this next don't spike, which is to go for a walk after Studies show that going for a walk after a can help regulate your digestion and your For me personally, going for a walk after huge in helping me avoid that afternoon slump. If you can't take a walk after a meal, maybe in Minnesota and that sounds miserable, there So instead of taking the elevator to your lunch, or if you have a Zoom call coming up pace back and forth at your desk. It's not the same as walking, but it's definitely Tip number six is to develop and implement I learned about this concept from the book is that you take five to 10 minutes at the workday, to get all of your to-dos and work My personal workday shutdown ritual is to in this planner, including things I didn't Once I have that list, I then start to schedule This is known as time blocking. And while it might sound rigid to some people when you exercise or eat lunch, I personally me energy back, because once I started doing my work to-dos at night when I was trying written them down. So now I fall asleep quicker, which obviously Another benefit is that I don't have to spend about what's the biggest thing I want to accomplish When am I going to get it done? How am I going to fit it around my meetings? Because I've already done all that work for And when I skip this ritual, which sometimes in the morning, I'm more distracted, and it Whatever your specific shutdown ritual is, work from home because it creates this nice and your after work life. Tip number seven is to use temptation bundling I think everyone has experienced that end do something important, whether it's folding bike, but you feel like you just don't have In reality, most of us, at least those of we do have the energy. What we lack though is willpower. And what I've found to be really helpful in the time, is to do temptation bundling. This is a term invented by the researcher is that you bundle or pair an activity you with an activity you really don't want to In my own life, I need to do physical therapy have some old injuries, but usually I don't By the time 8:00 PM rolls around, I have a Nisha, this is your reminder to get your (beep) Alexa, stop. However, a few months ago I started using physical therapy. What that means is, at night, I can't watch it's an easy way for me to unwind with my therapy exercises. It's gotten me to be so much more consistent to my exercises now because I know that I'm Obviously, not all difficult activities can about how this applies to your own life. Maybe you can only listen to your favorite or if you really want to go to that fancy lattes, maybe you can only do that if you email inbox. In a minute, I'll share the strategy I use But for now, let's talk about tip number eight, Possibly the best thing you can do for more workday routine can do is to get enough good Remember when I told you back in law school, day? I had a terrible time sleeping then no surprise. These days, I get seven and a half to eight and I wake up super energized. There are lots of things I do to achieve that, children. But today, I'm going to talk about just three If you're interested in a full sleep routine The first thing I do to optimize my sleep as comfortably possible. For our house, that's about 68 degrees Fahrenheit, In the summer, we use the AC to make that And in the winter, our house is very poorly The second thing is to keep our bedroom as We're renting our house, so we didn't want So we opted for the super, super, super budget We hang a black curtain on our curtain rod, it doesn't look like vampires live there. Raise your fangs all who agree. Well, Max does all of this. I'm too short to reach the curtain. Third, we sleep with a white noise machine. Maybe it's because I lived in New York today to fall asleep in a super quiet environment. It's eerie. It's like I'm in a horror movie waiting to So instead, we sleep with a white noise machine. It helps us fall asleep faster. We recently upgraded to the Hatch restore of different sounds you can fall asleep to, and it also acts as a natural sunrise simulator and gently than an alarm clock. If you're interested in one of these, I've video. Okay, so despite my best efforts, sometimes Maybe I didn't sleep well or I'm distracted If I need to be productive or energized on hate. I will take a cold shower. Oh boy. And I hate it because I'm already always cold cold shower? Well, it's because cold water immersion has levels, which gives you more energy and motivation. In the moment though, it's mostly painful me. But I know that if I can suffer through two and have energy for several hours. All right, those are my tips for improved If you have any strategies or tips, let us Thanks for watching. Bye!