JAMES GRIME: One of the reasons primes is that they are quite On one hand, they kind They are turning up all Sometimes you have these long And then suddenly-- like buses, primes turn up at once. On the other hand, there are about primes and when they're slightly unexpected that They're not completely random. One of the first things I want easy thing. So everyone can do We're going to write the numbers Start with 1 in the middle. Then you write 2. But you go around it-- 4, 5, 6, 7, 8-- do you see It's a square spiral. 12, 13, 14, 15-- it's called an Ulam spiral-- Stanislaw Ulam, he was a And he left Poland just and he went to America. And he worked on the After World War II, he The story of this spiral is, lecture in academia. It was in 1963. And so he's obviously a fan He sat there doodling during And he's writing out Let's see, 30, 31, 32. The next thing he circle the prime numbers. So let's do that. 2 is a prime, and then 3, and 40, 41, 43, is prime, And he noticed, and maybe you prime numbers seem to be lining And if you do this larger, if and you write them out tends to be the case. I've got one here. This is a big Ulam spiral. I think this is something I think this is like And so there's 40,000 numbers Can you see, though, can There's definitely some these diagonal lines. So prime numbers seem to be Or to put it another way, some primes, and some diagonal have lots of primes. So you can see the stripes BRADY HARAN: Are they They look a bit broken JAMES GRIME: Yeah, they are But they have more than average So these stripes might be a good primes, bigger primes, One thing people might say is, in randomness. Those aren't really It's just the human brain. See, if you compare it this, the same size, these And you can see, it's pretty I can't really see any You can see that And you can see that that than just being random. BRADY HARAN: These ginormous they found on diagonals? Like this largest prime known, JAMES GRIME: The largest prime which is of the type 2 to It's one less than a power of 2, large primes. It's computationally kind Perhaps it's not the most quite rare, Mersenne primes. This might be another way to here, this diagonal, This equation is for this one means it starts at three and The equation for that is 4x Let me just try it. Let's do the first one here. So if x is equal to If we tried the next one here, And this one here, that's 31. And well, best do one more, just next, 56 plus 57-- is that a prime number, Brady? BRADY HARAN: 57 is not JAMES GRIME: It's not So the next one isn't a prime next number on that line. BRADY HARAN: So that's one of JAMES GRIME: Yeah, so all these horizontal lines, vertical they are all like this. All the quadratic equations So what we're saying is, some primes on them than others. And that's the conjecture, That hasn't been proved. But that is the conjecture. It seems to be the case. So there are lines here that primes as other lines. And the best we've found is a times as many primes BRADY HARAN: Cool, has JAMES GRIME: I can write I think I had it somewhere. BRADY HARAN: Yeah, I'd love The golden line. JAMES GRIME: This golden line call it, it's a quadratic It starts off quite But the number you add It's plus something huge. This square spiral is called But there's one that It's called a Sack's spiral. And it works like this. You write the square The square numbers are 1, 4, squared is 9, 16, So you write the square Then I connect them with what spiral like that. And then I would the other evenly space it. So it goes 1, 2, 3, And if you mark off the primes already sorted out for you, this And you can see the relations, more strikingly, I think. Look at these curves. These are the primes. BRADY HARAN: And obviously, there because those JAMES GRIME: Those are your the squares. So it looks like we have some formulas, anyway, that have So if we can understand these rich number of primes, then it conjectures in mathematics conjecture and the twin So prime numbers are not as There are equations to help And now I want to show you some find prime numbers. BRADY HARAN: So we'll have more prime numbers coming really soon James Grime-- unless you're watching this in stuff might already But you get the idea. But, I have a bit of a I've actually recorded some prime numbers before-- not with James Grime, but And I kind of half forgot about to editing it. This was, like, a year I went back and had a look, interesting. So I've turned that into Now you can wait for that turn the next few days, or if you have a look at it now. I've made the links available. The video's already up, so Thanks for watching. Plenty more videos, both of it quite a while ago, it turns still got to record. Really exciting stuff coming sure you've subscribed.