[music] The spirits of the dead, who stood in life before thee, and their will shall overshadow thee. [music] Edgar Allan Poe, the name alone conjures up images of ravens, beating hearts, disturbed A key figure of dark Romanticism, Poe was macabre, remembered for poems like "The Lee," and short stories like "The Tell-Tale But Poe is also considered the father of the C. August Dupin a predecessor of the likes Tales like "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" genius use of ratiocination. Arthur Conan Doyle, creator of Sherlock Holmes, Poe breathed the breath of life into it?" But perhaps the greatest mystery America's surrounding his own death. On October 3, 1849, Edgar Allan Poe was found delirious and in great distress. His trunk was missing, and he was apparently He had left Richmond a week earlier for New of Baltimore, half frozen and out of his mind. There are no surviving accounts of what happened enough lucidity to explain his condition. He was taken to the hospital in a stupor, spectral and imaginary objects in the room, He suffered four agonizing days until, according said "Lord help my poor soul," and expired. It was October 7, 1849. Edgar Allan Poe was 40. His death certificate has been lost, and no to wide speculation ranging from brain disease, But contemporary poet, Charles Baudelaire a suicide prepared for a long time." Despite being one of the most well-known writers There was little ceremony at his funeral, just a few minutes. He was buried in a simple mahogany coffin here in Baltimore, close to his grandfather Eleven years after burial, a cousin paid for have sprung from one of Poe's bizarre tales, yard where the stone was made, destroying And so, Poe's quiet grave remained unmarked. But this was not the end of Edgar Allan Poe's Decades later, in the 1870s, a local school a permanent monument to Poe created. In the fall of 1875, Edgar Allan Poe was exhumed, To properly identify him, the coffin was opened, condition--the shape of the forehead, one Poe was removed from his original burial place a place of prominence and honor in the graveyard, As the coffin was being moved, pieces of it admirers who were present for the event. Edgar Allan Poe's journey ended here. And this new tomb, Poe's final resting place, Edgar Allan Poe's legacy of dark tales featuring In this early Victorian era, there was a preoccupation But for Poe it was not a fashion he simply Perhaps his best-known work is "The Raven," and popular acclaim worldwide, though very Like a rock star of today, when Poe would people would call him The Raven, shouting To hear Poe recite "The Raven" was said The audience seemed almost to hear the evil afraid to draw the next breath lest the enchanted But there was deep personal meaning behind A common thread throughout the writings of presence somehow remains. In analyzing his own composition process for of a beautiful woman is, unquestionably, the is it beyond doubt that the lips best suited Poe was, himself, all too often, that bereaved He was a man who loved too deeply for the Women were to him the greatest sources of tenderness, of goodness, and inspiration. They were pure poetry... but they were fragile And every new love for Poe brought with it of renewed heartbreak. And so we have poems and stories, like "The the House of Usher," "Morella," "Berenice," Box," and "Ulalume," where a beautiful haunting the bereaved with a need to remember, Literary scholars, and even Poe himself, attribute to multiple women in Poe's own life, but for which... [creepy music] Who are you? [music] Eddy, my boy. Eddy. Mama. Eddy. MAMA!! "To the humane heart, on this night, Mrs. by her children, asks your assistance, and So read the plea for help that went out to of Eliza Poe. Her husband had abandoned her and their three The Mrs. Poe here was Edgar's mother, known but throughout the country. She was one of the nation's most popular but the sweetness of her singing voice, and "Mrs. Poe is a brilliant gem in the theatric She toured city to city playing hundreds of roles. But this was an age when acting was seen as Still, she was so beloved by the society ladies was answered, and she and her children were at the age of 24. "By the death of this lady," news articles of its chief ornaments." As a child, Poe saw his mother die on stage she always came back to life. Until that bleak December, when little Eddie come back. For a child that age, this would have been for the rest of his life, his writings would not death was real, or permanent. The young women who die in his stories, in "These are the full and the black and the Rising from the dead, just as Eliza had done Edgar was proud to be Eliza's son. He was proud of her work as an actress, and And however dim his recollections may have in his life and work. Edgar described her to be "as pure, as angelic be on earth." And in a way she was by his side for the rest she left him. Eliza's grave here at St John's Episcopal until 1927, when this marker was placed by to Eliza Poe, the mother of The Raven. Eliza? Is that who you are? Helen, thy beauty is to me, like those Nicean This must be Shockoe Hill Cemetery in Richmond. One of Poe's favorite haunting grounds, strolls here with his wife, Virginia. But as a teenage boy, it was another love And this is her grave. Jane Stanard, whom he called Helen, after as the most beautiful woman who ever lived. Poe began writing as a teenager, the beginning would describe as sort of prolonged mourning. That mourning began as a child with his mother, Jane Stanard was the mother of one of his but grew to love deeply, with all the affections One of his early poems titled, "To Helen," Poe said that he wrote this poem in his passionate my soul." She was an angel to Poe's forlorn and darkened It was not a romantic love young Eddy had as a giver of care and affection. In 1824 Jane began suffering from a death-like Poe mourned her like she was his own mother, Hill Cemetery, unable to "endure to think Edgar? Wait! Are you Jane Stanard? Perhaps... but there was a real mother figure And here she is, so close to Jane - Frances One of the society ladies who had come to ill was Frances Allan, wife of wealthy merchant, After Eliza's death, her children each went Little Edgar Poe was taken in and fostered adopted, was baptized as Edgar Allan Poe. In this comfortable upbringing, Edgar was prime his love of literature and reciting Fanny loved Edgar like her own son, and is Poe's affections were reciprocated, calling But Fanny was often sick. When Poe went off to the Army, letters home of Fanny, asking to send "my dearest love In 1829, when Edgar was around 20, Fanny's In her final hours she greatly desired to Frances Allan died on February 28th at the Edgar managed a military leave, but was unable at Shockoe Hill Cemetery. The grief of losing his foster mother was in that condition, and not being able to make Grief, it seems, would be Edgar's stock With the death of his foster mother, and having felt like a man without a familial foundation. John Allan was usually kind to Edgar in his a son, and their relationship, ever tumultuous entirely without the unifying force of Fanny John assisted adult Edgar on occasion, but the struggling author and poet to live out the comfort of his upbringing. By his 20s the house of Allan had crumbled, most famous Gothic tales. Eliza Poe was dead. Jane Stanard was dead. And Fanny Allan was dead -- the death of each previous. [a knock at the door] Lenore? Lenore... [a woman weeps and coughs] Where are you? Tell me... what is your name? Nevermore. I've been brought back to the Westminster Two of the women most dear to Poe in his life Edgar Poe was a young man now, and his lifelong him. "I have many occasional dealings with adversity," affection has been the heaviest of my trials." Around 1833 he moved in with his aunt, Maria source of familial affection for Edgar. Maria was the sister of Edgar's father, baby. The widowed Maria and her children were of felt he was part of a real family unit. He would call her Muddy, and soon she was his mother. She cared for and looked after Edgar like Not long before Poe died, he wrote a poem which reads in part: The angels, whispering to one another, None so devotional as that of "Mother," who was alone back at the Fordham cottage after his burial, depriving her the opportunity God have mercy on me, for he was the last Maria Clemm would outlive not only Edgar, here to the right of Poe, along with one of become a key figure in the life and writings Young, with large violet eyes, raven hair, an unearthly look, almost like that of a disrobed sweetness. This description paints for us a picture of He grew very fond of Virginia in the years her dearly. And in 1836, with Maria's blessing, they He 27, she just 13. Their relationship in those early years was Poe would affectionately refer to her as Sissy, years of marriage they didn't even share Whatever the nature of their relationship, "His love for his wife was a sort of rapturous And Virginia idolized Edgar, sitting close She would even channel what she learned from poem to him in 1846. In an acrostic poem, the first letter of each In the case of Virginia's Valentine, it Ever with thee I wish to roam - Give me a cottage for my home... Love alone shall guide us when we are there, And oh the tranquil hours... ...to lend ourselves to the world and its Ever peaceful and blissful we'll be. Virginia was Poe's greatest muse of this Eddy and Sissy loved to play music and sing the piano in 1842 would haunt Poe for the "Six years ago, a wife, whom I loved as in singing." "The rose tint upon her cheek was too bright, It was consumption's color--that sadly tomb." It was the deceptively beautiful rosy specter then as consumption. Being young and otherwise healthy, the disease it for 5 long years. During this period, she became mostly bed-ridden, recovery. Writing in the next room over, Virginia's ears that the grave beckoned his beloved. Poe experienced the torment of Virginia's She would seemingly die, and be re-animated, women in his stories... and just as his mother Poe's own words best describe this horrible "Each time I felt all the agonies of her I loved her more dearly and clung to her life [coughs] I became insane, with long intervals of horrible sanity. During the agony of Virginia's prolonged the specter of her impending death, like "Lenore," Death," "Eleanora," and of course, "The emblematic of the mournful and never-ending It was loss Poe had experienced many times experience again with his beloved wife. Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe, who not only physically died from tuberculosis in 1847 at the age as Poe's mother. He was reliving his earliest trauma. At Virginia's funeral, Poe refused to look she was. After the funeral, Poe took out a copy of I dwelt alone, In a world of moan, Till the fair and gentle Eulalie His blushing bride now buried, he returned had rescued him, scribbling into the margins Deep in earth my love is lying, After Virginia's death came works like "Ulalume," to the door of his deceased love's tomb, a bereaved lover, who lies down by the side "Annabel Lee" was Poe's very last poem, inspiration. The best-known image of Virginia Poe was this died. "The life still there, upon her hair - the Virginia was laid to rest in a cemetery near Poe sunk into a deep depression, medicating another minute. The illness and death of his wife were to a man." It would be just over two years until Edgar But he was laid to rest in Baltimore, 200 Decades later, the cemetery where Virginia and destroyed. An early Poe biographer reportedly visited sexton was about to discard Virginia's bones He claimed them, and kept her bones in a box finally able to be re-buried here alongside After the deaths of Edgar and Virginia, friend "She was the only woman he ever truly loved." Surely, this revenant who haunts me is Poe's Are you Virginia? Are you? Tell me who you are. Tell me who you are! TELL ME! Where have you brought me now, Psyche? Frances Sargent Osgood... I'll be damned. She's brought me to Mount Auburn Cemetery Fanny Osgood very much resembled both Eliza early signs of the same disease Virginia was And she shared the same name as Poe's foster Perhaps it was fated that Edgar should find With the success of The Raven, Poe's new the Literary Ladies of the time... a regular Among those who frequented these soirees was Frances Sargent Osgood. She was enthralled by Poe's readings of Poe too was most impressed by the talents no common order." As editor of the Broadway Journal, Poe would poems. After meeting in 1845, the two began a public side-by-side publication of verse: For one it loves how "wildly well!" I only know for whom it beats; Never tell! Beloved! Amid the earnest woes (Drear path, alas! Where grows My soul at least a solace hath An Eden of bland repose. And ever the fan of puzzles and cryptography, which each subsequent letter of each subsequent Frances Sargent Osgood. The love between Edgar and Fanny was principally He saw her as the intellectual feminine ideal. Even Virginia approved of the relationship, The grief over Virginia's illness had driven and Virginia believed that his friendship But their relationship wouldn't last. Poe didn't lose Fanny to the grave, but The gossip and scandal that erupted from their sakes, that they stop seeing one another. Fanny Osgood died at the age of 38 from tuberculosis hearing of Poe's death said to have hastened Her grave, like Poe's, features a lyre, wisdom and skills of a poet. The placement of the lyre here was inspired the Sounding Lyre," which was written as The hand that swept the sounding lyre The lightning eye, the heart of fire, No more, in rapture or in wo, Ah! nevermore! The lyre here was designed with 5 strings, Four strings were cut to symbolize the deaths One daughter, Fanny Fay Osgood, was conceived from her husband Samuel, and she was involved This has led some to speculate that little and that her death in the lonesome October real inspiration for Ulalume, published shortly The fifth string of the lyre was cut when Samuel Osgood was a painter, who painted a only known portrait of Poe painted from life. Frances? Is that you? [eerie music] Virginia was dead, Frances Osgood was no longer he had very little to live for. For the final two years of his life, he pursued attempt to fill the void that Virginia's He felt a great desire to re-marry, but also Would doing so betray the dead - the dead in wrath? [eerie music] Resting here in the North Burial Ground in a sophisticated, albeit eccentric woman, who of the era. She well knew of Poe's work, once recounting, in reading a story of his for the first time... I experienced a sensation of such intense he had written nor even utter his name. By degrees this terror took the character and fearful avidity every line that fell from In 1848 Helen was commissioned to write some Believing Poe would be in attendance, she Oh, thou grim and ancient Raven. From the Night's Plutonian shore, Wave and flutter 'round my door-- Sleeping on my chamber floor! Poe had not been in attendance, but later He responded immediately, sending her a copy by Jane Stanard, who you'll recall young Like Jane Stanard, Helen was an older woman In some ways she was, for Poe, the ghost of the dead "amid the entombing trees." The dead do not stay dead for Edgar Allan In May of that year, he composed a new poem, specifically for Sarah Helen Whitman, leaving and how his first sight of her had left him Clad all in white, upon a violet bank Fell upon the upturn'd faces of the roses, He found in Sarah Helen Whitman his mystical Around Providence where she lived, Helen was pagan dress and interest in spiritualism and Poe and Helen found harmony in topics such She would keep various memento mori, including and flowers from the graves of Keats and Shelley, In the fall of 1848, the two began a romantic "Ulalume" at the Atheneum Library. They would also stroll amongst the tombstones Cemeteries were popular destinations for romantic it was there that he would propose marriage In Poe Helen found an exciting younger man, She was hesitant for a number of reasons. Her mother strongly disapproved of the relationship, who looked down on Poe. Furthermore, Helen had a heart condition, She believed that the very act of making love Were I to allow myself to love you, I could and die. This once again presented Edgar with the real mourning. Yet he pursued her all the same, almost inviting did in his inquiries to the Raven, knowing Poe repeatedly invoked that species of despair Their courtship would continue to undergo agreed to a conditional engagement - the and that her mother approve. Neither condition was met. The tumultuous engagement came to an end two date. The opposition of Helen's mother, Poe's admonitions of her friends against marrying Poe pleaded with her, but feeling trapped, her handkerchief in ether, inhaled the vapors, As the ether took effect, Poe begged her for I love you. These were the last words she ever spoke to She did not die, but she lay there before the lost women who haunted Poe. Helen left Poe in intense sorrow, and never After his death she would continue writing And with a deep interest in spiritualism and attempting to communicate with the spirit [eerie music] Helen? This is nothing but dreaming. A dream within a dream... or a nightmare. WHO ARE YOU!? [eerie music accompanied by a heartbeat] What is written on the door of this tomb? Annie. Poe's mental and physical health deteriorated illness and death - "brain fever," it He believed, as did those around him, that believed, and perhaps wished, to be cured He needed, as very much a matter of life and than love" that he had had with Sissy. This he found in a young woman named Nancy At the same time that he was courting Helen, Annie, who lived in Lowell, Massachusetts Their relationship threatened neither adultery Annie was the ghost of his sweet Sissy, a Even if he married someone else, he had expressed Annie. And after the breakup with Helen, it was to Distraught over losing Helen and his myriad laudanum. He had written a letter to Annie asking that Poe survived, and would later chronicle this which treats death as a return to infantile But my heart it is brighter Stars in the sky, It glows with the light With the thought of the light His passion for Annie grew, telling Muddy, Do not tell me anything about Annie, unless But the truth was, he could not have her - any out of reach, as both she and her husband After the death of her husband, Nancy Richmond name Poe had given her. Are you Annie?... No, I don't believe you are. There was another, wasn't there?... A last, and a first love. [ethereal music] To understand Poe's last love, we must go the same. We're back at Shockoe Hill Cemetery in Richmond, Here too lies the woman known as the first Sarah Elmira Royster was 15 and Edgar Poe It was that, idyllic, fanciful kind of love Before Edgar left for university the two secretly They wrote to each other while he was away, engagement ended. The tragedy of their love story is that each But what really happened was Elmira's father and destroyed them. Conversely, he had discarded Elmira's letters Elmira's father strongly disapproved of He was an orphan, the son of an actress, disowned - four strikes against him in this era of Young Edgar faced heartbreak upon returning at Elmira's home, only to discover it was This would inspire one of his earliest poems, It tells of a bride whose blush belies the But this was not the end of their story. More than 20 years later, Poe would re-enter By then, he was a widower, she a widow. In 1849 Poe headed south to Richmond to give magazine, The Stylus, off the ground. He had a powerful sense of unease about this his last. But he went all the same. While there, Edgar sought out his childhood He showed up at her house here on Grace Street... a sort of full circle moment for Edgar as St John's Church, in view of the final resting And just as he had done as a teenager, Poe They were each to the other a powerful connection Poe would recite his poetry to her, assuring Poe gave her a ring with his name engraved engaged to be married in October. But just like their first engagement, this On September 27th Poe left Richmond for a The evening before he left, Elmira recalled, quite sick." She would never see him again. Poe was discovered a week later on the streets He was taken to the hospital, where he died Shortly before passing he made a reference to Elmira. Poe was committed to the earth before Elmira as Muddy, the opportunity to say goodbye. After receiving the terrible news, Elmira object to me on earth." In her later years, Sarah Elmira Royster Shelton Even her obituary bore the headline, "Poe's Elmira's grave remained unmarked next to 2012 when the Poe Museum here in Richmond It features an excerpt from Annabel Lee, Edgar as part of his own obituary. Elmira is considered one of the strong candidates this line, "she was a child and I was a But another line in the poem, "And so, all my darling -- my darling -- my life and my bride... Virginia... Virginia... Annabel Lee. It was many and many a year ago, in a kingdom you may know by the name of Annabel Lee... Annabel... Annie. And this maiden she lived with no other thought She was a child and I was a child in this Elmira. But we loved with a love that was more than An idealized love. Jane, Fanny. With a love that the winged seraphs of Heaven And this was the reason that, long ago, in a cloud, chilling my beautiful Annabel Lee, her away from me, to shut her up in a sepulcher in this kingdom by the sea. Virginia. The angels, not half so happy in Heaven, went A spiritual love? Helen. Yes!-that was the reason (as all men know, came out of the cloud by night, ... chilling and killing my Annabel Lee. But our love it was stronger by far than the many far wiser than we -- And neither the under the sea, can ever dissever my soul from I know who you are. You're not Elmira. You're not Virginia, or Eliza. Or Annie or Frances or Helen or Jane, or any You're all of them. For the moon never beams, without bringing [Gothic music] And the raven, never flitting, still is sitting, just above my chamber door; that is dreaming, and the lamp-light o'er And my soul from out that shadow that lies on the floor, Shall be lifted-- Nevermore!