Ian's story - Take one. My story. Take one. Great. My name's Ian, and I'm adopted. I was born in Waihi, and adopted out when I was about Waihi is a small town on the east Ian currently lives an hour away - Ian - How are you? You good? - Good to see you My earliest memories would be sitting up on a high chair in the lamb's brains I was raised in Ngaio, My relationship with my parents I didn't have any. I don't think I had any issues. I didn't think at any time that was amiss with our relationship. It was just normal to me. No, I didn't know any difference. Ian wasn't aware His adoption was closed, However, what was unusual was his adoption For Ian, during his early childhood years, he just felt like any other child. I think when I was adopted out, my adoptive parents probably, decided that maybe just sort of hide Life seemed to be quite normal with me. As normal as could be. Adoption never seemed Virtually never. My adoptive mother, At one time. She was secretary to the prime minister But when I came along, My dad was a travelling salesman, and before he was married, When he came to Wellington, with a stationery company. I think he probably got into the business at the right time He had some quite high flying customers, people that he dealt with in around Wellington. For Ian, his first clue that his childhood wasn't straight forward The question of why he was born Somehow the story did not ring true. My original birth certificate and we lived in Wellington, I was born in Waihi. And I asked my dad at one stage, Were we on holiday or something? I can't remember. So, thought of a bit odd. But later on, I thought it was a bit funny. I'm sure he would have remembered His dad's story of why he was born But Ian wouldn't know the real reason After high school, Ian's passion for cars And it wasn't long before Yeah, so I was mechanic in Wellington During that time I met Leigh, We were at a dancehall in Wellington, which was the place you went to - My friend's father said, It's a den of sin. - Really? - Yeah. He was pretty strict. So we went anyway. So that's where it all started. I was in Wellington at college for two years, and went flatting in Tauranga near Tauranga Hospital, Ian came up a few times and decided he liked the place. - Yeah - Must have liked you. Yeah. Te Puke is a small town A town not so far from in Tauranga. It was the late 1960s Leigh made the decision And it wasn't long until Ian And after one year of living together, Ian and Leigh decided to marry. When I left Wellington I just and drove to Tauranga to start a new life I had no reason really to leave My parents were probably But yeah, I just jumped in my car and went. Ian began a new chapter in his life. And soon after they had two children, And when Ian shared with Leigh surrounding his birth certificate, - I was talking and she let slip that Ian was adopted. I was stunned. It was like ... And she was horrified. She didn't know. And I didn'tknow if Ian knew. So I had to check out So it was quite some time before his adoptive father alone, Is it true that Ian's adopted? And he said, yes, but he must never know. So it took some time before It was eight years before One day Ian did one of his silly things I've got something to tell you. And he said, Oh I've got - She grabbed some tissues. I said to her something like, Are you going to cry or something? And she said ... - Yeah, maybe you and maybe me too. When you hear what I've got to say. And we're just standing there - What are you going to tell me? - Um. Yes. And then I said to him, - Now why I said that, I have no idea. It just popped out. Just waiting to pop out, So it did. - After hearing the news It took a while for Ian to But it wasn't until his that he could gain more information And after the passing Ian obtained a document - Maybe the first night All of a sudden I felt very alone because the people I knew who were my family Yeah, I felt really alone. I just had Leigh and the kids, that's all. I knew who they were. But I didn't know who I was. - Ian's daughter, Yolande - I was 18, and I'd already and I just got a phone call in my flat You know, dad's adopted. But I was really excited. It was just, I guess at 18. It was so exciting, like a mystery. And it was something new, But it was also exciting, the idea, oh, one of my first thoughts we might have some family. - So we applied for his actual birth certificate and it took a couple of weeks to come. - On the birth certificate my name on there was my mother was, and my father was Harry Chetwin. - Armed with the last name, Ian could now begin the search He started combing the phone Amazingly, after a few calls, And at the end of the phone Ian couldn't believe his luck. - Ted gave us his sister's He said she will know So we phoned her and it turned out - Ian began to map out Tracing them to the small town of Raglan. Only two hours away from where they live in Tauranga. Through Ted and his half sister Mavis, Ian quickly learned that his birth father However, his birth mother was very much alive. Finally, Ian had a strong lead to follow. - So I'd phoned my mother and I told her who I was And she said, yes, I am. So, that was quite easy. Quite unexpected. I didn't think it would go We were on the phone for probably 45 we're really good on, getting on quite We decided we maybe should go I discovered that she was living So we took a trip to the South Island and we phoned her And I said to her, And she said, oh maybe tomorrow. So she was sort of, I think she was - And we all got in the little car and drove down to the South Island and it was just I only just remember being excited, super nervous. But for me, I was just excited. So excited to meet my grandmother. Because, I mean, another thing is because both of our, grandmothers died when I was five, So I was just so excited to - Luckily for my mother, her husband was a So it gave her a lot of excuse. She didn't have to say anything because he probably answered She was a nervous wreck. I was, probably a bit apprehensive because when we went there, whether she would reject me or whatever, but ... Yeah, so I was a bit nervous. We got on fine together. - It wasn't like a grandmotherly meeting. She didn't have that excitement So that was, you know, I mean, But it probably was a bit disappointing that she wasn't But she did welcome us into her home and you know, talk to us and So I'm just glad for that. - I could tell she was nervous said she was going to go So I went with her. And I said, I can see And she said yes. And I said, so if it's easier for you if it's easier for you, - And the next day her husband picked me up and took me to the house And I knocked on the door. She said, come in. So I went in. She said, sit down. And so I sat down and she said to me, And I said, I've got And she said, oh, But that's all she said. And so we chatted for a while and, I knew at that time And I said to her, And she said, oh, So I thought that was fairly cold and callous, but ... - Still shellshocked from meeting his birth Ian tried to digest the news He then started on that quest or more family members. - After the initial meeting with my mother, communicated was by letter. She would write an occasional letter, with not a hell of a lot of information on it. It was just about and what her and her husband And, that's really about it. Although on one of the letters, called Kate Shaw, So we phoned her and living in a rest home in Rotorua. Just And she told us all sorts of stuff She was well known in the Rotorua area. - His meeting with his great aunt, Kate Shaw helped Ian piece together But more importantly, he could start which in Maori culture is prized His daughter Yolande also helped with the research of his whakapapa. (genealogy) And after hearing Ian's story, how far back Yolande could trace So your dad had But since then, connecting now how do you think this has now changed - For dad I think, for all of us, it just helps us to acknowledge who we are And just to feel like we belong and important for us, The first thing that someone asks you is, And when you don't know, it's So for us to to be able to say, yes, And that's just so valuable for us and, to just to know where we're from So Mokoia island is an island And it's quite a big island And that's where Te Ngakauiti was taken from. And that's where they also bury people, people of high status So it's pretty close to, And that's where her So that was important to us. When I found Te Ngakauiti's parents' names, I didn't know if I would be able to go so I was really amazed and and their parents names. And then we ended up finding Rangiwewehi which is our, the name of our ancestor So we're called Ngati Rangiwewehi. So our tribe is named after him. And then from him, to Tamatekapua, who's the captain So he's the first person from our iwi (tribe) or our tribe to come to So I could get all the way back to, Once I found Tamatekapua, Hawaiiki and our ancestors who lived there, really for our ancestral homeland that, think our ancestral homeland is around - Well, this family tree is, And how do you feel this - I think it just helps, helped him some sense of belonging and I guess it's like your identity. Having a real identity, he had a kind of, pretend identity So for all of us, that was, you know, a genuine thing. And other people could say to me, Those are your ancestors. And yes, those are real people. It was, that was how it - This obviously means so much for your father, - For me, it just gave me somewhere to belong. A sense of belonging. To know who I am. To explain some things about myself and then to be able who they are, where they come from, to be able to teach it to them. And for my brother and his kids as well. Yeah, that's why it's important to me. - When my daughter Yolande found out about our Maori heritage, And I felt very proud of the work She gave me a lot of feeling for my Maori heritage, which I'm very pleased with. The marae I am connected with is Tarimano Marae of Lake Rotorua beside the Awahou River, It's not every day that you find out of a different culture, I'm really taken in by that culture, and I really feel great that I'm part of that. You know what, I've finally felt like I've come home. Ian's incredible story shows me that it's never too late For Ian and Yolande, a real sense It's truly inspirational. And on that note, if you have an adoption You can also visit the link below I'd love to share your journey. And if you want to learn more about us at 'I'm Adopted, please visit