There are some suggestions that some with fecal transplant. One of the interesting for example, you can actually transplant and so you could have someone who is very and now that patient not only gets cured to Welcome to Target: Cancer podcast. Today I'm super microbiome and how it relates to possibly cancers that people have been wanting to know but had a couldn't be more excited about having Dr. Sandip of oncology to talk to us about those things. a news piece, I believe for CNBC. Is that right, Likewise. And so it's great to meet you. maybe we go by first name basis. Yes, I would love that. I I saw you when I walked in. You were who's this guy? Whatever. Didn't get to listen. you just started sharing all these things about and proteins and I think I learned about 30 seconds. And I was just fascinated. So I Although, with all do respect. I think John so we should, I only give credit That's it, he was, it was, it was three wise but today I, hopefully we have time to I was really excited is because a lot of people I've seen it a lot. What and how does what you. talked about some of those things like in the past this microbiome concept and all the really kind between the microbiome and the gut and the brain. get on this call with you, which is a visceral trigger that actually has something to in the interesting place to start, but then also how it things that give you this visceral reaction. My properties about the gut health that can also stuff or inflammation or cancer? First of all, how do like precision therapy trials and all kinds of I think it's a great question. And so I think right? And so we have as many bacteria in our body reside in the gut. Bacteria can also reside be protective. They can cause disease. As doctors, after an antibiotic that we have to deal with is microbiome issue. Also, patients with autoimmune fecal transplant, and the goal with that isn't to, the patient. It's to actually give good bacteria. from a. That can either help prevent disease or disease such as cancer and how we can understand they can help us with human health. I think is one and what can we do in our own livelihoods, our own to make sure we optimize gut health, I think is on. We're starting to see this in GI Health, but cancer, they're actually bacteria that have been common aggressive tumor types we have to fight you get. And so it's the worst case scenario. So which is a chemotherapy, and the patient gets all before the chemotherapy hits the pancreatic makes it inert. So it's the worst case scenario, And so can you actually take out those bacteria? be augment your immune response against the trying to investigate and better understand That is absolutely wild. I had a pretty Mukherjee, author of The Emperor of All Maladies can really hone away or basically block of your normal cells, the exercise know that bacteria was yet another mechanism know. Is that something that's mediated in or is it just an incidental thing that Yeah, it's a great question. In the same way when school, right? You have fungus associated and they a symbiotic relationship, right? Did the chemo create a symbiosis, right? And what was the the idea that at some point there were bacteria like the tree roots of pancreatic cancer. And growth. It is really an area that we're trying tumor types as well. It's not just pancreatic skin cancers. And it's not just a cancer story. from some neuroinflammatory diseases, for example, may be a bit controversial, but it's that folks have multiple sclerosis. And it's not the actual there's actually bacteria in the soil. And do right? We don't have a lot of evidence for it. allow you to not have that bad inflammation? We gone on in asthma allergies. And so there's Hygiene Hypothesis. And what it means is we grew my kids did that this morning, right? And a lot of worms, things like that. Before we to reacting to those foreign pathogens, But then over time we've cleaned everything that's good. It helps us with human health. right? It doesn't know what's foreign, right? And more asthma, because now our immune systems to have been, from an immune immunologic fighting bacteria and fungi and protozoans and that we need to be exposed to certain bacterial well? And so this is a whole kind of new world. Interesting. In a sense you're saying like you over evolution, they've been conditioned to have at least we say in the south: you get too place and restless and not enough to do then like it may be in a sense that, I remember my mom Arthur, which is still semi educational, and she's devil's workshop. And so she was like, stay have this propagation to like basically recognize theoretically can be a little lower to seek and overprepared and overready. And then sometimes fungus can be something that just looks just sitting there super excited. They're not they just throw down this cascade of now having an a very interesting concept. There's so much to triage it all. Because in the beginning, and stool transplants, and we know that you do stool It's just seeded it. So much that no matter what I got my steak in the ground and this is where basically fumigate the entire garden and in the setting. But I've heard too, not just to that even in those circumstances that you were increased sinusitis, I've read places that doing can actually make that stuff better. Chronic with stool transplant, which kind of fits with got too excited. Let's just change the, again, if And so my first question is that a thing? And then even doing a stool transplant, has there any been with neuropsychiatric stress or these like kind oh, it's all in your head, but it's not, and and that they, those can get relieved of right there. If you're somebody who's oh, I I mean that, those, that's just studies that tell reversed, just by having, a total change Absolutely. So great questions. I think the most colitis, right? With a fecal transplant. There bowel diseases we can improve with fecal and you're alluding to this, is let's say you you can actually transplant obesity from a donor who is very skinny and now you do a fecal gets cured to their C. diff, but they could gain we attribute to just host just our dna, just what in us. And it makes a lot of sense if you think right? Could it be that the type of bacteria crave sweets or crave X or Y or Z? And the these stool transplants, you can actually mentioning theoretically, or even things like really interesting. These are case reports and no we are fiddling. It's more than just transplanting ecosystem, right? And sometimes, when you format don't expect, right? And you're starting from something that's new. This happens in bone marrow I think a lot of us are more familiar with right? In which you need to have immunosuppression immune response. And so stool transplants can But they can have unknown impacts as well. And not only the diseases we know there's an impact, things you do not intend to transplant, you And it's because right now we just, you transfer there's no picking of the good bacteria there yet. And so if you're just transplanting Right? It's like the car games where you you have to like basically table your whole that's a gamble. Cause you gotta take all Absolutely ...learn more and be able to have different you. I literally don't know where to start. question is what are the most common things cancer or not are treatment or not, is yo, I and I swear like ever since, like I just you have some virus, some gastroenteritis or viral or if it was antibiotic. There is evidence course or possibly I guess a virus too, but could that have changed something in my is absolutely plausible that if you're told that an antibiotic course and especially long one, be the kind of introduction or NIS into what may No, absolutely and so the idea that right against, you're trying to find a specific thinking even about, probiotics and prebiotics, as refined as we would like. And so one of is antibiotics save lives. If you need the benefit is worth the potential risk. But things lingering, C. Difficile colitis is a that ideally are bad, but you also take out some the C. Diff and then it propagates and then a lot of this is post-viral or post-bacterial but there's no doubt that in my mind that friendly fire and losing some of those bacteria this right? From gynecologic health, right? antibiotics. And it's because you disturb that cranberry juice and things like that, right? And I think these things are very complex it's a stool transplant, or, oh, it's antibiotic That again, the idea is we want to get there. So bacteria while allowing the good bacteria to No doubt. And to that same point, it's with my cancer patients and those on treatment. right? Multi-agent. So like really knocks the fastest. That's the strategy. But our So then our white count falls, specifically our you sometimes have to give what's called empiric And prophylactic means, I know your counts can out of trouble by just covering it. Now somewhat immune compromised and getting. . I've gotten a question a couple Like I just, I think it's like my patients know that, so that always what is the merit and is it at least a reasonable antibiotics, that you're also somehow like exploit something else in the process. And the no clear answer, or maybe there is, I don't know it, should they be on probiotics? And I know should just say that. Nothing is binary, right? even that is way too broad of a question. But there merit to it? And I guess what's the harm of No, it's a great question in the I'm gonna go I think we'd all relate to it. So I think the step that means kinda at a population level, we know with a low immune system, maybe it's a hematologic factor support, G-CSF things like that. Is so prophylactic antibiotic strategy. So I think one You have to. I think the flip side though I is a right? Or pro bad bio. It's a mix, right? and you went straight to dirt, right? And are there weeds in the seeds you're planting as seeds of the grass that you want? It's a mixture. necessarily a pure mixture of the seeds of grass in there as well. And you hopefully it's way more issues we fundamentally have is probiotics. means more of, right? It could be good think that's one of the problems that we deal It doesn't factor in what yours is like. ideal. It's like an ideal world. You wouldn't the distribution is, and then tailor it. cocktail may be good for someone else and not for Absolutely. Your normal bacteria where you feel It's probably different than someone else's. And right? On what that just like we each probably evening routine, right? And so it's very likely probably have a normal state of bacteria. And then With antibiotics which are needed, or probiotics, get back to your set point, right? Yeah. And so It's like putting someone, everyone in the Yeah. It's that's crazy. Like we know this but it's obviously needs to be tailored to you. I'm curious, I created a big kind of storm on in the morning cuz you're crazy if you take it night showers and it's gross. You don't take it I take a shower at least in the morning, but depending on, you know what I do? I But I hear is bad for your flora and bacteria and microbiome of your skin today, I would hope not, but I think... look at your scanner. I think its worth the risk. Yeah, there you go. Exactly. Clearly false. your second point, so that was one point you said at all and all that stuff. And then what was Yeah. It really relates to diet, right? So the what can I do differently with my cancer answer is your body will tell you, do as much as overdo it, right? Don't be lightheaded, don't feel my diet? And that's a two-part question. One is, in and of itself, and two is what does my diet there's a big hematology conference called ASH, you were taught when you're training, order the a diet that has low bacteria in it. And I it because I'm like, you're gonna go outside this bacteria. I'm not so sure that, restricting calories and you lose fresh fruits and things makes a lot of sense. But that was, the dogma. that was just presented this month that showed you I've learned is I think we over steer in medicine for the cardiovascular patients or maybe in an in oncology, we way overdue dietary restrictions, Yeah, it has to be cooked through. You can't have fresh fruit or fresh vegetables. We don't need that anymore. I think many of right? But yeah, no, you don't need that anymore. want, which is important cuz when you're going with the toughest treatment you've probably ever want. There's comfort in that food, right? It's have to feel like, oh, I don't want that apple, Heard here first, ladies and gentlemen, the EMR when it comes to the Oncology diet should just be whatever the patient I always felt a little guilty by saying out recently. I think it's fine. Because, I wanna back up for a second because I was you said, basically how I, the one that really hit with bacteria, and how we talked about how they're how at the end of the day, there are organisms I'm told that should survived forever. Like in with that fungus root example it. When someone is this, but when you look at certain demographics you're like, oh, those people are generally the this, that and the other, which of course there's when it relates to GI specifically, how much, but how much of it is a genetic reason for the in your gut or, and how much of it is the house, the city and everything and is 99% saying can lead to obesity and neuropsychiatric the stuff that just really has to do with your but now of actually the GI stuff? Or is there what your gut environment's gonna No, absolutely. And I think, sadly, too called multifactorial. There's so many to add even one more wrinkle. We know that if you have a vaginal delivery versus a different, right? Because your route But you've already started and also, yeah. Exactly. And even um, breastfeeding initial microbiota. And so if things like that all these may have effects, Yeah. I still consider all that environmental, wise or genetically that is secreted from the the things that you are exposed to? Or is it that doesn't play much of it and it's so much c-section or not is it pretty much all that or guess synthesize the peptide approach that also No, it's a great question and it's not a question a certain HLA type, you're more likely to have a Exactly. Versus others. That we don't know. But we do know right? Those initial moments in your life have course, as you go on, right? You get, antibiotics infections? You had no antibiotics. All these you playing in the dirt, right? Are you getting you get exposed to, are you more or less likely all questions, you folks or folks are looking at. wired in your dna, right? Which is at the moment to speak, or, bacterially secondarily at the time And that's what's blowing my mind. Like I always thought, nurture was like 99%. It then I have kids and I'm like, they're totally household and one's extremely driven. And the time was just crazy. I'm like, there's way more mind and I'm trying to basically sink my teeth this podcast is telling me nurture doesn't just like duck follows mom. And you know what their proportions. That's why it's, the re's because of the cultural aspect. But really there's even more influential. And that's the nurture but just the environmental, what has gone through just all of a sudden flourish down the hill. know exactly what color they're gonna be and all is a very interesting concept and I'm sure, once Now you're gonna look at regions and like air, though these things can't survive, but here they dissecting like crazy what someone is exposed to, They only have a 7% body fat. They have a 27% of now to think about how many things that, that can To your point about antibiotics, I saw a study, degree of merit for it, but something, and it's had antibiotics in their lifetime and it was between five to 15 and then above 15 and you heard that? And I, and basically it said but you were in a category of like less than 10, as likely to have cancer. Is that, was that just Yeah. I think, you a lot of time right? Especially when you're making big and also the question is what's the actionability, And that's why I didn't like Yeah. So my point is the point I make to my cancer control, right? And what we can't control is if we don't do it willy-nilly, right? We, do testing. patients who need it, and that's the right thing for them, but for other patients, right? As well our diet, which I think increasingly, is really hypothesis has gone 720 degrees. And if sugar epidemic of diabetics, right, with cancer. And diabetes is a predisposing factor, and eating that, one candy bar or something like that When you describe that home, what you said, maybe not in research like you are and certainly strong of a corollary to, that's what causes lines that more or less were, congruent diabetics should have just an equal amount of pancreatic cancer should never be ones that much sugar. And you're telling me they are not Yeah. It's a very minor association for certain it. And oftentimes when we see our patients, their lives. They have certain foods if they're getting chemotherapy, there may only things they want to eat. And I think what neutropenic diet study, or. , frankly, the restrictive diets are not doing anyone any favors. weight loss by not letting folks eat what they especially when they're feeling a little down We wanna support the patient with feel better, make them feel happy. And calories It almost sounds like you're I feel this way now, if somebody were to ask look or opinion on what we're eating. That it was with ignorant. There's usually like audacious, say this is how we're gonna it's this easy and this is what's gonna happen. Like we've the more you learn, the wiser you become, the that it is way more complicated than these kind of thoughts and ideas we had. We've, if we've most obtusely the wrong way to do it. And so we because we know enough to know that it's way more balance and and having just like the number of more, you just air on the side of nature. And You nailed it. I think all things in moderation prescriptive on diets. And I get it as a patient, actually getting a prescription for a particular we put that energy into, aerobic exercise. all have a finite amount of willpower in a day, Like our patients are, maybe we don't need to as we're meeting a certain calorie count and we we wanna hit a certain calorie number. And then willpower there is on a little more aerobic Yeah. But I think every, things in moderation and these things. It's humbling, right? Because, diets for how many years, right? And we really did. We thought we were protecting we were just depriving folks of, the they want when maybe that was one of One of the most depressing things, and I know, is facing a truly just incurable for now, like will come out, but like, even in your lifetime, incurable stage four setting, the amount of in the comments that come from others that, don't realize like what it may do in stress and in live to say, you need to do this. You shouldn't it. And your very just edified and gifted, and I you, especially after learning all the things you but you are saying, and that's exactly what I've if we have learned thing in medicine, one thing the comments there's no money in it. It's studied because oh, it's not profitable. We have more complicated, that it would be more erroneous modifiable that would be steering you in the so we're not commenting. It's like we know you that or certain food types. And I hope anyone and really, and this, like in, in a gentle way. and doing this cause you mean the most and want like we're trying to learn, but I hope just in and the stress of trying to do that may be more cardiovascular fitness, aerobic exercise, bone happiness. Decreased stress, libido. Enjoy having patients to do all the things they enjoy and those I shouldn't say it out loud, but sometimes if they not to. I'm like, dude, it's your anniversary. important. And we know the things we know which ultimately the thing that's the best for emotional all finite and have little blocks. So that's a With all that said before you said that, I the beginning. This whole pancreatic cancer facilitation of a chemotherapy we know that goes Before you said that about how difficult it microbiome and especially around the tumor. who has a, a loved one that they really tell me more about that. What can we tell 'em to that if they wanna do an extra level? And I how is this being studied? Is it being injected What can someone do if they're interested in I think we don't know the biologic effect observed. It doesn't mean that the dose we Oh, yeah. Yeah. And so I think the standard dosing, we know clinically what happens with And nobody's gonna test anyway and I if you have that bacteria. So yeah. And so we don't have that testing yet. flip the bacteria right into actually, helping out Can you engineer bacteria? Can you make bugs as one of the key concepts is anytime we're treating their normal. What their normalcy is. And I doubling down on abnormal sea, right? Abnormal restricting travel, things like that where there I think the more I've learned, it's humbling, study that investigates changing someone's natural It turns out there's no difference. And so why not life be the people who they are? I just love my is, it has to be one of the reasons we almost the bat. Cause I feel the same exact way. A lot support doctors that just bash or invalidate seem incorrect on the surface comes, I believe, and that needs to be explored first and validated. to go natural, which means like I want to be free and a place for that. And if somebody was saying been more correct than doing a restrictive diet. students and everything. I'm like, you don't just you have a little edema because our kitties messing up something that has a huge cascade of it's my own opinions, but like that too, there's a does feel a little reserved or hesitance towards are both sharing you and I that there are things that we were sure in medicine. We're like, you're validated. And two, even us being humbled cuz we realize that sense of normalcy or let probably a really good thing. And so what we're trying to remove like less is more. That's the Sometimes more is less. Exactly. Exactly. More is less. And that's what something that's otherwise natural and beautiful. middle. Please, we validate the fact that these but the more we've learned, we're more that there isn't a role for somebody with it's needed during the cascade or Everyone's normal is very likely to be different. it during a patient's journey in, with their Yes, a hundred percent. And I, that's such a like two semi rapid fire questions. I don't even acid reflux medications, PPIs. Give me the is it bad to be over on it for over four likely cancer? Is it gonna what's, of course No it's a great question. And my view on PPIs is And could there be some slightly detrimental we had PPIs, people would have big ulcers. It'd just like antibiotics are. And so if you need 'em, their risks, in terms of osteoporosis and, know the long term consequences of that. But it's your best alternative, right? And so I think and wisely but not haphazardly. And I think which is, everyone's normal is slightly. And the So you should it's reasonable to not want to wasn't for something, altered this and that that's something that's reasonable. Go back to merit of this? Is there any association with that like that kind of stuff? Or is it. very there was a meta-analysis with one of them, and pulled from the market, so you can't even get even sure if that's the association or not. So my with cancer and, compared to the era when people ulcers in the eighties, this is, these are use 'em appropriately. Otherwise they can have, effect. That's just the nature of medicine. minor over a long period of time could add up to cancer risk with PPIs. We've seen osteoporosis it's just a discussion have with your doctor Yeah, I think that'll be the baseline. Like you because it's true, like it's just everyone's two, if I may: is there anything, and we did acid restrictions with Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee, bit tighter than just, floated theory, association eat more of. When it relates to a cancer, and of is there anything off the top of your head where at prostate, it seems not having red meats or exclusion or an active introduction may have some Yeah, no, it's a great question. There are for example, and gastric cancer. Red meat subtle risk. The alcohol and liver cancer What about the words of with cancer and getting cause I know some centers they're starting to actually add that I know people think we're not natural, are some of the things being looked at if you Yeah. So there, there doesn't seem to be any major There's some rare tumors like pancreatic tumor, a certain diet, but that's... 0.1% kind of the diet won't have a huge effect. Now It's controversial. It's gone back and forth. Really? Okay, good. Yeah, and so it's it's, I think the unfortunate great answer for it. And as time goes on, the diet is really just about trying to maintain protein than carb that, that makes a lot hit a calorie? The more protein you use to get that's great, but the choice should be you're is between nothing and carb, I'll pick carb any exactly. Exactly. I'm glad I just almost like stupidly saying, but of course you're the academic data. So I'm really glad that it's been supported. evidence-based. But the evidence is coming out if I may, I'm sorry. But we know when you look right? Versus olive oil rich diets versus like grains and fruits cuz they can't, mass produce I kind know the answer to this question by the the answered a lot of questions I asked, somebody I know what I'm asking, but obviously I want, I Is there any of 'em that seems to have a strong certain kind of cancer? Like I know the ones that stuff. But what's one that's yeah, that paleo is there anything off the top of your Yeah. To the best of my knowledge, most Mediterranean diet has actually really of this may be Mediterranean ancestry right? Where certain communities live and dietary plan. And that's probably a paleo diet or Atkins diet or something like that And so really, if you're normal is I'm doing a and you can keep doing it and you keep doing it God forbid, you have to do that. The key is your normal, and I think one of the things we've we're not actually helping as much as we think in The one thing I would say, I I would argue. not what you're talking about, but having a for a lot of Americans now, like what? They're is a very unnatural. So to your point, it needs to if you're not eating stuff with stems or it's like an all meat diet and all fast burning colon cancer. And that's something that pretty modifiably that will help 'em out. But, No, but it's a good point that, fiber right? That the kinds of things are probably helps us. And so I think it's to our ourselves, but also our kind Oh, speaking of that, ... cells and is the kind of debated evidence. I know but on cancer and stuff, is that because of they have a whole cascade of stuff. There's gastric or microbiome. Correct? It's more Absolutely. If you're gonna do turmeric, Exactly. You don't want it ... You shouldn't torture Is vitamin C and antioxidant? Absolutely, right. cancers. I wish. It would make our infusion right? If all we to do is give vitamin C right? And so I think it can be part of a meaningful impact? I don't know. in India to be way less. And unfortunately, this kind of is the inverse of my diabetic gonna be very subtle if it, if your normal it. But it's not a mandate. If you don't have to Yeah, a hundred percent. So indeed, it has I'm looking at the clock. I'm like, there's no people like myself want to just hear you speak, doing media stuff and everything. Is there some able to learn from you and get your updates? Yeah, absolutely. On Twitter, And on Mastodon, I'm at @Sandip, S A N D I get their thoughts. We don't have all the Excellent. Thank you so much, Sandip. just be natural? That was your message. less intervention. Do what? Do what's normal. Absolutely. Marie Condo our diets a bit, right? Love it.