If you were to get a pirated copy of Spyro: turn of the century, you'd be able to play Game crackers managed to bypass the game's other major release at the time, and since assumed this game was like any other one. For players trying to complete the game, though, Once those first few levels were over and travel system, Zoe would tell After that message, Spyro, the game, started At first, it's only a few small problems. An egg you previously collected was suddenly to an area you just went into was locked again. The game grew unstable, crashing more and gems. The game language would switch, you'd be system broke entirely. The game became a nonsensical labyrinth, being worlds at every new area you enter. It's like the game itself was rotting from make you stop playing it. The idea of games taking life has, for the to people. I don't think it's controversial to say that However, there are times when a game, even The Halo series is known for many things, me was the fact that you could actually kill This is true both in the multiplayer and the catches my eye. In the mainline series of games, you play and near perfect super soldier who has an galaxy wide threats. Despite Master Chief being a silent protagonist, That being said, Master Chief is not the person For the story of these games, outside of cutscenes, All main characters are piloted by us, as a weird gap in storytelling that these games Master Chief wouldn't kill his allies, but still there, so the games give you some leeway. You can kill a few marines and pass through that you're just looking for wanton murder, The rest of your allies decide to kill you, the time succeed in the process. Technically this is an ending to the story dying in the line of duty is, but this ending Master Chief, the character, does not go rogue, this isn't Master Chief at all. This is transparently the player going rogue, it. Most narrative games have this sort of invisible You're given room to act like the character line is never crossed. But the moment you stop pretending to be the no control over your actions. And as time has gone on, games surrounding and character, have become more and more popular. Many games center around rebelling against or developer, but it's always, to an extent, The Stanley Parable is one of the most meta a commentary on video game structure, and narrator's wishes. This is an entire genre of video game, ones and clever ways, but, what's important to the button&quot;, it actually wants you to press If you follow all of the narrator's instructions ending, showing a kinda bland and obvious to work. Every other ending in the game requires you done something the narrator didn't want you And despite the game being as meta as it is, No matter how aware of being in a video game And, through this formula, the game is an It's silly and lighthearted and clever. It's self awareness is a tool to entertain weird office world of the Stanley Parable. Let's compare this to another game, an indie Depression Quest is a text-based adventure of choice. When you go to the website, you're given saying, "Depression Quest is a game that literal way. This game is not meant to be a fun or lighthearted From your very first choice, you're presented would actually help you, options that would As your depression worsens, fewer and fewer there but out of reach. The game could have simply given you the actually you, the player, that these cannot be picked.The the person in the story does as well, but You have three status bars in the game, "You a therapist, You are not currently taking These can all change over the course of the your future choices. The entire experience is a desperate crawl becomes harder and harder to crawl, and as suffocating. "You are profoundly depressed. You are barely functional, on days you can't At that deep down, the game almost ceases You and your character simply subsist, barely events happen to you. However, while it seems that every option no way out, the game does have a number of Those status bars can be changed. You can seek therapy, you can get medication, Talking to someone about your problems, scheduling of fantasy. Sometimes the best choice is to lie to a family for you, sometimes the best choice is to be You pick and choose your battles, and fight is still bad. Depression Quest is deeply aware of the role the player feel crushed by their lack of real three years after the release of Depression or, Solitude. You start the game dropped into a small apartment. A gentle guitar song is playing through your to interact with nearly everything in your On your bed is a diary, with an entry reading, Yesterday I had a wonderful night with that fears and insecurities. He left and will not come back. I'm hurt and scared. He doesn't need me like this, no one needs I cannot change. I will spend some more decades here, until black spot... I want to see him again." There's a few more notes, some objects to left to do becomes glaringly obvious. See what's outside of the apartment. One last warning tells you that you can order are overrated, but none of that matters to here. The character does. However, right now, we're in control. With all the content in the room gone, you You are allowed to leave the room, but all As you approach the giant looming text, noise source: a mix of a looming bass-y drone, indecipherable And this is the entire game. A few let's play channels covered Solitude really see them struggle to hit the 10 minute elaborate processes to get across the feelings no such intentions. To get across the feeling of isolation, most the character having the ability to open it, be miserable, looking around outside would playing. But Solitude lets you, the player, open it. In Halo, when you go against the desire of you back to the previous save. In Solitude, we can leave while the character, And as a result, we see the world that our can see. An empty void of anxiety and misery. Anatomy is a game about a sickness. You are placed, without explanation, in a Your goal is to collect tapes. In fact, the game itself tells you to collect reasoning. And so, you do. With each tape, you're given a monologue maybe a scientist, lecturing on the importance After each tape ends, you're sent to a new layout and structure, all while you hear more The monologue goes out of its way to compare Several entries are dedicated towards comparing a house, a comparison that seems out there continues... The house, in this game, is equivalent to Even beyond the idea that your entire experience the house, when it decides to reject you, itself. A few tapes in, and suddenly the illusion Models become visibly displaced from where of reality. The volume of the tape recorder suddenly spikes you corrupts and falls apart. The tapes themselves become disjointed, the in the air, and once you're finally directed the house, the game itself crashes. If you reboot it, you once again hear the that you're choosing to re-enter this place. You spawn in the bedroom, the mind of the corrupt. A red hue covers the game as long connected out of existence. Clumps of moving tissue crowd the hallways, The structure of the house, its objects, are Only the layout remains, and, after you run to explore. The basement. As you look around, you find the staircase speaker, voice coming from the walls, has If you pirate Spyro: Year of the Dragon, you an invading force. The game, understanding what you need from Its organs, its functions slowly become difficult The music disappears, the world is made unstable, consumes you whole: destroying all of your with absolutely nothing left. The fear that anti-piracy measures inject primal. It's a reminder of the true relationship to make us forget it ever existed. The knowledge that a video game knows that doesn't want you to be. In the relationship between the player and we're not the only ones that suffer from Spec Ops: The Line released in 2012, the same 2, but it interpreted the shooter genre in The gameplay of Spec Ops: The Line isn't for a good reason. The game, for the first time player, is meant shooter story where you play as a borderline That city in particular is Dubai, with the disastrous sandstorms. While the elite of the city evacuated in secret, endless desert and cut off from the rest of being able to cut through. You control Captain Martin Walker, the leader a transmission 2 weeks prior from the heart John Konrad. Konrad was a decorated war hero, and the leader When the disasters began, on the way home to help with evacuation. However, when they were told to evacuate the too much to bear, he and the rest of the 33rd After months of silence, though, the transmission Your mission is to search for survivors, one a group of hostile insurgents a few minutes After dealing with them, you get a live distress 33rd, but you're just barely too late to One of their own was kidnapped, McPherson, And, seeing far more people alive than you Walker makes a decision: to see what's really Confusion is a common theme running through The game opens in the middle of a helicopter falling chopper as it cuts to black. The majority of the game is spent getting it's not the exact same sequence. Once you take off and you find yourself back While this game eventually becomes surreal, at any other point. That helicopter scene isn't a fourth wall events truly are happening again. According to lead narrative designer Walt repeating isn't an easter egg or nod to game doesn't jump around in time at all. The first helicopter crash did happen before A narrative rule revealed to fans after the into what's really going on. At the end of each and every scene, it will If it fades out to black, the next scene will If it fades to white, the next scene will The interesting thing is that the intro to and the very first fade out we ever see... starts to happen. While the first half of the game plays as really cool location, the entire tone and an instant, with one fatal mistake. While you get into several firefights with trying to kill them for going rogue, an actual His name is Agent Gould, and he seems to have citizens as possible. As you go to meet up with him, though, he's can learn his and the CIA's plans to do All you get from his body is a map leading The most natural assumption in a game like taken, and so Walker and the rest of delta Sneaking in, you find yourself next to a mortar and incredibly cruel chemical weapon. Seeing no other way to clear out the place it, and blanket the entire base with it, killing Once you drop down into the encampment, though, Gould wasn't trying to take the base. He was trying to free the civilians trapped Beyond this point, you are no longer playing Konrad, the colonel you've been trying to makes an appearance in the form of a voice The Gate. In contrast to the war hero Walker knew him Far more evil than anything or anyone else as your hallucinations become more and more The idea of choice is brought up over and in this game. In the moments just before the white phosphorous The interesting thing about this interaction on who is being spoken to. Walker has no choice. We've been controlling him since the very But once we approach the mortar launcher... Just like with the helicopter scene, Walker in, somewhat. While it's never said explicitly, this game and the character, and uses that relationship Many people have analyzed this game under subverting the military hero power fantasy shines an even brighter light onto the hellish According to Walt Williams... again... Walker is trapped in a hell of his own creation, Walker is trapped in a hell of the video game's It's easy to forget that the original objective if there were survivors, a task accomplished If Walker did what he was supposed to do, In order for Spec Ops: The Line to happen, to be the hero, or he wouldn't exist at He and every other video game protagonist millions and millions of times all over the and allies all as a means for our entertainment. Spec Ops: The Line being a video game is also of control. The game is a linear story with some minor in the long run, but the form of control we, to keep playing. The guilt we feel is not just for the suffering but also the guilt of knowing that we still When we see the button prompt to launch that That choice isn't to change the story, but Because, the only thing that happens from The game has a few more twists and turns before destroying all the water reserves in Dubai, stuff, but after the crash, the game abandons Figuring that Konrad would put himself at and the rest of the delta force make your However, your two friends, the last anchors end. Lugo, right after the crash, is taken away being blamed for all the chaos that's unfolded overrun and murdered. Right before you and Adams get to the base Adams, refusing to surrender, gives you the off screen. However, after he's taken care of, the rest leaving you entirely alone with Konrad's The firepower that killed Adams is suddenly gone, of the tower. Despite being defenseless, the supposed last you, asking you to meet Konrad upstairs. However, once you meet Konrad, the truth to He's dead. He's been dead, and has been for a long, The Konrad who Walker's been speaking to, of his problems on, never existed. The justification for murdering all of what's relentless monster, never existed in the first You launched a mortar that murdered 47 innocent Konrad speaks to both Walker and us... At the end of this conversation, you're To shoot Konrad, to continue to blame someone yourself. The game knows that shooting Walker isn't you and Walker are on screen at the same time You control his actions. You dragged him through this hell. And, as your final choice, you can choose Because, from the very start of this game, entertainment. He never had a choice in the first place. Ultimately, most games want to be played. Even acting at your worst, most games will with anything, but that makes the games that Obviously, these games are not sentient. They don't have real wants or desires, but And yet, we still get immersed. And so, when we're faced with the game itself speaking to us directly, for just a moment, Thanks for watching, and have a nice day.