A Woman Drank 4 Liters Juice Everyday For 3 JL is a 45 year old woman, presenting to the emergency room with She tells the admitting physician that she lost Years ago, JL noticed her eyes would hurt it was pain. Her mouth was dry. She had never been this tired in her life. And she In the hospital, the physical exam, and a blood saliva are made from water. The brain needs she doesn't have enough water then she will the doctor told her, &quot;I think you need to a day for women.&quot; She doesn't need to worry, as she was discharged from the But when JL got home, she drank more water than JL had always enjoyed orange juice. Thinking that her dry mouth was fixed. Even if it was water. A glass before bed, would help her sleep started becoming several liters, everyday. JL thought her dry mouth was fixed. But the dryness never really went away. started feeling really tired all the JL started noticing a gnawing sensation in her and that for some reason, something was happening This anxiety started eating away at her and One evening, after dinner, JL's stomach like nothing she had ever felt before. panic attack, as she goes to the At examination, the medical team finds that JL she wasn't able to keep anything down and A blood test finds that JL has hyperglycemia. to Glucose, or sugar. And -emia meaning presence been consuming 4 liters of juice every day well, juice has a lot of sugar, so this don't know she's been drinking this juice. She they also find that she has acidemia. Acid The body's cells are constantly functioning, requires energy. And the process of A byproduct produced during metabolism is Acid. If JL has hyperglycemia, and sugar is used to might have gone wrong with her metabolism, causing mean that her body is, for some reason, making The opposite of Acid is Base. The body balances did JL's body suddenly make a lot of acid, Well, the kidneys maintain Acid Base balance that JL's kidneys are shutting down, so causing an accumulation. Or, they might the medical team tests JL's urine, they find a and this gives them some more When you eat, food quickly breaks down into small intestines into the liver and then into the the pancreas releases the hormone insulin to shove used for energy. The problem is, during times of of hormones. Insulin is a rest-and-digest hormone, and that takes precedence because it's often an it. The liver is forced to release stores of liberated as an additional energy source for the and these fats aren't broken down correctly. but also dehydration, explaining most of This doesnt happen to healthy people. When an underlying problem with insulin for some time. record of diabetes. No one knew about her 4 Liters did find, was that JL had pancreatitis. -itis organ that produces and releases insulin, Do you remember extreme stress? Well, responding to the pancreas. Something, or the digest itself. And in the ensuing chaos, the In response, JL's body released hormones to alternative energy sources instead of sugar, causing ketoacids to spill into the acidosis, abdominal pain, dehydration, and kidney If her problem is dehydration, give her or release enough insulin relative then give her insulin. As the days pass with this She was mostly on IV fluids, so her mouth was home. Things seemed like they were getting better. One morning, JL was brushing her really hurt. There was bleeding all over but she kept drinking her juice everyday. wasn't just her muscles, it felt like pain At the dentist, JL had multiple cavities. her teeth at night, and THEN go to the sugar stayed in pockets inside her producing acid that decayed her teeth, producing those teeth needed to be extracted. When noticed it was unusually dry. After her teeth were but she had trouble swallowing the Nothing was taken. As the days passed, JL started trouble breathing. She felt her heart was On the couch, napping. JL was dreaming, pain seared through her body. It felt like a worse and worse, she called for an ambulance Portioning what you eat and drink helps curb is ordering from this video's sponsor Factor. approved meals right to your doorstep. They offer week to fit a variety of lifestyles, from Keto to If you're looking to mix things up, you can add week. I've been a subscriber for more than a year time saver for all of us. It's not just saving a meal is so much shorter. That's great for when the food is delicious. Factor offered to sponsor link below and use code EMU50 to get 50% off your orders! That's code EMU50 at FACTOR75 dot com next month of orders! I highly recommend it. at the scan of hip and it appears that JL has ages into elderhood, but, JL is only 45. She's not at her age, shouldn't break a bone. The medical can cause bone pain and sudden, unexpected from a minor fall, at this age, are chronic A blood test finds that she has a huge much more than normal. Given all of this could mean that she has some When they listened to her heart beat, they heard that something is happening to the blood as its swelling on her left side that was causing her waves into her chest to take a look at her heart, where the heart connects to the aorta, the largest everywhere in the body. This vegetation is a leaking its contents into her bloodstream, meaning heart. This infective endocarditis was likely from teeth pulled, AND the bacteria migrated from her a valve in her heart, but, this kind of infection minor fall, at her age. So, something Doctors took a closer look at the scan of her hip. her chest to see her heart, they noticed that it complete fractures, but rather, it looked like her reduced. And given that she has additional JL has osteomalacia. Osteo meaning bone. because it's from Greek Malakos meaning soft. Bones are made from Calcium and Phosphate. At any body is undergoing the process of forming new become low in the body, bone becomes Sometimes, hypophosphatemia, low phosphate D deficiency. This might be happening to JL, too much phosphate when there's excess sugar it comes out in the urine, both of which metabolic acidosis, like JL had had when she can also force the kidneys to eliminate Calcium, Because her hip fracture wasn't complete, she did need surgery to repair the heart valve was started on antibiotics to destroy the able to successfully do the repair. And she isn't going to fix her bones. It isn't going to next time. And, it isn't going to fix her kidneys, In the recovery room, JL's husband brought to talk to her, he noticed the excess bottles. here where she told him about the 4 liters of her mouth was constantly dry and water just but, it never really got the feeling where the medical team got the final Do you remember the possibility of or, cancer? Well, endocarditis wasn't a and Hepatitis C-- chronic infections that weight loss. But she didn't have any of two of the doctors remembered when JL had figured out exactly why. But is how is Pancreatitis is the immune system the immune system may have initiated If the medical team never fully and JL had been complaining about extreme dry multiple times because of those, then autoimmune Looking closer in her blood, they found indicating that the immune system in JL's body she just had a life threatening infection, it means she isn't making saliva. The medical look at underneath a microscope. They found confirming JL's immune system had been attacking saliva production and forcing her mouth to become it means the immune system has attacked her Putting all of this together, JL has Primary the immune system attacks the salivary and exactly what causes the immune system to target appears more often in women versus men, and due to environmental or genetic factors, but like many other autoimmune problems, we don't know for sure. What we do know for sure, is that the dry mouth prompted her juice consumption excessive 4 liters daily. The massive sugar load, body. And adding sugar to a dry mouth rapidly and the ensuing poor oral hygiene can cause immune system might have caused her pancreatitis by the constant inflammation and started leading to a chronic metabolic acidosis, and her body. And without addressing her poor oral hygiene and tooth decay resulted hip that gave everyone a more clear idea the only things that can happen in Sjogren's As the medical team were able to get clarity her treatment with her. Medicines can like corticosteroids, can come at the cost worsen her bone weakness, her hyperglycemia, and on a different disease modifying anti-rheumatic should help limit immune system activity and for her dry eyes, she was given drops to be applied regularly, and she mouth without sugary or acidic drinks. A and energy drinks was directed. Small sips of swish and spit multiple times daily to relieve. difficulty in maintaining good oral hygiene, It's not very common that people have have an autoimmune disease, the sugar from to cause problems not only inside your but also can and will cause After getting the medical care that she the treatment of her eyes, oral hygiene, Thanks so much for watching. Take