- In 1901, was discovered in a shipwreck 3D x-ray scans have revealed it contains 37 interlocking bronze gears, allowing it to model the and predict eclipses decades in advance. Constructed around 100 or 200 BC, the Antikythera mechanism represents a sophisticated early computer. The likes of which would not be seen again for at least a thousand years. Now, of course, this computer didn't work It works by analogy. The gears were constructed in such a way that the motions of certain dials are analogous to the It is an analog computer. - Here is a simple analog computer for adding two numbers together. If you turn the black wheel some amount and then turn this white the gray wheel shows the In contrast, this is a where you can add two single bit numbers. So zero plus zero equals zero. Zero plus one equals one. And one plus one equals two. These two devices between analog and digital computers. Analog computers have a continuous range of inputs and outputs, whereas digital only works With analog computers, are actually represented like the amount a wheel has turned. Whereas digital computers work on symbols like zeros and ones. If the answer is, say, two, there is nothing in the computer that is 'twice as much' as a one. In analog computers, there is. For thousands of years, people used analog devices like the Antikythera alongside digital devices like abacuses. And up until the 1960s, the most powerful computers on the planet were actually analog. Digital computers exploded onto the scene with the advent of And now, almost everything is digital. Most people have never even But today, that may all be changing. Moore's Law, the idea that you can double on a chip every two years, it's reaching its limit, because transistors are Simultaneously, advancements are straining the capabilities The solution to these challenges may well be a new generation (soft upbeat music) - One of the humans have faced for millennia Napoleon and his men nearly due to a miscalculation And sailors routinely to bring their ships into Most coastal locations on earth experience two high and but their exact timing varies And this is partly caused by local factors like the depth of the sea bed and the shape of the shoreline. In the late 1700s, to describe Pierre-Simon Laplace derived a set of complicated They had no analytical solution, so at that time they But in the process of Laplace made a key finding. Tides are driven at only a few specific including the moon, the sun, and the eccentricity of the lunar orbit. Each one of these factors of a particular amplitude and If someone could figure out how to correctly combine well the tides could finally be predicted. It took nearly a century. But in the 1860s, William Thompson, later Lord Having completed several voyages to lay the first he developed a fascination with the sea. And subsequently, he threw into measuring and predicting the tides. Tide gauges at that time used a buoy to record the height of Kelvin set out to with the frequencies could add together to produce The key was to apply the Joseph Fourier, who had shown into a sum of sine waves. Most English scientists but Thompson was enthralled by it. His first paper, published at While it was straightforward to apply Fourier's the computation required was enormous. First, divide the tide curve And for each interval, multiply the tide level by a sine wave with the frequency of interest. Add up the area of all these rectangles, and divide by the total time. And this gives you a single coefficient, the amplitude of the sine Then you have to repeat the with the same frequency. Kelvin found that to make he actually needed 10 So that is a lot of to characterize the tides For each additional location, you have to perform this And this is only half the problem. Once you have the amplitudes and phases of the sine functions, you have to add them up to - Lord Kelvin spent years analyzing and predicting tides by hand. Then he had a stroke of inspiration. Could you design a machine to carry out these In Kelvin's words to the resulting analog computers were in use for nearly a century. They even played a critical role in the outcome of World War II. - Kelvin started adding the sine waves together, given you know their He knew he could create sinusoidal motion with a device called a scotch yoke. It extracts one dimension But to make a tide prediction, he needed a way to combine He needed a mechanical Stuck on this problem in for a meeting with the main the British Association. On the train, Kelvin bumped into a friend, inventor Beauchamp Tower, to Towers suggested he used Wheatstone's plan of a chain passing around And this was exactly Kelvin was looking for. By attaching a pulley to each scotch yoke and running a weighted cord around them, he could mechanically add at once. He scribbled down the entire plan for this predictor machine He pitched it to the British Association, and secured funding to build If you knew the relative contributions of different frequency components, Kelvin now had a machine to of predicting future tides. This was a great leap forward. Four hours of cranking the handle yielded a full year of tidal predictions. But for many years, the harder half of the problem breaking apart an existing tide curve into its component frequencies. To automate this step, capable of multiplying the and then taking its integral. What would such a device even look like? With his older brother, James Thompson, Kelvin came up with a It consists of a ball on a rotating disk. Due to the rotation of the disk, the further the ball is from the center, the faster it spins. If the ball is at the it doesn't turn at all. And if it's on the left side, it turns in the opposite direction. Now the motion of the ball via a roller, which moves a pen up or down So the way it works is you trace the function with a stylus, and the stylus controls the and hence its speed of rotation. This is transferred through which plots the integral Now to decompose a tide curve, we don't just wanna We first wanna multiply it by a sine wave of a particular frequency. And the way to do this is to make the disk rotate back and forth at that specific frequency. Now the rotation of the ball depends not only on but also on how the disc You trace the tide curve with the stylus, which moves the ball back and and the roller sums up the times the sine wave. Simply divide by the total Several of these ball and disk integrators can be connected in parallel with each disk oscillating to calculate the coefficients for multiple frequency Kelvin's analog computers revolutionized our Tidal curves from anywhere in the world could be turned into a set using the ball and disk harmonic analyzer. And the resulting sinusoids to predict the future tides using his scotch yoke pulley machine. - [Derek] Kelvin's harmonic analyzers were the basis for a called the differential analyzer, and his tide predicting machines were used well into the 1960s. In fact, they were later overhauled to include 26 frequency components and used to plan the - The Germans to come at high tide to minimize the time Allied soldiers would be So they installed millions of obstacles that would be underwater by mid tide, many with explosive mines attached. But the allies spotted the Instead, they plan to begin This would allow demolition teams to first clear channels then the main forces could as the water rose. This would also give to depart without getting beached. The low water times were different at the five landing so the invasion times were staggered according to the tide predictions. - This wasn't the only in World War II. Dive bomber aircraft would directly toward their targets and their rapid descents made them very difficult to shoot down. So the U.S. began searching for devices to automatically aim guns at dive bombers. Most of the proposed solutions fell into one of two categories. Some were analog machines Others were essentially fast calculators. Mechanical calculating had been around for millennia, but they were far too slow These new calculating by using electrical pulses. The committee considered after the pulses they used. But member George Stibitz proposed a more general name: digital, because these machines or digits. And this is the origin of But digital would have to wait. Of all the proposals and from David Parkinson won out. At Bell Labs in New York, Parkinson had been working on a device to chart telephone data called It used a variable resistor to control the motion of a pen. One night, after hearing reports of the harrowing allied Parkinson had a dream that (radio tatters) (mystical music) &quot;I found myself in a gun pit &quot;A gun there was firing occasionally, &quot;and the impressive &quot;brought down an airplane. &quot;After three or four shots, &quot;one of the men in the crew smiled at me &quot;and beckoned me to &quot;When I drew near, &quot;he pointed to the exposed &quot;Mounted there was the &quot;of my level recorder.&quot; When he woke up, Parkinson realized the device he was could be scaled up to He shared this idea with his supervisor, and after receiving they set out to make Researchers at Bell Labs had recently invented an called an operational amplifier or op-amp. It could perform mathematical like addition and multiplication. They used these op-amps to that could solve the ballistics equations for anti-aircraft guns. Using radar and optical altitude and direction of enemy planes, the M9 Gun Director, as could rapidly calculate and few setting. Potentiometers were used the gun was pointing. This was not the first but it was an important one. In World War I, It took an to take down a single airplane. In 1943, after the invention of the M9, it took an average of only 90. During the war, the U.S. If you break down their the third largest single expense was the development and production of an incredibly complex called the Norden bombsight. Unfortunately, they didn't - Designed by Carl Norden, the Norden to enable high precision airborne bombing. It implemented 64 different including one that compensated for the rotation of the (bomb exploding) The Norden was one of the of the war. To prevent the technology American bombardiers carried handguns specifically to destroy it But despite its hype and funding, the Norden didn't work as advertised. With over 2,000 fine parts, it required extreme The problem with analog computers is that the physical device So any inaccuracy in the components translates into inaccuracy And since there will always be some slop in the connections between parts, if you run the same calculation twice, you won't get the exact same answer. In the American campaign against Japan, bomber crews using the bombsite were unable to destroy critical And ultimately, the U.S. abandoned its and instead blanketed whole As the war progressed, digital The digital and electronic of Bletchley Park in the UK were critical to breaking German codes. In the United States, the military invested and expensive digital It was designed to speed up the calculation of At the time, these were computed using the analog mechanical computers based on Kelvin's harmonic analyzer. Although not finished until after the war, ENIAC demonstrated the It's considered by many to - What really opened the door to this digital revolution was the discovery made by Claude Shannon in his 1936 master's thesis. He showed that any numerical using the basic building Two values, true or false, and three operations and, or, and not. This makes digital computers the ideal versatile computing machines. In contrast, each analog computer is an analog for only one type of problem. Furthermore, since digital computers operate on ones and zeros, they are more resilient It would take a large error or vice versa. Whereas, even small errors and ultimately swamp the signal. So these days, everything is digital. Our phones, computers, even TV and radio is now The advantages are obvious. Since digital devices operate on symbols, usually zeros and ones, And repeat the calculation, They are robust to noise. Plus, since only a few to perform virtually any computation, those components have been making digital computers the ideal universal computing machines. So you would think analog a relic of the distant past. But, analog may now be making a comeback. There are startups actively Why is this happening? What could be the benefit of analog? I wanted to put all of But the story is too good so that is coming up in part two. Be sure you're subscribed to the channel to be notified when that comes out. (soft upbeat music) I'll give you a hint about the sequel in this section of the video, which is sponsored by Brilliant. Brilliant is a website and to help you learn STEM concepts. For the sequel to this video, it would be a good idea to brush up on artificial intelligence, which you can do with Brilliant's courses on neural networks. Here you can analyze how a neural network I also recommend their calculus courses, which are highly interactive. What's great about Brilliant is how it gets you to step through topics, answering questions as you go. In that way, you can't trick yourself into thinking you already because you're constantly to the test. Personally, I find their which they should be in order But if you ever get stuck, there's always a helpful and more in-depth if you want them. As the holiday season is upon us, an annual subscription to Brilliant makes an awesome gift for any And whether it's for you or someone else, Brilliant is offering 20% to the first 200 people to sign up. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium. I'll put that link down So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.