Transcriber: Nadine Hennig I want to take you back My husband and I are living in Boston. We're newly married, in our A-type high-octane So we were working all the time. We didn't have much time for fun, and as avid backpackers and climbers, So hallelujah, we managed to escape in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. We were enchanted into this frozen wintry wonderland, breathing in the smell of the pines, feeling the crunch! crunch! crunch! and snuggling up So, in preparation for this trip, we bought every winter our young wallets could afford. So there we were, in this beautiful, with 80 pounds each on our backs. (Laughter) Now, our dream vacation backpacking trip - probably the only one turned into a nightmare. We had welts on our shoulders, sweat-soaked base layers. We were seduced by the allure of more, and we didn't just have more on our backs, you might say that we were So after a bunch of trips like that, and my husband and I on the basic notion in the outdoors and your gear, We really had found the key and it was simple: go light. So let's talk about the culture of more. When we think about the word 'more,' more friends, more respect, So where does all this fascination From the rise of industrial capitalism Suddenly, mass-produced products life-enhancing products Suddenly, we had more freedom, higher wages and more democracy. But let's talk about some of the things Suddenly, we filled our days with no time to breathe, As a society, we were consumed Now, tell me, why do we need (Laughter) So is it any wonder what this obsession with more Folks, we're gobbling up the planet, and well, we're not having a heck Capitalism is a good thing, but it has lost its way, and so have we. I get the allure of more. I know the power of the dark side. I think to myself how I look and so sexy in those shoes. I've got to have them. So I plunk down my credit card, and I have that immediate rush And I take them home and I stand in front I put them on my feet, and I have that sickening realization of just how much I put on my credit card, and that they freaking hurt my feet! (Laughter) And what's left after that initial rush, but emptiness and pain? Fast forward to 2002, my husband and I are building We have product awards and media hits we are rowing internationally, and we are riding this huge wave but we're working more We're pouring capital in. We're buying ad-buys for a single page We're buying trade show booths And you know, all of that more market share, more growth, Can you see the irony all about less but living all And what did it really get us? It got us less time with each other, less time with friends, less time working out, less time in nature. We were running our business I want to be honest and tell you that the seduction of more down a very, very dark path. I was emotionally, so worn out and so out of balance that I spent the next eight years three failed in-vitro fertilization rounds and spending a fortune Can you imagine seeing at 12 weeks via ultrasound only to find out a few weeks later Why are we so afraid of the word 'less'? We think we'll have lack. We think we won't have enough. We think we're worried And all of that is rooted in fear. But good people, We are living in a civilization with so much prosperity, Happiness, when it comes from buying and therefore, an illusion. Let's reframe the word 'less,' 'less' doesn't mean lack. 'Less' doesn't mean lack. 'Less' means less stress, less worry, and more happiness, joy, connection, and abundance. So, after eight years of fertility everything to try and have a child, I was brought to my knees, and everything in me screamed, &quot;Stop!&quot; So I did. I got quiet. I stopped being the CEO I stepped off boards, I stopped chasing every notion and I stopped with the attachments, and all of those things like self-judgment, and blame, And after I cleared out and I spent time in nature, and I reconnected I started to sing again, This was the result. (Applause) Let's be honest, I have trained and worshipped but I know in my bones the abundance Make no doubt, we all have from the dark side to change the rules of the game, we have wrought on humanity I'm in the business imagine, what if we all And when we did buy things, we bought from brands and companies What if we trusted and had faith this illusion, this falsehood of more, is a life of abundance and joy I want to leave you with a question: What is that abundance, that joy and what can you have (Applause)