On the 16th of December, 1944 major offensive of the Second World tanks were to smash through Allied lines in They planned to split the British and American apart and allowing Germany to focus all its Except none of that came to pass. After all, this attack were completely different. After dogged the Allies were able to play their from the air. The Germans were able from which the battle gets its that Bulge was completely closed and the So what went wrong for the Germans? Why And was the offensive doom By September 1944 the Germans are on In the west, the Allies had broken out from in the east the Soviets had launched the massive the Germans are struggling to hold The problems continued at home. Supplies, fast as German cities were pounded It seemed that it was only a matter Nothing could be more significant of a march In almost the same month when Britain the Nazis were forced to But despite all of that, still believed that one final He also believes that the relationship between in a crisis such as a major counter-offensive saw no way forward on the eastern front. Soviet was way too vast. By launching a decisive attack a peace with the Allies and then turn his So this was the plan. Codenamed Operation a concentrated attack along a 60-mile front from Malmedy in Belgium, to Echternach in part of the line and had just six weakened troops newly introduced into the line and others The attack was to be conducted 6th Panzer Army, and 7th Army making up 29 Army under Eric Brandenburger would protect the Manteufel would cross the river Meuse and drive Dietrich would cross the Meuse further north Without Antwerp, the already-stretched Allies Mulberry Harbour at Arromanches all the way forces north of the drive, who were mostly Hitler believed that this would then cause the to a negotiated peace favourable to Germany. Hitler's plan was opposed by most of his top of the offensive. This included Field Marshals as well as Field Marshals Walter Both believed that crossing the Meuse river They also believed that by creating this bulge exposed on either side and would invite Allied proposed alternative plans to Hitler, but both of He believed that he could recreate the success of General's predictions and won a famous victory. it worked so well you can watch our video in the 1940 anymore and the circumstances surrounding Having lost over 3.2 million men since the more manpower in order to mount the attack. The conscription age was raised to 60. Men from the the army and workers who weren't vital to the troops were formed into new Volksgrenadier versions of normal infantry divisions bulked out experienced Panzer and Waffen-SS divisions lead the attack. They were given priority for In addition, Hitler put Otto Skorzeny, the man audacious rescue of Mussolini, in charge his commandos were to drive captured American havoc behind the American lines. He also ordered from the Fallschirmjager regiments. they were captured without playing In the end, despite their relative poverty, over 300,000 men, 2,100 tanks and assault So the Germans now had a substantial ground At this point in the war the Allies German troops can barely move out in Allied fighter-bombers and bombers. weather is bad for this offensive because do their build-up and launch the offensive The Germans were also severely lacking in fuel. Germany had suffered devastating attacks from and the production of fuel became a massive relies on armoured and mechanized units, fuel 5 million gallons of fuel for the offensive, even enough to reach Antwerp. A key part of this Without capturing Allied fuel dumps Indeed the only thing that hadn't changed from inferior. German forces could not afford to get Allies would surely win. Therefore the timetable German forces were to have taken St Vith and Ourthe. By the fourth day, they were to reach To achieve maximum speed there was also a huge had been especially tightened after the 20th involved with the Ardennes plan had to sign on penalty of death. On the ground, the woods massing German armies and bad weather prevented Although the Allies had decrypted German codes, inside Germany, the Allies had Despite that small silver lining though, did not believe in this attack. To work it a rapid advance, and the capture of Allied fuel to it could fall apart. Nevertheless on the 16th of From 5:30 a.m German guns pounded before 200,000 German troops The first indication of the attack was when the shells started exploding around them. At first, things seemed to go well. and the terrible weather kept Allied aircraft show in the offensive strict timetable. In take the vital high ground of Elsenborn ridge blocked by the 99th Infantry Division and The German plan stipulated that St Vith had to but the American troops defending St Vith eventually evacuating. Like St Vith, Bastogne The Americans had realized the significance of and quickly sent the 101st Airborne Division as the town. They both arrived on the A few days later they were completely to hold out for over a week but with Those are just a few examples of the valiant down the Allied line. The terrain of the Ardennes holding these key points small Allied forces for reinforcements to arrive. While there were battle began, by Christmas eve there were half a On the 19th of December General Eisenhower the command of all troops, American and British, and on the same day 30th British Corps which continuance of the British advance in the north As reinforcements arrived the German they were supposed to have reached by December 18th and the river Meuse by the 20th. Worse still for the Germans, fuel It was possible that the Germans may have been areas, but because they were too slow a lot of and a lot of this work was actually done by in trucks like these. Additionally Germany's there were a lot of traffic jams that formed have wasn't able to be brought up to the One thing that had gone the way of the the coldest winters on record in the area with That not only kept Allied aircraft at bay but adequate winter clothing. Many were forced to One of these Americans was Lieutenant Ben who was wearing this helmet, was immediately the town of Berdorf on Christmas day. receiving a penetrating wound in the shoulder, town. And you can actually see how violent to the wound he received, he also received On the 23rd though the weather and the Allies were able to bring their German tanks and supply routes and dropping at Bastogne. The tide of the battle was The first major counter-attack was led by General At the time of the attack, Patton was actually region of Germany, but he was quickly ordered to at Bastogne. The 3rd Army was able to achieve the 26th and this really represented a herculean The offensive was quickly turning into had hoped to avoid. In a desperate the Germans launched two new offensives in aimed to temporarily gain air superiority so The Luftwaffe did manage to destroy around 200 irreplaceable pilots in the process. A The second was an offensive further south in the was designed to break through the American departure of Patton's 3rd Army. However, and halted it with heavy losses. All the while The next major counter-attack was launched on the was launched in the north a few days later. By closed up and the lines had returned to what they At the end of the battle, both sides had suffered. and the Allies around 75,000. But unlike steady flow of replacements to fill the gaps. on both sides in a series of massacres. The but other lesser-known massacres were committed brutal murder of 11 African-American pows nearly 300 Belgian civilians in the towns of Hitler's gamble had come at a Everything needed to go right for the offensive to 'no plan survives contact with the enemy'. Yes, the Germans achieved surprise. But the achieved even though the plan hinges on it being Although the weather works in their favour for the the Allies are able to resume their air Alongside their own problems, the German army was from the one they destroyed on the same ground in with tenacity. Slowing up the German advance and mobile armoured reserve to mount years earlier. Pulling Germany into the If you're wondering if the offensive was doomed German commanders who organized it. But let's Germans and they're able to reach Antwerp. What peace with the Allies, but it's very hard to see that the Allies poured into the invasion The Battle of the Bulge, with its slim chance throw of the dice before the inevitable. war and essentially ended Germany's ability to launched their winter offensive in January they miles closer to Germany in a matter of weeks. Two crossing the Rhine into Germany itself. Soon