So, guys, congratulations on season four of The Chosen and what exciting Last night. I didn't get your name correct. Yeah. season one? You feel like you may not even get And now here we are, Yeah, I had a premiere last night. What a thing, Yeah, it was a a yesterday. It was a moment. You know, seeing, what has happened, Watching. I don't know if you remember So you see it and you see John the Baptist I just realized those two people, you know, David and Jonathan What a history between them has played, It's it's a lot of nostalgia we have the time to reflect and remember. And also, yeah, pretty, pretty, and where it is now. We're in in Leicester Square, It's pretty crazy to think how it Yeah, right. Totally insane. Yeah, absolutely. And on the way last night, about you and your character you didn't really know who And, but does it just feel like you were born It's so funny because when that when that came to be, It's funny. Andrew We don't quite know. You know, these people become the disciples And I remember Andrew is described and directing the fight, telling him I was like, is this guy this guy? Yeah. And so that was so fun. When Dallas Jenkins told me that after, you know, I think I said yes, that I would connect So I'm just grateful that it went Fantastic. And I love the relationship with your But you can I'll see you'll peter this cool guy and Now, how does it how is it playing The best you can imagine, You know, our first scene on the show and if you remember the season one, And he's coming to me, Lamb of God... So it's I think this relationship has kind of inform You know, this is kind of the for this for the first season. And what led me and and goes with Philip You know, that influences me. I feel my brother going away, you know, So At the end of the day, it's family It's the brother, it's the wife, you know, and our surrounding We're also so lucky to an amazing environment It feels like every season we get moments with the brothers and and the fact It's not just where it started, one, the season four, it's Yeah, yeah, we're playing, we're playing, That's the that's what makes it fun. I think that's what maybe because we are like two brothers and we are constantly playing around that's how these characters, who HeyUGuys - has been running for 15 years now. And last night, the premiere that we did, and a half thousand interviews And I've never seen as many comments premiere to this morning What is it about your fact They care about you as individuals, I mean, what a great question. I think that it's how what I love they are with us, They feel like the show speaks And so they share that energy You know, they with me and for me through maybe difficult times or when things are lovely and they they They see their families And and I think it's just And it's pretty incredible It's really incredible. Like, that's the I don't know, you know, the television shows, whatever it is, And I just feel like it's all it's all loving and positive and meets each person And so it's always it's incredible every person, you know, and every person meets it And it's so surprising and from what their reaction So pretty, pretty incredible situation. Yeah, amazing. And we see Simon transition quite a lot. Like he's he feels a little bit happier three. that's an understatement. Yeah, that's the tricky thing. It's a tricky line between how, you know, on other people and it's a good thing, And there may Actually it was some a part of and I was the one who had to deal with it. Even within the anger, even and Simon I'd like it to be about. And, you know, And then once it's about somebody else, there is a challenge to tell yourself, Does it matter what you feel? Doesn't matter what you felt. Now it's you need to be there for them. So I think there is kind of you know, the difficulties of getting there, So it's not as easy. But I think it comes across more as mature And I think that's, you know, You know, we're a few months and I don't know where it's going yet, So I was going to ask about that. So you guys shoot your scenes, but it's that you Like yeah, like for you yeah. And it was incredible. so you know that was that whole sequence. All of them people that we And I was blown away by everything, by the performances, by the rhythm, The dance. Yeah. It was so well done. And I sat there yesterday as an audience not knowing anybody on screen. Yeah, this is really boom boom in the music. And that's another important thing. The music that, you know, carries the entire show, And it is really it's it is really funny because we don't know So you feel like you're watching and then all of a sudden, like our faces Yeah. yeah. What are you doing? Yeah. Good show. So how much do you get where they're going to go in the future? Obviously we know because the Bible Like season five, the scripts for that? they, they keep them on the show They try to give it to us night before. You can't remember. Pretty close to the to the end. They're like a few I guess not two months. Yeah, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. But basically, like a month. Yeah. Before we know what's going on. Like, we have received the scripts, a script with the dialogs. Enormous. Yeah, yeah, So, yeah, it's a, it's a, it's Once we get the scripts, it's, Yeah. You know, we work on it very intensely and then once we're filming at night, We're at home memorizing tomorrow and So it's a very intense you know, it's a lot of. Guys, Congratulations on Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, you are watching. Hey, you guys. Yeah, you guys are you guys? I That's what they all say. You guys.