In this video you're going to learn to stop sense of safety. [Music] So let's take a look at is this interpretation that we're in danger. danger, that the danger is a significant and a bodies. And the problem isn't that we can't perceive a threat, act on it, and resolve it, and is that when we worry, when we catastrophize, when or memories of trauma come up, we have perceived hours each day in perceived danger, which leads majority of the day. And this can leave us feeling our body is like at this heightened state where tight, and it's like you've run a stress marathon last section of this course, in section two, we the perception of danger. In the beginning of this our bodies and how we can strengthen our nervous become stronger. In this video you'll learn how to the anxiety cycle and essentially retrains our exercises, I want you to pay attention to what remember that you are safe enough right here, of exercises in this video. Um in the full course more depth. Um but you can even just start making it would also be great if you got a notebook or a collection of these visualizations, because it's and practice them until your brain gets very How to build an internal sense of safety. Um feel like I'm doing something by writing things um let's start with the first list. Make a list of And these can be a real or an imagined place. Um your favorite trail? Or the beach? Or the temple? If workbook from the paid course, you can pause the you feel safe. If you're on YouTube, go ahead and a comment about your safe places. Okay. Next: safe be real people, remembered people, or divine people. by? Who do you feel fully accepted as you are with What songs make you feel safe? Is it Metallica were safe, powerful, happy, or free? Uh one of my Teton with my friend Ally. Like we had the most moved so quickly and confidently up through the the most amazing places in the whole planet. That I was a little kid we were up at my grandparents' winter and we went out cross-country skiing. and under our skis. and if you've never seen clear have no idea how amazing the Milky Way looks. It's - than darkness in the sky. Um I've never seen the looking at more bright than dark. So those are two have. Okay. And then let's make it one more list: feel safe? Like vanilla or strawberry or campfire you feel safe? Like what's a what's something that or your bracelet or satin or something that you warm blanket? What's a taste that helps you feel these sensations that send a message to your brain think of like a good book by a fire at my cabin. lists and as we talk about these things, as you notice what you feel in your body. We are bringing physical reaction. Like I can feel a sense of joy first exercise. And I'm going to just cover these overview, and you might get a feel for which ones the full paid course, you know, I've got all these for you to work through these. So um let's do this you to get out a piece of paper and a pencil. And imagined, and I want you to draw it on this piece a piece of art. The goal here is to activate the of safety. So I'll tell you what my safe place is. you what that drawing looks like- so for me it's a skies, bright red stone, the walls are steep, um it's Pine, which is a mixture of butterscotch and pine an artist, but as I remember this I feel a sense example of drawing safety. And I want you to go do exercise I'm going to give you an overview of. parasympathetic response is all about safety and will love you and support you. So now we're going used to say, &quot;When I was a boy and I would see scary for the helpers. You will always find people who it feel to be around them? Who protects you and real or imagined. It could be a divine being, an my father, my babies, my dog, prayer, cuddling with your pet as a human. So I want you to go and write workbook. Here's another exercise. Um it's called full exercise is in the course. Imagine a beam and traveling down through your body, filling you slowly filling you, how warm and safe you feel. And the workbook. Another page in your journal or a page about your strengths and accomplishments. are gifted at. Write about the hard things you've competent at? What are you confident at? Make a get a little Altoids tin, and you put a little reminder a hard time, you open it and remind yourself, these what I'm capable of. And it'll remind you that you be about your best memories. What are some of notice how it feels to remember them. Notice how exercise that we use with anxiety and trauma. Um And if you start to feel overwhelmed by a memory container, locking it up, and setting it aside a filing cabinet, or you can use an actual one. And or that problem. Place it in a file, put in the later.&quot; Here's another one: we can restore a felt is right here in the present moment reminding are safe. Um so in this situation I would use a four things you can touch, three things you can taste, and reminding yourself that right here good mantra: I am safe enough right now. I can before, and I can do them again. I'm okay, you know, thing you can do: gratitude practice. It literally and that's going to shift your nervous system. do to restore that felt sense of safety. It's other things. Um so how can you use these? You would just say like try each of these a little that's most powerful for you, and then practice day to strengthen your vagal tone. Just not when schedule a time to do this visualization. And during very mild anxiety-provoking situations. Um time I'm anxious be like, &quot;Okay, let's do the safe pair like really intense anxiety with a safe when we're calm, and then practice it in like a eventually, with time, with practice, you'll be able challenges. Let me just give you an example. One trauma, she was getting ready to share a part of and we talked about how to get ready for this. So to session, and then before we began, uh we did her she told her story, and um I was there, and I was, I was a safe person for her. Um and then after she her beloved mother who had passed away, and she her she loved her and was proud of her, and we did with her permission I gave her a hug. And some lighter and more resilient. So we made sure to We used all of these safety and resourcing skills these are exercises. They're not necessarily coping but it's best to practice them over and over for way they're easy for you to recall during moments of resources that you can draw from when you're this video is one section from my online course helpful for you. If you'd like to find the full also going to include a link to a video showing exercise to install resources for someone who's [Music]