In the very first chapter of A Song of Ice of Thrones, we see mysterious icy figures At first, we know nothing about them. Now, know almost nothing. But we "do know some got and try to work out what the Others are, The Others appear as "white shadows" "in with "Bright ... blue" eyes. They "come they bring the cold and darkness when they Sam calls them "monsters", and Stannis and cold", but when one's killed we see and "flesh" and "bone". George Martin "a different sort of life" - "strange, In the show, the walkers look more or less beards, black nails, and bad teeth. Either or "demons" but living creatures. They they "screech" in pain , in the show out of ice. So the Others are intelligent, not be the monsters that they seem. That said, The Others wear "rippl[ing] ... shift[ing]" and wield "strange pale sword[s]" so as if it were silk". They fight effortlessly, mercilessly, "lightning quick" and with the strength, in the show, to throw men cold they shatter steel", and their armour unstoppable. But they can be killed with obsidian, with an obsidian dagger, and the walker "melt[s] obsidian. It's also hinted that Valyrian this in the show - Jon Snow's Valyrian CGI. Others also apparently "don't like really hate dragons. basically zombies controlled by the Others. Wights are "slow clumsy things", "with blue eyes and cold black hands", though fast . Wights don't speak , and seem to to keep some memories. The Others make wights animals - walkers "ride dead horses", send a bear into battle , and animate a raven. The Others use wights to fight for seem stronger than living men, able to "[lift the head off him". In the show they tear fall off a cliff and keep on running. They head won't stop them , and if a hand is the Others, wights aren't hurt by obsidian. The only way to stop them is to chop them into bits , or to burn them. Wights are really even a little touch of fire. So one wight First Men, and at Hardhome in the show, they "tide of [the] living dead", all controlled So what do the Others want? What are they of humans. In Book 1 they kill some wildlings, they send wights after the Lord Commander Book 3 they use wights to kill hundreds of Men , then Sam kills a walker, and later wights attack Bran and company , and attack Hardhome. We also learn the Others have been attacking wildlings for years , forcing them to flee the Others are killing humans of many different an army of the dead . wildling Craster refers to the Others as "gods", They don't attack him and his wives , and leaving the newborns in the snow to be collected where an Other takes one of Craster's sons far-north Land of Always Winter. There, the One of Craster's wives refers to the Others the Others can transform humans into Others, the Others as a religious offering. It's are all sorts of "strange" wildling cultures rumoured to worship "gods of snow and ice". Sacrifice to the Others may be a widespread thing. The word Others is used as a curse, always "The Others take you". It's steal your stuff' - it is sometimes 'the always "the Others take you", suggesting We also hear stories of "wildlings who would which sounds like a different thing, but want to kill humans, but also want to use only way Others can reproduce, maybe this now, we don't know. What we do know is that an army of the dead, and winter is coming. Melisandre says they're "marshalling" their "evil" "power" and will wage bring a "night that never ends", unless battle" called "the war for the dawn". Stannis calls the Others "The only enemy that matters". Jon calls them the "real Everyone's expecting war between humanity Which could make sense, because a "war for We're told legends of "the Long Night" that lasted a generation. It's said that "extinguish all light and warmth". "They felled heroes and armies by the score, riding" the dead", "leading hosts of the slain". When "the realms of men" were almost at "an end", Westeros was saved by the of the children of the forest - who might Night's Watch, and defeated the Others in built to make sure the Others could never Across the Narrow Sea, the Rhoynar have legends the Others or a battle. In central Essos, Bay seem to have no tales of the Long Night. similar to the one of the "last hero" say that during the Long Night they were attacked who were defeated when a hero called Azor into battle. Now, huge mysterious citadels out, dividing the "realms of men" from like the Wall, right? And the "demons" the Others. Isn't it super weird that such sides of the world? George Martin has said enough east you must eventually find Westeros. Maybe these two places, the Grey Waste and the Land of Always Winter, are connected. of Yi Ti are one and the same, based in some That would make this area a centre of cold Targaryens and apparently dragons come from order to the fire and ice in this world, and Westeros and Yi Ti so badly without affecting also be related to the irregular seasons, be resolved somehow. Anyway, the main legends led by a hero now prophesied be reborn and Which, y'know, could happen. Jon Snow could he could unite the Night's Watch, the wildlings, Others with obsidian from the children of Daenerys could fly in with her dragons, to one of the dragons, and Bran could warg one on a unicorn, and all the good guys could Daenerys and Jon could make out, and rule for ever and ever, the end. Does it really make sense for this story to and most it achieves nothing but suffering. conquests in Slaver's Bay, Stannis' invasion just wars waged by seemingly good people, cause a huge amount of suffering, not just Look at Arya's chapters at Harrenhal, Jaime's speech - we're shown over and over that Martin himself was a conscientious objector books also have a strong anti-war theme . So pointless wars end with a great war that saves A "war for the dawn" would also be too of the thing [he] always strive[s] for in what could be more predictable than the good big epic battle? Martin has specifically criticised and evil. He says "We don't need any more guys battling bad guys", "the wars in Showrunner David Benioff has said "it's conflict". So the writer of the series series itself make it clear that this story guys and bad guys. not what happened last time either. Legends dawn" are ancient , and weren't even written happened. We're warned over and over not did seem to have happened, and the Others might not have happened the way we're told. humanity could've defeated the Others - we've with a flaming sword have been enough to win is that the Long Night ended with some kind the Others. Hints of this can be found at The Nightfort is the oldest and the largest of the [Night's] Watch" for "thousands as a "haunted" and "dreadful place". It's the subject of horror stories and strange legends, some of which hint at a the Others. This brings us to the story of real quick, this white walker in the show HBO, but it's probably not the same figure not in the books, so keep that in mind. The of years ago, the thirteenth Lord Commander skin as white as the moon and eyes like blue a wight. He "gave his seed to her [and] a queen and himself her king", he "bound strange sorceries", and "ruled" "For wildlings "joined" together to cast him King had been making "sacrifice[s] to the like Craster. The Night's King was doing happens to have a super creepy underground that lets Night's Watchmen through the Wall. It's likely that the Night's King was using this sneaky door to make his secret Gate is as "old as the Wall itself". Why Night's Watch's castles, its "chief an in-built sneaky hidden door to beyond the sacrifice to the Others. There are several Others - one about a "hero" with suspiciously came in the night". It definitely seems Others was going on at the Nightfort in the Guide hints at a "secret" at the Nightfort because in Dance the Night's Watch starts they'll find that the Watch has a history You've gotta wonder about the Wall itself the Others out after their defeat in the "battle wall made of ice to stop creatures of ice? told that the First Men cut the ice from frozen on sledges and stacked them up into the Wall. Can you imagine how long that would take? The Great Pyramid of Giza took decades to two thousand Great Pyramids , much taller would have taken centuries or millennia to Others to have built the Wall - you know, out of ice? The humans, meanwhile, could have - the structures that actually look like the Long Night ended not with war but with agreement between humans and Others is possible, which was a peaceful agreement between the their long horrible war. Under the pact, the men given everything else. Maybe, similarly, north of the Wall to the Others, and the land sneaky human sacrifice through the Black Gate if there ever was an agreement between the now, everyone's gearing up for war, but peace possible again. Watch. He's been on or beyond the Wall for pretty explicitly that has some special destiny. He probably has the blood of the Targaryen dragon kings as well as the Stark Kings of and he's got some definite similarities to be the guy who will deal with the Others. in making peace between peoples. He spends Night's Watch and the wildlings - two for thousands of years , and seem totally peace because he realises it's best for with the wildlings - and, similarly, he some wights for observation, and gets Sam library . One of Stannis' knights mockingly at the Wall. Maybe that'll actually end Jon is, of course, currently bleeding in the be resurrected by Melisandre. In the other when they come back from the dead, they seem He'll certainly feel alienated from the feel somehow closer to the Others. His last knife. Only the cold". Jon Snow is someone a bastard in black . He's honourable, and and, probably, a Targaryen. There's a duality him perfect to make peace between humanity be tough choices, compromises, sacrifices, Snow seems the perfect person to do it. So warrior with a burning sword, but a different who'll work not to rule or destroy, but bring peace, and balance, to the world of We first saw the Others in A Game of Thrones, know what they are and what they're about. are living creatures of ice that resurrect people, and building an army of wights, but they're probably not trying to wipe humans and the Others, which has apparently happened for the story to end with war. An alternative and the Wall that humans and Others somehow perfect person to bring a new peace. That's and discussion you might like to check out westeros.org forums. by supporters on Patreon, including xandria Rhaenys The Cat, SovietWomble, Florian Forster, Theon's Favorite Toy, and Sir Shia of House and a vote on the next video topic, you can Cheers.