[music] Hi. So good to see you this week. It is a makeup application, and it's one that I think How to apply makeup to make you The key is in the formulation, or, in this particular case, and just mindful of certain rules that seem to apply Also, the key is to not have We don't want to spend forever So, I'm going to show you how to do this. I've got 10 steps that are very basic and easy to to utilize a lot of the So, first and foremost, And the key to a youthful glow is glowing skin. And the way to achieve that is So, instead of thinking of a heavy formulation of a lighter dewy application. And there are several ways that you can achieve that. You can break away from your foundation The two that I've used repeatedly here are the Garnier Both of these have sun protection in them, Or another trick that you can do is, take your current foundation and cut And that will give you a little bit more of a finish as well. So, there are many ways to make this happen, not breaking the budget while we do this. I also have another little weapon in my arsenal, Tinted Moisturizer Illuminating. And I will take this and mix It gives a bit of kind of a sun-kissed summery glow, And the key is you don't want to overdo it with shimmer So, I'm going to utilize the IT CC cream. And a little goes a long, long way with this stuff, And this color is medium, And I'm going to add a little bit of the Laura Mercier And here we go. Just using a brush to apply. The key is it'll give you some nice coverage so you but you want to be able to see your skin. And that's a big part of having that glow. And it's what we love so much in our younger kids, you know, their skin is just so beautiful, So, it's really just recreating that look and giving Okay. So, now that that's going on, And that's it. Any residual I just take from my hand, on my face. All righty. So, from here, the next step... I forgot to pull this And that is a eyelid primer. And I think that's really important to give your and something to help your makeup adhere to. So, and I will list everything for you in the but this is just a great way to cut the redness for the eye shadow, which will also be But you don't want any redness in your eyelid Okay. And I always take the residual And this is a great trick to It will prevent things from moving south and tends Okay. So, the next step is to hide discoloration. And for that, I'm using the It's my all-time favorite. A little bit goes a long way with this, so, under-eye area, right here. And if you want, you can save this step for after eye below the eye. And you can always clean up I'm not going to set this with powder just yet. So, if I need to add more, I will. But I'm really just taking and I'm pressing in the And I want everything to even out. And, if you have any spots, any sun spots or whatever, Okay. Next up on my list is You don't want to create too heavy of a brow pared-down look here, a more youthful look. But, as we get older, our brows tend to thin a little, And I'm just going to use this And I'm just going to create some Okay? So, you just go in and you follow your own brow line. And it's going to be, again, very light. But just giving the brows a little bit of a pop. I'm lucky with the brow tattooing It's a lot easier and quicker, as you can see, I've always said this was one of the best So, if you're on the fence, take it from me, And I do find, with my no-makeup looks, All right. So, again, that's just And now what I'm going to do is move on to eye shadow. And for this look, again, I love this Japonesque eye palette, and I've featured it on this channel. But, as you can see, So, again, with a relatively light hand, on the inner corner of my eye Same on the other side. Next up, I'm going to utilize this bottom section here, You just can't go wrong with, you know, Khaki green I use a lot because of the A lot of you blue-eyed gals can use some gray here. So, you've got some options. But the key is just a very We're just opening up the eyes, above into the crease, Okay. And I'm going to use this darker brown, So, this is now going on the Okay. And last but not least will be the darkest color, and then just a little, little bit out to the side. Just for some extra depth and definition there. Helps to create a wider eye look. You don't want to go too far out the side Okay. And I'm going to take a blending brush, because the key is keeping it natural, So, I just swirl and blend. And then I will follow up. A little bit more highlighter right here. And just kind of clean up if there's So, basically, you're looking at your eye So, this third, this inner corner From the mid section to two thirds And your outer third is your darkest tone. That helps to create width in the eye, So, that's the extent of the eye shadow. You notice that I stayed above, nothing happened below. There's a reason for that. So, the next thing we're going to do is So, this is not the smokey eye where we do the The tightlining of the eye keeps your pencil basically upper lash line, and it creates an open look. So, you're going to take a good liner, either/or, just depending on your And you go from the underside So, let me push in a little closer so you can see. And I'm going underneath, and I'm hugging my lashes So, it really makes your lash line stand out. And then just a tiny little whisk out to the side here. Same with the other eye. Going from the underside. So, we're not going down because you ruin the eye So, underside, kind of smudging in the lash line, And that is tightlining, So, now we're going to finish this off with mascara. Again, upper lashes only. The reason why we focus on the upper instead of the and mascara, you create the focus going We're trying to lift. So, everything stays above. I've been such a huge fan of this mascara, Between that and the lash boost that I've been doing, or lash extension look. And with these two going on, I feel like I've got All right. And, so, our eyes are done. Now what we're going to do If you have very dry skin, If you want to control shine a little bit, translucent loose powder but with a little brush. And I'm just going to tone down the shine And I'm not going to do too heavy of a powder Okay. So, the next step is strobing or highlighting, You've got options here. I am going to pull out a couple of choices for you. If you want to stay on the matte side, in this area and you don't want to use anything option because it gives you ways to still contour, a little bronzer. So, this is a choice for you. Or you can do something that has So, it's completely up to you in this area. But strobing, as in highlighting and contouring, So, I'm going to use a bronzer and a brush, and I'm to make it easy for you, You go here and here, here and here. So, we take a little bit of bronzer. And here and here. It's kind of where the sun And what's good about doing bronzer to here is that So, we're doing our number three. And it really just pops in a nice little glow. And you can also use bronzer if you want to sculpt or That's up to you. But we're not doing any heavy carving, Blush. Blush, blush, blush. So, again, a very light peachy pinky nude, This is a color called princess by ULTA. And we want to be careful not to do big apples right So, we want to keep the blush just hugging tight, So, again, it's just a little bit of a whisk Right along the cheekbone area. Just to give you a hint of color, again, And you can follow this up If you want to do a powder highlighter, and run that right here. Or, if you want, again, a little bit of a shimmer, And, instead of applying it directly, smudge right here along the upper part of my cheekbone. And it just gives a little cheekbone pop, But, again, it's up to you to decide if you feel That's a completely personal decision. Okay. Wow, we're almost done. Next up would be lips. And for lips, again, the secret to having lighter as we go older. The darker colors can be very harsh. You know, I will limit those to maybe an evening look, But, for the most part, I'm going lighter, So, one of my absolute favorites is...if I could And, again, it's a real, real peachy But before you apply lipstick, And you want that as close to the lipstick shade And I'm fishing around here... Okay. Hold on. Bear with me. There it is. And, again, this is by NYX, but this is a very nude color. And it serves as a border and a boundary, so We want everything to stay in place. So, just follow along. Okay. Follow it up with a light And I like to hit it with just a little, little, but right in the middle. And it's not a gloss, Which, again, for me, it all sort of plays in there and plays together. But this is a very simple basic makeup application. It allows your skin to come through, It gives you a bit of a glow, As we head into the spring and the summer months, to add these colors to the And, you know, you get a little bit of sun outside just a very warm summery sunny fun feeling. But, again, all of these things help to lift, But we're thinking lighter as we go older, and we're playing around with what we have. But it's really being mindful in how we use Like I said, again, with my line of work, cut through the makeup like that. And I'm grateful that I had to learn all that stuff to recreate things. But it's so nice to be able to bring it back to natural and then to be able to take it to that next level So, I hope you found this video helpful. I hope it's maybe got you thinking and my colors and placement and all of that. If you have some wonderful tips and tricks that you use of downplay age, please put it out there. I know my base here would love to hear from you, We are content sharers, we are supporters, encouragers, So, I thank you for being here. I thank you for following me on social media. And I look forward to seeing you next week. As I always say, go out, be bold, [music]