There are certain eyeshadow colors Have you ever experienced that before? That one time you put your eye makeup on professionally and everyone around I didn't know your eyes were so bright" or, No one seemed to notice them before, Why is that? And then, in contrast to that, you've that it instantly made It just didn't work. Why did it work that one time, Why did one make your eyes look gorgeous But the other time Why did that happen? Today we're going to be talking all and the eye shadows that make them pop. Hundreds. Hundreds of you guys that will make you look younger And I've told you before that that is catered towards helping you. So we're going to do that right now. Let's just start by going If you guys really like this. I can do more and more in-depth videos on it, because it's going to help me If you want to skip this part, you can get right into the eye But if you want to do it with me, So complementary colors are colors on the color wheel. So for example, red and green, These color combinations are bold, but If you actually stare and then you immediately stare at a white that you will see a faint orange I'm not going to go into the science unless you want me to in another video. But what that means is that complimentary different parts of the eyes, since they biologically play off of one It is a great natural example of opposites Another thing I like to think about a lot and those are the ones sitting next Sometimes I like to go in the complementary color route but sometimes I really like staying and you're going to see examples of that And finally, we also want to think whether the color is cool or warm. When I'm choosing colors for someone, of their skin, as well as the warmth and the warmth or coolness of the palette So let's start talking about And this is all going to make Let's begin with brown eyes. One foolproof color family from warm to cool is a brown palette. So think in terms of analogous colors. This looks very harmonious and it actually So, for example, putting blue eyeshadow and makeup is art. So you can absolutely disagree with me. isn't nearly as flattering This family of color looks beautiful and smoked or kept very subtle Something else that works beautifully, speckles in the eyes is bringing in You're grabbing those colors You can do this Matte Brown And then popping a gold color to spot highlight it. You can go more yellow with the tone Whereas like a bit of a pink Those golden caramels and honey especially if you have a warmer skin tone so it stays within that harmonious Now, if you want to add color, that are known to look great with brown, And that could very well be and red and orange is complementary So when it comes to blue, a smoky blue looks gorgeous, Kim Kardashian does this look often And I think it really is stunning. It works especially well on her dark hair and blue is also in that cool So it's very complimentary to her coloring and her brown eyes Another color And I think it's because it's also in like Brown. Green. It's all a part of that Earth family If you want to add a pop of color, instead of doing it in a smoky way, you can very strategically place A great way to do and then adding a pop of color You can also use the color or on the bottom or both, This will give you that pop of color smoky commitment. You know, a colorful, So if you want to try color, But you don't have to go all the way. You can just do it as like a spot highlight Now, let's talk about Blue Eyes. It is very well known that orangey coppery on blue eyes, and that is because blue So they are complementary. The one color really does And you will see that in Hollywood celebrities wear orange I see it on the red carpet all the time. It's very strategically done their eyes really pop at those events. Warm tones like really warm when put directly beside it. If the person's skin I even really love using gold Something else that I think looks amazing, hair and cool skin is gray and silver. The tonal similarities You can even add some purple in there, which is also cool toned to make it Typically, I find that blue eyed women look great in the warm eyeshadow and the blue eyed women with the icy look great with the cooler No matter what color, though, no matter warm or cool, I must say I love love, love The contrast of the darkness the eyes is so beautiful Personally, I just feel I think I'm going to get I'm going to say it anyways. I just feel like a smoky eye looks more impressive than a smokey eye And that's why whenever I typically put in blue contacts the blue and that smoke is very dynamic It's a very dynamic contrast. I think it's beautiful. Moving on to Hazel and green eyes. Hazel and green are very similar the same on them. So I'm going to grouped them together are also part of that earthy color family and working with warm tones If you look at the color wheel across So let's start with some red based colors, really warm tones like coppers, red-based browns, warm look so gorgeous against green or hazel. It's a little bit like brown in that just create a lot of a static balance If you find that you have a lot of gold flecks in your eyes, will draw that quality out and them and If there's something in your eye color or whatever, try finding an eyeshadow and pop it on the lid your eye into that color in the eyes One color that is also known to be All this, again, The contrast between the purple make the green pop a lot You can do so much with it. You can go for something lavender This is an amazing look for the springtime but you could also go jewel toned with it for a night out, Look, if I had green eyes, I think I would You can also use just like a color pop If you're not as adventurous Either way, though, if you haven't because you may be surprised by how much you love a purple on your green Let me know in the comment section and if you are inspired This video is over!