Hello, there, and I'm gonna talk to you about a subject that literally changed It's a subject not many people understand, but those who do sure live a lot better than the ones who don't. Now, Spanish Distiller one time said, &quot;The good life's expensive. &quot;There's another way to live &quot;but it isn't any good.&quot; Well, a lot of what he said is true. Many years ago, a man gave me this book, Think and Grow Rich. I was flat broke. I had always been flat broke. I had never had any money. I was 26 years old, I had and no business experience. He said, &quot;Bob, you read this, &quot;you can have anything you want.&quot; Now, I really didn't believe that, but I believed he believed it. And I said, all I want is some money. I figured if I had enough money, all my problems would go away. See, I was earning $4,000 If I had paid every in 18 months, I would So I really didn't think I was going to be able to change that. Do you know that within a year, I was earning 15,000 a month. I went from 4,000 a year, to Now, I hadn't got that much smarter. You don't have to be but you do have to and that's what I want You'll notice here, where we there's a young lady there, and myself. She is my business partner, if I ever met anyone this lady sure does. Sandy Gallagher is an She was a securities had been in the banking for 20 years. And she had done $100 billion in business. Now I found that out by asking her. Said, &quot;How much did you do?&quot; She said, &quot;$100 billion.&quot; I thought, you mean $100 million. She said, &quot;No, $100 billion.&quot; Now, if you considered, she she was buying banks, so she was dealing in lot And I thought, that's the kind of person I want to work with. Well, she is my business for the past 10 years. She's absolutely brilliant Well, that's what I'm And that's what I want you to think about. You see, the truth is, you as you're presently earning in a year. We can show you how to into a monthly income. Now that may sound like but it is really not. It's the way it happens. Now, here's something when I first started to study it, and I first started to earn some money. It was by Napoleon Hill, Listen very carefully, I'm gonna show you how Napoleon Hill said, &quot;When &quot;known as the big money, &quot;who accumulates it as easily Now he says, &quot;There exists &quot;which can be compared to a river, &quot;except that one side &quot;carrying all who get into &quot;onward and upward to wealth, &quot;and the other side flows &quot;carrying all who are &quot;get into that side, and not &quot;from it, downward to misery and poverty.&quot; Now he said, &quot;Every &quot;a great fortune has &quot;of this stream of life. &quot;It consists of one's thinking process. &quot;The positive emotions &quot;of the stream which &quot;The negative emotions form the side which &quot;carries one down to poverty.&quot; Now he said, &quot;This carries a thought &quot;of stupendous importance. &quot;To the person who is following &quot;what we're talkin' about here, &quot;with the object of &quot;If you are on the side &quot;which leads to poverty, &quot;by which you may propel yourself to &quot;the other side of the stream. &quot;It can serve you only &quot;Merely reading and &quot;either one way or another, Now he says, &quot;Poverty and &quot;Poverty may, and &quot;take the place of riches. &quot;But when riches take &quot;that change is usually brought about &quot;through well-conceived, and &quot;Poverty needs no plan. &quot;It needs no-one to aid it, &quot;Riches are shy and timid. &quot;They have to be attracted.&quot; Now, of course we talked you've got to attract it. Now, I think you're gonna enjoy this. First of all, money has to that governs this whole universe. Everything operates by a law, well Emerson wrote beautifully, Ralph Waldo Emerson, on the Law of Compensation. And the Law of Compensation is exact. The Law of Compensation of money you earn will these three points. Number one, the need for what you do. The need for what you do. Number two, your ability to do it. And number three, the in replacing you. Now think of that. Number one, the need for what you do. Number two, your ability to do it. And number three, the difficulty Now, odds are pretty good, is already there, you don't Number three will be taken care of if you take care of number two. You may wanna think about I thought about it for a long while, and I realized, it's pretty true. So you see, you only have to focus on one of those three points, your ability to do it. Whatever you're doing, you Just keep working at getting And there isn't any competition. You're the only competition Master whatever you do. Master it. Now, I want you to think of this. There are only three Just three strategies. Pay close attention. It's M 1, M 2, and M 3. Now, before I start into you wanna burn into your mind. If you don't teach your odds are pretty good School does not teach You can go all the way through school, you can go to Harvard, Oxford, they do not teach you how to earn it. They'll teach you how to invest it. They'll teach you how to store it. They'll teach you how to count it. But they do not teach you how to earn it. Now there's three strategies. If you're gonna teach your children, you teach them number three. But let's start with number one. Number one strategy is used and it won't work. It never has worked. This is where you trade You see this strategy it's called saturation. It's-- if you run outta time, I don't care how effective you are, you earn an hour, you're You're trading your time for money. It doesn't work. It does not work. Number two is an excellent by 3% of the population. Number two is where you Now, people in the number one strategy, they hear about this, and so of what they're earning but they don't understand and they usually lose it. If you're gonna invest what you're doin', or go that they know what they're doing. Number three is where you Now the first two you wanna focus on. Here's the one you wanna It's only used by approximately one person out of a hundred. This is where this group 96% of all the money that's small select group of people. And I'm gonna tell you they were really smart. Some of them aren't very smart. I was earning over a and I started to analyze how was I doin' it? I had stumbled on M 3. I didn't know what I was I had been raised to a lotta money, you're I knew I wasn't that a fair amount of money. M 3 is used by 1% of the of all the money. These people multiply multiple sources of income. Now that's the strategy. How do you set up multiple Well some people get that That's not multiple jobs, it's The truth is, you can where you're earning money And it's never been With the internet, and man, you can make it happen. So here we are back again. What we want to do is show you how to turn your annual income into a monthly income. Now pay attention, because It's very very important. This can be accomplished by having multiple sources of income. You check back in all wealthy people have always had multiple sources of income. They didn't have one, they had all kinds of different sources of income. I'm not quite sure how many I've got. I don't even look after look after them. Sandy's got a team of that looks after our sources of income. Now keep standing here. Listen to what we're sayin'. Our world is changing. Make no mistake about it. You know, Alvin Toffler around 1970, called Future Shock, and he talked about the Well, I was workin' with Earl in 1970, and that was a very popular book around the Nightingale Conant Corporation. We were all studyin' at some of the predictions. We'll say &quot;This could Well, move ahead to 40 or 50 He didn't predict it big enough. Now, he just passed away here a while ago, but he said somethin' you should remember. He said, &quot;The illiterate &quot;will not be the people &quot;They're gonne be the people who &quot;cannot learn, unlearn, and relearn.&quot; Most of what we've we're gonna have to unlearn, have to learn some new rules. Now I am unlearning and And I'll tell you somethin' I've learned: our world is changing. It's not getting bigger. The world is getting smaller. It is shrinking. And here's somethin' else. This is very important. You can have business all over the world, through multiple sources of income. Here's the question you wanna ask: How much do you want? How much do YOU want? Because you can set up sources of income all over the place. Now, I do have multiple sources of income. Our company's structured that way. We train consultants in what we teach, they have If I were starting over go into network marketing, the easiest way to set up Now the fact is that most never earn any money, is another thing. They're just not working Study the real heavy hitters. They all have multiple sources of income, and they have money comin' at It's a beautiful thing to understand. Doesn't matter where you sources of income all over the globe. You can just keep settin' them up. You like the idea, don't ya? Well, I'm gonna tell you something. You are capable of doing this. We teach this in our programs. Now, we don't only teach this way, there's all kinds of ways. And you'll say, &quot;Well, are &quot;that you have the same size?&quot; No. Some are bigger, some are smaller. But they all have one thing in common. Although they're big into your bank. That's right. When you have a source of income and it just keeps adding up and up and up. Now just keep watchin'. It just keeps comin'. And it comes into your bank. Big and small. It's a beautiful thing to know. (relaxing music) How much do want to earn? Watch this video often. Share it with your friends. Not multiple jobs; Now Napoleon Hill was what'd he say? It's a mental thing. It's all in your mind. I don't care what you've done in the past, I can tell you this. You watch this often enough, in our company, the Proctor You'll learn how to earn money. 'Cause we teach that. We teach many things. We teach how to control So I wanna thank you. And I look forward to Sandy Gallagher and I spent all our time, teach this information. Thank you for tunin' in. (upbeat music) - [Announcer] Check us out at ProctorGallagherInstitute.com, for tips, tools, and resources.