Can we tell if food is award winning? Let's talk about that. A Good Mythical Morning. We're about to see if we can guess of their unawarded peers. But first, this portion of today's Bombas, a comfort focused premium basics brand Bombas focuses on the basics made better. Underwear, slippers, and T-shirts thoughtfully That means socks without annoying toe No joke. Rhett and I have been fans of Bombas for years. Yes, we have. What can we say? We love comfort. And there's some nice socks, y'all. They're very nice. And what's maybe even cooler than the that Bombas is a purpose driven brand. So for every item you purchase, Bombas makes the number one, and number three most requested Socks, and T-shirts, which means that every purchase experiencing homelessness. And through Bombas, over one hundred million essential across all fifty states. Good quality and a good mission like a no brainer. But to take it even further, they also have a a one hundred meaning they will replace or refund your even if your dog eats your sock. So feel good and do good with Bombas, knowing your purchase is So new customers get twenty You can go to bombas.com/gmm and get that twenty percent off. Thanks again to Bombas for sponsoring Now, maybe even thousands, awarding gold medals left and right. But are these so called award winning non-award winning counterparts? Well, I know two tongues that It's time for And The Winner Is Us For Getting To Eat All Okay, you've got smoky paprika chips from one of which won gold in Chips, Rice Cakes, and Salty Snacks at the twenty But which one is it? The Sofi awards? I hate I missed it. Is this one Sofi? Let's find out. These are not very orange. Oh, but that's good. Is it good because we haven't Never really had a paprika chip. That's just a good chip. It is a good chip. It's a little spicy. It's crispy. This one here, I'm gonna get a foldy. Forgive me. Kind of want to get a similar. Oh, look at that. I got a bubbly. Totally different. Very &quot;lazy&quot; as in Lay's-ish. You know what I'm saying? Like a Lay's. Lay's like, yeah, it's a thinner chip, but the. And it's a smokier, almost sooty tasty to it. But I love smokey stuff. But I don't like this as I like the crisp of this one better. I like the spice of this one better. And I think that the smokiness is, right. This is excessively smoky. Something's strange. That doesn't taste award winning. Don't love it. This one's understated. It has hints of attic. Where's that paprika? You know what I mean? You taste the attic? Like a little asbestos? Just a little oldness. A little. A little. Exposed to the heat and cold Forgotten jacket, maybe. Forgotten jacket. I'm thinking about being. That's what I'm working on. It's not bad. I went into my attic. This one's bad. I went into my attic the other night. Is. I don't. I was looking for a light bulb. And. To see in your eye? I think maybe had some light bulbs, but, I had so many forgotten jackets. You forgot that you put a You know. I do. But I feel like I should here to work and so I can remember them every time You want to give them away? Yeah, Oh, you know, wearing it very differently than me. You know what I'm saying? I guess, yeah. No, what I'm saying is like. You don't want to give any context to the people at home? I think I saw Mikayla. I think I saw you in one of my shirts that just for me, and for you, oh, like a dress. Again, for people about why people Rhett lets everybody go through I'm a lot like our Bombas. So for every purchase that I make, pieces of clothes to someone Wow. They didn't even pay for that connection. No. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I was gonna give you that one. Oh, look, I got a foldy inside of a foldy. That's nice. These are good. These are exquisite. These are crazily. Crunchy. On a different level than all the others. Okay, two, But I think you agree. Three, two, one. I mean. If I had to choose a second one, It would be the last ones? The last ones. Okay. The Sofi award winning quote, peppers that come from the which are turned over several times week and smoked over oak wood. They are the smoky paprika chips from Sal de Ibiza in bowl number three. What? The ones that you loved so much are Lays potato chips. But look at the package. Signature, though. Gourmet. It's a fancier Lay's. And the second ones are Torres. Torres is strange. The last ones, which were your runner up chips, are from Lorenz. Well, I mean, I didn't even know Lay's Never seen this bag before. Yeah, these are the bags coming in here. That is it. Right there. The problem with these That's really the problem. That's okay. I didn't like the ones that. The ones that won the award were arguably your least favorite, because you said that they taste I think people are looking for their chips these days. Yeah. I thought it was a pleasant story. I'm associating it with a positive review. Yeah. Okay, we have the best cheese recipient Cheese Awards hiding amongst three They've been having World Cheese awards, So are they awarding the blue cheese award or is the best cheese happen to be blue? It's the best cheese happen to be blue. Like, this is like the best cheese. Cheese lovers like me love blue cheese. You know what? I love cheese lovers. Oh, thank you, Link. But I don't love cheese. I don't hate cheese, except if it's blue cheese. But just think about this. Think about if you had made cheese one day and you put it in a cave and Let's say it's in the basement. Yeah, it'll taste like basement cheese. With your jackets. And then you're like, I think a few summers ago. There was some cheese on that cave, and you went back in and then you tasted it. Why would I do that? I don't know. Why would I taste forgotten cheese? I'd rather eat an attic jacket. Because the people with the most me and your wife, I'm also gonna say the award winning cheese we paid two hundred and It was shipped to directly from. There's a stark difference Gee willikers. The first one is super strong. The first one is more unusual than, something that I've had before, which is still good. The first one, I felt like I had already ingested it. The second one. You smelt it, you dealt it. I almost feel like I So the one that I hate the most That is really special. This one doesn't have a lot of blue in it. It's got a lot of sour juice. I'm trying to. Like, in the bottom. Now you gotta get to this last one because it's a totally different complexion. It's yellow. Look. You can really taste the mold in that one. Yellow and purple. Yeah, that one's very moldy, mold juicy. I mean, look at this one. And look at how. Look at that. How it's just like clumped. That tastes like a horse's foot. Oh, my gosh. It really does. That tasted like one of those before the trimming. Yes. Dead on. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Like a forgotten horse. Oh, my gosh. I mean. I have a headache. Oh, gosh. You ready? I mean. Both of these are incredible. They're all great. I thought I hated the first one. This one has a fruity taste. One. I think this one has got to be. This is so unusual. Two hundred and fifteen dollars. Okay. The Twenty Twenty-three Best cheese from Norway described as, beautifully marbled and perfect for caramelized figs or fig marmalade. Marmalade. I'm getting nervous because I'm going It's called Nidelven Bla from Gangstad Gardsysteri four, you're both correct. Oh, right. Okay, we did it. The first one's from DaneKo, This is the first one. No, no, that's the award winning. Oh, this is the award winning. Yeah, it's the same color, bro. Well, I didn't see the front of it. So, DaneKo you liked. The one that you were, the second plate in that you were like, It's Boar's Head. Yep. And then the one that is just Good and Gather. So it's. That was my least favorite. The Good and Gather. Boar's Head is super solid, DaneKo, can I tell you something? Yes, you may. Okay. But what do we want to do with this? I mean, this looks like a Mythical You know what I'm saying? They're gonna have fun with that. I'll come over there. See what they can do with it. Grab a little bite from time to time. Okay, we have bloody Mary mixes, and the one you're looking for is Product of the Year in and Alcoholic Beverages and Cocktail Mixes. A double winner, Same company, I guess. But again, this was not a bloody Mary award. This was a beverage award in two categories. So, one of these really blow It better blow us away better. It blow us away better. I can't say I like that. And there's no alcohol in any of these. We're just tasting the mix is what I was told. That is very peppery, which makes me like it. It doesn't have a. It's a rich, deep red. It's not as creamy as I want it to be. Really? Okay. Now, this one's got more floaties in it. This one has a more celery taste in it. Which I don't like as much. But it's a little bit more traditional. But I feel like this might be just, like, some brand that you know, not award winning. Some brand you know. Okay. Which would be kind of We've been to, we've been to the attic. We've been to the basement. We've been to the horse barn. Let's see if one of these Okay. Thicker, a bit more basic. The most tomatoey of all of them, and I think it's got the This is the most complex thus far. You remember. It's not too celery, which I like. You remember the tomato soup and they would serve it on the days Yeah. This tastes like your girlfriend had that for lunch. And? And then you met after school. By the dumpsters? By the dumpsters, and she put in some Altoids And you taste a little mint and a little, something a little spicy, And then anything else that Okay. Is that specific enough for you? And it's thick, too. So kind of like forgotten tongue. Forgotten tongue. Thick tongue. It's growing on me. I'm not having anything really stand out, Maybe this one will do it. The sweetest. This. This can't be it. No. It's just basic. No, definitely not. I'm not liking this one now. Well, I don't know. Too much celery. Ready! Not ready. I'm not ready. To be clear, does the third one have a minty taste I didn't taste any mint. You know, sometimes when you have that's a little spicy? Got it. It makes a make out Got it. You know what I'm saying? Three, two, one. Yep. We are agreeing. It's complex. It's complex. If it's gonna win an award, it's gotta. It's gotta make you think a little bit. Okay, so that's three times in a Right. And we're right. Twenty twenty-four Sofi Award winning quote, So tasty, Made with tomato, traditional bloody Mary spices, and a pinch of heat from chilies Of course, it's the Barcoop Bevy Bloody Mary No! The other ones. I mean, it's the thinnest, too. It shocked you the most. It seemed. It was the most. I don't like it. Unusual. I don't like it, though. I don't hate it. I'm sorry. Now that I know that it won an award, Well, you know, I gotta like it. Well, what are these awards? I mean, maybe the awards. Let's see the others. I've only said the word name three times. The second one is from Dick's dirty Bloody Mary Mix. Okay. That's funny. The third is Bloody Mike. Bloody Mike did it. We like Bloody Mike. Last one is from Ocean Spray. Which is why you were like, meh. Yeah. Comes in a plastic bottle. It could be grape juice. Oh, I forgot to tell you, the winner. Way to go, Mike. Or actually, sorry, the loser will have their own. No, it's the winner. Yeah, the winner gets the thing. I knew what the thing. Well, it's written in my copy that But I know what the thing is. It's an award winning thing, if I won. Okay. Doesn't sound great to me. But no one's winning. It's true. So maybe I just get it in the end. As you can see, we can't. Time for a little dessert. You're blindfolded because it's chocolate round, you know, We don't want you to see it. The winner here is the World's Best Chocolate award from Chocolate Awards. Oh, this is a big award. Oh, that's a long piece of chocolate. This is giving me Easter bunny so far. Do you already have some? These are all big chocolate bars, I'm just smelling. A piece. I mean, so you do have some in your hand? Yeah. Smells like an Easter bunny, doesn't it? Good gracious. That must have been huge before you. You did something down here, huh? Here and here? I just took one block, dude. No, you didn't. No, you took a lot more. No, you left, like, on the plate, There's a whole bar. Well, I have. it doesn't feel complicated. That's dark. How does one appreciate dark, I don't know. It's my favorite. This feels like eighty-five percent, man. This feels like the sweet spot. Too much. I think I've had it before, though. I like it because it kind of feels It needs salt or something. Is this the next one? Oh, yeah, it's thicker. I can tell. Okay, now that's. Grab the top. Grab above. Break it. There we go. Oh, I like the sound of that. Oh, yeah. Oh, this is thick. This one's sweeter. It's not as dark. This has some fruity notes. Maybe it's darker than it seems, It's pretty good. I like it. I think I know what the first one is. I don't know what that one is. And look at. Oh, this one. This one's not. The first one is so big. It's just gratuitously large. It's as big as a puzzle. You know, you could lay it out and. Assemble something on it. This one does many things in my mouth. Tell me how many things happen in your What? It is interesting. Well, I haven't said anything. I was listening to the chocolate. There's darkness. There's a sweetness. There's a fruity sweetness. I'm not saying I even like It tastes a little bit like beer. But there's more happening that It's hoppy. Yeah, because when you're eating you need something to, just really wow you. Now, this one is got. Oh, okay. It's got. It's got something. Some sort of, like. It's been. It's been milled. It's got a. It's like. It's, like, three D printed or something. This is three D chocolate? What happened to this one? Yeah, it's bad. Did you just throw it at me? I try to make it land on the table. Okay, so we're not voting for that one. The first one I have Do you only buy awards? I only buy award winning thing. All right. Hold on. I'm ready. Wheres my thing? Three, two, one. We going different? I don't have a lapel. Okay, you're in there. Okay. The twenty twenty-three World's Best Chuncho cocoa, renowned for its floral This is Vigdis Rosenkilde, cacao, on plate number three. Yeah, that's the one. And look at that. It's got a cacao on the actual. I knew this was Lindt, which is good. It's solid. Too much. And you almost guessed the percentage. Because it's ninety percent. Ninety, okay. Okay. And then the next one is Blue Stripes Whole Cacao. It's seventy percent. Look at that, Link. That's seventy percent. That's in your ballpark. I like that. RIP to the last one, which was just Trader Something happened, Trader. I mean, I thought that, that's an error. I think it might just be in somebody's. It's been melted. Windshield. Okay. So, Rhett, you won. I thought you were getting this thing, but actually, Link has to read you excerpts of it, I don't know. There's something with the erotic novel we'll do something with in More. Okay. I might need more people than just Link to read from it. Thanks for subscribing You know what time it is. Hi, and today I am celebrating winning for being my Mythical best. And it's time to spin Congratulations. Click the top link to watch us or fake in Good Mythical More. And to find out where the Wheel Are you ready to make one hundred dishes Well, they're all waiting for you in at mythicalcookbook.com