- I recently went to Saudi Arabia. - Is there any cut back in Siberia in the business class food? - Is there any Saudi woman - This is my first time sitting Things are changing inside the kingdom All from Saudi Arabia? - Yeah - Seriously? - There's a one minute delay. We look at it, we look at it. where we're planning to bring 100 million tourists to visit the So you're going to see many - So Saudi Arabian airline is always that kind of mysterious And that's why I found I recently went to Saudi Arabia because the country has And let's take a look what's changed inside It's been two years - Yeah - And this is a new uniform. I have not seen something like this, I always seen blue uniform. - Yes - What exactly this is. - It is the butler position, the one who is in charge of first class. - Welcome back to this flight. This is the Saudia 787-9 Dreamliner and something different, right? I'm not in business class. I'm not in the premium I'm actually sitting in the economy the first row of economy. Why is there only, 40 passenger on board, very light. [Foreign Language] - Welcome on board My name is (indistinct) My co-pilot is Haziem. - Nice to meet you. - And we are flying our 787-939 Dreamliner. With Arabic calligraphy on We are going from Dubai together. Flying time will be two at an altitude of 38,000 ft. Welcome on board. - What's this? - There is cleaning wipes. - A cleaning kit. (foreign language) (bad sound quality due to engine) (upbeat music) (bad sound quality engine) (aeroplane engine roaring) (upbeat music) - It's really beautiful. I'm on the Saudia 787 on my way to Saudi Arabia, I want to discover what's on Saudia since the pandemic. (upbeat music) Came down to the back, to check out a standard seat with yes it is narrow, but the leg room we It has a leg rest as well. Can you go pray now? - No, I cannot pray because, prayer right now is not allowed, due to Corona. - Hi, my name is Rami. I'm the chef in Saudia. And today, one of our selections in business class, we have a shrimp cupsa with a red rices. They have selection of Arabic measure, and we have a cheesecake on the sides. - Is there any cut back in Saudia in the business class food? - No, there is no cut back. And we just continued the same - So I made the galley here and crew. Cause I really want to find during COVID as Saudia. - Hi my name is Mariam I'm from Pakistan and I worked for Saudia since 2012. It's been nine years. - Did you get a salary cut or a salary freeze? - Actually there was no It was really flat for all of us. - Really? - Yeah - No salary cuts in Saudia? - Actually, no. We were getting our - You just flew less. - Yeah we just flying, we were just flying less, but the accommodations and the privileges, it was all over there. - Right? You both from Saudi Arabia? - Yeah, both sure. - The question is, why Saudi airlines only has Saudi men? Is there any Saudi woman - Okay. Now recently, Saudi airline, they start to hiring Saudi woman. They... - For, for fly attendants position? - Yeah, as a fly attendant position. They finished their classes, And they start flying and they are starting doing their schedule and flying every day. But maybe in this fly, it didn't face anyone open. - So there are some already flying? - Yeah, - They already got their licence? - Yeah they get the and they have a open and everything else. (dramatic music playing) - Okay, see you. [Foreign Language] - Alright, Thank you. - Thank you. - Bye-bye - Just arrive at a new I remember a year and a half ago, I was here 2019 to make a nearly ready. And now he's already using it. - Welcome back (indistinctive), my friend. - Nice to see you. - Okay [Foreign language over loud Speaker] - Look how is it. Look. - It's still here. All The shark is still there. - No come, look. - Oh the shark here? - Yes - Oh Many Sting-ray Look at that. Like a aeroplane. Sting-ray flying. So as a traveller, I found many advantages using Surf Shark VPN to bypass internet censorship to found cheaper travel deals and to secure my data. Many traveller would recognise internet censorship is a huge pain you couldn't connect to your or your email. So I use Surf Shark VPN to connect to another country, to access all the content I want. And even better. I can use one subscription on VPN to access to many Netflix library. With the help of Surf Shark VPN. There are also good cheaper air tickets, cheaper hotel room and another country. When I'm travelling, I often use free public wifi and we knew that they're not secure. So I use Surf Shark VPN to Now here's the best deal for my viewer. Get Surf Shark VPN at surfshark.com/sam. Enter promo-code &quot;Sam&quot; You will get more than 80% discount and three extra months for free. This video is sponsored by Surf Shark. Good morning. Good morning from Jeddah. This is history making. This is my first time sitting in a car with a Saudi lady. She's actually driving me. - Everything has gone for better now. Women Empowerment is a topic, not only in Saudi Arabia, but globally its a hot topic. So being able to drive is one of those big changes. Being empowered at work. Having more ladies, in the work place is a big change. We've been doing great. And I think it's just, that we, we haven't been, having the opportunity to be highlighted by the media, how men are actually. - Tarien's driving really well, but this is a test now reverse parking, in the parking lot. - Here we go. - Oh, that's 10 out of 10. That's unbelievable. Better than me. (laughing) - Thank you. - Where are we travelling today? - (Ladies answer) London - London flight. I will get it. I wanted to hear that &quot;Welcome on board You see? - Yeah How we mention this. Michella, even Bria Amarella Welcome on board Amarella flight, you see? - This is Michelle class, doing the practical service for a, - Aha. - regular flight. - Okay - So this is a new hire, new cabin crew? - New hire and Saudi female. - Oh, Saudi female. Where is Saudi female? Show me - All from Saudi - All from Saudi Arabia? - Yeah. - Seriously? - Yes - Wow. Lucky me today. I got to meet early batch. Also all Saudi national female working for the airlines Saudia. So Mia, I have this question for you. Is that what makes you want to become a cabin crew work for Saudia? - Taking generosity Saudia - That's it? - Yes. - Thank you so much. How long have your training been? - We have been trained and Charlotte tomorrow its We'll learn safety, security. How to deal with the emergencies and the service and hospitality. - There's hundreds and You got selected to work for How do you feel? - It's surprising and it's it's like getting out of my comfort zone. So it's a good opportunity challenge. - Were you interested in aviation? Are you really interested in travel? - Certainly. Both to be honest - Both - Certainly it's a, to travel the world. - This is a class for upgrade from nine to five, two to five, training. - What exactly top five is? - Top five it's a type a service we give to Here we are in Deborah's orientation room, we are making a breakfast to be familiar with all the equipment for the, the serve the passenger. This is the first step of the scenario. We do it here in the actual Deli. Here we have have the coffee maker. The oven is actually the They can practise heating the meals. - Here we are to soften and our skills on the board to work more We have excellent So now it's more about the way how we serve our guests and how we deal with them. - What did you learn personally yourself? - I learned how to use my tone properly, how to choose my words carefully, when talking to the guests. How to use my gestures. How to greet people properly. - Here we teach the cabin crew, the type of seats in the For example, we have here this week flying to Washington, London, and Paris. And also here we have business class, diamond seats we call it they're flying on 787 air craft. The cabin crew, they are trained. And then the facility and fix the seat if the passenger face a problem, the practise here. - So, I am in Saudias I will meet the CEO Captain Ibrahim Koshy. But here, this is very interesting. This is actually a real propeller of the DC3. This is the gift from American President, Franklin Roosevelt's star in 1945. Given to Saudia. And that's how the You were actually an - Correct - Tell us what, what - Well, right now I'm flying a desk. But before that, I flown many of the aircraft. Most of Saudias fleet, eight, three hundreds, Boeing 737, G4, the Embraer, 777, 83-30. So I've been on most of Saudias fleet. So a lot of experience and as a check airman instructor trained many, many of the pilots that are currently flying with us. - And what's your favourite - That's one question for answering, but I love both the Boeing - We haven't heard much last year and a half, especially outside of the kingdom. We knew very little about it. You know, you gave us some updates? What is Saudia up to what's the latest development your company? - Having the COVID under allowed our domestic market 80% of our 2019 operational level. And that's a strength that we have there's we've seen in stronger recovery in the domestic market. The challenge is on What we're trying to rebuild and go beyond that restrictions imposed in various parts of the world are making that difficult. Demand recovery is difficult - Is the past tradition, the history, but moving forward your plans, I want to hear more about that from you. - Right now, when we're Saudia had started a very enabler for the vision 2030 2030, maybe not everybody's aware of it, but it is a very ambitious planning to bring 100 million of Saudi Arabia. We're planning to have 330 We're talking about increasing to 35 million passengers, So Saudi Arabian airlines as a, as an enabler to this economy great opportunity to So what we're very proud of that Saudia has been in existence, we're at a turning point because you're going to happening on the network, on a new hub coming in for the airport. We're working on operational digital customer experience next two years. So you're going to see many We know the numbers for 2030 for a hundred million passengers. That's the vision 2030. And we consider Saudia airlines, the wings of vision 2030. So it's interesting. dashboard here. It's something that but all of the executives in following up anything. And as light as a one minute delay. Every executive in the airline Something flagged as a 30 it takes a major, let's say a tone and everybody root cause and we're working towards, because one of the towards is a very high OTP for - So, for my visit, I can really feel things are A couple of years ago, it would be impossible to have seeing Saudi national female So the airline has been recently world's most improved airline, but it still has a long way to go. Personally I think Saudia if they can execute I think the airlines set a turning point. What's interesting will be the how Saudia develop itself footprint.