"Now... ROT!" hours into 'Elden Ring' when I realized I needed I had tried to chart the game's festering ruins rotting world captivated me like only a few ever is the key to great worldbuilding -- but after and sacrificing some expired bread, I the most powerful devices in fiction. Because You can hear it if you listen closely. The squelch of the old world, the hush of a billion dreams sound of 'digestive rebirth' -- an idea central worldbuilding. I'm using the term digestion rather worlds: post-apocalyptic landscapes left barren world is actively feeding, consuming its own is this concept more apparent than in the games of in a realm where rot devours both nations and gods the gastric humus giving rise to a thousand new moldy worlds exist in a state of constant gnawing, to create a future. Moldy worldbuilding does not regions of Elden Ring, while the land of Caelid Limgrave erode under coverings of vegetation. they fester upon the bones of ages past, the very the world itself feels like an archeological have loyally tried to excavate. The devotion has inspired speaks to the larger power of a each ruin is a story. The most basic and what is overgrown wreckage but a proof of a so common in narrative-focused games: a simple building means to an audience, suggesting a vast among the most effective ways to make a setting history without even a single line of exposition. and putrefying catacombs indicate an extensive is motivated to read through the in-game lore. in the kingdoms of George RR. Martin's A Song of the series is set after the collapse of various case with Skyrim, in all corners of Martin's shadows over lesser present dwellings, the current of their forbearers. One could even call such moldy worldbuilding overlaps with the concept, but take root. Time alone can swallow a civilization enigmatic remnants. For beyond acting as a story, outside of Whiterun broken? Why was the ice wall all? It's not entirely clear, and though various that an eroded world leaves you with only adds to rotting settings layer mystery upon mystery, In Elden Ring, the corpse of a dragon festers atop the awe-inspiring Walking Mausoleums are stone and burdened with a second layer of crumbling wreckage adds subtle depth to a world. Part so fully realized is because its environments Nomad genocide, but remnants from countless other that many go unnamed and unremarked upon. In every eras mar the background -- a throughline that both and makes the setting feel authentically grounded one could compare to, like, those cross sections with like the bones and stuff? Or even... a greater whole. The worldbuilding of the show with the vestiges of multiple epochs all mushed archeologist while watching each episode: using cartoon about a boy and his magic dog was set Armageddons -- resulting in the ultimate hodgepodge every additional level of moldering leftovers, a dumping a junkyard worth of scrap upon a setting however -- true moldy perfection requires current populace. The most interesting scrapheap that have learned to make use of the discharge of entire cultures exist based on the repair and are typically set in Earth's imagined future, but Elden Ring could be considered a scrapyard materials, and the only new structures are meager Perhaps the largest scrapyard ever envisioned is every other planet is a landfill of debris from whose employment seems like 90% scrap-rummager. universe helps the setting feel lived in -- the this is a world filthy with use and reuse, where has gone through multiple retrofits. As is often of the eras that came long before, prior to those impression of history even if you have no convey backstory to the audience, the characters the context to understand the very relics they common in stories where there is a significant current inhabitants and the civilizations that often played for laughs: "We're about to lose our that can emerge between a society and the defaced of tragic false interpretations. The recent surprisingly layered investigation into the the setting, there's the obvious dramatic irony structures which dominate the land were built by subtler misconstruction of the apes' own heritage. the banner of the ancient ape-leader of Ceaser, pretext for zealous conquest. "The Masks take how even the most well-intentioned philosophy can positing that it is not just buildings that rot an idea, of a system of principles, is an abstract make physical. In the ever-relevant setting of manifestation of the order of the world. Before shattered by a vengeful deity -- adding context realms of Elden Ring are filled with deities their own bodies) in exchange for greater power. A a divine dragon forges a sword from seemingly without hesitation as an offering to the divine -- sacrificed for the chance at grasping additional mentally, so too do the larger belief-systems abandoned and in disrepair, the statues of philosophies. In this land of forsaken principles, the present they're never mentioned anywhere else or was something vital lost when their names melancholy to an overlooked structure that clearly Rings is filled with such megaliths, some of which away in total obscurity. Tolkien famously wrote text, and would sometimes intentionally leave out Lord of the Rings is deeply mournful of the idea simultaneously offers hope that such losses can be Ring does not seem so fixable, however. There is the entire realm like a single mass grave, to know whom to offer condolences. It is a world in eulogies from unreliable narrators. Perhaps the the walls outside the capital still standing structures appear to be in the early stages of for eternity. Themes of a kingdom succumbing to setting: all those cool-looking ruins have to come represents in-narrative varies significantly. the destruction of the kingdom of Hyrule is a nation of gentleness and prosperity, and the been written about how haunting they feel, each to forget. Scars from a similar battlefield the emotions of the scenery are... less clear-cut. an army tried and failed to overtake the city, but this realm, if their cause was just or unjust -- the forces were repelled, the city seems to have one can find ruined battlements presented without the simplest one: that it is the birthright of Old Hyrule is far from the only kingdom whose realm a cemetery of cultures that must have once some of the oldest ruins are ironically the most level of achievement can fully safeguard against as just the latest in a long and predictable so consistently resonant is because it reminds us it cannot be brought low by time. When exploring not to think about how the people who lived in would last forever. A similar feeling creeps margins of Elden Ring, each titanic cadaver as and forgotten despite their obvious former might. unconquerable, before the rot set in? Impossibly moldy worldbuilding prevalent across genres. In form of immense superstructures, left festering collapsed from their hubris. This trope is a adding a little moldy sauce to the lore-broth, the game series Halo and Mass Effect. In both left behind by a collapsed forerunner species for on the carcasses of the past in familiar digestive this turns out to be varies greatly, with the same up when the new upstarts try to appropriate the these stories suggest, can prove too rotted to skeleton too decayed, too putrid at its core to be Elden Ring's capital of Leyndell, the greatest the heavens, and yet this city feels sick in a architecture of the city recalls Minas Tirith of feel like they're rotting out from under it, with about building up their legacy, than if the city the burden of the unfathomably titanic Erdtree, a of the land, a physical manifestation of the together. And yet the roots of the Erdtree are the city, and carving deep catacombs where corpses say -- although the lore of Elden Ring is frankly it -- but the tree itself might in fact be a kind and the lands beyond while offering nothing hierarchy of layers, and if the bottom becomes the entire structure will come crashing down. You buckle under the mass of its topside from the impeccable example of sociological worldbuilding, and bloated city of Piltover, and the festering you look, there is evidence these layers are not to come crashing down. A metropolis built too-tall idea, both in fiction and also outside of it. In of multiple mildewing layers are a foundational I'm serious, there are always white birds in these for scale, but it's a legit trend that if you see Anyway, birds or no birds, there is something the municipal deterioration recalling any number the thing -- Planet Earth's worldbuilding is, how many actual cities are built atop more ruins you can see to this day. Earth is a setting past. I think that's part of moldy worldbuilding is because it is realistic. We don't always think is filled with the kinds of epic kingdoms and of fantasy, with cultures that are unfamiliar from the imposing remains of their crumbling its share of 'semi-apocalypses:' the bronze-age on the first draft of civilization. Technology the same way that in Martin's A Song of Ice and the only new Valyrian Steel swords must be melted history, steel sword-making techniques have been Greek Fire is an even mightier piece of technology supposedly burn green even when exposed to water. Fire,' and just in like our reality, all records mildewed away -- which sounds too fantastical to be how to make Greek Fire after centuries of trying. 'moldy worldbuilding:' an endless cycle of rot why barnacles and rust, grime and weathering are way to make a fictional map look more genuine is are the key to physicality -- that's why you use so much film grain and glitch effects in their physical media formats. I think there's at least a physical media, not just in how material storage maps at the start of fantasy novels, or material your audience something corporeal and capable setting in their hands. The indie game Tunic is game's world there are the layers of ruins upon worth its salt, but there are also pages of a faux strategy guide comes marked with all the little with various sections including little pen doodles player. And I know I filled all my old guides of history in the same way a piece of wreckage How much comfort one can find in the records of philosophy. There is a portion of me that is past, be they real or virtual, and know that they there is also a portion of me that is comforted me -- that the world has endured long before this moldy setting is a realistic one, a storied one, maybe what has rotted has rotted for good, but be... regurgitated, it can still feed the growth of waiting to be dug up. "Ugh, that's gross. I don't There's one massive unanswered question that settings actually qualify as 'post-apocalyptic?' Wild" post-apocalyptic? Is... "Lord of the Rings" straightforward answer, because -- as I discovered traditionally think of the 'post-apocalypse'. I that I couldn't fit it into the conclusion of video where I dive deep into worlds like Akupara both of which originally played a much larger deserve their own dedicated video. You can watch That's not all, though, because Nebula isn't just it's the best place to watch hundreds of incredible Original productions that are showing Nicholas's Boomers, a 2 hour documentary on the remarkable platform, enabling creators like myself all while offering a wide range of exclusive we could make on our own. So sign up for Nebula at nebula.tv/curiousarchive. Plus, every Nebula on Nebula with friends or family for a week nebula.tv/curiousarchive to check out all my thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this subscribing, and hitting the notification icon to stay up to date on all things