[delicate music] Gold. Born pure and immaculate in the heart of dying mankind since time immemorial. What enrapturing magic lies in that soft yellow Why has gold enchanted so many for so long yet firm embrace? What mysteries lie in gold if we dare to follow folds of gold's sweet Hey, is this getting weird for anyone else? [aggressive dubstep] Gold. I can't be the only one who's getting spammed Whether it's overpolished YouTube spots, courses a lot of people seem to want me, Dan Most ads for investments are fairly similar of daily life, but this one caught my attention. Idris Elba - "I'm going to tell you a There's nothing else like it. A miracle of nature. I'm talking about gold." That is The Suicide Squad's own Idris Elba by the "World Gold Council"... whoever I'm assuming they were the villains from 'Gold: A Journey with Idris Elba' promises adventure peering into the fascinating and element seventy nine, the ways gold intersects well... I'm not going to bury the lede here, this It is not particularly good. But! Its existence is interesting. These kinds of celebrity-hosted corporate and age, usually relegated to industry trade back corner of some regional museum's geology The Mineral Journey sponsored by the World You know, that kind of thing. What's unusual is how hard it's being If you even glanced at something finance related as an ad. "What is i about gold that's got us so There's no sticking one in your pocket and Now, first of all, in the abstract a documentary I'd watch. Gold is a genuinely compelling subject worthy team with, like, a travel budget and at least mine. You could fill the running time of a documentary gold, its resistance to corrosion, its malleability, of physics and chemistry, inform its place Gold is at once a practical and useful metal, connects its actual uses and various imposed Any comprehensive answer to the question "what unavoidably carries an emotional component, So here's some fun facts about gold: Gold is incredibly resistant to corrosion. The main threats to things humans build and and gold is, for all intents and purposes, It neither rusts nor rots, and aside from Gold is pretty rare. Of the 94 naturally occurring elements found up 4x10^-7 percent of the crust. Even though it is rare in terms of the total is widespread, with significant deposits on Also "relatively rare" in the context full of the stuff in human terms. Despite this rarity gold has historically nuggets being found in surface-level deposits, Since it doesn't corrode, gold exposed by Gold is extremely malleable, to the point thick, and then those threads can be stretched It can be rolled into sheets so thin that structural integrity. It can be polished so smooth it is the material such as those in space telescopes. Gold is hard enough to make useful household with stone tools without smelting. Gold isn't consumed by most of the things and repurposed simply by smelting it into St. Edward's Crown could easily be reduced time in history after English Parliament melted We did it once before, Charles. We can do it again. As a result of all of these cosmic coincidences and its basic industrialization has been invented Putting all that another way, unlike basically a trinket made of gold can be sunk to the of years and be dug up functionally unchanged. The timeline of gold is the timeline of geology. This physical trait, this resilience, gives Even this little cheap little souvenir bottle it is "a gift of remaining value." There is a narrative around gold that starts its own collection of cultural signifiers, about gold will inevitably intersect technology, So when we talk of gold we're really talking all sharing a name: gold, the element, gold, it is this last one that is the subject of Not everything is rosy for gold. Gold as a commodity faces a number of challenges and some more modern. Gold has, dare I say, a bit of an image problem. Gold, for a long list of reasons that are of conspiracy theorists, preppers, and and They hoard it, they accuse governments of zeal. "Come in. How do you plan on supporting my granddaughter I'm only 17, sir. What can provide her with the brightest future? A home? Wrong! Gold! Gold? It's never too early or late to secure your For my younger viewers, this is real. This isn't, this isn't a Tim and Eric the guy who did burglaries for Nixon sincerely So safe to say nothing attracts a crank quite the wider public thinks of gold as an investment. "Call Rosland Capital and tell them Gordon Alright, I want to take a second just to unwind Despite the popularity of gold amongst people they're working from isn't un-sound. If you were an investor back in the Netherlands return over almost 400 years, tulips or gold? In the long run you can be pretty confident valuable in the indeterminate future. So on one hand gold as an abstract financial on the other hand while gold is a safe bet thing in your 5-year portfolio. Gold doesn't pay interest, so it didn't climate of the bull run, but it's also less And for the "sound money" gold-standard competition from cryptocurrency. The majority of the accessible gold has probably years of panning and digging we've found New discoveries and new operations are becoming As the documentary demonstrates with breathless big, high-production mines, are thousands massive volumes of rock. "You feel stress?" "It's that, it's the idea that we're earth." Mines are also under increasing scrutiny. The average consumer is more aware than ever There's both consciousness of the systemic about working conditions. For instance, Less than two weeks before the collapsed, killing at least nine miners. So, we're going to, for now, set aside the all, whether or not the gold that they're first place, and just for a moment put ourselves We don't need to empathise with them, but Mine operators don't dig up and hoard gold it up and sell it. Making a profit from a gold mine requires Mining operations have enormous upfront costs, by bearish sentiment elsewhere. Gold has its best days when the market is This means that operating a gold mine can to the price of gold. Even small increases in the value of gold And in reverse, small decreases or lengthy Gold may be the safe pick in the long term, can lead to a lot of anxiety. Enter the World Gold Council. The WGC is one of the world's leading authorities Council is comprised exclusively of major The organisation's sole purpose is to push That isn't an accusation, it's not even The World Gold Council is extremely up front of its members, who are, again, big mining The organisation was founded in mid-1987 by And they were absolutely forward-thinking, value would begin a sustained decline that These sorts of lobby and marketing groups just a specific company or brand but an entire non-profit organizations as a result. The World Gold Council exists in a weird spot They lobby governments, they spin market trends, their ultimate goal is to convince serious their money into gold mines. Their clients sell literal gold, the WGC sells "You are precious, you are brilliance, you "Bro, I've been there, but gold saved "A tip for you. Visit invest dot gold." "Visit invest dot gold to see why gold is "Stability, security, protection. You shouldn't have to choose. Gold. Your strategic advantage. Visit goldhub dot com." Like, this isn't just online crank forum represent tiny "artisanal" mines that Their main goal is convincing investors to that will move millions of tons of rock; they So while their job is propaganda, they are on gold. But that doesn't stop the World Gold Council theories, typically painting it as a psy-op. "I long concluded that the World Gold Council Gold Council." So you can try, but you'll never escape "Well there's some of us who have suspected a, it's another mechanism in the tool of to be able to use the public's investment to keep the price down, that it's another So, "Gold: A Journey with Idris Elba" Again, don't take it from us, take it from the World Gold Council. "The documentary was commissioned, simply to help the world really understand the value transformative power, you know." We're going to come back to this interview It's... very interesting, but, yeah, then points. "Yeah I think there's a couple of key I'm just gonna highlight a few. The first is that, for every one job that jobs around the community of that gold mine A lot of people don't realise that." It is as subtle as, a gold-plated toilet The documentary itself has a bit more of a in with the info but, not that deft a hand. "These things, even though they mean a lot weight of the money that they" "100%" "Like you know it's not like it's ever "100%. It's the same thing. Buying gold, they're investments." That isn't subtext, that's just text. The documentary allegedly features Idris Elba to shed light on humanity's ancient relationship In actuality, it's a virtual-tour of gold Gold Council, and each segment exists to either industry, or pitch the mine as an investment Elba visits mines in Canada and South Africa, Osei Tutu II in Ghana, gets a tour of a Bank hip-hop jeweller Abs the Jeweller, and narrates in India, the California gold rush, and a in Peru. Like, just to be clear - every mine credited corporation. And they play us all the hits. Gold mines foster local economies, they build up after themselves, they're even on the Though... On that note... even the doc doesn't bother endeavour. It's because they lose more to sick days "Out of the work force of eight thousand eight hundred of these employees and their malaria. So the mine decided to establish a malaria It's hard to overlook the fact that the with the grandness of the subject matter, The documentary is unique partly because it The film is composed of a series of four to be looping in the corner of a museum installation. The fact that something so insubstantial is in itself. They had Idris-Elba money, and chose to spend "Wow, look at how hot that is." On that note, a common discussion point about It's very strange. There are times when Idris is energised. "So today is the very special Ashanti Akwasidae I've been honoured to be asked to be part There are times when he's clearly working "into the... centre of the Earth."] "I tell you what, it's so exciting. This is so exciting. It's the first time I've ever seen gold And in the sound booth, Idris has a very stilted It could be a deliberate choice, but it feels teleprompting that is slightly too far away. "But for me, and I'm pretty sure I'm is being able to wear it." For comparison, here is Elba's performance "To understand how club culture has become to go back to a scene that started on New It was the 70s, and the city was suffering." Idris has close ties to Ghana and has spent in the region. During his trip where he met the Ashanti King, policy - and was planning to bring an upcoming &quot;...we could case study my film as a proof To what extent this influenced his decision But it's plainly obvious that Idris really "Wow. Look at how hot that is." What we're left with is a very standard voice actor and overly dramatic framing. For the most part, the documentary is just The doc makes boring decisions for self-interested By way of example, India has the second highest The two combine to make up half the world's This makes the World Gold Council very invested So we get a short sequence in India that alludes This is a big and genuinely interesting subject, have time to do 'interesting'. The nuanced significance of gold in Hindu this very odd and uniform notion of "respect". Here's Joe specifically responding to a gold with "spiritual respect"... whatever "We come on your program regularly, we talk significance of India as a market. Play close attention where Idris sees a young They talk in great detail about how its significant the passing on of that dowry, it's more about Okay, so, this doesn't actually happen. For one; Idris isn't there, he doesn't only focuses on the bride's gold jewellery. The dowry isn't acknowledged at all, likely to throw at a western audience. But this is the essence of the documentary but inoffensive corporate spin on a shallow But there are, of course, issues that are The subjects of colonialism and environment The doc has a sequence in Johannesburg where are quarantined. The film cedes some ground on this, acknowledging intersected with racism. Elba interviews Frans Baleni, who worked in of a key miner's strike. During that interview, the two don't pull They are carrying no water for the mines. "we were not really looked after. We were almost like slaves, because what they However, this film was commissioned by mining So... "There's no hiding from the fact No hiding, yeah "that gold mining played a major part" Uh huh "in shaping South African society during Yeah?! "But with gold" [Airhorn noises] The doc then very awkwardly frames gold as "But with gold comes power, and those gold Because you see... gold, by being so useful, By withholding their labour, and denying the black community was empowered. It's a subtle reframing of a labour strike withholding of product. An inert mineral is stealing the valour of It's very weird. We're then abruptly moved to South Deep, use of remote vehicles operated from the surface. This is an interesting novelty, and genuinely for at least some stuff, but it doesn't of Apartheid. But as they talk about mechanization, they for gender equality amongst the workers, and "There are ladies who are miners, crew leaders, Its purpose in the Text is to absolve the By saying 'here is what happened then, and argues that mining companies have fixed the "Chu chu chu" That's already wild on its face, but even One is a serious, politically charged conversation exploitation; the other is about the quirks job. The argument does not land at all, but the undeserved confidence that it has tackled Then there's the subject of the environment. Obviously there is no nuanced discussion of the companies come out of it looking good. So the mandate is simple: say as little as successes. So, that explains why the New Zealand segment But it just sucks. It sucks so bad. The topic is specifically on the closure and up' after themselves. The segment focuses on the reclamation of of New Zealand. The entire sequence is four minutes long, of the mine. We see that the main pit has been filled with to plant seeds from a helicopter. We're then treated to a CG render of what unstated point in the future. We close on some B-roll of wildlife, and we're Here is the totality of material on the pit. "When the mine closed in 2016, their first into a lake. It's nice, but it still looks like a mine If I held stock in Oceana Gold I would be Anyone with any general knowledge of mining that this is a pit lake - the same toxic, Scott video. "It is a mile wide and so deep you could upright in it. Or at least you could if the pit wasn't "It looks inviting, but you wouldn't want That is dark, lonely water. It looks toxically blue, and it is. It's alkaline, it's got a pH above 11, "Tell you what that water's nice and blue But the Reefton pit is not like those pit that reason - that's why we're here. Okay, just to back up for a sec. We all know about abandoned mines. A company would work a mine until either the would just walk away. In the case of open-cut mines like Reefton, to create artificial bodies of water. Pit lakes, or quarry lakes, are exceptionally that we'll just put up on screen here for The majority of fatalities at abandoned mines You may also be familiar with famous sites Berkeley's pit lake is so contaminated by "mined" directly from the lake water. This makes the water toxic, and if the pit gatorade will spill into the general water In response the US Environmental Protection reach that critical level, so the water must even with that over the years they've had it's really hard to keep water from getting The Berkeley Pit is a particularly high profile out there, each with their own risk factors. Believe it or not Tom Scott hasn't even This is not a minor problem, this is one of the thing you are doing at an elemental level Until very recently it was considered progressive policy. Mining companies can leave behind a pit that need to put up a fence. Needless to say this doesn't do much to Once a pit lake is established, it's incredibly dealing with massive volumes of water, which not much care for where you do and do not So the solution is simple, don't let mining produce a toxic pit. That is a complex, multi-disciplinary process. So, that brings us back to Reefton. In 2004, OceanaGold received approval to operate As part of this, they were subject to heavy of the mine- which included the posting of was money set aside to cover the restoration An operations director for the Department describing it as "world class". Unlike mining operators in the past, OceanaGold ahead of time. They're one of the first to make use of at Cardiff University. "By oxygenating the water before it enters the water comes out of solution, turning it The iron particulate then gently settles on Iron naturally attracts other metals, and from the water. The water continues its gravity fed course into Devils Creek. Extensive testing has proven that the Vertical and iron from the water. Over time, the metals will be exhausted from and the pods will continue to naturally spill I'm sorry, why wasn't any of this in the The helicopter is not what makes Reefton interesting. It's the ecological restoration that, literally, "The wooding material that we've placed little micro-climates for other species that as these ferns." Reefton may be the best example of reclamation The World Gold Council must think so, otherwise But the doc doesn't want to dig into the to celebrate what makes Reefton noteworthy 'Hey, these guys have almost cracked the 'Wait, what toxic pit problem?' It's also hard to overlook the fact that in New Zealand, South Korea, and the USA. You know, wealthy nations. It's one thing for New Zealand to strong-arm to a national park, but what about countries Human rights organizations have repeatedly rights around their Didipio mine dating back and arson, and have repeatedly recommended It was not. And the UN has denounced the "unnecessary local residents as recently as 2020. Can Filipino residents expect OceanaGold to to restore their land? Odds aren't great! The work being done at Reefton is interesting sense of the word. The documentary went to New Zealand to cherry but still managed to stuff it up. The documentary is only willing to engage restoration - specifically the tree planting. "It's really just gardening. But supersized." In its brief runtime, the documentary focuses not what the restoration project is about. "So we're not trying to hide the fact our best to put it back." The community doesn't need the mine's to clean up their crap and avoid poisoning But the documentary would leave viewers believing planting trees around an inevitable hazard. The documentary manages to misrepresent both It omits the actual reason why closed mines restoration being carried out at the site. The result is that the environmental activists are pissed off, and you, the viewer, are bored. This sucks. Once the doc is satisfied that it has addressed as a thing, it's happy to drop the pretense 15 minutes. Idris is given a tour of the Bank of England. "I've got an appointment with the bank's One of the very few people with access to Sarah John." Anyway, Idris gawks at gold bullion for a discuss the 2004 Boxing Day tsunami. "On the 26th of December, 2004, there was The Boxing Day tsunami is the deadliest natural confirmed deaths in Indonesia alone, mostly "But in Aceh, there was something unusual You see, most people didn't have saving Instead, they had gold ingots and jewellery, and start putting their lives back together." So we get that little gold nugget, before jeweller. "Abtin Abbasi, or Abs for short, is part Hop. "Like you know it's not like it's ever It's the same thing. Buying gold, they're investments." The final segment is functionally an ad for still in their speculative stages before the "So, the story of gold. To me, it's really a love story. Like all romances, it's had its up and downs." What downs Idris? What downs? What do you think the downs might be? Here, here, I've got my notes ready to go, "They're all part of our relationship Hey, is this getting weird for anyone else? The core audience for the documentary has Your standard Goldbugs have lovebombed the Like crypto bros and Apes, there is a vested a tool of propaganda, leading to the same On the complete other end of the spectrum, to the film with outright hostility. Framing it as a deliberate misinformation that may be. "I'm willing to bet your coming WGC gold cartoon. You won't dare to try to choke down some current day canard of modern day gold price But for us, the documentary's cardinal sin A documentary on gold could be interesting, But this is what you get when filmmakers try industry. The potential is there, but the documentary it cannot stray. Gold is so culturally significant in India That's fascinating, but if you really dug dowry thing, and your American investors might not say anything, just talk about how pretty If we praise Reefton's water quality, then toxic pit lakes that we normally leave behind "Wait, what toxic pit problem?" So better to just focus on the trees. Corporate interests smother the compelling form. Essential material is absent, and what material Funny thing is that this isn't even the In 2021 they released a miniseries called Wait, sorry, not a miniseries, a "landmark impact on humanity's past, present and future." The hook for this one was that they found or another, aerospace and the like, and then "Gold is critically important to make MOXY But it's all the same problem, there are just tell a story where gold is a thematic subjects, you need gold to be the main character. So the whole thing turns into a parade of projects as though the most important thing Like, sure, we detected gravitational waves, how colliding neutron stars generate a lot "What scientists saw that day was gold being The gold created in this collision will cycle form part of another planet" The impression isn't that gold is a kinda physical properties, but literally magic. And when I say "there are interests being these people are very explicit. It's in the press release! "The purpose of the documentary is to increase the minds of investors and consumers alike." It's kinda maddening, I get so used to dealing smuggle in some ulterior agenda and the World "Guard it with gold. So when the unexpected happens and the world So, the thing that I find compelling here pieces, because the fact that someone decided was worth the hundreds of thousands of dollars Idris Elba was paid, that in and of itself The World Gold Council doesn't just decide his face across the internet because they're They don't make a documentary about how they think it's neat. They do it because there's something that It ends up so weird and stilted because they're but those ideas are completely foreign to I want to go back to that interview with Joe that these guys are just living in an alternate So, there's this phrase we're all familiar a gold rush, the best way to get rich in a to sell shovels. It's kinda a dark phrase, isn't it? Like, at a basic level it speaks to some grimmer delusion. It's a phrase about crass pragmatism in You would think that a guy who represents maybe find the phrase a bit distasteful, but of the word. "You know a lot of people fail to remember successful and very wealthy man, and that There's a bit in the story about it" "No, that was a great part of this movie." "Yeah it's a fun story to understand and mining, but it's about everything in the "Yeah, it's not just about selling shovels, those that are using the picks and the axes" There's no sentimentality here. There's money to be made. And the thing is that Joe is ultimately a Like, okay, on one hand Joe represents companies shovels. But the people digging up literal gold aren't panic-buying machine parts. The entire thesis of the World Gold Council in a turbulent market. It's not just a thing for cranks and weirdos trapped shed, gold is for slick, elegant, Ordinary, yet classy. The WGC wants you to know that this could "Gold is everyone's asset." We live in turbulent times, and the market path for building wealth. That's the gold rush, and Joe, with his social media ads is trying to sell you a shovel. [Dubstep] [Idris Elba auto-tuned repeating "Gold"