Stuck at an intersection, you always watch unfold On green, the first car accelerates, and then the next, and then the next, and then the next, and then you, only to catch the red. Had the cars accelerated simultaneously you would have made it through. Coordination - not cars - is the problem, because we are and short attention spans. Even if we tried getting everyone to would be challenging. This dis-coordination limits and when one backs up to the next, that's when city-sized gridlock cascades In general, more intersections equals more This is the motive behind big highways: Splits and merges, yes. Intersections, no. No stopping, no coordination problems, no traffic Well that's the theory anyway. Intersections outside of a highway Again, because human reaction times when the light changes. But, even without intersections, Traffic can just appear. Take a one lane highway with happy cars flowing until a chicken crosses the road. The driver who sees it brakes a little, the driver behind him doesn't notice immediately the driver behind him does the same and, oh look, cars approaching at highway Though the chicken is long gone, This is what's happened when &quot;There must be a deadly pile up ahead&quot; with no wreckage in sight, and mild annoyance if you aren't. You just pass through a the cause of which is long gone. And this phantom intersection moves. It's really a traffic snake slithering down the road eating oncoming cars at one end On a ring road, a single car slowing down will start an Ouroboros of traffic that will last forever, even though there's no problem with the road. If the drivers could coordinate to easy driving would return. But they can't, so traffic eternal. On highways, traffic snakes grow and they shrink if excreted faster than eaten, dying when the last car accelerates away Now, in multi-lane highways, A driver crossing lanes quickly to birth a traffic snake that lives for It's this quick crossing that causes But we *can* make traffic Your goal as a driver is to as from the car behind at all times. Tailgating is trouble. Not just because because you as the tailgater can start a Always in the middle! This gives you the most time but also gives the driver And when stuck in traffic, this rule would get all cars to pull apart the snake faster. That's the simple solution to traffic: perhaps by sharing this video to show why tailgaters are trouble, and how we can work together to make the roads better for all. The End. Except, yeah... wishing upon a star that people are Every time. Instead, what works is a which is exactly what self-driving cars are. Self-driving cars can just be programmed to stay in the middle and accelerate simultaneously. They'll just do it. The more self-driving cars at an intersection, A solid lane of self-driving cars Hmm, actually! If you ban humans from the road you can get rid of the intersection entirely. After all, a traffic light is just a tool for drivers on another, poorly and coarsely. Red equals &quot;Don't go now, Green equals &quot;good to go.&quot; But self-driving cars can talk with that kind of coordination, no traffic light necessary. Just as with the highway, the best Humans will never drive this precisely. At the intersection, the fundamental problem with traffic that you watch unfold, as well as everything, is people. So the real simple solution to traffic: is no more monkeys driving cars. This video has been brought to you with over 180,000 audiobooks Get a free trial today by going to audible.com/grey If you like thinking about how the future can be better, why not read the Elon Musk biography: &quot;Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future&quot; is available at Audible. Give it a listen with your free 30-day trial that you can Audible is the place I go to for all of my audio books, and you should too. It's a near endless universe of Give them a try and thanks to Audible for