Hey guys welcome to Ken Tamplin Vocal Academy and going to take you on a really cool journey frustration okay. Now I want to tell you a little I have over 40 records out you can go to I've toured the world for around 25 years and and what doesn't. I also have a lot of music in in my name and see all the TV shows from Baywatch So I'm not your average YouTuber and, and not want to start there because it's going to save you some of the world's greatest vocal coaches and they're very conflicting and confusing and, and know so they couldn't really demonstrate this. Well to come along for this ride. I promise if you want time. Now I do have a singing course, the course is find it right here at Ken Tamplin Vocal Academy.com have a free singing forum on my website that has in there for those of you that want to learn also have over 1100 videos on YouTube of really the tires get your feet wet to see if singing is singing to any kind of level because of lack want anyone to hear me I don't feel like I'm which I have a video out you should check it out put that in the description, just go and kind of going to really want to to check all this stuff of time, a lot of energy, a lot of frustration second thing is, is the complaint that you get learn to sing, is they hate their vocal tone. I hate know whatever or I just can't get any range, you know I do all this stuff and, and it's true true story. Yes you know I've been singing a spent around a million dollars on my voice with I've done and testing what works and what doesn't, very little stamina. In fact I would go hoarse like to sing hard and some of you say well I let, baby steps. Let's just talk about baby lot of information on YouTube and I've yet on the actual true, legitim, legitimate building very first thing, I know I've said this before in down even further. Again if you want to learn how you'll be blown away at the gains and Support. Support is king. This is what I want and I want you to write up on a wall that every time you try to do a scale or something with go down my checklist okay so support is king. I'm a minute. The second thing is a relaxation response This is extremely important okay. So you're stave off and shake off the stress because this, is the engine that drives your car for singing. I because without this, the rest of this becomes like you know with his feet you know right instead of an this, everything else collapses or at best you're for yourself that are going to frustrate you and, saying you can't do it, see I told you suck, I did plenty of that and I had the plenty support, relaxation response in the chest in What is the vocal tract, it's a fancy word the details of that but I do have some really support. I'm going to cover it now but I also free, about what it takes and what is required range, pitch control, you name it, this is your man way it doesn't start to mount tension and then straining and squeezing and pinching in the throat in the back of the throat we're going to talk in your throat to start building good resonance to this is achieved we build muscle memory to get better pitch, control etc okay. Now before we get we're just gonna do something called a lip drill. the internet and seen this and like I said I've don't build this from the ground up. So the first is for guys I'm going to do one for ladies also what would be considered your testitura. Now I am as a high baritone as are most males okay. There's there, no but there's some some baris and basses where most guys sing. So some of you say I know with your lips and you can't really move them. Now some people do this (sounds) where they pinch their lips together or their cheeks You can do that to start but I suggest you move away from that and just really just walk around the house and just go (sounds) wet the lips, kind of get them wet (sounds) because you're looking for a relaxation response tensed up it's, they can't do it because they don't this when I first started singing I had to learn it. So if you can't do it just know you're not practice okay. You can start this way but I suggest to get past that. Now we're gonna do a simple way down here. So if it's too low for you, guys you okay. So now I wanna go. That's the scale right. I'm not I said it's the engine that drives your car. I'm going to break this down and then I'm going to play a game of Simon says with you. Right the breath and using diaphragmatic support. If matter what I confuse you with in your throat and you don't take your breath and you don't have throat will collapse, you're going to pinch and you're getting all frustrated okay. So we're going you're going to put on a wall, on a chalkboard. going to look at okay do I support before I do lip drill, nothing I'm gonna go did I support right. Then am am I supposed to do okay. Support, relaxate. I'm gonna do it nice and slow. Just try to match the tones as best as possible. Now for a lot of baritones and high baris and to feel it pull there a little bit like, gosh I'm and that is because you're trying to or your call register, or maybe are different and I don't have the time to speaking in my speaking register right now. I'm calling out to someone. There's something that awkward yodel that you have between simplification purposes I'm just gonna refer to voice okay. Chest voice, head voice. I'm gonna Do it with me again. You're probably feeling And that's because you're trying to stay in want to roll into head voice just to wake up the more advanced singers do is when they're in a rush, you do that it puts strain on the voice and no hurt the voice at a point where you kind of get that you had when you were singing in the shower So what happens is you kind of shock the voice me up too quickly. You want to take your time So if you want to roll into chest voice so that you can relax and wake the Right there I'm rolling into Let's come back down. If your lips don't move, kind of lick them, keep them wet because it makes Okay now as I promised I was going to come up the voice a little bit. Now I was using Now if you don't use diaphragmatic going (sounds) and hardly going up at all and feeling want to practice this idea or this concept of you to build stress in the stomach or tension in understand, am I using diaphragmatic support. So I this breath from your stomach right here, you're in so much from your chest it's from your your hey, breathe in again, hey and you're gonna feel this is what it would sound like. Hey, hey, hey, hey the engine that would drive my car. So I'm another exercise and it's called the tongue it's worthy okay. You're gonna have the feeling your throat and the vowel that you're gonna sing sensation of singing the word love, uh, la, oveokay. We're going to go like this (sounds) from my stomach. Hey, hey (sounds). Okay so every single scale we you're not going to use as much air help you understand the beginning stages I got it okay. Hey I'm calling out hey. Okay I got that strength. Take the breath, relax the stomach. Remember The support and the relaxation response so between so that it doesn't be like the guy that's doing reps and his relaxing point he thinks is here that's not relaxing at all because it doesn't stomach to be able to do this over and over in the chest, in the neck and in You feel that pulling sensation again at the top if you're going (sounds) you're trying to pull your chest voice up. Go This is just to open up and wake up the cords. Think of the word uh like love See even her, there you heard my yodel a little bit we're gonna talk about training the did that. I'm not warmed up today, I'm cool that even I, I still kind of have to And if you do hear the yodel it's pulled back the volume to where you could without hearing that yodel to Cool did you remember to do the breath between each your chalkboard and say man I can kind of feel in my neck, it's kind of, feeling in the back and this bad boy down here is going to relax all this is you're starting to get a little bit of a bright brighter huh. Hey, hey it's kind of getting brighter. and that's one of them and that bright ping is So the overuse of air is the arch enemy to the gonna happen is you dry out the cords and you called dysphonia. Dysphonia is just the lack Now so we're to move on to the next Now why this ah vowel is so important is that vowel and let me explain why. The ah vowel is the hearing me use the word vocal tract or vocal tract ah vowel, since it's the biggest vowel we have ee it's smaller or ooh is really small right. and build up as much sound pressure in the throat, an ooh you go from a big sound to a small sound. and I don't have time to cover all that. I if you guys want to take your studies further, course called How to Sing Better Than Anyone Else and the back of the throat, I recommend that you can look at when you're doing this. I don't care if got a credenza in your in your living room or, or I want you to look at the back of your throat and I want you to go uh, uh and you're gonna go oh wow I'm, I'm not really opening my throat very much am I. Ken wants me to He's looking with a flashlight in the back and he does is is it drops the tongue to the base of the Now you're gonna be shocked as you start going your tongue go back and constrict in the back your tongue and you're wondering why it sounds you have the socks, a sock stuffed in the back a pillow or something right, because the tongue We want to drop it to the base of the jaw So that we get resonance or ping, bright ping in Really open. Open, look in Now you feel that pulling sensation, it's okay now we're going to start to wake up the chest can start to build resonance in the chest voice, before we start building the passaggio, before we it is the foundation of the house that you're voice is the very concrete and foundation that we If this is built incorrectly, you will not be room editions on that house with consistency. So try this song and sometimes I can sing the note consistency and that's what I mean when i say all these people offering all this YouTube advice. Did you remember the support, Constantly remind yourself, open throat. Here we go. You can start to wake up the voice you Now the higher up we go, the more strength we need called resistance. Resistance meaning resistance an analogy for people. Have you guys ever seen feet and their, it's kind of an elastic thing with handle grips and people go (sounds) and they do this, this isometric kind of strength right. So the higher up you go, the more strength buttress, hold up that note. Otherwise it's going you're, it's going to collapse, you're going to start blaming the throat. Don't blame remind yourself I feel like Mr. Rogers. Boys and you remember to take your breath so let's The higher up we go the more strength we're going to need. Open that throat like the doctor wants to see Now I'm gonna stop on this F sharp 4 most baritones that's about the highest note I can easily sing an octave above because I've trained my voice to a place where strength, a relaxation response and correct This is like the holy grail of singing, if you I can't believe how fast my voice is growing, how you will save yourself from the pitfalls of not in front of you that you hit sometimes and you don't Okay now what we're going to do is and we're going to say gosh Ken that's cool and it's a lot easier and I feel freedom in my just remind yourself or I'll try to remind you to the tongue exercise and this one exercise back confidence that you're looking for, to know to get this with consistency, you absolutely Remember the breath. Remember to relax the stomach between the breaths. Strength in the abdomen resistance at the top. Lick the lips if they don't burble. Remember the breath. The tongue exercise like you're singing the word love. Add a little a chest voice and get past the Strength in the abdomen. Cool the ah vowel. It's the la ah. Doctor wants to see your tonsils. Go over your checklist Breathing, breath support, relaxation response. It's the la ah. Resistance, strength at the top. Okay cool now what I want you to do is I want you wait for three minutes. I want you to let your in a very short period of time for and we want to build up stamina safely and redo these last exercises I just did back to back or to here, a note or two because you're going wake up and you're able to get another then you can use that and go up a couple grow and learn how to sing for guys. Please like Don't forget I do have an amazing singing all the way to the most advanced professionals at out my free singing forums over there because a lot of people who just want to learn how peace out.