Some companies are specifically known for And cars that are made by these companies Carrying a top tier brand name single-handedly design, high-tech features and performance tag too. In this video you're gonna learn about 10 them hardest to afford. But take into account that these cars are Plus, auction prices are ignored. Number 10 spot goes to Bugatti Chiron Super In 2019, Bugatti shocked the automotive world with a modified version of the Chiron. This high performance variant reached a top The French company limited the number of the Each one incorporates a tuned version of the 1600 hp. Despite these specs, all examples delivered But for buyers determined to get close to same track the record was set. I think the buyers deserve it because they It can also accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h because it is literally the fastest car to Coming in at the 9th spot is Lamborghini Veneno. It was introduced at the 2013 Geneva Motor anniversary. The Italian company built 14 examples of the Each one costs around $4.5 million. The car was available in both convertible The Veneno is fast, and that should come as It has a more-powerful version of the Aventador's It produces 740 horsepower and that allows 2.9 seconds. It also maxes out at 355 km/h. Veneno means venom or poison in Spanish so this deadly. To date, it's the most expensive Lamborghini Number 8. Meet the Pagani Imola; a limited-run, track-focused It relies on a twin-turbo V12 engine developed The Imola is a car that is entirely dedicated It is the second fastest Pagani. It hits a top speed of 370 km/h. The V12 pumps 830 hp, pushing the car to 100 It is arguably the most impressive vehicle Unfortunately, only 5 Imolas were produced. Considering all of them are spoken for, it's alone experience, the model's capabilities. Each one is priced at a staggering $5.4 million. The number 7th spot on this list goes to another Made its debut in 2020, the Bugatti Divo stands 21st century. It sold out on its first day of availability. It is a mid-engine sports car developed with It followed after the immense success of Chiron, What Divo retains from its sibling is its While the Chiron was developed for high-speed to the pavement on a twisty road, and it benefits According to Bugatti, this car is the most With 1500 horsepower, it accelerates from It also reaches a top speed of 380 km/h. 40 million. Moving into number 6, we have Mercedes Maybach The car was commissioned by a tire company Needless to say, the tires of Exelero are The car is known for its peculiar design. Only one model of the car has ever been produced. Maybach Exelero combines the elegance and Mercedes built the Exelero on the bones of producing 690 horsepower. With that massive amount of power output, and can accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h in just It is listed at $8 million and considering its sticker price becomes even more impressive. Bugatti holds the 5th spot as well. The limited-edition, Bugatti Centodieci is kid's bedroom wall during the 1990s. Limited to just 10 units, the car is made Even though it pays homage to EB110, the Centodieci engine, tuned to produce 1600 hp. The most powerful Bugatti to roll out of the above the Chiron in terms of price too. Whether you love or hate its looks, you have presence. It also commands a high price. Carrying a price just shy of $9 million, the ever made. It can accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h in 2.4 limited to 378 km/h. Fourth place on our list is what can only magic. A powerhouse of automotive design and engineering, car made in the United Kingdom. The company started designing it in 2013 but So, the project took four years from start million. It was built on demand by a private customer, it looks exactly like a yacht from the back. We are at the top 3 and the 3rd most expensive Its frame is entirely formed of carbon fiber, and it stands only a meter tall. When it comes to its performance specs, we time period of 3.1 seconds from 0 to 100 km/h. Only three units were made in 2018 and each One of them was given to the founder of Pagani Number 2. It is the most expensive Bugatti ever. The one-of-a-kind La Voiture Noire unveiled second most expensive car. It is a modern interpretation of Jean Bugatti's during World War II. While the identity of its owner remains a Like Bugatti's other bespoke models, it uses It channels a monstrous 1500 horsepower to powerful cars from the brand. It also delivers quite a performance, accelerating out at 420 km/h. Moreover, it costs $19 million. Before we unmask our top pick, we're gonna These cars couldn't make it to the list Koenigsegg CCXR Trevita. Rumor has it that each trevita was sold for Ferrari sp12 EC. The SP12, which reportedly cost Eric Clapton secretive one-off programme, which usually Bugatti Bolide. Bugatti said the Bolide Concept would be built Each one will cost at least $4.7 million. Bugatti Chiron Vision Gran Turismo. Bugatti originally sold the Vision GT concept McLaren x-1. This car has arguably the most epic design It'll cost about $5 million to pick one up. Lamborghini sc20. It is the successor of the sc18 and the second design center in Italy. The cost of it is unclear, but people speculate Lamborghini sc18 Alston. The company declined to give any information $7 m. At the number 1 we have Rolls-Royce Boat Tail. It is a four-seater luxury car with a length Boat Tail is the British company's latest just three examples of this car are produced. With this model, Rolls-Royce has taken revenge in 2017. A successor to the stunning Sweptail from to have its own extended umbrella and a cocktail The owner can simply press a button and the up and opens up an umbrella. Unlike the one-off Sweptail, all three Boat owners. Although Rolls-Royce doesn't officially this, rumor has it that the Boat Tail cost Alright, that's it for this video. I hope you enjoyed it. If you did, don't forget to like this video