HEY DID YOU KNOW THAT BIONICLE SAVED LEGO FINANCIALLY AT THE TIME? Yeah, you did know that. Eight million other videos have talked about and how important it was andppppttbtbtptbtbptttt CARE about cultural context or history or I'm interested in ONE question: Were the If we strip away nostalgia goggles, are these to play with? And what was it that made these toys SO huge Hi I'm Jett Kuso! I like to nostalgically analyze toylines new very first year of Lego's hit twice-cancelled Part 1: THE TOA FIRST THING'S FIRST. THE TOA. Our very first commercial features a mysterious explodes a bunch of parts that assemble themselves SPORTS! Just like the commercial, the Toa Mata came gimmick. Incredibly modern looking, and a highly distinct Every child's first experience was literally the canister and building the guy and sending Uh... With no enemy toys to fight, the main thing angle from the ads. Skiing on the counters! Climbing on your dog!Swinging on the curtains! Swimming in the snake-infested creek behind TINY JETT, GET AWAY FROM THERE!! The building process is exceedingly simple. A few axles and ball joints snapped together In terms of 'action features', each Toa inside it's torso; a mechanic that allowed Tahu, Lewa and Kopaka. They all wield single hand melee weapons, arms. You can generate a SHOCKING amount of force Very mechanically satisfying, it's got a Meanwhile Onua and Gali have two shorter weapons, back and forth to mimic climbing or swimming. Then there's uh...the dirt one. The dirt one looks like a dork because his cause turning his butt gear makes him kick Woo, sports! If I'm being honest, the original toa are The designers got a lot of variety in silhouettes to create different builds, but still they're by any normal action figure standards. On the upside, the quality of lego plastic They're solid, the joints are tight, they on the mechanics. It's strong enough that they can knock each the masks are the source of a Toa's magic Different masks, different powers The masks are held in by a looser sort of it's on purpose because the masks are SUPPOSED Which is good for when Lewa gets miND CONTROLLED COME ON MAN. There. If you've noticed the cool dynamic glowing heads were constructed with these clear pieces them into place. It's a commonplace feature for transformers But if i'm being honest, I don't know to Bionicle's initial success because at impeccable. They did marketing events at toysruses, gave that would play full versions of the extreme The focus on world building and mythos pulled with it's dark atmosphere. I enjoyed my first bionicle, which was a Toa commercials and the mystique did something More on that later. Despite all of this, there were probably a bionicle fans even BEFORE they spent a cent Part 3: The Mctoran What you're about to hear is the most brilliant SO obvious. These little guys are the Matoran! In the Bionicle universe, these guys are basically Normal guys that do their jobs and dance around; protect! The Matoran toys are cute as heck. Simple to build, compatible with any other And the best part, they were FREE! HAPPY MEALS! These toys ONLY came inside HAPPY. FRICKIN. MEALS. At MCDONALDS. They might look underwhelming for a lego set, PSSHHH GEDATTA HERE. These things are CHOICE happy meal toys. Lego quality plastic, a fun action feature, Lego definitely lost a lotta money on em, more and Toys R Us was the place to get the These toys got me and my brother hooked, and Part 3: THE RAHI The third element of Bionicle's Year 1 launch Animals infected by a dark presence on the threat the Toa had to face. They aren't really bad guys, but with the They could definitely punch masks off though! These BIG BOY sets typically had much higher stop us! *Conner hands up a note* Oh uh. I'm reading here that it actually DID stop It completely stopped us and we basically here because we were babies and not wealthy. I wasn't a builder kid, so to me these always Each was designed to be held kind of like unique attacks. A few years back I found the instructions of parts at home and man... I like it. Much like the toa, the wing-flap mechanics And when facing a toa they-- *Discombobulate They easily smack a toa mask off if you get pattern! Every Rahi had masks on their front, forming You and a friend, or you and you, could fight em against each other like rock em sock em If a Toa wins, they can remove the Infected Rahi wins they can infect the TOA and turn Then you can fight your evil toa against your The effort to put such hefty and effective makes up for the limitations of the toys as Obviously they're not terribly posable, HWAH!! WIND FLY! Anyway, that's every main bionicle product *Conner hands Joshua a note* Oh uh... Right. Part 4: THE TURAGA *Cough*BOOMERS*cough* The Turaga are nothing. The cheapest combination of the fewest parts above the McToran. They're just some ooooold old men, but at Masks were a HUGE part of this toyline. Toa had em, Rahi had em, everything had a They sold booster boxes of them that we called Sometimes the mask boxlets would have rare rare masks. Or a store would hold a promotion for a rare And sometimes when your local Toys R Us is find a rare bionicle giveaway mask on the you can just keep it... This is a bionicle mask... Yeah? We have one of these. It's incredibly rare, and we found it on Yeah if you find stuff just... *Gestures* I'm not gonna tell. This got off track. Point is the masks were a neat collectible, most iconic imagery. With mask boxes being SUCH a cheap product, at LITERALLY every price point... No matter how much allowance you had, if you and that felt GOOD. Part 5: THE DEEP LORE Let's get this out of the way: Bionicles In-universe they're beings of organic tissue solidified protodermis. What's protodermis? I don't know, go read the wiki. Anyway, that's where the name Bionicle comes Bionicles are both Biologic and Mechanical. Smash togther bio and mechanical and you get...! Nothing! I lied! The name actually means 'biological chronicle' happens in the story, right? Haha. Haaa. Okay it's time, I can't avoid it... What's going on here? Who are these robots? Why are there robots in a tropical island And why do they look like this, WHAT ON AQUA-MAGNA "Hey Vakama's a liar, man!" "He's a liar!" "He's making it up, it's not true!" I said nothing very biological happens in You see.... EVERY. SINGLE. CHARACTER in bionicle is a micro-organism Literally, most of the story takes place inside sleeping GOD ROBOT. You see in year one, the island of Mata Nui Nui floating in an ocean on an alien world. And then in the prequel they're inside his BASICALLY THE TOA ARE WHITE BLOODCELLS, THE ARE A FEVER AND IT WAS OSMOSIS JONES THE WHOLE THE MATORAN IS THE POWERHOUSE OF THE CELL. So, point is Bionicle has a lot of lore. The bionicle universe is absolutely massive It seemed simple when we were kids, just some And yet....a then-unknown mythology crept they made. A mysterious red star roaming the sky, ancient army of robots destined to destroy everything, on an island in canisters... Every corner of year 1 of bionicle oozes with And every corner you looked into you'd find another unanswered. And answers WERE THERE, they existed. Every bit of the truth of the story was foreshadowed learn about the giant robot thing until like And yet on this original map of the island, underneath the surface. Even on the very surface, Bionicle drips with Look at this canister package: That looks Why is there a robot in a jungle? Why's it swinging around like Tarzan? Who made these robots? It's not obvious, and when the answers to thing happens in the mind of a child....... Imagination. Part 6: AREN'T WE FORGETTING SOMETHING? So this whole time, I've been talking about And for a lot of kids that's all they were; as they are, and even in that respect the solid. And Bionicle's world building inspired more at the time. Distinct characters and distinct roles in right around the corner. That's VERY fun to immerse yourself in. But aren't we forgetting something.......? LEGOS. OH MY GOD RIGHT, THEY WERE LEGOS THE WHOLE CAN MAKE ANYTHING I WANT OHHH MYYY GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOD First you fill kids with imagination and wonder their creativity is ONLY limited by HOW MUCH But lego didn't even rely on the kids to can make other things out of these toys. A lot of the characters had combined forms them together to form bigger badder heroes They don't really look good, but the point well rebuild them into whatever you want. You KNOW we were making Bionicle OCs 24/7 Custom Toa and Matoran, new Rahi to populate But that was more my brother's jam than He was a lego kid, I was a transformers kid, to understand the mystery of it. Bionicle was a brand you could fully immerse From watching to reading to building to playing than most toylines ever even AIM for. So were the Bionicle toys good? Yeah. Yeah they were good. And if you didn't find them complex enough, that more suited your fancy. You see, when you inspire enough imagination that Bionicles had, the simplest toys can