On the bitterly cold night of November 8, 1983, three corpses were wheeled into the at the University of Bergen in Norway. the bodies were already in a terrible state, but The bodies - referred to in the autopsy report a fraction of a second, but they bore the marks the state of rigor mortis was unusually strong had accumulated in the lower parts of severe hemorrhaging in the major blood Their lungs were dripping with edematous damage as a result of gas buildups in their their stomachs had undergone the kind of damage Their hearts were all in ruins - With destroyed that had boiled under pressure, described by "like sizzling butter on a frying pan." This Their brains and spinal cords weren't in any brain matter for each body was unusually gasses and fats that had no business at all areas of the brain and spine. Some of their In short, they were deader than dead. But then there was number 4. Where the first three bodies, in accordance in on metal gurneys, number 4 was brought bags. When those bags were laid out on the as you might recognize it - but an incomplete Even for these seasoned doctors, each who had there was something deeply unsettling about the Perhaps most of all, it was number 4's against the table like a Halloween mask, staring locked into a final grimace of confusion - It was a parade of horrors. What had happened here? Who were these men, and their deaths? A wild animal? The world's The answer is almost more shocking than of a mistake. A mistake that resulted in the most brutal deaths in history. This is From 1974 to 2019, the Byford Dolphin offshore Sea by Dolphin Drillings Holding Limited, different energy companies in the Norwegian, It bore a 102-man crew, and was designed as rigs - and like most offshore oil rigs, it During its years of operation, the deadly occurrences. In 1976, only two years the rig ran aground in the and six people died when falling from Decades later, in 2002, during an industrial the rig was struck on the head with raised questions once again about the lax leading to the voiding of its contract with leading to the campaign losing But none of these incidents are more infamous than the Diving Bell incident of 1983, and possibly corrupt aftermath - that The use of diving bells in order to transport high-pressure environments and back makes the of a rig. The bell is designed to descend from which allows the occupants time to For each atmosphere - which is the standard occupants experience an additional amount of sea level during baseline climate conditions. At the pressure reaches the level of 9 atmospheres divers on the Byford dolphin were working The four divers whose grisly remains we described were saturation divers. First introduced by this is one of the most grueling jobs in the most people's idea of Hell, but these rewarded handsomely for their risky work. much as $30,000 to $45,000 per month - if up to 1000 feet beneath the waves. So, how does incorrect procedure end up causing four As we alluded to earlier, when divers reach atmospheres beneath the surface, nitrogen and soft tissues. Without the proper decompression sickness and barotrauma - compared to normal scuba diving, equipment point of saturation with the inert gases in their to dive for extended periods before coming back Saturation divers are confined in a highly need to stay inside this diving bell for one day you're already feeling claustrophobic at hearing a job that takes extreme patience, as the divers a point of saturation. They're made to breathe a which has the bizarre side effect of giving voices for weeks - referred to by some When the process is complete, they're ready for their employers wish - in this case, operate That is, of course, if everything goes of potential horrible consequences for Decompression sickness, high-pressure nervous bone necrosis, and if you're truly unlucky, While descending to the depths as a saturation just as deadly - especially when your equipment typically spend the last week of your mission in high-pressure environment is artificially created Whether this goes well, all comes down to the "umbilical cord" between the rig and the tubes that regulate communication and also the and if things go wrong with the umbilical, things for Tenders to know what they're doing, and During the Byford Dolphin Incident, the by the name of William Crammond, Martin Saunders. Their job was to disconnect it through a trunk to join two other divers in a divers were Edwin Arthur Coward, Roy P. Lucas, In Chamber One at 4 AM, Coward and Lucas nine atmospheres. Bergersen and Hellevik were separated from the two chambers - and a clamp that was being operated by the Dive a standard procedure for operations like The diving bell door, which would have the hyperbaric chambers, would have first been slightly increased in the diving bell in bell was sealed tightly. The door to the first would then be closed and sealed, cutting it off slowly depressurized until it reached one the diving bell to the trunk could be released, It was just after step 2 that disaster struck. The general consensus was that Crammond the diving bell to the trunk before Hellevik had report commissioned by the Norwegian government than human error from Crammond. But in any The second the clamp was opened at the same time in. The 9 atmospheres of pressure inside the atmosphere outside. The diving bell fired off and severely injuring Saunders. Meanwhile, on at the start of this video were being set For Coward, Lucas, and Bergersen - also known in their blood enlarged into huge gas bubbles, and accounting for the sizzling fat deposits autopsies. But Hellevik - who you'll know better next to the partially open chamber door. him through the barely open door in just 0.12 nothing left of him to find but pieces, some The international community was so horrified by stricter safety regulations were subsequently enhanced risk assessment procedures and the evacuation vessels specifically designed to help chamber without further endangering them. the North Sea Divers Alliance, an advocacy on behalf of saturation divers operating However, the aftermath of the incident was from the Norwegian government. In fact, there bodies were even cold. A report commissioned by Crammond for allegedly opening the clamp at lives of all the others in the chambers. However, for the system, as someone who was no longer The people who lost their family members in the and it seemed as though the government the tragedy - enabling the fatal accident by on the Byford Dolphin and not tightening the lax which was already almost a decade old before pressure gauges, an interlocking mechanism, gone a long way towards preventing the explosive Crew members of the Byford Dolphin the Norwegian Oil and Petro-Chemical Union, claimed that the report pointing the finger at responsibility and paying the compensation It wasn't until 26 years after the incident the equipment was at fault, not Crammond, justice and compensation for their lost loved daughter of Roy Lucas, said: &quot;I would go so far my father because they knew that they were After all this, we probably don't need to tell hazardous to human health, but let's take a deeper events work. There are three different types decompression, rapid decompression, and slow or is crucial for preventing other nightmarish Explosive decompression, such as the kind seen underwater and in aircraft. Put simply, explosive than the lungs are able to decompress, a rapid seconds. The release of force is comparable likely fatal damage to the lungs and other three - as well as the risk of any free-floating Though no other recorded instance of the body to be ripped apart like that of Diver 4. Then there's rapid decompression. While still it's not nearly as severe as explosive 0.1 to 0.5 seconds, causing the lungs to and still potentially causing lung damage. And then there's slow or gradual decompression its two counterparts, can still have circumstances. More commonly experienced a gradual decompression can result in hypoxia - a lack of oxygen - and This had a tragic effect in 2005 during a passenger plane flying from Cyprus to the rendering the people on the plane unconscious. Air cruised on autopilot, before all attempts into a mountain in Greece. All 121 people on were killed, making it the deadliest While the results are thankfully changes in pressure have taken many lives over more common result of decompression: The Bends, more violent and disgusting death of Truls the general consensus is that Now check out "Even More Evil Punishments Designed To Be Worse Than Death." Or