In today's video, we're followed by Flaggle, followed by Globle, followed by TimeGuessr, followed by Globle: Capitals, followed by Countryle, followed by WhereTaken, followed by Capitale, followed by Wherdle, followed by Blind Secret Country X. This'll be the first time I've played some of these geography games, Starting with Worldle, and I've hidden the country outline to make things a little bit harder. So let's go with Mali to begin with. A nice big African country. It's 12,000 kilometres away, so it's over towards like So maybe like Japan. Let's try Japan. Guess. So way, way closer, 95%, and then it's 900 kilometres away. So would that bring us to China? Maybe. I'm gonna try it. Guess. Oh, we're actually further 2,000 kilometres. So maybe like North Korea or South Korea. Let us try North Korea. Guess. Oh, here we go. Ah, 97%. So presumably that means it's South Korea. It's directly below it. But I'm a bit confused why Shouldn't that be zero kilometres, seeing as they border each other? But either way we'll try it, 'cause I'm assuming that is the right one. Guess. Yeah, there we go, and there's the actual All right, we'll do each Guess the neighbours. Let's do it. Can you guess the four countries Let's show the map for this one. All right, so number 4 is China. There you go. Number 3, that looks like Taiwan to me. Let's whack that in there. Thank you. So it's not actually a land border, is it? They're just the four closest countries. Number 2, that is obviously Japan. A pretty iconic country shape. And then finally, I mean, that's got to be I am assuming so, anyway. And guess, yoo be doo! Guess the capital. Oh, okay. Capital of South Korea, I know that. That's just Seoul. I don't know how to There it is. Guess. And then we've got guess the flag, which is nice and easy. And then the final round Ooh, South Korea. It could be 30 million+, I don't know which one to go with. I'm gonna go with D. Yes, 51 million. And then we've got a borders bonus. What is the currency used? Real is in Brazil. Krona is Europe somewhere, I think. I think it's Won, but I'm not 100% It is. There we go. Okay, let's move on to Flaggle, which I didn't play the So basically you say any country, let's go with, what should I go with? I'll go with Denmark. Is that a good start? Guess. And then what it does is it and the bits of the mystery flag that line up with Denmark's flag. So this is, what? I think Denmark was a So what this means is that have white in them, which lines up with the white in Denmark. So what's gonna be white, just on a very thin strip I don't know. Let's try United Kingdom, just because that's got like and let's see if that's any more helpful. Oh, it's not gonna be Scotland, is it? Ooh, Scotland is actually Ooh, I think that was, no. This is really weird. So it's something with a cross in it. So is it Jamaica? But Jamaica doesn't have any white in it. Either way, we're gonna guess it just so I can see what's going on. What on earth is this flag? Maybe I don't understand the game. I'm really confused by this. Whatever the flag is has So we need something with a yellow circle. So I'm thinking it's actually Brazil. So let me guess. Here we go. Go on. Ah, it's not. What is going on? So based on these two previous answers, it's something that's got a yellow circle in the middle, maybe, but then also the yellow I'm visualising this wrong, aren't I? So I need something that around this centre area. What has a yellow triangle? I don't know. I'm gonna try Czechia, just I'm hoping that'll be helpful. No, that's not helpful at all. Ooh, Bosnia and Herzegovina. That could be not a bad guess. Let's try that. That is a, ah, see look, and then it's got white along the top. So what's yellow in the middle? Oh, is it Bahamas? I'm gonna try it. That could be right. Oh, oh no, it's still not right, but it's actually giving Something that looks quite I know it isn't Saint Lucia, but I'm trying it just (Jack laughs) Okay, I think I know what it is. Is it Palau? I'm gonna try Palau. Yes, the answer is Palau. What's the crosses for? I understand The Bahamas, but there's no crosses anywhere. So I think that's a but maybe I'm just being stupid. Please let me know in the comments. Okay. Hopefully we can redeem a bit more of a classic. I'm gonna go Mali once again, because someone in the said they always go with Right, it's not Mali, and So that could take us to So let's go Pakistan. Yeah, Pakistan. And hopefully we've gone the right way. We have. Closest border's now 500 kilometres, so I'm not gonna go India, but I am gonna go above India, Go for it. Oh no, but the closest So is it Nepal? It must be Nepal. Yes it is. See that's how it's meant to go. Let's play TimeGuessr, and we're gonna do the so we know we're at the White House, and that's bloody Pablo Escobar. Maybe that isn't the White I just assumed on first glance. Maybe that's like Pablo's mansion. Yeah, surely Pablo Escobar's not gonna be stood right unless he's being like, &quot;Look at me. I'm literally untouchable.&quot; I dunno. I mean, it looks quite a but he just looks very And surely there'd be more than just a basic little iron fence. What year should we say? I don't know, like seventies? I'm not 100% sure when I'll go with '73. And do we go with Columbia or do we go with the White House? You see any American flags or anything? Oh, I don't know. Yeah, I'm gonna go White House. Oh, there's actually a (Jack laughs) That's all I can get though, isn't it? He'd have to be literally like here. He'd have to be really, Do you know what? Let's just go for it. Make the guess. Yes, it is the White House. &quot;Pablo Escobar posing in during his height of power.&quot; Wow, that is kind of So I got the wrong but I was only 140 metres And it was eight years off. But you know what? That's not too bad. As if he did that just to be Dodgy guy. Really dodgy. Not good. Not good. Right, we'll move on to Countryle, where we once again have but we're given a load of stats about it, which really does help. So let's try Mali once again. Keep the theme going. Shout out to Scepter01, by the way, who was the person that to begin with. All right, so Countryle has but it is a country in Africa. However, it is in the Southern Hemisphere, because Northern's red, and it is a bit colder That makes sense. It has a population and it's southeast. Okay, well, it's somewhere around here. Population of 20 million. Do you wanna try Kenya? Yeah, we'll try Kenya, let's go for it. Enter. Right, we've gone too high now with the population 55 million, but we are in the right So it's gonna be somewhere but it is in the south. Shall I just go with Just trying to think somewhere that's got like a high enough population. No, I'm wrong. South Africa's population's All right, northeast of Maybe Mozambique. Do we wanna go Mozambique? Let's try it. Oh, we got it. There's all of the stats 32 million. A lot of people live in Africa. Okay, this is WhereTaken, another game that I I have genuinely no idea on this one. I don't think I'm gonna but I am guessing that it's maybe like Italy, So let's try. Shall we try Italy? Let's go with Italy. Guess. Ooh, 98%. So what does that mean? 'Cause it says country or region. So does this mean it's in Italy, and I just need to be more specific, or does it mean it's 398 I'm a guessing so. If I'm heading northeast, I guess Switzerland but I'm gonna be honest, I think I wanna rule Yeah, it's not quite Switzerland, but it is to the east of Switzerland, so I guess that means, I don't know. We'll try Czechia. Guess Czechia. 98%, down from Czechia, Austria? I guess Austria would make sense. Let's guess that one. 99%. How have we not got the country yet? I don't know at all. I'm gonna try Slovenia. Ooh, we got there. (Jack laughs) So there are bonus rounds. Let's have a go. Which landmark is in Slovenia? Well I'm assuming not A, B, so it's gonna be between C and D. Based on that previous image, Ah, what a nice guess. &quot;What is the above landmark Now this, I'm just not gonna know, but you never know, we might be able to guess So it is not a mosque, it's not gonna be George Washington House, Bled Castle, could be. I'm thinking Herat Citadel. Yeah, let's try that one. Ah, I was wrong. You know what? I'm gonna go back to Bled Castle. It was. I should have just gone with it. &quot;What is the capital city of Slovenia?&quot; Okay, I get Slovenia so there's Ljubljana and I think Slovenia is Ljubljana, so let's give it a go. Oh, no. Oh, I was right. It teased me, but we got there. &quot;Which city in Slovenia Do we have any clues? I'm just gonna do a random guess. I'm gonna go with Koper. I need to buy a lottery Okay, we're back to Globle, but we are playing Globle: I've not done this before, so I'm sure this will Let's try London to begin with. Okay, 4,000 kilometres from London. This is gonna be way too hard, isn't it? 4,000 kilometres, so maybe Ankara in Turkey? Let's try it. Go for it. Oh, no, further away. Interesting. So we could maybe be going into Africa, and I don't think I know Or could 4,000 kilometres It's my only hope, really, London's still my closest, Wait, well what does that mean then? Should I try capital of Canada, Which is in the total wrong area. Oh no it isn't. I guess that makes a bit of sense. I'm just trying Madrid to get an idea. I'm getting very confused (Jack laughs) Madrid is closest, 3,000 kilometres away. So that means, yeah, it's in Africa. I know the capital of I'm gonna try it. Oh, it corrects it if I Well that's nice, but Madrid's actually Is it? Have we tried Rome yet? Let's try Rome. Madrid's still closest. What? Well, I'm just gonna that I do know, which is Tunis. No, I'm not gonna get this, so I'll just have to Lisbon's now officially our closest. So that means it is gonna So is it like the capital Right, I'm cheating, just because I know I'm not gonna get it. So Praia is the capital of Cape Verde. Let's try it. Yeah, it was Praia. Thank God I cheated. Oh my God. Okay, now we're moving on to Wherdle, another game I've not played before. &quot;You'll be shown five photos After each guess you can and which direction you should be heading. If you get it within But once again, I might but let's hope for the best. Ooh, guess which city this is in? Oh my God, yeah, this might be So it looks Asian, definitely. Maybe Indian? I can name some places in India. So I guess that's what So I'm gonna go with New Delhi, It's not New Delhi. There's another image. So we might have some flag Is this Egypt in front? So maybe I'll try Cairo. Let's submit that one. I'm not correct. It definitely looks more based on this image, doesn't it? Oh, I've not been paying attention to these numbers down here. That could definitely help. So down from New Delhi, I mean Sri Lanka's I think, isn't it? So let's try that one. You never know. No, but it's 600 up from Is this the area where they like put and they send them down the river? The Ganges, is that what it's called? I'm just gonna type India Let's go with Goa. Submit. I'm wrong. Well I'll try Chennai, then. I actually got it. But I couldn't have said Chennai. It's just 'cause I got That was tough, that one. All right. And finally we're doing I did the first nine a So we only have 1:30, and we'll go with India So not too close to India. Let's try Mali. Bit warmer with Mali, but not much. Let's do USA. Oh God, they're still yellow. So I need to get like the red colours. None of them are far, which is quite interesting. So maybe we'll go Europe. Let's go UK. Hmm. Okay, let's do Iceland then. No. Italy. Let's try Italy. Italy is our warmest thus far. So from Italy, let's go right. Let's go with Croatia. Let's try that. It's still quite warm. No matter how warm it gets, I'm gonna test that by going to Turkey. Oh, I think that's a slightly darker shade with Italy and Croatia. Let's try Portugal. No, I need to be sticking in it. So I'm gonna go Vatican. Still not there. I've got 26 seconds. Oh my God, that went quick. Malta. Slovakia. Monaco. Andorra. Spain. Austria. (Jack laughs) I'm about to run out of time. Go on, then, give me the real answer. Oh my God. I think that's Kosovo. Right. Fair enough. I got thrown off with I got a little bit unlucky there, but also, my bad, I screwed that up. Well, a bit of a disappointing but hopefully you enjoyed it nonetheless. Thank you very much for watching. If there's any geography-based games that I have not yet played, please let me know in the and we can just make this Thanks a lot. I'll see you later.