- When you look back at any era, you can distinctly see the chrome accents of the fifties to the boxy angles of the eighties, each decade has its unique style. But every so often, They pull inspiration from the past. We got a wave of this in the S197 Mustang, the PT the HHR, and many more drew '50s, and '60s. For better or for worse, And the term used to describe Now it seems to be happening again. Today's cars that aren't of the same thing are cues from the past. And if 2004 was looking back 2024 seems to be looking back But is recycling the past really to buy new cars? We're gonna take the of retrofuturism, this and why it may not be as rad as it feels. Let's start with where this began, and that was actually out for this little guy. The original Volkswagen Beetle the automotive industry for decades. Even though it technically started Nazi Germany, by the 1960s it and being just too By 1965, VW was making It had not only become it transcended being that was a constant in people's lives. And the original Beetle Mexico until 2003. So when VW launched this the Beetle had been in its 60 year history, Of course, plenty of car designs the past already, but no one had ever future-ified as the Beetle. Every other car gradually but the old Beetle and the completely different eras, even though they were same time. Also, unlike other cars, these two shared absolutely no parts and really no mechanical concepts that they were both round. Nevertheless, the public It didn't matter that the car front-engine and water-cooled. It was a cheap and accessible way to express your uniqueness, even if there were a hundred thousand more on the road just like it every year. It seems like after seeing the success of the Big Three set out to do the same, because over the next seven years, we got about a dozen retro- to the American golden age. 2001 saw the launch of The designer Bryan Nesbitt by the Chrysler Airflow of the 1940s, but it was also offered with two-tone paint, and pinstriping as though it was cherry- of American styling. Okay, greatest hits might be relative, but you get my point. Even though Chrysler says that the PT Cruiser was it actually succeeded with who were nostalgic for the Not long after that, Ford Over the years, the Thunderbird of a car before it was But in 2002, we got a sleek and flashy throwback to with chrome accents and porthole windows. And this trend of replicating the style of an American heyday continued on with varying degrees of success. The Mustang S197 launched but the Chevy SSR and HHR Not every design element well, and it could even of these designs were parts of an era. And it wasn't just the US jumping on this throwback bandwagon. Toyota took a swing in of the FJ Cruiser, a by the mighty 40 Series Land Cruiser, one of the best vehicles to But the other half of the one-two punch that cemented this transition from then to now was the BMW-designed Mini Cooper. Like the Volkswagen Beetle, the Mini Cooper had reached heights of over a million units per in 1961 with the Morris through many changes but the identity of the vehicle light, British. In 2001, the Mini Cooper after having bought the Even though this was technically it not only played off the but the heritage as well. Mini Coopers were available Union Jack taillights, and mirrors. The scrappy little British racer that had won the Monte even though it was over a original and cost as much as a BMW when it came time for repairs. But eventually, this wave of as automotive technology began With hybrids on the rise and EVs on the horizon, the vision of an electric future at least not at first. Now, however, in 2024, of several EVs start to skew towards this appeal to nostalgia. And it's not nostalgia and '60s anymore. It's nostalgia for the 1980s. In 2021, Hyundai released the Ioniq 5. Hyundai says the boxy, brutal lines of the Ioniq 5 were inspired by South Korea's first the Hyundai Pony, which But many people say Lancia Delta vibes. If you're gonna copy It's not a revival of the badge or a direct successor like But the hint of a style that was beginning to creep in. Hyundai doubled look in 2022 with the launch of their slightly more than Now, I know everyone wants to say that the Tesla Cybertruck but come on, the Vision 74 with the DMC-12. It even has those rectangular to the classic sealed beam style. But one car is happenstance, It's not like every EV has Right? Okay, there was that one EV company, Alpha, who announced the truck to Marty McFly, but it's and who knows if it'll ever be built. That's when the announcement of Rivian's new vehicles The Rivian R2 and Rivian R3 SUV and compact SUV offerings now that the R1T and R1S have been released. Right away, the styling was noticeably boxy, And the R3 in particular version of an '80s But this time, Rivian designers goals and said out loud by the Lancia Delta. Given that EVs need to be to keep efficiency up, this was Even more recently, Hyundai has applied some styling to their Santa this trend is continuing. Renault and Alpine announced the A290, an EV that takes direct inspiration the Renault 5 Turbo. And looks like the headlights could run pong. So the big question is, of '80s-inspired cars in of '60s-inspired cars It's very possible. I mean, selling new cars that were on the road when you to speak to a consumer. It's worth pointing out though, to nostalgia like this is not aimed at us, the enthusiasts. Sure, we can and references to cars that we loved, but we also care about I mean, we care more about You know, the kind of person of car they drive, they'll This new era of retro-futurism for enthusiasts to swallow, because while the styling the underlying concept of what we liked about those In fact, we'd be much more nostalgic for technology rather than looks. And there's evidence to and fewer new cars are being offered with a manual transmission, the number of manuals being sold In 2021, JD Power reported that of total new cars sold in the US. By 2023, that number had climbed to 1.7%. Still a very, very small But when you think about the fact that interest in manuals to see how drastic the shift has been. And it's not just models with a history of being manual sports cars Newer offerings like the Hyundai Elantra N and even the Toyota Tacoma with a manual in the US. But there is a little danger to retro-futurism taking such a prominent position in an era. And that is, what happens for retro-futurism itself? If the trend of this 40 by 2040 OEMs will be that reference the two thousands. How many of those will be cars that originally referenced the sixties? If we keep going with this then we're not creating a unique present. And slowly, the retro-futurism But there's another reason on, and it has more to do with the decades that are being emulated now. The mid-2000s retro- and aesthetics from the 1960s and older. And that is a very special especially in the US. The 1960s was a peak when before the interference of This is one of the reasons that American cars in particular the 1970s. Almost every model made less from the previous decade. There is no nostalgia for the 1970s, or at least it's not The 1980s was a time of a and automotive technology after the introduction of fuel injection, variable valve timing and But still, for many people to be buying new cars, the '60s will always be the golden age. Take a look at the new Ford Bronco. After 25 years of being off the market, Ford launched the sixth- Unlike its bigger, bulkier the new Ford Bronco was designed to emulate the original Bronco from 1965. They shortened the wheel to a hundred inches, making it only eight inches Ford even digitally scanned as a reference when But these waves of just on nostalgia. I'm sure plenty of people who bought Chevy HHR had for mid-40s suburbans. Sometimes a design team that clicks. The '80s with the current markets. And in a weird way, it seems fitting for the tech-centric EVs. The trend has expanded a little bit to gasoline vehicles too. The Tacoma is boxier than ever, just like the original Toyota pickup. But I don't think this trend as it was in the 2000s. Lemme know what you think, though. If '80s cars are gonna be to see a modern version of? And if American cars draw on will we see a similar wave of There's a lot to think about here. We'll see what the next decade holds, and I'll see you in two Thanks for watching. We got a wave of this in the S197 Mustang, the PT Cruiser, the Prowler, the S-S-S-R-H. H-R-S-H-S-H, okay, the Prowler. The Ss, my God. S-S-R-S-S-R.