I think I was supposed which is called &quot;Blink,&quot; and it's about snap judgments And it comes out in January, (Laughter) But I was thinking about this, and I realized that although and I think would make my mother happy, it's not really about happiness. So I decided instead, who I think has done as much as perhaps anyone over the last 20 years, a man who is a great someone by the name of Howard Moskowitz, who is most famous Howard's about this high, and he's round, and he's in his 60s, and thinning gray hair, and he has a kind of wonderful and he has a parrot, and he's a great aficionado And by profession, he's a psychophysicist. Now, I should tell you that I have no idea although at some point in my life, I dated a girl for two years who was getting Which should tell you something (Laughter) As far as I know, psychophysics And Howard is very interested And he graduated and he set up a little consulting shop And one of his first clients was Pepsi. This is many years ago, And Pepsi came to Howard and they said, &quot;You know, there's this new and we would like to make Diet Pepsi. We'd like you to figure out how much aspartame we should put in order to have the perfect drink.&quot; Now that sounds like an incredibly and that's what Howard thought. Because Pepsi told him, &quot;We're working with a band Anything below eight percent anything above 12 percent We want to know: what's the sweet Now, if I gave you this problem to do, What we do is you make up at every degree of sweetness -- all the way up to 12 -- and we try this out and we plot the results on a curve, and we take the most popular Really simple. Howard does the experiment, and he plots it on a curve, and all of a sudden he realizes In fact, the data doesn't make any sense. It's a mess. It's all over the place. Now, most people in that business, are not dismayed They think, &quot;Well, you know, figuring out what people think &quot;You know, maybe we made an error &quot;You know, let's just and they simply point right in the middle. Howard is not so easily placated. Howard is a man of a certain degree And this was not good enough for him, and this question bedeviled him for years. And he would think it through Why could we not make sense And one day, he was sitting about to go trying to dream up And suddenly, like a bolt of lightning, And that is, that when they analyzed they were asking the wrong question. They were looking for the perfect Pepsi, and they should have been Trust me. This was an enormous revelation. This was one of the most brilliant Howard immediately went on the road, and he would go to conferences and he would stand up and say, &quot;You had been looking You're wrong. You should be looking And people would look at him &quot;What are you talking about? Craziness.&quot; And they would say, &quot;Move! Next!&quot; Tried to get business, he was obsessed, though, and he talked about it Howard loves the Yiddish expression &quot;To a worm in horseradish, This was his horseradish. (Laughter) He was obsessed with it! And finally, he had a breakthrough. Vlasic Pickles came to him, and they said, &quot;Doctor Moskowitz, And he said, &quot;There is no perfect pickle; And he came back to them and he said, &quot;You don't just need you need to create zesty.&quot; And that's where we got zesty pickles. Then the next person came to him: And this was even more important. In fact, Campbell's Soup Campbell's made Prego, and Prego, in the early 80s, which was the dominant In the industry -- I don't or how much time I have to go into this. But it was, technically speaking Prego is a better tomato sauce than Ragu. The quality of the tomato paste the spice mix is far superior; it adheres to the pasta In fact, they would do back in the 70s with Ragu and Prego. You'd have a plate of spaghetti, And the Ragu would all go to the bottom, That's called &quot;adherence.&quot; And, anyway, despite the fact and the quality of their tomato paste, Prego was struggling. So they came to Howard, And Howard looked what you have is a dead tomato society. So he said, this is what I want to do. And he got together and he made 45 varieties And he varied them according that you can vary tomato sauce: by sweetness, by level of garlic, by tomatoey-ness, by visible solids -- my favorite term (Laughter) Every conceivable way he varied spaghetti sauce. And then he took this whole raft and he went on the road. He went to New York, to Chicago, he went to Jacksonville, to Los Angeles. And he brought in people And he sat them down for two hours, and over the course of that two hours, Ten small bowls of pasta, with a different spaghetti And after they ate each bowl, how good they thought At the end of that process, he had a mountain of data about how the American people And then he analyzed the data. Did he look for the most popular No! Howard doesn't believe Instead, he looked let's see if we can group all these Let's see if they congregate And sure enough, if you sit down, and you analyze all this data you realize that all Americans There are people there are people and there are people And of those three facts, because at the time, in the early 1980s, if you went to a supermarket, you would not find And Prego turned to Howard, and they said, &quot;You're telling me crave extra-chunky spaghetti sauce and yet no one is servicing their needs?&quot; And he said &quot;Yes!&quot; (Laughter) And Prego then went back, and completely reformulated and came out with a line of extra chunky took over the spaghetti sauce And over the next 10 years, off their line of extra-chunky sauces. Everyone else in the industry looked &quot;Oh my god! We've been And that's when you started to get and 14 different kinds of mustard, And then eventually and Howard did the exact same thing And today, if you go do you know how many Ragus there are? 36! In six varieties: Cheese, Light, Robusto, Rich &amp; Hearty, Old World Traditional -- Extra-Chunky Garden. (Laughter) That's Howard's doing. That is Howard's gift Now why is that important? (Laughter) It is, in fact, enormously important. I'll explain to you why. What Howard did is he fundamentally about making you happy. Assumption number one that the way to find out what will make people happy, And for years and years and years, Ragu and Prego would have focus groups, and they would sit you down, &quot;What do you want in a spaghetti sauce? Tell us what you want And for all those years -- 20, 30 years -- through all those focus group sessions, no one ever said they wanted extra-chunky. Even though at least a third of them, (Laughter) People don't know what they want! As Howard loves to say, &quot;The mind knows not It's a mystery! (Laughter) And a critically important step in understanding is to realize that we cannot always If I asked all of you, for example, you know what you'd say? Every one of you would say, It's what people always say &quot;What do you like?&quot; What percentage of you actually According to Howard, somewhere Most of you like milky, weak coffee. (Laughter) But you will never, ever say that &quot;I want a milky, weak coffee.&quot; So that's number one thing Number two thing that Howard did it's another very critical point -- he made us realize the importance of what he likes to call Why is this critical? Because this is the way the food industry What were they obsessed with They were obsessed with mustard. In particular, they were obsessed Used to be, there were two mustards: What were they? Yellow mustard. What's in it? Yellow mustard seeds, That was mustard. Grey Poupon came along, with a Dijon. Right? Much more volatile brown mustard seed, much more delicate aromatics. And what do they do? They put it in a little tiny glass jar, made it look French, even though it's made (Laughter) And instead of charging a dollar fifty the way that French's and Gulden's did, they decided to charge four dollars. And they had those ads. With the guy in the Rolls Royce, Another pulls up, and says, And the whole thing, after they did that, Takes over the mustard business! And everyone's take-home lesson from that was that the way to make people happy is to give them something something to aspire to. It's to make them turn their back and reach out for something (Laughter) A better mustard! A mustard of more sophistication And Howard looked to that Mustard does not exist on a hierarchy. Mustard exists, just like tomato sauce, There is no good mustard or bad mustard. There is no perfect mustard There are only different kinds of mustards He fundamentally democratized And for that, as well, we owe Third thing that Howard did, is Howard confronted the notion (Laughter) What do I mean by that? (Laughter) For the longest time in the food industry, there was a sense that there was one way, a perfect way, to make a dish. You go to Chez Panisse, they give you the red-tail sashimi in a something something reduction. They don't give you five options They don't say, &quot;Do you want No! You just get the reduction. Why? Because the chef at Chez Panisse has a Platonic notion &quot;This is the way it ought to be.&quot; And she serves it that way and if you quarrel with her, she will say, &quot;You know what? You're wrong! This is the best way it ought to be Now that same idea fueled They had a Platonic notion And where did that come from? Italian tomato sauce is what? It's blended; it's thin. The culture of tomato sauce was thin. When we talked about &quot;authentic we talked about Italian tomato sauce, we talked about the earliest Ragus, which had no visible solids, right? Which were thin, you just put a little bit and it sunk down to the bottom That's what it was. And why were we attached to that? Because we thought was to provide them with the most And B, we thought that if we gave them then they would embrace it. And that's what would please In other words, people in the cooking world They were looking for one way And it's good reason for them with the idea of universals, because all of science, through the 19th century was obsessed with universals. Psychologists, medical scientists, were all interested that govern the way all of us behave. But that changed, right? What is the great revolution It is the movement to the understanding of variability. Now in medical science, just how cancer works, we want to know how your cancer I guess my cancer different Genetics has opened the door What Howard Moskowitz &quot;This same revolution needs to happen And for that, we owe him I'll give you one last and that is -- oh, I'm sorry. Howard not only believed that, which was to say that when we pursue we aren't just making an error; we are actually doing ourselves And the example he used was coffee. And coffee is something he did If I were to ask all of you to try a type of coffee, a brew -- and then I asked you to rate that coffee, the average score in this room for coffee If, however, you allowed me maybe three or four coffee clusters, and I could make coffee just your scores would go from 60 to 75 or 78. The difference between coffee is a difference between coffee and coffee that makes you That is the final, and I think of Howard Moskowitz: that in embracing the diversity we will find a surer way Thank you. (Applause)