Hello everyone, in this video we're going to talk used in networking, and I'm talking about the tool that you can use to troubleshoot networking use it to test if you're connected to a local internet. You can also use it to test if your it's also used to test DNS issues, such as name ping an IP address of a host. Now this host could router, or printer, whether it's on your local example we're going to ping a server in our local and then we would type the word ping along press 'enter'. Then the ping utility will send out then our computer will wait for a response. Then as a reply and these replies are called echo about what's happening with the server we pinged. is a good sign. Then that means that there is whether that server is on your local area network and then 4 packets were received. But if we get a reply, then that means that the server is no network connectivity between our computer different reasons. So for example, when we ping says 'request timed out' then that could mean that that the server is up and running but it's using Now what happens when you try and ping a host and for example, when you ping a host, your computer only get 1, 2, or 3 packets back instead of the 4 and packet loss can occur for several reasons. there is a lot of traffic on a network and the then the data packets will get dropped. Or it such as bad cables or bad wiring. Or it could or it could be a bad modem, which is exactly ago where I was constantly lagging in just I did a continuous ping test and I was dropping at So I determined that it had to be my modem. Or in another scenario, if we wanted to ping a message that says 'destination host unreachable' cannot be found. So it could mean that a router to the destination or it could also mean that the network. Or it could also mean that your computer ping command in a typical scenario. So suppose connection because they can't access any web pages issue. So the first thing I do is that I would sit if in fact they are not connected to the internet. or any cable connections, the first thing I do command prompt and see if I can ping a website, actually pinging the domain name yahoo.com and I'm also testing name resolution issues related to IP address memorized. So by pinging yahoo.com, we are connected to the internet because when automatically know that all of my hardware, router, and the modem, are all working correctly, know that the reason that this computer can't not hardware. So the problem is most likely with So by doing a ping test first, it saved me a looking around for the modem, or the router, or looking behind the computer to see if a network sat down and did a simple ping test. So really is if the ping was not successful. However even use the ping command to check other things such as correctly, and this is called a loopback test. A computer for testing purposes. So at a command IP address which is 127.0.0.1 or you can simply And if the ping was successful then you can properly. But if the loopback test failed then the ping command can also be used to test DNS name what DNS does, please watch my DNS video on my resolves domain names to IP addresses. So as you domain name 'yahoo.com' instead of its IP address. then that means that all of my hardware is working DNS is working correctly. So as you can see, DNS for yahoo.com. But if we pinged yahoo.com and not find host yahoo.com. Please check the name and our computer could not resolve the domain name to and ping the IP address instead and that's if you if you don't, like most of us don't already, you as Google's DNS IP address, which is 8.8.8.8 and confirms it's a DNS issue, because the computer can So to solve this you can try a few things. You can command prompt or you may want to check your DNS it could also be a problem with the DNS servers internet service provider. And finally the ping commands called 'switches'. And switches are used to alter the parameters of the ping utility and you can view a full list of these switches by typing So thank you all for watching this video, please