Let me go Linchuan They want to lock me up Psychiatric hospital Please save me I told them to do that. Why Qiao Xin How can you exist in this world? Such a woman To elope with a man Not hesitating to kill oneself Biological son I don't know what you're talking about Xiaobao is dead I'm sad too But I am his mother How could I harm him? Because you know Your first love Xiao Minghao Got engaged today So you want to kill Xiaobao Run away with him no I was wrong Still playing Qiao Xin SMS messages on mobile phone I have restored it You are so bad You thought he would want you This is the only one I wore. Slut? This is not what I sent. It's really not me This is not from me. No, I am not me. Lock her up for me. Locked up until death Xiaobao You miss your mother You're back again, right? Did you know The new Qiao Xin Pregnant The one who strangled himself Crazy woman with her own son Should we notify you immediately? Mr. Luo You are stupid I heard that she gave Mr. Luo Wearing a green hat Think about it Could this child be Mr. Luo's? oops Song Yoon-ah What are you doing Of course, it's for Brother Linchuan To vent He married you This is really bad luck. Our family affairs Don't worry about it After I go out I'll certainly check it out. Who did it? Want to go out Brother Linchuan said Wait until Xiaobao passes the test He will divorce you. You Just wait and see it rot here No I am pregnant Linchuan will soon Take me out woman Pregnant again Linchuan's brother's child I'll give you five hundred thousand. tonight I want Qiao Xin and The baby in her belly Let's go to hell together doctor I'm from Luo Group. President's Wife Please help me I want to see Luo Linchuan Stop dreaming Mr. Luo explained I and the baby in your belly All must die No That's his own flesh and blood. He won't do that. Heard Mr. Luo has already planned to The daughter of Duo Group Song Yoon-ah is engaged Do you think Who will keep a child? In this world It's impossible to be so cruel open Before Xiaobao's death This is my favorite game Linchuan Brother My sister must have a hard history. Shut up In the future, this home Not allowed to appear again The woman's name Sorry to bother Mr. Luo Your wife has had a heart attack. Passed away What Mr. Luo You need to come to pick it up Madam's body? Behind your hospital Isn't there a wasteland? Throw it to the dog Mom, don't worry. Didn't the doctor tell you? Find something to give to Xiao Ai The one who performed the surgery Xiao Ai is right Then later The uncle who matched you is here. You should thank him very much Qiao Xin You are not dead Why didn't you die? Don't come to me Do you know that I What do I want you to do? Kill me again? I Mother Who is this uncle? You gave birth to another daughter Qiao Xin You are so bad You just strangled yourself It won't be long before my biological son is born. You can't wait Climb into another man's bed? Luo Linchuan, don't go too far. Xiao Ai, she is your child You're still lying Big Bad Don't bully my mother Six years You think you can just bring Will I recognize the child when he comes back? Mom and uncle have something to say Go find the nurse first. Is it good to take medicine? good Go ahead It seems Who I want to donate bone marrow to It's your daughter. Successful match It's you I won't save her. Having a mother like you Her illness is her karma Let her die. Linchuan Linchuan, I beg you Save my daughter What do you want me to do? I am willing Really Linchuan Brother I got the marriage report. You here Qiao Xin You are not dead how Are you disappointed that I didn't die? Sister, what are you saying? A week later, Xiaobao's Death Anniversary My sister is back this time You came here specifically to see Xiaobao, right? She's here for her child. I'm looking for a bone marrow donation My sister has a baby so soon It seems My sister didn't Back then, I lost my mind The matter of strangling Xiaobao Too guilty That's good I'm also afraid of my sister Can't get out? Shut up What qualifications do you have to touch her? Linchuan Brother Don't be too angry You're not here to save me My sister's daughter? Let me save that child. Not that easy Qiao Xin Xiaobao's Spirit in Heaven Death Immortal Eye You redeem your Let's talk about the crime later Xiaobao Mom is here to see you. lady Thank you for your hard work Afang I have a little here you go All the money that Erdidi left I will call you every penny. Thank you, Miss Song. I have been abroad for several years You take advantage of the opportunity Marry Linchuan Took away what originally belonged to My happiness today I'm gonna let you Give it all back to me Help! Mom is here to see you. Linchuan Brother I stand here I can think of Xiaobao I'm so heartbroken. Let's go. Yoona You go back first I have something To talk to her So many years have passed You to Xiaobao Is there a trace of guilt? I regret Haven't found it yet The one who actually killed him Let him for so many years They all died sometime soon. You are still arguing You didn't say As long as I give that child Donate bone marrow Can you do anything? what do you want to do This is Xiaobao's first birthday party. The names of the business celebrities invited to the banquet No more, no less Exactly one hundred You go accompany them When did you finish accompanying me? When will I give that child Doing surgery I'm not going Luo Linchuan I also have dignity You can't be so shy about me You hurt Xiaobao. Not just for Climb into another man's bed? I am also doing this for you I won't go If you don't want to donate bone marrow I will take Xiao Ai away I have already taken that child Took it to another hospital You can only cooperate with me If you don't agree How did you treat Xiaobao? How can I be She's back don't want I beg you don't want Xiao Ai is not feeling well She can't stand your torture. Now Do you know what to do? I go good I like the way you listen Luo Linchuan You devil Room A05, Sovereign Hotel Your first guest Why are you here? Luo Linchuan What are you doing Do you remember this room? At that time you and Xiao Minghao Agree on a place to elope What a pity Discovered by Chong'er I didn't let you Women have to go far I don't know what you're talking about That text message It's really not from me. Why don't you believe me? Didn't I believe you? I believe you will forget Xiao Minghao Live a good life with me But what did I get in return? It's betrayal It's hatred That's not the case. I drank a glass of milk. I don't know anything. I won't trust you anymore Never again I am your first guest You behave well I'll tell you The whereabouts of the child This is your child's. address You can go and have a look I will arrange it for you tomorrow New People You behave well Don't delay my business otherwise You know the consequences Mother Xiao Ai Has it been bad these days? Bully you Are you injured anywhere? No The doctor here Nurse Aunt My mother came to take care of me. Bring me something delicious Mom ring woman come What did you say? What are you doing here? Qiao Xin Why do you always haunted Appear in me and Next to Brother Linchuan Six years ago Now still Now I am your Linchuan brother He refused to let us go. Instead of you being here Trouble me I'd rather go back by myself. Ask clearly shameless Bad Woman Don't bully my mother Yoona Linchuan Brother it hurts Yoona Visitors Put these two Don't know what's going on Take it to Luo's training room Mother Xiao Ai is so cold Don't be afraid, Xiao Ai Mommy protects you Why is it so hot? Do you have a fever? Long time no see lady Afang Xiao Ai has a fever She needs to go to the hospital Please let me out What are you still standing there for? Hurry up and hold her down. Afang What are you going to do? lady Oh no Miss Qiao Please don't blame me To blame You can only blame this kid. Hurt the future wife of the Luo family don't want Don't touch Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Wake up! Miss Qiao Why don't you let go Don't blame me for being rude. Ahhh Run What are you still standing there for? Hurry up and Catch that kid back to me. This is not Miss Joe's How did you get here? I'm not punishing you. Have you been to Xuncheng Hall? Sorry Mr. Luo I didn't keep an eye on her and she ran away. My mother is about to be beaten to death How can it be so hot? Assistant Chen You take this child with you Go to the hospital No matter what the cost To save her life yes Where is Qiao Xin? Take me there I just stabbed you a few times. It won't work. Wait for the kid to catch it. Let her try it too The feeling of being stabbed How dare you touch my daughter's hair? I will definitely kill you Your current identity Not even as good as a dog Miss Qiao You still want to kill me I'm gonna crush you now Than crushing an ant All simple Mr. Luo How come you are here How many times Double Return tenfold I'm really crazy Actually it would be You're a woman who worries You're with another man Born a child Almost lost my life But he killed himself Biological son Qiao Xin You have such a cruel heart. Big Bad Don't say bad things about your mother. Your mother did so many bad things. In exchange for you Supporters are not at a disadvantage nonsense My mother never Never done anything bad You big bad guy I hate you You later Stay away from my mother This Pekin I don't know whose mother he took after. Wake up! The bad guy is here again You beat him away! alright Don't disturb your mother's rest here. Get out now Mom, wake up! I put my favorite Toys for you Where did you get this toy? You give it back to me Big Bad You give it back to me Big Bad You give it back to me You actually put Xiaobao Favorite Toy Bought it for this kid Who are you disgusting? You give it back to me Shut up What did you just call? Who do you call daddy? Luo Linchuan You let her go Dad Xiao, save me Xiao Minghao She calls you daddy So she is You and Yang Xinsheng Luo Linchuan Your face Did you trade your IQ for it? What's the meaning Xiao Ai Mother Are you okay? Xiao's father is here. Dad Xiao can Beat the bad guy just I have something to tell you Luo Linchuan Are you still human? Why are you doing this to her? Who are you to her? What qualifications do you have to question me? She and her children Hurt my fiancee I gave her a little punishment What's the matter What a small punishment Going to the emergency room Go ask her yourself. This is all her own will. I didn't force her. Luo Linchuan You would rather trust an outsider Don't you want to believe her? What kind of person is she? Don't you know clearly? Who is Let you lynch I I just thought She strangled the young master to death Angry To punish her I can only do it What are you? I don't believe it You are a little servant Such courage Is there someone behind you? explain Mr. Luo did not say To use SX on Miss Qiao We do this Isn't that good? Not so good So what do you think Selling Linchuan luxury watches Is this a good thing? Sorry, Miss Song. You mustn't take this matter Tell Mr. Luo I was too talkative just now That's right If Linchuan This is your story Who ordered you to do this? explain Mr. Luo Please forgive me I'm telling you the truth yes Miss Qiao asked me to do this. What nonsense are you talking about? She said She strangled the young master You won't forgive her. Only by doing this You will pity her Only then will it be given to that child Donate bone marrow You know what happens when you lie to me Mr. Luo Think about it carefully If she hadn't directed it The Child How can you escape from our guard? escape I just happened to bump into you Qiao Xin You for that child I didn't hesitate to act so big A play to deceive me I won't let you go Absolutely not AIDS Why didn't you tell me I usually call you It's also about reporting good news but not bad news You have helped before We have so many This little thing How can I trouble you? Our Relationship Is there any trouble? What is your relationship? What are you doing mom Don't call me mom You a woman Killed my grandson That's fine. And pulled a little kid My son's life This aunt When you don't know something Before Please don't talk nonsense I'm talking to Qiao Xin. Where are you from man? you Minghao You should take Xiao Ai out first. I'll have a good chat with my aunt. Let's go What do you think? For such a man He actually put his Killed his own son Aunt I'm still investigating what happened back then I believe The truth always comes out That Day You dare to argue? Linchuan Why don't you let me hit her? Could it be I'm afraid of dirtying your hands. Luo Linchuan mom You go back first I have something to do I want to be with this girl Chat alone Luo Linchuan Are you crazy? Qiao Xin I have already Kind enough? Why do you keep Again and again To challenge my bottom line I I don't know what you're talking about. Who to call? Go call that kid. ? Luo Linchuan, you are unreasonable Unreasonable What are you doing My phone There is something very important I'm telling you Qiao Xin Little Treasure's Stories I will never forget it in my life Don't say you're dead. You and your child Dead Not enough for you Not enough for you Pay it back Pay it back Starting from tomorrow Starting from tomorrow Your mission of accompanying guests continues Your mission of accompanying guests continues I will give it to you slowly I will give it to you slowly Arrange people Arrange people But if you want, but if you want I can put Xiao Minghao I can put Xiao Minghao Arrange for you Arrange for you No no I beg you, I beg you Don't tell Minghao Don't tell Minghao I beg you, I beg you What should I do? What should I do? The more you care about something, the more you care about it The more I want to destroy something, the more I want to destroy it. I beg you, I beg you Is this how you beg people? Is this how you beg people? Find Qiao Xin now Find Qiao Xin now Where do you live? Where do you live? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay The photos are not lost. The photos are not lost. Mommy Mommy Who is this? Who is this? This is this Hello Express Hello Express Coming, coming Play next time Play next time Yes Blame it on me It's your fault. It's your fault. People who should not be provoked People who should not be provoked What's going on now? What's going on now? It just happened to appear on the road It just happened to appear on the road Traffic Accident Traffic Accident xfy is stuck in traffic Mr. Luo, what are you doing? Mr. Luo, what are you doing? Help! Help! I won't go in with that woman anymore. I won't go in with that woman anymore. Died there. Died there. If you want to go in, if you want to go in God and Miss Song will definitely Eat my food eat my food You stop me again You stop me again I'll roast you right nowI'll roast you right now Stay here and get me. Stay here and get me. Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Wake up, wake up Your life is in my hands Your life is in my hands Did you hear it? Did you hear it? Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Big bad guy Big bad guy Open up My mom My mom I'm glad you're okay, Mr. Luo. I'm glad you're okay, Mr. Luo. Take good care of her. Take good care of her. Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Wake up! Don't fall asleep. Don't fall asleep. I'll get you out now I'll get you out now Dad, Dad Is that you? Is that you? Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan You hate us so much You hate us so much Why do we have to do it again? Why do we have to do it again Rescue it, rescue it Why are you two here? Why are you two here? Still complaining about my brother Linchuan Still complaining about my brother Linchuan Isn't it tragic enough? Isn't it tragic enough? I just want to bring Xiao Ai here. I just want to bring Xiao Ai here. Thank him, thank him. No need, no need If it weren't for If it weren't for You two, you two My Linchuan brother My Linchuan brother How can I lie here injured? How can I lie here injured? Why wasn't it you who was burned to death? Why wasn't it you who was burned to death? Hello, old witch. Hello, old witch. It's so noisy. It's so noisy. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan You finally woke up You finally woke up You scared Chong'er. You scared Chong'er. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan Our wedding date is coming soon Our wedding date is coming soon It's coming. It's coming. At this time, at this time If you want to save them, Whatever happened, whatever happened How can I be with my mother? How can I be with my mother? Explain to the other elders. Explain to the other elders. Don't worry. Don't worry. I save them I save them Because of them, because of them The debt you owe me has not been repaid yet The debt you owe me has not been repaid yet I can't let her introduce me. I can't let her introduce me. It's so easy to die and eat. It's so easy to die and eat. Since Mr. Luo has woken up Since Mr. Luo has woken up Then we'll go first. Then we'll go first. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Aren't you here to thank me? Aren't you here to thank me? This is gone. This is gone. What else does Mr. Luo want me to do? What else does Mr. Luo want me to do? Go to my house and take care of me Go to my house and take care of me Until I Until I old witch old witch It's terrible. It's terrible. you you I'll help you I'll help you Mom, are you okay? Mom, are you okay? Mom, you, mom, you Bad woman bad woman Just know how to bully my mother Just know how to bully my mother That's what your mother deserves. That's what your mother deserves. What's wrong with you? Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan I was just being kind. I was just being kind. Help my sister serve soup Help my sister serve soup The floor is too slippery and I accidentally spilled it. The floor is too slippery and I accidentally spilled it. As a result, her daughter Just throw the pieces of the casserole at me. Just throw the pieces of the casserole at me. You say, you say Will my eyes go out? Will my eyes go out? Bad woman nonsense Bad woman nonsense It's obviously her. It's obviously her. You're just like your mother You're just like your mother If Yoona's eyes If Yoona's eyes Any questions? Any questions? I dug up your child's I dug up your child's Give her the eyes. Give her the eyes. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Are you okay? Are you okay? Mommy Mommy It's okay. It's okay. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Xiao Ai, don't touch your mother. Xiao Ai, don't touch your mother. Wake up, Xiao Ai. Wake up, Xiao Ai. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai It's all my mom's fault. It's all my mom's fault. Mommy shouldn't have taken you there Mommy shouldn't have taken you there It's all mom's fault. It's all mom's fault. How is Xiao Ai? How is Xiao Ai? Send to hospital emergency room Send to hospital emergency room The doctor has given the order. The doctor has given the order. Critical Illness Notice Critical Illness Notice Don't worry. Don't worry. Xiao Ai is so well behaved Xiao Ai is so well behaved God must be reluctant to take her away. God must be reluctant to take her away. This time Finally out of danger. Finally out of danger. As soon as possible or as soon as possible Bone marrow transplant. Bone marrow transplant. Otherwise, otherwise You may not be so lucky next time. You may not be so lucky next time. Who did this? Who did this? Doctor Doctor How is the situation? How is the situation? The wound is deep. The wound is deep. Possibly surgery Possibly surgery Serious words Serious words There is a risk of blindness. There is a risk of blindness. What what Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan Do you want to Cancel our wedding Cancel our wedding What nonsense are you talking about? What nonsense are you talking about? I can't stand one I can't stand one I'm not perfect, I'm marrying you I'm not perfect, I'm marrying you Don't worry, don't worry I will definitely return it to you - double I will definitely return it to you - double intact eyes intact eyes Why did you get hurt? Why did you get hurt? Don't tell me, don't tell me You usually Help me and Xiao Ai so much Help me and Xiao Ai so much How can I feel sorry for such a minor injury? How can I feel sorry for such a minor injury? Please, please, please. You remember, you remember Your business Your business Prioritizes everything else Prioritizes everything else So next time, so next time What's going on? What's going on? You must find me as soon as possible. You must find me as soon as possible. Follow me, follow me Stop! Stop! Where are you taking her? Where are you taking her? For her, for her The mistakes her children made The mistakes her children made If you don't want to let your If you don't want to let your Brother Minghao knows. Brother Minghao knows. The promise between you and me The promise between you and me Just follow me, just follow me Ming Hao Ming Hao This is indeed the case. What Xiao Ai did was wrong What Xiao Ai did was wrong I should be with Miss Yoona I should be with Miss Yoona It's not compensation. It's not compensation. Apologize to Chong'er on behalf of that child. Apologize to Chong'er on behalf of that child. Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan Even if Xiao Ai is wrong, even if Xiao Ai is wrong That's also Jung Yoon-ah. That's also Jung Yoon-ah. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan Don't blame your sister. Don't blame your sister. What Yoona Lost What Yoona Lost Just an eye My sister lost my sister lost But your feelings for her, but your feelings for her Emotional The feelings between us The feelings between us As early as six years ago As early as six years ago When she goes crazy When she goes crazy It's gone, it's gone Still don't admit your mistakes. Miss Yoona Miss Yoona Sorry, sorry. Starting from tomorrow Starting from tomorrow Your mission continues Your mission continues When is it completed? When is it completed? I promise, I promise Give that child surgery Give that child surgery As soon as possible or as soon as possible Bone marrow transplant. Bone marrow transplant. well I promise you I promise you Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan Are you just going to let her go? Are you just going to let her go? I thought I thought My sister will compensate me with a pair of eyes. My sister will compensate me with a pair of eyes. So you want to dig So you want to dig Qiao Xin's eyes Qiao Xin's eyes Still want that, still want that Where are the children's eyes? Where are the children's eyes? Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan What did you say? What did you say? Weird scary weird scary Yoona Yoona You should know that you should know that I hate it most when people lie to me. I hate it most when people lie to me. Our wedding date is coming soon Our wedding date is coming soon I don't want this marriage. I don't want this marriage. Any omissions Any omissions Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan What do you mean by that? What do you mean by that? I never had I never had I cheated you I have always been clear about gratitude and resentment. I have always been clear about gratitude and resentment. Even though her daughter hurt you Even though her daughter hurt you But but It is true that you put the hot soup first. It is true that you put the hot soup first. Sent to Yang Xin Sent to Yang Xin You just kept interrupting her. You just kept interrupting her. It is also to cover up. It is also to cover up. This matter, this matter Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan I didn't mean it. I didn't mean it. You should know you should know I followed a murderer I followed a murderer The mother of her own child The mother of her own child There won't be any possibility. There won't be any possibility. So you don't have to anymore. So you don't have to anymore. Try your best to deal with the girl Try your best to deal with the girl I have my own methods I have my own methods Brother Chuan Brother Chuan I have something else to do. I have something else to do. I'll come to see you when I'm done. I'll come to see you when I'm done. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan I don't believe it. I don't believe it. Are you treating her well? Are you treating her well? No regrets at all? No regrets at all? Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan What is that woman doing? What is that woman doing? You arranged for her last week You arranged for her last week Today I went to see Dingsheng Group. Today I went to see Dingsheng Group. Mr. Wang Mr. Wang It should have arrived by nowIt should have arrived by now Do this kind of thing. Do this kind of thing. She is more positive than anyone else. She is more positive than anyone else. I heard that this master is very cruel. I heard that this master is very cruel. Every time I go, every time I go Serve His People Serve His People I couldn't get out of bed for several days. I couldn't get out of bed for several days. Drive a car Go to the nightclub Go to the nightclub Yes Yes Sisters Sisters I tell you I tell you The money of the guests in this box The money of the guests in this box It's not easy to make money. He is a pervert. He is a pervert. It must be painful, it must be painful My son is sick My son is sick To earn money for his medical expenses To earn money for his medical expenses What's the pain? What's the pain? When my daughter was little, when my daughter was little Fall often Fall often I'll put this on her. I'll put this on her. You take it. You take it. Where are the people? No more people coming. No more people coming. I'm complaining about you I'm complaining about you Hello Mr. Wang Hello Mr. Wang I was introduced by Luo Linchuan I was introduced by Luo Linchuan Mr. Wang Mr. Wang The wine is ready. The wine is ready. I'll drink with you I'll drink with you Don't worry, don't worry What about me? What about me? Have some special little interests Have some special little interests Hope Hope Can you follow me? Can you follow me? Play slowly Play slowly Mr. Wang Mr. Wang Let's have a drink firstLet's have a drink first Little Beauty Little Beauty Exciting Exciting It's just the beginning It's just the beginning I was wrong. I was wrong. I won't dare to do it again. I won't dare to do it again. What are you talking about? Where is the woman who was here just now? Where is the woman who was here just now? Mr. Luo Mr. Luo You're finally here You're finally here That woman just now That woman just now She actually asked her helpers to beat me She actually asked her helpers to beat me Where is she? Where is she? Who is it? Who is it? Ming Hao Ming Hao Stop hitting me. Stop hitting me. Another fatality. Another fatality. She is a woman indeed. She is a woman indeed. Seducing men everywhere Seducing men everywhere Mr. Wang Mr. Wang I like playing this so much. I like playing this so much. Then I will accompany you. Then I will accompany you. Have fun, have fun Sit down Fortunately, I went in time. Fortunately, I went in time. The doctor said your doctor said your Extremely nervous Extremely nervous Let you rest well Let you rest well Thank you Minghao Thank you Minghao I don't want to hear thank you. I don't want to hear thank you. I just wanna know I just wanna know Didn't you leave with Luo Linchuan? Didn't you leave with Luo Linchuan? How could it appear there? How could it appear there? I I You just promised me You just promised me No matter what happens, no matter what happens I'll tell you the first time I'll tell you the first time I I I really want to be I really want to be You and Xiao Ai's reliance You and Xiao Ai's reliance Today is an accident Today is an accident Ming Hao Ming Hao Thank you thank you Xiao Ai is still waiting for me at home. Xiao Ai is still waiting for me at home. She wakes up and can't see me She wakes up and can't see me I will be anxious. I will be anxious. Xinxin I will always wait for you Xinxin I will always wait for you No matter when you look back, no matter when you look back I'll always be behind you I'll always be behind you I'm sorry Minghao. I'm sorry Minghao. Now I am now I am Not worthy of you Not worthy of you Take medicine. Take medicine. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Xiao Ai is missing Xiao Ai is missing Stop looking. Stop looking. That child that child Now should now should Are you donating corneas to Chong'er? Are you donating corneas to Chong'er? What do you say? What do you say? I'm going to save my daughter I'm going to save my daughter It's too late for you to go now It's too late for you to go now Just you and Xiao Minghao Just you and Xiao Minghao When it's hard to part, when it's hard to part She's already in the operating room. She's already in the operating room. Inseparable Inseparable I almost got killed by that boss today. I almost got killed by that boss today. Beat him to death Beat him to death If Minghao hadn't arrived in time, I I So you're blaming me So you're blaming me Let you accompany Mr. Wang Let you accompany Mr. Wang Don't you forget Don't you forget These are what you promised. These are what you promised. Yes, yes. How can I expect How can I expect Mr. Luo will always have compassion. Mr. Luo will always have compassion. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin This is all your karma. This is all your karma. If you hadn't treated Xiaobao like that, How could it be so desolate? How could it be so desolate? Fall in love with you This is my greatest retribution This is my greatest retribution Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Mommy Mommy Xiao Ai Xiao Ai It's mom, it's mom I'm sorry, I'm sorry Mom, what's wrong with you? Mom, what's wrong with you? Your eyes are fine. Your eyes are fine. You didn't do it yesterday. You didn't do it yesterday. Did you have surgery? Did you have surgery? Brother Chen and I are having a good time. Went to the amusement park Went to the amusement park It's fun. It's fun. Stop looking. Stop looking. That child that child Now should be givenNow should be given Did Yoona donate her corneas? Did Yoona donate her corneas? Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan What on earth do you want to do? What on earth do you want to do? woman woman I shouldn't have rented the house to you. I shouldn't have rented the house to you. Nice house, nice house Burn me like this Burn me like this Auntie Sorry, sorry. Loss of a house Loss of a house I will pay you back I will pay you back You pay, you pay You lady, you lady What are you going to pay for? What are you going to pay for? What nonsense are you talking about? What nonsense are you talking about? How what I dare to do it but I dare not let others say it. I dare to do it but I dare not let others say it. I have observed you several times. I have observed you several times. They all go out at midnight. They all go out at midnight. I came back drunk. I came back drunk. If you are not a lady, then what are you? ... I won't rent your house anymore I won't rent your house anymore How much compensation do you need? How much compensation do you need? I'll get it together for you as soon as possible. ... Seven hundred thousand Seven hundred thousand The market price of your house The market price of your house There is not even 700,000. ... I have this seven hundred thousand. I have this seven hundred thousand. It's not just my house that's damaged. It's not just my house that's damaged. And my mental damages. And my mental damages. My future house My future house You have to pay for the rental risk. You have to pay for the rental risk. You are the lion's mouth You are the lion's mouth I'm not talking to you anymore I'm not talking to you anymore Find a lawyer to talk to me Find a lawyer to talk to me you you Going Around I still want to run. I still want to run. You go to my house and give it to my son You go to my house and give it to my son Enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy I will pay you back according to the number of times I will pay you back according to the number of times How about it? Don't come here, don't come here Come over here again. Come over here again. I'm not welcome. I'm not welcome. How many men have you been with? How many men have you been with? Still here Still here Why pretend to be pure? Why pretend to be pure? Come on, come on Let me go, let me go You let go, you let go My son My son Where are the people from? Where are the people from? How dare you hit my son How dare you hit my son How dare you hit me? Are you okay, Mr. Luo? Are you okay, Mr. Luo? Mr. Luo Mr. Luo There's a million here There's a million here Seven hundred thousand Seven hundred thousand As compensation for your house As compensation for your house The remaining three hundred thousand Assistant Chen Assistant Chen Find someone to take these two The cannibalistic mother and son The cannibalistic mother and son Break all my limbs. Break all my limbs. Just treat these three hundred thousand as this three hundred thousand Compensate for your medical expenses. Compensate for your medical expenses. Tuzhu, Mr. Luo. Tuzhu, Mr. Luo. A few days ago, there was a woman. A few days ago, there was a woman. Call me Call me Miss Qiao is Miss Qiao. Come out to sell Come out to sell She gave me a lot of money She gave me a lot of money Let me teach her a lesson Let me teach her a lesson Right, right, right. Know that it is yours Know that it is yours How dare we? How dare we? Mother You call her now You call her now Hurry up! Hurry up! Phone Yes Yes It's an empty number Come on, come on Take away No no You protected my mom You protected my mom This is your reward This is your reward Xinxin, how are you? Xinxin, how are you? Minghao I'm fine Minghao I'm fine Don't worry, don't worry follow me home follow me home Live at my place from now on Live at my place from now on Stop! Stop! Thank you Mr. Luo for your help. Thank you Mr. Luo for your help. I will visit you later. I will visit you later. No need. No need. Today, the two of them Today, the two of them You have to follow me. You have to follow me. I'm warning you I'm warning you Don't go too far. Don't go too far. You can ask Qiao Xin. You can ask Qiao Xin. A promise between the two of us A promise between the two of us I'll go with him I'll go with him Qiao Xin Qiao Xin What kind of person is he? What kind of person is he? You know it, you know it You forgot last time You forgot last time I have already promised Mr. Luo. I have already promised Mr. Luo. I want to work as a servant in his house. I want to work as a servant in his house. Replace the compensation just now Replace the compensation just now I can help you I can help you No, no, no I have hands and feet I have hands and feet You can pay it back yourself. You can pay it back yourself. Did you hear that? Did you hear that? She came on her own initiative. I didn't force her. I didn't force her. I'm sorry Minghao. I'm sorry Minghao. Forgive my selfishness Forgive my selfishness I can't take you anymore I can't take you anymore Roll in Roll in Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Miss Miss Don't treat her as a guest. Don't treat her as a guest. She will be like you in the future. They are all servants of this family. They are all servants of this family. Hello Mr. Luo. Hello Mr. Luo. Take her down Take her down The underground warehouse in the future The underground warehouse in the future That utility room That utility room Leave it to them, mother and daughter. Leave it to them, mother and daughter. well I am very satisfied with your Fengfeng performance. I am very satisfied with your Fengfeng performance. Leave Xiao Minghao from now on The farther the better. The farther the better. How what Is Mr. Luo jealous? Is Mr. Luo jealous? Jealousy Like you, like you A woman who lets others play with her What are the qualifications? What are the qualifications? Make me jealous, make me jealous I'm just simple I'm just simple I don't like him. I don't like him. Linchuan Look, I brought you this. Look, I brought you this. What what Why is my sister here? Why is my sister here? I helped her pay it off. I helped her pay it off. Compensation for the house Compensation for the house The next few months The next few months She's coming to our house She's coming to our house Work to pay off debts Work to pay off debts But my sister is so delicate But my sister is so delicate How can I do such rough work? How can I do such rough work? Woman by woman What is there to be precious about? What is there to be precious about? Dirty chores at home from now on Dirty chores at home from now on Let her do it alone. Let her do it alone. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin I won't let you have it easy I won't let you have it easy Your days in the future Your days in the future What are you doing? What are you doing? Of course, we need to take away the dirt. Of course, we need to take away the dirt. Wash it clean. Wash it clean. Ways to seduce a man Ways to seduce a man So many Usual dirty things Usual dirty things You've done a lot, haven't you? You've done a lot, haven't you? You dare to hit me You dare to hit me I'll kill you, I'll kill you Your child Your child Start from today Start from today All the land of the Luo family All the land of the Luo family It's all up to you Kneel down and wipe it clean with your hands Kneel down and wipe it clean with your hands How are you? How are you? Qiao Xin just now Qiao Xin just now Busy sending messages to Xiao Minghao Busy sending messages to Xiao Minghao Did not clean up the water on the ground Did not clean up the water on the ground It made me fall It made me fall What Yoona said Is it all true? Is it all true? Since Mr. Luo doesn't believe me, Mr. Luo doesn't believe me Why ask me? Why ask me? You drink this You drink this I believe you I believe you Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan Are you a devil Are you a devil Qiao Xin Qiao Xin I think you forgot I think you forgot What will happen if you go against me? What will happen if you go against me? Do you want me to tell you? Do you want me to tell you? Baby girl Baby girl Her mother used to be her mother used to be What did you do? What did you do? No no Please, please, please No no Isn't it just dirty water? Isn't it just dirty water? I drink I drink I'm giving you two choices I'm giving you two choices Either or Just go to the side. Just go to the side. Kneeling on the broken glass for a day and a night Kneeling on the broken glass for a day and a night Either or I will tell Xiao Minghao I will tell Xiao Minghao The promise between you and me The promise between you and me Qiao Xin Qiao Xin You would rather hurt yourself You would rather hurt yourself I don't want to be with Xiao Minghao. I don't want to be with Xiao Minghao. Separate? Separate? Qiao Xin Qiao Xin No, I am not me. It's really not me. It's really not me. No, I am not me. Why why Why six years? Why six years? I haven't forgotten you I haven't forgotten you I hate it so much. I hate it so much. I hate you for killing me Our Son Our Son But you appear again But you appear again When I'm by my side When I'm by my side I still can't help it I still can't help it I want to protect you. I want to protect you. Wow So sour, so sour You say, you say I love sour food. I love sour food. Should I get pregnant? Should I get pregnant? It's a son, right? It's a son, right? Whether it's a son or a son Daughter or daughter They are all our little babies. They are all our little babies. What if it's a son? What if it's a son? It's us two fathers protecting you. It's us two fathers protecting you. If it's a daughter, then I am the one who protects you and your daughter. I am the one who protects you and your daughter. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin You took my brother Linchuan away You took my brother Linchuan away I won't let you have it easy I won't let you have it easy This is this Mommy Mommy Mom, are you Mom, are you I'm sick. I'm sick. Xiao Ai is really worried about you. Xiao Ai is really worried about you. Mom is just too tired Mom is just too tired Just take a break. Just take a break. Is he a bad guy? Is he a bad guy? I bullied you, I bullied you Xiao Ai just saw Xiao Ai just saw The bad guy is crying. The bad guy is crying. Crying Crying What Xiao Ai saw secretly What Xiao Ai saw secretly Big bad guy shame on his face Big bad guy shame on his face You are all grown-ups, and you are still crying. You are all grown-ups, and you are still crying. LinchuanLinchuan I can't understand you anymore. I can't understand you anymore. Brother Xiaobao Brother Xiaobao Don't go, don't go Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Xiao Ai, wake up. Xiao Ai, wake up. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai What did Er Feng just dream about! What did Er Feng just dream about! There is a guy named Brother Xiaobao. There is a guy named Brother Xiaobao. Let me play with toys Let me play with toys Took me a lot Took me a lot Fun place Fun place Still reminding me and reminding me Let me take good care of my mother. Let me take good care of my mother. Mom, I'm sleepy Mom, I'm sleepy Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Let's lie down and sleep. Let's lie down and sleep. Little baby, little baby This is our little treasure. This is our little treasure. My favorite doll, right? My favorite doll, right? Wife, wife Happy Anniversary Happy Anniversary It was not easy to coax her to sleep. It was not easy to coax her to sleep. Wife, wife You followed me these years. You followed me these years. Thank you for your hard work. Now Luo's GroupNow Luo's Group Already established a firm foothold in the city. Already established a firm foothold in the city. We have our own baby too. We have our own baby too. Don't worry, don't worry From now on From now on I won't let you suffer anymore. I won't let you suffer anymore. LinchuanLinchuan Why we why we It's come to this point today It's come to this point today I am with my brother in Linchuan I am with my brother in Linchuan Around for so many years Around for so many years Why did she come back? Why did she come back? Just took away everything from me Just took away everything from me Waste Waste What use do I have for you? What use do I have for you? A woman with a child A woman with a child I can't handle it. I can't handle it. Miss Song Miss Song That Qiao Xin That Qiao Xin I am very careful in doing things. I am very careful in doing things. I really can't pick it out. I really can't pick it out. What's wrong? What's wrong? That is, normal times. That is, normal times. A little help from you A little help from you But other mistakes But other mistakes I really can't find it. I really can't find it. Then find a way. Then find a way. Let her make mistakes, let her make mistakes That woman That woman She values her daughter the most. If you can find a way, if you can find a way Get her daughter into some trouble Get her daughter into some trouble She will definitely live a life worse than death She will definitely live a life worse than death A Fang A Fang Go get that child. Go get that child. Take it to the second floor Take it to the second floor That room That room Miss Song, no, Miss Song, no That is Mr. Luo's forbidden area. That is Mr. Luo's forbidden area. No one can no one can I understand. I understand. I'll do it right now. I'll do it right now. Car Car Tonight Tonight It's your death. It's your death. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai I brought it to you. I brought it to you. Your favorite food Your favorite food Small CakeSmall Cake Xiao Ai Xiao Ai What happened? What happened? Xiao Ai is missing Xiao Ai is missing When I went to buy groceries today, She's still here. She's still here. Room in the room I seem to see it today I seem to see it today Going upstairs Going upstairs I was busy I was busy I didn't see it too clearly. I didn't see it too clearly. Which room did she go to? Which room did she go to? Mommy, Xiao Ai, I'm so scared Mommy, Xiao Ai, I'm so scared Xiao Ai is not afraid, Xiao Ai is not afraid Mom is coming Mom is coming You did this. You did this. LinchuanLinchuan Xiao Ai can't do it. Xiao Ai can't do it. This kind of thing Mommy Mommy Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Why are you like that? I don't know what's good, I don't know what's good, You obviously know you obviously know What I care about most What I care about most You let your children You let your children Destroy it. Destroy it. LinchuanLinchuan Xiao Ai won't do such a thing Xiao Ai won't do such a thing You little child You little child I am today I am today Except for you, this trouble. Except for you, this trouble. Luo Linchuan, don't scare her Luo Linchuan, don't scare her If this continues, Someone will die. Someone will die. Human life Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Are you trying to kill someone? Are you trying to kill someone? If this child knew Her beloved mother is a murderer Her beloved mother is a murderer What would she think? What would she think? Don't talk nonsense. Don't talk nonsense. I beg you, please let her go I beg you, please let her go She can't be stimulated anymore. She can't be stimulated anymore. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Wake up, don't scare your mother. Wake up, don't scare your mother. Oh, Linchuan! Oh, Linchuan! I heard about leukemia I heard about leukemia It's normal to have a nosebleed. It's normal to have a nosebleed. Could it be? Could it be? Sister, in order to make you sister, in order to make you Spare this child, spare this child. It's a self-torture trick. It's a self-torture trick. Shut up, Song Yoon Ah! Shut up, Song Yoon Ah! Yoona is now Yoona is now The mistress of this home The mistress of this home It's not your turn to teach her a lesson It's not your turn to teach her a lesson LinchuanLinchuan I beg you, I beg you Please take Xiao Ai to the hospital. Please take Xiao Ai to the hospital. I'm afraid it's too late, I'm afraid it's too late She won't be able to hold on. She won't be able to hold on. Let me save this little kid Let me save this little kid Yes, yes, yes Wait until she wakes up Wait until she wakes up You personally sent her to the orphanage. You personally sent her to the orphanage. Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan What are you talking about? What are you talking about? Xiao Ai is my child Xiao Ai is my child Why send her away? Why send her away? Ever since she appeared Ever since she appeared I have never had a good thing happen to me. I have never had a good thing happen to me. This kind of jinx This kind of jinx Why do I keep her? Why do I keep her? No no I've lost my little treasure I've lost my little treasure I can't lose Xiao Ai again. I can't lose Xiao Ai again. Don't take this child. Don't take this child. Compare with XiaobaoCompare with Xiaobao I still say the same thing I still say the same thing If you don't agree, if you don't agree You just watch her die here You just watch her die here It can be regarded as a burial with Xiaobao. It can be regarded as a burial with Xiaobao. Mommy Mommy It hurts so much, Xiao Ai It hurts so much, Xiao Ai well I promise you I promise you Wait for Xiao Ai's surgery to be completed. Wait for Xiao Ai's surgery to be completed. I'll send her away I'll send her away Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Ah Fang brought Ah Fang brought Go ahead. Go ahead. That child that child How did you get into Xiaobao's room? How did you get into Xiaobao's room? I I I don't know either. I don't know either. That day I that day I Busy cleaning Busy cleaning I didn't notice. I didn't notice. I'm on the bottle at the sceneI'm on the bottle at the scene and on the door handle and on the door handle Fingerprints were found. Fingerprints were found. Sent for appraisal Sent for appraisal I hate it most when people lie to me I hate it most when people lie to me If I find out, if I find out She must pay the price. She must pay the price. Miss Song Miss Song Please save me, please save me Waste Waste I can't even do this properly. I can't even do this properly. You want me to wipe your ass You want me to wipe your ass I didn't expect Mr. Luo. I didn't expect Mr. Luo. I will check this matter. I will check this matter. If Mr. Luo really finds out Then we are all finished. Then we are all finished. What we what we You did everything. You did everything. It has nothing to do with me. It has nothing to do with me. Miss Song Miss Song How can you say that? How can you say that? This idea is all yours. This idea is all yours. If you don't help me, if you don't help me I'll go find Mr. Luo nowI'll go find Mr. Luo now Speak clearly Why are you so impatient? Why are you so impatient? The most urgent thing now The most urgent thing now is looking for something else is looking for something else Cover up the limelight of this matter Cover up the limelight of this matter A big thing just happened at home. A big thing just happened at home. Where can I find something else to cover it up? If at this time if at this time Someone died. Someone died. As long as Qiao Xin thinks It's Linchuan, it's Linchuan Want to kill her daughter Want to kill her daughter What happened next What happened next Everything will be easy. Everything will be easy. Don't blame me for being cruel Don't blame me for being cruel Blame it on me Blame it on your mom. Blame it on your mom. I have offended too many people. I have offended too many people. Nurse Nurse Thank you for your hard work. Thank you for your hard work. Mommy Mommy I'm in pain. I'm in pain. Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Doctor Doctor Someone come quickly, someone come quickly Doctor Doctor Fortunately, it was discovered in time. Fortunately, it was discovered in time. If I lose again, I will lose again. I'm afraid I'm really dead. I'm afraid I'm really dead. Doctor Doctor What the hell is going on? What the hell is going on? Somebody is with us Somebody is with us In the prepared medicine, in the prepared medicine Injection of potassium cyanide Injection of potassium cyanide That's right. This is in your daughter's hand. This is in your daughter's hand. Found a cufflink Found a cufflink Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan It's you. It's you. How is Xiao Ai? How is Xiao Ai? Someone is in her medicine Someone is in her medicine Injection of potassium cyanide Injection of potassium cyanide Almost didn't make it back. Almost didn't make it back. Who is so vicious? Who is so vicious? How could they attack a child? How could they attack a child? It's Luo Linchuan It's Luo Linchuan I'll go find him I'll go find him Ming Hao Ming Hao Don't go, don't go Take us away, take us away I don't want to be here anymore I don't want to be here anymore Are you serious? Are you serious? Originally I wanted Luo Linchuan to donate bones Originally I wanted Luo Linchuan to donate bones Treat Xiao Ai's illness Treat Xiao Ai's illness Now I am afraid that the disease cannot be curedNow I am afraid that the disease cannot be cured My life is about to end. My life is about to end. well I'll take you away I'll take you away Mr. Luo Mr. Luo How's that kid? How's that kid? I heard someone went to the hospital. I heard someone went to the hospital. She was given a prescription that was poisoned. She was given a prescription that was poisoned. Dagang was rescued and brought back to life. Dagang was rescued and brought back to life. What what Have you checked? Have you checked? Adjusted the monitoring. Adjusted the monitoring. Someone deliberately disguised as a nurse Someone deliberately disguised as a nurse Entered the ward Entered the ward It must have been premeditated. It must have been premeditated. Nana Where is Qiao Xin? Where is Qiao Xin? How is she? How is she? She Speak quickly I don't want to ask a second time. I don't want to ask a second time. They are gone. They are gone. What does it mean? What does it mean? What do you mean by missing? What do you mean by missing? When they went downstairs for a walk When they went downstairs for a walk Hijacked by a black vanHijacked by a black van Our people didn't keep up. Our people didn't keep up. Search and search Dig three feet into the ground I have to find her for me. I have to find her for me. Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Someone sent a letter to your mailbox today. Someone sent a letter to your mailbox today. Posted a photo Posted a photo Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Your life, your life Don't even think about running away from me Don't even think about running away from me The dishes are ready! The dishes are ready! Let's eat! Let's eat! Dad Xiao Dad Xiao It's amazing. It's amazing. I will find you when I grow up I will find you when I grow up A husband like Xiao Dad A husband like Xiao Dad You little brat You little brat Do you know what a husband is? Do you know what a husband is? Eat quickly, eat quickly Thank you Minghao Thank you Minghao Not only took us in, mother and daughter, not only took us in, mother and daughter Still taking care of us, still taking care of us Don't keep thanking me. Don't keep thanking me. Thank you. Thank you. Xiao Ai calls me Daddy Xiao Xiao Ai calls me Daddy Xiao I can't let you down by eating. I can't let you down by eating. Is it Xiao Ai? Is it Xiao Ai? Xinxin, what's wrong with you? Xinxin, what's wrong with you? Dad Xiao Dad Xiao Is mom sick? Is mom sick? I watch these days. I watch these days. Mom vomits whenever she eats Mom vomits whenever she eats Don't worry, Xiao Ai Don't worry, Xiao Ai Where is Xiao's father? Where is Xiao's father? I will take my mother with me. I will take my mother with me. Is it okay to go to the hospital? Is it okay to go to the hospital? Let's go eat. Let's go eat. Ming Hao Ming Hao I'm pregnant I'm pregnant Congratulations, you are pregnant. Congratulations, you are pregnant. I don't want this child. I don't want this child. Xinxinxinxin Don't be impulsive. Don't be impulsive. You and your child's father You and your child's father Let's discuss it again. Let's discuss it again. Your uterine lining is thin Your uterine lining is thin This child, this child No more. No more. It will be difficult to have another child in the future. It will be difficult to have another child in the future. Xinxinxinxin No matter whether you live or not, no matter whether you live or not I will respect your choice. I will respect your choice. If you give birth to If you give birth to I'll take care of you I'll take care of you I just want you to know I just want you to know No matter when No matter when I'm behind you I'm behind you When I think of it, when I think of it pregnant with his child pregnant with his child I'm so sick. I'm so sick. This child, this child I absolutely won't want it. I absolutely won't want it. Doctor Doctor When can I schedule an appointment for surgery? When can I schedule an appointment for surgery? First people, please do a check first. First people, please do a check first. You are in the early stages of pregnancy You are in the early stages of pregnancy You can use medicine to flow. You can use medicine to flow. Is this the baby's heartbeat? Is this the baby's heartbeat? Yes, yes. Listen to his heartbeat Listen to his heartbeat How powerful! How powerful! I'll prescribe you some medicine. I'll prescribe you some medicine. Doctor Doctor Don't bother. Don't bother. This child, this child I decided to give birth to the baby. I decided to give birth to the baby. Is the news accurate? Is the news accurate? Qiao Xin is really in this hospital Qiao Xin is really in this hospital Yes Yes I heard that she is now undergoing an examination in the obstetrics department. Which department Which department obstetrics I said why are you in such a hurry to leave? I said why are you in such a hurry to leave? I said why are you in such a hurry to leave? It turns out that she is pregnant again! It turns out that she is pregnant again! Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan Keep your mouth clean. Keep your mouth clean. Do you know this? Do you know this? Do you know this? So what? So what? I owe you money I owe you money I've asked Minghao to forward it to you. I've asked Minghao to forward it to you. We no longer owe each other anything. We no longer owe each other anything. No one owes anyone anything Qiao Xin Qiao Xin You owe me You owe me You can never repay it in this lifetime. You can never repay it in this lifetime. Follow me, follow me Xiao's father and mother Xiao's father and mother Save me, save me You beast you beast You let my daughter go You let my daughter go Either or Come with me today Come with me today I'll sell her. I'll sell her. Let you live forever Never find Never find I also learned to elope. I also learned to elope. I tell you I tell you Without my permission Without my permission You can't go anywhere You can't go anywhere Where's my daughter? Where's my daughter? Where is that child? Where is that child? What does it have to do with me? What does it have to do with me? You lied to me You lied to me Luo Linchuan you are shameless Luo Linchuan you are shameless I'm shameless I'm shameless You're right under my nose You're right under my nose Having another man's child Having another man's child Still say still say This child belongs to Mr. Wang. This child belongs to Mr. Wang. You bastard you bastard I have asked the doctor. I have asked the doctor. No surgery is needed at this stage No surgery is needed at this stage Just take the medicine, just take the medicine You told me to abort the baby You told me to abort the baby Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan Are you still human? Are you still human? I have tolerated you I have tolerated you A child was born. A child was born. I can't tolerate a second one. I can't tolerate a second one. Big bad guy Big bad guy I bully my mother. I bully my mother. Big bad guy Big bad guy Don't bully my mother. Don't bully my mother. I'm sorry Mr. Luo. I'm sorry Mr. Luo. I didn't watch it. I didn't watch it. I'll give you three days. I'll give you three days. Either you take medicine or you take medicine I performed surgery on her. I performed surgery on her. Either or I force you to take medicine I force you to take medicine You decide. You decide. Mommy Mommy Xiao Ai will grow up quickly Protect yours Protect yours Good boy Qiao Xin's single baby in the belly Qiao Xin's single baby in the belly It must be from Linchuan It must be from Linchuan What should I do? What should I do? Mr. Luo is still investigating Mr. Luo is still investigating The thing before that thing before that No, no, no What I am worried about now is The baby in her belly The baby in her belly If she really gave birth to it, if she really gave birth to it Linchuan and I Linchuan and I It's completely over. It's completely over. What should we do? What should we do? We don't need to do anything this time. We don't need to do anything this time. Hello Auntie Do you have time tomorrow? Do you have time tomorrow? Can you come to my house? Can you come to my house? Recently Recently Aren't you busy with the preparations? Aren't you busy with the preparations? How do you still have time to look for me? How do you still have time to look for me? Auntie This marriage, this marriage I may not be able to get married. I may not be able to get married. What happened? What happened? What happened? What happened? That Qiao Xin That Qiao Xin She didn't know to give it to Brother Linchuan. She didn't know to give it to Brother Linchuan. What kind of drug was injected? What kind of drug was injected? Now Now Not only did she and the child Bring it back to live. Bring it back to live. Even even Come on, tell me. Come on, tell me. This is about our Luo family. This is about our Luo family. Important, important I heard Qiao Xin is pregnant again Qiao Xin is pregnant again Another Man's Child Another Man's Child Brother Linchuan doesn't care either. Brother Linchuan doesn't care either. You say you say How can I get married? How can I get married? Nonsense It's such a shame. It's such a shame. Our Luo family's face Our Luo family's face Yoona Yoona Don't worry, don't worry Auntie will help you vent your anger. Auntie will help you vent your anger. Thank you, Auntie. Thank you, Auntie. What time is it? What time is it? Still calling me auntie? Still calling me auntie? Thank you, mom. Thank you, mom. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin This time You're dead! You're dead! Mom, look at it, Mom, look at it Is it cute? Is it cute? You are cuter You are cuter You woman You woman Still staying at my Luo's house and won't leave Still staying at my Luo's house and won't leave Mother Going Around It's you again, old witch. It's you again, old witch. Let go of my mom, let go of my mom Xiao Ai, don't come over here. Xiao Ai, don't come over here. Mommy Mommy Qiao Xin Qiao Xin It's so late and you're not going home yet It's so late and you're not going home yet I see Xiaobao sleeping I see Xiaobao sleeping I made some chicken soup for you. I made some chicken soup for you. Bring it here, bring it here I told you everything. I told you everything. Take stomach medicine on time. Take stomach medicine on time. Otherwise, you will develop a disease. Otherwise, you will develop a disease. Come eat it now! Come eat it now! What should I do? What should I do? I still love you very much I still love you very much Mr. Luo Mr. Luo The old lady is coming. The old lady is coming. Oh no! Oh no! Mother Don't call me mom. Don't call me mom. Talk You and your children You and your children Why are you still here? Why are you still here? Our Luo family won't leave Our Luo family won't leave Auntie I also want to ask your son I also want to ask your son Why don't you want to? Why don't you want to? Let us go, mother and daughter. Let us go, mother and daughter. You don't look at it either. What are you? What are you? It must be you who led him here. It must be you who led him here. You said it too. You said it too. I am not a thing How do I seduce him? How do I seduce him? Or your son? Or your son? Is there anything special to avoid? Is there anything special to avoid? I like this. I like this. It's not a thing. It's not a thing. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin How do you talk to your aunt? How do you talk to your aunt? Talking Talking you you Kneel here today. Kneel here today. Without my permission Without my permission You are not allowed to get up You are not allowed to get up Children Children You gotta hold on, you gotta hold on Qiao Xin Qiao Xin It's all over. It's all over. How is it possible? How is it possible? Mom, you wake up Mom, you wake up Why am I here? Why am I here? You fainted You fainted It was the bad guy who brought you in. It was the bad guy who brought you in. Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan Qiao Xin Qiao Xin I'm not dreaming. I'm not dreaming. Nana Where is that grandma just now? Where is that grandma just now? The old witch and the bad guy The old witch and the bad guy A big quarrel. A big quarrel. I beat up the bad guy. I beat up the bad guy. What's going on? What's going on? That woman That woman I am still pregnant with Another Man's Child Another Man's Child If this gets out, if this gets out Outside Outside How to say our Luo family How to say our Luo family Mother That child that child I'll take care of it I'll take care of it But but I can't follow me now I can't follow me now Yoona got married Yoona got married Mother That child that child I'll take care of it I'll take care of it But but I can't follow me now I can't follow me now Yoona got married Yoona got married Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan Stop joking, stop joking. We are getting married soon We are getting married soon Yoona Yoona I'm not kidding you I'm not kidding you I still have Qiao Xin in my heart I still have Qiao Xin in my heart If I married you now If I married you now It is irresponsible to you. It is irresponsible to you. Bastard Bastard If you keep talking nonsense, if you keep talking nonsense I I I won't break your legs I won't break your legs Mother I've figured it out. I've figured it out. I will be with Qiao Xin I will be with Qiao Xin Want a child of their own Want a child of their own I love her I love her Breech I have to beat you today I have to beat you today Until you wake up Until you wake up Do you know you are wrong? Do you know you are wrong? Auntie Don't hit me anymore. Don't hit me anymore. I'm not wrong. I'm not wrong. I love her I love her Auntie Don't hit him anymore. Don't hit him anymore. Since Brother Linchuan Since Brother Linchuan I already have someone I like. I already have someone I like. I won't marry him again I won't marry him again Yoona Yoona You are so stupid. You are so stupid. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan Yoona Yoona Sorry, sorry. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin This time I won't let you turn over again I won't let you turn over again Die die die Did you bring the stuff? Did you bring the stuff? Just got it from Mr. Luo's room Just got it from Mr. Luo's room But Miss Song But Miss Song What are you using this for? What are you using this for? What are you doing? I want Qiao Xin I want Qiao Xin Review it Review it Back to the time when I was in the mental hospital Back to the time when I was in the mental hospital But but She's fine now. She's fine now. We shouldn't do it again. We shouldn't do it again. I want her to live this life I want her to live this life The biggest dream haunts her The biggest dream haunts her Make her a make her a A true psychopath A true psychopath Mommy Mommy Xiaobao Xiaobao Is that you, Xiaobao? Is that you, Xiaobao? What happened to mom? What happened to mom? Mom may be too tired recently. Mom may be too tired recently. Go to sleep. Go to sleep. Wake up! LinchuanLinchuan I dreamed of Xiaobao. I dreamed of Xiaobao. Okay, okay. Come on, come on Take the medicine. Take the medicine. Just give up on this idea. Just give up on this idea. I can't take medicine. I can't take medicine. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Don't be shameless when I give you face. Don't be shameless when I give you face. You know I'm for you You know I'm for you How much have you paid? How much have you paid? I want to keep the baby. I want to keep the baby. Mommy Mommy We will also in the future. We will also in the future Have your own children Have your own children Mommy Mommy But this in your stomach No, no, no Mommy Mommy Stop yelling. Stop yelling. Mommy Mommy Stop yelling. Stop yelling. I beg you to stop shouting I beg you to stop shouting Qiao Xin Qiao Xin What are you playing at? What are you playing at? Please stop screaming. Please stop screaming. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan My sister is not ill, is she? My sister is not ill, is she? No, no, no Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan My sister's current status My sister's current status Not very stable Not very stable Don't provoke her anymore. Don't provoke her anymore. Let me talk to herLet me talk to her Yoona Yoona Thank you for your hard work. Thank you for your hard work. Are you awake? Are you awake? Feeling of insanity Feeling of insanity How is it? How is it? It's you who did it. You harmed me and Lin'er You harmed me and Lin'er Break off the engagement I just want to torture you I just want to torture you I want you I want you Life is better than death. Life is better than death. Even if you torture me again, even if you torture me again Linchuan won't like you either. Linchuan won't like you either. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin How can I kill your son? How can I kill your son? I can kill you any way I want. It's you who did it. Your son's neck Your son's neck It's only this thick. It's only this thick. I squeeze it gently, with a little strength. I squeeze it gently, with a little strength. He died. He died. Before dying, I was still crying. Before dying, I was still crying. Mommy Mommy What a pity! He doesn't know. He doesn't know. My mother has long been my mother has long been Drugged After waking up After waking up It's like killing yourself. It's like killing yourself. My son's hand is in my son's area. My son's hand Cai Chong'er I'm going to kill you Cai Chong'er I'm going to kill you You've caused our marriage to be estranged You've caused our marriage to be estranged Mother and child separation Mother and child separation I want to tell Luo Linchuan I want to tell Luo Linchuan I can tell you this today I can tell you this today I can tell you this today I didn't intend to let you There is room for a turnaround There is room for a turnaround Help! Help! Yoona Yoona How are you? How are you? Qiao Xin Qiao Xin What are you doing? What are you doing? No, no It's not like this. It's not like this. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan Don't blame your sister. Don't blame your sister. She's just she's just I can't control myself I can't control myself LinchuanLinchuan It was she who killed Xiaobao It was she who killed Xiaobao She knocked me out. She knocked me out. Killed Xiaobao Killed Xiaobao Shut up, shut up I'm too kind to you I'm too kind to you You don't deserve it at all. You don't deserve it at all. Chen LianChen Lian Contact the Psychiatric DirectorContact the Psychiatric Director Lock Qiao Xin up for me Lock Qiao Xin up for me Not really. Not really. It was really her who killed Xiaobao. It was really her who killed Xiaobao. Why don't you believe me Why don't you believe me Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan I'm in pain. I'm in pain. Yoona Yoona Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Miss Qiao she Miss Qiao she Lock her in. Lock her in. Never let her out Never let her out Your son's neck Your son's neck It's only this thick. It's only this thick. I squeeze it gently, with a little strength. I squeeze it gently, with a little strength. He died. He died. Before dying, I was still crying. Before dying, I was still crying. Mommy Mommy What a pity! He doesn't know. He doesn't know. His mother His mother I've already put Miz in my head. I've already put Miz in my head. After waking up After waking up It's like killing yourself. It's like killing yourself. My son's hand is in my son's area. Yes, mom, no, yes, mom, no Mom didn't Protect you Sorry, sorry. You are Mr. Luo You are Mr. Luo The woman sent here, the woman sent here Mr. Luo has explained it. Mr. Luo has explained it. Let me take good care of you Let me take good care of you I beg you, I beg you I beg you Please pass it on. Please pass it on. Let him pick me up Let him pick me up I have something to say to him. I have something to say to him. It's all here. It's all here. I still want to fly up to the tree and become a phoenix I still want to fly up to the tree and become a phoenix Our Miss Yoona's position Our Miss Yoona's position So so You are not Luo Lin'er You are not Luo Lin'er Sent Sent It's Song Chong'er, right? It's Song Chong'er, right? Don't talk nonsense to her. Don't talk nonsense to her. Play her first Play her first Let Miss Yoona vent her anger Let Miss Yoona vent her anger Let you make mistakes Let you make mistakes Make you shameless Make you shameless Let's see if you dare to do it again. Xiaobao Xiaobao Mommy really can't hold on any longer Mommy really can't hold on any longer Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan My injury is not serious My injury is not serious Yes, yes I am very worried about my sister's condition. I am very worried about my sister's condition. That woman That woman I knew it earlier. She should be the one from the beginning. Detained in a mental hospital Detained in a mental hospital I won't let you get hurt. I won't let you get hurt. What what Where is she now Where is she now I'll be right here. I'll be right here. Yoona Yoona I have something to do now. I have something to do now. I have to go out first. I have to go out first. You should take a good rest first. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin This time, even the gods can't save you. This time, even the gods can't save you. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Wake up, wake up You are not allowed to die, do you hear me? You are not allowed to die, do you hear me? LinchuanLinchuan I miss Xiaobao. I miss Xiaobao. I want to see him I want to see him I don't allow it I don't allow it Have you forgotten your daughter? Have you forgotten your daughter? If you dare to die, if you dare to die I'm going back now to kill her I'm going back now to kill her Qiao Xin Qiao Xin Family members should not look at the emergency first. Family members should not look at the emergency first. Wait outside for a while Wait outside for a while How could this happen? How could this happen? Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Found it. Found it. The one who hurt Miss Qiao The one who hurt Miss Qiao They are two nurses from the hospital. They are two nurses from the hospital. Have you recruited? Have you recruited? Who ordered it? Who ordered it? Don't say anything. Don't say anything. But I checked it out. But I checked it out. Their two private accounts Their two private accounts Received it three days ago Received it three days ago A huge transfer A huge transfer Yes Yes It's Miss Song's account. It's Miss Song's account. Mr. Luo Mr. Luo I didn't know she was yours I didn't know she was yours I don't know. I don't know. Or tell the people who do your work or tell the people who do your work Didn't make it clear. Mr. Luo Luo, Mr. Luo Luo We don't know what you're talking about ... Three days ago Three days ago Your Account Your Account There is a huge transfer There is a huge transfer Is it a coincidence? Is it a coincidence? Drag it out, drag it out Since she doesn't want to say it Since she doesn't want to say it her tongue her tongue There is no need to stay. There is no need to stay. Mr. Luo, I was wrong. Mr. Luo, I was wrong. Please forgive me, please forgive me Mr. Luo Mr. Luo I say I say I say I say It's Miss Song Yoon-ah. It's Miss Song Yoon-ah. She gave us a lot of money She gave us a lot of money Let's take good care of Yang Xin Let's take good care of Yang Xin She said she robbed it. The status of the president's wife The status of the president's wife Let's get here Let's get here Kill her, kill her Impossible Impossible Yoona is so kind Yoona is so kind She can't possibly do this. She can't possibly do this. It's true. It's true. The reception room of Yayuan Hospital is monitored by CCTV. The reception room of Yayuan Hospital is monitored by CCTV. If you don't believe it, You can go and see for yourself. You can go and see for yourself. Yoona Yoona It's you who has changed. It's you who has changed. or I never or I never Know the Real You Know the Real You Work permit firstWork permit first I beat up your two nurses I beat up your two nurses It's all been dealt with. It's all been dealt with. They were affected by themselves Deserved punishment Deserved punishment I know this clearly. I know this clearly. It was Chong'er who did it. It was Chong'er who did it. But I don't dare But I don't dare Go question her. Go question her. Wo Shen Zhi You Xie Hai Pa Wo Shen Zhi You Xie Hai Pa Know the truth Know the truth I'm afraid I'm afraid Once the truth Once the truth Just as I expected Just as I expected I will be forever I will be forever Lose you lose you You should have let go a long time ago You should have let go a long time ago Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan The one you owe most in your life The one you owe most in your life It's Qiao Xin. It's Qiao Xin. What qualifications do you have to say about me? If it wasn't for her, if it wasn't for her To elope with you To elope with you Killed my own son Killed my own son How things turn out how things turn out Today, this is how it is today, this is how it is Elopement Do you have a brain? Do you have a brain? If she is determined If you elope with me, if you elope with me What's going on with you? What's going on with you? Six years. Six years. She should have been with me a long time ago. It's right to get married and have children It's right to get married and have children Is there any difference? Is there any difference? The baby in her belly The baby in her belly Isn't it yours? Isn't it yours? Has your brain been eaten by a dog? Has your brain been eaten by a dog? Think about that child. Think about that child. Whose is it? Whose is it? This child is This child is Yes Yes It's mine, it's mine Not only what's in her belly, not only what's in her belly Even Xiao Ai is yours Even Xiao Ai is yours Daughter Daughter Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan Since you are right to you One child attacked, one child attacked You will be punished. You will be punished. No, no, no This is impossible. This is impossible. Look at you, look at you Sleeping look Sleeping look Just like your mother Just like your mother Dad, Dad Impossible Impossible It's been six years. It's been six years. How could you? How could you? It's my daughter. It's my daughter. Xiao MinghaoXiao Minghao You must be talking nonsense. You must be talking nonsense. You and your daughter, you and your daughter Looks so alike Looks so alike Really? Really? Yes, yes. They say daughters take after their fathers. They say daughters take after their fathers. Look, look Your eyebrows, your eyebrows It's just a mold. It's just a mold. Carved out Carved out Shut up. Shut up. This doll This doll You don't deserve it You don't deserve it You little child You little child I'm going to get rid of you, this trouble, today. I'm going to get rid of you, this trouble, today. Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan What on earth are you doing to eat? What on earth are you doing to eat? She She's just a child She's just a child Big bad guy Big bad guy Do you want to eat something when you wake up? Do you want to eat something when you wake up? I'll buy it for you I'll buy it for you I want my mommy I want my mommy Your mother, your mother She's on a business trip She's on a business trip These few days I'll take care of you I'll take care of you I want my mommy I want my mommy you you Okay, okay, okay, okay You say, you say Besides wanting mom, Besides wanting mom What else do you want? What else do you want? This won't work. This won't work. No, no, no Take a plane Take a plane Take a plane Take a plane Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Why is it so late? Why is it so late? Mr. Luo, I am a human being Mr. Luo, I am a human being Not a robot Not a robot Have some snacks first. I'll play with you again later. Please scan the QR code to use the Zhongguan shared accompanying bed. I'll play with you again later. Please scan the QR code to use the Zhongguan shared accompanying bed. Take it for paternity test Take it for paternity test Urgent, wait there. Urgent, wait there. Tell me the result immediately. Tell me the result immediately. Yes Yes Whether I am your father or not Whether I am your father or not I will make it up to you. I will make it up to you. Mr. Luo Mr. Luo You have to be mentally prepared. You have to be mentally prepared. Stop talking nonsense and bring it quickly. Stop talking nonsense and bring it quickly. Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Chen LianChen Lian Do you also feel that? Do you also feel that I am worse than an animal. I am worse than an animal. She actually did it to her own daughter. She actually did it to her own daughter. So this happened So this happened But you were also deceived. But you were also deceived. So it's understandable So it's understandable The most urgent matter The most urgent matter We should find it quickly. We should find it quickly. Behind the scenes hand Behind the scenes hand I asked you to check the things I asked you to check How's my check going? How's my check going? We checked Miss Joe We checked Miss Joe Before and after entering the hospital that year Before and after entering the hospital that year All VideosAll Videos I found another person. I found another person. who A Fang A Fang Afang can't have Afang can't have Such courage X Such courage X Behind Her Behind Her Someone is controlling it Someone is controlling it Don't worry, Mr. Luo. Don't worry, Mr. Luo. I've arranged it. I've arranged it. A play at a time When the time comes It will lure the snake out of its hole It will lure the snake out of its hole Xiao Ai Xiao Ai Daddy is sorry for you Daddy is sorry for you Don't worry, don't worry Daddy will definitely find the real area Daddy will definitely find the real area Give you and your mother a clean slate Give you and your mother a clean slate Linchuan Brother Where have you been recently? Don't come to see me. Don't come to see me. Recently, recently I found several psychiatrists. I found several psychiatrists. Meeting So I didn't have time to take care of it. So I didn't have time to take care of it. It is the business of the Group. It is the business of the Group. Is there any expansion? Is there any expansion? No, no The doctor said Qiao Xin's condition The doctor said Qiao Xin's condition Getting better Getting better There is a possibility of waking up. There is a possibility of waking up. I want to see a doctor I want to see a doctor Is there any effect on her illness? What other ways? What other ways? After all I think she has something to say to me I think she has something to say to me Very hot. Very hot. How is Yoona? How is Yoona? It's not hot, is it? It's not hot, is it? It's okay, Brother Linchuan. It's okay, Brother Linchuan. My injury is not healed yet My injury is not healed yet Not holding it steady. Not holding it steady. It's okay. It's okay. Wait a minute, I'll let Afang wait a minute, I'll let Afang Send some more. Send some more. You take a good rest. You take a good rest. Don't think too much. Don't think too much. Qiao Xin Qiao Xin How come you are so lucky? How come you are so lucky? Miss Song Miss Song Are we exposed? Are we exposed? I went out recently I went out recently Always feel behind Always feel behind Someone's been staring at me Someone's been staring at me Useless things Useless things If it's exposed, if it's exposed Linchuan will give me Linchuan will give me Chicken soup for free? Chicken soup for free? You're going to kill Qiao Xin tonight You're going to kill Qiao Xin tonight After the event After the event I'll send you abroad I'll send you abroad Don't come back from now on. Don't come back from now on. Miss Qiao Miss Qiao I don't want to kill you either. I don't want to kill you either. But I really have no choice But I really have no choice I heard about this medicine. I heard about this medicine. Hit it in and you'll die slowly. Hit it in and you'll die slowly. It won't hurt. It won't hurt. I hope you don't hate me I hope you don't hate me Me too Me too Taking money from others to help them get rid of disasters Taking money from others to help them get rid of disasters Whose money is taken? Whose money is taken? Eliminate whose disaster it is Eliminate whose disaster it is Last time, Xiao Ai was poisoned. Last time, Xiao Ai was poisoned. Could it be that he is possessed by a ghost? Could it be that he is possessed by a ghost? No, no, no It's not me. It's not me. Before I come to you Before I come to you Song Yoon-ah Song Yoon-ah Already told me everything Already told me everything She said she saw it with her own eyes. You are you Poisoned Xiao Ai's medicine Poisoned Xiao Ai's medicine Still want to harm Qiao Xin Still want to harm Qiao Xin How could she say that? How could she say that? That's right. You, you, It's in my hands now It's in my hands now This is all thanks to Yoona. This is all thanks to Yoona. Song Yoon-ah, this liar Song Yoon-ah, this liar She said she wouldn't betray me She said she wouldn't betray me He also said to give me some money He also said to give me some money Let me go abroad Let me go abroad Do you think I will believe you do you think I will believe What you said? What you said? Mr. Luo Mr. Luo Please let my brother go Please let my brother go I tell you what I know Tell you everything Six years ago I had evidence Six years ago I had evidence It was Song Yoon-ah who killed Xiao Bao It was Song Yoon-ah who killed Xiao Bao What do you say? What do you say? Six years ago I had evidence Six years ago I had evidence It was Song Yoon-ah who killed Xiao Bao It was Song Yoon-ah who killed Xiao Bao What do you say? What do you say? I have been abroad for several years. You take advantage of the opportunity and you take advantage of the opportunity Marry Linchuan Marry Linchuan took away what originally belonged to My happiness My happiness Today Today I'm gonna let you I'm gonna let you Give it all back to me. Give it all back to me. Help! Help! Chen LianChen Lian Go Go Put that woman put that woman Bring it to me. Bring it to me. Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan So late so late Why are you looking for me here? Why are you looking for me here? Bad woman bad woman Actually lied to me for so many years Actually lied to me for so many years Brother Linchuan Brother Linchuan What did I lie to you about? What did I lie to you about? Is it this bad girl? Is it this bad girl? What did she tell you? What did she tell you? I told you everything I know I told you everything I know I tell you everything I know! Including the First People's Hospital six years ago Including the First People's Hospital six years ago How did you kill the People's Hospital? How did you kill the People's Hospital? The young master's young master How dare you betray me How dare you betray me You were the one who betrayed me first You were the one who betrayed me first If it weren't for you, if it weren't for you How could my brother be arrested How could my brother be arrested You cheated us You cheated us You did it so cleanly back then You did it so cleanly back then Don't let your dogs bite each other. Don't let your dogs bite each other. How can we know the truth? How can we know the truth? Song Yoon-ah Song Yoon-ah I believe in you so much I believe in you so much Wo Shen Zhi Jue De Ni Wo Shen Zhi Jue De Ni The simplest thing in the world The simplest thing in the world The kindest person The kindest person But I didn't expect it But I didn't expect it You actually gave birth to you actually gave birth to Parascorpion heart Parascorpion heart Killed my own son Killed my own son Put the blame on my wife Put the blame on my wife My family was destroyed. My family was destroyed. What is your intention? What is your intention? Because I love you, because I love you I was only abroad for two years. I was only abroad for two years. Why did you come back? Why did you come back? The one who married you is her It really should have been The one who marries you is me. The one who marries you is me. I just want her thingsI just want her things All destroyed All destroyed You crazy woman You crazy woman Actually for these selfish desires Actually for these selfish desires No matter how much a life is lost, no matter how much a life is lost LinchuanLinchuan Qiao Xin now Qiao Xin now Just a vegetable, just a vegetable She can't give you anything She can't give you anything We're getting married We're getting married I will give birth to a child for you, please? I will give birth to a child for you, please? Why do you think I can? Why do you think I can? Marry a woman like you Marry a woman like you Chen LianChen Lian Bring it here. Bring it here. What is this? What is this? This is what I spent a lot of money on. This is what I spent a lot of money on. Buy it and let people buy it Mental disorder medicine Mental disorder medicine Don't you like using this trick? Don't you like using this trick? Then you should feel it well. Then you should feel it well. No no LinchuanLinchuan The rest of your life The rest of your life Spent it in a mental hospital Spent it in a mental hospital Your hands and feet are not clean. Your hands and feet are not clean. I like being a dog for others so much. I like being a dog for others so much. Then brake your limbs. Then brake your limbs. Throw it to the back hill Throw it to the back hill If you survive if you survive That is the award calendar that Shanghai University gave you. That is the award calendar that Shanghai University gave you. No Mr. Luo, No Mr. Luo I was wrong. I was wrong. Don't do this to me Don't do this to me She's too loud. She's too loud. I'm afraid of disturbing Miss Qiao's rest I'm afraid of disturbing Miss Qiao's rest Xiao Ai's surgery is over Xiao Ai's surgery is over The doctor said the doctor said All is well. All is well. The probability of recurrence is very high. Wait until she fully recovers Wait until she fully recovers I took her to kindergarten. I took her to kindergarten. You have to wake up quickly. You have to wake up quickly. Now she is still here every dayNow she is still here every day The bad guy called me the bad guy. The bad guy called me the bad guy. You have to be good. You have to be good. Educate her, educate her, educate her. Eat when the yarrow is full of fragrance. Eat when the yarrow is full of fragrance. Still praising her for being beautiful. Still praising her for being beautiful. 70% like mom 70% like mom Three points like me Three points like me I see her I see her It's like seeing you in the past It's like seeing you in the past Lively and lively Cheerful and cheerful Wife, wife Wait until Xiaobao is older Wait until Xiaobao is older We want a daughter We want a daughter Is it good? Is it good? How what Don't like our son Don't like our son This kid won't let me hug him now. This kid won't let me hug him now. Like a small vest with a leaky air Like a small vest with a leaky air I am now, I am now I need a little cotton to warm me up. I need a little cotton to warm me up. You are not afraid. You are not afraid. Reborn one by one It's also a small vest that leaks air. It's also a small vest that leaks air. Well, I have a hunch. Well, I have a hunch. The next one will definitely be a girl The next one will definitely be a girl And and Looks very, very much like you Looks very, very much like you Will inherit all your advantages Will inherit all your advantages Yeah I can't wait. I can't wait. Oh my god! Give me a daughter, give me a daughter. Wake up, please. Wake up, please. I beg you, I beg you Wake up, please. Wake up, please. I know I know It's all my fault It's all my fault It's ok if you hate me, but I will still laugh at you It's ok if you hate me, but I will still laugh at you I beg you, I beg you I beg you to wake up I beg you to wake up I beg you, I beg you I beg you to wake up I beg you to wake up I beg you, I beg you I beg you to wake up I beg you to wake up Wake up, please. Wake up, please. Please, please, please It's all my fault. It's all my fault. Xinxinxinxin I brought it to you. I brought it to you. My favorite little veggies My favorite little veggies It smells so fresh. It smells so fresh. I heard about that Song Chong'er. I heard about that Song Chong'er. Imprisoned in a mental hospital Imprisoned in a mental hospital Crazy all day long Crazy all day long It seems like he has really become a mental patient. It seems like he has really become a mental patient. And more The servant who harmed Xiao Ai before The limbs were cut off. The limbs were cut off. Thrown onto the barren hills behind Thrown onto the barren hills behind Every night every night You can hear her screams. You can hear her screams. this this Luo Linchuan is so cruel Luo Linchuan is so cruel Hey Don't mention those. Don't mention those. Let's talk about Luo Linchuan. Let's talk about Luo Linchuan. He is recently. He is recently. Like a demon, like a demon He does it every day. He does it every day. Running back and forth between home and hospital As soon as he has time, Just go and take care of Xiao Ai Just go and take care of Xiao Ai Take Xiao Ai with you. Take Xiao Ai with you. Eat a variety of delicious food Eat a variety of delicious food I bought her a beautiful dress. I bought her a beautiful dress. If you don't wake up, if you don't wake up I'm afraid you'll see Xiao Ai She becomes She becomes A fat girl. A fat girl. Hey, I have to complain to you. Hey, I have to complain to you. You have to take good care of yourself. You have to take good care of yourself. This Luo Linchuan This Luo Linchuan The last time I saw Xiao Ai The last time I saw Xiao Ai They all have frog teeth. They all have frog teeth. It must be because of it. It must be because of it. He always takes her to eat candy. He always takes her to eat candy. What bad things are you saying about me again? What bad things are you saying about me again? Praise you for doting on Xiao Ai Praise you for doting on Xiao Ai Let her, let her I have frog teeth at such a young age. I have frog teeth at such a young age. What does my daughter want to eat? I must be satisfied, I must be satisfied I must be satisfied Come on, eat first. Come on, eat first. My company is a bit busy these two days. My company is a bit busy these two days. Thank you for your hard work. Thank you for your hard work. Luo LinchuanLuo Linchuan Why don't you want to eat? Why don't you want to eat? Xinxin is waking up Xinxin is waking up The various indicators of the patient's body are shown in the People's Hospital. There is no problem. There is no problem. Congratulations on making it through. Congratulations on making it through. Xinxin, you finally woke up. Xinxin, you finally woke up. You know I've been waiting for this day You know I've been waiting for this day How long have you been waiting? How long have you been waiting? Get out of here! Get out of here! Get out of here! Xinxinxinxin I know I'm wrong I know I'm wrong I'm here to admit my mistakes. I'm here to admit my mistakes. Please forgive me, please forgive me Don't touch me Don't touch me Go away, go away, go away, go away LinchuanLinchuan You go out first. You go out first. Xinxin just woke up Xinxin just woke up She is emotionally unstable. She is emotionally unstable. well It's all my fault. It's all my fault. It's good to wake up. It's good to wake up. Other things Other things Take your time. Take your time. I treated her like that I treated her like that She is sure that she will live forever. Don't want to see me again Don't want to see me again Mommy Mommy The bad uncle said you went to work The bad uncle said you went to work Why you wear why you wear The same clothes as Xiao Ai The same clothes as Xiao Ai When Mom is at Work When Mom is at Work When mom is at work I got hurt accidentally. I got hurt accidentally. So let's go to the hospital. Is Xiao Ai well behaved recently? Is Xiao Ai well behaved recently? Good boy Uncle Huandan also helped me. Uncle Huandan also helped me. The bad uncle still helps me The disease was cured. The disease was cured. He said he would wait until Xiao Ai recovered from her illness. He said he would wait until Xiao Ai recovered from her illness. I took Xiao Ai to kindergarten. Just take Xiao Ai to kindergarten Just take Xiao Ai to kindergarten Inside the kindergarten Inside the kindergarten There are so many little friends. There are so many little friends. Mommy Mommy Bad Uncle Bad Uncle It's actually my dad, right? It's actually my dad, right? Who told you? Who told you? One night One night He tells me stories He tells me stories He fell asleep faster than me. Hey, bad guy, hey, bad guy Tell me a story, tell me a story I ended up falling asleep first! I ended up falling asleep first! Don't call me a bad guy anymore. Don't call me a bad guy anymore. Call me, call me Call daddy, call daddy You are such a clever little ghost You are such a clever little ghost Can I call him dad from now on? Can I call him dad from now on? Big friends and little friends Big friends and little friends It's time to eat. It's time to eat. Dad Xiao Dad Xiao My little cutie, my little cutie It has sunk again recently. It has sunk again recently. It's all the bad uncle's fault It's all the bad uncle's fault Give me cake everyday. Give me cake everyday. I've been fattened by all the food I've been fattened by all the food It's you who's asking for food It's you who's asking for food Who is this? Who is this? This one, this one It is a special project of the hospital. It is a special project of the hospital. Doll escort doll escort I want to see where you are bored in the hospital. I want to see where you are bored in the hospital. I'll apply for you. I'll apply for you. Can you play with me? Can you play with me? Nana Let's eat first. Let's eat first. After dinner, after dinner Take you to the yard to bask in the sun Take you to the yard to bask in the sun Going Around Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I have something to tell you I have something to tell you Take off your hood. Take off your hood. Take off the hood. I know it's you I know it's you I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're sorry for me You're sorry for me You're not only sorry for me You're not only sorry for me You should kneel down You should kneel down Ask me to forgive you I'm sorry, Xinxin. I'm sorry, Xinxin. Yes Yes It's me who can't tell black from white It's me who can't tell black from white I can't tell right from wrong. I can't tell right from wrong. I can't tell right from wrong It's me who won't tolerate anything. It's me who won't tolerate anything. It's my fault, it's my fault And then what? And then what? Kill me or leave me, it's up to you. Kill me or leave me, it's up to you. It's up to you whether you want to kill me or not. As long as you are happy I want you to be happy As long as you have no more complaints about me As long as you have no more complaints about me I'm fine with whatever I do. I'm fine with anything Thank you thank you Thank you for saving Xiao Ai Thank you for saving Xiao Ai Gave her a healthy body I originally planned to from now on I originally planned to from now on See you again. See you again. Cut it off with a clean stroke Cut it off with a clean stroke Until I heard Xiao Ai say Can I call him dad from now on? Can I call him dad from now on? I know I know This period of time You are really sincere to her. You are really sincere to her. Xinxinxinxin Can you forgive me Can you forgive me I used to be a jerk. I used to be a jerk. But now I know I was wrong! But now I know I was wrong! But now I know I was wrong! I want to give you and Xiao Ai I want to give you and Xiao Ai There is also a baby in the belly. There is also a baby in the belly. A happy rest of life A happy rest of life Can I? Can I? No, no, no I'm sorry I didn't keep an eye on her. I'm sorry I didn't keep an eye on her. Mommy Mommy The bad uncle treats you so badly. The bad uncle treats you so badly. Can't forgive him easily Can't forgive him easily I'm sorry, Ai. I'm sorry, Ai. We need to set a probation period for him. We need to set a probation period for him. Probation period Probation period Right Watch for the bad uncle Watch for the bad uncle Did you really correct the error? Only became a good uncle. Only became a good uncle. We can forgive him. We can forgive him. Only Xiao Ai can call him dad. Only Xiao Ai can call him dad. Just do as Xiao Ai says. Just do as Xiao Ai says. The probation period is up to you. The probation period is up to you. I'll spend the rest of my life I'll spend the rest of my life Good for you Good for you You are such a clever little ghost. You are such a clever little ghost. Ha ha ha ha You tease him gently. You tease him gently. Be careful, she may burst into laughter. Be careful, she may burst into laughter. Don't worry. Don't worry. I have imagined this scene countless times. I have imagined this scene countless times. Today it finally came true Today it finally came true What are you doing? What are you doing? You are not feeling well. You are not feeling well. Really, really. It's not like I haven't had a child before. It's not like I haven't had a child before. Mom, the old witch is coming Mom, the old witch is coming No nonsense, no nonsense Mother The truth about what happened before The truth about what happened before Don't you already know it? Don't you already know it? Why do you still come to embarrass Xinxin? Why do you still come to embarrass Xinxin? Why are you still making things difficult for Xinxin? Auntie, this is Auntie, this is Before me Before me I did some work. I did some work. I'm sorry for buying this. I'm sorry for buying this. I hope you don't mind I hope you don't mind Don't call me auntie anymore. Don't call me auntie anymore. Still call me mom, still call me mom well mom You are cute, right? You are cute, right? Grandma bought you a lot of toys. Grandma bought you a lot of toys. and pretty skirts and pretty skirts Go and have a look! Go and have a look! If you want to go, go. If you want to go, go. Go ahead. Xinxinxinxin I will definitely make you happy I will definitely make you happy I believe you I believe you