There exists on our planet a country where the rich, has given birth to exceptional wildlife. This country is France. You are going to discover it What is this large deer looking at, It's a territory a land which, by its diversity, The animals living in these climes However, We men and women share their lives. They struggle to survive, They choose their mates, and deploy all their strength They transform themselves They travel long distances. Some men protect them, Some even form alliances with them. From the highest mountain tops here are the secrets of this country. The outstanding destinies and the men and women It's a fascinating journey Our story begins in the high mountains. At first glance, everything appears calm, Animals and plants It's a struggle Animals here are clothed which enables them They sleep for six months, lowering their cardiac rhythm and reducing their body temperature To take advantage of the sun plants begin to blossom under the snow. When spring arrives, We're in the Pyrenees mountain chain, home to the continent's The brown bear is a force of nature. Just out of his den, this huge, solitary beast to devour everything He hasn't eaten anything for months and has lost a third The bear's vision isn't very keen, but he has an incredible nose, capable of smelling food His sense of smell beyond the summits. To satisfy his appetite, the bear can travel He's the marathon runner of the mountains. In the spring, and the sheep will be perfect. This is not the time but what's that underneath? Earthworms will make a wonderful snack. While not enough it is tasty all the same. Now, off for the sheep again. A protein diet is all well indeed, The vitamins in fruit are good for health. Now for the main dish, no more stopping. What about ants? They're protein. The problem with the ants They crawl under the fur. There must be some termites We've got to deal with the ants first. Just a quick stop to clean up, That's hard to resist. Besides, the soft flesh of the fish What's that? Raspberries. Sorry, it's too tempting. The technique is a bit tiresome, Our gourmet spreads unknowingly participating After living in the French mountains the bear almost disappeared but the good news, he's back again. Mammals represent and if he attacks it's because they're easy to catch and because the bear The old folks tell children they should speak politely to him, as the animal has a gift If you come across one, don't run. Just walk away as naturally as possible. To the east, the Alps rise up, It's a colossus that controls the climate that irrigate the plains. We're in the Ecrins National Park, 150 summits surpassing 3,000 meters This territory is the realm the golden eagle. A number of people to preserving this ecosystem. Among them, one such man has been roaming Christian is impassionate Although, the golden eagle Every year, determining the number of youngsters, and making certain to soar through the skies The first animal breeders settled The eagle has lived here He's very possessive If another eagle tries to enter it, The combat is merciless. He is capable of killing the intruder. During his ascension, Christian crosses a number from the bottom of the valley It's as if he were traveling to the polar circle. Each sector Three kilometers of uneven land reveals Their only common element is the water Following the torrents, Christian has discovered The dipper feeds on small aquatic mollusks As strange as it may seem, it is capable No other bird can move It swims with its wings. To feed its young, it dives down to a depth of two meters He does this several times a day. The mountain altitudes At 1,600 meters, a new world begins. The huge forest of conifers A terrain The eagle prefers to create his nest but finding it is no mean feat since the imposing bird Be sure to keep your distance, since the animal, is afraid of us. The King of Birds is fierce. The eagle's hunting ground is higher up, where the terrain opens up and where grass reigns supreme. On leaving the forest, we cross an area The tree's branches It's pain for those who dare. The alpine grass takes over, a terrain that resembles the tundra Since prehistoric times, the marmot has taken refuge To go about their daily activities, marmots have developed Sentinels take turns of guard duty In this way, and spend their time Even more outstanding, From a distance, and proximity of any potential danger. A repeated whistling signifies be on your guard. A short whistle means During the time the eagle has become accustomed and sometimes a miracle can take place. The eagle's eyesight and his field of vision is 300 degrees. Nothing escapes his sight. The eagle gains high altitudes It's a bitter law of nature, but without marmots, The final step of the ascension, On these vertiginous slopes, we sometimes hear the sound It's the chamois, The eternal snow One would think that nothing but that is not the case. Usually, the snow is white, This is due to algae What do they feed on? Water. These microscopic particles It's the blood of the glaciers. The Mercantour Massif An important event has taken place During the first days of April, Two brothers are born This wolf cub is three weeks old. It's the first time The youngsters' curiosity coming towards them. The two brothers are ready for adventure, eager to go out Their mother isn't there. There she is. Maybe they should've stayed in. They still don't realize Like their mother, they won't understand that they frighten children for no reason, and some people would prefer them but in spite of the fear they generate, From the highest mountaintops survival strategies A prime example What could possibly survive where moving around defies Yet, there's a surprising, rare, A tightrope walker the butterfly bird. This vertical life is the passion both European leading climbing champions. During their ascension, Small flowers appear as if by magic, or this old Phoenician juniper bush. It's more than a thousand years old, and its roots grow deep However, their favorite sight, the one that fascinates them the most also known as the Tikadrama. It stands vertically, which are large and thumbs facing downward. It's called the butterfly bird because it roams along the cliffs Its wide wings enable it and to reach the heights Equaling the bird's likeness However, the challenge has its limits. Arnaud and Stephanie Sleeping on the cliffs momentarily out of time. The plains of Alsace and the Vosges mountain chain is a surprising region. In the autumn, and cross France on their way For thousands of years, the adults have been guiding along these airborne routes. This family consists of a father, The two adults fly ahead the other takes over. The youngsters follow them. Since this is their first journey, they stay close to their parents They take advantage of the current The parents are not from the same species. The mother is a blue goose, Their offspring are therefore mixed. Some have the yellow beak of their father Things have not gone A young female She spends her time doing when she should be saving her energy. The youngster refuses Her constant lagging behind is wreaking havoc within the group. Mother often has to put her youngster The parents use visual references, and sometimes even our manmade roads Tonight, they decide Of course, The family will spend the night Our family has been awake since dawn, They have to wait for the fog to lift. True to her independent nature, the young rebel leaves totally unaware of the danger. The family is ready to leave. The father is confident The sun's rays are strong enough that will carry them along. At the other end of the lake, however, our young miss is beginning to realize that she can't hear They've left without her. What now? Young geese Without their parents to guide them, Follow the water, Call her mother in the hope Heading southwest, crossing the plains covering 300 kilometers in one day. The mother has just realized She's got to find her immediately. As she flies back to the lake, the father continues the journey He'll slow down the rhythm knowing The mother checks every part There she is. With one flap of the wings, She places her youngster hoping to join the family There they are. Has the young rebel learned her lesson? Adult geese are extraordinarily patient They never give up on them. The plains of Alsace are rich and fertile. Man has lived here for a long time cultivating its hills. Just above these medieval villages, the Vosges. A sumptuous flora transforms Beech, oak, spruce, rivaling each other in terms of size. Some of these centuries-old trees It's a rich and protected habitat that enjoys the generosity of this forest. Another animal with a ravenous appetite More discreet than the bear, The badger Miss Badger lives here. Her life is organized She wakes up at 7:00. She takes care of a little business Breakfast at 7:10. She cleans herself up at 7:15, followed by a tour Although her schedule today an important project This morning, she feels Finding a Mr. Badger She knows, where to find a handsome male partner. However, before choosing her lucky mate, Mrs. Badger has to find a home Like any respectable badger, she needs a home with one main entrance More important, however, Digging begins. This ground is too light, Oh, sorry, madame. This might do. No, it won't do at all. Here? Not so great either. This looks just right. A high ceiling with visible beams. A fox has already done a good part This will be just fine. Mr. Badger will help Miss Badger knows on the other side of the lake. What's important Certain males accept only to leave the moment A male has left his odor as he passed by. Where is he hiding? In a universe of caves and labyrinths, one can search for weeks There he is. What's more, That's a good sign. He agrees. Miss Badger is happy. No, the house This way, Mr. Badger. Mr. and Mrs. Badger To do so, to create galleries on several levels. Soon, five young badgers doing their business at 7:05, and cleaning at 7:15. Going down towards the plains thousands of hectares of nature Just outside of Paris, there's a forest attracted the kings Fontainebleau is a royal forest. For 1,500 years, it has been protected In this forest in these illusively-shaped rocky massifs, the world's royalty Dogs have been through the undergrowth An incredible story It's a story of complicity One often talks about inseparable deer, and it's true that two deer These two 10-pointer royal males The two friends are both seven years old The first deer is fearful, deeply worried, The second deer is careless The fearful deer's ears within a radius of 300 meters. The careless animal, however, his nose. He knows how to find Willow leaves and tender ivy. We can understand They warn each other of the danger They are partners in everything The deer have a territory and a network of trails and which cross our paths. These routes from generation to generation. The deer has been hunted To escape their highly organized packs, Although wolves are coming back to France, the danger often comes dogs. The tricks, however, Getting away from the pack but especially getting rid of the odor Passing through dry terrain Entering the water and hiding, The odor spreads in the water Even the sharp noses The deer have escaped the pack. The careless deer remains calm, but his fearful partner Once again, they help each other. When it's time to rest, they find a well-protected hiding place They spend the entire winter, but with the changing of season when their story shifts dramatically. It's autumn, their antlers Their coat has grown and turned black. A hormone in their body testosterone. They can only think of one thing, Each deer approaches One through the plain, Testing their power of seduction, mingling with the females The squall stimulates and activates their going into heat. From that moment on, The fearful one becomes fearless. Complicity is totally forgotten. Forcing the other to give up The does await the verdict. The fearful deer is the strongest. His bellowing The careless deer surrenders. The females gather around their hero. He will mate with them for an entire month and prevent any new pretender His careless friend will remain alone, but when the first cold days as if nothing had happened, the two friends will become allies Wild animals have lived side by side and they've had to adapt Some are dangerous, A great many animals Ever since she was a child, Marie has been coming Her reputation has gone far As soon as an animal is in difficulty, The most frequent animal wounds For a variety of reasons, newborns and youngsters Hunting is sometimes the cause as well. In the spring she receives meaning up to 70 baby bottles Marie's dilemma to all of her convalescing animals. However, this affection has to include without doing too much since there's a risk to its human benefactors. Marie is like a surrogate mother, and a maternal relationship The treatment is the same for all the youngsters. Warmth, constancy, The little owls with their golden eyes They like to play Games like these create complicity. Most of the animals when they need her. In her presence, and ironically, prey and predator In Marie's opinion, the animals Simply telling them gives them the strength Animals are like us, she says. If you encourage them, they'll make the effort. She feels that some of them However, she doesn't want them and forget their wild impulses. When an animal is back in good health, Releasing them isn't easy. A part of Marie leaves with them. Giving back their freedom On the Atlantic side of France there is a very unique type It's a natural space shaped by man, 100,000 hectares of inundated land. Today, these spaces where seawater have created an incredible ecosystem Julian has been exploring these wetlands and he knows all its secrets. Julian is a living memory His passion is to talk about the land This inveterate storyteller to anyone ready He guides us through its meanders to discover the incredible stories Part of the swamp land the Rozalea. In spring, all the creatures One of them requires a transformation to create its offspring. The dragonfly undergoes a metamorphosis. The small larva has spent Its perilous transformation A high ground is required. Tonight, its life is going to change. The ugly aquatic larva is going to become The liberation can begin. Sucking in the air its thorax breaks the envelope. It sheds its former skin. Its new feet come out easily, They're still too soft. No question of falling now. Wait for the feet to harden. The mutant is now At last, its feet are ready. They're going to be able Extracting the abdomen, the final step The young dragonfly deploys its new body. The wings and fowl are humid and soft. Any movement could attract It's a critical moment. Suddenly, the miracle occurs. The wings are deployed, In the early morning, it's finally ready. The dragonfly flaps its wings Four independent wings The small aquatic larva has become one of the most sophisticated No machine can come close of a dragonfly in flight. Soon it will find a partner, and the cycle will begin again. When man first arrived here the site was an immense marshland In the 12th century, and began the monumental task They built dams dug canals to evacuate the rainwater, Agriculture and animal breeding prospered, giving these formerly hostile lands In a part of the marshes, Julian knows of an area left fallow by man The ash trees have been abandoned. They have since been deployed, It's a secret spot a forest, where in spring, one hears It's a nursery for colonies of herons, Although it's a paradise for some, These fledglings are three weeks old Their parents spend to satisfy their ravenous appetites. Something, however, is not right. One of the three youngsters stands back while the other two devour and yet he's hungry too. Usually, but the male in his family disappeared. The mother is required to feed her young. She has to fly up to 30 kilometers Competition is fierce in the swamp. She's not the only one The mother doubles her efforts but a struggle The two strongest siblings More frail and less active, The problem is there aren't any. A single parent Instinctively, It's not just a simple rivalry, The weakest of the three will die and there's nothing The laws of nature can often be merciless. The best way to understand the complexity The Marais Poitevin of an infinite number of canals. They drain the water towards the sea. This network of land arteries that descends The wetlands capture alluvia, treat it, and cast These high-quality waters are a godsend for the reproduction A great many birds come here but the countryside Frank is one of these. His passion is finding the greatest number Frank, however, His mission, is to give the young birds he finds, He travels through the swamps looking for the most hidden areas. His objective is to protect those who have unknowingly placed themselves The short-eared owl nestles on the ground. This tendency can often be fatal, since they cannot tell the difference This species of owl Frank's job is to alert farmers to the fact that beneath their feet, He asked them to be careful as they reap their crops. This knowledge make each of us capable of preserving More and more bird species because in our environment, Without knowing it, The jackdaw is a small, mischievous bird For Frank, smelling the aroma of a bird while still allowing it to remain free. Thanks to people like Frank, millions of birds allowing them making it possible Julian has other surprises When night falls over the marshes, other creatures wake up The Rhinolophus bat is one but for one of these bats, She has to rush back to her colony's nest Tonight, she's going to give birth Like swallows, Although Rhinolophus bats our future mother in order to give birth in privacy. The contractions have begun. The head appears first. The mother begins She licks it and frees its ears, The newborn is free and it descends naturally, With her wings, she envelops and protects The Massif Central in the center of France eroded by time. Further south, we find the incredible diversity The river water have carved the contours Over time, the water has dugout canyons In recent years, an extraordinary animal on the cliffs of this region, the griffon vulture. It lives in colonies and is dependent on the actions The vulture has invented for finding its prey. It's a sophisticated procedure It's 6:00 a.m., and the sun hasn't yet penetrated Without the warmth of the sun, Despite its hunger, At last, the air can carry them. Like an air squadron, They gain altitude, They can now fully demonstrate of dividing up the territory. The large birds take their positions They scan every inch but never lose track of the other vultures If one of them spots a prey, The other vultures haven't seen the prey, but they've noticed This means there's something In a matter of seconds, the entire colony The work Sharing is the price to pay Each bird can now return to its nest with a part of the treasure The formidable work of vultures and their bacterial pollution, thus preventing the contamination Thanks to them, these lands are now clean To the north of the Cevennes, the Lozere region with its higher plateaus Protestants took refuge here during the great religious wars. This was once the scene Despite its austere nature, it's here that the greatest number One of the most famous the Tarn. During the first warm rays the Tarn reaches its optimum strength. Eric wants to challenge the river However, before measuring himself the extreme kayak-racing champion He wants to become one with the river Eric knows that he can't fight its power. The slightest error is unforgivable. The force of the currents Eric experiences extreme pressure. During such moments, a feeling His passion was born on this river. Ever since, when spring arrives, The rivers cross and nourish the land, just as the blood They are the country's precious treasures. The rivers of France from a bygone nearer, the otter. With nostrils capable eyes that can change shape to adapt streamlined body, powerful webbed feet, and nasal hairs that enable the otter of any underwater prey, the otter has a huge number of powers. Beauty, however, attracts jealousies. The otter's thick, soft, and warm fur who used the fur The otter reigns When he leaves to hunt for food, Everyone goes into hiding. If a fish sees an otter, If you see one, don't try to challenge it. The otter can remain underwater An insect endemic to the Cevennes the black bee. It has existed on our planet and yet it might have disappeared were it not for people This flower-loving insect is a workaholic. It works much more than necessary, Which is what enables man above all, for itself. Yves is a very special kind of beekeeper, and his honey is famous Yves' ability stems from his thorough knowledge His talents borders on alchemy. To house his bees, Yves builds them trunk hives which are imitations In these chestnut tree trunks, thousands of workers The black bee has a highly sophisticated reminiscent of advanced technology. Attracted by vivid colors, it looks for the nectar However, on its return trip it passes from color a subtle moderation for the bee. When the scout detects it transmits the information to the hive. By a series of dances and gesticulations, and even the quantity of pollen available. This is how To preserve the health of his bees, Yves practices He creates a new swarm. He coaxes the old queen As soon as she's inside, The departure of the old queen provokes of a very dynamic, However, he also wants to preserve and prevent the black bee as a result of inbreeding with other bees. He therefore transports where no other variety of bee lives. He won't take any honey In this way, A bee lives for barely 30 days, becoming in turn, a cleaner, nursemaid, It's only after this entire series that the bee can become a nectar gatherer. Then one day, it falls to the ground, struck down by fatigue. Throughout its entire existence, To the south of the shores lies an island of majestic beauty. From its mountainous barriers, ravines, and canyons, a legend recounts that the sun that a child was born, Corsica. We're now in the Scandola reserve. Dominated the cliffs plunge gracefully Scandola is dedicated to the preservation and sea treasures. This unique site has been classified The symbol of the reserve, the osprey, is back again. Although Scandola on land is magnificent, it's under the sea that this reserve To protect this exceptional heritage, one man has devoted his adult life Jean-Marie is the curator of the site. He has an appointment Each time he dives, as if it knew, the carnivorous creature but it does so without any warning. It chooses its hour. The fish here have no fear of man. They're not hunted This herbarium is one It's an underwater prairie with 20 liters of oxygen Scandola is a favorite spot The eggs laid here outside the limits of the reserve and nurture All of these fish species will flourish and guarantee their presence There it is, waiting. The grouper is accustomed at a depth of 100 meters. However, in these protected waters it has no qualms Why does it systematically greet him? Is it accustomed to this man in a bubble? Who are you? The love life of the grouper to say the least. The grouper is a hermaphrodite. All young groupers are born as females and at the age of ten Males and females come together They dance and change colors This is the astounding nuptial parade The grouper almost disappeared but it once again reigned supreme, The Fango Delta is just a beach where freshwater joins the sea. In these natural ponds, a species of animal that has existed the cistude. It's the mating season, and this particular turtle As a cold-blooded reptile before mating, it has to recover its energy, Quickly, to the solarium. No time to lose Oops, too late. This makeshift raft No, this is definitely not a good idea. Over there, an isolated female? The technique is quite simple. Without her seeing, to take his mate by surprise to prevent her from moving and breathing. No one in the colony The cistude turtle is somewhat brutal, As soon as one moves away from the coast, this mountainous island with a marquee of thick, sharp-cutting, To survive in this vegetal barbed wire, one needs to be made of bronze The king of this terrain is the wild boar. Most wild boars Certain individuals, however, This large male is a case in point. He's coupled with all the females, resulting in the birth Is he getting bored? Is he frustrated which no longer call him in their favor? Or is he filled The male abandons his herd Equipped with the world's the boar can distinguish odors several days ago. A herd of boar About 15 individuals, Wait a minute, an uncoupled sow. Just what he needs. He's three days late. In three days, the group His snout, however, without the slightest wrong turn. The only thing that could make him Has the female crossed the river? It's over there. Time to cross over. In spite of his hunger, Day and night, which brings him closer After two days without stopping, There they are. The herd and the young female. That's definitely her. As if they understand each other with a sense of modesty the two animals join together far from curious eyes. Now, it's time for a nice bath in order to eliminate any ticks The adventure he has just experienced and he's ready once again The sexual drive has an important genetic function Thanks to these adventurous individuals, the wild boar herds will not deteriorate The gentleness of the climate and the fantastic have attracted a number of different Some of them In the commune of Venaco, the inhabitants have preserved Animals other than wild boars through the Corsican mountains. At the end of spring, goats and sheep The herds do not need anyone, to reach the cooler climates Paul is their shepherd. He's been following them for 30 years. When they decide to leave, he has to go. He leaves the village to spend five months After a day of climbing, find the pastures The summer can now arrive. An uncontrollable instinct flows In the past, and became what they were wild sheep. In the neighboring valley, the boar has finally found a herd without having to head for the mountains. A few hundred kilometers away, He puts together a few branches in the shadow of the spruce trees. The deer are back together. The two rivals A new year of complicity can begin. The vultures continue which they don't have to share this time. The bat is now teaching her young to hunt. The two wolf cubs have become adolescents and follow their pack The dragonfly has found a partner and will give birth The marmots take advantage before their long hibernation. Mr. and Mrs. Badger have had an argument. They've decided The entire family has succeeded What remains now a final ordeal The difficulties of traveling of the young rebel. Her parents sometimes With enormous courage, these birds have been confronting in order to survive The geese will spend and return in the spring to once again soar