For a moment, there was so much hope. Apartheid was over. South Africa had, for decades, essentially on the same landscape. There was the white nation--wealthy and westernized--boasting to that of Europe due to its similarly strong Then there was the black nation--impoverished by a legally enshrined system of segregation. It felt like Europeans had just built an insular like what it was. But finally, following decades of internal that reached a climax with the waning need new president announced the release of apartheid-era Most of these prisoners were members of the anti-apartheid force--including the famed As time marched forward, Mandela negotiated transition--something some thought impossible--as away. Then, in South Africa's first truly democratic Mandela, the former prisoner, was elected In the view of most, at that moment, South It had massive mineral wealth, it had a diversified the continent rose, the world hoped and believed of the potential of African economic and human If the white and black nations could truly its way towards being considered a social former British colony in the southern hemisphere high-income, multicultural society. Crucial to this, perhaps the greatest task was how to build a black middle class. The legally enshrined systems of segregation reversed in an instant--but what was left of poverty. Simultaneously, there was the wealthy white system who would not tolerate a simple redistribution So the ANC had to thread the needle--correct of the status quo. Initially, they were fairly successful at The beginnings came naturally as black party compensated public sector jobs previously permeated elsewhere as qualified individuals entered every other newly desegregated profession. Formerly impoverished townships like Soweto neighborhoods filled with rows of single-family and bars. And crucially, this wasn't due to wealth white population of Soweto stayed at just More broadly, nationwide, according to one grew from just 1.7 million in 2004 to 4.2 As perhaps the strongest validation of South selected to host the 2010 FIFA World Cup--an the African continent. This sent a message. It said that, of anywhere in Africa, South the world's second highest profile sporting Inevitably, naysayers arose--they said the in time; then when they did, they said the then when they didn't, they said that fans lives in crime-riddled South African streets, As the sound of vuvuzelas engulfed the TV host country and it was now thought of in or any of the other World Cup hosts. But eventually, Spain bested the Netherlands; Soccer City Stadium switched off; the fans revealed an uncomfortable truth: while the the short period--they were able to create Japan or France--it didn't last. Progress had stagnated. It might have actually reversed. This is perhaps best represented by this: Nowadays, it's published each month by the it outlines the schedule of when each municipality After decades of deferred maintenance on a white minority, plant failures have escalated supply and demand. That creates this dissonance: a country that, areas of Europe, yet is plunged into darkness These days, a lack of load-shedding is the 5,858 hours when the grid has failed to meet But while perhaps the most palpable issue effects, South Africa is increasingly failing services. In 2018, Cape Town nearly became the first the city's reservoirs ran dry during a drought--a foresight--but more broadly and regularly, water has started to decline in recent years. Water infrastructure is crumbling and just of Pretoria, the administrative capital, due from the modern world thanks to modern sanitation The nation's homicide rate is skyrocketing--climbing and judiciary appear entirely ineffective up with anyone in court, and even then, just as the legal system breaks down as well. South Africa's state-owned freight rail a very similar situation to Eskom--as it running, and carries 25% less cargo today country's lucrative, export-focused industrial South African Airways, which was separated fully collapsed and ceased all operations as an embarrassing shell of its previously No matter where one looks, one struggles to improving in South Africa and the closer one When the blackouts began in 2007 they were inconvenient irregularities. Then, in the January heat of the southern With demand surging past supply, tourists Town, mines evacuated miners from shafts that the South African government declared a national The panicked power cuts made international of gold and platinum shot skyward after announcements It was not the first load shedding that Eskom by far the worst. And it was right on time. In fact, this very moment, when South Africa's by its consumers, had been predicted to nearly As the paper had estimated, should no action the country's surplus, then sitting at a by about 2007. And no action was taken. For all that changed politically and socially the ANC, South Africa's grid on the supply Of the nation's fifteen separate power plants only these two came online during the period brought back into production having been moth-balled As heavy industry moved into the resource-rich the grid to black and under-privelaged neighborhoods and power available first shrank, then disappeared And why South Africa failed to take action White papers, by their very nature, are supposed outlining specific problems, providing only offering a set of specific options forward. This one runs 110 pages. And as for problems specifically facing the until 41 pages in, where the danger of a potential bullet point 7, behind issues of fair access usage. And as for fixing the problems, there's and incentivize competition--recommendations Eskom officials who had, to this point, maintained cheap electricity and lots of it, the state The paper, like the government that authored host of issues, but it pushed the longer term to radically reform through vague and confusing With the grid and beyond it, there was just Some problems the white paper identified were and pathways for black managers to work for contract with the utility were created. But other problems were only made worse, as to stimulate competition. Ultimately, only when no competition appeared its margin did the ANC reverse the ban. It was too little too late by then, as the surplus--selling to nearby neighbors, and averages than those from its own continent--was saying that they wouldn't be able to dig years. But more than 15 years on, as additional power still in the grips of regular rolling blackouts. Across the 2010s, power capacity in South The problem was, actual production still stagnated--it's to keep them running. In late 2014 and early 2015, it was diesel that cut national power production short of In 2019, it was a coal shortage, flooding, Finally, beginning with maintenance issues its worse outages ever--employee strikes of 2022, then more plants failures in 2023 countrywide, blackouts occurred at least once Delayed maintenance, old coal plants, and But so too was institutional rot. What was supposed to be fixed by ANC overhaul, the ANC itself. With cuts reaching 12 hours a day by the end resigned, a move which nearly killed him when lethal dose of cyanide into his coffee. In a now deleted interview revealing this the ANC of institutional corruption where estimated 1 billion rand or $52 million dollars single month. While such a number is nearly impossible to loss that such widespread and long lasting Post-apartheid GDP Growth, which the ANC had 4 percent only once since power shortages Bank has estimated that blackouts from 6-12 out of the economy a day--up to $50 million Eskom, for its part, has raised electricity itself under a mountain of debt and unable Confronting this darkness, nearly everyone can are working to isolate themselves from from the public services they can no longer To start, with police response times often the world's largest private security industry More people are employed by this industry, That's because nearly every expensive home of the plethora of armed response security which patrols the nice neighborhoods and shows Outside of their homes, the life of the wealthy places like Sandton in Johannesburg or Sea into city improvement districts where the into an organization that ensures safety by And some go further--filling potholes, fixing the things that are the responsibility of happen regularly or reliably in practice. In sum, the proliferation of private security areas of the country to maintain a semblance day-to-day experience is no different than And this disconnect with their surroundings the nation's booming industries is now solar South Africa's total solar capacity has that can afford it are purchasing setups to grid conditions. And as perhaps the penultimate form before to eliminate their reliance on the South African abroad. Those that can obtain Australian or UK citizenship en masse, while immigration lawyers and nations of those that can't. Neighboring Namibia, for example, is developing includes, with the purchase of a condo or Malta, St Kitts and Nevis, and others are for six-figure so-called "investments" with the wealth to do so are taking them up Bs. Now, it's not like South Africa hasn't a time when crime was as high; there was a was a time when, broadly, it was a less developed But what makes its current reality so grim is devolving from its previous state as one And this devolution is morphing into a death Look no further than the load shedding. When the grid is turned off, the lack of dangerous to remove copper cables and transformers. With each theft, the power utility has to issues, rather than the generating issues place. This makes the root cause worse, which makes common, which makes the root cause worse, A certain degree of solution could come from within the power utility itself, but with stops, food spoils, thieves steal. The causes are myriad, but the effect is consistent: for the government which leaves it with less cause, which makes blackouts more common, makes the root cause worse, and so on and As all this occurs, quality of life declines few. They have to deal with higher crime, the inconvenience and rand exchange rate which makes purchasing out of reach. With the luxury of choice, the rich are emigrating--bringing which weakens the economy, which makes the which makes blackouts more common, which makes which makes the government less able to address worse, and so on and so on and so on. This death spiral extends society-wide. It is now a central, unique defining feature As the continent's poverty rate plummets, As the continent's human development rates As almost every indicator of human and economic Africa's regresses. That's to say: this isn't some systematic making the nation's decline inevitable, the government. Support for the African National Congress--once reached an all-time low. 2021 was the first municipal election that below 50%--essentially every issue has only and cronyism within the party emerge every In 2024 the nation will elect a new national growing coalition in opposition, the ANC is country could see functional political plurality Now, as rhetoric focuses on whether South there is a question worth asking on whether state. There was a time when it seemed more stable the part of the nation that one saw on World Africans one would meet abroad--more specifically, voices were stifled. Through the apartheid era, South Africa failed standard--sanitation, education, police--to population. By many definitions, that is a failed state. So that's to say, basic services have never is that today, the deficiency is being shared It would've been unrealistic to expect that minority propped up by oppression itself could going to be a tricky transition. But tragically, the ANC--the institution now slowing it down. Party members are using their positions to prop up the privileged--the very dynamic Perhaps the sole light in the situation is one can identify that the transition is failing--that South Africa still has a starting point that neighbors--it still has a robust economy, is naturally indebted with valuable resources--so and create a thriving state that truly works slowly starting to close. With each passing day, those with the luxury their bags and driving to the airport one With each hour of load shedding, the economy Hope is not lost in South Africa, but with grows ever harder to find. Finance is tricky--it's a very easy thing increasingly design their services around Subscriptions especially can really add up I recently started using our sponsor, Rocket They're an all-in-one finance platform that Personally I find it super useful as I save a custom budget that automatically monitors score to make sure I raise it as much as possible me to automatically deposit a certain amount my savings even more. Personally, I really like having Rocket Money rather than having to use a bunch of different if you happen to be one of those very common you can go to RocketMoney.com/wendover or for free, and then you can unlock even more