Friends! Hi all! You are on the Rybolov Kopatel channel! This is Pavel and Jack Russell Terrier Jolie! It's time to sum up the results of the year's excavations. Why so early? Yes because winter started early this year! It crept up sharply, unnoticed - and began in the fall, so check out the video! Video about how it happened! The best moments of our trips this year! Subscribe! Put it up! Write comments. I brought everyone here! Look! Everyone you see! I brought everyone here! - Well, do you like it here? - I love it! I love this place! I love this company! - Is it true that you served in Afghanistan? - It's all gossip! The General has a signal. Look, right in front of the swamp! Here, at the depth of the bayonet, the pouch and the yarn fly out! This is a New Year's trip, friends! I'm shocked! Well done General, congratulations! This is what it means: The General went to excavations! Amazing! Haven't looked at the marks yet. This is the depth, one bayonet of a shovel. Leonid raised something cheerful. Let's go have a look, guys. Yes, this is the size of a thaler! Amazing! Jubilee coin. Three brands. Germany. It looks like there was some kind of garbage dump here. This is a New Year's trip! 2023! Everyone is still eating salads, but we are already digging in! And the finds are very pleasing! Isn't this Eldorado, friends? Now let's see what Vladislav dug up there. He says half a token. Reserve battalion. And then I don't know. Lenya knows, he deciphered it. Pass! Wasn't it buried deep? Leonid had some other finds! Is it a syringe? - The smell of smelt comes from the pit. - Yes, yes, I opened the cultural layer! The boot appeared. Lots of junk in abundance. So, what's with the syringe? There he is, oh-oh-oh, slowly emerging. Some kind of pump or syringe? Something strange. He was in some kind of casing. Although here it's like there's a place for a needle. Timur also digs a hole into the depths, and for good reason! And Pavel just walks around and films videos of the guys digging up finds! This is my fate, friends. I am a cameraman and director by nature. And we, dear viewer, will not leave you without finds! The boys are trying so hard. Look what Timur dug up! No politics! No propaganda! Only history! Such a wonderful eagle, he also has hooks with everyone! This is the plot, this is the beginning of the season! Yes, Timur? Who would have thought! First trip of the year! What date is today? Third of January! We left early in the morning. Who would have known that such pleasant finds awaited us! This is the master's yard. Leonid seems to have stumbled upon a silver mine! Ay-ah-ah-ah, while I was out to eat soup, the 800th sample has already arrived! Herr Ender or what? Or something close to it. Look how classic it is. Yes, there are 70 grams, no less! This is certainly a very pleasant find! Maybe there will even be gold on this farm! Guys, look, black matter is flying out! I rubbed the edges like that, you see, tank stuff! Shard. I hope it will be more or less in good condition. Now I'll try to free him from this matter and see what's there. Well, this is the guy he turns out to be. It's a pity, of course, that it ate him. Well, that's okay. I washed it with water and didn't torture it with chemicals. Well, the other side looks like this, see? Here's another piece of the form. The crock began to boil. But nothing, the very fact of the find pleased me. I had a signal, half a bayonet of a shovel - depth. It rang very well! Unusual yarn, ah-ah-ah, worker-peasant affairs! Look how beautiful it is! The General already threw me a brush. The marks appeared, but overall it was beautiful! I'm glad grandpa gave me a Christmas present. This is a thrill, friends, this is a thrill! We need to take a closer look here. Hasn't anyone checked here? Well, this is the kind of labor front we have, friends, this is the RAD. Work matters. No propaganda, just history! Score, score! I'm glad, thanks to grandpa. It's good that we came here. We came to the comrades, they are digging the foundation. Here is such a find. This happens to us often. ALL THE TRASH IS DEEPER, GUYS! 2016 I didn't expect it at all. Timur just called and asked how things were going. I say there is nothing at all! Then Vlad called, I also complained to him that there were no finds. And then I got a signal! And look what I came across! It's a buckle, friends! Is this Hitler Jugend or what? Just like that! How many times have we walked here! I'm just shocked! Everything seems to be smooth, now I'll clean it and see! Here you go! Cleaned it. Look, by the way, this is the first time I'm lifting such a yarn. The fork flew away, but the gate is still there! And overall the condition is not bad, just like that. It pops up where you don't expect it. I just washed it with water, I won't torment it with anything else. Interesting marks came out. Assmann. And two more marks. The manufacturer is so good and fashionable. No propaganda and politics and so on! Only the story on the Rybolov Kopatel channel. Here is sadness and melancholy. Look, only a piece remains of the lining. Ay-yay-yay-yay. Sadly. But this is not a standard yarn. Here you can see the word of some other motto! Now Vladik will connect Google. It's completely unclear. Maybe there was some kind of party? I don't understand! You just have to look at what types there are. Master subscribers, who are good at military and other mottos, write your versions. Tell me what kind of yarn it was, based on the fact that the letters "ONT" are depicted on it. It's not clear where is up and where is down? Unfortunately, we were unable to find any remains of the lining. Write your versions. He's digging for some kind of waste here, there's all sorts of dishes and look what pops out! Badge for wounding, in paint. This is the sign. Smooth, pleasant. The needle is in place. The general doesn't need anything! He is resting, has eaten some fat and is sleeping! Advertising. Hi guys! An old man just sat down to finish off some hole. And look what flew out of the wall! Well it will be good! Maybe yes! Well, this one is worth four points! Normal buckle, brand is not visible. It's a little sour here, but it's still good. Well done, Timur! The Eagle is not looking at GOTT. If an eagle is looking at GOTT, then the yarn increases in price multiple times. Next is a sign, a little worn out, but still nice. The cogs are in place, great! the bridge was once friends and now it's a place! There was a bridge here once upon a time. And now a place for meditation! There Kolyan is crawling. -Where is Timur? - He's tinkering with the foundation there. In general, I am an adventurer by nature! So watch the show and subscribe to Kolya's channel! But you won't see such content from him! Timur and I don't suffer from such nonsense. Subscribers write, but Kolya is not such a fool as Pasha makes him out to be! What are you saying, friends? Kolya is a great guy, he overcame the obstacle! Kolyan is just what you need! The signal under the tree is great. Now I'll even tell you the numbers. 83 and look! I don't know what it is, but it's a broken hairpin in two parts, or something else. The color looks like silver. I need to go wash this. Well, I obviously didn't break it. There was probably a hairpin. There are some stories there. Grasshoppers, ants. Let's go take a look, I have never found anything like this in my practice. Suspicion of silver: either from a belt, or for a hairpin. Something very chic! Look! Grasshoppers! I'll go and call again, I have a feeling that this is not all. There seems to be no center. And there was some kind of circle in the center! What a beauty! Rings right in the roots! One more part! Friends, the same! What was that? Maybe there are more details? Look: 2, 3, and there's this pen! I don't understand what it is, and there is still some kind of signal! Right in the roots, there are still remnants there! Friends, do you see that sparkle? But we will not harm the tree, because everything is stuck there and cannot be reached. Let's be content with what we have! Now I'll wash it and try to depict what it was. In short, I don't know how it was there originally, but it was some kind of napkin holder, I think. Maybe even a canteen! Well, I still don't think it's silver! Most likely plated with silver. Uncle Kolya found the buckle. says good! I thought something would be more or less interesting today! Don't drown! Don't scoop ice water into your boots. Everything has already started to decline! Look, it's absolutely chic, look how it is! Cheerful, friends! And on the brand! Look at the paint too. Amazing! What a find! - Timur says this is Chernyakhovsk? - This is a hub nut. Well, of course, yes, now the city is Chernyakhovsk. So hello to the Chernyakhovites! If you want, I'll give you a thousand nut for one and a half rubles! A few meters away there is a zinc signal, and look what flew out! Zinc token. We need to look into it. I see over there, it's full, I need to go wash it. Here you go, a horse signal, half a bayonet of a shovel, its depth. Maybe from the First World War. A lot of text. Yes, World War I. I ask for help in deciphering. Maybe now Pasha will tell me what it is, Pash? What kind of coin? - This is the first time I've seen such a coin! - Listen, well, this is kind of solid, in my opinion! Well, like this: old, old! Petrovich closes the mortgage using it, friends! Look! Just look! Crown and shield! Yes, it's 1600 for some year! That's it, friends! This is such a find. Timur has arrived. He takes a coin out of his pocket! Sigismund! Yes, there is a very beautiful embossing there. I see the gate. Well done! Lucky! Today Timur is our champion! Look, they made something like a knife out of a copper belt. Because you see, it's sharpened at an angle? Now I'll focus. It turns out to be such an entourage knife. Well, what a cool find. Do you see this sharpening? Well, if it's not my fantasy, of course! Although no, it is clear that this is a knife. What jumps out at us? Looks like an interesting icon! In enamel. This is probably from the First World War. Vlad somehow found one like this. You need to put it in oxalic acid! I think it will be normal. You might be able to get something out of him! This is our oxalic acid. Now I'll lower the water a little to hot. It will merge. Oh, this will be enough for us. We throw our icon there. Let's close. Oh-oh, there was a reaction immediately, there was a reaction immediately! Out! Look, the cleaning has begun. Let's chat a little more: 1-2 -3-4-5! Oh oh oh! What beauty is brewing there! Now all the dirt there will just dissolve. Those are the paws of an eagle! Wings! I think it's time to check what happened there! Now we'll wash it with soap and it'll be fine! Well, it turned out to be such a cute eagle! Kolya found some interesting token! Here look! This is interesting! And the condition of the find is good. They write something about cats here. I want to tell you a story, friends! Kolya and I are going to the excavations today. Well, as usual, we chat about something about life, about everyday life, and we started talking about pets. Kolya says he has a dog, a toy terrier, well, we talked about it. Kolya says: "Actually, I want a cat!" But I won't take the cat. He says I love cats! Adore! He loves cats very much, but, he says, I certainly won't adopt them in my old age. And imagine, today grandfather Khabar gave him a cat. Here's a token! After all, Kolya and I decided that the cat theme had been solved! And since you can't take the cat home, at least take this token! Still, it was some kind of sign! It seems to me that this has a connection with the drinking establishment. The title has a cat theme. The cat is sitting there on a barrel of beer or wine. Drunk men are lying around under the table, and this is apparently the name of this restaurant! What a super find! This is why we love digging, because all these finds have a connection with the present. These finds somehow resonate with our lives directly! We have a sabotage, antifreeze has leaked! We have already dismantled the engine floor and removed the pipe! The pipe burst. Kolya automatically went to the river and immediately brought water. The Opel system will now have microorganisms. Am I right, Kohl? Microorganisms will now work in the Opel, and they will begin their own lives there! And it's like some kind of universe! Another world, not like ours! This swampy swamp emits large signals. Look, it says Opel here! It looks like some kind of car decor. It's unclear whether it's silumin or zinc! We need to dig around here now, maybe there will be spare parts for the equipment. There was some kind of Opel Blitz! Or maybe not! Here, too, there is some incomprehensible spare part. I'll poke around here for now. You can still see the red paint! Nikolai says there is content! All these excavations are not in vain! There's an iron cross, look! The only thing is that the condition is certainly unimportant! - It has a silver frame and an iron core. - I somehow had a desire to find one like this! You see, dreams come true! I won't say that this is a valuable find for me, but the fact itself made her happy! I still want to find 5 brands! - I think not today! - So everything is ahead, Kolya! Congratulations! Nikolai Well done! There was a signal in the beaver trail. Look, something colorful flew out. I don't even understand what this is! It seemed like it was a harmonica, but somehow it wasn't! Something else, I don't understand yet. There is a sign here. There's even something written on it. Now let's see what it is! I don't know, I would say that it's some kind of steelyard, or something connected with the scales. The scale is here, the logo is there, but it's hard to see. Nameplate in the inscriptions, what is it? It seems to me like some kind of measuring instrument. While driving home, with the help of comrades we were able to identify the find. Sasha, hello to you and thank you very much again! This is a goniometer. The name of the device comes from the words. I apologize for the pronunciation. Issued to all machine gunners, artillerymen, and mortarmen. Inside the device there is an angle measuring scale with markings up to 30 degrees. The body is made of brass. The officer's and non-commissioned officer's bags have a special pocket for the device. Look how big a hole I've already dug. And every scrap metal rings. And then a MOTOR METER jumps out among the metal. Bursted. I decided to continue digging deeper. It looks like a burner, it seems to be intact! I'll try not to break it, I'll dig it up now. What's next? Kolya recently found a similar burner. I dug around her a little. Something is sitting very firmly! I don't understand what's lying on the piece of wood! It even has a sequel! This is the test, friends! Now I'll clean it carefully. Washed it. I didn't find any inscriptions other than this. There's probably something about the diameter. Pressure parameters. Here she lies resting after the ground. Gorgeous. So, next, guys, look at some colored detail. Some kind of brass plate seemed thick. What is this? Very interesting, now we need to carefully dig around it so as not to get caught. Again some goniometric matters. I'll go wash it, guys! I wonder what this is? What a beauty you are! My fathers! The real level! Look! How I love such finds! Ah ah ah. An ant bit your finger, no big deal! I saw the mark here. 1935 Super! Generally great! Here this mechanism has just rusted! That is OK! It will be great. Cool find! East Prussia. Vlad raised his bayonet. In the old positions next to the release. Looks like bakelite handles. -Aren't you going to open it? - Then I'll open it. Listen, it's not bad! It seems to me as if it was closed with oil. - Well, the blade is good! - Well, yes! Let's see, it would certainly be great to wipe it with gloves like Kolyan's. It even smells like oil. There will probably be something here on this side. Well, here's the number. Listen, it's completely smeared with oil! That's why it was preserved like that! 1494 number. Cool. Well, let me take it off. Listen, in reality the oil seemed to pour out. Not water, but oil! Got my nose dirty. The handle is gone, of course, but the blade is good. Guys, there's a wolf there! I can not see anything! Maybe open the window? There he is, look! The wolf is real! A real wolf! Look, the wolf is running towards the car, not afraid of anyone! This is a dog! Hi, my dear! Great signal! Interesting find! Look! Some kind of bird. Slightly bent! This will be a cockade! Cool! Now I'll clean it! Maybe he's some kind of Frenchman, but that's not for sure! I think it's from the First World War. Bad news, friends, we have a broken magnet! You can see the end of the rope over there. The magnet lies somewhere in the water. Okay, now we'll come up with something. Seryoga said he'll go for a swim! We checked, there is no depth. You can take a risk. There's a lot of mud up to the knees. Now you get there, it will already be up to your chest, just make sure you don't get sucked in. The process has begun. There's a bite! What a vacation, friends! Ecological tourism! Come to the Kaliningrad region! Complete unity with nature. Seryoga is absolutely handsome! I just tore everything out by the roots. And returned to his native harbor! I won't throw anymore, I'm unlucky today. Almost lost the magnet. Ichthyander save him. Looks like gold! Go look! (I put my ring). Wow! In our area, gold is a rare find! This is great! Well, Pasha, brag! Oh oh oh! Engagement ring. The only thing I don't see is whether it's a thin ring or a thick one? - Oh oh oh! That's so beautiful! Well, this is rather modern, right, Pasha? - It is mine... Kolya swears obscenely. I'm not attentive, Pashka! Yes, you hit me hard. I was walking along the ditch and a very interesting find popped up! Look at some broken piece. What material is it made of? But it seems to depict some kind of little man, I don't even know what kind of alloy it is? It's like it's empty inside, look! What an interesting thing! Notice how the legs are like a bird's. I suppose that there could have been a river here once upon a time, because this ditch comes from afar. She walks through the field and goes into the forest, there and there. Here, from below, it's like a bird's feet, they diverge, an interesting pattern. What could this be, guys? People write to me: you used to dig for medieval coins, awards! And now you're showing us some kind of hat! Guys! I'm just showing the truth. I show what is really in the fields! You can't imagine how many diggers we have in our region! I just offer to watch this whole process with us! Something will be found! We're trying! We are making an effort, friends, don't blame us! Everything is as it is, in truth! Give it a thumbs up! We came to dig for Napoleon! And look what Kolyan comes across! Look how perfect it is! It will probably be five kilograms, right? Listen to this lump! She was flying somewhere! I'm shocked guys, cannonball! I found near the city of Gusev, but much less than this. - And I found hollow bombs. - No, I found the whole thing, but much less. I think there were maybe two kilograms in mine. And here there is always a nickel! Something interesting has come out! There's something written there! This is a car emblem, I think. Interesting! Look! It's beautiful, a little bent but it's not critical. Upon arrival home, I decided to throw the find into a solution of oxalic acid. Two spoons of acid, poured hot water over it all, immersed the artifact and immediately went through the cleaning process before our eyes. I don't know, it all took me about two minutes. You can see the dirt and buildup falling away. I used a soft brush and didn't press too hard. Then I washed it off with soapy water to quench the acid reaction. Look friends! Look what a find I have! Let's see something interesting now! Yes, something unusual! Something interesting indeed! Wow, this is the first time I've ever seen such a coin! Okay, now let's clean it! This is the first time I have seen such a coin! Maybe this is the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth? I think it's a Polish eagle. I'm very happy, it's just a blast! This is just a great find! Before us is a silver coin, one penny, silver, ruler Sigismund the third, Vase. This is the first time I've seen such a coin; I've never come across it before. The condition is not ideal. And again, look what flies out! I think there is already something like the Riga Solid. Look, the condition is absolutely gorgeous, only the edge is slightly broken off. Silver, this time in the form of a George Wilhelm lorry, Prussia. This is also the first time I have found such a coin. To be honest, I'm just shocked! I didn't want to go digging! I wanted to go with Seryoga to look for walnuts, he tells me, go dig, you'll dig up something good today! In short, I'm digging out three of these carriers in a row from here. Look here, look here, do you see the outline? Look friends, what do we have here? And this is the Iron Cross, 1st class! Look how good the other side is! Now I'll try to clean it. I'm shocked, friends! Who would have known? Now I'll clean it carefully. The mark is immediately visible here. Iron Cross First Class, pass! Now we will clean it! Now Seryoga will come and just be surprised! I'm shocked! Great, of course! No propaganda! Only history and collecting on the Rybolov Kopatel channel! I cleaned it slightly, mark 20. I think it's not the worst in condition. Yes, it's not in vain that I came. Okay, I'll try to do something with it at home, I need to put it in order. The frame is more or less well preserved. Everything seems to be fine here too. Look! And who jumped out here? It's a blast! Of course, time has taken a bit of a toll on his beard. But overall, it's a blast! Not expected. Who would have thought that the skull from the SS cap would fly out right at my feet. Suddenly. I make these little holes. Well, friends, it seems that I came for a reason! Here the Koenigsberg sign falls out. Not ideal, but a very, very pleasant find. I'll work with it in oxalic acid. Look at the handle. The blade is certainly not very good, but the handle is generally perfectly preserved. Pass! There will be a brand there. Wait until the end of the video, I'll wash everything and show you. Just like that. Look, even the screws are in place. They even move. This pen gives me positive emotions. There was a signal and this wheel was sticking out! And with rubber. This is definitely something military, there are markings here. It's huge, now we'll take it out. It's German. Judging by the letters. Some kind of fierce skating rink. He weighs more than me. Now I'll get him out! There is a fallen tree, its roots holding up the wheel. 80-90 kilograms, no less! I beat him, guys! It's tough! I decided not to waste time and rolled the wheel to the car. With great difficulty I rolled it over. Luckily it was not far from the car. I'm waiting for the General. Probably 800mm is the diameter, 94mm is the width, most likely so. This is probably the eleventh month of 1943, the production date. Of course, immediately after I returned home, I started searching for information. I was very interested in what kind of German technology this skating rink came from. I put it up for determination on the forum. This wheel belongs to the Tiger tank. Well, I cleaned one side. The bandage is in almost perfect condition. The only thing is that there is a small cut here, and in my opinion there is a similar loss in one other place. This is the episode we have for today, friends! I think it was interesting for you to remember our trips! Thanks everyone for watching! Write comments! Who hasn't subscribed yet - subscribe! Give it a thumbs up! Bye everyone!