Have you ever looked at a speedrun and went: I can't waste an entire day watching just one!" have a solution. By digging through the most I have scraped together, "The So in my Shortest Speedrun video I had and obviously here I now need to do that for long. A long speedrun can vary for a lot of people. least a couple hours, but to people who playing for an hour could seem like an eternity. 6 which are getting into very long territory, and and span all the way up in the hundreds of hours. longest runs of all time, but are the ten I found Let's go the opposite way from last time and climb start us off is The Legend of Zelda Breath of the don't at least mention this game. Hm..maybe First there's Digimon World 2 on Playstation with the any% record Running this kind of game is not for the faint It's because of how brutal the RNG This is a dungeon crawler RPG released life and while casually randomness may PrincessRescuer on speedrun.com wrote up a quite a nightmare to run. can think of in this game is unpredictable: Floor even being where you want it, items you shoot at On top of the RNG, the game has questionable One example is the status effect of your Digimon will always hit themself or an ally. you need in order to get past barriers There really isn't any warning if you're that your inventory is very limited so you may To add onto that, every attack animation gets infuriating when you get back to back that may already drain you, this game You'll be doing plenty of dragged out battling even worse, Digimon can't gain more than one level Speedrunning this game seems like the where no matter what you do, you're randomly A handful of brave souls have been Kheartz was the first to do so in This run was very sloppy but the fact it Heading into 2016, both ZChaotix and Chaotix was the first with a 24 hour time, 20 hour territory entering 2017. are two routes that have been worked on this is strictly as a secondary resource rather Anyways, with times being cut so much over unpredictable this game is. In 2018 Chaotix Smartball got what is the current record with just barely reaching a new hour barrier. A couple but it's safe to say this will never be a The second game we got is Pokemon Channel, a a proper game. I guess if you had to categorize It's like trying to describe doing taxes as you sell it, it's not going to make sense. in a house with a few outdoor areas. Most of your developed by Professor Oak. I guess Pokemon Getting to speedruns, there's two categories: Any% dive into 100%. This requires collecting pretty There are 330 total Nice Cards which are collected or by ordering them from "Shop 'n Squirtle". which is very rare, but once you collect one Lastly, like stated before you need to collect games does not keep count of such Pearstrike was the first person to do this in one Before this run he made a 24 page guide that goes You'll see also that Pearstrike on his layout every collectible needed throughout the bad idea considering how many items you need to One of the most critical things to note here GameCube to simulate proper days in the game which Looking at this guide, you'll see that the game day in-game. Imagine if you had to properly wait Two other runners have taken the record in this 2018, but in August carpaltunnel_of_love has what minutes, which for some reason seems to have no at how quickly someone got out of his surveillance Our third hit for today is Final Fantasy X. Now I'm not going to be one of those every single series cause I'll be honest, but it definitely is something I'd like to Anyways, a majority of the Final Fantasy by platform due to many of the games having The longest category for Final Fantasy X is clocking in at 19 hours, Like some other runs today, any interested a couple of guides that vary depending So what is Nemesis%? Well, you can kinda view which when comparing for the PS2 version, clocks defeat the Nemesis superboss which I guess is speedrun naming cliche ever and slapped a % sign A decent amount of people have sank into spanning up to 33 hours. Who needs sleep? require grabbing a platinum trophy which can only in the game. I saw a speedrun.com thread discuss 35 hours. Coming from a moderator, I imagine that so it could take even longer...I'll pass, I don't Next let's skip over to Undertale...which For today's sake though, we will instead leaderboard with a category labeled "True 100%". getting all yellow credits, all items, beating 93 endings. Anyone familiar with the game may be will go to my spam tab about how there aren't 93 Well, a reddit thread was posted breaking down breaks these down as far as slight text variations And what was that? You wanted me to say This category has a solid 10 page guide as well as a list with every Currently, the record is 27 hours, Undertale and Deltarune's top runners: Shayy. you'll see that you are allowed to pause the timer for up to 12 hours. While you hypothetically don't you best bet Shayy 13 hours in took a break Third on our list is Xenogears, an RPG from Square a lot of RPGs make for hefty speedruns. This game By messing with game saves, you can finish a but the 100% English record clocks in This run requires defeating all bosses, other items, abilities, and a list of so Again, RPGs are not my strong suit, I won't deny also run this which took nearly 44 hours; Luckily Definitely a common trend you'll Now, our next entry is kinda cheating in a way but there has been a Multiple Mario Games leaderboard comprised of goals in multiple Mario games back Usually done in live races with a ton of people, 120 Stars in Super Mario Galaxy, 120 Shines in Super Mario Galaxy 2. If just listing off this being a thing for over 5 years, the record Following the initial success of the 602, many together with many of them also being race events run their strongest game against the others. is the 3D Mario 1862. This requires and then also adds 380 Stars in Super Mario which has 880. This comes out to the final 1862. 31 hours and 35 minutes, but in terms of a solo minutes. Reading the runs' comments, they decided into an 1862 since the run was going really well. long run that you'll add another 13 hours of commitment I have. Speaking of commitments, you're enjoying what you're watching! Anyways, Have you ever wanted to play a Well, lucky you said that as Yu-Gi-Oh: Forbidden The world record for the 100% No RNG Manip You'll be happy to know that these players I personally can't play card This run requires unlocking all possible 689 are 11 people that have submitted No RNG Manip Interestingly there is one person of 201 hours. I thought manipulating Next we got Gran Turismo 4 on the a racing game to be on this list but here we are... up to 230 hours, 35 minutes, 51 seconds. As you between 4 different people. Since twitch, the hasn't figured out something as simple as storing we unfortunately only have about 30 minutes Even if you assume each player spent that would still come out to over 57 hours per of doing a roadtrip for 9 and a half days Up next we have Hyrule Warriors: Definitive Zelda themed hack and slash. This is There is a segmented 100% category on speedrun.com Yes, this is segmented. This means players can sessions as possible. This may not be a speedrun committing to the documentation of a long game's The world record holder, Evanmrob, has which spans across 84 different videos. can also check out 2nd place's 564 hour time with Alright, for anyone who is even half you may have been waiting for this one. Ocean is a 2003 RPG on the Gamecube and has You see it's standard 'New Game' category is only you will notice the record is around a That may sound scary, but believe it or not: The length of this run primarily the Shampoo. It takes exactly 2 weeks or 336 hours What makes this run a little bit longer is that Since this is a card card-based RPG, frequent Luckily Baffan, who has been the has routed out the game so that you are truly This allows you to pretty much go about the Just because you don't play during the entire Besides having to keep this game on for two in the game that you can unintentionally skip. And since Twitch is such a Baffan has also previously been temporarily when he left his game idle one night to sleep. While Baffan held the record in the category demolished Baffan's record by nearly 50 mins While Baffan has officially retired from time down by over 17 hours over the span So Baten Kaitos is the longest But... on speedrun.com I believe it or not that surprisingly clocks in 190 hours longer Spider: Rite of the Shrouded Moon is and I'll get it out of the way right now that this Warriors, this is segmented for another reason. determine whether it should be raining or not in time. It also uses this information to gather Normally in-game there are sections that or time of day in order to get to the "No Time Manipulation"...doesn't manipulate time. year ahead of time and started the game a new moon. They have a Google spreadsheet Snowfats will tell you straight up this run as these video recordings that add up of different sections of the game. While interesting as this seems to officially be the So there you go. Some people like runs they others may like runs a bit and then there's the small extreme crowd that While some of these runs may not be as a fraction of the time, the simple factor of I think makes these long runs just as impressive. about? Let me know in the comments During the making of this video I have so I really hope that the content has been just my story-driven content, stay tuned, I