Transcriber: Glenny Lapaix When I was in high school, my mom asked me to order a pizza I looked up the number and promptly handed the phone I was too shy to talk to a stranger. Fast-forward to college my first time away from my small town. I spent the first several weeks too homesick to partake The one frat party I did attend I wanted to trade in my books, and head back home to my small town. The confident behaviors I needed were not yet available. And when I looked around walking around me on campus, heads held high, pursuing a dream I wanted that kind of confidence too. But my behaviors did not align Crying in my dorm room, not showing up for class because I was worried these were not going to lead me So all I knew was that I needed to change. Research tells us that in order you need to not start with the attitudes, but with the behaviors When people can see themselves they then begin to act differently. So the questions for me were, "Who am I?" "Who do I want to become?" and "How does this person The answers were that I wanted one that meant something, And for me, that was defined as a career In order to achieve this goal, And I did. Because 13 years later, I became of a Triple-A baseball team (Cheers) Thank you. (Applause) I also went on to host where I've interviewed an industry that's over 80% male And time after time, that the number one skill they've improved in order to earn their spot is confidence. They, like me, did not possess to increase their level They had to work on the behaviors in order to propel their career forward. So I'm here today to share with you six behaviors you can start today Why is it important Well, think of this: How would you behave if you were 10 times more confident? Number one, count yourself in. I spoke with a woman about her first time at a nationally televised basketball game. She was shaking in her heels, nerves overtaking her until she heard "We'll be on in five, And she performed with excellence. The nerves melted away. She's an athlete, a former basketball by the clock. And the tactic remained true. Counting will get you started, I have used this technique. I've had more uncomfortable but one I'll share with you today. I vividly remember standing 45 minutes before game time, looking at the opposing manager the wrong color uniform. I wanted to turn and run back up But instead, faced him head-on, and I said in my mind, And I started walking towards him. And when I arrived, we had about his team wearing Yes, I had to ask these grown men It was so awkward. But when I asked myself, The answer was that I'm a person for what I believe, what is right Counting got me started, Number two, what if you only had Give yourself 20 seconds of courage. This behavior helped me enormously when I published my podcast bold title and all, for all the world to see, hear, I vividly remember sitting holding my computer, thinking to myself, "Does it need any more edits? And I told myself, "Emily, And I hit "Publish," and it was done. And guess what? I kept breathing, And the podcast grew All because of 20 seconds of courage. Number three, take a seat at the table. Not metaphorically speaking; actually, take a seat at the table. I spoke with a woman who represents and she told me a story She noticed women waiting waiting for the seats to be filled. And worse yet, she was doing it too. In order to become the more confident she needed to go in, sit down, That started with one simple action: Taking a seat at the table. Number four, cheer for other They say that women will pull up What if you didn't? What if you extended a hand back What if you celebrated rather than feeling sorry accepting the accolades? Confident people celebrate the success Think of this great quote "Good for her, not for me." It turns that pit in your stomach into "Yes! Good for her! Not for me." This is her celebration, not mine. And when my time comes, isn't it going to be great to have Wins are so much better Join in; cheer someone else on. Here's number four in action: Recently, a woman was promoted of a major sports league. The offer to interview came after her public celebration to the newly named Confident people support Cheer for someone else's success. Number five, bolster your through your already What are you really good at? What is easier today What is your most proud accomplishment? Answer those questions. Those answers are Confidence is born and already achieved. Recently, a woman I interviewed was going after a big, Before she went in to pitch to her boss, she reviewed her current job description, made notes of her accolades and then was prepared of the success she had in the past. She got the promotion. Use your prior success And number six, celebrate constantly. How often do we reach our goals When we do this, the recollection How can we confidently move forward or worse yet, link that accomplishment to stress? Find ways to celebrate like creating a highlight reel of your most proud accomplishments. Take your team out for celebratory drinks Buy yourself a massage when you reach your personal goals. It doesn't matter how you celebrate; This will create a marker in your brain that led to success in the first place. I've come a long way from the girl to the woman who became GM started a podcast All because I made the decision And I hope you do too. Because how many runs could you score Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)