Hello World! Welcome to Kofu. It's the smallest town in Tottori, which is the least populated prefecture Population: two thousand five hundred. And really, it's no different than other rural areas across Japan. Decades ago the population peaked, and has been on a slow decline ever since. The point of filming in Kofu was to try and get a sense for what Japanese town is like. As such, I spent a week staying in Kofu, talking with locals, to delivery drivers, to the non-profit that deals with abandoned homes. As usual, my part-time producer sister-in-law Akko joined me for the trip. The goal of Akko and I was to try and talk to as many locals as possible. While driving around Kofu I scanned the area for potential victims... I mean interviewees, and I spotted So I parked the car on the side Okay, so this would be a good time to explain where Kofu is located Yonago is a 30 minute If you were paying attention that Kofu has a population of 2,500. This is tiny in comparison to Yonago with 145,000. This is why many workers on a daily basis. By car is the primary way And let me give you a brief everything is. The dominant presence across although technically it's As the summit gets lower and the collapsed stones and rocks So these channels were built as safely as possible. Over here's the small ski hill, with the big hotel and onsen. Then we have the Suntory water factory. And this is the first of two dams, this one for farming purposes. And this second one is for power All throughout Kofu you'll find rice terraces and little clusters of homes. And over here is the town centre with the train station. Down the road to 9 portion of And up the road this way's the grades and then the interchange to the highway, with a road side station And, where we're filming right now, is right over here. They're a bit hard to see, but in the pond, there are koi fish. Parting ways, we headed back towards the town centre that I can only assume It made me think that the postmaster As it was Sunday so we couldn't see inside. Just down the street from the post office one of the many schools It's a beautiful wood built school into a community It also acted as a nice starting off that were quite excited Since it was a lovely day, I told them I'd get a few shots of them from the drone It really was a gorgeous day for a ride. If you're not familiar these fields covered And if you look at the dark green those are Japanese These clusters were almost always a result of broadleaved trees This is in fact a problem are on the rise in Japan, So moving on... After exploring the town some more, we visited yet Fortunately, brewed us a couple cups of coffee. This is what's considered a U-turn. It's where a rural person moves to the city, and at a later stage in life, make a U turn and heads right back to where they were from. The majority of people moving to rural areas are in fact U-turners, and the main reason for them with three out of every four U-turners living with their family. So Mr. Coffee is a very So Mr. Coffee -- real name Endo-san -- featured on a Tottori relocation website. Kofu, in fact, has a relocation program for not only moving into old residences, but also for setting up new businesses. With that in mind, the cost of doing business For those of you that don't know the value of YEN, that 6,000 yen a month rent is like 40 US dollars at the current exchange rate. However, he does have to pay for utilities, which are many times more than his rent. Although, it's still incredibly cheap. Leaving the classroom-turned-roaster, I continued my journey to drive And something I noticed again, and again, the homes This seemed unlike North America, spaced out from one another, with each one set on the edge of its fields. Whereas in Kofu, all the homes would be squished together, you'd find fields I'm sure there are many pros but here is what I thought of. In the cluster system, there's less privacy Even though you're in a rural area, you have to worry about The houses are still huge to rural North America, you're In the cluster system, you're which means it's easy to get together But it can also mean that it's And with the cluster system, it's easier to get services. For example, a bus can have a single stop and it would be accessible to the dozens or hundreds of households. Parks can also be within walking or biking distance. Utilities would be more efficient to supply to all the homes In terms of service, For me personally, for an everyday home, I would rather live one that is far away from everyone, but what do you think? Despite the homes being clustered together, isn't enough to warrant He's talking about the very handy, We met up with it at city hall, where it was making a lunch time Among the items available were fresh fresh sandwiches, and freshly baked bread. We found out that the visit to city hall doesn't Luckily, we were invited to follow along with him the first one going back to change up his stock. In case you don't have I'll let you know what he picked up. He just grabbed some fish, and now he's getting some tofu. I'm going to say that's strawberries, followed by a head of lettuce. And then he went behind the counter to pick up another pack of strawberries, perhaps a request from a customer? I have to respect the hustle in his step, because I wouldn't to service his senior customers, but then I remembered this. So the little grocery truck, packed to the brim goes to each, where a mobile grocery store is unpacked. If you look at the setup, the truck is parked The lady brought her own basket which is cleverly known in Japan What was immediately apparent to me variety of food than I would have from such a little truck. And there were a lot of fresh options, from apples and tofu, to fish and milk. This customer brought a list with her On her list were sausages, tofu, and... And garbage bags, milk, chou a la creme, bananas, mayonnaise.... and a hat? He really can fit a lot in there, can't he? And with those parting words, upon dozens of other customers Clearly on a different day with great weather, to visit with the mayor. If you ask any local what's special about the town, it's the water! So in my imagination, would flow down and townspeople would drink it straight from the streams Delicious. For those of you that have a good memory, Akko's lie when she said Because she very much as we investigated it's And we even saw locals Akko's lies aside, we did find what appeared to be I wanted to fill up my water bottle but Akko didn't But what was definitely not as this was private land. Anyway... Yeah, so what he's describing is pumped storage hydropower. When there's extra solar capacity, they'll use it to pump the water on the other side of the mountain, they'll generate it So the hydroelectric dam and Suntory plant are the two big money makers for the city of Kofu. Now if you travel around Kofu, and throw the drone up in the air, after rice field, after rice field. When I filmed this at the end of May, they were just starting I can only imagine how lovely as it grows to a sea of green into waves of golden rice. So I asked if rice farming was a major Speaking of existing, that a community centre exists And the mayor said there were 40 of them! So I wanted to know why The previous town hall was 62 years old and had not been earthquake proofed, so in 2020 it was rebuilt. On top of being used for administration, it will also act as a disaster The new building is supposed to reduce expenses and maintenance costs. But how was it funded? Something that was hard not to notice across the river from the new town hall. Because of the declining population it didn't make sense to have schools So they merged schools, until the final format of a single school Although just to confuse things, while the school is under the students are located in two buildings, this newly built and the older one down the road that serves grades 1 through 5. Now we previously showed one that houses a coffee roaster and the other a community health centre. But we haven't shown you the one that has That's because on the day we went However, the new school housing grades 6 to 9 was very much open and the principal personally For privacy purposes, but trust me, they do have students. Not being able to finish the challenge we were kicked out. Now, knowing that some parts of town or 6 miles away we went to see how students got to school every day. Interestingly, not only does he drive the buses, but he also operates the taxis as well. He said this taxi and bus but this community-based approach While the taxi and bus system works for students in the lower grades, when it comes to high school, is by train. If you're living in rural North America, you may be wondering drive to school. The legal age of getting an so most students wouldn't be able even if there were parking spots. So commuting to high school by train, foot, and bike. And on the train, you'll mostly find high school students. Although I should mention that parents do give their children rides Workers would usually commute especially since So while there is a train station in Kofu, as there is in many small towns in Japan, trains aren't the primary means of transportation Now the train station is what I would consider the heart of the town. Looking out over A bit lower down And across from it, a Shinto shrine. You'll find many kinds of shops, businesses and like a police station, post office and bank, hairdresser, as well as a care home, fire station, and disaster relief center. Right here is what I think would have been but more and more For example, the big grocery store has moved down the road near the highway interchange, along with the Lawson convenience store, coin laundry and cafe. I think this is because most people and while this main strip is very walkable driving and parking a car isn't as easy. Off this bigger road, there's easier to quickly There's also the road side station that sells a lot of local products So I think that if anyone, local or not, wants to get fuelled up on food, or gas, this area by the interchange And if you're a local farmer it's also the spot to do it. So, what would you do if you in fact To find out, in immigration and relocation. But as a condition they made us take this picture, so here you go! Interestingly, all 4 members of the relocation team that we met with today I guess who better to guide you to making a big move And here's the house we'll be touring today. While the fixtures were a few decades old, everything was nice and tidy, and the house even came with appliances. Typically, when you rent a place in Japan, yes your own lights, fridge, washing machine, and so on. So to have a lot of these little things makes moving in a lot easier. On the bottom floor there were 2 rooms in addition And up the stairs there were also 2 rooms. So this is what in Japan would be Fortunately, the relocation team has already arranged While the owner wants to sell year long rentals in other homes And they've even set up a kind of right in town, where potential immigrants can rent a fully furnished home or even up to 3 months. First off, this house is big. On the ground floor, there's plus two tatami rooms. Over in the kitchen they even have an IH stove. You have your washing machine, laundry / hand wash sink, Of course a toilet, There's an internal garden, not much to look at. Up the stairs we find another 3 rooms. One's a tatami, the other is used for drying clothes, and the last is at the front of the house where I'm assuming Through the front window on the main strip of town. For the first 3 nights, it's 2,000 yen a day and then after that it's 1,000 yen a day. So basically 30,000 yen a month, All in all, you can call it 4 rooms, or 6 rooms, but however you slice it, I don't think you're going to have space problems Speaking with the NPO, they have similar set ups So if you're serious about relocating, you can spend a few weeks in one town, a few weeks in another, and a few weeks in another one, figuring out which town is best for you. So we know that the town is aging and we've seen that they and easy to do trial stays with, but we also wanted to know if they had any other programs And to be clear, through the national health care system, every new mother will be given 500,000 yen to offset the cost of giving birth. That's roughly so in effect medical costs So what the town of Kofu is offering per each extra child really is bonus money. And we didn't even talk about which many rural towns have. For example, if you meet the criteria, you can get money if you move from Tokyo or you can get money to buy and renovate an empty home And I can't forget the free veggies. but usually relocation subsidies are tied but usually relocation subsidies are tied to promises that you'll live in the area for at least 5 years. In order to make the big move, to half a decade, people need to be able to make a living in town. So the next question we had for being done to make the town I think jobs are always going to be a tough problem but the one thing that is that they seem very forward thinking and are willing and ready to accommodate the needs of its townspeople, both current and new. I realize that I'm a YouTuber to put their best foot forward But on the same note, I saw how into their community and feel like but the systems and political to make things happen. Now I know the vast wouldn't be able to move to Kofu. But I suspect a few of you, after watching this, are thinking about visiting. So how's tourism for the town going? And I'd fully agree. There is gorgeous scenery all over town, with the most majestic piece of nature But all the scenery is free to see and there's little However, I'm sure they'd be happy to see you visit nonetheless. Thanks for watching, see you next time, peace. What's a small town like