The internet is a brilliant place to learn piano. basic music theory and download any kind of sheet just playing purely for fun, then you arguably want to progress to more complicated pieces, I Hi! I'm Jazer! In this video, I want to share with will not only share with you what they are, I them. I will count them down from number 5 to to find out what number 1 is. Before we get this channel so you stay in touch with more of on the list is &quot;Poor Technique&quot;. And within poor talk about. The first thing is tension. sometimes, they look like they're lifting You know, sort of have this huge tension in their you can also hear it in their playing. And I have huge empathy for this tension problem. highly complex tasks. Right you have 10 fingers there's 10 different apps that are running at the make sense of everything and make everything work. focused on so many different things. you could tensing your arm when you don't need to be. The finger independence. Try and exercise with me please hold down every note in the C position to be playing your thumb 8 times but keep And move on to the next finger but Next one. And then you can try that also Now how did you go with that exercise? If that it probably means you don't have as much finger independence is really important in piano playing. playing piano it's a highly complex task and it's And you need each app to do its thing so that example, a weak finger (for example the 4th often enough finger independence it's going to start to for example, the 5th or the 3rd when the is an interesting thing to talk about because it becomes ingrained into your subconscious. wanting to get brilliant technique It takes years of training. I've been playing to refine my technique every day. But here I have 3 things for you. First thing would be Not like this. Okay slightly curved. Second thing is to lower hand on the white keys and that should be where your wrist is. So not So meaty part on the white keys and just move keyboard so when you're playing your music. Try Everything as close to the keyboard as possible, do but we should always try to do it. Number 4 So when I see self-taught rhythm or tempo is really unregulated. For Something like that you know when it's supposed always playing by themselves and they don't sometimes they don't realize parts that they are thing that was saying before if you continually suddenly that becomes your subconscious behavior. that. So, it's so important to get that counting What are some solutions to help yourself keep of mine and many piano teachers. Okay, you an electronic one or also maybe even a watch. am so in love with. I'll just show you what that is something that helps you to keep time. So you it clicks at a very slow tempo. And all the way for example, what would be good to do as is to regularly practice with metronome Now recently I've had the great pleasure of And it's been such a delight because I think ridiculously higher level. Instead of hearing the So I do a double tap and right now as can hear it in the microphone as well. I can It's just wonderful. I'm actually going to do so helpful for pianists. So stay tuned for those. when we talk about sight reading and self-taught suffer in sight reading because they use something dislike Synthesia because it doesn't teach people good points and also some bad points. The bad overly reliant on this visual representation you never really learn to read these black this is how 99% of the world communicates with really teach you fingerings. So you never really thing about Synthesia is that it gives you a needing to be great at reading sheet music. It's don't want to wait, you know, years before you can quickly. And from a motivational standpoint, I pieces that we're passionate about. You know, lessons when, for example, if you have a teacher like reading and playing. You know, you can feel lessons. You just sometimes want to play what you for that giving a quick solution to help people to Synthesia does have its drawbacks. Okay learning of your piano playing journey. Sometimes I for years are sort of like people that can speak It feels like they can get by but they just have past a certain level. So if you never learn really great at piano playing. And then you'll up. And you're sort of wondering &quot;Well, why can't music and then when you go &quot;Oh, so you think now when you have to go from this level all the Oh and this is D...&quot; It becomes a really.. back to level zero. So it's kind of like the can speak really well but doesn't know how to to level zero and learn A B C D. It can be a is to always read a little bit of music even if day. Number 2 on the list is &quot;Poor Fingering&quot;. first playing is how I see a lot of self-taught playing. I want you to see if you can spot any this... Playing two is this. Did you spot any differences? No, the second time of playing, I was using much smarter and more efficient fingering that easier to play. In the first playing which Do you see this, this kind of... If you were to play piano for longer, you'll know just not a smart way of using your hand. It's that way you have enough fingers. So it's these little things that I think when fingering instructions. Piano playing, it sort further because you don't know how to use your to either buy or download scores with fingerings Because fingerings are usually written by editors to plan how to use your hand as efficiently as number one is &quot;Poor Practicing Methods&quot;. And wrong way and they take ages to learn a piece is a huge underlying message really. In I am very interested in almost kind of hijacking we can all save time. When I look at students people practice in a way that isn't optimal and for you. If something that would usually take you have today 10 minutes to practice and I want you how would you do it? Firstly, I want to say too. I always say to my students, what can take it in 10 minutes or less. Not because I a better way of practicingT there are many, many tons of ways to practice wrongly but I want for practicing correctly. One of the ways to in smaller sections and repeat that for seven If I were a beginner learning this piece, by essentially already forgotten what my hands much better way of practice is to focus, for two... three... And I usually call it out myself, and so on, and so forth. And when you that in that seventh time you're not actually It sort of is happening on autopilot. And how of practice. Right, the whole idea of practicing subconscious. And you don't have to consciously now think about something else which is to section is to practice correctly. And one way sections and repeat it for seven times. We have 5 things can you relate to the most? Please the comments that you write. Hope you have fun