Many of us think Flying is a great way to up stuck on the tarmac waiting for takeoff. While you're sitting there wondering if it you might notice a little triangular sticker Now, if you've never noticed the stickers, Only four windows on each plane are marked Usually red or black, the decals are just them, but easy enough to miss if you aren't. But why are they there? Is it part of a conspiracy? Are those the seats reserved for Illuminati It turns out the answer isn't quite so dramatic. If you look closely the next time you're on line up with the front and back edges of the This comes in handy whenever the flight crew sure the flaps are functioning properly. The sticker is there so that the flight attendants You wouldn't want them having to climb over would you? Flight attendants have a stressful job that Sure, free flights to exotic locations might hotel isn't exactly a dream vacation. You know, planes are filled with all sorts have noticed. They're like a giant aluminum Where's Here's five more aircraft features you might Number One: Hidden Sleeping Compartments but fastest can be a relative term. If you've ever sat through a fourteen-hour doesn't even begin to cover it. Even when your flight isn't that insanely in the air for more than a few hours. The same is true for the pilots and flight compartment where its exhausted crew can catch The exact placement of the room varies, but a small windowless compartment directly above The size and design can vary wildly from airline with bunks, to partitioned sleeping compartments. Most feature some degree of soundproofing, cabinets. A few higher-end aircraft even come complete systems. The bunk room is usually accessible from a the aircraft's cockpit. And when I call these rooms hidden, I mean Typically, the entrance is concealed behind some take camouflage a step further. The Boeing 773, for example, hides the hatch Talk about a commitment to secrecy. Forget what I said earlier, are we sure the Larger planes can feature up to ten bunks, above the cockpit. These cabins can be quite a bit roomier than Some airlines even offer their pilots amenities, bathroom. Talk about flying in style. Number two: Loops on the wings triangles earlier, did you happen to spare If you're flying in a jet made by Airbus, loops sticking up from the otherwise smooth, Clearly it was put there for a reason, but Well, you're probably aware of those inflatable They're used to evacuate quickly in the They also add a bit of fun to air disasters, than an intended function. The thing is, some of the engineers at Airbus A plane's wings need to be smooth so that pretty difficult to stand on. This is especially true if the wings are wet, make a water landing. Nobody wants to escape injury from a plane needed to be done. Their solution was a brilliant display of A rope. An emergency escape rope is secured to the other. A second rope would then be attached to the Thanks to this fabulous technological breakthrough, an unfortunate tumble down the aircraft's Number Three: Holes in the Windows plane's wings, did you happen to pay much from? Look closely at the bottom, and you'll notice It's pretty small, so you might not have forms around it. Airliners need to maintain internal pressure at high altitudes. With that in mind, a hole in the windows might It turns out though, the opposite is actually This tiny opening is known as a breather hole It might not appear so at first glance, but three panes of glass, layered on top of each The innermost pane is called the scratch pane damaging the other two. The outer layer bears the bulk of the pressure, This creates a small pocket of air inside the cabin and the space between the panes. This reduces the amount of force the glass of failure. If only holes made my shirt more stable, I'd Yeah, I don't know what that means either. Number four: the hidden handrail in hopes of spotting their covert naptimes, their hands running along the bottom of the somebody's gum, or something. That might seem like an odd thing to do, but spot they're holding on to. Most airliners flying today feature a handrail Their primary function is so that the crew And that's a good thing, because if passengers quickly enough, imagine how they'd feel when These handrails also provide an alternative have to get up to use the restroom. I mean, don't you just hate when that happens? Coach is cramped enough without someone's Ah hem, 'scuse me. Speaking of limited room, our next entry might Number five: a button to adjust your armrest air travel is the lack of space. Even if you aren't particularly tall, you've If you are particularly tall, then get ready tray table and banging your shins on the chair So, what can you do about this shortage of Well, that depends on where you're sitting. If you're in the window seat, you'll just consolation prize. If you're in the middle seat, well, you're worst of both worlds. That's right middle seat passengers, you're having people brush past you whenever they Look on the bright side, as we try to do here, your wallet stolen in the terminal to get Congratulations. However, if you're in the aisle seat, I've You know that uncomfortable little armrest That little bit of plastic that digs into freely? You probably assume that it was never intended would take some serious work with a wrench It turns out that's not the case. Feel around on the bottom of the armrest, hinge. Press it, and you're free to move that pesky This gives you plenty of room to move around, get your bag from the overhead compartment So, are there any special features I missed Let me know in the comments! And hey, if you learned something new today, a friend! And here are some other videos I think you'll Just click to the left or right, and remember: