Welcome to another Mathologer video okay and Aaron Prince for your very funny comments on right? It's these comments that inspired this be looking at for the rest of this video. Like it? question since primary school right? 1 2 4 8 16 32. Right? Well, not necessarily. Since the be something totally different. Have a look at First just one dot, then two, then three four possible ways. There and let's count the number there is just one region. Next there are two Well, just count and you'll find that the next well, maybe not, at least some of you will already previously. It's an absolute classic and an What this shows is that when it comes to never jump to conclusions. Anyway if the rule is and we can really kill this question by saying this sequence is 2 to the power of n. If on the then the killing formula is surprisingly by the mathematicians Bjorn Poonen and Michael Ooh, scary. If you're interested in the details, For hundreds of years another seemingly very mathematical mega stars like Euler night and led to some of the absolute That insomnia-inducing question and some of those Well, that was pretty, right? But what actually animation of the eight different ways of writing are again very nice. Now how many different positive integer like this? Obviously not So let's list the different partitions for small There, that's the partitions for the Obviously there's only one For two there are two ways, just two and one and as we've already seen there are exactly Okay, one, two, four, eight so obviously the you? Well, let me show you a very ingenious At the bottom there are four blocks that we are chopping up. Notice that there there let me show you what happens when we can you see it? Of course you can. The corresponds to the different ways of But how many ways are there of doing that? two possibilities for each gap. And there times two times two is two to the power So I didn't trick you, unless I tricked Looks are not deceiving one two four, two times 2 times 2 times 2 is equal to 16 there is 2 to the power of n minus 1 ways of did you enjoy this warm-up exercise? Okay time for the killer question. Look Did it bother you that there's a There two plus one and one plus two they're count these two partitions as different, then the What about the partitions of four? Okay get rid partitions we end up with only five really There, so how to think about this refined list of But quick and dirty you can think of the are some sort of super duper self-similar fractal numbers. Well okay a bit click-baity but anyway. partitions reveals some patterns that repeat over absolutely immense iceberg of complex patterns. connections to other parts of mathematics computer capturing the hidden patterns in the numbers of and five partitions what's next? Any guesses? You patterns that fit so far but it's definitely So let's throw in a couple more numbers. What's The plot thickens. Still got your guess ready? 11. Aha can you see it now? Well 2 3 5 7 11 are is sort of an honorary prime. So what's the next so hard was it? Well, not so fast. I hate to break 15. Damn okay so there goes our prime numbers if we add in more of the sequence? Anything there he is batman or superman or maths man. the guy with the towel hat. Leonard Euler first to really investigate partitions and Euler discovered some truly amazing Want to see some of Euler's genius again? At first when only these four numbers were visible two three five that's also the start of that right? One plus two is three two plus three that one in front that's the partition number for a partition number to zero what partition number did you decide on? My bet is that you chose well the official choice and makes for an even longer Okay, let's intone the Fibonacci mantra: three plus two is five, five plus three is eight, but we can save things by subtracting the very minus one is seven. So what i'm saying is that always have to add the last number and the but then you also have to always subtract the 7 plus 5 that's 12 minus 1 is 11 works. Next 11 Well, it's not all lost yet. Let's just adjust our beginning. There now it works. 11 plus 7 minus 2 minus 1 is 22 works. 22 plus 15 that's 37 minus 5 22 yeah, that's 42 works again. We definitely seem Is that it? Is that the real rule? What okay 56 plus 42 minus 15 minus 7 is 76, one how we're going to fix things right? We simply most likely we just keep shifting until we plus or minus to adjust at the end and repeat. turns out to be exactly what happens. Overall you Also it's always two pluses followed by two Well that's great but for this pattern calculating a partition number we don't know yet advance how exactly those pluses and minuses are Okay so to calculate a partition number we add number then we minus the fifth large number. then we add the twelfths last number and so on. numbers for the pluses and minuses that we have going to end? Soon promise :) anyway here At first glance the sequence of numbers looks just after staring at this sequence for a minute or remarkable. Actually maybe give this a go. Stop pattern. I'll wait. Want a hint? Yes? Well, ponder What are those differences? Well the here the difference is three. Okay Can you see the pattern? No? No problem? Let You can all see the pattern now right? There has trouble with this pattern should change seven nine and so on that's the odd numbers. How How come these two intertwined primary school get to that. Anyway using these two interleaved of position numbers forever. For example the is 7 and so the next position number is 70 plus Well the next green odd number is 15 and so the 92. Patterns within patterns within patterns. started drilling into the why. To summarize here's thanks to the genius of my Leonard Euler. Make up a row of squares We'll write the partition numbers onto these Then we make up a second row of squares that squares we label with the pluses and minuses. and then we calculate one partition number we've already calculated. So the next one is Two plus one is three. Three plus two is five and so on. There it's like a machine So challenge for the coding experts among you: compute the 666th partition number. As I already mentioned the theory of partitions in and outside mathematics. Just as an example is established by slightly tweaking Euler's Let me explain. The tweaked machine works exactly entry up there increases by one every time we Okay line up again now plus 1 as usual. Now Okay 2 plus 1 is 3. Okay counter goes up again Okay three plus four is seven. Okay four Have a look at the sequence produced: one three twelve then down to eight again and so on. This But believe it or not there is a beautiful take the value of the counter in this case 12 six and twelve that's all the factors of twelve. three plus three is six plus four is ten plus There 28 in the output of the machine at this there is the sequence of the factor sums of the is that. Why should writing a number as a sum of factors. Marvellous. Also just think about it. the least number of factors? The least number has only two factors, the number itself and Well what this means is that we can use this it to check whether a number is prime. How? Well, number we are interested in. Then our number is is one greater than our number. Here's an example. or not seven is prime? So spool back to when the eight so one greater than the counter and so seven Okay eight in the counter is not prime because 9 it's not prime because of the is prime because the output is 12. One even Euler himself couldn't believe his eyes when between prime numbers and partitions. Just imagine amazing as this. Can you imagine the aha moment? machine for you and sadly won't have the time to but as usual for the super keen among you i've can further explore this connection and some of Okay so we saw that it's easy to calculate the the simple orange green pattern and of course away. Even more so as a real maths pro he number sequence is just the sequence of the Pentagonal numbers. Well you may not realize and the square numbers. Here are the So the triangular numbers are just the numbers of In fact we've already encountered these these numbers are just the different 1 example the triangular number 15 is just right? Just last video we had it. So let's the nth triangular number. The number of so the nth triangular number is just n times n would probably already have committed this As I said triangular numbers, tick. What 4 9 16 and so on. Finally pentagonal numbers. the nth pentgonal number. We're really on a roll that's what we're doing here on Mathologer. Okay that's the formula for the But wait who forgot why we are interested in these Because they are supposed to be the key to the And sure enough there they are. Amazing right. What do pentagons have to do with partitions? And why do we get only half the numbers? What Well the other numbers is what you get when you Okay let's check. Plug in minus one autopilot four divided by two, yep that's the two that fills Now plugging in minus two we get seven. You can the keen among you. Use this formula to prove that the simple pattern that we discovered earlier. And a really easy fun challenge: calculate the call the pink numbers the pentagonal numbers So how are you enjoying this topic so far? In partition number machine works, why the pentagonal we'll actually have to look into the nature of the guts of things let me quickly tell you a little I've mentioned Ramanujan at the very Well as we've seen there is a nice pentagonal and minuses. So what about a nice formula for the turns out to be a real killer. And that it is Basically to get the growth rule for the partition the Fibonacci numbers. There the Fibonacci growth rule infinitely often. I already derived in previous videos and it looks like this. Plug in plug in one it spits out the That's already pretty complicated and amazing. Now more amazing and you get the formula you don't have to imagine anything let me Again plug in zero it spits out one plug in one this is a totally insane formula it's not even Also it's swarming with pi's e's i's infinity And this formula is due to Ramanujan. Well not it together with hardy when he was living in the mathematician Rademacher 20 years later. amazing formula in this video. Hopefully another of the incredible power of this formula by tiny part of it can do. To get to this tiny Not much left right? Now differentiate and in terms of exponential functions. Don't worry Throw away the last three small terms and you're much either so let's throw that away too. And so throwing away and simplifying what's left is this function that is still amazingly accurate. Let Okay on top is the actual function that spits is our Ramanujan approximation. Actually come to way that is a refinement of the Fibonacci growth a fairly good approximation to p(n) right? Not a bad fit but see what happens when indistinguishable at this magnification. Just to Ramanujan's simple formula captures our partition there. There huge difference. Just for emphasis times as large as the partition function. So while tracks incredibly well forever and ever. Really But if you think that this formula is the final think again. Even today we still discover many new and since the plan is to keep making i'm pretty sure i'll talk about some of these Now for the why. To understand why those have to have a look at integer partitions. In fact visual way, in terms of dots. Okay here again is pentagonal number 35. Let's deform this array of array as a graphical representation of a special 8 in the second and so on. 35 is 9 plus 8 plus general we can represent any of the partitions Since the order of the summands doesn't matter dots from largest to smallest going from top are usually called Ferrers diagrams named That him Norman Ferrers who apart from being chancellors of Cambridge university. Here are It may already have occurred to you that there as a partition if we consider it made up of dots in the first column 6 in the second and Very interesting isn't it. So there's partitions of a number established by these of other beautiful relationships Finding and exploiting these hidden relationships applications in maths and elsewhere. I'll now discovered by Euler and which is the key to our relationship is called Euler's pentagonal number we'll focus on the default interpretation of for the rest of this video forget about the Okay I'll call a partition even if it contains an contains an odd number of summands the example odd. The pentagonal number theorem focuses of a number that consist of distinct summands. In Ferrers diagrams all of whose rows are of is not distinct because the fives and the ones without repetitions a distinct one. There the and of course the pentagonal partition Okay now Euler proved that in general the integer is equal to the number of odd distinct even distinct partitions of an integer is But there are exceptions to this rule. And those partitioning is pentagonal. Let's have a closer Okay we are focusing on the partitions without partitions with repeated summands, which is the odd partitions in red and the even ones in be the same number of odd distinct partitions as the short list half the cases are of this type. Let's throw these away and focus on the pentagonal numbers and they are. So let's extend really works out. The numbers of odd and evens And how exactly these differences pan out that go with the pentagonal numbers. Remember red then green there's a plus and if there Another way of expressing this is to say that for odd and even distinct partitions is zero. Right? zero obviously. Unless the integer is one of the is one if the pentagonal number comes with a Okay but now for the why. Well there's a pentagonal number theorem that the American 1881. It's been called the first serious by some very snobbish or Here's one of our distinct partitions. First the bottom row. Then there is the diagonal. and then it continues at 45 degrees So in this case the diagonal is is three dots long. Here two more examples. than the diagonal and in the third Now we'll transform these partitions according to shorter than the bottom as in the top diagram then If the diagonal is not shorter then we make the bottom into Three observations. First we only move dots so of the same number. Second the transformation So it turns even partitions into odd partitions dealing with distinct partitions. Okay now let's Notice that in the bottom example the diagonal and rule still applies. Now let's transform. What was the diagonal. Well the diagonal is now shorter In the top example the diagonal is not shorter Can you see what happened. No? Well starting with any distinct partition, gets us back to the partition we started with. partitions of a certain number into pairs. Every and one odd partition on the right and these two And the existence of such a pairing implies that most integers, then there are exactly as many And this is exactly what we wanted types of exceptions. Where would you Well there was this case where the diagonal if you think about it for a second that's really Actually if as in this example there's a big and the diagonal having a point in common is this difference in lengths and see what happens. There no problem. What about this? The diagonal is Shorten the bottom one more time okay. shorter than the bottom. Anyway Aha there's the problem. The resulting and so is no longer distinct. This Shorten the bottom one more time. Now the diagonal no longer shorter the bottom moves. Ooh that diagonal being of equal lengths is the second time two types we've just encountered are all there is. again. And nice nice nice the second time of and now it would be great if those other numbers of the second type. And they do. Let's We start with a pentagonal diagram and then Right this is going the other way as we did points, okay 15. Great now i'll leave it as an that the number of dots in these special Ferrers And this completes the proof of the pentagonal Again for numbers that are not pentagonal there are an equal amount of odd and even distinct exception to the pairing the pentagonal partition of odd and even distinct partitions is one or odd or even. Okay at this point you're probably brains are about to explode and you are just happy number theorem now somehow translates into Euler's for the super keen among you let me at least on one particular instance of the recursion now is a good time to steel yourself by taking then rejoin me for the final dash up the serious Or if you've seen enough for now, skip straight to Okay, so you really want to find out Very good I'm proud of you. So let's focus There, in symbols the numbers that There, p(1), the first partition number, on. And these numbers are supposedly connected minus minus plus. Okay so how does this identity Ready for our final mathematical magic trick for So let's take 13 dots, split those 13 dots into size six and one of size seven. Six plus seven is two plus two plus one plus one doesn't have to plus two plus one plus one and pick a distinct There that one on the right is Now we'll do some more ingenious transforming bottom rows to the respective other side. Can you Right or left? What we want at the end of the another distinct one on the right. So which if the bottom row on the left is shorter it moves In this example the bottom row on the left is And yes at the end of the transformation we are and a distinct one on the right. Plus the parity unleashing the transformation on the new pair will a bit familiar right. Now this new transformation Like that right. What's super nice about this This means that there are exactly as many pairs with an even distinct partition. Always. Very use this fact? Well just follow our nose. How Well for the split into six dots on the we've been focusing on so far there are p(6) and the number of possible odd distinct partitions And so there are a total of p(6) times o(7) Now we can also split our which gives this many extra pairs So to get the number we are really after partition we simply split 13 in all possible And then the existence of our super is equal to the corresponding number of Anyway don't be scared in a moment most of what Anyway subtract everything on the right from the all comes together. Can you see it? Well Okay well euler's pentagonal number theorem tells are usually equal to zero except if we're right. At the top 13 is not a pentagonal number the numbers of odd distinct partitions And the same is true for all those There. This means that all the highlighted And now the pentagonal number theorem also tells blue brackets are all either equal to one it? So let's keep charging ahead. The bottom with zero being an even number there are no odd On the other hand e(0) is 1, counting that one 13 points on the arbitrary side. Okay the rest established earlier: two plus ones followed And that's it. We just proved that euler's machine was quite a bit of work just for checking showed you is completely general and also shows all the infinitely many partition The power and magic of Well that last dash up the summit Just in case you couldn't quite just give it another go at half speed and really I hope you enjoyed this mathematical tour de didn't work for you in the comments and ask for Anyway that's it from me for today except, as next problem for you to puzzle over. It will be and whether anybody will be What, you're still here? Amazing! Okay i might as well show you something else that the partition numbers 1 2 5 7 12, and so on, ferrers diagrams there. Focusing on the shape where the bizarre pattern in the differences Remember that yellow - green pattern. There that and the green odd numbers, 3 5 7 and so on. Here's where this intertwined pattern comes from. one two three four, and so on. Really when you look at it this way. Second, 3 5 7 9 dots, and so on. Also super pretty and isn't it? If you'd like to tell me that you leave the comment &quot;i made it to the very end&quot;.