Today I'm going to Kyoto for three days from is now in Tokyo, Kyoto has become a place where as a old capital. When you get off the shinkansen at Kyoto station, imagining a beautiful Zen gardens and temples, you may be a little buildings and office buildings around. Kyoto is Although Kyoto is a big city, it's surrounded by the trip from the city center and you are lost in popular destination for both Japanese and foreign to explore the city. The subway doesn't have much aren't well connected. Here more than any other taxis. I always underestimate the time it takes to station to catch the shinkansen back to Tokyo. and taxis takes longer than trains and it's hard the time because the temple and streets are too the charm of Kyoto through my trip footage, so you can do the same as me or the Kyoto is located in the Kansai region of Japan, north east of Osaka. From Tokyo the most common route is shinkansen and is the fastest and in 2 hours and 40 minutes by Nozomi. You can From Kansai Airport you can use JR train Haruka. JR pass or not, this is a great choice. It takes is also connecting Kansai Airport to Kyoto station less than that. The price is 2800 yen, and it takes bus runs every 20 to 30 minutes directly to Kyoto Kyoto station and the price is 1740 yen. From the best transportation for you depends on where Shinkansen is connecting Shin Osaka Station and have JR Pass , you can use shinkansen, Hikari can use this shinkansen, but otherwise you can JR's Shin Kaisoku. It runs every 15 minutes or so and It takes 28 minutes from Osaka Station to Kyoto lines. Hankyu is connecting Osaka's Umeda Station so it takes more time than JR, but Hankyu line's Umeda station is located right in front of the JR Osaka station and Kawaramachi you can walk to the major tourist destination of taking Hankyu. For the tourist area of the Kyoto convenient depends on where you're going in Kyoto. and it takes you to the station in the east bank destination gathers. From Yodoyabashi to Gion Shijo On the first floor of Kyoto Station on Karasuma for international tourists so if you want to is the place to go. Both sides of the station from Kyoto Station later in the day, it might be suitcases after you check out the hotels. This is side which is called the Hachijo exit and I'd like to look around the Kyoto city so I to head to other part of Kyoto. This one and you can pay with the ICcard, and you don't On the Karasuma side, they are in the basement. They also have bags to your hotels when you arrive. now that you explain the major area and attractions of Kyoto is surrounded by mountains and Kyoto Station is arrive here and around Kyoto Station, you is around this Kyoto Kawaramachi Station on Hankyu Line. north of Kyoto station. It says it takes 30 minutes This is the center of Kyoto and you see department It has Nishiki Market and dining out in Pontocho. is a Gion Shijo Station of Keihan and major from this city center to the mountain on the east Hokanji Temple and Kiyomizu Temple which is famous have time and see the only area for the first time to go, except the famous Kiyomizu Temple there how many small beautiful sights are hidden among it can be a long walk with some up and down The next must visit area in Kyoto is river, there are many temples and things forest and Torokko trains. It has more feel of Both Higashiyama and Arashiyama areas are good areas you can walk around and explore. There And Kyoto has a lot more place to see especially Probably the most popular site for international endless lasting red torii gates are often seen as a is very easy to access from either Kyoto Station or of different charms of temples, the famous three are located in the northwest of Kyoto city center. bus or the taxi. And along the mountain on the East Between these temples there are Tetsugaku no Michi in Japanese and it's There are tons of more places to see in Kyoto and Now that you understand the basic map Kyoto you can get around by trains or buses to get Kyoto City Bus, Kyoto Bus, Keihan Bus and JR Bus. Bus. It might help to get some map printed out station. In Kyoto you get on the bus from the door In Tokyo you pay when you get on from the front The bus ride in the city is flat rate for 230 ride more than four times it's better to get one a machine that sells the day pass. When you get on the card into the machine, and the date you use will from the driver. Otherwise you can get off with you can also use the one you get in Tokyo such as you are tired of walking after sightseeing you to the hotel. In that kind of case I recommend you stay in Kyoto. Kyoto has plenty of hotels to stay spread all over the city but the area you see The great benefit of having a hotel near Kyoto drop by and leave your luggage. My favorite area The merit of having a hotel in this area spots, and also we have plenty of place you like to walk around the city after stay in this area I recommend you to have Kyoto's a little difficult to get around because sometimes it takes time for waiting for the bus, to walk to the bus stop and once you get on the bus it might take time better to have some extra time. You might not be probably it's good idea to pick two or three spots as an option, and you can go if you have time left you need lots of walking and you might end up the street or something but I think it's important you wanted, or you ended up eating kind of touristy to the next. Since I couldn't put everything in Kyoto has so many attractions and hard to decide you an image of how to get around Kyoto when Thank you for watching. Have a