- These are the chickens for We brine for 24 hours. It's a pretty popular item. This is basic brine: water, salt, sugar, some citrus, mirepoix. We steep tea in the brine, So, we're kind of getting the Basically, we're going We're going to paillard the whole chicken, which means we're going to pound it flat. In no way are we going to detach the skin. (upbeat music) - [Server] The Diplomac - [Chef] Heard that. - [Server] Going to 40 and 22. Table 10. - We have our Knife and Fork Chicken here. These birds have been brined, rinsed, patted dry, and So, they're easy to handle, and that's what we want We're going to cut around what We have chef Ben here. This is something that he is absolutely and it's really cool to see. In fact, him and I have with having a race, but I'm going to have to put before we do that. I mean, it's cool, too, if you watch Ben, like, just how proficient he's - Started here when I was 18. I moved to Milwaukee You know, I was lucky to get hired here, one of the best restaurants in the state. - He started approximately and this is someone who when we were doing curbside to-go, who grew into being the best who is now handling one of Just to, kind of, ride his coattails on his journey a little bit, I mean, he's earned every I'm absolutely a very hands-on chef. I've done things in a multitude of ways. I've challenged myself. I've practiced cuts at home. I mean, these are, you I really do enjoy the art of cooking and the balance of time and The reason why we're doing it this way, you know, taking out the back, is, you know, we're going to try to leave the skin intact, completely whole. Ben's going to pound 'em out so we get a nice whole chicken paillard. Paillard means we pound it out flat so it cooks at the same Well, now that we have these I'm going to leave these I'm going to take these Now we're going to make a This is going to be the fortified stock. You know, we want to so we're going to roast But this is one of that someone is going to carry with them. This is sauce-making 101. Looking pretty nice and roasty. It's not just about rendering I mean, we started with a which we're going to pour off. It's really about getting this It's really hard not to eat a wing or two while you're doing this. We'll add a little clean oil and we'll throw in our mirepoix. And we'll shake it up a little bit, kind of pick up those brown bits. It's beginning to roast. It's beginning to deepen in color, which means it's deepening in flavor. So, I would say this mirepoix's which means we're going in We have our roasted bones here that we're going to add back to the pot. You see something like a sauce, by giving it that care, and said, &quot;Oh, wow, there but they are going to know and there's care in what we put out there. And we're going to let and we're going to hit it with some wine. Today we're going to use a chardonnay. So, we'll let that come up and we'll let it reduce I'm in a good spot. As I'm moving it around, you know, I can see the which is a good sign. So, we're going to add our stock. You can even see, you know, and we'll wait till we'll have some skimming work to do. At 10:00 a.m., every I have this oven cranked. Oldie, but a goodie. This convection oven of a couple restaurants. So, we're going to mix flour and water. Then we're going to add our starter. We're going to let that then we'll salt it and then which we will turn the bread and fold it to develop the gluten. And we'll do that every 20 minutes. We make a ton of bread in-house. The reason why that's important, if you can make something that's great or excellent, you should. We'll bring out the cast irons, line them with a little bit of parchment. We'll turn the bread This is the only process because we want to put it in something that's going to encapsulate the steam. I love making bread. So, we're going to kick a and we're going to score it And then we're going to use and that's going to create the steam. It'll help the bread rise. It'll help it bake. It'll give it a nice crust. I just try to work quickly. It's like a good, intense with a little bit of We'll set a 20-minute timer and then we'll just begin incrementally for the next hour or so. You ready for soft shell time? Today we get in our soft shell crab. You know, with that particular product, we try to get into it right away. We got our soft shells in. These are whales. They're the largest that we can get. This is for our tempura We're going to cut the face off here, we're going to clean out the gills, and we're going to cut this tail off. We clean the soft shell So, this is our bok choy salad It goes with our soft shell crab. We separate the stalks from the leaves because we want to get nice, long strands. Because we're not cooking we're going to have a nice texture, but we're going to have a freshness that comes from that process. Adding the salt is going to make it wilt. We're going to start with the stems. You'll see it happen almost immediately, and then we'll let it sit, refrigerated, mind you. It's going to deepen the flavor. It's going to deepen the color. Final product's going to have So, we're just going to Such a beautiful color, right? We took some of the purged That goes in there. We add some lemon peel. This is going to, kind Some lemon juice, and this is really it We're basically ready to plate it up. I'm going to start the chile Oh, the chile crunch is everything. Going to roast garlic today. We're going to blanch it first. It's a pretty encompassing The soft shell crab is the selling point and the star of the dish. I think the chile crunch is absolutely what brings We have some oil here. We added our green garlic, too. We're going to start by frying this. Once it begins to brown, we're going to pull it strain it off, reintroduce the oil that we fried it in. And we added some sesame oil to it, chile flake and the Aleppo pepper. You can see that the to hydrate a little bit And then we're just with our fried veggies until they're all coated. That's our chile crunch. So, we're going to put for the soft shell crab. Three ingredients: little salt, rice flour, Just want to make sure it's So, we have the crab and we're just going to hold it just to set the tempura so it doesn't stick to the basket itself. We're going to take this salad base. We have our tempura crab and we just want to drape a little bit of this chile crunch over the top. That's our soft shell crab. (upbeat music) I absolutely appreciate mentorship and I think the best part about coaching is coaching someone who So, you know, that has to be number one. So, you have someone like Ben who sought out employment here. He's done a ton of growth. And then you have someone like Olivia, and Olivia hasn't line-cooked anywhere. She has a natural knack. The way that she works, Bread's been cooking for 40 minutes at two different temperatures, 475 down to 425. We got a nice rise. We're very happy with the way that looks. We're going to let the bread cool. We're going to put it on a rack. So, we do a couple slices and we grill it on our seasoned grill. By the time it hits the I won the James Beard Award in 2022. I'm going to tell you something The first year that I I decided to take a picture and make it the background on my phone. I didn't share that with anyone. My wife is the only person It is absolutely an honor to be named James Beard Best Chef 2022. It's not necessarily but getting that recognition in 2019 really reinforced the thought, You have to dream a little bit, I think, to be successful in this business or to do it in the fashion that we are, and that was part of a dream coming true. We're going to make our lemon posset. We're have Anna here, who is my partner-in-crime This is my wife. - So, right now I'm putting in our sugar, heavy whipping cream, and the zest of one Meyer lemon. So, Meyer lemon, very seasonal. It's nice and tart. But we're going to bring I don't have professional but like Dane said, when you own a restaurant you kind of do a little bit of everything. We met 17 years ago, I think. - Yes, in a walk-in cooler, similar to the one we have Dane was a chef de cuisine and I was coming in I was in the walk-in cooler. I needed limes. He said he needed limes as well, which I don't think he did. - And we grabbed the same lime. - That's not true. (Anna laughs) - So, I'm going to take this off the heat. I'm going to put the Meyer lemon juice in, whisk that in, and the citric acid. Whisk that in. Then we're going to strain it. So, we're going to set this. It doesn't take long. So, we'll put this in the cooler and then we'll just layer it to order. - I think what's cool about a posset is that it's not something It's always a fun question to ask or it's always fun to see for the first time. (upbeat music) Two and a half hours from service, just like the sauce, things are starting to The cooks have just arrived. Everyone's grabbing their mise en place. They're getting ready. They're setting up their stations. Things are really moving now. Finish ranch soubise. You can work with Anna on that. Portion Yukons, carrots. Banana bread's in the oven. If you can clean collards, and I can show you how to do that. I would just get your Is that roasted garlic? Nice. Staff meeting and meal is done. We're 20 minutes out from service. We're putting final touches on things and looking forward to - [Server] One Knife and Fork Chicken. - [Dane] When we're talking I'm not necessarily trying or reinvent the wheel. I've heard a lot of the Milwaukee is a meat-and-potatoes town. The reality is, you know, having been here and progressed here, you notice that there is I mean, I think people are (upbeat music) - Walking in, we have one deviled egg, one Diplomat fries, one Diplomac, add fries. - [Dane] We have something It's a great cheeseburger. We buy a great quality of beef, but we make the mayo, we make the ketchup that goes We hand-cut the fries. We triple-blanch those fries. We fry them at a low temperature. We let them cool and And it really is delicious. Naturally, the final is absolutely what Milwaukee has to offer. - [Server] We have two pretzels all day. - [Dane] By implementing I think it also really of we are here, we are cooking, this is us, this is what and it's honesty and it's - [Server] We have three soft shell crab. - So, service is up and running. We're just starting to Everything's firing on all cylinders. We got a lot of teamwork And, you know, that's where It's definitely a team effort. I'm happy to be behind the line. - [Server] One deviled eggs, - [Dane] I've worked in larger kitchens and I've worked in, you and, you know, there's I think because we are a I think because we are in that that's what matters. And I think when we're we're handling them the way that we should and we're being creative - [Server] New York strip. - If you can align yourself the sky's the limit. (upbeat music)