I'm Christopher Clark, and I'm travelling the world the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The riches of nature and culture come together in Africa. This is a continent of mysterious places, and rituals whose power of turbulence and change. Great empires rose and fell here, and what they left behind is a legacy that belongs to all of us. Our shared history, begins on this continent: It borders, like Europe, In that sense, But the transformation that took place would have been unthinkable With the empire of the Pharaohs, with a ruling dynasty, officials, laws, priests, scholars and an army. Egypt became one of the most The Great Pyramid at Giza, built by the Pharaoh Cheops is the only one that is still completely intact. As they say in Egypt: &quot;Everyone fears time, I'm travelling to East Africa, which is home to a particularly Egypt with its legacy of the pharaohs, Ethiopia with its imperial tradition Kenya and Tanzania But for now, I'm staying in Cairo, with its pyramids on the edge of a desert. The pharaohs weren't the only ones The Fatimids, later the Mamluks, Only in 1956 did the last British troops And under nearly all of these rulers, The historic district has been since 1979 and is the largest medieval city are still part of everyday life. When the great Arab scholar Ibn Khaldun he called the city the &quot;Garden of the universe And its Arabic name, &quot;El Qahira&quot;, For centuries, Cairo was of an empire that extended from Morocco And today, it's the largest city A sprawling urban beast, in whose heart you can still see exactly Today, at the Khan el Khalili bazaar, you still feel the many influences The Arab, the African and Asian worlds Trade has flourished in Cairo since the 14th century. And right next door the religious heart This mosque in the middle was founded over 1,000 years ago. The university established here soon after Many of the most important schools come together in this institution which continues to wield And today, worshippers from come to this place for the midday prayer, But Al-Azhar is also a centre Men have come here to learn so have women. The theologians and council members here are involved in important religious and According to Egyptian law, for protecting and tending The head of Al-Azhar and his position is Al-Azhar was only In later centuries Cairo would be known as the &quot;city of a thousand minarets&quot;. From Cairo, I'm sailing up the Nile. At 6,695 kilometres, it is the longest river in the world. Neilos was the name that supposedly inhabited Even 5,000 years ago, the Nile was already Today, it is taking me to Abu Simbel, to the temples of Ramses II, built in the 13th century B.C. in Nubia, Ramses II, also known as Ramses the Great, was the most successful pharaoh His ascension to the throne and he reigned for an incredible 66 years. His rule was marked and he fathered 100 children. No wonder he had his own likeness carved into the rock face four times. His talent for self-promotion The temples of Abu Simbel This was where for the first time the pharaoh had himself depicted as a ruler possessing the dignity Here at the entrance he welcomes us. Inside, Twice a year, visitors are treated It's very rarely possible to visit this magical place alone. It's usually packed with tourists. But today, I get to experience the full enchantment of this temple Its three enormous halls lie 63 metres deep in the rock face. Enormous statues stand guard in the entrance hall, have the face of Ramses. On Ramses' birthday and only then, sunbeams fall directly For fifteen minutes, Ramses himself, and Amun, the god of fertility, are lit up in brilliant sunlight. Even back in the era of Ramses II, the Egyptians were gifted astronomers, and we can assume was a precisely planned event to honour the shining sun of Egypt, Ramses himself. The reliefs and frescoes in this temple depict Ramses as a great In reality, ended in a draw, Ramses signed the very first peace treaty in world history with his primary enemies, the Hittites. But in his temples, He appears as the victor, Two themes violence and sacrifice. Ramses defeats his enemies, he punishes and humiliates them. His foot presses the face It's a world in which violence and power are closely intertwined. But the power of Ramses is also a bridge between the human and the divine. In another scene, As a human king, As a god, he accepts sacrifice from himself. No other pharaoh built And gigantomania was still in play when an enormous parts of Egypt and its cultural heritage. Abu Simbel was nearly lost in the floods that submerged That was in the 1960s, Gamal Abdel Nasser, commissioned the size of which The dam was nearly as long as it had taken to construct a medium-sized pyramid The reservoir dam the massive volumes of water and the turbines were supposed to provide The dam created an enormous lake with entire villages still resting beneath its surface. The temples of Abu Simbel might if UNESCO hadn't started a campaign The water rose higher and higher and would eventually have swallowed up UNESCO decided to save it, that was unparalleled at the time, collecting funds from over 50 countries to allow this piece of cultural heritage to be dismantled The complex was sawn apart into more than 1,000 blocks weighing up to 30 tons each. An international consortium, under the direction oversaw the A beautiful example to save a piece Above all, to the thousands of labourers over the course of four years. Once the entire temple we drilled holes in the individual pieces and finally put them back together. It was all really demanding work. Are you proud of the part this UNESCO project rescuing Abu Simbel? Yes, We had a huge goal to achieve. And is this...? Yes, that's my name. Ah, that's you! Abu Rafur Ibrahim. This is my certificate. But it wasn't just an honour, luckily. I also earned money. Abu Rafur regales on the construction site The new location of the temple was and 180 metres further inland. The hardest in such a way would still happen twice a year. But they succeeded. The second, was also relocated and saved. It is dedicated to Ramses' queen. And here, the Pharaoh &quot;Ramses, strong in truth, beloved of Amun, created this divine abode for his beloved royal wife Nefertari&quot;, reads one of the inscriptions on a pillar. Originally, was supposed But the project was abandoned. You can still see here the cartoons, that show where the workers And the last cuttings can be This was a work in progress. The temple is an enormous and respect for his wife, the myth of Isis and Osiris. Isis was the goddess who made the Nile, She married her brother, King Osiris, whom she loved more When he died, she brought him back to life. And when he finally disappeared Isis' tears caused the river to flood. This process has been repeated every year since then, through which the Nile flows. The collective remembering and retelling of stories but especially of those cultures preserved Since the 14th century has been passed but today only a few to continue to cultivate this tradition. The epic itself, together with is among the as intangible world cultural heritage. Across broad expanses as far as Mali, Niger and the Sahara, the epic has been known It tells the story of a Bedouin tribe that crosses parts of the Arab world. Honour and revenge are central themes, as are wars and romantic entanglements. It's a kind of song of the Nibelungs, except that this epic plays out on the Nile, not on the Rhine. The stories have been for ten generations. Three generations are singing The al-Hilali epic is their life, an important part of their identity. It would take several After all, the story is about Some of the instruments are among the oldest in the world. So, tell me, what is the name The name is rababa. And this is horse... This is horse hair! This is also horse hair? And this is fish. This is made of fish skin? And this? That's the shell of a coconut. And could you play something for us? How many people get albeit very badly, with a Hilali family? With the rhythms of the Egyptian epic I continue my journey I had no idea how green In this part of the country, gravel roads and farm tracks where a handful of tribes still live cut off from the outside world, as smallholder farmers, They provide for themselves and small patches of cultivated land. Ethiopia, one of the oldest nations in the world, only came very briefly and this is one reason why so many Once wracked with crises, Ethiopia has undergone and the economy is growing. But it remains and here in the highlands things are still pretty archaic Goats are When a girl marries, And as in all business deals, the price is negotiable. If there is one thing that nearly it is a deep religious faith. 90 percent of Ethiopians belong and nearly half are Christian. Ethiopia is one of the oldest In the mountain village of Lalibela, 2,500 metres above sea level, we can see how deep I'm in Jerusalem. I'm in the highlands of Ethiopia, where Emperor Lalibela once planned Christianity came Since then, the religion has played You can feel its influence everywhere. Thousands of churches and monasteries The oldest of them are here in this town, which is named When Saladin, conquered Jerusalem 800 years ago and blockaded the pilgrimage route Lalibela decided to create It became a holy place, its own unique cosmos to form an inviolable whole. You can feel that energy The churches of Lalibela, built in the 12th and 13th centuries, have been called But can we really say they were &quot;built&quot;? They weren't erected from stone In fact, They were carved and then hollowed out. A wonder, indeed. If the sandstone cliffs weren't so soft and easy to work with, the eleven churches of Lalibela, now a UNESCO World Heritage Site, would never have existed. As you can see, these churches Of course, every single detail had to be precisely planned before Archaeologists at least 40,000 labourers in the 24 years in which We will never know exactly how According to legend, King Lalibela had a divine vision in which God told him to construct these rock-hewn churches. At night, hosts of angels came down In Ethiopia, by contrast the stories and the oldest legends passed from generation to generation Lalibela is the religious attracting pilgrims The Sunday service is It is five o'clock in the morning as the congregation gathers. This Ethiopian Orthodox service will last more than five hours. Even up here, the air is heavy with incense. The church and we are permitted We feel as though we've stepped we thought had disappeared long ago. The Ethiopian Orthodox church Christian churches in Africa. The church counts approximately 35 million faithful These churches are among in the world. The liturgical language and their books are written in an alphabet that is over 3,000 years old. The high point of the service: For the Christians of Africa the rock-hewn churches of Ethiopia carry great symbolic and emotional weight as evidence of the continent's long Of course, Ethiopia's Power has also played an important role. The old imperial city of Gondar, on the edge of the Simien Mountains in the northwest of the country, According to legend, a heavenly messenger appeared and commanded him to build a castle. Fasilides obeyed, He modestly named after himself, of course. For centuries, the Ethiopian emperors with their royal households Much like Charlemagne in Europe, Appearing in person was the only way They lived in enormous tent cities, until, that is, Fasilides I arrived on the scene. He founded here in 1636, and he wanted to ensure that was finally set in stone, so to speak. They look something like the medieval fortresses of Europe. Missionaries from Portugal brought and over the centuries, these baroque from the East, Here, we can see Ethiopia's The palace recalls one of golden ages of Ethiopian history. An era of stability and Art and literature flourished. Libraries were built, and Gondar became a complex, cosmopolitan city, in which people of different ethnicities When it comes Ethiopians are keen to live up of past eras. Ethiopian Christians of the Ark of the Covenant containing the Ten Commandments. And even today, every church in Ethiopia keeps a replica of the Ark, which is paraded for the congregation An early ruler, is said to have the King of Israel, in Jerusalem. The child's name was Menelik, and he was the forefather He supposedly captured the Ark This is the New Year's festival It takes days, but today is called It's about John the Baptist, the bridge between the old and the new testament. It's a very And one of the most is that these Christians by Western missionaries This is one of Why did Ethiopia become The ancient Kingdom of Aksum maintained a In the mid-fourth century, converted to Christianity, which had under Constantine the Great. But Ethiopia also identified strongly They adopted Jewish rituals and certain religious rules which still apply today. And these ingredients were blended with African traditions, ancient chants and a dose of joie de vivre. Ancient Ethiopia is and it's a visible part of daily life. The entire region is a UNESCO I'm on my way to Its name means &quot;trinity on the mountain of light&quot;. The monastery and the paintings in its basilica This church in Gondar, is a treasury of images, images from the Bible But particularly interesting and fine which shows Iyasu I, the grandson incidentally, who's lying at the foot of the cross And you can see he's placed his crown And particularly striking is the stream of blood that you can see where it touches and awakens That is the skull of Adam, So what this image is really representing the bridge between the old Adam and the new Adam, Jesus Christ. And that is in fact a feature That linkage between The old covenant is never left It's always carried forward Heads of winged even from the The famous wall are among Ethiopia's Gondar with its is a truly unique ecosystem of traditions And thanks to UNESCO, it will be. This basin was more than Baptisms were also carried out here. Ethiopian rulers took a in other areas, though. As soon as a new ruler his brothers would suddenly disappear behind bars in a mountaintop prison The idea was to prevent anyone It wasn't until an emperor died that the next in line to the throne The others had to stay put, they ended up dying in confinement. Ethiopia is more than just or the birthplace It is also home to the reason why Africa is considered Man-made climate change of the 21st century. But the climate also changed long before Six million years ago, climate change gave evolution Here in East Africa, and our ancestors, swung from tree to tree. Until, suddenly, the drought arrived. Large swathes of vegetation died off, and our ancestors were forced to travel on the ground. By necessity, they had to learn In 1974, fragments of a skeleton Scientists estimated that these fragments They appear to have belonged about 1 metre 7 in height. This is how her skull looked, and it contained a brain than a chimpanzee's. The primordial mother of mankind and she was an Ethiopian. Today, we know that also lived in Kenya and Tanzania. Kenya is my next destination. Millions of years ago, the climate changed slowly, Today, that change is happening and the African continent How much longer will this idyllic place, where animals roam free, The number of weather-based in the last 25 years. And yet, here at a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve, you still feel as though even if the hyenas are on the lookout and a large family of baboons for the best tree. The habitat for animals in Africa is changing drastically, as a result of industrialization, population growth and climate change. Even the snow has almost completely melted away. If average global temperatures increase by just 1.5 degrees Celsius, Africa could lose 30 percent of its plant The number of lions in East Africa has dropped by half since the 1990s. And every time an animal species declines, nature has to compensate. Even the numerous hippos rely on this ecological equilibrium. They need enough water to Amboseli means salty and dusty. Volcanic ash from Kilimanjaro made the ground here like that. But as you can see, From the rain, of course, but also from And that's which is a UNESCO biosphere reserve, so unique. The elephants love the vast That's why there are so many of them The ancestors of today's elephants, 350 different species of them, populated the continents of Earth long before homo sapiens existed. Researchers at the foot of Kilimanjaro elephant behaviour Norah Njiriani knows almost individually. Her work at the world-famous has given her a reputation as a sort of elephant whisperer. Elephants live in families, They live in families. But talking about family, it is only the females But the males, they go independent. When they are 10 to 15 years old, So the families consist of cousins, grandmothers, sisters. The elephants here live ample time to pass their knowledge As a result, the elephant herds They are also carefully monitored Is climate change an important issue We get water from Kilimanjaro And because it is so salty... It's very fresh. But it comes up in Amboseli And the soil is so salty, so it's killing And that puts including elephants, at risk. &quot;When the last elephant dies, thus an ancient saying. Meaning: Crimes against elephants because the world one of these marvellous 30,000 elephants are killed Humanity's voracious demand for ivory continues unabated. At one time, now the largest living land animals, wandered the savannahs of this continent. Today, only 400,000 of them remain. I'm beginning to understand who once wrote: &quot;We had not left Africa, yet, but when I would wake in the night homesick for it already&quot;. We are visiting the Maasai people in their homeland around Kilimanjaro. The mothers of the young men in this tribe The most important ceremony of the year They have made a huge exception After training for 10 years, of true warriors. The mothers sprinkle and then shave them completely bald. For the mothers, For the sons, it means saying goodbye to their freedom It's time for them to start a family. Many of the boys struggle They fall into a kind of trance, and their bodies seem to fight back. The natural narcotics they consumed in the bush during the previous month At times it can look alarming, but the parents seem to and the boys recover quickly enough. Once their heads are shaved, a sign that the young men In the past, Luckily, this tradition no longer exists. The initiation festival lasts several days and ends with this chant. First steps into a new life. UNESCO has listed these Maasai rituals as intangible cultural heritage. Is it easy to sustain this tradition or are the Maasi facing difficulties We are just keeping We don't want to reduce. You see, so we don't like to reduce that. It is just still going on and on. But the Maasai way of life As herders, they used to own the best grazing land Expansion of national parks and And the Maasai don't have a political lobby Slowly but surely, they are being deprived They face an uncertain future. The savannah, with its stretches across from Kenya to Tanzania The Serengeti has been a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site More than 1.6 million herbivores and thousands of carnivores live here. The indigenous peoples or &quot;endless plains&quot;. It's one of the last ecosystems The 15,000 square kilometres The Serengeti is one of the most in existence today. The natural world in this part of Africa doesn't have seasons like The climate is shaped by alternating and rainy seasons. When the plains begin to dry out everything here begins to move. The great migration begins. Twice a year, this place becomes unparalleled anywhere in the world. It's one of the largest migrations Every year, around two million gnus, zebras and other hoofed animals follow the rain, from south to north and back again. And where there's rain, Predators follow the herbivores It's an eternal cycle This region is also under threat and a population boom. UNESCO watches over the Serengeti for its residents and generations to come. In this fascinating region, interactions between human beings are increasingly fraught with new In the last few decades, growing numbers of people have moved to the fringes of the Serengeti, who graze their animals Unfortunately, these domesticated herds compete with wild animal populations for scarce food resources. And climate change is another threat, meaning less precipitation, Kenya's incredible diversity along the coast of the Indian Ocean, on the Lamu Archipelago, A completely unique Swahili culture has developed here over the centuries. In the past, hundreds of these to ply the Indian Ocean trade. They traded with Arabia, Persia and India. And all these influences The historic district of Lamu Gold, ivory, sandalwood, The Swahili traded in all these goods. And they traded in human lives, as well. The Swahili, whose were formidable slave hunters. Their language alone, struck fear into the hearts where the They shipped growing numbers but they also kept some for themselves, Slaves built the city of Lamu, and they were an important pillar that is so admired today. For the elites of this region, the trade in and use of slaves They simply couldn't manage without it. And after 1907, Lamu entered the period Lamu became so powerful that the island declared itself independent of It all started The Swahili are their descendants. Arabian traders from Oman brought more They also brought Islam. Today, nearly the entire is Muslim. As you wander you will still find doors For thousands of years, Lamu was a hub Slaves were sent even after the formal abolition The profits were simply too tempting. Trade in gold and ivory and with it came lively cultural exchange. The 18th-century palace of a successful merchant bears witness to this history. These little palaces straight out of the tales of and they tell Lamu, on the east coast of Kenya, is probably the most cosmopolitan place The Swahili people, used to sail the Indian Ocean plying wares such as gold, from the interior of the continent. But the city's real heyday didn't start until the 7th century, along this coast, the slave trade began. At least 15 million people were transported from here to the Globalization did This hall is testimony between these people and their visitors who came For example, whose technique We have plaster motives, most of which can be traced You have Chinese porcelain, it was imported from China, So it is actually a testimony between the East African coast let's say the 14th century. Lamu feels like a city There are no cars on the island, and no mass tourism. When the people hold a festival, it feels as though a door The Swahili dances here No one knows how long but the people here are committed And UNESCO supports these traditions Swahili today continues to evolve. It is picking up, as usual, it's picking up To constantly develop that has always been known as the Swahili. So today it is really evolving. And it is picking new attributes that continue to be fused Egypt, Ethiopia and Kenya are just three of the 54 African states. But they capture something and cultural resonance of this continent. The journey from Egypt through Ethiopia confronts us on the one hand and historical depth And on the other hand, A legacy of great value, It's this symphony of history and nature The real African miracle has survived the ravages In this capacity to regenerate to move forward without breaking entirely lies a bright prospect Turn your face to the sun and the shadows will fall behind you.