Maybe you've seen this picture before. I know old town with an insane amount of towers. Many the Tower of Pisa. And it's not just this image. it. This medieval skyline seems out of place. It It is futuristic. It seems almost... unbelievable. supposed to be of a real place. The Italian a handful of towers there. Online no one seems to got my historian senses tingling. Are these images What happened to these towers? To answer I'm on my way to Bologna. I'm meeting Lorenzo Lancaster University in the UK. Who might be accent alive. Indeed. It's gonna take some rest with the help of today's sponsor, Manta Jochem? Hey Jochem? Okay wait, let's see... Manta sleep makes the world's best sleep mask and out any light and are highly adjustable. They your eyelids. Jochem is wearing the Manta sleep for side sleepers like Jochem. I just spent the Which generally I would not recommend. But with actually fine. I got way more sleep than I was it when I was sleeping. And they kept the lights that completely blocked that out. So if you code 'presentpast' for a 10% discount at the link with reading up on the history of Bologna's might know Italy as this unified country. Italy states. In this area they think cities should its citizens. Independent city states like Venice, culture. By some estimates Bologna becomes one of ambitious projects. Cities build cathedrals, town towers. In Bologna I found towers in different crooked. This one is actually a bed and breakfast. now there are just 22 left. These two are the It's almost 100 meters tall. But as I walked Some towers are just a few stories tall. Nothing understand what's going on with all these towers, countryside. But before we do that we need to do breakfast. Andiamo? Perfect. Let's go. This is a they make here. Lemon cream. Great way to start Indeed. Before people build towers, they build It is the most heavily urbanized area in Europe is also made of aristocracy. And the aristocracy, lives of knighthood and chivalry, which often you're good at fighting. - Noble families would Bologna, their traditions are taken over by local These noble family feuds are really like Romeo and a young man from rival families that fell in and their relatives got quite mad. The relatives the houses of their enemies, killed a young had married their enemy. - With this kind for protection. Families actually don't live in like panic rooms. They're only used when they're violence. This image shows two families making And priests tell them that if they want to go start describing towers. Pictures of them start image. So where is it actually from? If you do a where it says it's made by this artist Tony of these magical cityscapes and of Bologna. artist an email and I got a reply. (man speaking It's exaggerated. The real height should be lower. Finnelli. I've heard that name before. Connected I found it here on eBay. These are postcards of So not from medieval times. They are also based on he is with a map of the city behind him. And this of towers. It's in a communal art museum. If this and see it. And hopefully I can find out how many be rich in arms and horses. That of nobles was they move into the mainstream. You have merchants, a lot of money who also want to start building are competing to build the tallest. Not always to carry stones for a catapult all the way up 100 it seems like everyone is building towers. towers become part of cityscapes. And Bologna's I found that museum that has the work of Angelo shoemaker by trade, but also a strange self-taught This is the model I've seen posted online. It's shows all these towers dominating the city. internet. But in the museum, they told me it's So what does that source tell us? And where have the ancient disease of pride, which we have agreed that no other house should be built and Lambert. Some nobles say the length of towers all towers become associated with noble violence act. We have an image from a manuscript from Genoa the destruction of the tower of a nobleman who build on top of a destroyed tower. So they will shame, like your family would be shamed. But it them. So the wealthy get bored of building it's not as fashionable as it used to be 100, 200 where they can hold banquets and feasts. For the earthquakes, and some were shortened. The idea of Until one man made it his mission to remember. I which inspires the postcards, that inspires an Giovanni Gozzadini, it's descended from one of the first account of the history of Bologna's work, but he identifies 194 towers. 194. Recent some towers twice. It's not just a mistake though. of, in a way, boasting about the power and the them as warning signs for a modern Italy. Because So in the wake of the Italian unification, in warning signs not to have divisions again in the 1200s? At the museum, they told me there's You can clearly see the outer walls, leading up to towers towering over the city. How sources say 80 to 100 towers. I know this pictures, but imagine for someone coming It must have been a breathtaking sight. One of online is you never have a live audience to share friends have rented the cinema. These are some of by them and I'm proud to come to my friends. We the big screen, in New York, the 20th of June. And with us and watch our videos, you can. You can I really hope to see you June 20th, next