Hey, everybody, Don Georgevich here with Job Today, I want to talk to you about answering I had a subscriber write in and she's like, interview and they ask me a question, I just So, if you want to hear what I told her, go button on this video. Subscribe to my channel and ring the bell So, this all happens and it's probably one a job interview; what if they ask a question And that just drives us nuts because you're They might even ask you a question that you So, how do you handle a situation where you're you just have no idea. Well, there's a couple of things you can do. I mean, one, you can take a pass. You can say, Um, I don't know. I'm not sure. Can I come back to that? Now, they'll say, yes, probably, but you can You can't keep taking passes for all of their Maybe they'll let you get away with one, but Instead of taking a pass on it, ask them to So, you might say, What exactly do you 1. That'll buy you just a little bit more time 2. Push the question back on the interviewer, way that makes it easier for you to answer and mainly so it just gives you a little bit And my favorite way is when they ask me something Now, I got to remember, you see or you got asking you questions, they're expecting an Because you got to remember; if they were and you said, I don't know which is these types of questions are asked in the So, if they ask you a question in the interview going to guess that if they were to hire you, that you probably wouldn't know. It's a huge strike against you to not try And if you just take a pass, you say, I of damage to yourself in the interview. Maybe not true in all cases, but generally, question and you don't have an answer for No doubt about it. So, what do you do? Let's say they ask you a question, Tell whatever. The best thing to do is; (1) You can take You can even give them some non-verbal language it. Kind of like, you can scratch your chin, you take a little sip. What that's doing is that's creating a bunch time to think of something. So, that's one way to buy that little bit Now, if you come to it and you're like, You I just don't know. I've no idea what they're even talking about. If you don't even know what they're talking They have to do that. Otherwise, you might end up answering a question a different question, because you don't know. So, let's say you kind of know what they're for it. What do you do? You try to come close. You want to acknowledge that, Hey, I don't product or that platform or that I don't have exact experience with that, or this product. That's how you can come a little bit closer It's certainly a lot better than saying, I So, if you were to ask me a question about would go to work and it would try to come And be like, You know what? I'm not exactly sure. I haven't worked with that exact thing, but And I think those two are kind of similar. create some similarity, to show them that about. That's one way you get a little bit closer. But I highly recommend you don't take the them halfway and they're going to be happy Now, let's just say you can only do this once; But if you keep showing a pattern of saying, that, but I do with this. And if that's the job's probably just not right for you And you should even call yourself out on that I think you're looking for somebody who has And I kind of have this set. I don't think I'm right for it. And you know what? They might say, Hey, you're right. or Yeah, we realize that, but we think someone up to speed a lot more quickly in this area. Would you be interested in continuing the Yeah. So, it's always good if you can kind of step I mean, if there's a skill or experience, to it, so they don't call attention to it. Because if you don't call attention to it, And then it's going to be an awkward situation. But if you call yourself out on it, there's There's nothing they can say. It's more of a stronger power move and it interested in helping them. I mean, if you were going to help somebody don't you think that they would like you more I don't think I can really help you with that? person, instead of someone who's trying to they can help you when they really can't? That's what I would do. That's what I would do. Just call it out. Call attention to your weakness, whatever That way, they can't do it. And then let them decide how important it See, all too often, job seekers see fault sees that same fault. So, let the employer decide, let the hiring that you don't have expertise, is a big enough Chances are it's more of a concern for you But most people don't see it this way. People go into a job interview just freaking know this. I don't know this. I don't know this. Well, maybe that's not is for you. All right, my friend, I hope this helps you and you're hit with something that you don't I mean, not that this is a perfect solution, of just throwing your hands up and saying, So, I think that's going to help you out in And before you go, as always, go to jobinterviewtools.com, Guide. This is like a 20-30-page guide. It's going to show you how to answer the most Because if you're here and you don't know to help you answer those questions. It's going to offer a little bit more clarity It's going to cover, Tell me by yourself, Why did you leave your last job? It's going And once you learn how to answer those questions, interview, because it's going to raise your And naturally, once you learn how to answer a lot more leverage in answering other questions. And you're just going to build a lot of momentum. Now, as with any interview, obviously, they're And that's why I strongly recommend The Complete This guy is going to teach you how to answer And it's got behavioral questions in it. And obviously, you know, Tell me about Why was your GPA so low? What are into detail on all of those different questions; And you can get this physical book; this physical It's like 130 pages and it's got over 40 or and project management, stuff like that. And it's also the only guide in the world So, you can download all the audio tracks phone and you just take me in the car and It's also available and physical hardcopy. I'd ship this out to you. And it's also available in e-book; instant That's the most popular one. People just download this book every day. And you can get it in your email inbox in So, only book in the world that's in hard And this guide is going to help you go a lot This Top Ten book, this is going to help you. This is going to get you started. This is good starter stuff. But in interviews, they're going to ask you And that's where this guide is going to go than I can in just a free guide or than I I mean, I try to answer as many different so deep I can go in a ten- or fifteen-minute I mean, this guide here, I've got probably construct this book in the members area. And it's going to allow you to just take a way with the right language and how to say That's really the key to it all is how you You can't just go into the job interview and {indistinct 12:00} in your chair. You need to express yourself when you answer You need to speak succinctly. You need to look into the eye of the interviewer. And you need to speak confidently, like you Now, I know that part of part of what this questions when you don't know what you're It's hard to speak confidently when you don't And that's why I said to call attention to I don't know this, but I do know this. know this and confidently say, But I in your chair and say, Well, I'm really I've never heard of that before. You're That's a red flag. So, you can exude a lot of confidence in the with your voice, looking them directly in things just make you overflow with confidence. And that's one of the things that interviewers Not what you say, how you say it; how you You deliver it with body language; full intensity. You can't just sit back there and answer questions It doesn't work. You have to be focused, you have to be confident diaphragm, use all these tools that you have so that they not only hear you, but they feel All right, my friend, that is all I have for Good luck on your next interview. Go out there and just nail it. Just go out there and nail your next interview All right. Take care. See in the next video. Bye now.