While you were fighting Rinella Did you ever wonder what words It's hard to make out But if we extract just those voice lines from this fight, Sleep tight, Bo. Tight by mother's comfort. So mother's amber is renale as amber egg. Within A shard of the Elden ring given to Rinella And with this rune, she rebirths According to the juvenile scholar and with each awakening, Hence the lullaby sleep died five live in Martha's umbra. Now Umbra is basically another word Specifically, of darkest shadow during a lunar eclipse. So all of a sudden, this line becomes Renale is the queen of the full moon in her umbra, One of the tiniest little secrets is hidden in Renaissance bracelets And when you equip these bracelets, You equip Now, I'm probably reading too much into it, but it's been documented on your little finger can advertise of a costlier piece of jewelry And that's certainly the case with Renata, has a locked chest This is a ring of betrothal, and it's supposed to be given by Ronnie This ring would locked away by Princess The writing that's engraved upon the ring Take note. The ring from this place, Mine alone. But with this ring, you can become The ring goes on to say and any consort of hers would, by rights, So obviously, betrothal was a really But rings aren't the only symbol according to the Dark Moon Greatsword. It is longstanding tradition to bestow a moon And as such you receive the dark moon as her consort That's why you received Now, Ranallo was once Where then is his moon grade sword? Well, it's actually in the game, And you might not have thought It's in the consecrated snowfields wielded by a misbegotten crusader. It's the golden order. Great sword. It doesn't look like a moon grade, Well, that's because it used to be one Modeled after the Elden ring itself. Forged by king consort Rattigan to proudly the tenets of the golden order. Telltale signs betray that this was once the great sword bequeathed to him Now, Ranallo was once betrothed It was Reforged. Rattigan fought for the golden order, but then he married Great sword. Then when he left for Inala he reforged his moonlight Great sword instead. As for why it's wielded by a misbegotten your guess is kind of as good as mine. I guess a few interesting things is red, like Rattigan's always seemed to be in possession There's also the grafted blade great sword At the back of Vinales room Despite him leaving her so long ago, this is the same statue design the same statue that reveals If you're not familiar you should go and watch my previous The whole point of that video is to lay for all of the law that I'll be discussing I've actually got a few corrections that I'm going to talk about So stay tuned for that. What I want to talk about Rather, it's the backing of the statue. This crisscross pattern, this mesh, it's actually really important It's basically like his seal. It's his symbol. Technically, it's also his Elden rune. And it is something that you start to notice everywhere For example, with an Elden rune, and his mesh Next, we see this same pattern on the door Of course, Rattigan is inside is a part of the door Next, we also find it that's sewn over the mouthpiece You might think, that's not enough But the description says he ordered the Carrion Magic preceptors to make it clear that all of their matters And as you probably know, Rattigan I want to thank Lug whose work on the law for pointing out the masks to me. And finally, maybe most importantly, And on the Elden ring itself. So why does the Elden ring? Have rattigan's seal upon it? Well, this is probably a new element the vessel for the Elden ring. Perhaps it's So it makes some sense upon the symbol of the Elden But what does this mesh represent? Well, for one, it's very orderly. It matches the complete character And I do think a bit of the character because the scar still item represent the lifelong duty So maybe the seal represents the type So we know that Rattigan takes on So the mesh kind of fits with that. I feel like is the source seal, and it goes on to read not unlike a knowing curse The red seals on these eyes that the shape of the seal It's a heavy duty indeed. Of course, And as with Rattigan, the talismans And hers is a crucifix. You would have seen this crucifix between its present But beyond that, you'll find a ton especially where there are countless I'll admit, I have no idea why I have no idea why they're being punished So let me know if you have any ideas Erica herself is crucified like this You could interpret this as her being After all, the old and beast also likes But beyond these shackles, it's undeniable that the pose did become a symbol For example, go and look at the statues All of them feature her with her hands almost as if she's You could also argue that's the same pose that she has on This woman, And I think that this posture the symbol of the rune of death Now, the vertical line coming down ring is present And it really helps you together in Photoshop It's almost like a guide, But how many great runes do you really Well, that would have been a point tell you that you only need to collect to become the Elden Lord You might have thought How can the Elden ring be complete Well, then you have to remember and he's not an optional boss. And with his great rune, you have three. So apparently three is enough. And the Elden ring does start In fact, even if you get every great rune and theoretically fully restored that it's still not really complete. From a low point of view, there's an even bigger Elden ring that has even more rings on it, Nothing explicitly mentions in the game's descriptions or anything, My best guess at this stage of primordial form of the Elden ring Maybe this is something As for the roots on the design, I kind of interpret might have had its blessings filtered Perhaps Elden Ring The game's two popular Of course it will. So I wouldn't be surprised though, we were able to collect more great runes It makes sense. There is a system for equipping raid runes but from a law point of view, at least one other great rune Ronnies Rania said to have cast aside So head at the hold, three shod badass. There was a really interesting post by user Flint von Erich, who proposed that have been hidden on the moon itself, You can see it up there and it makes It's an amazing theory I remember noticing So long ago in promotional material to think that this symbol might Another thing that we speculated about ages ago was this line of dialog in fear of the night. The hands of the fellowmen Now that the game is released, he says this. The hands of the fel omen According to their armor, the dim roads at night, were once That said, the set does make it clear to be led by the fellow Omen I guess so. Take that theory with a grain of salt, And in fact, you should always be taking especially in these early days, For example, since posting my recent Low I've developed my own theories further and I've read and listened And unfortunately, I do think that there are some parts So to try and prevent actually spliced out specific sections I still think the video is I still think it's got good But in case you have watched that video now to just update First off, there's a small part a parasite. So parasite was kind of the wrong word I think calling it parasitic kind You know, just for feeding off Obviously, it's a tree. That's what trees do. In the words of koi log, another law the earth tree is more symbiotic. If anything, I think symbiotic the tree was symbiotic with one thing Root Resin tells us that with that of the earth tree, so it clearly Now, in my video, I also put forward that the Great tree and that this great tree was likely Now, I don't necessarily I definitely should have shown So now I'd like to point out, my main piece of evidence of the crucible of life is Crucible Night This is a crucible helmet And to me, if these knights after the great tree, specifically, between the crucible However, it bears mentioning that no item the crucible with the great tree. So it's all indirect evidence. So I just want you to bear that in mind on that topic. Next, I probably should have elaborated the felled God. She didn't. Rather, as per the one eyed shield, it's Of course, other descriptions to make it clear that the felled And we'll go into more detail At any rate, she certainly suppressed You could say she defeated it, but And lastly, I've removed the statement and Mikayla were born This is probably the biggest thing I want to correct, and I'll correct it Basically, in my video after the shattering from a single conjoined But of course, you can also choose and Merica before those two gods So I think it's more likely that This gives them time to grow up and gain their fame. So that makes more sense. I also no longer really believe after the shattering, and I have removed So thank you I'm actually always happy to admit I'm going to make more of an effort in the future But I'm not all knowing. Not yet, anyway. I still got a lot more that I can learn into my sponsor for this video, If you're looking to integrate audiobooks into your life, then you can listen to any one audiobook from Audible completely free Simply head over to audible dot or text of activity at two 500 If you want to try an audio book Dream by George R.R. Martin himself. It's the story of Abner captain who suspects that by a wealthy aristocrat named Joshua York. York looked up and their eyes met till the rest of his days were done. Abner Marsh. Remember that moment? That first Whatever thoughts he had had, in the maelstrom of York size All those who were gone in an instant. And there was only York. The man himself. The power of him. The dream. So again, head over to audible dot or text of Aarti video to 500 500 Thanks to Audible for sponsoring