Transcriber: Camille Martinez Thank you. I want to discuss with you this afternoon why you're going to fail (Laughter) I'm an economist. I do dismal. End of the day, it's ready I only want to talk to those of you I know some of you have already decided You're going to fail, too. (Laughter) Because -- goodness, (Laughter) Canadian group, undoubtedly. (Laughter) Those trying to have good careers because, really, good jobs There are great jobs and great careers, and then there are the high-workload, high-stress, bloodsucking, and practically nothing in-between. So people looking for good jobs I want to talk about those and why you're going to fail. First reason is that no matter &quot;If you want a great career, you have to pursue your dreams, the greatest fascination in your life,&quot; you hear it again and again, It doesn't matter Steven J.'s Stanford commencement address, you still look at it I'm not quite sure You're too lazy to do it. It's too hard. You're afraid if you look you'll feel like you're an idiot, about why you're not going They are excuses, ladies and gentlemen. We're going to go through your creativity in thinking of excuses if you want to have a great career. So, for example, (Sigh) &quot;Well, great careers are just a matter of luck. So I'm going to stand around, and if I'm lucky, If not, I'll have a good career.&quot; But a good career is an impossibility, Then, your other excuse is, &quot;Yes, there are special people but they are geniuses. They are Steven J. I'm not a genius. When I was five, I thought I was a genius, but my professors have beaten that idea (Laughter) &quot;And now I know Now, you see, if this was 1950, being completely competent -- that would have given you a great career. But guess what? This is almost 2012, &quot;I am totally, completely competent,&quot; is damning yourself And then, of course, another excuse: &quot;Well, I would do this, well, after all, I'm not weird. Everybody knows that people are somewhat obsessive. A little strange. Hmm? Hmm? OK? You know, a fine line &quot;I'm not weird. I've read Oh my goodness -- I am normal. I'm a nice, normal person, don't have passion.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Ah, but I still want a great career. I'm not prepared to pursue my passion, so I know what I'm going to do, because I have a solution. I have a strategy. It's the one Mommy Mommy and Daddy told me I'd have a good career. So, if you work hard if you work really, really, really hard, you'll have a great career. Doesn't that, like, Hmm. Not. But you've managed You know what? Here's a little secret: You want to work? You want to work You know what? You'll succeed. The world will give you the opportunity to work really, really, But, are you so sure that that's going to give you when all the evidence is to the contrary? So let's deal with those of you You actually understand never mind the excuses. You're trying to find your passion -- (Sigh) and you're so happy. You found something you're interested in. &quot;I have an interest! I have an interest!&quot; You tell me. You say, &quot;I have an interest!&quot; And what are you trying to tell me?&quot; &quot;Well, I have an interest.&quot; I say, &quot;Do you have passion?&quot; &quot;I have an interest,&quot; you say. &quot;Your interest is compared to what?&quot; &quot;Well, I'm interested in this.&quot; &quot;And what about the rest &quot;I'm not interested in them.&quot; &quot;You've looked at them all, have you?&quot; &quot;No. Not exactly.&quot; Passion is your greatest love. Passion is the thing that will help you create Passion, interest -- Are you really going to go &quot;Marry me! You're interesting.&quot; (Laughter) Won't happen. Won't happen, and you will die alone. (Laughter) What you want, what you want, what you want, is passion. It is beyond interest. You need 20 interests, one of them might grab you, one of them might engage you and then you may have found in comparison to all the other things and that's what passion is. I have a friend, proposed to his sweetie. He was an economically rational person. He said to his sweetie, &quot;Let us marry. Let us merge our interests.&quot; (Laughter) Yes, he did. &quot;I love you truly,&quot; he said. I love you more than any other woman I love you more than Mary, Ingrid, Gertrude, Gretel -- I was on a German exchange program then. I love you more than --&quot; All right. She left the room halfway through his enumeration After he got over his surprise he concluded he'd had a narrow escape from marrying an irrational person. Although, he did make a note to himself it was perhaps not necessary to enumerate all of the women (Laughter) But the point stands. You must look for alternatives or are you afraid of the word &quot;destiny&quot;? Does the word &quot;destiny&quot; scare you? That's what we're talking about. And if you don't find if you settle for &quot;interesting,&quot; do you know what will happen Your friends and family will be and there beside your gravesite and inscribed on that tombstone it will say, &quot;Here lies who invented Velcro.&quot; But what that tombstone should have said, in an alternative lifetime, what it should have said if it was was, &quot;Here lies the last who formulated and demonstrated (Laughter) Velcro, indeed! (Laughter) One was a great career. One was a missed opportunity. But then, there are some of you who, in spite of all these you will find your passion. And you'll still fail. You're going to fail, because -- because you're not going to do it, because you will have any excuse to fail to take action, and this excuse, I've heard so many times: &quot;Yes, I would pursue a great career, but, I value human relationships -- (Laughter) more than accomplishment. I want to be a great friend. I want to be a great spouse. I want to be a great parent, and I will not sacrifice them on the altar of great accomplishment.&quot; (Laughter) What do you want me to say? Now, do you really want &quot;Really, I swear I don't kick children.&quot; (Laughter) Look at the worldview You're a hero no matter what. And I, by suggesting ever so delicately that you might want a great career, I don't hate children. I don't kick them. Yes, there was a little kid when I came here, and no, (Laughter) Course, I had to tell him and to get out. He mumbled something about his mother, and I told him she'd probably Last time I saw him, (Laughter) What a wimp. (Laughter) But what do you mean? Do you really think it's appropriate that you should actually take You know what will happen someday, you ideal parent, you? The kid will come to you someday and say, &quot;I know what I want to be. I know what I'm going to do with my life.&quot; You are so happy. It's the conversation because your kid's good in math, and you know you're going to like Says your kid, &quot;I have decided I want to be a magician. I want to perform (Laughter) And what do you say? You say, you say, &quot;That's risky, kid. Might fail, kid. Don't make I don't know, kid, you should You're so good at math, why don't you --&quot; The kid interrupts you and says, &quot;But it is my dream. And what are you going to say? You know what you're going to say? &quot;Look kid. I had a dream once, too, but -- But --&quot; So how are you going to finish &quot;But. I had a dream too, once, Or are you going to tell him this: &quot;I had a dream once, kid. But then, you were born.&quot; (Laughter) (Applause) Do you really want to use your family, do you really ever want to look and see your jailers? There was something when he or she said, &quot;I have a dream.&quot; You could have said -- looked the kid in the face and said, &quot;Go for it, kid! Just like I did.&quot; But you won't be able to say that, because you didn't. So you can't. (Laughter) And so the sins of the parents are visited on the poor children. Why will you seek refuge as your excuse not to find You know why. In your heart of hearts, you know why, and I'm being deadly serious. You know why you would get and wrap yourself It is because you are -- you know what you are. You're afraid to pursue your passion. You're afraid to look ridiculous. You're afraid to try. You're afraid you may fail. Great friend, great spouse, Is that not a package? How can you be one without the other? But you're afraid. And that's why you're not Unless -- &quot;unless,&quot; that most evocative &quot;unless.&quot; But the &quot;unless&quot; word is also attached to that other, most terrifying phrase, &quot;If only I had ...&quot; &quot;If only I had ...&quot; If you ever have that thought it will hurt a lot. So, those are the many reasons why you are going to fail to have a great career. Unless -- Unless. Thank you. (Applause)