Good morning, Brother Rong. Good morning Sister Zhang, am I beautiful today? it's beautiful What's this? The chaebol is here to seek revenge? Missy Just come back with me. The master has been waiting for you to come back Inherit the family business of the richest man in the business world? Uncle Zhang, I have decided to marry Yinan No one can take me back. dad Why are you here? Don't chase me Don't run away You can't catch me, right? Today anyway We also need to bring the second young master back. Good boss The young master should be nearby Are you okay? I'm sorry. Marry me I? Do me a favor I didn't find the young master here. Look over there Can you let me go now? Thanks I owe you a favor The second master is there Are deliverymen being pursued so harshly for debts these days? I'm late Yinan I helped you get the position of General Manager of Dihao Group I also helped you get a 100 million yuan order from Asia Business With these I no longer have to hide my identity. I'm afraid you'll feel inferior. You are so beautiful today Let's take a photo together Meng Yinan who is she? Brother Yinan Who is this? This is my fiancee Song Miaomiao She is your fiancee Then what am I? Miaomiao is a rich girl You're just a poor guy selling things on the street. I am now the manager of Dihao With 100 million orders Do you know what one hundred million means? snort You don't think you're good enough for me, do you? Meng Yinan You weren't like this when we first met. Well, today I will let you see the difference between you and me I have tolerated you for a long time Not the princess' fate Still suffering from princess syndrome If it weren't for the fact that you used to support me by selling things on the street Do you think I would like you? Hahahahahahahahahahahahaha You've thought it through. If you leave me You will lose everything you have now and will have Hahaha Everything I have now It's all due to my own efforts. Brother Yinan This can't be the one you mentioned who loves to pretend A poor sister, right? I'm so scared Fortunately, I have you Baby, how can she compare to you? Your cousin is Fang Shixu He is the second young master of the Dihao Group Next, ask your cousin to help me more. Leave it to me, cousin. When did I get such a cousin? As for you Get out of here Meng Yinan Do you really think I can't find a better man if I leave you? You're such a poor guy. What kind can you find? I can find anyone better than you. Hahahahahahaha I think he is better than you. I? What to do? Return my favor Are you so anxious to throw yourself into the arms of another man? The delivery guy and you are really a perfect match. No wonder there's a smell of poverty in the air. It turns out that the delivery man and the street vendor are a pair. Ha ha ha ha Where did you get this street stall stuff from? snort Be gentle with girls You're a delivery guy. What does this have to do with you? Didn't you say that? The street vendors and the food delivery guys are a perfect match. yes Don't you want to see the gap between us? Okay, I'm laying my cards on the table. I am the daughter of the richest man in the business world Your manager position still has 100 million orders I fought for you. If it weren't for me Who do you think you are? Hahaha If you were the daughter of the richest man in the business world I am the Jade Emperor hahahaha The girl is pretty. The brain is stimulated. Not very useful What a pity Um Blown it over I'm telling the truth My Order The order was obtained by Miaomiao's cousin Fang Shixu In two days, Kyoto will sign a 100 million contract One hundred million I'm afraid you've never seen so much money in your life. Wow A lot, ok. I'll take a look at it at the party. Are you going to sign this 100 million yuan order? Wow, come and have a look. Too much bragging Do you really think of yourself as a rich princess? Do you have an invitation? Do you know what the invitation letter looks like? I don't need an invitation Go whenever you want That was done for me. Hahaha I think some people are really mentally ill. That was my cousin's party. The people who came here are all the top celebrities in Kyoto. What are you, a street vendor, daydreaming about? Even a male brother It was only because I signed a big order that I had this opportunity. It's up to you Otherwise you two kneel down and beg me I'll help you figure it out. Ask Master Fang if he wants to hire waiters. Take you to see the world And the food delivery guy next to you I'm afraid I haven't even heard of Master Fang's name. What's wrong with delivering food? As long as I want He can be whatever he wants. Anyway, it's a height you can't even look up to. And I'm going to marry him. It's really amazing that the lid matches the pot. You two are a perfect match. You will regret saying I'm poor one day Our Mood I didn't know how to write the word poor since I was born. Peng Yinan At a banquet in Kyoto I want to see how your dream of marrying into a wealthy family was shattered. Walk I'm sorry I drag you down again. It's okay. Just consider it as a reward for helping me. Could you do me another favor? At a banquet in Kyoto Pretend my husband is here with me Don't worry, it's just acting. I will reward you It's better than what you earn delivering food. ah She is a girl and she is not allowed to set up a street stall easy In this case Better marry her Help me stop rape Well, stop acting. We got the certificate. Think about it. And you Need someone to pretend to be your husband at the party? My family is urging me to get married. Missing a wife Just pretend to be real Put the evidence Um Walk Although we are really certified But it's a fake marriage I hope it's clear We are just a couple in name only. That's natural But I have another question for you. You have the same name as the president of Dihao no Before I knew him I can't easily expose my identity as the president of Dihao Yes, my name is Fang Shixu It can't be what I think. Oh, no, no It's not me. I'm not the Fang Shixu you think of. Same name, same surname After I became an adult My family wanted me to share in the Fang family's fortune. Changed name Oh, that's what I should have thought of. Do you have any more questions for me? No more Qiao Zhu This name sounds familiar. Forget it, he won't believe it. What if there is no problem? I'll leave first. See you at the Kyoto banquet the day after tomorrow Qiao Chu Oh no This finds me Master, stop hiding. Yeah, what am I hiding from? Um Hey, I'm married. Why Please show me your invitation letter I'm sorry. I don't have an invitation No invitation Do you know where this is? I am the richest daughter Kyoto Chamber of Commerce Do I need an invitation? You're such a poor guy. How could the daughter of the richest man come here on a bicycle? You care what car I ride? Don't let him in. Let me go for what? What is this for? Qiao Zhu is pretending to be a rich girl again Hahahaha you are so shameless I see Security guards can also tell who is noble and who is cheap. Mr. Meng, please don't be angry. I'll kick him out. What are you doing? Go out. I see who dares I see who dares Qiao Zhu, you're still with this poor guy Mixed together? This dress is a good one to rent. I have 800 sets of this kind of clothes at home and I also rent them. Security guard, this is just a stinky delivery guy Get these two liars out of here. No mercy hurry up Slow down Do you know this? Not Big Brother Can you be more serious about cheating? The colors are wrong No kidding. This is a special invitation letter from the organizer. You are done hahahaha I'm done No time for you Security Go away! go out What are you doing? open careful ah Why are you blocking for me? I wonder who can help you block this stick? Put your hands down. Damn thing Did You Know Who is this man standing in front of you now? You know, he's just a poor guy riding a bicycle. And he is a stinky delivery man The man standing in front of you He is from our Dihao Company. I didn't discipline you well. Please punish It's okay if you offend me But you shouldn't hurt him. Just fire him. Go quickly You go in first. I still have some things to deal with. Mr. Fang, this is He and I just got the certificate the day before yesterday He will be Mrs. Fang in the future. What he said is what I said Just do whatever he says. clear Um Mr. Fang Just received a notification The down payment is coming soon He really came These two security guards are trash. How come he got in anyway? This woman can come in dressed like this? He looks like a country bumpkin. Never seen the world I've had 6 glasses of wine. Could it be that he came here to get free food and drinks? Haha, everyone is right. He just came here to get free food and drinks He is just a poor guy selling things on the street. I'm not qualified to attend such a high-end banquet. That's right Someone, get him out! Don't let him pull it down here. Our file is Get out now Who dares to cause trouble in my territory? My uncle's daughter always bullies me You clean her up. I heard someone reported that you don't have an invitation letter. Please show it No, there is no invitation. The country bumpkin dares to come and eat and drink without an invitation Do you think this is a rural banquet? If you don't have an invitation, get out now. This isn't the place for you to come. How come a security captain is now Can I yell at people? No matter how clear it is, I won't ask who our boss is. Mr. Song wants you to die at midnight Who dares to keep you until the fifth watch? Meow meow, you have a wide network of contacts I didn't expect that the Fang security captain would listen to your command. snort Oh, that's awesome! That's amazing I said you How dare a small security guard be so arrogant? It turns out that he has taken advantage of his master to the extreme. Dare to call me a dog I will make sure you never see the sun tomorrow Bring him to the security room and take good care of him. I advise you to think clearly I am the daughter of the richest man Qiao Hezhi Hahahaha, don't believe him. He loves to cheat people by claiming to be a rich girl. I was almost cheated by him yesterday He came here on a bicycle today. Have you seen Are there any rich girls who ride bicycles? I think he is just an old liar. go Take this fake daughter away from me Don't touch me, let go Go Who gave you the courage? Song Qing, who gave you the courage? Why is it you again? A stinky delivery man is still haunting us This dream, a man dared to call Mr. Fang a stinky delivery man It is obvious that Meng Yinan has never met Feng Ershao This time there's something interesting to watch. Mr. Qiao, the actor you hired is quite dedicated. It cost a lot of money. Just a takeaway delivery man How expensive can food be? 1,000 or 2,000 But you Following the wrong person What if you want to make money? Follow him like this Poor people can't do that You might as well beg me I can introduce you to my rich friends. They like your taste Damn, this girl is so fierce He actually wanted Mr. Fang to accompany the guests. Died miserably. Died miserably. Shut up You want to kill me? Hey, let go I don't want anyone to know I have an uncle who is a security guard. you Qiao Zhu I know my engagement to Miaomiao is a big blow to you. But you shouldn't be in this situation. Find a fake to hold the scene If you know what's best for you, take him away from here. It seems that I will not reveal my identity today. You two are never done. Hahaha Identity This Meng Yinan is sick How can you still laugh now? I didn't say Are you addicted to acting? How many of you Throw these two pieces of trash out of here! Wait a minute, my cousin Fang Shixu is here. Can you afford it? Hush, stop talking. Pout Song Miaomiao, you said Fang Shixu is your cousin Of course, you two should get out of here right now. Otherwise, wait until my cousin comes. Just wait for your death. Yeah Look at this woman, she's so stupid. I don't even know Fang Er Shao He said he was his cousin. Song Qing, you are a very competent security captain. Even I dare to ask A bunch of trash Do you know who is in front of you? Dare to start Isn't he just a delivery guy at the bottom of society? What are you doing Apologize to him Are you crazy? Let Miaomiao apologize to him But Fang Er Shao Fang Shixu is impossible I didn't mean to hide it from you. I'm worried about my identity and getting married to you in a flash What to worry about Are you worried that I'll covet your property? You don't seem surprised at all You knew it from the beginning Fang Shixu has the same name as Fang Ershao And he also knows the famous young master of the Qin family Plus the people chasing you From the way she dresses, she doesn't look like Debt collectors are like personal bodyguards Fang Shixu I'm not stupid He had already discovered it. That's still installed. I'm the fool by coincidence Sorry, sorry. Miaomiao, didn't you say Fang Shixu is your cousin? Is he Fang Shixu? I am not sure In front of Fang Er Shao And dare to pretend to be his cousin What a shameless statement This Meng Yinan is also No matter who you offend I have to offend the Fang family. ah Dialects are my blindness I didn't recognize you I was wrong I was wrong I was wrong Sorry, sorry. Forgive me How do you delete yourself? Didn't you just say you were going to delete me? Please give me another chance. That's easy to say. Your account will be settled immediately And you, didn't you say Fang Shixu is your cousin? Hum, cousin has been standing here for a long time. I didn't recognize it. I snort ah I have two announcements today. First, as the president of Emgrand Group Dismissing Meng Yinan as manager Never hire You can't fire me Can't fire me You think I have no right to fire you? Mr. Fang, I'm not saying you have no right to fire me. You can't fire me. This is the 100 million yuan cooperation I discussed with Asia Business Group Someone will be here today to sign the contract. Would you like to reconsider? Asia Business Group's Contract This is not something that ordinary people can negotiate. This dream man is blind I can't recognize Mr. Feng at all. But the working ability is really strong. Yes, if Dihao Company doesn't want this kind of talent, Go to a competitor's company Isn't that just shooting oneself in the foot? I believe that with the vision and pattern of Er Shao Not for a woman I've known for two days. And sacrifice a talent like me. Divine talent Why People like you who are opportunistic and have bad behavior I can't afford it You can fire me But you are not afraid Is it a crime against Asia Business Group? Breaking the contract privately Or with Asia Business Group Fang Er Shao for a woman of unknown origin This is really a bit too radical. I won't allow a villain like you. Represent my company to sign a contract with Asia Business Group I will explain the contract to them. Breaking a contract for a woman Can you explain it clearly? You don't need to worry about this. Fang Shixu, you don't need to explain Don't worry Asia Business Group will not cooperate with people like him. He couldn't sign the contract today. Bridge Master Can I sign my order? It's not something you, a street vendor, can comment on. Don't think he can protect you forever. Just for fun, you know? Dear Qiao Zhu She is my wife, Fang Shixu Today is forever Who dares to bully him in the future? Just bullying our Fang Shixu A woman To be able to marry a young talent like Fang Ershao This is really a blessing from my previous life. Isn't it? how so Qiao Zhu is just a piece of trash selling things on the street Why can I marry Mr. Fang? This matter I do not agree My good brother You for a woman Are you just ignoring the interests of our Fang family? Hey, the eldest master of the Fang family is here I heard that this young master of the Fang family is very decisive in his work. He is also one of the possible successors. The competition for inheritance rights is bloody. This woman, Fang Dashao, came from the countryside. On weekdays, he makes a living by setting up stalls Extremely vain I just broke up with him two days ago It didn't take long for him to get close to Fang Er Shao Fang Shixu You'd better give me a reasonable explanation otherwise I doubt whether you have the ability to inherit the Fang family. This woman can't bring anything to the Fang family. It's hard to survive in such a big family. Isn't it? I remember Father has already arranged a match for you. The Shira family is one of the four major families in Kyoto. Do you want to break up with the Bai family? Well, I'll put it here today. The only possible wife for me in this life is Qiao Zhu It couldn't be anyone else I will bear the consequences myself It won't cause any harm to the Fang family. Brother, I I'm just worried about you for such a woman Not only gave up and bet on a 100 million order And also offend the Bai family You like this I don't know how to plead with my father. Besides, if I remember correctly Many shareholders of Dihao came to this banquet. Your behavior I don't know when the next shareholders meeting will be held. How many people are willing to support you? I also have good intentions Don't forget The eldest daughter of the Bai family Bai Suyao specifically asked to marry you A woman like Bai Suyao who is unruly, headstrong and arrogant Even if Fang Shixu remains single for his whole life I won't marry her. No wonder you're so anxious to marry me. It was to escape marriage. Good your way Xu Fang's second son must have had a fake marriage with the bridge owner Using her as a shield? The Bai family is one of the four major families in Kyoto. We in the Fang family cannot afford to anger the eldest daughter of the Bai family. snort Then put your heart back in your stomach Our Fang Shixu will not rely on marriage to solve the problem Yeah Well said I, Bai Suyao, like your ambition I'm here when I go to Bai Suyao Hey, there's a good show. Thank you Miss Bai for talking about love But I'm married Please ask Miss Bai to find another good husband. From childhood to adulthood No one dares to snatch the things that Bai Suyao likes. Yeah Well, I'd like to try it. Miaomiao Today, as long as we hold Miss Bai's thighs The same bright future That is to say How about the position of general manager of Dihao Group? As long as we can enter Bai's All companies are the same Qiaozhu Do you know who is standing in front of you? She is the eldest daughter of the Bai family. For the sake of past affection I advise you Before Miss Bai gets angry Kneel down and apologize to her. I apologize to him Is he worthy of such a big tone? The whole business Few people dare to talk to me like this. Did Fang Shi give you face? Makes you unclear about your identity What brand of plastic bag do you use? So able to install My identity It's no problem to crush you ten times. Miss Bai, you don't know This woman's marriage to the second young master is fake What is fake Yes, this woman Three days ago, she and the second young master were not married yet. It's obvious that the second young master doesn't want to marry you. Just find a random woman to be a shield You actually didn't obey me Just find a random woman and marry her Of course not casually We already know it well, right? We already fully understand I see He is your rental. Hahaha rent me Stop being so stubborn It's not easy for you, a low-level person, to earn some money. I won't make it hard for you 10 million is enough on this card, right? The temptation of 10 million Even if you accept it, I won't blame you. Hahaha Then you take the money and get out. You're smart. Fang Shixue, did you see it? I tell you Your wife can only be me You don't have to choose Miss Bai, 10 million is too shabby ah You're brave enough to throw my card Qiao Zhu, you are crazy You dare to throw away Miss Bai's card? You crazy woman Luckily I kicked you out early. Otherwise, sooner or later I will be killed by you. Your wife's temper is quite interesting. He is not tempted by 10 million Is he treating me, the eldest daughter of the Bai family? You want to get rid of me with 10 million? So stingy Or is Fang Shixu only worth 10 million in your heart? Of course not. Fang Shixu is not worth 10 million Ms. Bai, this is obvious. Ah Qiao Zhu just wants to ask for a big price I want to exchange Fang Shixu for more money. It's okay. The last thing my Bai family lacks is money As long as you divorce Fang Shixu Make an offer Enough I, Fang Shixu, am not your bargaining commodity. snort rest assured Do you think I'm that kind of person? Just name your price, right? OK, let me think about it. 20 million Hahaha Hey, don't laugh. I haven't finished yet. 2,000 trillion 2,000 trillion I didn't expect that I was so valuable in your heart That's not the case 2,000 trillion More than the Bai family's assets I bet he can't come up with the money. 2,000 trillion Are you kidding me? Why can't I take it out? good It seems that you are determined to go against me, right? This woman has completely offended Miss Bai. It's over. It's over. Visitors Give me Lan Suyao You listen to me. Even without her today I won't marry you either. Fang Shixu, are you sure? I'll give you one last chance. Choose her or choose me Are you sure you want to do this for this woman who came from nowhere? Offended the Bai family? An Suyao, I'm leaving this message here today My wife Fang Shixu is the best today Later too For a lifetime It can't be you. Fang Shixue I will make you disappear from the world of pain snort You asked for this. Hello, President Gong Last time we talked about this project in the Silver Triangle I can give it to you You just have to promise me one condition. Whatever conditions you put forward Let Fang continue to disappear from the business world I just called the chairman of Asia Business Group Mr. Gong Yue Strategy, right? Come quickly or you will be fired if you can't make it within 5 minutes And that one 100 million contract Direct cancellation Fang Shixu is about to be kicked out I now advise you to recognize the situation Stand in line The union is going to help Miss Bai clean up Mr. Fang. It seems that Mr. Fang is really finished now. My Liu family is willing to serve Miss Bai. My Philadelphia Yun family is also willing to lend a helping hand to Miss Bai Cancel all cooperation with Fang My Liu family is also willing to serve Miss Bai. Cut off contact with the method Looks like some people are about to be eliminated It's really like when a wall falls, everyone pushes it down. I'll give you one last chance. Divorce him now. Then kneel down and beg me I can let you go Let me beg you dream Fang Shixu's marriage has to be divorced even if you don't want to Grandfather and Mother I have advised my brother Not for this woman. He ignored the interests of his family. Fang Shixu, your engagement with Yaoyao Your father and I decided on this for you. You do this now Are you going to go against your father's wishes? Mom, you and my dad were originally married. I ask you, have you lived a happy life? I don't want to repeat your mistakes. I don't want to be a tool for your marriage. But you married such a woman of unknown origin Is this really happiness? careful At least He will stand up for me. Rather than forcing people Mrs. Fang I also prepared a gift for you Yeah, Miss White Gift: Tifanni Jewelry Set Jewelry Kyoto Winery Management Rights A trip to 2 villas in Hefei Hahaha Jewelry worth millions The price of the winery is immeasurable There are indeed shared villas. Oh, that's my dream room. Why Miss Bai is really thoughtful. What a pity that Fang Shixu doesn't know how to appreciate it. It makes me angry Now I have no choice but to take back the gift. Take them all away Wait, I'm in charge of this marriage. Miss Bai, you have to marry her even if you don't want to. Mom, don't be so greedy for money. I won't get married. snort You dare to show off these things? Qiao Zhu, are you crazy? Do you dare to smash millions of jewels? I really give you face. Dare to say my stuff I just see it. Can't stand this garbage Goods What kind of person are you? Dare you say what I sent is garbage? Efu Villa Area A Building 2 How dare you give away this kind of rubbish? You are such a country bumpkin. Who doesn't know The Hefu Villa is the best house in Kyoto Value over 50 million You said you couldn't make it to the stage What about the world? I only know that Hefu Villa is the best community But I don't know There are two houses in this andfu villa area a One is the best These two buildings? At most 10 million Do you know why? Because there was a ghost in there Sold at a discount It's haunted, right? Bai Suyao, you are the eldest daughter of the Bai family Give this discounted haunted house as a gift Are you sorry? It's impossible. The sales manager clearly said that no one knew about this. How would he know? You are talking nonsense My family's gifts add up to tens of millions What qualifications do you have to talk about me? These are broken. You better keep it for yourself. Mr. Fang Mrs. Fang, please take a look at the gift I gave you. Gifts from the Asian Chamber of Commerce Ivani show super high table set Ownership of Chateau Lafite Rothschild Hefu Villa, Block A, Building 1 Villa No way, super show high table There is also a French winery and a villa All of them are worth tens of millions. Even hundreds of millions in total It's several levels higher than the one Miss Bai gave me. Is this really a holiday for us? Small glass Not respectful Please laugh. We have little personal relationship with Ya Shang. Such a precious gift We are unworthy of it. Mr. Gong probably gave it to me for my sake. In fact, it is not necessary I also need your help with the Silver Triangle project Chairman Gong should take back this gift. I'm giving this to you because of your appearance. Hahaha You're overthinking Chairman Gong came this time It must be for my 100 million order. Chairman Gong I brought the contract. Just waiting for your signature As long as the contract between Meng Yinan and Ya Shang is concluded Even if he doesn't become the manager of Dihao The future is limitless This 100 million order No matter which company you go to Who doesn't greet with a smile? this time Mr. Fang has really caused Dihao to suffer a lot of losses. Mr. Fang You've seen it all. Chairman Gong came here specially this time You can see The Asian Chamber of Commerce is sincere in wanting to sign a contract with me You're still too late to regret now For such a poor guy Such a big loss Not worth it. Wait. We, the Asian Chamber of Commerce, have decided Cancel this 100 million order? This Meng Mr. Meng I received the above notification Our Asian Chamber of Commerce has cancelled this order. Cancel why? Didn't we agree on this? Just need to sign Just because you offended someone you shouldn't have offended To be honest, if you hadn't had someone to help you before With your kind of stuff Want to sign a huge order with our Asian Chamber of Commerce Stop wishful thinking. Impossible, absolutely impossible You came to Kyoto for a banquet this time Didn't you sign a contract with me? Why was it cancelled suddenly? Is there any misunderstanding here, Mr. Gong? I see Did you go to sleep with the senior executives of Asia Business? After all, your only advantage is your looks. Just to get revenge on me Right? Is it just to mess up my order? I said you stupid thing The clothes are yellow The brain is also yellow I'll show you now How big is the gap between us? Enough of the noise. What's the point of this? Security, take them both out for me Yes Yes Don't delay our business. Let me go, Uncle Kang You wait for me President Gong, I'm really sorry. You this time I came here for our eldest lady. Missy You mean the daughter of the richest man in Dashang is also here? Our eldest master will be here soon. My brother is coming too. He doesn't know I got married yet. I have to go quickly My brother is coming too. He doesn't know I got married yet. I have to go quickly Don't tell my brother I'm here. Otherwise you're done. Don't ban him. My man I'm going to the toilet. Um Miss Qiao, why are you here? My brother said he had something wrong. Let me handle it for him. Hey, President Gong calls him Miss Qiao Is he the daughter of the richest man? Yeah This is This is the Joe family. I am Qiao Wanwan, the daughter of the Qiao family That's right, President Gong. The master asked me to take care of Miss Wanwan outside. Although she is just an adopted daughter She can be considered as the daughter of Qiao family. That's right Miss Qiao is right. Miss Qiao actually came in person It really makes this dinner party shine. You're welcome, Mr. Fang. Fang Group invited me several times. There is no reason why it can't come What's more, I have something else to do today. I wonder if Miss Qiao has anything else to do this time? I came this time It's because of your Fang family's second young master Fang Shixu Give him an invitation to the Asian Business Ball in two days. Ashan Dance And Miss Qiao personally sent the invitation letter. What is the Ashan Dance? You don't even know this Ashan Dance Gathering the most famous celebrities in Kyoto Young masters and young ladies from all the major families will come to participate On the surface it's a dance party It's actually a dating event. The daughters of the richest people all came to the dance That young master from aristocratic family would be desperate for it. Miss Qiao, our Shi Xu will definitely be there. Don't worry, President Gong didn't agree with Miss Bai. Do you want to ban Fang Shixu? There is also this kind of thing No, no, no I don't agree to this. I will never ban Mr. Fang Miss Qiao Misunderstood It's all misunderstanding I want to know the Qiao family So much attention paid to Fang Shixu I won't make this request. I withdraw withdraw That's right, Fang Shixu is someone my Qiao family values very much. Marry my Qiao family The future is bright. But you are outside There shouldn't be any unclear relationship. If any I advise you to stop as soon as possible. You know Yes, yes, you are right. I was planning to ask Mr. Fang to cancel the engagement. Ah, I didn't expect that our Fang family would have this day. I'm so happy. Miss Qiao's invitation letter It makes me happier than any expensive gift. Hahahaha it's over I just offended the Fang family. Mr. Fang, how much did you offend me just now? I hope you can forgive me How much offense I just now I hope you can understand ah No man can not be moved Becoming the son-in-law of the richest man Fang Shixu I want to see how you marry You all get up. It doesn't have to be like this I will not marry Qiao Qiao Miss Qiao gave me this invitation today. It was Qiao Qiao who lifted me up But as a man I won't do this for my future. Thank you for your kindness I won't force myself to look at you. I hope you will consider carefully And I left beforehand Go Miss Son, divorce him now. Mom, why are you still talking about this? I said I would not get a divorce. I won't depend on a woman. I can't persuade you anyway. Keep going Why Brother, I don't think you have offended this young lady. You can also retreat I will attend the bidding meeting in two days. As long as you can win the bid Then even if the Qiao family They won't move us at will. But aren't you afraid of offending some young lady? I will attend the Asian Business Dance I will tell Miss Qiao that I am married. Stop it, little pig. Dad and I are waiting for you to come back. Oh my brother Meng Yinan and I have broken up Meng Yinan You are still the same as when you were a kid Every time I get a new toy I got bored after playing for a few times and then gave up. elder brother You lost Xiaozhu I can never beat you Brother, you are always too impatient. Haste will lead to flaws You don't have new toys, do you? What are you talking about, bro? Okay, if you're okay, I'll hang up first. Tell dad I'll be back in two days. Come back soon. Miss Qiao, your teacher, Master Yuanshan, has passed away master Have a nice journey I will fulfill your unfulfilled wish for you I'm falling in love now I'm falling in love now I'm falling in love now Miss, you are the famous Miss Hannah Why do you always like to set up stalls? My mentor, Master Yuanshan, is like this. He likes to hide in the crowd to find inspiration Oh my god Master Yuanshan's works are in high demand. Money is hard to come by It turns out that gods also like to come down to earth? What do you think of this dress? Is this a new design this year? Yeah, looks good I think it will be a hit. I think so too Mr. Gu When will you buy me the bag you promised me? And that fragrant grandma I really want it. As long as you behave Isn't it true that you can have whatever you want? I'm telling you I have a bidding meeting tomorrow. As long as I win the bid If you want the moon in the sky, I can pick it for you. Thank you Mr. Gu oops Hum, it's all Qiao Zhu's fault Otherwise, I would have entered the top rich circle long ago Why bother trying to please this old man like you do now? Yeah How come I was abandoned by my man and ended up here selling things on the street? Haha oops I was saying that I could smell something from a distance. It turns out that you are the old green tea from 82 years ago you Mr. Gu, this woman always bullies me If you can help me deal with him today, I will satisfy you. Hahaha Look at me, look at me Look at me. Why ah Someone is operating illegally in this night market Get them out of here. This boss Please remove the stall for me immediately What illegal business? We applied through the standard process. How can you spit blood on others? This big brother Is there any misunderstanding between us? We have complete procedures. I'm the security captain here. I said now Get out of here now Did you hear that? The bridge owner should cooperate with others as soon as possible. I am allergic to poverty. When I see poverty I feel uncomfortable all over Give me this booth. Who gave you the courage? Which onion are you? Do you know Here, I have the final say What is square? Don't worry, boss. Just leave it to me. What is it? How dare you talk to Master Fang and Master Qin like this? What's missing? They are not my leaders. I can't care about my good Don't you know that this land belongs to our Qin family? ah You are Qin Fen, the young master of Qin Group. I hope your pig brain can still work a little I fired you guys. Mr. Qin, please give me another chance. I don't need people like you. hey-hey Fang Shao Qin Shao What wind brings you two here today? ah I'm coming to my own place Do I need to say hello to you? Hey, no no no no I just feel that today's encounter was a bit hasty. Otherwise Today I'm the host Please relax, both of you. Well, I don't dare to go to Boss Gu's bureau How dare you bully my fiancee today? Will you dare to make trouble for the Fang family tomorrow? fiancee Um Could he be the one at the Kyoto banquet? Your announced fiancee this I didn't attend this party. I still want to get to know you. He is my fiancee Qiao Zhu Hahaha, no wonder In this night market Your temperament is outstanding. Ha ha ha ha There is indeed a noble person beside me. No wonder it stands out so much. Hahahahahahahahahahahahaha This isn't at a party. The lady pretending to be my cousin? How come this is a job change? Impersonating Fang Shao's cousin And you went to the banquet in Kyoto Then shouldn't you know that this is Mr. Fang's wife? ah I don't remember You're just being stupid, don't drag me into this Mr. Gu sorry You offended my sister-in-law Next Project All Qin's brands will no longer cooperate with your company Ouch I can't bear the anger of the Dihao Group. I heard that you will also attend the bidding meeting tomorrow. I'm really looking forward to it. Please show some mercy, Mr. Fang. Oh, then I won't bother you any more. Qin Shao That project also asks you Uh oh Go now Why Go quickly Mr. Gu Next time, don't call me an unlucky thing. Mr. Gu Go quickly This is my sister-in-law Seeing is believing, beautiful lady This is all designed by you Um yes Wow, this cut Are you interested in joining our Qin Group? It must be well designed. Our lady is I am Hannah's identity It has never been announced to the public Uh, Xiaolin, you should pack up and leave work first. Oh, good. Uh, Fang Shao I I won't disturb your world of two. I'm leaving first Let's go have some drinks good Qin Fen invited you just now Why don't you agree? That's the Qin Group, a nationally renowned fashion group. You want me to go? Then I'll think about it. Yes, Miss. But I think You have to think about it carefully. You finally smiled You looked depressed all day. The important people in my life He died today Um Sorry It doesn't matter. He has persisted for so long. He's pretty strong. Don't be sad Maybe he is by your side right now. What are you going to say? His spirit is with me or something like that Not the soul Maybe he is the soil under your feet now The wind blowing by your side is protecting you What did you say Why are you crying here, little one? Who are you calling small? I didn't cry Good good good You don't cry, okay? Is today your relative's funeral? It's my mom Do you miss her? Um You see, the wind is blowing You won't say anything My deceased relatives will see me in heaven. This is a lie to trick children. No, I didn't say that if someone dies, they are dead. No soul will not see you in heaven But he was buried underground Melt into every inch of soil here Every time you walk on the land Every gust of wind brings up dust It's all your mother It's getting dark, we have to go Hello Uncle Meng Excuse me I have to go Next time you cry, don't let anyone catch you. Um Dreams should be difficult Dream Man two Hello, Master The master's wife can't wait You go back with the young master first. ah This is not my bag. Whose schoolbag is this? My son has never been in a good car. I drove this car to pick him up today. Maybe he got it wrong. Excuse me I'm so sorry Have you ever been there as a child? Is that a lady? Go, go, go, don't look at it. Who are they? Why am I chasing you? They collect debts My creditor said that if I can't pay back the money He chopped off my hand. You're still in debt. ah How much money do you owe now? I'll help you pay it back Where did you go? Do me a favor Don't misunderstand me. As a last resort ah Does he look down on me? What did you want to ask me? There's no chance that I recognized the wrong person. Wasn't that person Meng Yinan? I have something else to do. Go confirm and leave first No It's too late to take it off. What's the meaning Hello Boss They have separated Should I follow? No need, you can go back first Don't alert the enemy. How is the matter going? I have seduced Meng Yinan as you instructed. His project is now dead. I was also abandoned by other sponsors. What should I do? Do you want to enter the top rich circle? There is another way to bid Bidding Why Mr. Fang, ouch! Mr. Fang, please show some mercy today. I heard about today's bidding meeting. Mr. Fang has also made a lot of preparations. If this bid fails You have offended the daughter of the richest man again I'm afraid There will be no place for Mr. Fang in Kyoto from now on. Hahaha Mr. Gu It's better to worry about whether your own stocks can hold up. Fang family is one of the four major families in Kyoto. Even without this project Still has a profound foundation It's not something that a small family like you can compare to. Don't wake up, Mr. Gu The whole company is not named Gu You are OK I'm going in first. Please make yourself at your own convenience Fang Shixu, you will cry later Okay, okay. Don't be angry, Mr. Gu He will be good looking soon. hey-hey Hello everyone I am the person in charge of the bidding party of Dihao Group. Fang Shixu's comments on this bidding Fang Er Shao He is indeed a strong contender for the successor to the Emgrand. He is really young and capable. It seems that Dihao Group is determined to win this project. Um Thanks After discussion by the committee We decided to slow down. We at Gu's Group are committed to As long as we win this bidding competition We will invite the world's top designer Hannah And his brand settled in our business district He is the only disciple of Master Yuanshan. Hannah Master Yuan Shan But now The only one in the world A super master certified by the Designers Association His apprentice Hannah is the most famous in the world now. With Hannah's stay If the bid is successful, then the story is in the bag. You said you could invite Hannah to join the business district How do you prove it? Because I am Hannah I am Hannah herself. This design style Use of Color And this stroke Hannah's style indeed. I had the pleasure of seeing Hannah's design exhibition His signature is exactly the same as on this drawing. This is a manuscript that has never been published. Why Anyway, they don't know that I picked up this manuscript. Even if I find out later The bidding meeting is a done deal They can't do anything to me. If Miss Hannah's brand is settled in It will help our business district enter the top ranking in Kyoto So this bidding will Who said he was the real Hannah? Qiao Zhu, you stinky street vendor, why are you here again? How come you are here? Don't worry, I'm here You're sure to win this bidding. Mr. Qiao, do you know what the fashion industry is? It's not something that a street vendor like you can compare to. Besides, you probably don't even know who I am. Where did you send Miaomiao from? Cats and dogs, I really don't know But I'm familiar with the name Hannah. Because I am Hannah Is this really what he dropped? Could this bitch really be Hannah? Why did Hannah show up again? Yes, but no one has ever seen Hannah's true face. How to tell this? Ah, I know. That day at the stall You must have stolen my drawing. Qiao Zhu, you are really scheming. Who stole your painting? Don't be so stubborn. You're a street vendor. How do you know what a fashion item is? How could you be Hannah? Who among the designers will set up stalls? Just prostitution It's easy to plagiarize someone else's work But stealing other people's ideas is not a Simple things are OK You said you were Hannah Then you take the inspiration of your work Share it with you guys Come on, I believe you If it is Hannah the designer herself It should be easy to tell. Yes, otherwise who can prove that you are Hannah? I can I can prove He is Hannah He is my apprentice. Is it Master Ruishan? You mean You are the Master of the Mountains Although except for my assistant And my apprentice Hannah No one knows my whereabouts But you should know this, right? Oh my god This is Master Yuanshan's jade seal. He is who he is How come there are teacher's things? Is it the master of luck? How does it feel to be exposed? Listen to me, everyone. What about this woman? A habitual offender She wanted to pretend to be the daughter of the richest man before Now you're pretending to be me. Don't believe her. Let's listen to Master Yuanshan. Oh, this person is really greedy. The little girl is young Why do you love to cheat? I believe her I believe her It's Hannah Fang Er Shao I understand you want to protect your wife. But you can't lie with your eyes open. Master Yuanshan is still here This bidding meeting Our story wins. Master Fang, I'm really sorry. Although your proposal is excellent, Wait a moment Who said he was the real Master Yuanshan? Master Yuanshan's jade seals are all in There can be fake Yeah, stop struggling. Give yourself some face. I prove that he is not Master Yuanshan Because my mentor passed away a few days ago. Miss Qiao, your teacher, Master Yuanshan, has passed away. Master Qiao, what's wrong with you? Isn't Master Yuanshan sitting here? You dare to catch my teacher? Hahaha yeah Hannah is right. Besides my assistant, Hannah No one knows my whereabouts I don't know you Why To create this monster But I am here now. Hahahaha It's 8 o'clock now Just the right time Look at your phones. Master Yuanshan passed away yesterday May the deceased rest in peace Master Yuanshan has really passed away Yuanshan Master's student lineup revealed It's really him He is Hannah As long as Fang Shixu can win the bid today I, Hannah, will lead my brand I also have 10 sub-brands under my control A business district Sign now Effective immediately this this Master Ye Shan is a fake no How could you tell such a big lie for a bidding? Who will dare to cooperate with you in the future? I have to give an explanation today. Let me explain. I really don't know. Now I know I have to run And be honest Where did my teacher Yuanshan Master get the meaning from? I How dare I pretend to be Master Yuanshan? Someone is behind this. Are you saying that the person who ordered you was Gu Mingwang? No no no no no it's not him it's not him Just stop asking. I, the person above me, I can't afford to offend If I really tell you My ten lives are not enough. If you don't tell me I'm going to let you die here now. Then I'll take a call. Hello Ah, good, good Mr. Fang My boss wants to talk to you. The person above wants to talk to you I am Fang Shixu Fang Shixu is indeed the man I like You actually won the bid. Miss Qiao, thank you for the award This is all thanks to my wife. He is the designer Hannah Hannah, he is actually Hannah But it doesn't matter Even if Hannah is famous Just a designer She can help you this time. What about next time and next time? Just a designer It's not worth mentioning to our Qiao family. Thank you Miss Qiao for your kindness to me In fact, don't rush to reject me. I'll give you one more night to think about it. Tomorrow, at the Asian Business Dance Looking forward to your reply Whose phone number is Fang Shixu? A competitor just now A little bit vindictive I will personally reject you at the dance in two days. The power of the richest family is too great Qiao Zhu must not be dragged into this matter. He is obviously trying to ruin your police badge. He failed this time. There will definitely be a next move. You have to be careful There is also the teacher's implication I had clearly placed it in the main residence of the Qiao family. How could it end up in the hands of this faker? Xiaozhu's father asked you to remember to attend the dance tomorrow. The Qiao family is openly choosing a spouse for you There's something else I want to tell you. About my identity in spite of How many people I trust you I will always stand firmly by your side Now is not the time I'll announce my identity at the dance. Even if you are Hannah But you robbed the richest man's daughter The person you fancy will definitely die in a very ugly way. All the socialites in Kyoto will be here today. When I find a new target I will definitely be able to return to Kyoto Detection Fang Er Shao Looks like we have to wrap it up today. Sister Qiao Qiao and Master Qiao are looking for a marriage partner for you The second young master of the Fang family already has a wife What do you think about this? It's mine, no one can take it away Slow down Miss Qiao, I came here this time just to tell you Except for my wife I won't accept anyone Fang Shixu, don't toast Don't eat the penalty wine Do you know what the consequences are of offending our Qiao family? Whether it is you or the entire Fang family They will be eliminated by the Sbon circle There is no more room for a clone It was my personal decision that Miss Qiao refused the marriage. It has nothing to do with my family. Fang Shixu, you are quite courageous He even dared to disobey the orders of Miss Qiao, the daughter of the richest man I just want to be with that poor guy who sells things on the street Are you together? Guan Yunnan is your own I mistook pearls for elm My wife is Hannah, a world-class designer She helped me win the project at yesterday's bidding meeting. Please don't mention him. What about top designers? There is no difference between us and Miss Qiao. Fang Shixu Why don't I teach you a lesson today? Do you know the Pyramid Code? Fang Shixu Why don't I teach you a lesson today? Do you know the Pyramid Code? This whole Kyoto is like a pyramid Our Qiao family is the family standing at the top of the pyramid All the rules of the game are set by our Qiao family This is the Pyramid Manual This Fang Shixu How can I bear the anger of someone who owes me a fortune? The Fang family is now prosperous and powerful Being replaced is just a matter of a word from the Qiao family. It is your blessing that Miss Fang Shixu Qiao likes you Wait till your family goes bankrupt I want to see how you can still act so arrogantly in front of me What a wonderful pyramid theory! Why is it him? Hasn't he been out for a long time? Qiao Wanwan Do you know the second half of the pyramid rule? What snort I have a question for you, little piggy. What is that pyramid you always talk about? Each plane of the pyramid is triangular The triangle is the most stable shape There is only one top But it also has a stable and solid bottom The upper circle and the lower circle together To form an indestructible triangle Do you think people in the lower circle are also important? It's natural So when I stand at the top of the pyramid When you can make the rules of the game It must be equality for all circles This is my pyramid rule. I said you have been impersonating me Strike at all those who are inferior to the Qiao family Is this your ridiculous view of superiority and inferiority? Why are you, a mere foreign girl, here? What role do you play in the top flow circle? Foreign Girl What is she saying Qiao Wanwan is not the real daughter of the richest man She also said that Qiao Wanwan disguised herself as her Is she the one That's right I am the only daughter of Qiao Hezhi, the richest man in Dashang. Qiaozhu She is the daughter of the richest man Then this Qiao Wanwan is a fake You believe whatever he says. I also said that I was the richest man, Qiao Hezhi. Huh The daughter of the richest man has never appeared in public No one even knows his name. He said he was real. Qiao Zhu, you are lying again Miss Qiao is coming to Kyoto for a banquet today Gong Yue, President of the Asian Chamber of Commerce Attended together I haven't met Miss Qiao. Hasn't President Gong seen it yet? Yeah, I was there that day too. I can see it clearly. Yes, I am also there That is to say A fake is a fake A sparrow can never become a phoenix Shut up Miss Qiao, I am on your side. I just can't stand this fake guy being so arrogant. Qiao Zhu, can you please have some shame? Stop pretending to be a rich girl. When did I say she was the daughter of the richest man? This is not the richest man in Dashang, Qiao Hezhi And Gong Yue, president of the Chamber of Commerce? They actually showed up. Hello, Mr. Joe Hello, Mr. Joe Wanwan, you disappoint me so much How come you are here? If I don't come How do I know you are my daughter? Fraud Bullying others? I I never said I was the daughter of the richest man. I've always been talking about the richest daughter. I am the adopted daughter of the Qiao family. I call myself the richest daughter There's no problem, right? I didn't lie. It's all you You guys misunderstood. You all are just following the trend That's why I misunderstood you and asked for help. He is actually the richest daughter How big is my face, Qiao Wanwan? Isn't he saying this to Are we mistaken? Want to pretend to be the daughter of the richest man Even after being exposed, he still refused to admit it It's really not up to par So a sparrow can never become a phoenix. A fake is a fake. Miss Wan Wan I know your father is the master's benefactor. So our behavior towards you Always open one eye and close one eye But you should never bully the lady. This is the bottom line of the Joe family. The top is all your fault Why did you have everything since childhood? I can only follow you. Pick up your unwanted adopted daughter Wanwan, you should know I left you a lot of things. I never thought you were this kind of kid. You disappoint me so much. Dad Wanwan also has her own difficulties We watched Wanwan grow up. She wasn't like this before. The reason why she is so extreme All because He had severe depression. ah How do you know? Of course I know Since childhood, I have paid equal attention to you and Xiaozhu. You are all equally important to me. In the Beginning I treat you as my own sister. But then I changed my mind I like you I'll treat you together I will accompany you to the ends of the earth Bro, are you serious? Xiaozhu Wanwan She's a good girl I mean it. Wanwan, will you marry me? I do Your marriage I'm in charge Thank you, Dad. Xiaozhu, no Xiaozhu, are you really a tyrant? This gentleman Please note Our Xiaozhu is not familiar with you yet. Xiaozhu, listen to me. I have had a relationship with you for many years You helped me get that order, right? You must still have me in your heart Right? Wen Yunnan Please pay attention to the measure Qiao Zhu is my wife now Xiaozhu, please stop being angry with me. I know you You got married to Fang Shixu just to piss me off. Xiaozhu, I beg you Please forgive me just this once. Meng Yinan When you left me God said four words to me What Different paths for dogs and humans Go back and look in the mirror. Even if there is no mirror, there will always be urine. Or maybe your urine is matte. It's not your turn to be the daughter of Qiao Hezhi. This is so sexy The bodyguard took him away Don't let me see him in Kyoto anymore. Piglet Walk Let me go I didn't expect you to be so rich. I always wanted to protect you. Now it seems that I was too self-righteous. I know you married me for the man of your dreams You can go back and leave Who said I was leaving? At first, there might be some anger involved. But now I know You are the one I'm looking for. What's the meaning I mean Fang Shixu Let's make it real Why No way, Mr. Fang You've been sitting here stupidly for the whole afternoon. As for that, you'll know when you find someone you like. Back to the point My sister-in-law is the famous designer Hannah Can we ask her to give us Qinshi a brand agency? I told her She's on the way I'm here to talk to you about this today. I'm sorry. I'm late Not too late It's never too late to work with the great designer Hannah This is our brand licensing contract. Our Hannah enters the domestic market for the first time Selection of partners We are still very cautious I understand, I understand, sister-in-law, don't worry. We, Qinshi, dare to claim to be the first in the domestic fashion industry No one dares to claim second place There's absolutely no problem cooperating with me. I have money Hello, I'm signing a contract with Hannah. What's the matter? Mr. Qin, don't sign it yet. Check out Song Miaomiao's live broadcast What I'm live here today I just hope that my death will allow everyone to see clearly famous designer hannah What kind of person is she? That video What's going on? How did Song Miaomiao get your video? The person in the video is indeed me But the person who edited the video is very smart The original meaning of my painting was changed through malicious editing But this video can only be taken by my assistant Xiaolin How could he You mean your assistant Xiaolin betrayed you? Xiaolin is not that kind of person. He must have had his reasons for doing this. But I can't contact him now. Print these things. Send it to the propaganda department. Hello, Xiaolin I'll do it right away Um Yan Tak Hospital Miss, I'm sorry. I really didn't mean to do this. My mother is seriously ill but There are very few doctors in China who can perform this surgery. Song Miaomiao says She knows a famous doctor who performs this surgery abroad. That's why I did it If there is any other choice I will definitely not betray you Miss, hit me. If you hit me, I'll calm you down. Such a big thing happened Why didn't you tell me I can help you It's really too late My mother urgently needs surgery. But there is only one doctor in China who can perform this operation. I can't get her time. Who said we can't have a date? You don't know that I have the largest medical group in Dashang Now it's almost the time Hannah and I agreed on. There are only 10 minutes left She didn't move at all. I think he just doesn't dare to confront me Well done, Miss Miaomiao Such people should be exposed. Thanks Thank you for supporting me I know fairness and justice will never be late Those bullies will copy me. In this circle There's no way you'll ever survive. How dare the plagiarists come here? I bought out all the evidence. How dare he come? Hahahaha Qiao Zhu This time I want to see how I can kill you. Hum? Are you here to apologize to me? today I'm here to make it impossible for you to survive in Kyoto. Ha ha I can't survive Now the whole internet knows that you plagiarized my work He also bullied me at work. Is there anything else you want to say? Are you sure the video you posted is the full version? What Hello everyone, I am Hannah, the designer Recently someone pretended to be my assistant on the Internet Spread some false information To prevent rumors from spreading So I came here to clarify You dare to quibble? Isn't that you in the video? It's me, but this is the full version This is the real full video How did you pass this resume? Do you know how difficult it is for new designers to stand out now? It's because of this kind of people who are trying to get close to each other. It ruined the whole atmosphere. If I get this resume approved today How do others see me? I'm Hannah Can't make others feel fair and just It's a joke Sorry Miss I'll open it now Someone wants to use his connections to get promoted I just forced his resume in. I found it That's why I get so angry Impossible Impossible Why do you have a full version of the video? Want to bribe others I can understand paying the corresponding conditions. But not everyone will be bought. If the same chips are placed in front of Xiaolin Do you think he will choose me or you? You mean you found that doctor for him? impossible impossible I am the only one in the country who knows that doctor. Excuse me That doctor happened to be from our Dihao Group. Actually, I want to ask you Who is supporting you behind the scenes? Foreign doctor resources A professional navy team This is not something you can do I don't understand you You don't understand what I'm saying, right? If you don't tell me who is behind this That's in Kyoto Even the entire Dashang will have no place for you I mean what I say This this This is indeed not me. This is not me. There is a mysterious person He told me that as long as he could ruin your reputation Losing Everything He can give me everything I want. who is he I have no idea I have no idea I really don't know He always contacts me with a virtual number I checked And his voice has also been specially processed I really don't know who he is. Please let me go Song Miaomiao, take care of yourself elder brother Small bamboo Father wants you to take your brother back to the main house today. So fast Chi Xu We'll be a family from now on. Wanming and Wanwan's wedding is also complete The only ones left are you two. Xiaozhu is my only daughter You have to be nice to her. Dad, what did you say? Wanwan is also your daughter. Ah Dad I'm getting old and confused. You are all my good daughters. Wanwan, don't take it to heart. Your father has been kind to me. I will treat them like my own flesh and blood. dad Uncle Joe, I feel a little unwell. I want to go back to my room and rest first. Why are you feeling uncomfortable again? Did you fail to take the medicine prescribed by the doctor on time? Wang Ma, take Wanwan back to have some rest first. Remember to make sure she takes her medicine on time. This is Why does Qiao Wanwan seem to be getting worse? Xiaozhu, you just came back. You're not used to eating outside. You and Shi Xu have known each other for a short time. He probably doesn't know what you like to eat. Shi Xu, I don't mean anything else. I just care about Xiaozhu How does Qiao Huaiming speak? Tea with tea flavor How come? You are Xiaozhu's brother. That's my brother too. Do you mind if I call you brother? Although Xiaozhu and I have known each other for a short time how long But don't worry The rest of my life I will definitely become the person who understands her best Make her happy What wrong medicine did these two people take today? The piglet has really grown up. She got married suddenly. I remember when I was little I said I wanted to marry my brother. So cute When did I say this? You see, Xiaozhu doesn't even remember it. That must be because I was young and ignorant. Already forgotten It doesn't matter Xiaozhu now has the ability to distinguish right from wrong Otherwise, I wouldn't have found such a suitable husband. You said it's not Xiaozhu I can't stay in this place any longer. Dad, I'm a little bored. I'm going out first Where are you going Uh, I'm going to find Joe. I'm going to chat with my sister-in-law Yes, brother, you have a family. You should pay more attention to your sister-in-law. I am married But Xiaochu will always be my sister. What are you doing here? Are you here to laugh at my joke? Who laughs at you? Father He never treated me as his own daughter. Although Hua Ming and I are married But I only have eyes for you, my sister No one in this family has ever looked me in the eye. Actually, Dad is good to you. I know he has already given you 10% of the shares in private. So he's good enough for you. Not enough, far from enough I want care It's love that everyone respects me I have lived under a bridge for more than ten years. But others They all treat me like a dog living under a bridge Even your father adopted me It's just because of my own guilt. Calm down. Have you taken your medicine properly? I take medicine every day How is it now? Are you guys starting to think I'm crazy? Little Bamboo What's wrong Oh, it's okay. That dad wants you to stay at home today. Wang Ma Please clean up Xiaozhu's room. By the way, prepare another room for Master Fang. What is the purpose of preparing an extra room? Dad, they haven't had the wedding yet. This is not good. oops My son and his wife have both received their marriage certificates. They are all husband and wife It's okay to live together I'm not an antique. My mother just listened to me and took one room. I want to have a grandchild soon. She was cute when she was little. The girl But that girl Mr. Fang, you finally recognized me. I didn't expect we knew each other so early. Isn't it? And I've loved you since then. After you left that time A name tag fell off your bag It says Dream Man That's why I recognized the wrong person. Otherwise, from my perspective How could I fall for a man like that? It's all my fault that I took the wrong schoolbag that day Otherwise you won't recognize the wrong person. We wouldn't have met each other for so many years. Fortunately, it is not too late now Which Your wife is in my hands. Gu Xiaofan is dead Just go to the address I mentioned. Otherwise what Hahaha Who are you? What do you want to do? Um What are you going to do? Let me go Xiaozhu Slow down The protagonist appears Master Fang, I advise you not to act rashly. This Miss Qiao has explosives tied to her back If you are close It is very likely that two people will die together. Tell me what you want What I want Um The second young master of the Dihao Group The Prodigy Why don't you kneel down and take a look? No no I kneel Shixue Don't If you have any other requests, please feel free to ask. I like people like Master Fang who are straightforward. You two should remind Master Fang. stop I am the eldest daughter of the Qiao family I'll give you whatever you want. I'll give you whatever you want. piggy Don't save them. I can handle it Hahaha I didn't expect Master Fang to be a man of integrity. The next requirement is to hand you over All shares in the Fang family As long as you sign the share transfer I'll let you leave safely. I take Once you sign, you'll have nothing. You thought you were a pauper Will Asia Business Group still accept you? They don't want a piece of trash. I said No matter who he is with I will definitely choose him I don't want the shares anymore Hahaha Fang Shixu congratulations on welcoming the people who have nothing Xiao Zhu, are you okay? elder brother How come you are here? Fortunately, you are safe. If something happens to you I really What is it called What is I was born too Who else is born Wanwan, she passed away What Ha ha ha ha I have already acquired Fang Shixu's shares Thanks to your plan this time. I didn't expect my brother to be so infatuated. snort Who are you? Why do you want to help me? It doesn't matter who I am You just need to know that we have a common goal. Leaving Fang Shixu with nothing absolutely I have to live up to your father's trust. I feel guilty about him. dad It's all my fault I didn't take good care of Wanwan. I didn't notice her emotions in time. This caused her to take too much worry Wanming Wanwan passed away You are the saddest one. Don't blame yourself elder brother My condolences My sister-in-law in heaven doesn't want to see you like this. dad I'm sure I will never marry I didn't take good care of Wanwan when she was alive. I only want him after he dies. Why You kid As you go Mom has some funeral matters to deal with. I'll leave first. Go ahead Such a beautiful butterfly Unfortunately, I always disobey If it only fell on me Does it mean that it doesn't need to be made into a specimen? But it doesn't matter piggy I don't mind breaking your wings Let you stay with me forever I never thought things would turn out like this. Xiaozhu, I have nothing now Will you still love me You gave up everything for me How could I not love you, idiot? But I can't bear to Let my wife marry a pauper Prepare to close the net Prepare to close the net About this scandal The Emgrand Group will issue a statement Please be patient. Mr. Liu, please don't worry. We are still discussing the final solution. This order cannot be cancelled. Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Fang Zongdihou was exposed for financial fraud Stock prices continue to fall The decline has exceeded 150%. Wait a minute, wait a minute How are you investigating the problems at the factory? Mr. Fang hasn't found the result yet. Trash you are trash Mr. Fang, the share price of Dihao has dropped by 2 billion Already lost 5 billion 10 billion has been issued indulgence Sell all Hello The lady and the master had a sudden heart attack and were hospitalized. Come here soon Wait for me Come right over Today we hold a shareholders' meeting I hope to elect an acting chairman of the company. During Qiao Dong's hospitalization Manage the company on his behalf Any suggestions now? Mr. Qiao had a sudden heart attack. We don't know when to wake up. This selection of acting directors can only support for a short time. Yeah, I don't know if I can wake up. What did you say? Ah, calm down, everyone. The ball farmer had a request before When he is seriously ill or dead Emergency plan will be activated All the shares under his name Divide equally between two heirs Mr. Qiao Huaiming and Ms. Qiao Zhu Mr. Qiao holds 52% of the shares in our group. That is to say The two will each receive 26% of the shares. Dear Shareholders After receiving the news that his father was seriously ill I've already driven out overnight. Contingency plans to keep your company running Make sure that after your father wakes up The company can continue as usual So next Let me tell you about this plan. This young lady is worthy of being President Qiao. Daughter He has the style of his father. But how can a woman be in charge here? The young master's ability is obvious to all Ya Shang gave it to him We can rest assured. Dear Shareholders Excuse me Interrupt Since I hold more than 50% of the shares So I am the one with the highest holding in Asia Business Group. Master, your shares are 8% Plus the 26% left by Qiao Dong That means you now own 34% of the shares. Even so She is also very different from the eldest lady. Who said I only have 34%? elder brother You mean you have other hidden shares? My recently deceased wife Qiao Wanwan She is Qiao's adopted daughter. Her father is kind to our family. So Joe gave him 10% of the shares After his death I will inherit his shares as a husband I brought a lawyer to do the liquidation today. What Miss Wanwan actually owns so many shares. Second only to the eldest lady Everyone The first thing I did after becoming acting chairman was That is to dismiss Qiao Zhu from all his positions in Asia Business Small bamboo I admit that you are excellent Your father has been training you as his successor since you were young. But I found The more beautiful things They always want to fly farther and farther Flying higher and higher Bro, what do you mean? You want to kick me out of Asia Business Little Master You are my sister I am the person who cares about you the most in the world But there are always other people around you Those people can't protect you well. So I thought about it. Only keep you by my side forever I can protect you forever elder brother You are too paranoid That's not love That's your possessiveness. Small bamboo How can I protect you? Don't you know I am the one you have experienced after the darkness The one who brings you light Instead of Fang Shixu Aren't you the one who brought me darkness? What does this mean? You know I want I came back only after I got engaged to Meng Yinan. He also instructed Song Miaomiao to pretend to be a rich girl. To seduce Meng Yinan Just to make Meng Yinan leave me Then you asked him to assume another identity of mine Hannah goes to the bidding meeting He also instructed Qiao Wanwan to steal from the main house The meaning that Teacher Yuanshan gave me You're just doing this to keep your bid from failing. Seriously hurt You say you care But you instigated Fang Shirui to kidnap I you Just to make Shi Xu lose all his shares in Dihao You're doing this just to break my wings Leave me nowhere to go? Xiaozhu, you have done a very good analysis. But what about the evidence? Song Miaomiao's timing to approach Meng Yinan was too coincidental Appear at the time of engagement Then he pretended to be me and went to the bidding meeting. And brought a fake Master Yuanshan And what about Fang Shirui? And kidnapped me when Shi Xu and I were sure of our relationship elder brother Don't you think it's a coincidence? So I checked it out. I found that they were at the same time Stay closely connected to the same IP address That explains everything. How can you prove that person is me? elder brother The message that Teacher Yuanshan left me I only told you Didn't you say you told everyone in the Qiao family? Yeah But you are my brother He is the one who has been by my side since my mother passed away. You are important to me Teacher Yuanshan is also very important to me. So the jade seal thing I only told you one person But you betrayed my trust And will never deceive me It won't hurt me So I will choose him You choose him He has now lost all his shares in Emgrand He's a worthless piece of trash. Do you have a future with him? Who said I lost all my shares in Emgrand Group? I have taken back the shares Including my brother's share Who said I lost all my shares in Emgrand Group? I have taken back the shares. Including my brother's Prepare to close the net Sell All You thought you kept those shares of Dihao that no one wanted. Is it useful? Ah, you ruined all the shares of Dihao yourself. This is your strategy All previous tax issues of Dihao Group All because of malicious suppression by competitors in the same industry Our company has submitted information to relevant departments All tax issues of Dihao Group Full transparency I hope that friends from the media will supervise In addition, Dihao Group will also launch a new project I hope everyone will support me Dihao's share price rebounded Ouch 120% This recovery speed is too fast. Even higher than the previous stock price If I had known this, I would have bought in at a low price. So that's how it is Fang Shixue, you have something. No wonder Fang Shirui can't beat you But without you No matter how awesome He is just an ant in front of our Yashang. Xiao Zhu, you can only choose me elder brother You lose The injury is mine. What do you mean Huan Ming Wanwan How could you How am I still alive? Yeah That time when Shi Xu and I went back to the old house It was discovered that there was something wrong with Wanwan's medicine I take medicine every day How is it now? Are you guys starting to think I'm crazy? It's obviously a drug for controlling emotions Why is my health getting worse after taking this medicine for so long? So I took some medicine and went back to check it out. I found out that the medicine you gave him was fake. After losing the weapon, people will become more and more frustrated. elder brother You're going to kill him. I didn't expect you to propose to me It's for the 10% of shares I hold. After Qiao Zhu found out that there was something wrong with my medicine Contact me immediately We staged a fake death. The play is to deceive you This is what exposes your true colors How could it be? How could it be? I am Qiao Wanwan Voluntarily donate all the shares in hand to Qiao Zhu Sign now Effective immediately Bro, I told you You always rush too much when planning Reveal flaws You lose again this time Bro, you lost again. Plus this 10% stake From now on, the eldest lady will be the absolute controlling shareholder of Asia Business. Why Why I just want you to stay by my side I am your brother I am the one who loves you in this world You just want to tie me up What you love most is yourself Cao Huaming We are arresting you for attempted murder. Please go back to the investigation Don't touch me, this is the leader Leader OK, I know. The operation of the eldest lady and master was successful He is awake now. It's really great Shi Xu I'm afraid I'm finally out of danger There is finally no obstacle between us. We will get better and better Um There's one thing I haven't done. Although we are married, Joe Lord will you marry me I do Now you are really my wife.