"All profound things and emotion of things Herman Melville In Western cultures, silence is commonly used One example prominent in Dutch culture is the silent Catholic walks in Amsterdam. This Catholic tradition was a reaction to Protestant establishment. A march in silence, without prayer, singing, prohibited, and so, a new ritual arose that As for the Silent Marches (often a response way that transcends the many hollow words 'culture of noise,' in which violence Similarly, the annual Remembrance of the Dead victims of wars and peacekeeping missions It's silence that makes these rituals so singing to distract oneself from the purpose. Moreover, what better resistance to the deafening engaging in mindless bloodshed is there besides And when words aren't sufficient, isn't The power of silence is versatile. Silence can transcend speech, speak without is lacking. And keeping silent also has advantages in and religious practice, achieving the upper intimidate. This video explores the power of silence, (1) The quieter you are, the more you hear. The mystic and poet Jalal al-Din Muhammad the more we're able to hear. From his mystical point of view, listening to God and hear a "voice that doesn't When we let go of all the words, we open ourselves continual verbal noise. These could be inner voices (as philosopher and outside voices and sounds that one misses We can listen effectively if we keep quiet, By keeping quiet, we become receptive to our We pay attention to what our senses observe, and wiser. If we refuse to keep quiet nor listen to what already know and don't learn anything. The ancient philosopher Pythagoras once stated: man by silence." Similarly, Lao Tzu wrote: "Those who know Those who talk do not know." Being quiet helps us learn about the environment that we would have skipped if we were too But it also allows us to gather information Often, people are so busy overthinking, worrying, down the underlying voices that are trying For example, we may forget to listen to our about specific health issues. Or we block ideas and solutions that are already our conscious minds generate too much noise. Keeping quiet can also lead to more philosophical, For example, generally, people tend to identify we are what we think we are; that the 'selves' us. In Buddhism, thoughts are one of the five for being ourselves. We are not our thoughts, according to the And if we quiet down and observe our thoughts, all our ideas, concepts, identifications, Hence, according to the Buddha, a fixed self But we only discover the illusory nature of recognize them for what they are. (2) Silence boosts creativity. The theoretical physicist Albert Einstein mind. When he couldn't come up with an idea, he'd (as he called it) and wait for the right information Therefore, like many other great minds, Einstein to his advantage. As he stated, and I quote: "The monotony creative mind." End quote. Executive director of the NeuroLeadership Psychology Today, stating that "An open He researches the so-called 'aha' moment or solution arises by itself. These 'aha' moments involve weaker, less are difficult to notice when other, louder I quote: Thus, we have insights when our overall activity This happens when we're either doing something when we're focusing on something repetitive, wake up. Insights require a quiet mind, because they End quote. So, it seems that we need to create the right For some people, this may be going for a walk to calming music. For others, like Einstein, it might be dwelling Many of the great minds of the past, like Tesla, worked alone in quiet places. (3) Silence can send a powerful message. In many cases, keeping quiet can send a much By responding to words with silence or using we're able to communicate effectively without The Dutch silent rituals exemplify how silence For example, during the Remembrance of the silence are always the most impactful moment and speeches by different people. Silence allows us to express what discourse The many words uttered, ideas shared and promises However, the power of silence as an answer amount of words do justice to what we seek that we're willing to stop talking and be Is there a better way of showing respect? In conversation, using silence can be powerful American author Mark Twain stated, and I quote: word was ever as effective as a rightly timed End quote. Academic research shows that silence in a approximately four seconds. Author of the book Cringeworthy: A Theory that awkward silences can be a powerful tool Dahl stated, and I quote: In researching my new book, Cringeworthy, I found that uncertainty is a big factor in These are life's unscripted moments, when or do next. It's a well-established finding in psychology uneasy. End quote. So, the uncertainty caused by such silences Did I say something wrong? Does this person dislike me? What's going to happen next? And so, the person on the receiving end of just to end the uneasiness of the uncertain And this decision could be beneficial to the right moment. Another benefit of keeping silent during conversations In some situations, whatever we say weakens For example, if we're part of a conversation In such cases, it's more powerful to listen: to learn but also because we don't make knowledgeable when we are not. Moreover, keeping silent shows that we're generally appreciate. Roman writer Publilius Syrus once stated: that I have been silent." (4) Silence improves well-being. How can one take refuge from a noisy world Innumerable experiences of many different helps us calm our busy minds. A significant body of research suggests that and lessens insomnia. Also, a study found that two minutes of silence relaxing music. Other studies show that environmental noise can cause disruptions in sleep structure. "Unnecessary noise is the most cruel absence wrote Florence Nightingale, an English social In an article on Psychology Today, author learned to tolerate noise and see it as something Noise means that the machines are working; running. But by tolerating this noise, we "make a Noise kills, and that excessive input does to function: an argument backed up by a copious Hence, to escape the unhealthy flow of information lives. Moments of silence improve overall well-being I quote: Release is what I'm truly craving here, The emptiness of silence, of lonely landscapes, room. The drop in tension that happens when we take zero gravity during orgasm, the psychic leap its head for a splinter of a second. Such void cuts off the fascist flow of constant To think better. To question, for a second, our baseline. It is really, really important to do that. End quote. Silence is minimalistic and empty, yet imposing We can't verbalize silence, but everyone It's all-encompassing: mysterious but clear, but rebellious, and elusive but accessible Thank you for watching.