Quick disclaimer: I'm moving to a new On Jun 11, 2023, a fuel tanker truck Interstate 95 in Northeast Philadelphia. The eventually causing it to collapse. Sadly, the but fortunately there were no other injuries PennDOT officials said that the southbound bridge demolished. All of I-95 through a major part and (as of this writing) the off-ramp underneath future as the bridges are rebuilt. Fires at for transportation engineers in the past, serious problem. The cost to rebuild I-95 may having the highway shut down for so long. Or what happened and how engineers think about is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, The details in the intro are really all the crashed below the bridge, eventually leading it by motorists on I-95 during the fire, probably road deck sagging significantly. Fortunately, highway before anyone was seriously injured. The crew on site to begin their investigation, but it will likely be a year or more before we get already. And in fact, even though we don't know seen similar collapses on several occasions. And In 2002, fire caused the main span of the I-20 meters or 10 feet, necessitating replacement fuel tanker. In 2006, a temporary part of the during a fire. Again, the cause of the fire was The MacArthur Maze Interchange in Oakland, crashed fuel tanker. 2009: A bridge over truck crashed into the overpass. 2013: A diesel Pennsylvania that had to be demolished. 2014: A destroying two overpass bridges. Of course, a tanker overturned in Rouen, France damaging requiring part of it to be replaced. And of tanker truck crashes. In 2017, a massive fire in collapse happened because someone set fire to Incredibly PennDot was able to reopen this with a pretty clever solution. Rather than wait get I-95 back open, they decided to simply the demolition of the fire-damaged bridges below the bridges remained closed so that Buckley &amp; Company, could fill the area in built a little model of this on his This temporary highway wasn't built using material used in roadway embankments (at so most roadway embankments have to be built as each layer is added to the top, a process that this case.) Plus there are sewer lines below the a mountain of backfill on top. Instead, the foamed glass aggregate. I have a whole video we of lightweight backfills and how they work, so foamed glass aggregate is not cheap, many times enough in compression to support the overlying which would lead to settlement over time have some of it here in the studio. It feels The other innovative design aspect of the on either side for the permanent repairs this off-ramp back open for travel, after all. The right-of-way to give as much space as possible replace the bridges. That also required that both in this case mechanically stabilized earth layer of backfill to keep the tall structure explaining MSE retaining walls if you want to in this drone footage. The reinforcement turns the to both withstand vertical loads and hold back little MSE cube many years back and put one of my Looks like the cube built by PennDOT To their credit, PennDOT kept a live feed of You can see the flurry of activity as workers level of the highway on either side. Traffic starting June 24th. But, why did a fire We, collectively, put a tremendous amount of of buildings and tunnels, but when it comes to most bridges in the world are designed fire resistance. Neither the Eurocode or the any guidelines or requirements for how or when to thermo-mechanical behavior of bridges all the and contraction of large structures. But, when you been much consideration. And the reasons for that Less then 3% of US bridge failures between that to hydraulic damage from scour and failures. That alone isn't enough reason to earthquakes make up only 2% of those resources and engineering to design you also have to consider safety. Even people are rarely injured because most places have closed well before a fire is able to significantly serious fires at bridges and their unlikelihood don't devote a lot of resources to the problem The National Fire Protection Association but it's nebulous. They don't recommend what bridge against fire, or how to analyze a structure bridges longer than 1000 feet or 300 meters. When these long-span structures over major valleys or the tip of the iceberg when it comes to bridges. bridges in service today, and nearly all of them separation (to let streams of traffic cross each structures you traverse every day without even these bridges is taken out of service. Bridges fires because, unlike the ones over waterways, the fire is most likely to cause damage. But A robust engineering guideline for design pretty complicated. There are so many different have any collective agreement about what level of source, footprint, flame height, intensity, and can try to predict the response. How does the heat through radiation and convection, and how much do a result? These are tough questions to answer heart of the matter, because what we really care What happens to the material properties in temperature way beyond what they were how does the overall structure behave? You loss of stiffness, load redistribution, and a lot just to characterize through engineering, And the biggest question right now seems to be problems. As I mentioned, they rarely result roadway is closed ahead of failure. But and if you regularly drive on I-95 in Philadelphia you definitely know what I'm talking about. but the indirect costs that come are often higher. When the MacArthur Maze the indirect costs of having the bridge out was way more than the cost of reconstruction. a bonus to the contractor for each day ahead of has a great story about how they got that bridge Road construction often seems slow, the costs down. It's not very efficient to engineers, and specialty construction resources get spread across many jobs so that busy. Even if seemingly slow progress is less a result of incompetence or corruption be good stewards of limited public resources. Fabricators, equipment suppliers, painters, willing to set aside their other obligations will happily devote their engineers and inspectors on a single job if the politicians can deliver "accelerated construction." It comes at a steep Like the MacArthur Maze, I-95 is a busy vehicle trips per day. Some of that but some of the capacity was simply lost deliveries were cancelled, workers emergency response times went up, and more. The but there were still some major slowdowns. closing a major highway has real economic lost productivity, lost retail sales, more wear the detour traffic, and a lot more. And those whether or not its worth it to include fire But what's on the other side of that equation? protect this one bridge in Philly from a tanker it have been worth the cost of protecting all the infrastructure where it's not really needed? demand, but we also know the corollary. Reducing alternatives to making trips in cars, and big a deal as the politicians and news coverage in our transportation infrastructure and giving good than putting that money toward protecting Like a lot of things in engineering, the costs and out. Your answer might depend on how many fuel The International Associaiton for Bridge and guidelines for designing bridges against fire fire protection in the design codes, but it will resistance in designs where the situation calls work later in 2023, but hopefully PennDot is It's easy to look at a big city like Philadelphia wrap your head around how it grew into the the result of millions of little decisions and urban planners. But every once in a while, almost serendipitous, like the canals of Venice, Metro System in Shanghai. My friend Dave from the the biggest moments in the greatest cities on built out the world's largest metro system in less Maybe you've noticed what I have over the past networks are just running reality shows, and watching is being made my independent creators. but my absolute favorite videos are made by people up. Dan of the Coding Train is college professor a lawyer. And Dave of City Beautiful is an urban something special about videos that are written of someone who just knows how to produce a video. Nebula, the streaming platform built by and for Nebula is the answer to the question of what didn't have to cater to an algorithm. What if of supporting their advertisers? And it totally ad-free videos from excellent educational be found anywhere else, and even classes from Eagle and Thomas Frank. And right now, you link below. That's less than $3 a month. My come out on YouTube. If watching videos like you should have the best viewing experience on free like it is right now at the link below. Thank