Hey, it's Dallas, time for and it is time for a another rendition of analyzing a scene. Last time I analyzed the and today we are going to analyze the final scene of episode two. This is where we take some some of my favorite scenes, and I give you a kind of into how the scene was written, some of the things that happened on the day that we were filming it, the meaning behind the scene. We just do a deep dive from season one. And as usual, please comment below with the scenes that you wanna see. The last time I did get a few of them that we're definitely going but if you've got any scenes, particularly scenes that maybe maybe smaller scenes or scenes that aren't kind of the big active scenes, if you'd like to see those analyzed, please let me know in the comments. And below the video, there and there is a notification bell. Please click on those. That is how we get this channel and how we get these in front of more people, and it's also how you can be notified anytime we have a new video. All right, so I'm gonna of episode two. This is one of my favorite scenes because episode two is when people really start Episode one is a lot of setup. Episode one ends with this big moment where Mary is redeemed, and that kind of launches and they get really excited about it. Well, episode two is when You're now getting to know the characters. You're now getting to love them. There was an earlier scene in episode two where Mary encounters and that's actually got in the entire show. That's when Mary says to Nicodemus... - I was one way, and now I am completely different. And the thing that happened - Which is an epic line written by my co-writer, Tyler Thompson. This final scene of episode two where we see the Shabbat dinner lived out from multiple different people are all experiencing this tradition that has been going back for thousands of years. In fact, we portrayed of episode two. The reason we did that how long this tradition has gone and how important it was And we're gonna see are quoting the same prayers and practicing the same traditions, the actual execution of for different people. And so that's what we was the through line of this tradition and how similar it was, but how different it And then, of course, focusing on which one Jesus actually shows up at. Where I'm gonna begin is when Mary actually opens the door to her house. She's heard the knock, that's actually obviously but she's heard the and she sees a man that she recognizes. And so we're gonna start right there with the door opening. - [Jesus] Hello, Mary. - That look when Mary I remember my dad mentioning that to me when he saw that in a trailer, he said, &quot;That makes me, &quot;that look alone is going to cause me &quot;to invest in this project.&quot; People have described It's a beautiful But opening the door that had changed her life, but still not knowing exactly who he is or what he's doing, there's a lot summed And the fact that Jesus stands there and just has a, himself, a normal look. Jonathan Roumie plays Jesus, does such a beautiful job And when she opens the door, it's not like there's and it's not like he's He's just a guest, and he's waiting for her to let him in, and obviously there's But one of my favorite is that we create a bit of awkwardness, which I think is rarely - Hello. - It's good to see you. - Yes. Yes. - [Dallas] Awkward pause. - I don't want to be rude, but would it be okay if I...? - Oh, yes, of course, please come in. I just never thought you'd... I have guest here. - Okay, so a couple of Number one, I love again the awkwardness, the fact that they're, and we really tried to bring humor. Humor is a very important I believe that humor enhances The scenes that are we don't let them go too long because that actually gives the audience a bit of a breather, but also makes the emotional moments even more impactful. But it also really and you'll see this later but seeing Jesus act human, which is very realistic and we know that he was but that doesn't mean all of the same things that we experience in normal everyday life. And so, one of the things is Mary saying, &quot;Yes.&quot; So Jesus says, &quot;It's good to see you,&quot; and she says, &quot;Yes.&quot; That's a very common thread I'm not sure where it came from, why I decided to do that. I just think it summed up the kind of awe that people have when they So when Jesus first encounters Andrew, well, it's not the first but when he's talking to him on the boat in episode four and he says, &quot;It's good to see you, Andrew,&quot; and Andrew just says, &quot;Yes.&quot; You'll see that a lot in season one. Multiple people, when or when he says something they have nothing to Matthew says that to in episode seven. This is one of the first indications of that trend happening often. But that awkwardness is very important and I think that it to the show being seen by many people as an authentic portrayal of the humanity of all these people, including And then you see also Mary starts to do what I'm even doing now. I'm not doing it because I'm nervous, but she's doing it because she is. You start to talk, and you start to talk in clipped ways. You don't finish your sentences per se, and that's also very human and natural. And that's one of the things in the script itself, we will write in those pauses, we will write in those hesitations, those incomplete sentences because that is a more Now we see-- - [Mary] It is my first time-- - [Dallas] The introduction - Rabbi. - Rabbi. - You already know these men? - They are students of mine. I trust they have been polite? - Of course. - And of course she says, &quot;Of course.&quot; She's now said that a I just thought that would be a funny way of showing her nervousness and that she just keeps saying that word. But this is the introduction that we see of Jesus, And again, I thought that was just, just be an interesting kind of an innocuous way without making a big deal out of it. More awkward silence. - Your guests can take - Oh, of course. Yes, of course. Please have a seat. I keep saying of course a lot. - That line right there, &quot;I keep saying of course a lot,&quot; I remember when we were it's a very heavy role, it's a very intense role, and I wanted to know that people, whoever was gonna play this role was gonna be able to deliver that moment. Because there are multiple actresses who can do some of the and the intensity and the emotion, but also, not all of And timing is a huge part of comedy. And so when Liz was auditioning, one of the things I wanted to see was if she could make this scene light instead of so heavy. And she did, of course, and that's what I love about Liz, and what I love about this performance and this character, is that she's got different shades. And so, not always just heavy. This is the first indication of seeing Mary actually be funny. And this line of, &quot;I just I just think is a very human moment. And now we're about to of Mary's inexperience with this. Growing up as a girl, she no doubt would have All Jews experienced but Mary has fallen away and is now coming back to it, and so maybe she wouldn't everything that she experienced. - Friends, this is the who helped me. - Oh, yes. Yeah, Mary told us so much about you. - Oh, I hope not too much. - I'm Barnaby, this is Shula. She is blind. - In case you couldn't tell. - [Dallas] One of my favorite - I'm so sorry, I don't - I'm Jesus of Nazareth. - Well, apparently something good can come from Nazareth. (laughing) What? - And there it is. Okay, so two moments that One is Barnaby making a And the one before that to Shula and he says, &quot;She is blind.&quot; I remember just loving that. I remember when I wrote it, I was thinking I really hope that whoever plays this part can nail that moment 'cause I Again, just the complete lack of guile, the complete lack of social He's just saying it how it is. And this actor, Aalok, and funny, and intuitive, and intelligent, and so he delivered that so beautifully. I just love it. And I then, of course, about Nazareth and no one else laughs, and everyone's looking at Jesus to see how he's gonna respond, and Jesus winks at him. Now, a few people were Some people were uncomfortable behave in that manner, didn't think that winking was something that would have been done back then, which there's no evidence but also just uncomfortable And I think that's actually what's drawn so many people to the show. And that wink alone has as almost any other moment in the series, is Jesus winking, I think, to feel such warmth to and and realizing that that's exactly the kind of thing Jesus would have done. He wouldn't have taken things sensitively. And I think all of us need to work harder at being cool with jokes. I think sometimes we have more than we have a negativity and we read into things. And I think Barnaby's making a joke, it's done with warmth and with fun. He's actually saying and of course, Jesus can take it. And that's one of the has happened right then and there, because I think that set the tone for the rest of season one. - Mary, I'm honored to be here. Why don't you begin. - Oh no, I couldn't. Now that you're here, you must. - Thank you, but this is your home, and I would love for you to do it. - [Dallas] Get used to different. That's a key part of this scene. It's very different for a to read first of all, but to also lead a Shabbat dinner. Very, very rare, if it ever happened, and Jesus is already causing people to get used to different. - The heavens and the earth were completed and all their hosts, and God completed on the seventh day His work that He did, and God abstained on the seventh day from all the work he did. - And here you see that Nicodemus and Mary are saying the same thing. I remember when I was feeding Eric who plays in the lines 'cause it was just too much to memorize and unnecessary to do so, but we wanted to show here, as you see Matthew runs into the dog, and Noah's leading, Noah who plays Andrew, is leading Shabbat, Andrew and Nicodemus 'cause they've done it so many times, but Mary is doing it for the first time in a long time, and so she's reading it. And so we loved that juxtaposition. And then here, Matthew a huge moment. And just that simple moment, I remember when we wrote these scenes, I had this visual for sure in my mind of the different Shabbat dinners all playing back to back, and the significant differences in them. And one of the key was Matthew sitting in front of a dog and the dog sharing his food. Now dogs at that time were Jews especially saw dogs as filthy. There was no, there was with dogs that we have today. And putting Matthew on really said a lot visually, and made a big statement. And I think the loneliness of Matthew was portrayed beautifully by Paras. Now when we were shooting that, it was very difficult to get the dog to cooperate and to sit still. So that was not easy. But putting food on the ground and the dog eating the ground made it, at least this scene, doable. - [Mary] Memory of creation. - [Dallas] Of course, Simon leaving the Shabbat meal, and this is a very huge no-no. Working on Shabbat was as big of a sin almost as you could think of at that time. - [Mary] King of the-- - So I'll pause it there. So was it likely that Simon would have worked on Shabbat? Maybe not. That would've been considered that it's possible that One of our biblical consultants, Messianic Rabbi, Jason Sobel, one of his notes on it was he didn't think that that was likely. But I do think it was plausible because I do think we was so desperate and that he was willing to do almost anything and financially desperate, and I think that it caused where he was willing to do things that he might not normally do. And the fact that his wife and his brother were so bothered by it, in my opinion, illustrated just how serious - Who brings forth the Amen. - [All] Amen. - Amen. - And that's the end of the scene. We ended up showing at a kind of a tag moment where and the Roman soldiers show up, and we wanted to end the scene on a bit of an ominous note as well as a bit of a cliffhanger so that you're interested picks up in episode four, to wonder what Simon exactly is doing with these Roman soldiers. But that moment of them and just the quiet of it, I just loved it so much. And just seeing these our cinematographer try saying that 10 times fast, does a beautiful job of portraying it. And some people thought I know if you watch it on your computer, it might be a little dark, and some TVs, it might be dark, but back then, all they had and so it would've been I think some of the scenes which I think are beautiful. But we also wanted to show the difference between the wealthy religious elite at Nicodemus's house, and the poor, the Jewish common people in their homes. Which one did Jesus choose to be at? He chose to be at the where there was this kind including someone who is blind to someone who was crippled. Jesus's two followers, Thaddeus and little James are there. But Jesus comes to the homes of maybe the least of these. He didn't show up at the home where maybe the religious All right, so I hope and that breakdown and analysis of it. Please consider subscribing and hitting that notification bell. And remember, get used to different. I'm wearing this shirt because it's one of our You can get that shirt www.thechosenmerch.com. But it's also a motto of this show, and I hope that you will consider getting used to different Before I go, just remember this as always, it's not your job to feed the 5,000, it's only to provide the loaves and fish.