Sly Cooper is a series that full stop will When it released, it was treated to decent third wheel to its spiritual older brothers out before Ratchet. It was predominantly in hindsight that fans Trinity" of PlayStation 2 platformers, but And yet, the Cooper Gang pound for pound might three. It's a series that brought real stakes to from the serialized episodic chapters of each players that kept coming back by building characters and the open world hub areas combined. And it's a franchise whose DNA is oh so since and really, into the DNA of the studio Sly Cooper is also the very first game I reviewed that first video and covered the entire franchise gave review scores. And although the series currently lays dormant, game and a movie-turned-cartoon that's supposedly 2019 release date by over two years now...thanks bit more that I can add to the legacy of Sly So, I've remastered these videos with that the ultimate video covering the entire series. P-well...probably not, but it sounds nice, Without further ado, this is the Sly Cooper Although the first Sly game released in 2002, back in 1997. Sucker Punch Productions was first founded to pursue a career in game development, wanting than one of the biggest companies in the world. Despite having almost zero collective game on making a cute 3D platformer for the N64, only had a handful of games coming out per Released as Rocket: Robot on Wheels in 1999, as the first console game to use a proper non-developers - it also featured an evil for the studio's next protagonist. Now, not knowing how to pitch a game, how begin with, just having no clue how the industry production themselves, and started pitching that'd listen, including Sony. Yes, they pitched a Nintendo 64 game to the of, there's a Wipeout game on N64 developed PlayStation execs did like the project, but I'll talk more about that game some other important thing for now is that Sucker Punch learned to partner up with a publisher right - and learned exactly what they wanted to So they narrowed down and focused on a more of a raccoon thief as the hero...just because a mask over his little mask face. How can you not love these folks already? This of course is 2002's Sly Cooper and Sly Cooper is the latest child born into a The Cooper clan was renowned for pulling some from those who abused their wealth. Each Cooper journaled his or her skills into and improve upon: The Thievious Racoonus. However, millennia of stealing from high profile Not sure how, raccoons are adorable. Look at that, can you hate that face? Well apparently, a gang known as the Fiendish the Coopers. Led by the mysterious gigantic owl, Clockwerk, stole the Thievius Raccoonus. Wait, how did they even get through the door? Clockwerk's got a wingspan of like 50 feet. Well, however they did it, they killed Sly's cowering in a closet. With no family left to care for him, Sly was friends, Bentley and Murray. Together, the trio began a long journey to history. This is where Sly 1 begins. The Cooper Gang starts off in Paris, where the office of Carmelita Fox, one of Interpol's After making off with the file, they find themselves and spread across the world. With that, the Gang travels to all the corners Five, retrieves the section of the Thievius crashes the joint. There's Raleigh, the genius frog engineer; Ruby, the voodoo savant alligator; the revenge-hungry Clockwerk. What's interesting about these villains went on their separate paths; there was no off the Cooper lineage. I find this sort of marriage of convenience especially for a kid's game. That alone just adds to the experience in As we'll see going forward with this series, and a little real. After working their way across the world and gang find Clockwerk's lair in Russia. They head in, fighting past multiple security MOON], with Sly even saving a trapped Carmelita. The two form a temporary alliance to take Before taking the owl down, Sly learns his thousands of years ago, slighted by one of the Clan ever since. He's gone as far as to replace his entire living entirely on his hatred. He founded the Fiendish Five in order to execute to prove that he was the world's greatest He even kept Sly alive to show that without It's actually a brilliant plan, and explains Of course, that's the only part of his brilliant a bit as Sly shoots him. Didn't...didn't think that one all the He's probably still concussed from hitting ago. Either way, Sly takes Clockwerk down, at which Sly a 10 second headstart to escape. The gang runs off with the now-complete Thievius Overall, I love the story in this game. Within each hub, almost every mission builds and makes the world feel more genuine. Sly lives up to his name, always being calm Not to mention he's always especially suave Bentley is neurotic and constantly warning finds a way to help his buddy with intel. Murray...well, I'll be honest, I'm really game. All he is is a big, stupid teddy bear. Everything involving Murray shows that he's trouble. He just feels flat in Sly 1, a characteristic That's really the only significant gripe Sly 1, like the rest of the series, feels particularly drags, jumping from episode to Shut up, I don't wanna talk about it yet. Sly's story absolutely earns a Golden Bolt The way I often like to describe the first in the Crash Bandicoot franchise, with added Like Crash, it's a level-based 3D platformer Like Crash, Sly has very limited health here, Some of the setpieces just come off in a very Maybe it's just me, but the more I look a PS2 update of everybody's favorite bandicoot. Not everything is 1:1, of course. For example, in addition to the basic X to share, Triangle is used for special thief Circle, meanwhile, is the "do everything" Seriously, if you're ever not sure about press the circle button. I promise. Additionally, whereas Crash always felt weighty, give the players and the game time to breathe This floatiness works in the game's favor, His motions are fluid, especially for a PS2 risking the entire game on an action button, rarely messes up on you. The big fork where Sly splits off from our a focus on stealth. Sneaking around is always optional, though, obstacles. These advanced players are even rewarded in trial challenge. However, even the most experienced players you're dead. If you collect enough coins throughout the to give you an extra hit, and it even stacks Not that it really matters; lives are plentiful over. Even if you do die on a level more than two gimme horseshoe. On paper, this all sounds simple, and maybe the PS1, but we're in the next generation Well, thankfully Sly thrives on its level Missions are incredibly varied and always level where you sneak by in a barrel, to many Without interesting levels and setpieces to would fall apart immediately. Thankfully Sucker Punch realized this and Moreover, to add even more depth to the experience, hidden clue bottles. Collect all of them, and you get a code for the Thievious Racoonus. These powerups are entirely supplementary, power. Later on, there ARE some really useful ones, really just cool incentives to search each Like I said, this game absolutely shines as The key problem with Sly 1 is that doesn't Of the 40 levels in the game, about a third Those levels consist of either Murray racing by Sly as he runs towards a key, or some other your treasure. And these missions as a whole just suuuck. They, almost without fail, need to be played Not because of any genuine difficulty, it's layout, spending a few tries getting a grip rubber band, or just plain luck. I've beaten this game so many times, and me. It's a shame, because these missions kill Raleigh's stage is a fantastic tutorial consistently from level to level. From Muggshot onward, two or three of the Pretty much the entire final world is just Ruby's fight is just friggin' DDR, except off. Pro-tip: Just mash the buttons, there's Credit to the game, sometimes it has a funny this mission where we have to hack into Clockwerk's We have to run over exactly 60 computers, Why do we have to race, you might be asking, Yes. [THERE ARE ONLY 119 LINE]. When the game does something right, MAN does There are levels that get my blood pumping, a master thief, but there are also levels time. Not that I'm wasting a ton of time, the hours. Sly 1 lives and dies on the Sly sections - it even though it would have been a FANTASTIC Instead, it's a good platformer held back I'm gonna give the gameplay a Bronze Bolt. While Sly 1 often falters in its substance, Upon starting the game, we're treated to Carmelita's office. The game overlays the main menu on top of the roof of the Interpol station. If you're starting a new file, you jump They ham it up right away, too, showing text of the game as you proceed through this intro. Again, Sly has always had that Saturday morning Like a weekend cartoon, the voice acting can exactly a showstopping performance, and I'm through with this marathon. Overall it's fairly solid, especially for Kevin Miller's delivery as Sly always a heart of the series for me. There's good humor in the dialogue and the Yeah, I might hate the janky vehicle controls, he saw a food stand nearby? That's funny enough to make me give it a . Each chapter is bookended with comic-style boss, and forward the plot. Sucker Punch does a superb job of building When it comes to the in-game models, the animation most satisfying thump to it. Sly always feels like a thief with his low of his movement. Hell, according to Sucker Punch's Nate Fox, is still repurposed to simulate fabrics waving Levels rarely seem to repeat themselves visually, and the world looks bright even though the You might run into a couple graphical quirks the experience. Whether you play it on PS2 or PS3 it's genuinely Completing the package, it sounds great too. When Sly slowly crawls up behind an enemy, plays to match his footsteps. Most tracks have a jazzy groove to them to vulnerable as a young, inexperienced thief. Let's take Prowling the Grounds for example: it sets the tone so well. The track hides several layers behind the and weak at any given point. The background constantly has white noise weather machine. The sound of water dripping frequently throughout, might just be somebody turning to discover Foliage seems to crackle as if there's something It's so impressive to me that such a wonderful word. These layers to each song come with the downside music than anything else. The levels in Muggshot's Mesa City casino you feel uneasy when trekking through Haiti's but it's hard to throw too many of these That said, this is the kind of game where under a lesser composer, but each area sounds That's all you can ask with a soundtrack I think the coolest thing in terms of presentation In an addition almost entirely unique to this a developer commentary that optionally plays. In these, members of the team discuss design development of said level, or even something As someone who actually uses audio commentary feature is incredibly cool and adds to the little secret about the game. It might not be the best completion bonus show that the developers saw this game as All in all, Sucker Punch does a great job as well. The weakest aspect is the music, but I can't as an assistance rather than a focus. And some of that is also me just being spoiled in Sly's sequels. SLY 1 POST-RELEASE When Sony picked up the pitch for Sly 1, the to co-founder Brian Fleming: Sell half a million Thankfully, both of those goals came to pass, talked about and coveted over the years that However, the thing is, there's actually Sly, in that the games were never exactly This goes back to Sly being put on the pedestal that Sucker Punch gets to Naughty Dog and well because we love them today, but the truth the shadows. According to internal data, inFamous Second the entire Sly Cooper franchise. The numbers can differ a bit depending on have listed Sly 1 as eventually racking up by Sanzaru during Sly 4's original pitch way they're great numbers...that don't A year after Sly 1 released, it entered the obviously it's gotta be a hit. Except I hope you already know this, it's for a PS2 Greatest Hit were that the game 400,000 units in the US. The games would then be republished with the to encourage further sales and in turn hopefully of, say, a sequel. And make no mistake, Sly 2 entered production shipped - Sucker Punch may have had a sales know that they wanted more and they knew just It's a good strategy, especially when you're how many copies of a game get produced and best sellers, and although this helps make came from the bargain bin...this far out, got to try the game for cheap and fell in for the team at Sucker Punch who are now consistently game of the year contenders, it's a win. I just find a lot of this to be important seems to go ignored. As far as I've found, no Sly game ever received sales actually improving in the region game Korea, Sly 1 and 2 underperformed in Japan received a Japanese version until the HD Collection And yet, again despite this, Sony kept pushing studio they had no stake in yet. Sly received numerous marketing pushes in this first game received awards for being and this developer continued to, pardon the That's in my opinion why Sony greenlit a it's what you see, and what you see in Sucker Two years after the events of Sly 1, the gang's of Natural History, where the newest exhibit Knowing first-hand the danger that Clockwerk's Murray attempt to steal Clockwerk's parts However, when Sly gets to the exhibition room, The parts had already been taken, and Carmelita to the scene of the crime. After Carmelita accuses Sly of the Clockwerk that the Klaww gang could be the ones that Naturally, the Cooper gang escapes the ensuing gang. If they've got the parts, they're definitely Sadly, it turns out that assumption is correct: don't just sit on their victory after their Instead, each member pushes forward in several parts to expedite the process. For example, Dimitri uses the Clockwerk tail pace, driving himself to fortune; Jean Bison of trees for his logging venture; and Rajan drugs. I'm not even exaggerating, his spice ring slightly more PG name. Sly 2 isn't messing around. Don't forget, this game was rated E. The Cooper gang isn't messing around, either, by Constable Neyla, piece by piece they take take down each member of the Klaww gang, and the entire Klaww gang's operation. One thing I love about Sly 2 is that these and the crew. More often than not, the game's episodes member of the Klaww gang escapes to fight This makes them feel so much more formidable original game. By the time you get to that boss fight, you've or more hours, you've seen them develop, become full-fledged characters rather than When it's not guaranteed that the Cooper a couple times, it makes those victories feel On the subject of satisfying, it's time Click ahead to this point in the video if again do keep in mind that Sly 3 is going After taking down Dimitri and right near the Neyla betrays Sly, leading to him and Murray She also frames Carmelita of helping the Cooper Despite having to fight off his fears and that the Contessa, Carmelita's boss, is working to brainwash Carmelita so that she After saving her and putting the Contessa the Klaww gang, until they sneak their way where Clockwerk has been fully reassembled. This is where it all comes together masterfully: to place himself into Clockwerk's body to piece of the puzzle: Hate. As we know, Clockwerk had survived for millennia were able to sustain themselves even after So, Arpeggio and his protege, Neyla, created Rajan's spice opened the minds of its users All the Contessa needed was a huge amount Jean Bison had been chosen to siphon the light With all these pieces in place, Arpeggio planned had consumed massive quantities Rajan's After they would be hypnotized, the Parisians fuel Clockwerk's frame. And if you thought it ended there, you'd specifically tipped Sly off to the Klaww gang's Sly, Bentley, and Murray stole back every them a sitting duck...er, owl, for Neyla and The entirety of the game up to this point the Cooper gang had done was itself a setup, double-crosses Arpeggio and enters Clockwerk's I kid you not, she calls herself Clock-la. It makes sense that after all this, she'd that Arpeggio had set this entire plan in feels weak to just write him off in an instant Neyla's lack of motivation here is the sole Obviously, Sly takes Clock-la down, yet again Upon crashing in Paris, Murray opens Clockwerk's the hate chip once and for all, but Murray's crushed under the weight of Clockwerk's (KISS ME, K-KISS ME) No, seriously, he's I told you, this game isn't messing around. Murray is able to pry Clockwerk open and grab the hate chip. Suddenly, all of the Clockwerk parts wilt, and Carmelita naturally moves to arrest the Sly bargains with her to let Bentley and Murray Murray carries the limp Bentley away, and helicopter. This is where Sly 2 comes to a close. Band of Thieves takes a massive leap after more detailed, and clearly darker story, as We see the Cooper gang pushed to its limit even outsmart our heroes; there is so much all, I don't know that I'd do it justice. The villains are even better than those from His mannerisms, such as his dialogue being and slang, led to him becoming a fan favorite Sly game. The heroes are fleshed out significantly as and Murray actually getting a character. Instead of just eating and being dumb, now a superhero named The Murray. It's fantastic. This whole story is fantastic. Yes, it sort of limps a little bit near the by the ending. Besides that one tripping point, Sly 2 tells I'm still shocked sometimes that this kind for children. It approaches mature subjects and treats them kids could handle it. It's designed in such a way that it's I could keep gushing, but it probably goes Bolt for Sly 2's story. Get ready for some more gushing. Sly 2 is about as good a second outing as It's far grander in scale, it's far deeper me start from the beginning. Take everything from the first game and throw It's no longer a stealthy, linear, Crash with, we've gone open world baby, and it's first time, Bentley and Murray are full-on It is called Band of Thieves, after all. I'll get into those two in a bit. While Sly 1 was a tight platformer with light unique, 2 moves much deeper into that stealth even adding beat-em-up action gameplay. Instead of being a one hit KO, Sly and the fight if you get caught. You can much more easily sneak up behind enemies, cane. Pickpocketing will always earn you more coins and some enemies even have loot in their pockets On top of this, missions are more likely to missions in Band of Thieves are all interconnected. See, the 8 different overworlds of Sly 2 are gang or their Klaww gang target. Despite being relatively small, they're Guards are prowling the grounds and the rooftops, Each locale has one or multiple setpieces Throughout the levels there are even expensive to the safe house. Getting hit will break them though, so you Some of these are booby-trapped, too, so you've them before you explode! Almost every inch is used at some point before And then, of course, there's the main goodies Rather than having multiple sets of bottles bottles, and they generally provide a much Sly 1's power-ups were nice, but often they In Band of Thieves, there are still a few gonna find yourself using a bunch of them. Namely, because Sly 2 allows you to hotkey buttons per character, no more clumsily rotating Having a combat dodge to easily slide by attacks useful, or a smoke bomb to make a hasty escape, so you can sneak by without getting into an There's also a couple secret gadgets only lets you throw a miniature Tom from Toonami Come on, that's just cool. Bentley and Murray also have their own sets while. My favorite though, is the stealth slide. I don't know why, I just love sliding through so much more satisfying than sprinting by Now, you might be asking where all these powers 8 sets of bottles compared to the dozens in That brings me back to that loot, those treasures, Sly 2 introduces the Thief Net, an online stolen goods and buy new gadgets. Yet again, many of these are optional, but pickpocketing whenever you can, smashing everything for treasure. All the while, you're learning the world creating moments that'll come back to you So, so many games have a lifeless open world, when it happens. Sly 2 absolutely never has that problem for Part of that is because many of the missions being its own level. You'll follow the Klaww gang members around you'll track guard patterns, you'll plant Sometimes it's even an actual bug! There are also many interior missions, that You'll ransack the inside of Rajan's guest for example. With a few exceptions, all of the game's ones do a great job at further helping these The interiors are wonderful for breaking up No matter what, they often show that Sucker one. Many people have said it before, but Sly 2 Creed games, except for kids. Although if you know how the game ends, I On top of this, there are a series of high-octane 2's big train setpiece by half a decade. I'm not saying Sly directly inspired either interesting to note. Althooough, Sly and Nathan Drake are rivals who can destroy more trains. The missions play another key part in this And this is where I get to bring in Bentley Each member of the Cooper gang will have his missions plays into the characters' strengths Sly, obviously, is going to be sneaking around, Bentley and Murray are too weak and too big sort of stuff like that. Instead, Bentley acts as the demolitions expert the enemy infrastructure, be it physical or When in his binocucom he can fire darts with He can drop or throw bombs at will, too, and of his trusty RC chopper to do the bombing Later he'll unlock an array of crossbow turn them into health, among other things. Murray, meanwhile, does the heavy lifting When he's not fighting off waves of enemies, haul around, like a giant priceless gem or Murray's a total tank in combat, punching, - by buying stuff on ThiefNet, he can unlock screaming, or just lighting his fists on fire While players still control Sly for about to each Episode. See, while Sly 1 focused on individual missions 2 really drives home the idea that the missions We're not just earning keys that we need in 2 is one piece of the puzzle, no matter If Bentley says this water tower is a giant And these Episodes all culminate in a big together and executing their own tasks. Swapping between Sly, Bentley, and Murray in these levels. The payoff for the past hour or two of work single bit that you did had an impact. It was a risk expanding the scale by this it. The Episode structure does have some repeated recon in every chapter, you're likely going going to follow Neyla around a handful of important secret that'll help you in the heist. However, despite having some greatest hits and in the sequels, Sly 2's mission design If it's an old concept, you'll be doing are practically brand new even if they do break stuff. The only missions I don't really care for on the easy side and the controls are kind That, like my other gripes with the game, While we're talking about them, let's hand-in-hand: When you select the Abandon back to the Safehouse - the main reason I it and found a treasure sitting around that Safehouse is just tedious. You can't actually return treasure to the to deliver treasure, you have to enter the default. When you're IN the safehouse, there's active missions, so you sometimes have to to re-enter and change characters again. And lastly, Bentley and Murray infrequently well enough for them. It's very rare, really only once or twice your way with one of these characters to reach like Sly can. Later on, this issue is mitigated by Murray's but Bentley's in particular comes pretty The same goes for their inability to pickpocket, can get loot and reliably farm for coins. Do these all kind of suck? Yeah, in my opinion they do. Do they take away from the game's magic? Absolutely not. I don't hesitate one bit to call Band of The mission progression is spot-on; the gadget-progression bit of loot grinding at the very end if you feels unique, while also feeling like a member Each member has at least one boss fight, several out of the series. Yet again, one or two small stumbles don't games of all time. Band of Thieves earns another Golden Bolt. I've said it before, and I'll say it again: like a playable cartoon. Everything, from the episodic nature of the attention without dragging on for too long, remember the Cooper gang long after they're Sly 2 takes this a step further, turning the screen, allowing the player to decide when The comic-style intros and outros are back by more in-game cutscenes as well as Bentley's Both of these set different tones and allow than the first game. Sly chatting with Carmelita before a ballroom romance while also keeping the player a bit or if Murray drops the Clockwerk wings during It's great stuff. ("COOPER" LINE) Oh...yeah, okay it's Carmelita has a new voice actress and she She just sounds so forced, I'd argue it's What's even worse is the same voice actress miles ahead of her Carmelita. Thankfully, the rest of the voice cast returns fit right in with them. Actually, each of the Cooper gang improves comes off as more experienced; Bentley starts the field, but over time really comes out The Murray is exactly what he needed. Another wonderful touch is that in these short thanks to some improved character models. In the first game, Sly in particular had these huge eyes. They fit his character, of course. Since Sly 2 moves into a deeper direction, subtle facial structure. This is most apparent in the Binocucom scenes, it's a tiny bit jarring to go back. Likewise, so much of the rest of the game Enemies look more menacing, and there are Each Klaww gang member has at least three has its own feel, both in and out of combat. Hell, Rajan has actual elephants roaming around, animals in a world dominated by anthropomorphic That gets even darker when you see the moose moose or is that one a guard that said the That's giving me the creeps I'm out of I saved my game, don't punish me. Oh you did not just do that, now it's on! "Bentley's palms are sweaty, shell's Getting into fights with Mr. Resetti, mom's He's nervous, but on the surface he looks But he keeps fighting resetti" Of course, the attempt at going for a grander There's a decent amount of pop-in on certain Generally, the game's also a bit buggier They're usually very small bugs that don't noteworthy regardless. My favorite is when enemies are instantly only like ten feet. Be warned, there IS one specific mission where I've had two separate crashes in this bear vaguely remember the same crash happening Thankfully, Sly 2's very good about its entirely is a bit a minus, I would say. The last thing I'll touch on here is the up from Sly 1. Each overworld and most of the interiors have as background music, these become another Sly 2 introduces the Sly Cooper theme, a piece Sly 1 review and most of you probably didn't with the series. Essentially every overworld theme in the entire to the Sly theme. This keeps firmly planted in your mind, no playing a Sly game. It might sound like it'd get annoying, but an excellent job of differentiating itself, at some point. Sly 2 almost completes the trifecta, the story the presentation is right up there too. However, there are a lot of those little bugs they're not harming the game. Those plus that big crash and Carmelita's to lop at least something off of the score Band of Thieves for its presentation will Now stop me if you've heard this one before: mascot platformer sequel, and with the PlayStation firing on all cylinders, working on a title was greenlit before the second had finished do it. Now the difference here is that Sucker Punch team, a one-project studio that ensured everybody It's why later when Sucker Punch pitched studio management requested a budget that costs, while making clear that it was going instead not to ramp up with temporary or new And inFamous is important here, because Sucker that with the new console right around the This meant that Sly 3 was going to be Sucker off a full year from their usual production a bang. But did they succeed, or did Sly 3 try to Unlike the previous games in the series, Sly of the game. The Cooper Gang is working a new heist, attempting This previously unknown vault had been home and it was time for the gang to claim Sly's It's not just the Cooper Gang as we know has added several more members, apparently The mysterious Doctor M had already set up to get into the vault, and in doing so had After the heist goes awry and a brief confrontation grabs Sly and starts squeezing the life out This is the frame for our story, Sly's life last few months of setup for this job. And with that, we go through those past few as Sly and the gang, with a slightly different Rather than taking something back bit by bit, bit by bit, in order to take that something, all the while running from Carmelita, of course. There is no enemy group like the Fiendish episode together, these are independent stories. For what it's worth, I like that concept, the weaving with Sly 2's story so to move me. Plus, it lets each episode breathe a bit, In order to recruit each new member of the or help them complete their own goals first. For example, in the very first episode, Sly to convince him to rejoin the gang. After Bentley was paralyzed at the end of gang to find his inner peace. His spiritual mentor, the Guru, ordered him polluted by the mob boss Don Octavio's tar Murray absolutely won't join the group until to help their old friend if they want him so Murray can report his success to the Guru, of miners. I have to reveal the rest of the gang for spoilers throughout the rest of the video. I'll warn you when the big spoiler stuff In addition to the Guru, the gang adds three expert and Bentley's new love interest; jobs; and the Panda King. You know, the guy who killed Sly's dad right Yeah, him. I wasn't really a big fan of this plot point are at each other's throat initially, but together without much issue. During this most recent playthrough, it actually King fight with his past demons, and fight We see that the old Panda King is, for the cares about is saving his daughter. While they still do patch up a bit too quickly underlying tension between the two that slowly goals. It's a bit sloppily done, but now I kind I also enjoy how smart the villains are in Well...some of them. Throughout the game's five main chapters, the franchise, as well as some of the weakest. Don Octavio is another sort of Dimitri - a character is entertaining enough that people General Tsao and Captain LeFwee each outsmart subverting the player's expectations. Something as simple as Tsao finding the bug a wrench in the entire heist structure that LeFwee outsmarts and outstrategizes the gang end-of-episode heist, proving to be one of And then there are the villains of episode Episode 2's big bad is just an evil mask. On one hand, it's hilarious fighting a mask, into the surreal for my taste. Episode 3's villain, the black baron is...well, She dressed up because as a child she was league. The Black Baron was let in without a problem, she created her own competition that she'd Naturally, despite cheating herself, as the entrant. But then as Penelope she helps the Cooper of their hotel at night by defending their team. It's...I like this chapter a lot, but this think about it. But hey, at least Penelope won't dress up Alright, time for the endgame spoilers. Skip to this point in the video if you want It's time to return to the present, where that all of these jobs didn't matter to Right now, having seen Bentley and Penelope Oh, hey, good timing. With Sly out cold with a bad concussion from rest of the gang comes together and stages cane before M can get into the vault. When Sly comes to, against Bentley's concerns, It was his cane and his family's vault after his eyes After getting into a dogfight with gets his cane back, and Doctor M reveals that gang, acting as the Bentley to Sly's dad. He claimed that Sly's father took all the his team's accomplishments, when none of He was attempting to take back the treasure Cooper family's. After Sly escapes with his cane, and with Cooper Vault and enters. They don't get far before Sly has to continue Shortly afterwards, Doctor M enters the vault a tracking device on the cane so that the Bentley and Murray hold M's goons off to in Bentley's head that HE should be the Sly. And then immediately Murray snaps Bentley This is a super interesting wrinkle, to have the same way that M did for Sly's father, There are little teases of Bentley being jealous Penelope has a small crush on everybody's brought together in a meaningful way. As soon as M mentions he was in the old Cooper reconsidering his friendship, and almost immediately Anyway, after an awesome platforming section section of the vault, Sly gets to the inner The two battle, and Sly wins out. As the whole vault is falling apart from the and Doctor M. It wouldn't be a Sly game boss, after all! M fires a final shot at Carmelita in an attempt bullet, and Carmelita takes down M. That concussion who he is due to M's shot. Carmelita lies and says he's her partner, M to be crushed in the vault he fought for Bentley and the gang search for any trace doesn't want to be found. He left his cane and his gear behind, holding With essentially infinite riches, the gang As a tease, Bentley later realizes that Sly and Bentley also reveals that he and Penelope eventual Sly 4 that Sucker Punch later admitted That's where the Sly trilogy would cap off If there's one word I could use to describe I enjoy the story they tell here, but the The team only had a year to make Honor Among here and elsewhere. After a game like Sly 2, the stakes feel far Without Clockwerk looming overhead, the story Sucker Punch went all over the place trying about how to make those wrinkles matter. I still love the villains for the most part, part, and they continue in that darker direction notice that I keep saying "for the most Sly 3 is a constant give and take, and it kept Sly 2 and even Sly 1 feeling so powerful It's still not bad, but it leaves a lot I'll give the story of Honor Among Thieves "Conflicted" is going to be a theme here. For the most part Sly 3 doubles down on Sly tweaks to optimize it for our three main characters, with Band of Thieves. You can actually see in the safehouse who No longer do the worlds feel more made for mobility options from the get-go. Bentley's wheelchair is tricked out with a triple jump, and Murray can curl up into in the game. Both characters can pickpocket now, too, and is instantly sold and added to your coin counter. You'll still spend those coins on Thief-Net every gadget is a repeat from the previous The main new ones are Murray's aboriginal rocket boost. Remember how I loved the stealth slide in The Rocket boost is that, but faster, while Instead of relying on gravity to do the work, although it costs a bit more energy to use Still, I love it. Sly also gains several outfits, which will guards, provided Sly can give those guards These passwords are stupid and fun, especially Italian accent. He definitely doesn't fit in with Octavio's Actually, Sly, what's your favorite mob SOPRANO While there aren't many new gadgets, Sly you can buy to spice up the game's combat. There are three powers, each with three levels absolutely useless. You can press triangle once to charge a level 3, before pressing x, square, or circle to I tested it out, and the level 2 push attack - keep in mind, most of these special attacks so they're only particularly useful on bosses. Also keep in mind there are only six real Sly. The level 3s are mostly redundant and take Considering they're each worth up to a thousand is only worth 150 coins, this is a crime. And if you're thinking "well, just collect talk. Honor Among Thieves removed treasure entirely. They also removed Clue Bottles entirely. Two of the things that made these open worlds with some mostly useless traps that are thrown There's no purpose to exploring anymore that you don't even need outside of one You might NOW be thinking "well just run you explore." That'd be great, except that the loot scales Pickpocketing starts out only earning you By the time I got to the final world in the worth of pickpocketing. After spending it all on upgrades, I still left in the shop. For reference, the total cost of the gadgets only around 24,000 coins. By the final level of the game I had barely Even after lowering the prices of the returning to the coins that Sly 3 gives out, the economy most of the game just catching up to where With the background stuff out of the way, up? For the most part, really well. The episodes aren't nearly as formulaic feel totally different from one another, arguably Honor Among Thieves drops quite a bit of the had, instead moving more fully into beat-em-up not super fond of. There are a few new stealth additions, like of the vaults that aren't in the game. In general, though, less and less often you and far more often the game focuses on setpieces, This is most noticeable with the inclusion is where Sly 3 sort of falls into some Sonic All in all, there are no fewer than fifteen none of them get even close to a respectable It gets really cramped when there are only need to split that among seven characters, Actually, Sly, who's your favorite character TENOR. Piling onto that, these characters don't of the team that they're chocked up to be. Panda King is a demolitions expert, but all fireworks. We've seen Bentley do some really impressive he just do some more? Plus, we don't even get Panda King's flame-fu, Dimitri is added to the team so late that and both times he has a slightly different The Guru is used mainly to mind control enemies so that it blows up. Guru, what are you doing? NOOOO. And Penelope is a supposed remote control worse than Bentley's. You mean to tell me this guy, who made his spring mechanism, and a jetpack, can't make I don't buy that. These characters were designed to forward That's why they're not even selectable there wasn't enough here to justify letting stroll. What ends up happening is that in order to thrown together with different characters. You might play as Murray for a bit, and then This allows for a tighter gang narratively, and the narrative isn't really good enough You always find yourself doing something new a bad thing when done in moderation. However, Sly 3 doesn't really have much It dives into so many pools without checking and ends up hitting its head on the shallow and forgets who it's supposed to be. I always find myself enjoying the variety I'm nearing the end of the game, I'm just And that's when they introduce the gimmick Yet again, Sly did it years before Assassin's The reason the economy is so backloaded in pirate level puts you in control of an entire and...well, that's it. You'll earn more coins in ten minutes of and that's going to sour you on all that you were behind on powers. At the very least, I enjoy this section for It's nothing special, but as a kid I loved If not for me grinding through the pirate Sly 3 would end up clocking in a bit shorter Sly 1. If you really want to extend your game time, Thief Challenges, which are mostly just time hit, and a treasure hunt for each overworld. They're not really worth your time, but than once. Oh, and there's multiplayer, I guess. It's not very good, you'll play it exactly I hate that I have to be as negative as I For every fix brought to the table, there's development cycle. Often, there are multiple, and most of them thin for its own good. If you're a fan of the Sonic Adventure style the quantity of gameplay styles often trumps style, odds are you'll actually love Sly I get that side, I really do. For me, as a reviewer, and as a big fan of from Sly 2, but in many ways even from Sly phantom memories of collecting Clue Bottles of a Sly game. Sly 3's certainly not a bad game mechanically, I'll give the gameplay a Bronze Bolt. I'm keeping this short. If you liked Sly 2's presentation, you'll The voice acting, with the occasional exception not surpassing the previous games. Carmelita, surprise, has a new voice actress, This new one brings more fire, and that's The dialogue the voice actors delivering is at hand, the gang has time for some wittier Some people pay good money for that, pal. The addition of these dialogue choice sequences by picking the wrong answers, and the responses I recommend you go out of your way to get There are a couple of audio mixing issues, It's never a big deal since the subtitles a thing that happens. I don't mind, though, because the music While I love 2's soundtrack, some of the 3 throws the music in your face, and does It knows its music is good, and it wants to Oddly enough, the game's weakest facet when Everything's been improved, the animations, Each level has a full introduction cutscene across the level to enter the safehouse, which Every episode takes place over multiple days Hell, in the original PS2 version of the game, red and blue goggles so that you could play Huh, blue bandit...blue bomber. Hey Sly, what's your favorite Mega Man game? BASS All of this comes at a price, and that price After all, you sure as shit ain't earning The framerate falls apart constantly, especially Your mileage may vary, but these framerates The pirate section in particular is horrendous, pretty rough. Not a gamebreaker by any means, but it especially this many issues. Let's make it a threefer, Honor Among Thieves Although on our side as players, eight long Cooper game, behind the scenes frankly things For a long time, the story as we understood Sanzaru Games while working with Sony to develop pitched a Sly 4 by producing an in-engine Sony approved the project, first trusting Sly trilogy on PS3 so that a fourth game would And also presumably because Sanzaru only had However, in the summer of 2021, a member of is a thing that exists, obtained what might and it wasn't meant for PS3, it was intended as it was known back in 2009. This pitch seems to have been first drafted year, and features a whole slew of darts being The presentation showcased a project called combination of the Sly gameplay fans had grown as a customizable hideout that other players from one another, potential co-op gameplay, you'd expect from an early 2011 Vita launch to try and sweeten the pot for the publisher. And frankly a lot of this sounds cool, Sanzaru's traditionally were performing better is a a neat peek behind the veil that we don't Later in the same document, it suggests the showing screenshots and even early but close hubworld, which at least to me implies that or that Sly 4 had already been approved in Sly Vita. You can see so much of Sly 4's DNA coming love of motion gimmicks. They felt super out of place when the game game, but when you consider that it was supposed that changes quite a bit. It's possible that even this early on Sony the PS3 and Vita, even though Cross-Buy didn't after the Vita had released and already died. Whatever the case, we have two different stories overlap. I find it totally believable that Sanzaru and was greenlit to produce the HD Collection, It's also totally possible that the ThiefNet Sanzaru's original Sly 4 desires, and that down. We know that Sly 4 underwent several major hurdles due to time or more likely budget carried through the game's entire lifespan, adjustments. Even after a delay from Fall 2012 to February market, it's clear the game released in Then thanks to middling sales because Sly late-era Sony management loved to cut losses for the DLC chapter that would finish the Funnily enough, going by the original budget today would indicate that it more than earned I'm sure that budget ballooned a bit though, just a handheld. As we'll get into in a second, I think Sly vehemently trash talk Sanzaru, the folks that series alive. It's so easy to get angry, call the developers years saying the game sucks whenever somebody discussed in many of my retrospectives, it's The game's still got more than its fair middle-tier games in the late PS3 era, it's poor timing, and a lack of general interest That's a bit of a downer to end this transition, game a lot more than most, it had a better Yeah I said it. 8 years after the events of Sly 3, we pick still feigning amnesia, Bentley and Penelope havoc as a champion demolition derby driver. Penelope has recently disappeared, however, that the writings in the Thievius Raccoonus Somebody had beaten him to the punch and developed far more sinister intentions. Bentley decides it's finally time to get van, Back to the Future style. The one thing the gang needed was an artifact in this case, a samurai sword from Feudal So, you know the drill, the gang steals the Well, not before Carmelita finds Sly and, to zap him into the NEXT century with her From there, the gang travels through five and even working with them to set history Each time period has its own big bad from that we'll talk about later. No matter who's running the show though, focus: Destroying the Cooper family history. The villains in Sly 4 are okay, I'd probably series. None of them ever pose a huge threat in my El Jefe feels like a weak combination of Rajan Knight and the Black Baron are both mysterious *coughs* excuse me, the Grizz is for most is just one of Rajan's elephants. Okay jokes aside, why are some elephants fully this universe? Every villain in 4 in some way represents I respect that, it weakens each of them when That's not a lasting issue, though, as the First off, a more minor addition - the guards They're caught talking in cutscenes, and Much more notably, you'll probably forget I guess oldest, members of the gang: Sly's In each episode, the gang rescues that era's playable characters with their own missions, Seeing some of these Coopers that we've as Rioichi or the wild west bandit Tennessee that blows the gang of Sly 3 out of the water. The main Cooper trio teaming up with one of later joining the gang as well, albeit hesitantly, that helps cut out any concerns of the gang Not to mention it's great to see them interact modern technology to them. On that note, it's time for the spoiler Skip to this point in the video if you'd By the game's fourth episode, with Carmelita really missing Penelope. Yeah, remember how I mentioned Penelope once So did Sly 4, oops. After working to learn more about the Black one of his facilities, where the Knight suit She had betrayed Bentley and joined Le Paradox had grown tired of Bentley's moral compass As arguably the two smartest people on earth, wasn't in her eyes "infected" by Sly's By removing Sly, and thus his influence, from rule the world. This is the most controversial part of the many a Sly fan. However, if you really think about it...her It skips over some very important context, double-cross her at some point, but after 3 and 4, and eight years of Bentley sticking had moved on, I can sort of see how Penelope That said, it's still an awful plot point After being mentioned no more than a tiny thrown back in your face early and often before nowhere AND rushed. Anyway, you're probably wondering who that This little skunk is teased throughout the It's only after he's retrieved all of five we saw, kidnapping Carmelita, and a trip It turns out that Le Paradox was also from ones, since you could smell them coming a Le Paradox's father had planned to frame in the world, but the old Cooper gang beat up. Le Paradox vowed revenge on the Cooper family, Sly, as recklessly as always, ran ahead to a trap. Hey, deja vu. Bentley this time didn't need his hacking back and brought all five Cooper ancestors After doing so and restoring the correct flow Le Paradox, because he's bad at everything, and opened a rip in spacetime, setting the escaped. And...oh god, this is awful. The final battle of this game is a quick time I know the Sly games have always struggled the worst. Le Paradox tricks Sly into saving him, steals leaving Sly to get warped out of the present Bentley, Murray, and Carmelita continued to they turned nothing up. Sly was just...gone. If you get the game's Platinum trophy, you'll is stuck in ancient Egypt, a tease for the gotten. I'll admit went into this review pretty MANY issues during my first playthrough five I think Thieves in Time's plot holds up It doesn't come close to Band of Thieves I really enjoyed this game's story. I'll touch on this more in a bit, but it is funny, with references all over the place general. Despite being stuck with the time travel gimmick the third game, Sanzaru mostly nailed a time-based The only real paradox is in the villain's As a result, the plot's stumblings are entirely the stuff I mentioned in the spoiler section. Plus, there's a whole subplot about Murray just a total retread of previous games. Despite knocking a rough gimmick out of the base. I still enjoyed what we got, and I appreciate more than the overall plot lets on, but I a Silver Bolt. I'm happy to say that despite those narrative an absolute return to form for the series. And I don't just mean they picked up where They picked up where Sly 2 left off Clue bottles mean something again. And they topped that too by modernizing the radar and a full map that you can open at This is something I didn't know I wanted reviews - even as great as Sly 2's world I couldn't help but feel sometimes that clue bottles or treasure. But they didn't stop at just fixing up Sly serve a functional gameplay purpose. Each one has a distinct gimmick that alters armor to firing arrows with a robin-hoodesque And these, wait for it, tie into those treasures. Each world has a dozen treasures to obtain, costumes. Some of them even require you to swap between a load of fun. All of this makes for some great backtracking and really helps the worlds feel more whole. But wait, I'm gonna blow your mind: You treasure anymore, thank you! That means you can grab the treasures mid-mission you. This was one of my bigger gripes with Sly ahead on that one. These treasures aren't worth nearly as much snugly into the third episode in Sly 2. That's okay though, because Sanzaru heard Sly 4 has a set value, and that value is actually Again, thank you! Like always, every world has three types of 100, 200, or 500 coins. So, they've addressed some of my biggest to the game's economy. So how does the economy hold up in 4 with Unsurprisingly, incredibly well. After every single job, you're guaranteed These abilities you can buy naturally scale reasonably priced. There is a bit of a trade-off: Like in Sly iterative upgrades to previous powers, and old are mysteriously absent here. The combat dodge and even a series staple me to fight far fewer enemies head-on when While I do love this from a logical standpoint combat - it does leave me missing the cut It feels a bit too uniform now that, instead powers, Sly is limited to his costumes, and limited to four cookie-cutter variants to Giving Murray explosive or electrically-charged for losing the ability to incinerate enemies There are at least a whole slew of more passive bombs around, Sly having a dive attack when a shockwave upgrade. Even the Clue Bottle rewards are passive here, of coins, a bottle radar, or even one that Sanzaru had a clear fondness for passive abilities, wanting. Now with that all said, how does the core It's a new team and a new system, did they Yeah, yeah they did, Sly 4 is a perfect continuation Sly, Bentley, and Murray feel almost identical since Sanzaru ported the trilogy over before Hell, Carmelita more or less feels identical remapped controls and arbitrarily having her They didn't have to relearn anything because So what about those ancestors? How do they feel? Well, in a pretty genius move, Sanzaru added - the ancestors play like Sly without his own. Rioichi has a much longer Ninja Spire jump, and Tennessee Kid just has a friggin' gun. In one of my favorite homages in gaming, Tennessee of Red Dead Redemption. Additionally, each ancestor has some unique are nothing more window dressing, but it goes The two ancestors whose abilities I have a first ancestor, the proto-raccoon "Bob." Galleth's ability is a much stronger wall above him. Only in Galleth's world does Sly get less feels like they intentionally weakened Sly Likewise, Bob can climb up ice walls, because like he could in 2. These two both utilize abilities that Sly get me wrong, it just feels a bit weird to to highlight another Cooper. It's a minor thing in the bigger picture, well despite this nitpick. That leaves only a few things left for me and these two actually go hand in hand here. Let's touch on the latter first - with the to ramp up beyond the smaller, contained worlds do just that. It can be a genuine challenge to find the pretty huge by Sly's standards. To help pack in the worlds a bit more, there the game. These can be spread throughout the overworlds for every five or ten you unlock, you'll a bit later. However, I can't help but feel the worlds It suffers from a much different problem than See, Thieves in Time looooves its interiors. The majority of missions take place inside, This is a welcome change of pace for me, because a platformer just as it veered back into being of all three of the previous Sly games, and So many areas actually bring me back to the highlighted the mechanics in unique ways, ways. Although in an odd omission, the barrel levels back and combined aspects of all three PS2 cuts. Either way, these interiors help the missions to a fault - I will say that I don't feel the game is so focused on individual missions lost. When it comes to those individual missions, Thieves in Time is that it solved Sly 3's In this game, missions are longer than they've you'll take control of multiple members Very rarely in Sly 4 did I feel that somebody - Carmelita is underused in Arabia, if I want The RC car and chopper also make somewhat more substantial role here. This lets Bentley sit back in the safe house, physical jobs, while keeping the turtle relevant. In Sly 4, there are three different types that we all know and love, a sidescrolling mazes that are exclusively controlled by the This came out in 2013. Ratchet &amp; Clank Future: Tools of Destruction but even back then there was the foresight This came out the same year as The Last of just strange. At the very least, they're not too intrusive, probably can't get too far in Sly 4. Anyway, to get back onto the topic of mission a bit TOO long every now and then, I rarely Sly 4 is just fun, and having dedicated mission goes a huge way towards making it so fun. But, again, it's a give and take, because At least Sly 3 used its overworld for missions that start you in the overworld, only to have for the rest of the job. This is where I get to talk about the worst Sly 4's loading screens, I'm not exaggerating existed on the PS3. It's a good thing you don't have to enter you'd be waiting, no joke, a full minute...one That's two minutes of loading every time loading every time you enter an interior, load a Bentley hacking mission. As far as I can tell, the game makes no attempt you're watching a cutscene and then have Yeah, another minute. It can absolutely kill the pace when you're has worse loading times than Sonic 06, you've While we're talking about Sonic 06 issues, matter, are even worse on the Vita version. I understand it running at 30fps on handheld, 30. Even on PS3, the framerate isn't close to just seem to be too big for the engine to the overworlds less was a very questionable If you can get past the lower resolution and option. I'd recommend the PS3 version over it any it on the go, including this AR mode that highlighting the collectibles you've missed Also, fair warning, the trophy lists are separate save file from one platform to the other and For all of its issues, I'd still actually near-perfect mixture of all three Sly games But perfectly combining three games that were to a perfect game, it leads to a bit of a For all of its leaps ahead, Sly 4 does, again, Bolt for its Gameplay too. I used to hate the way Sly 4 looked, something I'm not sure what I was thinking though, next-gen leap for the series. Obviously the framerate sometimes hurts that, with Carmelita looking...okay they kind of making me a little uncomfortable. Okay, you know what, I stand corrected. Somebody was paid to animate this. The locales in Sly 4, while they occasionally of the series, are all beautiful and more periods they're set in. Well, except for the dinosaurs in the ice close. Something else I find super neat is that with animations and the final boss fight itself, real time - if you have the Fists of Flame in cutscenes. This is also true for all of the Mask bonuses heroes has an alternate costume. Murray's got a wetsuit, Bentley's robocop, her fourth new voice actor plays Catwoman very similar to the caped crusader himself. There's something fitting about sitting under cover of night. Sly even has two cosmetic paraglider skins, Cole's Amp weapon from inFamous, Sucker shock damage and a stun effect to any enemies all coins into bolts and doubles the coin You get them a bit too late in the game to neat! Sanzaru packed in a bunch of these sorts of hidden as treasures, and Clockwerk is even the Cooper ancestors just as he said he'd Now, I mentioned a moment ago that Carmelita personally my favorite of the four she's It's not just her, though. Every character in Thieves in Time sounds how much the voice crew loved and missed the With all of Sly's jokes and everybody's how quickly Sly 4 picks up right where 3 left a beat and arguably, every performance here They even brought back Sly's terrible Italian That's dedication. Given, the characters might talk a little but I don't mind it. I wish their mouths moved in-game like they specific battle has a lot of talking and absolutely That aside, there are so many little quirks make Thieves in Time. For one, they brought back Peter McConnell, a great job sliding right back into the role. Sly 4's soundtrack catches right up to and Rather than just incorporating that signature different sections of the Sly theme to spice Perhaps the instrument choice gets a bit too themes especially are as strong as ever. Sanzaru really did go above and beyond with keychain in his binocucom, the treasures are pop culture in general, when you jump into time, rather than cut to black, in order to HUD icon has her hair flowing back and forth They even went as far as giving alternate it's something nobody would've missed that extra step. Now, obviously, I probably would've preferred game more, because again, ugh, that framerate. It's very hard to appreciate the game as in silence during a loading screen, or when It's almost unprecedented that I'd mention two different categories in a review, but are THAT bad that they hurt the game twice. Let's make it a threefer, Sly 4 will again for it's Presentation. Yeah, I couldn't just end there, there's Bentley's Hackpack released alongside Sly that Sanzaru put together while sitting on in Time was finished and ready for release. It's a harmless little addition, maybe one that Thieves in Time could still work with Of course, they were trying to convince a for two years of DLC support for its Smash after better-than-expected sales of that game Sly 4, frankly, was dead before it released the PS3's Twisted Metal game, PlayStation PlayStation upper brass's pathetic cut-bait The best we got out of it was a pretty solid expectations, and a rock concert if you spend Oh and a movie that was cancelled and turned in all likelihood doesn't exist to begin but weird subset of 25-30 year old diehard still the target demo. So where does that leave us with Sly now? At the risk of dating myself, for now, we'll a new game or the TV show, but it's hard them have a future unless they draw in a completely Sucker Punch first captured us in this excellent But at the same time then, that sort of game okay too. I'll still hold this series as one of the put Sly 2 up there against almost any title If Sly 4 had been able to release a year or even if nothing else changed I think we'd I think if more folks went back to it now a lot less negative too but that's just Regardless of wherever the future might take day in Sucker Punch's games, features like the code for Sly's tail animations are still to this day to simulate fabric waving in the It's thanks to Sucker Punch using the anthropomorphic working on Sly that the idea of a wandering mind in the first place. Now, do I think Sucker Punch will come back Frankly, I doubt it, long-time employees have hell it sounds like the studio liked Sly 4 about Sly is that its soul takes after Sucker their games. Sly and his friends, just like the studio, tightly-knit team and weathering whatever That's true for fans as well. There are teams making emulation-based New multi-year, multi-person projects, a level many PS2 contemporaries. There are countless fan scripts and pitches different Sly 4 - some folks really don't Sly's audience may not be massive, it might Clearly at least somebody in Sony's upper kept pushing forward trying to find a home with bargain bin discounts, with the movie, ads, everything. All that's needed to break through to whatever to get Sly in front of more eyeballs at the It's clear as day that if you give this a way to steal your heart. Thanks so much for joining me on this revisit down memory lane, and I'm surprised my old be. Hopefully you enjoyed watching it as much I'd also like to give a shout-out to the used throughout both the original Sly videos Back in 2018, they told me their guitarist reign to use some of their tracks. Small world! Speaking of fans of the channel, if you enjoyed to The Golden Bolt so that you can catch all Something like 75% of the folks that tuned another 10% subscribed I could probably ask And last but absolutely not least, I wanna You folks are the best. Once again, thanks for tuning in, and until