Hey guys! I'm leaving, actually you are seeing the beginning of the video but I'm already out look at the size of it look at the size of this structure I came to visit a company that, surely you know and like enough We come on Google and I'll show you what I came here to do. Cut to there Opening Music Video Course Answers Hello, little grasshopper! I'm here in Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo - capital You see here. Look at the view, that beautiful! on the terrace of a company that I do not know if you will get to know what is I think you know, because you saw in the video, is not it? I'll give a tip for you here It is a cool evendo you will see some images that I will raise during the event only there I will not be able to be catching a lot I can not be writing much I will record short flashes and I will provide for you here in this Video Course Responds Special but look here the vision of the city is good but you can look here: Google Content Lab Groups came together to study strategies to improve channels on YouTube They gave us several tips and choose a channel to evaluate and propose solutions to small problems Challenge &quot;Top Gun&quot; The challenge here was to create a paper airplane without looking at a set time of 50 seconds. And then play;) Final Test Groups We all had 4 minutes to present our solutions in a creative way And our group won! Thank you guys! That's right, it's over! the whole day We had to create a proposal to solve the problem of a channel, we chose a channel and solved his problem it was very cool! I wanted to thank here the invitation of Nathalia Everyone YouTube everyone who came to welcome us here in this place so cool it's already night. We arrived in the evening and tonight up it was very cool I wanted to thank. Whenever you want, you can count on us Look here: Our group was the Group 2 we won. Wait, I'll get there what we got I got a YouTube mug and now will be on the table, you should be seeing there including the day I'm recording But it was really cool if you have a channel and are invited Participate because it is very interesting! Thanks! Happy hour That's it, guys! shares with the guys there for they may know a little more of the Google Office in Sao Paulo That gives moral, forms part of the channel if you did not know, welcome! we have many tutorials! Search around and you will find a lot of good that's it, Little Grasshopper Sincerely, study! run after your goals! I am running! eeeeeeeeeeeeee! the next day... Hello, Little Grasshopper! I am full of sleep I am in Sao Paulo, I am in Rio de Janeiro and I'm getting ready now. They are 5 am I went to bed early, almost but it was a very cool event I participated. You will follow some things I did and my return to the river to get to the studio back stay with me! taxi Good Morning! Congonhas, please Congonhas Airport - SP Santos Dumont Airport - RJ Look Ziraldo! Great Santos Dumont! Guanabara's Bay It's not snot! I was scratching his nose! I forgot the camera on: / Praca XV - Centro - Rio de Janeiro What's up! Are you tired already? this time of the morning? How was your vacation? It was all good! I take a vacation every week! Well, we come! I'll just pass on Marketing This is hours? Now we're going into the studio in a secret place joke! We go there in the studio and you will know you will enter the studio with me! That's it, guys! that was my trip this was my way here scraped a lot, I ran like hell I managed to get here we will improve a little bit here turn the lights on floor, wall The sun looks My God! and now I'll turn this camera here so we can talk better! Thanks! Ahh boy, now it was much better, look, Oh oh. So this was the special video, I hope you have enjoyed. Again, I would like to thank everyone. Alex, the Nati. There's ... YouTube office. Who received us with great affection. Everyone Google Brazil, who came to talk to us. Everyone I met. A very cool guys. The gain people !!! Dude .... Look at that! (Lots of excitement) (Music) Look at YouTube cannikin we won. It was not everyone who won, not. We had an activity there. Right ... and ... we had to present something. And I am a teacher, right ... I had to give my little way there. The whole group had to work hard. It was really fun. Unfortunately I could not register because everyone was working. I can not ... Register with the camera. We won this mug and it will stay here, always in revesando scenario with the Hostnet mug. Look, I'm not talking well, (Strange voice), just ... do .. di ... We have this mug here, remember this mug here ... The coveted mug Hostnet. Everyone wants this mug. Now everyone will want that mug too. So is this little grasshopper! I hope you enjoyed. Forms part of the channel! Never forget, we have those contacts here O .. If you want to hire lecture. I even got a lecture on producing content for YouTube. I can present it to your event or your college. Anything ... I'm just talk here. Asks for your coordinator to contact. I'll go to him what I need for me to go in his college. And give a very nice lecture on producing content for YouTube. We stop there. Do not Forget! It gives that leathery, that gives shared on social networks. Speaks: (thin, strange voice) &quot;Look, my teacher, online, got there on Google Visit here!&quot; We tried to bring the best content for you. As well as possible. We have certain limitations when it comes to Google. You can not record everything. And you can not write everywhere. I visited some very nice places, which unfortunately I could not write. But here they are .. O ... In my memory and will stay forever. Big hug to all of the Google world, for everyone YouTube. you are sensational. And you know it's more sensational too? You! You, who always shares my videos. You always help me. You have always shown in their social networks. Or collaborates with subtitles. Never forget. Collaborate with the Legend! This video is coming to an end. Now you can close the tab, open the wing of subtitling. And start ... The help people ... The growing increasingly see the Video Course. You do not want us to create new courses? Help us subtitling. And certainly we'll create more content for you. This week still has class Word. If you have time, we do a Course Video Answers. With the messages you send here. A strong little grasshopper hug! A kiss on the cheek. Until then. (Music) (Book Noise opening) (Sound)