My dear elegant ladies, there are certain sensual body language especially if you want to have an affluent tougher to get one. However, but with these body language secrets, So let's find out what they are. Ladies, have you noticed that for some reason, there are a category of women who seem they're not physically anything special? We all come across those ladies and it's exactly that they do to attract those While let me tell you one thing, it's nothing more than And I'm not going to talk about confidence that is a very important fundamental to But in this video, I want to share with you that definitely will work on every man out there. But since my this video will be dedicated to them. So let's start with number one and I want natural hip swing when you walk. Those women who know how to walk Look at Samantha She's just going for a casual she has that natural It's not forced, she's not She's simply just strolling but being her attractive And that's exactly the type of walk, casually pass by a man. We want to have that natural hip action a man and if you have he notices your hips and I am going to show you an example of which is something That is more of a masculine walk, but the whole purpose is to walk with I don't really think that walking in look at me, here I am type of attitude. I don't necessarily think that that's You will definitely attract but I truly believe in which is usually the most It's definitely easier to walk in You might feel a little awkward when but you can actually have My advice is to put up a mirror in your just look at your hip action and make that's how you practice it. So just pretend you're this but reduce the aggression and just Let's talk about number two, the soft but natural and neutral If you are, for instance, sitting down in a restaurant and you There is of course, a way of having a more open type of becomes inviting to him and maybe If you are sitting as a stiff kind of too elegant woman, if I can say that, then the chances are that he's not going to you. Because you will sit there and too stiff, too boring maybe, too arrogant and that's not going to work. If you're on the other hand have and you're sitting and somehow you know... You know what I mean, ladies? Then you definitely not going to attract aggressive tone in your You are going to put him off and nobody You really have to soften if you are prone to those qualities and Another one that I would say is most You know the one who sits there like... You know ladies, when you when you are making yourself smaller, you are making yourself look It makes you look a bit insecure and even though a lot of us but it's not something we So it's really important not to signal yourself smaller, weak, limp we want to be strong ladies, but we want to be feminine and Another one that is really bad, let's say in a bar or and you are sitting and you are all almost like you're looking for And that just looks desperate They really don't like desperate women. So you really have to be clever in terms You cannot do it too much. So how should we sit? normal, soft, not too stiff, not too aggressive. Just sit like this, you know, just be let's talk about the smile and the smize. Do you remember the smize from Tyra Banks? I don't remember where she said this, but I think it was Project Model some really old TV series where she So at a photoshoot, she would say that if you're not make sure you smile with your eyes. And then you kind of do this thing of end up looking much more effective and But we do not want to overdramatize signals to men. There is nothing more putting off We want to look natural, But I definitely think first You have to have the smile. Men love a we cannot smile too much either. Because you almost look a little bit easy, look at me, you know, type of thing. We want to be a little bit hard So that's when the smize come handy man without actually giving him I'm talking about smile with your eyes all in on a regular smile. So if you are seeing somebody in the and you know, it's a bit too much, sometimes we wouldn't want to do that you can just, you know, do a little smize Do you see what I mean ladies? So unless the man is most men who are decent and normal man, they want a woman who is a kind woman. And when you are having the then you are just sending I definitely think that it can definitely suit for some people. But I talk general rules now and general which is why every dating advice always pinch of salt because it always have to and person. So kind of a little FYI there. Now let's talk about number four and I gently. Okay. There is something that we do not want you know when a girl is all the time playing with her hair somehow. We want to gently just drag a little bit that it comes natural. You do it at a Let's say you are talking to somebody you are gently just kind of attention a little bit to you, And why the hair? Well, as I was hips are very important for men. Men also get attracted by hair on a women, and I'm not talking hair I'm talking about the hair on her head. So a little touch or something that Something gentle, you always want to have the gentle movements situation where it's not like, okay, You want to do it as a kind of, you're talking about something that difficult and yes. That is kind of with the hair but just playing with it or doing it a bit the more awkward it's going to look like. So make sure you pick your battles If this is a man where it's not awkward the number five This would be a good strategy on a date or if you but you want him to be your lover or So physical touch, it is important and we bond with Now you don't want to be clingy and want to be like a sleazy woman. After all, a man should be taking initiatives here, but it's okay to quickly and gently, and very kind of subconsciously Okay, let me give you an example. You're talking to him and you Let's say this hand is his. You are putting your hands gently two seconds maximum and then you remove it. you can easily place two seconds maximum and gently remove. So it's kind of like those light touches. You really want not like that or you know, We want to be soft and Sensuality is really important here, All he has to know is You were talking about something, you really have to do it as you are Well, okay, in some situations if he's being very that gently, that can work. But usually, it's a safer bet to do it when you you just did it, you weren't really thinking about it but it wasn't like in his face, All has to happen naturally, remember. Now let's stay with the physical touch ladies. Okay, so we do We want to do something that is very Well, first of all, it's a signal that you have nothing to hide. It's almost like it signals a but not in the sense of, I'm so desperate, No. What I'm trying to explain here is you are simply just touching Nothing like you have a tick or something, more like it's something that you just nothing more than that. Some women I don't really think that's a good idea as a nervous tick, even though the action But yes, if you are telling him touch yourself a little You would be surprised how your own gentle very big impact on a man. He will pick up on small body language, things like that and he will start going definitely. But as long as you play it out then it won't look forced and if that makes sense. By the way, ladies, you know I have a free cheat sheet I have gathered over www.MillionairePlaces.com you can get this free cheat sheet today, so don't miss that. Number seven you might also try this one out, But I'm here to share you When you are in communication with a let's say somebody you maybe it's some stranger or something, start thinking very sensual But don't make any actions from it. Don't start putting on some vulgar show naughty thoughts. No, I'm saying, sit with that energy of sensuality and your mind in that very second. But would men pick up on energy And this is a real good strategy too, without having to express yourself in But just by sending out your and you're just kind of letting he will pick it up subconsciously. I've shared this tip to my students in told my friends, and I can tell you I've had quite do you know what happened? I did that what you said, and it worked. He came up to me and we exchanged I have used this in the past. Whenever I kind of plant a seed, I want that man and I make sure to without showing it obviously Number eight, place gently and elegantly your you heard me right. I'm not saying did he say that, really? Those quick little touches again on yourself, on body parts that you It's absolutely okay to show him the and gently and always with femininity. That's the secret sauce in the Number nine, and we need to think about I'm not a voice coach and I'm I have my own struggles, but if there's something I have it's how do I sound when I'm a little when I'm more happy, and So it is very important to be a You don't want to be a but you also do not want aggressive woman This is definitely not elegant. just try and find that balance You might have to experiment You might have to record yourself on camera But definitely do things like this your own a voice. Some of you have actually asked me if and maybe I should actually, If anybody has a speech coach, definitely get in touch because transformation. That's something But you can definitely simply by just doing this little tweak. And it's about adjusting your level. And it's also about kind of becoming what tone you put on your words. Number 10 ladies and I want to tell spoken about today, what's I'm going to repeat myself. And that's why I had to put number 10 Do everything with balance. Do not overdo it, Just tone it up if you need to tone it up, tone it down if you need We are all very different and we Some of you I know can can be a little bit too aggressive, nothing wrong with that and if some try and be a little bit more open minded that you are bad or you are wrong. We're just saying that it's very easy to is here to basically help you overcome just be a little bit more fine if you are somebody who really Somebody perhaps who have zero somebody who really needs to get And it's so beautiful to be a woman. And especially when you have all this become weak with a feminine woman. You don't even have to be beautiful if femininity, you will really rule men will become your slaves. And that's So make sure that we stick to our we are amazing women and Men are running after us because we know feminine energy in the end of I want you to check out the video, Because that video is definitely an And I want you to really absorb everything either attract the man you want in existing relationship. Now I