For years, Amazon warehouse Olayiwola have been conditions and the risk of while churning out millions they can reach Prime member Now their claims are being industry-wide data showing higher injury rates than leaked internal memos that match. You're being exploited hard worker and then once like, &quot;Oh, well, we got a you. You're out of here.&quot; used. In response, federal coordinating inspections warehouses in five states is failing to keep workers And at every single hazards that were putting bodily harm. The Department of Labor has against Amazon so far this all seven warehouses. I want to cry. Workers like Bobby Gosvener, months in a brace after a at his Amazon warehouse in It's two years of my life I Workers like Lanita Hammons, retirement without further They want me to get my rate rate up. And Jennifer Crane, who torn ligament in her wrist. I wear a brace to this day After like two hours of pain meds. Now, in a rare case of Justice Department is also Not because they think the profits numbers, but company might be making worker safety crisis. This is extremely unusual. This is the story of some those who are sticking what the government and the call. We've never seen the federal pointed, intense short period of time at once. Eric Frumin has been workplaces for nearly 50 multiple congressional about unsafe practices at As of last year, Amazon to warehouse workers than warehouses combined. He's the health and safety Organizing Center, a labor represents some 3 million Although Amazon approaches the SOC crunched Federal that while Amazon employed workers in 2022, it was reported US warehouse One third of the workers, serious injuries a year, warehouses. What price is community, as a nation, to day delivery? The coordinated federal last summer following the Labor Statistics data injury rate was 43% higher average. The Labor Safety and Health unsafe conditions and warehouses in Colorado, New York. OSHA acted on Attorney's Office for the York, which observed investigations of the warehouses were cited for state level by Washington's OSHA also cited Amazon for finding it failed to injuries and illnesses. Amazon is appealing all the What is most concerning is We have every reason to processes where we found are processes that are used the country. Doug Parker was sworn in as At some of these facilities inspections, the rate was every hundred. So that's workforce every year who the job that are serious take time away from their And this isn't a new trend. Since 2016, employers have injury reports to OSHA for 20 employees. Amazon has consistently of workers with injuries Perhaps not surprising for private employer with more workers. What is surprising has remained higher than and storage category since OSHA calculates injury injuries and illnesses hours worked, the working full time for a The number OSHA and the SOC injuries is the DART Away from work, job The most recent from 2021. The warehousing industry as a DART rate of 4.7 per 100 In the case of Amazon, that they report, so it's almost industry average. While OSHA's 2022 industry November, Amazon says its unchanged at 6.7 per 100 When it comes to injuries of its total warehouse injury 6.9 per 100 workers from That's still higher than closest competitor, total recordable injuries from 2017 to 2020 found between double and triple year. When it comes to Amazon's total recordable 36% higher than the latest 2021, although Amazon told compared only to warehouses people. But SOC says in the just released, more than reported average annual workers. We know that it's affecting it's very alarming. Bobby Gosvener is one of CNBC was introduced to him workers through a variety labor coalitions. Not one human Amazon anything about, &quot;Hey Bobby, What can we do to help Gosvener was getting off when a conveyor belt Totes were all over the It looked like a tornado scattered everywhere. He started rushing to get they wouldn't keep piling This went on for a good 4.5 My pain started in the my back because we were stacking up, stacking totes I met up with my manager think I'm hurt. I probably said, &quot;Well, I'll tell you it's going to take lots of paperwork, lots of think you can go take some and come back?&quot; And I was that.&quot; I couldn't move my I drove home with the left I moved around with my left I woke up that next morning about 3 or 4 in the can't do this. Gosvener was diagnosed with He had surgery five months awarded permanent partial worker comp suit. He can no longer work at physically strenuous job. I have to live with this life. I don't get royalty plate and four screws in my been prevented. I've had herniated discs in excruciating. It's actually someone who's never felt it Biomedical engineering researched occupational years. She explains the injuries that have Amazon Many of them are back and exactly what you would there's a lot of lifting There are hand and wrist those appear to be related gripping of the hands. It was a sharp, shooting, somebody had just cut into Jennifer Crane started at ends meet when she became a seven sons after her heart attack. She moved Saint Louis, and two of her Amazon warehouse a week And if you all are coming job. Here you go. Did I not know what we were the time. Crane's injury happened in She still works at Amazon I had to pack at the rate of matter how small, how big, And I was packing a case of all day, along with dog to pack it, felt a pain in It shot to my elbow, up to doctor. They put me on Took them three weeks to They showed a torn like two weeks to see an work related. Go back to So Amazon sent me back to unhealed and expected to In response to both Crane Amazon spokesperson &quot;Amazon worked diligently employees and ensure that not only to work safely, Any claim to the contrary medical professional on program called Amcare gave pain meds. But this is the big, huge, at Amazon. They work through the quick to downplay injuries tell you to sit down for to work. A worker-comp-assigned Crane's injury couldn't be But their orthopedic doctor arthritis in there. So it's that is the problem, not It didn't happen at work. It was pre-existent.&quot; I'm I didn't even know I had It had never bothered me Amazon says it has a robust Crane chose not to further comp. And it's not just Amazon's process for injuries. After its inspections last warehouses for failing to injuries. And now federal involved too, asking if fraudulent scheme designed injuries. The Department of looking into whether Amazon representations to lenders obtain credit, asking communications and other executives available for In a statement, Amazon told with the allegations and process will ultimately said it's expanding the recordkeeping. Beyond warehouses, Amazon progress across all 1.5 million employees, recordable injury rate went 2022. I don't dispute that their down some over a period of good enough. Regardless of whether an workplace hazards, any anonymous complaint with In response, OSHA is inspectors unannounced to on at the site. These workers were exposed hazards. They did not have to make sure that workers when packages were over 50 In one facility, I believe materials stacked more than workers were functioning. So there was a likelihood and injuring these workers. Amazon is appealing the upheld, it'll have to pay for worker musculoskeletal So far, they total nearly The Washington state DOJ $81,000. But Amazon is also companies to reach a There's no amount of money can impose as a penalty difference to a company of dollars a day. What matters is are they for their workers to be Amidst federal scrutiny and doubled down on its It's made similar promises This year, Amazon's million on safety In his last letter to Jeff Bezos said he wanted safest place to work. Soon after, Amazon set a recordable injury rates 50% By the end of 2021, Amazon WorkingWell safety and all US sites, which and physical, mental and employees, things like Many wellness programs focus change their personal So these might be arms and legs before you go nutritious diet. But they don't directly injuries in the workplace. Amazon has implemented other hazards, and in 2020, improved from the year data came out last year, jumped back up. An Amazon pandemic rush as a reason higher across the whole and not just Amazon. In a statement given to operations significantly to deliver essential goods to This meant we onboarded employees. If this was about a bump in 2021, then presumably resolve these issues Pushing for time, the Injuries are going to 60-year-old Lanita Hammons hired in 2021. She took a leave of absence her left shoulder for an A couple of months after processing associate or possibly fire her if she up. When that pain hits me so up. And since the surgery, any better. I'm trying to retirement, which is next If any employee is productivity, Amazon says opportunities to help. In a statement, Amazon also work to do.&quot; It says it safety and health it committed to work with on reducing musculoskeletal MSDs, like tendonitis, back tunnel, are the leading beyond Amazon, impacting globally. Amazon said some the risks include job called Huddles, regular workstations about taking advancements that reduce reach. These advancements redesigned ladders and sort closer to workers, and Back in Missouri, Crane would have helped prevent If tables had probably been had less strain on my Robotics are one big alleviate worker strain in Mechanical arms help lift repetitive tasks such as containers. Driving units workers, reducing the need Overhead scanners with replacing hand-held freeing up both hands for Amazon also says it's forklifts with collision uses LIDAR to prevent For Gosvener, he wishes he'd the mezzanine level where malfunction led to his did take more than 56 on the conveyor belt Proper training at every belt moves product and make using good body mechanics steady pace and not a high In the last year, Amazon has mechanics and exertion, or wristbands to make sure like bending and lifting Even as Amazon commits to also spending significant back against OSHA's for all citations. Unfortunately, in almost the as the company is it, they don't have to fix So some workers are taking and form unions like the ago in a Staten Island Crane is circulating a asking for a lower pace of changes and equipment But she says Amazon's high the way of gathering People can't take it no more And as long as they have new to, they don't know that stand up for what's right. Turnover rates at Amazon are industry average according third of new hires staying leaked internal documents Although Amazon says those They literally are just another job because they constant rat race. The safety is very much your work. You have to make Otherwise, you're going to Then you're not going to be switch positions or move up Daniel Olayiwola, who has introduced an unsuccessful shareholder meeting. It tracking workers' rate of Amazon now calls &quot;idle And I was asking for them to that it is a big injuries we get at Amazon's I can hands down say that, you're going to make to get hurt. An Amazon spokesperson work isn't referenced in the southern district of six warehouses called out issue. And three states, Washington, have passed curtail the use of Amazon warehouses. Olayiwola primarily works what's called very narrow warehouse in San Antonio, I could be picking up bed like really heavy items, shaped things that could be too, which is a dangerous rate we have is like 22 an pick an item every three Olayiwola's wife is pregnant He also wants to help inside. He now hosts a Scamazon.&quot; Why not walk away? Because I have to do it for I got to be able to support I have bills to pay. I know, why don't I look Yes, I could do that too. But right now I'm in the better there for everybody. OSHA says ergonomic underway at ten more Amazon investigations pending at And we're certainly going to result of these inspections hazards that we've put addressed. And I would not encourage I hate to this day even to because it's so look at a box, I think of through it and who got