- And it's super easy to That's... (box rattles) (upbeat music) - If you cook regularly at home, you're almost certainly gonna - At least you probably should be. - [Lisa] Vegetables are from breakfast to lunch to dinner. But vegetable prep could get - Fortunately, we have a to make vegetable prep easier. Lisa and I are gonna show and some gear we think you should avoid so you can prep veggies But first, we have a book coming out. It's called &quot;Kitchen Gear: - The two of us have 30 testing Kitchen Gear, and we've packed all of our into this book. - We give you our unbiased take on what's worth buying and what's not. Plus you'll find over that bring out the best in your gear. - Get your copy of &quot;Kitchen Gear: The Ultimate Owner's Manual&quot; today. First up, Hannah. (upbeat music continues) - Mandolins make veggie prep easier because they make super and they do so very quickly. They all function basically the same way. You slide the food down across the blade while you hold onto the The blade you can raise and lower it, and that makes a thicker, a thinner slice. Some of them also come that you can load in to make I mean, who doesn't love waffle fries? So we have tested a whole At their best, they truly and they make things go which is a boon for your veggie prep. At their worst, they or extremely frustrating and will just end up in your We came away from our testing Our top overall is a chefy You will see this in restaurants. It's capable of making some of the most whisper thin beautiful We also love the Oxo right here. This I will call the easiest to use. It doesn't quite get as thin but it's a lot easier to use. It's got this foot. It's super stable. We also love the Kyocera paddle model. I actually have one of these at home and I reach for it a lot. You can just store it right in a drawer. It doesn't do as much, but it's also a heck of a It's our best compact option. So the first thing we was their range of thicknesses. You know we really wanted a mandolin that could do gossamer thin all the way up to thick This range in thicknesses and will also help your food be better. If you have super consistent your dish is gonna cook nice and evenly versus if you have a thin or a thick one, that's Our top models here ranged in thicknesses from half a millimeter so thin you could all the way up to 9.5 millimeters on the large end of things. Those that ended up towards just didn't do as much. We really wanted to see a broad range, and that's why these two landed So sharp blades were You can't really take these So we wanted models that We tested a wide range of things from super delicate tomato skins to really rugged celeriacs. Another major thing here was blade shape. V-shape is a common shape for mandolins as is straight blades, We much preferred straight blades. They had more even, Another thing that was That's the thing I'm You need some room to work. You know, you wanna be able to slide a full eggplant along here, carrots. You wanna be able to do a range These are bigger to store. That is a downside which is why the Kyocera paddle model is fantastic for smaller tasks. But if you want something that can do a wider range in a big platform about four And lastly, rubber feet So these things didn't move which is definitely a Here are a couple tips we learned along the way in our mandolin testing to help use these things First of all, go slow. Most injuries happen when You got that momentum, you get all excited, and then Second of all, some of and you can use those to If you don't have a good hand guard or if you just wanna add an cut resistant gloves can be And then also make sure on a flat surface and clear out the food so you don't get a backup. Also, cut the food in half so you are slicing on a flat surface. And finally, washing. Do not put a mandolin in the dishwasher. It will definitely make it dull faster and like I said before, you can't really sharpen these things. Alright, so that is our mandolin roundup. We absolutely love these tools. They can really help Just be careful. Next up in our veggie These hit the market like five years ago and made a big splash. I think everyone had one at the time. We still love them for a couple reasons. No shade to the low carb crowd, but I'm not using one of I still love pasta. I think what you get out is different shapes and so you can make more Zucchini noodles with a beautiful topping is absolutely a gorgeous and a good way to use up So most spiralizers work You wanna square off your veggie so the machine can get a good grip on it. And these spikes here, hold one side. This little round circle over That keeps the veggie firmly in place. And then you turn this crank and progressively push this closer as the blades cut up the vegetable. Nice, beautiful noodles or whatever slice you're This is our new winner from Oxo. Our previous winner was from Paderno, but we ran into some We just retested, and we really fell in But the Paderno is still So let's get into it and talk about what We knew we wanted a spiralizer that could handle all of fruits and vegetables. We also wanted one that easy to use, stable on the countertop, and easy to clean. A good spiralizer should also generate long, unbroken noodles. We also want one that doesn't So we spiralized zucchini, and butternut squash, measuring everything before and afterwards to look at how much waste each None of these models but our winner did have a few things that made it rise to the top of the pack. First of all, it was the most stable. Stability is really important here because you're exerting a lot of force onto this little machine. You don't want things to slip around. You wanna feel nice and And the Oxo here and the Another thing we really was this suction pad that really helps anchor You operate it with this I'm gonna release the suction right now. Break the suction, pulling up the tab, and you can lift it off easily. But to put it back on the counter, you simply crank that down. Now it's really, really locked in there, and that extra stability makes And none of these were but the Oxo was easier than most. All right, so spiralizers are but they can accomplish cuts that you can't do with your chef's knife. A spiralizer can be a fun way to open up a new dimension of veggies. Another one of my favorite veggie tools is the humble grater. Now a good food processor can make quick work of a pile of zucchini or shredded cheese. We always keep graters and when you don't wanna Now we tested two styles And we have a winner in each. This is our box winner from Cuisinart, and our paddle style winner from Rosle. Now there are pros and cons of each style, and that's why we ended We'll get into that a bit later. But first, let's talk about what makes a good grater in general. First off, tooth style Now there were two different The first off was stamped where the holes are stamped out of a more rigid piece of metal. The second style is etched where the holes are eroded out of a thinner piece The teeth on etched graters sit lower, whereas the teeth on And both worked well. But we generally preferred stamped graters because that wider space allowed them not to get Stamped graters were also better with soft and malleable foods. They grated them more and more completely. Because the metal used was thinner and more flexible, we found they buckled more easily, and we didn't like that. The teeth had to be sharp. It's not like you can so they had to arrive We also found that the dimensions of the grating surface really mattered. The bigger a surface you have, the faster you can get through food because you have more before you restart another swipe. Testers were divided when it came to the style Some prefer the paddle style because they can be used hooked over a bowl on Also, people like to be versus more vertical, like The paddle graters were to clean and store. So definitely a couple pros over here. The box graters on the because they had four sides, and also they helped 'cause everything you're grating goes down into this chamber right here. Regardless of style, we See, this one has two and this one has a nice That allows them to sit more We also liked big handles, which were more comfortable If it had a rubbery grip on and felt a little more especially when your So which style is your favorite? I'm Team Paddle. Let us know what yours is in the comments. Either way, a grater is a great way to speed up your veggie prep. Next up, we have a family of specialized vegetable cutting I think the alligator that falls into this category. Basically, these tools and make it super easy. You might remember this sometime in 2008 at three in the morning, you saw this wild looking fellow trying to promise you that your life will be that much easier with one of these things. We put these to the test for real because, you know, we But we found ourselves de-tangling cut up pieces of carrots and onions from this sketchy sharp blade. It also cut things so We were sobbing from the onions. We recommend instead sticking with the most simple a chef's knife and a cutting board. Next up, Lisa, with some of her favorite (upbeat music) - First thing I'm gonna talk about today is vegetable peelers. Back in the day, you had My mom and all older Italian in their hands with a We have better things now. Enter vegetable peelers. The original kind is this straight kind, and you can see why it that, you know, it was developed from. The newest version is called a Y-peeler, for obvious reasons, the blade goes across rather than directly out from the handle. We tested both kinds, and these were our winners. I tested something like 17 peelers. It was a lot of vegetables Our favorite straight It's the Good Grip Swivel Peeler. Our overall winner is a Y-style peeler, and this is the Original This has been our longtime favorite for years and years in the test kitchen. We supply all the equipment that the test cooks can and a bunch of them were in their chef coat pockets, and I said, &quot;Why are you bringing your I put it in a testing that I did against a bunch of other peelers, and it's won repeatedly over the years. Both of these have sharp This one is made of carbon steel, and this one is stainless steel. Carbon steel, you have to keep to prevent any kind of rust; stainless steel, you don't But both of these and they stayed really These have very maneuverable and both of them were not and could handle the tough stuff. All peelers are basically swivel peelers. This means the blade will rock so that as you're following you don't have to turn your arm. The blade kind of rocks The two blades have a The first half rides along and it sets the angle for the second half. And that made a huge difference Some of them made really thick peels and sure, they got the surface off, but they also wasted So you hit this Goldilocks A lot of people say, &quot;Why are And don't knock 'em till you've tried 'em. When you're peeling, you can It gives you more control. This style is one of of a straight peeler, but a lot of them have You can't see where the blade is and what it's actually doing. Finally, they were really easy to clean. They didn't trap food anywhere. They rinsed off. We don't believe you from your kitchen into the dishwasher. The dishwasher environment You wanna be able to so that peeling is not such a chore. And another really cool that you might not have realized is that they have this thing This loop on this one and this little scoop that's what they're for. So while you're peeling, and just snick it out and get Another thing that we really is that they have very neutral grips. They're very ergonomically friendly to right and left-handed people and to however you wanna hold them. You don't feel like you're punished if you have to peel a pile of carrots. Now, let's talk about the salad spinner. So I personally tested You want one that has This one holds a lot of greens. It's got a nice big open basket. It's got this little stem in it, but that's the only thing that Some of them had weird tube that you were really crushing the produce when you were putting it into wash. And that's not good. You wanna handle everything This works like a child's toy. As you push down, it spins the basket. It's actually easy to do, and it's kind of fun. And then for storage, you It stays flat and has a little I took a weighed amount of greens and a measured amount of water, and I put them in together and spun them dry and then weighed them again. The only one that got off those greens was this one from Oxo. Some of the other ones felt pretty short, and there's a few reasons for that. One is that it gets going The other is the basket on a little point in there and you can get I think off of these greens before as the basket goes through. Don't just put the produce in here and rinse it under the sink Use the exterior bowl to or the produce that you're washing. Sploosh it around a it's a technical term, and then rinse it out, dump that, then put it back in, then spin it. And if there's a lot of dump that and spin it again. You don't want them to be damp because that will encourage This one is very easy to clean because the top actually for easy cleaning and for full drying which is really important. The rest of this washes and it is dishwasher safe. So if you go to the farmer's market or you have farm share and you wanna wash your a salad spinner is the way to go. So here's another way for veggie prep. The garlic press. Now I know a lot of people &quot;You don't need a garlic press. You can just chop it Yes, you can, if you When we call for minced we almost always say, because you want uniform, small pieces. So we tested a bunch of these. This is our winner. It's by Kuhn Rikon. It's the epicurean garlic press. It's all stainless steel. This one has been our long time favorite for a couple of reasons. These have nice long handles, and it's got just a beautiful mechanism. It really works very smoothly. So you can really squeeze even if you're comparative It's very hard to see, but the holes are actually funnel shaped. So they're a little bit and then they narrow out. It actually makes it easier and to still get the same size pieces. It will just kind of zip and a little more smoothly. It's got this nice big plate to press. So this is called the hopper You put the garlic in and you close it, and the plunger pushes it Most of the garlic goes out the front. It's not coming out the sides in the back and every place else and not getting crushed. Maybe all that part was but then you're done and there's and it's pain to clean and you're detailing it with a toothpick. I know, 'cause the one I used This one, that hopper comes right out. So you just flick that stuff and it comes clean, which is amazing. It's so easy. And finally, just being a This is a very solid tool. It's not gonna break on you. So number one tip I found with this, don't peel the cloves, don't bother. Save yourself a step. Put 'em in here with the peel on. It presses out just fine. And when you're done, and you lift out that hopper, it just flicks away. It takes all the residue with it. Second, if you ever find just cut the little and that just breaks and makes it much easier to press. Or you can just cut it in half and put the two halves in squeeze it, beautiful. The and this is just a minor tip, Use the back of the knife, as you're swooping down Finally, you know, don't and let that garlic harden on there and turn into garlic cement. If you can't wash it right away, soak it in the sink right away. This one is much easier but you know as well as I do, if it dries in those holes, it gets harder and harder to clean. So just throw it in the sink right away, and it'll clean up in a second afterward. So we have a few quick that are very easy to do. So if you have just one use the side of your knife. Just put the clove on the cutting board, put the side of the blade on, (fist thumps) and whack it. That will pop the peel If you have to do it a break the head of the garlic open and then put all of Close it up and shake it hard like For about 15 seconds, all If you're gonna be prepping garlic, the easiest way to do it, as I said, get yourself a good garlic press, and it will be no big deal from now on. Now for something completely different, something you should totally avoid. These are the toss and This is designed to make it super easy by just throwing everything in a bowl and preparing it there. No knife or cutting board needed. Didn't work out that way. It took so much more effort than a knife and a cutting board, and the results just I had been in there. It was terrible. These have a few problems, that they don't open wide enough to really grab a lot of food, and they're fairly short. You could chop a carrot because but when you did, it just sent it flying. It couldn't get around a round tomato. It just had to kind of bite at it, and then you had to flip it By the time you're done, you've got all these that are just a mess. It was exhausting. Skip 'em. So with all the tips that Hannah and I have showed you today, hopefully veggie prep will For more information on all check out the links below or - And what are your tips and tricks for making veggie prep fly by? One of our favorites is What are you listening to in the kitchen? Let us know in the comments. Make sure to like this video and hit that subscribe button (upbeat percussion music)