Interests investing in businesses that grow. I was betting onElon Musk and most people bet against him. Everyone knows Buffett is a role model but he's not as closely as I am. Ron Baron caught the investing bug as a teenager after hesuccessfully invested 1000 dollars of his bar mitzvah money in a bank. He had research in his neighborhood and got acquired atseventeen dollars a share to make a thousand dollars became seventeen hundred. I said Man there's nothing to this. How can Ido that. Ron started on Wall Street in 1970 and spent the next decade as a securities analyst eventually starting hisinvestment firm in 1982 with one hundred thousand dollars. Baron Capital was really barren. Lack of capital. Now Ron manages over55 billion dollars in assets with nearly all of it invested in public equities. I want to own stocks shares the businesses thatcan outpace inflation. That's that's my simple look. And Ron's simple strategy has been to buy and hold his own shares ofCharles Schwab since 1992. Choice Hotels since 1996 and Vail Resorts since 1997. It's not the time. It's the fundamentals ofthe business. And I can own a stock for a number of years and not make a return on it. And that wouldn't bother me. But Ronhas produced returns. His super long term strategy has made his clients fifty two billion dollars in profits. I get stopped inthe street almost every day and people come over to me and say thank you.If somebody invests in the stock market the publicly traded stock market which over the last hundred years probably has goneup by six percentage share a year. So if somebody invests in one of your funds which are publicly traded stocks that presumablygonna do better than 6 or 7 percent I guess if they didn't they wouldn't invest with us. What do you think about index funds.Some people say just buy an index fund reflects the market. Presumably people are buying your stock. You have your fundsbecause you're gonna do better than the indexes. Yes. And how do you you try to outperform an index by 200 basis points 300 basispoints or something like that. We've outperformed indexes by about 500 basis points since inception. And so we're in the lowteens mid teens. Bear in Partners Fund for example is the number two or number three mutual fund out of since 1992. Of the 22 or23 hundred funds that we compare against Barron's Wealth Fund is in the top two percent of funds since 1996 where we have veryrare that mutual funds outperform their index. The index is is the is the passive and so very rare that that happens. Andthat's because everyone thinks that they know better and they can predict when the market's going to go up or down becausethey know when interest rates are going to do and they know whether we're going to go to war or they know who thepresident's going to be. They know with monetary policy they know stuff. And because they know things and they're so brightthey believe that they can do better than the market. And they and they don't because they buy and sell and they don't have anyinformation any different than everyone else's except that different way interpreting it. But it's very rare that are goingto be able to take advantage of that information sufficiently to be able to better the market. Hardly anyone outperforms 17 or 18funds outperform in 98 when they're half 98 and 1/2 percent outperform our indexes in a very high percentage or in the top 5or 10 percent of funds. Right. So we met when my own firm car law was going public and they said well you need to go see RonBaron because he buys publicly traded shares when they get public. So I met with you and I was surprised that you had a penand you were taking detailed notes. And I said is the head of the company. Does you have somebody else doing this. But youwere taking notes and I assume you wrote him up and then you assessed it and you gave us very detailed questions. You do thatwith all the people who are going public that you think are might be interesting. Yeah everyone who I think is interestingand that's what I do except they don't use the pen and pencil and where now I use a computer. So when you do this what are youlooking for when you're you are known for having a long term hold position you buy stocks. You told me this when we weregetting ready go public if you bought our stock which you did. You hold on for a long time which you have. Why. What is yourtheory about holding on for a long time. Why not just sell and take a profit. Well first of all you promised me I was going tomake money. That was a promise. OK. So you said you could buy stock. Wall Street is not understanding the value in thisbusiness. And the stock was 22 with the time when you went public and now it's forty nine and forty nine 16 or something.And if you compound that including the dividends we would have made sixteen point one percent investing with you from the timeyou went public. And so why didn't we buy and sell. Because if you buy and sell you pay taxes every time you do that. Numberone. Number two what makes me think I'm so smart them and be able to figure out the exact top and these at bottom buy heresell there. And so that didn't make sense. And plus I didn't have any confidence that anyone was going to be able to predictwith the stock market was going to do. I got that confidence from watching Greenspan say about irrational exuberance in 1996saying that the market was too high and the market went up 80 percent the next three years. So for any FCC commissioner who'swatching I didn't promise the stock would go up. I said I was hopeful that it would go up or whatever. I legally was able tosay just for the record. OK. It was you were definitely within the framework of what's legal. So let's suppose you see somebodycome into your office. They're going to go public. They want to beat you because you're known to be a long term investor and youkind of say geez maybe these people aren't as good as I thought. How do you what do you look for when you're looking at a CEO wascoming in to pitch you on his IPO for her IPO. So about the person we're looking for an individual who we trust we thinkwould be a good leader is a good leader a smart hardworking not going to take advantage of us and the businesses in which we'reinvesting. We think our competitive advantage there's something about those businesses that makes it very difficult for someoneelse to compete against them. That's hard. It's competitive advantage. Great people. And there's big growth opportunities.That's what makes us invest. Generally when you buy a stock you intend to hold onto it. But if you're not happy you hold on fora year or two years. Three years. What does the average time it takes for you to say I made a mistake and I want to get out.It's not the time. It's the fundamentals of the business. And I can own a stock for a number of years and not make a return onit. And that wouldn't bother me as far as making me think I made a mistake. We were investor and test for four or five or sixyears and didn't make a return. And then all of a sudden we made seven times in a year. So it's not the time it does it. It's thefundamentals. We made four billion dollars in profit. And so far and I thinkwe're going to make another triple maybe four times over the next 10 years.This is a market that over the past few weeks has made it clear it wants to go higher. It got a little spooked by the idea thatgeopolitical tensions are rising. Who will be the world's first trillion air money manager RonBaron thinks it could be Elon Musk and Baron is putting his money where his mouth is. More importantly he's putting hisclients money too in his Baron Partners Fund. Baron has 38 percent invested in Musk electric car maker Tesla and investorssaw an almost one hundred and fifty percent return on their money last year. The Baron Focused Growth Fund returned onehundred twenty two percent in 2020. It has almost a third of its assets invested in Tesla. Still that only begins to tell thestory of just how good up that Tesla has been for Baron. Between 2014 and 2016 Baron bought three hundred eighty seven milliondollars worth of Testa stock at a split adjusted price of forty three dollars a share. The stock's closing price as of September7th almost seven hundred and fifty three dollars. If anything though Baron is even more bullish on Musk. Privately held rocketcompany Space X. He's put several hundred million dollars into Space X so far. Baron is counting on the company eventuallytaking off like a rocket. Predicting a return on investment of up to 50 times in the next 10 years. As for must becoming atrillion error the Bloomberg Billionaires Index has him at slightly more than two hundred billion dollars. But Barron'sforecasts have been pretty good so far. Ron you are a big believer in Tesla and a big believer in SpaceX before everybody else went along with that route that they were great companies. What did you see in Tesla early on andwhat do you see in Space X now in test the early on. I thought the opportunity was to convert the cars that we make in theUnited States in the world from gasoline to electric and that hadn't been accomplished ever before. I was betting on Elon Muskand so far and most people bet against them. We invested three or eighty million dollars in between 2014 and 2016 afterthinking that we shouldn't invest in it and was one and a half percent of our assets at the time and we made four billiondollars in profit. And so far and I think we're gonna make another triple maybe four times over the next 10 years. Whatabout space access to space X. The same as Tesla. It's the same idea. What you're disrupting an industry that is a cost plusindustry. So all of the aerospace companies don't do research and they didn't want to innovate. And the reason it is becausethey had a business that was producing rockets and they felt if they could use a rocket over and over again why would they makeyou know there wouldn't be a demand for a few rockets. And so as a result of that there was no innovation in what they will do isthey would subcontract out the work that they did on these rockets so they would become more and more and more expensive.And the government would just pay it. So along comes along and he says I got a cheap way to get to space. And cheap way is byusing the rockets over and over and over again. And everyone else said that was impossible to accomplish. And as a result ofthat no one did it. And our men did. And this is a real big cash flowing business. He's picks up 40000 satellites. Who's cheapsatellites. Everyone else with send up satellites will be very very expensive. We can use the rocket over and over again. Thenit's inexpensive to get your launch. It's inexpensive. And that gives you a chance to put up a lot of satellites and serve needfor humanity. All right. Well let's ask you about this. We have one person. There's a CEO of both companies. Yes. Does it makeyou nervous that one person is driving both companies as normally you would invest in somebody who is running twocompanies at the same time would you. We have one person running two companies one person who is working you know ungodly hourstotally dedicated doesn't need very much Nebo speaking to a director of Space X two nights ago. And so St. How's Ilan doing.He says he's doing unbelievably lives in this small cottage two bedrooms on this desert property. And I said is there airconditioning. Yes there's air conditioning. But he's from you know from South Africa. So he doesn't need as much. But but heis in the air conditioning and and he works all but five hours a day. And he works continuously. Totally dead. He's like you. Soyou spend your time on airplanes. He spends his time in factories and producing things. Do you have a Tesla. Yes. Threefor him. And when you drive them and you say maybe something can bebetter do you call up your line and say can you fix this. Actually we do. And when we bought the first one my wife wascomplaining about the makeup mirror and she said there's no makeup mirror here. I said how can I make a mirror. So I callhim up and I say we are just been to visit their engineering plant where the guy who comes up with a design for the cars. AndI said well my wife is complaining about this car that there is no makeup mirror. He said yeah we've had to do especially whenthey put in that that actual mirror. So that was my wife's idea. And I'll call it the Baron makeup. No. Right now many peoplethink the stock market's pretty high fairly valued very fully valued many people would say. So are you nervous about that. Idon't worry about it. And in 2000 19 December ninety nine through 2008 were really difficult. Eight or nine years for thestock market. The stock market was down 30 or 40 percent 3 or 4 percent a year for eight or nine years.We didn't make a lot of money in that time but we didn't lose. We were up 25 percent over that eight or nine year period timewhich was really terrible for the market. And then since then of course we've done very well. And what I think is that some bigpicture of the world. The only thing I am certain of I'm sure about our economy. Sure about our country.But I think that the value of my money will fall in half every 17 or 18 years. That means that everything I want to buy isgoing to double in price every 17 or 18 years. So I regard stocks as a hedge against that depreciation of my currency. So Iwant to own stocks shares the businesses that can outpace inflation. That's that's my simple look. And I think that no onecan predict what the market's going to do. No one can predict when it's too high or too low. And I'm just taking the what'scoming at us. And when we get opportunities when the market falls for example periodically like right now there's been thisrotation out of the kind of companies that we've invested in that have done so great for the past couple of years intosomething that is cheaper. Like for example we had investment in Dick's Sporting Goods that this guy had Stack. We invested withhim for maybe eight or 10 years. And then about maybe our cost was ten dollars a share. And about three or four years ago wesold our stock at around 40 or 50 dollars a share. And because I was convinced that I didn't want to invest so much in retailanymore. And even though I thought he was a terrific retailer I wanted to invest in something different. And so we soldyesterday they reported earnings for a quarter of five dollars a share for the quarter. And compared to two and a half dollarsthat people had expected. And it stopped when a fifth year 17 points to one hundred seventeen dollars a share. And I saw the50 and any parent paying a five dollar special dividend. And so. SoI don't switch to be fashionable today. But that's what's outperforming. Sothis year we're up in the low to mid teens on average for our firm our clients. A couple of our mutual funds are up in the20s. A couple of them are up in single digits. So we're up.But if I had switched around if I had been so deft and agile they could sell everything that I had that I thought was youknow expensive at the time and buy something that looked incredibly cheap because they were depressed by the economy soquickly and then switched out and switch back. I went I mean where moneywould pay the taxes but it would've been where money. But I don't do that. So let me ask you. Some people say that becauseof inflation or other things worry about the currency. You worry about the currency going down in value every 50 percent every 17years or so something like this. What do you think about crypto currencies preserved as a commodity. And so I don't invest incommodities. I don't want to I don't own gold. I don't own a crypto currency an investor in crypto currency. And I alwaysworry if you have crypto currencies and they get to be real valuable. Now why is the government can allow some privateenterprises to have control of their currency in their economy back in 1932 or 33. Franklin Roosevelt people were afraid ofleaving their money in the banks. They took the money at the banks. They gold. Then he made it illegal to own gold. You hadit turning all your gold. Why do I think that same thing couldn't happen. I'm not saying it will. But you know I wouldthink there's some risk as well. I tell you young people who work with me what they should bethinking about is if everything and the well-being of their families was dependent upon them being right on the business inwhich we're investing on their recommendation what would they need to know to be able to make their recommendation to us. When you have that much money 55 billion dollars undermanagement you've got a lot of responsibility. Every night. You worry that your stock market is going to go down and your assetswill go down and people won't call you up and people call you to complain or they basically say I'm happy.They say they're happy. And they say they're so happy that I get stopped on the street all the time. My pictures in a quarterlyletter I get stopped in the street almost every day and people come over to me and say thank you. On this night we were at adinner at a restaurant. And as we were walking out man walked over to me and said thank you very much. You paid for mydaughter to go to college. After all the years that you've been doing this what have you learned about what investors most wantand how to deal with investors. I think that most people want to have their money grow consistently every day and and make higherreturns without volatility and low fees. That's what they want. That's not where they can get by the way. So you're very famoushaving a conference in your annual shareholder meeting I guess in New York. And you have a lot of famous people that peoplecall my annual bar mitzvah annual bar mitzvah. And you've had very famous people on all of your life to say who they were. Butthey're great entertainers. McCartney Barbra Streisand Billy Joel Elton John Jerry Seinfeld. But we have a lot of energy andI pay for that. That's not true. The investors that they have in these twenty five thousand dollars invested then come to thatmeeting. So is it easier to negotiate with the CEO or Paul McCartney or Barbra Streisand. Man you can't believe what it'slike to negotiate with some of these performers. The crazy thing I shouldn't say crazy. They're very reasonable things that theyask for. So if somebody wants to invest with you I'm not advertising for you. But if somebody wants to invest how much dothey have to invest to be in one of your funds. The normal is 2000 dollars but you can invest for as little as five hundreddollars and fifty dollars a month. No no fees to buy herself. But if you sell within three months of the time you purchase youcan sell the next day. But if you sell within three months then we regard you as a traitor to your ADR and you're not going tobe allowed to buy with us anymore. It sounds like a T or a ISE right. Yeah I think of it that way. CAC. All right. OK. Sogenerally when people who are very successful as you are in the financial service world when they want to build an institutionthey often get people from outside your family to come in and help them.You have two sons who are in your business and like a lot of family owned businesses. The sons are going to continue on orthe daughters will continue one. So is that what you'd like your sons to continue the business. I sure hope so.And I've been brainwashing them since they're four years old. OK. And so you contend to do this for as long as you can do itright. You're not slowing down. You're not gonna go play golf full time as long as I'm healthy. You get a charge out ofinvesting. What is it that you like about investing. I love what I do when I get to meet and talk with people who runbusinesses who are changing the world and explain to me how they're doing it. It is so much fun. I have my wife says howcould you spend so much time. All of my friends. She says all my friends. Her husbands don't work anymore. Howcome you work. But it takes a lot of building to get to this point. You just don't say OK I we do that. My job is different.I'm trying to build an institution that's going to last for a hundred years. So if you had role models as great investors overthe years. Well everyone ISE Buffett is a role model but he's not as growth as I am. But I like reading his letters. And hewrites these letters. You write your letters as well. Yeah. In fact one of my friends ISE Chuck Matheson and he was a chairmanof International Game. There's a slot machine manufacturer. He is best friends who was with Warren Buffett.And they play bridge together on the Internet. And then one time he wrote something nice about Chuck and one of my letters. AndChuck said. Buffett just called him to congratulate him on my mention of him in my letter. So Buffett was actually reading myletters for young students who say I want to be the next Ron Baron if not Warren Buffett. What do you recommend they do toprepare to be a good investor. I think the first one I think they should study the businesses in which they're investing orin which they want to invest in why they're going to invest in him and understand the economy. These changes change is what'shappening everywhere. You know the growth in the world has taken place in the last 200 years. And the growth is now accelerating.So you have to understand what's happening in the world around you what's happening in our country. You know not that you'regoing to make decisions on a short term basis but I tell you young people who work with me what they should be thinking aboutis if everything and the well-being of their families was dependent upon them being right on the business in which we'reinvesting on their recommendation what would they need to know to be able to make their recommendation to us. Everything youhave is dependent on you being right. That doesn't mean you have the right or the. But if everything you knew you have to youwill be your family what do you have to know. That's the questions that you need to ask. I'm not about the next quarter.So what is the most common investment mistake you think people make.Well they think they can open up an account had a brokerage firm.Then they can buy and sell stocks and do as well as anyone else. They can trade. And I think that's a fallacy. I think that youknow just like I wouldn't want to fly an airplane or be a dentist or even cut my hair off with what I have left of itthat I think that people havean understanding that they can buy and sell stocks just because they can pick up a phone and do it and they can't. OK. And ifyou were to advise somebody today about the opportunities to invest generally it would say public equities are good places toinvest for long term but just invest the same every year. So don't think about it as this is an investment. I'm gonna makeyou should think about how food security my family and my self I should invest. Is there something you would tell somebody not toinvest in or something and say please don't invest in area A or area B or commodity or commodity B or something you would thinkis a big mistake to invest in. It sounds like crypto is one of them. Well I'm not investing in your crypto but that doesn'tmean it's not a good idea. I mean there's really smart people who have big investments in crypto. I study it and periodicallyI choose not to use a commodity. And so I'm not interested. Invest in commodities. I'm interested in investing inbusinesses. The growth businesses grow great people competitively advantaged and for the long term. And most peoplethink that because you can get a check in the mail and they can take that money and open up an account and buy and sell stocks.And it's like gambling. I don't regard investing as gambling. I regard it as trying to take care of you and your family for thelong term. And you do it by investing similar amounts for a long time and living to be old and you get to be rich.