I took a regular old Roomba, squeezed and RC gear inside, and then hit the road for the world's fastest Roomba. This isn't my first Roomba rodeo, But just how fast can a Roomba go? There are a handful of videos But I soon found that this isn't a Roomba. And this is definitely not a Roomba. And then I came across this one, and this is the real deal. I also found a story that covers It's got bigger motors I estimate that it's good I'm considering this the benchmark to beat. And I have a concept in mind to achieve it. And to get there, It has to look like a Roomba. Use two drive wheels. With one motor per wheel. And it has to suck. It will be challenging to fit everything And there form isn't optimal We need to find a Roomba that's up to the task. I started This doesn't take too I was left with a pile of bits expect, So I cleaned them up before moving on I needed to make some serious space to fit the new drive This was a lengthy and smelly process in the chassis. I went with brushed 775 motors. That's spin up to about 20,000 rpm. These will transfer power modular planetary gearbox. To start with which is the longest available. There's quite a size difference And of course there's one for each wheel in order to fit everything in the right A 3D printed a dummy wheel, which is quite a bit larger than the stock The wheel design has a positive offset and stay within the bounds of the chassis. I printed some plates in PETG that will attach the gearbox and checked with everything fitting nicely. I printed a pair of new wheels in PETG. I used TPU filament to print some tires and fitted them with epoxy. I'm using one motor controller per side and they can handle about 60 I picked up most of these parts at Andy Anticipating possible I made up some DIY adhesive heating to the motors. I soldered it all together metal hydride battery I was pretty restricted with what I could actually fit in there. I could now power it up to program to suit the motors I printed a few little accent pieces and I didn't know what to expect, on the workshop floor to start with. I'm glad I didn't have any electronics mounted in that dust collector. I added some wheelie protection and a Bluetooth GPS speed. The tires provided next to no grip and that caught surface was very grippy. So I found some urethane rubber to cast using a new wheel design I added a few drops of dye and then poured the urethane. I left them to sit overnight they came out of the molds easily. Not bad for my first go, but there was still some room for improvement. Next up, I needed to get those wheelies under control and to improve the handling. I added some different and you may have noticed So using the existing power rails, and front Seed studios, kindly sent me so I wired it up to some LEDs Someone must have known I was coming. One broken gearbox mount and two broken wheels. The urethane tires are extremely strong though. Here you can see the impact and a wheel, and then the lateral force Time for some new tires and stronger I didn't get the molding And four cell LiPos that will deliver more power To make room for them, I quickly realized I still wasn't happy so I made a little closed mold well. And I pilfered some bearings from an old drone motor And then I had some electronic problems with some intermittent pulsing I suspected that I was running but looking at the software, I eventually attributed the problem to the onboard five volt I think. So I decided to power the receiver with a step down voltage converter And now there is literally The extra power had again worsened It was a real handful to control, but it was faster The second run was faster again, but that was the fastest being forced to retire again. We've got damage. We've got pretty similar damage to last time I think this could be a good candidate for some machined Or maybe I'll detune it a little That could be fun. I'm really pleased But it may not be the end just yet. Let me know in the comments