- Ever since the invention humanity has almost many times over. This is a video about (rocket whooshing) It's about nuclear bombs and missiles accidentally detonating. It's about hydrogen bombs being lost. And it's about false to the end of the world. (bomb rumbling) On the 17th of January, 1966, a B-52 bomber was flying It was carrying four hydrogen bombs, each one 75 times more powerful than the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. This sounds crazy, but in the mid 1960s, during the height of the Cold War, this was routine. This was part of a military where bombers flew and skirted the borders with hydrogen bombs on board. The thinking was that if the the US could rapidly retaliate by having bombers already up in the air and closer to their targets. The flight took off from North Carolina and crossed the Atlantic Ocean with the plan to fly by the and return home. The plane would be in the The flight was so long, it But long flights and mid-air Flights like this happened every day. The first refuelling went smoothly. After flying by the Soviet the plane needed to be refuelled again. So at 10:30 a.m., over the coast of Spain, above the small fishing the refuelling tanker pulled Larry Messinger, the pilot - [Larry] We came up behind the tanker and we were going a little bit too fast. There's a procedure they if you get in a dangerous position, he calls, &quot;Break away, and you immediately cut the Well, there was no such call. We were dropping down below the tanker and all of a sudden something happened. There was an explosion of some kind. - The two planes collided. The boom arm, which held hit the B-52, breaking off its left wing. The resulting explosion was big enough that it was witnessed by another B-52 which was flying a All four men on the refuelling tanker and three of the seven on the B-52 were killed in the accident. The four bombs fell to earth. Each one of them had a yield about 75 times more powerful than the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. A hydrogen bomb gets most of its power from the fusion of tritium and deuterium, which are isotopes of When these isotopes fuse into helium, a little bit of mass is lost, But it takes a tremendous amount of energy to get that reaction started, which is why a hydrogen bomb A conventional bomb which when detonated triggers which then creates high enough and releases enough energetic X-rays to trigger the fusion reaction. The conventional explosives detonated on impact. Fortunately, to trigger the explosion needs to be symmetrical. But since the conventional explosives detonated on impact with the ground, the shockwave wasn't symmetrical and so the fission and Unfortunately, the conventional explosive blew up the plutonium core, contaminating a 2.6-square-kilometer area of the Spanish coastline with radioactive material. The area is still contaminated to this day. - [Reporter] But after the to eat no locally produced food and there was an embargo - The third bomb was found But the fourth bomb was missing. - [Reporter] Somewhere out there off the sunny coast of southern Spain and H bomb is missing. It's been missing now - Mr. Ambassador, how was Did you by any chance while you were out there today? - Wish I had. - 29 US Army ships were and it still took 81 days for the bomb to finally I wanna say this again. There was a hydrogen bomb that than the one dropped on Hiroshima, and it was missing for This is not an isolated incident. It's common enough that for accidents involving nuclear weapons. - [Reporter] The D-Day with a potential Broken Arrow message from Nellis Air Force Base. - They call them Broken Arrows. The Pentagon officially between 1950 and 1980. Five of them occurred during cases when a B-52 carrying In 1961, the first year a B-52 had a fuel leak and it Three members of the crew It was carrying two 4-megaton bombs. Both bombs fell to earth. One had its parachute deploy and it landed on the ground mostly intact. The other slammed into a The good news is that the did not explode, so radioactive plutonium was not strewn all over North Carolina. The bad news is that the conventional and so there was a chance that the hydrogen bombs could with full force. Recalling the incident 52 years later, Lieutenant Jack ReVelle, who was responsible for the - [Jack] And as we started digging down, trying to find the second bomb, one of my sergeants says, &quot;Hey, Lieutenant, I found And I said, &quot;Great.&quot; He says, &quot;No, not great. It's on arm.&quot; - At the time, a spokesman said that the bombs were unarmed and could not have accidentally exploded. But in a report declassified in 2013, it was stated that the bomb was armed. A single switch could have By the way, the bomb is still there, lodged about 50 metres under the field. After the bomb fell on the field, there was a flash flood, which meant that it couldn't be recovered. So to make sure that no the US military placed a 120-meter over the whole area. According to the Pentagon report, there is no detectable radiation but a portion of one weapon There are dozens more events like this, like the plane crash The four hydrogen bombs it was carrying burned up in the fire. The decontamination of took four months. That same year, the Soviet K-129 submarine sank in the Pacific Ocean, killing all 98 of its crew. It was also carrying Part of the submarine was Another standout incident about 100 kilometres A Douglas A-4 jet carrying fell off the aircraft carrier The plane, the bomb, and the So, for more than half a century, there has been a 1-megaton hydrogen bomb laying on the sea floor four kilometres below It is one of at least that have been lost and never recovered. In 1998, Alexander Lebed, Russia's former Chief asserted that there are more than 100 1-kiloton nuclear bombs that are unaccounted for. The most well-known Broken Arrow event happened in September 1980. Inside a silo in rural Arkansas, a team was conducting routine checks on the Titan II intercontinental The missile was fueled, ready to launch at a moment's notice. In its nose cone sat a As one of the repairmen was the socket from his (ominous music) It fell 24 metres, hitting the fuel tank of the The highly flammable rocket fuel began to leak into the silo. The missile complex and but a number of military to try to diffuse the situation. - The maintenance team had an indication of an engine fire and a rise in vapour - At 3:00 a.m., about 8 1/2 hours after the the leaking fuel vapours ignited, This explosion led to one The 740-ton door keeping the silo sealed flew more than 60 metres into the air. It was recovered 200 metres away. The warhead containing the hydrogen bomb was also blown out of the silo, landing some 30 metres away. Luckily, it did not detonate. And these are just the near Of the 32 Broken Arrow events one which occurred in the spring And there are likely many and near misses the from every nation that The worry of a nuclear mishap is not just the immediate damage done by a hydrogen bomb explosion. It's also the misunderstanding and retaliatory strikes that could arise. Imagine that in 1966, instead of hydrogen bombs the plane crash occurred closer to the border with the Soviet Union. Humanity has been on the brink and so far we've been lucky. The closest we've likely during the Cuban Missile Crisis. The US Navy began dropping to bring a Soviet Tensions were high and the submarine had not been in radio The captain of the submarine and he was about to But the launch required the Two out of the three but Vasili Arkhipov did not. A full-blown nuclear exchange between the United States was avoided by the rational The historian Arthur that &quot;this was not only of the Cold War. It was the most dangerous And during the Cuban Missile Crisis, with the tensions between the US and USSR at an all-time high, both countries still conducted The US set off a 410-kiloton bomb 50 kilometres above the Pacific Ocean and a smaller 7-kiloton bomb at an altitude of 147 kilometres. Two of the 300 kiloton tests occurred in space. It's pretty hard to justify these actions. What if one of these a nuclear first strike Because false alarms happen for something a lot more innocuous than nuclear tests in space. On the 26th of September, 1983, the Soviet satellite-based detected the launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile, and their policy dictated that if any inbound there was to be an against the United States. This would've likely led to all-out war. But the Soviet officer on duty at the time of the was sceptical of the reading. He reasoned that if there the US would launch hundreds not just one. The detection system then warned Petrov of another four missiles but these two, he dismissed as a glitch. Petrov was right. He made the right decision and his clear thinking likely The warning system malfunctioned, it confused sunlight reflecting for ballistic missiles. After this incident, Petrov took an early retirement and later suffered a nervous breakdown. Another close call happened when scientists launched a Their rocket was there to but Russian radar picked up this launch as it had a similar as the submarine-launched Trident ICBM. The incident was serious enough that a briefcase containing was taken to the Russian I think most people believe the biggest threat is their deliberate use. There is this idea that as and don't use them, they could act as a But all of these incidents demonstrate that the real risk of nuclear weapons is some freak accident. So far, humanity has been lucky, but how long until our luck runs out? But there is hope. In 1986, there were more In 2022, that number and more are being dismantled. But as long as there are any the future of humanity is not safe. (electronic beeping) Hey, this part of the by Henson Shaving. Close shaves are bad when but they're great when Henson is a company that was who wanted to use their experience in precision manufacturing to create a better shaving experience. And honestly, I think they've succeeded. I've been using their AL13 and it's the best shave I've ever had. The razor is made using CNC machines with incredibly tight tolerances, so the blade sticks out This means that the blade which reduces chatter, the up and down movement of the blade. This reduction in chatter In fact, Henson conducted a test where participants shaved with a multi-blade razor and the right part with the AL13, and they saw a statistically in skin irritation when The AL13 is really high quality and it uses standard double-edged blades which are much less expensive than the proprietary blades So, once you own a Henson razor, the cost of shaving works out depending on how often you shave. And because you're not it's also much better for the environment. So, if you'd like to have while saving money and head on over to HensonShaving.com and enter code Veritasium with the purchase of a razor. I wanna thank Henson for and I want to thank you for watching.