Well, that's what happened according to an African years later is where you come in, 50 kilos and you weren't, so your lungs put to the test 30 seconds from them. Currently you and your mom ensuring she will actually care about you. She's nighttime grass feast to spend all day pumping being licked nuzzled and scraped, mom decides to to share the rivers and lakes with Nile Crocodiles tolerant of you, but you don't have to be tolerant tail. This is the start of a long, ongoing, for one of you, probably them, may not end well. strong enough bond to be worth defending, and it's around 30 other hippos there and you and mom take She's very protective of you but still needs to on to land to munch and some tasty grass. You're possibly go wrong. If given the chance a male for breeding again, so you're in a bit of trouble. style but forgets one key thing. Always check your with mom. She can eat without worry and you can with sterile intestines so before you're actually some bacteria to help, and the best place to well on your way to fully unlocking the ability 8 months that you put it to full use no longer adult Hippo. It's the night time so you're on massive canines play no actual parting eating only it's time to head back to the river. You enter of territory marking and can now, using your spend the next 16 hours almost completely the other females, and any other kids she decides don't form any actual social bonds with anyone bull spreading is ego. He's claimed this stretch all the females there. Other bulls are allowed to unless they can best him in combat and take the marking territories but it also happens on land purpose. This seems like a good time to go to the under, and open wide. This gives the local fish thorough deep clean. The copious amounts of dung vital nutrients to the fish, therefore benefiting deep clean you decide to get some rays before it Sweat, which luckily is just horrendously named priority so you secrete this unique fluid which UV radiation protecting you from sunburn. It heal the wounds you typically get fighting other thinking they can take you cause you're a bit bit risky, honk over the adults and let nature [Splash] a few threats here and there, but it's when you kick off. You are now an adult hippo. One gigantic press you no longer need mom for any protection, Uh you're now male and want to make an important minding their own business. This isn't the to warm up for it. Currently it's the dry season leading to the most aggression between hippos. The the old dominant bull over there. Of course you youth you decide to be heroic. Well that didn't That's okay you're made of thick skin, literally mention that all that mass actually consists of all that muscle you drag yourself up river looking or your skin will start to crack. You trot away till you pick up the fresh scent of another pod. outsiders so the way you get around this is... also just bent the knee and gone to hang out with graze you take your place among the other females an appearance. It's a good time to mate so your the traditional mating ritual then 8 months down form a strong bond with your new calf. This is not a good combination. Your territorial chase down the perceived threat. Surprisingly, you can't actually swim and instead just sink due to get around in water you actually have to run you realize this is a lost cause and make your one of the most dangerous animals in the world. [Heartbeat] you not to let your kids out of sight. After a natural reflex allows you to bob up for breath [Stampede sound] Wildebeest will do it though. It's been a rough have a bit of fun. The wildebeest accept that a to a certain pesky predator, unless you season comes around again you're struck with With your increased size and experience you now you're now male again. Quick warm up then you nearly 180deg you charge each other locking teeth hasn't gone your way. You're not dead but you everyone can be the dominant bill. Time to head I know you're mad but you don't have to the bigger one. Imagine what your life would be [Music]