- I've made some poor but I would rank this one in my top 10. Oh my God, it's frozen. This is the story of the - It is - Very wet and cold out here. - You see, I hate November. It's my least favorite month of the year because the days are only getting shorter. It's cold and windy and rainy, And all I wanna do is curl up under a blanket for a whole month. I don't think I'm gonna get very far. So of course, I decided and go on a three day hike and coldest place I could think of. Nearby the northern coast, running along the frigid Baltic Sea. My goal to see if there's any to enjoy what I would consider to be the weather equivalent of torture. Well, we're here for, okay. You know, I really wanna but I feel like I'm not quite ready because I still have There's quite a bit, all And the taxi that's supposed to come and pick me up is coming So I better get packed Vilk's food. Three kg of raw meat goes I'm not sure how I feel about There's nothing but the bare Just the tent, our sleeping spare socks, toothbrush. Oh, and of course, since I'm filming, there's about 10 pounds of drone, and spare batteries. So I don't stop the hike from here. In fact, I have to drive about two hours with this taxi to the starting line. To be honest with you, part to prove to myself that I could, but another part just and simply walk for a few days. Holy shit. Oh, no laptop, no desk, no meetings. Just that sweet, excruciating feeling of putting one foot in front - Best impressions. The pack is kind of heavy, So looking for the beach at this point. So like that, it cold, but it's not breathing, which is good. And it's damp, a little and I am so excited. - My plan over the next few days was to cover about 40 miles along the coast, pretty much in a straight line. So the reason why I wanted to start my hike in because this town is where with my grandpa before he passed away. I guess I'm just using a This is our photo. You can see it. This is our photo from And I guess he really because he was a traveler himself and he wrote about his travels. He took photos on his travels. And I think when he passed, a part of me wanted to keep him alive. And I think the reason and why I do this for a living So grandpa, this one's for you. For the next three days, my Physically speaking, this hike Aside from the heavy pack, you just walk straight along the coast. But this adventure is I'm thinking a monotonous landscape, walking on sand and the God awful. November weather. Cold, wet, damp, windy. For the first couple of But in the afternoon, the weather turned - Finally it's happening. It's getting dark. It's We got it all. Hey buddy. Yeah. Okay. There is a forest - Path that runs parallel the beach. - And then, oh, why? You don't wanna be in the rain. So civilized all of a sudden. Well, at these, the trees respite from the rain. Oh no. - I think this is it - Think - This means we have - Oh, look at that. It is. Yeah. A little bit stormy out, I would say. So we're just taking shelter and this, I don't know what this is. Some kind of gazebo, the you know, is hating it, buddy. Are you hating it? He literally led me here to this gazebo. He was like, we're staying here. So he's gonna give it like half an hour. Hopefully the wind will stop. - Oh, - It stopped raining and great. I'm very, very, very tempted It looks so nice and I could take a hot But no, I have a campsite not too far from here. - Looks So I'm gonna try and Ah, because that's why I'm here, right? Not here to stay in the night supposed hotel, do that any day. - I cannot even begin to explain how much willpower it that hotel on a cold and - Found our contact for tonight, closed. 'cause we're like way outta season. But I called the owner and And she was like, I don't really know what it looks like right now. And yeah, it looks a little I'm a bit windy. It's like no shelter. I don't love the look of this. - The campsite looked abandoned. It was flooded, very windy, and frankly looked kind of dodgy. But I was there out of season. There was really nowhere else and started setting up camp. The rain had let up for the time being, but I was super cold. My shoes were wet, and to be at this very lonely I was just grateful I wasn't Oh my God. It feels like it's 10:00 PM but it's only five o'clock. Five o'clock. - How? How is this real? My shoes are just completely drenched. Oh, my socks are wet too. My trousers out wet. Everything is so wet. I am - So cold. I'm gonna make myself A double hot chocolate. only happens when you go camping. You never make yourself a double for no good reason. Do you? Oh. Oh yeah. Holy moly. Thank you very much. Oh Oh my God, this is everything. Ugh. This is the best hot chocolate Hands down. Gonna save this hot water here, I'm gonna send my mom so she knows exactly where I am. And honestly, even though I'm kind of ready to go to bed. - Oh, good Good morning, buddy. Hey buddy. Well, I slept for - 12 straight hours from 7:30 PM to 7:30 AM Wow. I feel pretty well WestEd. Mm. You could use some more I can see that you are You are still a little lazy boy. I God. Right now I just need some hot coffee. Just like any good camper would. I slept with my wet clothes And yeah, I think they're actually, they're actually kind of dry. It is actually quite a My shoes are completely soaked. That means my socks will be soaked in about 10 seconds from now. Yep. Wet. You can see maybe they'll You know, there's one thing and that is the fact that the tent is dry. Oh my God, I was so worried that I'd have to like pack it away wet. So the fact that it's all the good vibes that I need for today. - Oh, so much sand. - Okay, before I set off for today, I just wanna say thank you to And yes, this brand is and they make bottles, to say bottle three times in a row. These are the bottle bottle bottles. I've been using these and they've kept me pretty four continents. These are the two models I've And let's start with this one. This is the 24 ounce magic lovely kind of nature inspired design. I really like the fact grip on the handle. You can attach it to a but also this actually slots So it's really convenient. And there's this cute little flip straw, which you can use to drink. Or of course if you'd you can also just drink This guy will keep your And when I pulled hot it was still warmish this morning. And this is the 32 ounce which is absolutely hilarious because if you have been here that I have a deathly fear of cows because I did have a cow related Anyway, so every time I I just burst out laughing. So one of my favorite features that it's got this little And you can use this to And I sometimes let milk absolutely no other option And whichever way your mouth is inclined, you can either drink from or from this bigger flippity flippity flip jewelry design is what I'm trying to explain here. I'm very excited to share for bottle bottle, so of these over the next few months. All right, I think it's Let's do it. Oh my god, the back is a heavy, heavy boy. So there's the beach over there, but there is like an which makes me think that probably parts of the beach will be blocked off. I'll go take a look, but I might have to walk on the road for a little while. Yesterday I covered about 10 miles, so of course I had more 15 miles or more. I was so grateful to veal of food since last night, with a slightly lighter And after getting so much sleep, our spirits were pretty high. - Yes. Okay. I thought it would be that would stop me from But it's actually the tide. So here it still looks fine, but check it out just over there. - The tides come in and it's really high. The water's super high road. Yeah, man. A strange thing long distance hike. It's like the constant stepping of your feet shatters your brain fog, your constant motion allows you to overtake any intrusive thoughts. Don't get me wrong. When you're probably not coming up with any revolutionary philosophy either. But you do give your brain a distractions. Your mind becomes clear and light and free ambush. I got ambushed. Is that a happy boy? Okay. It's been about two hours and I'm kind of keen to Let's see if the tide has Vjo, of course, is already - Yes. I think we're good to go. Oh my God, look at it so wild. - The further I walked, the I loved the solitude. - Okay. And think it's time - I'm gonna grab a snack, have some water. Just sit down for a little bit. Oh wow. That's nice. So nice to sit down. You can take a break Oh, oh, oh, okay. - Yeah. - Oh my God, it's frozen. No, - He is like the wolf and the little red riding hood in one. - Oh my God. - Okay. We have another which makes it impossible I really wanna get to that staircase, but I don't think that's gonna be possible - Back to the road, it was, you know, you can't change the weather. - The only thing that you So I'm really trying very - Come on. This is amazing. - Okay, here's our spot for tonight. Under a tree near the beach. In a forest. It looks quite nice, actually. Can't see much, but I think it's kind of nice. Okay, let's set up camp. - I, no, wait to get inside the tent. I don't blame him. I'm excited too. I found died for a second death, so I just took the time to set up camp. I fed milk and I'm just gonna get in my pj, make some tea, and then A ostentatiously early - Seven 30 again today. - Yeah, - Living the dream You guys. - Good morning. Oh my God. I slept for 12 hours again, You did too. You slept Thank you, thank you, thank you. Oh god. It's almost 9:00 AM I My camera is broken. So I noticed that it was but I thought that if I and if it just dried out a Unfortunately it's not. So what happened was the record button is like It's the most important and it doesn't work. Why this one? So yeah, I'm that, but I hope I can get it fixed. And yeah. I'm just gonna finish I'm gonna finish the hike and get this baby to repair shop. Are you ready to start packing? You probably wanna get outta here, huh? We said for 14 hours, - What kind of guard dog is that? See what the world around us looks like. - I can't believe this is This may be an unpopular opinion, but I really think that the of cubicles and concrete and computers was not How else do you explain and release when you get There is nothing I love more Literally just on the other Of course, being outdoors, to plan. I don't know how I ended - Following a little wooded This is like a bog. - It's very overgrown. Ah, ah. I don't think I'm gonna get very far. I really don't think walking down this way. Hey buddy. Yes there. You're good. Boy. Okay. This is definitely not what long relaxing beach walk. I see sand. - Yeah, it's actually just away from screens for a few days, - Using your body, walking, being really tired on and just being all on your own - Out here. Unbelievable. Why do we do these things so rarely. Why is this such a special thing? - I feel like we should this all the time. I know it's unrealistic and I know that not everybody wants to, but it just really makes you feel alive to the core of your being For the rest of the day. The rain kept drizzling, the waves kept crashing, and we, well, we kept walking. We walked and walked. And eventually when we got to my completely arbitrary 14 mile finish line, we stopped walking. The finish line felt so ordinary I honestly just sat down, looked at, feel, looked at the sea, looked at So did I achieve my goals here? Well, I did suck it up, but do I now enjoy the rain No, definitely not. That hasn't changed. So this video may not leave but I just wanna say one thing. Sometimes facing your as completing the workout or doing that one thing you've been dreading. Sometimes you don't have to to become a slightly