The Montreal protocol started the phase out using R22 starting in 2010. They allowed some 2020 when all production of R22 ceased. Anyone the existing stockpiles of R22. There's no ban R22 refrigerant or new equipment using it. from the conference in Kigali, Rwanda, focused on phasing down the use and and other high GWP refrigerants. R410a has 2,080 Global Warming Potential As part of the 2020 Covid Stimulus Bill, the passed, giving the EPA authority to regulate based The focus now was on lowering the GWP of known this for some time and has been working focused on moving from R22 to R410a based now the focus appears to be Some of the EPA approved refrigerants being and R454b, which have GWP's of 675 and 466 R32 is used in other parts of the world outside of for its use while others are promoting if you live in California, CARP the California Air Resources Board has phase-out requirements. Depending on whether there or whether some states seek a more aggressive but California has always been aggressive So, what is the timeline for the phase out of in 15 years, but California just might require not exceed a GWP of 750 by January 1st, 2025, Act. This chart is based on R410a and the phase The use of these new A2L refrigerants will cities, and municipalities, be updated before requirements will be written into UL and ASHRAE 15.2p for residential. There are Class A is lower toxicity, and class B is higher or 3, with 3 being the highest flammability. The are classified as A2L refrigerants, which are which are classified by ASHRAE 34 as class R32 and installing Daikon started using it are approximately 160 million A/C units The design pressures are very similar between so will seek to settle lower in the room. state during installation. Make sure there refrigerant and equipment manufacturers When repairing an indoor unit a draft needs Check to see that the room size meets the oftentimes they have charts which we'll flammable and will burn when its concentration percent and its upper flammability limit of 29.3 and currently sells them outside the U.S. market You have already been using R32 if you didn't R32 and 50% of R125, it's just now you'll be using by the manufacturer in order to ensure that you .You'll need some form of calculation based on in the proposed system. Manufacturers will indicate the acceptable room size per refrigerant As you can see for this particular European a curve on the chart that indicates the minimum basically equivalent to two pounds. You can or approximately 4.4 pounds of refrigerant you'll and you can see by the chart if you have 2.7 pounds of refrigerant then there are are required for R33 if you're changing from at a higher pressure than R22, and R32 uses a could cause sludge or other issues therefore should not be used for R32, such Have a dedicated manifold and hoses just for R410a to R32, since R32 has similar operating the use of separate manifolds and hoses isn't So now that we know that R22 is so much different just one component of an R22 system with that of you'll need to replace the coil also.But you should be cleaned. So, what happens if you exceed being used in relationship to the floor area it but as the refrigeration system gets larger there of the rooms served are large enough to handle a If you exceed those limits, then you'll need some circulating supply fan to help dilute the Using a leak detection system will activate environment. The leak detector when activated to run continuously to dilute turning off the compressor to avoid pushing more shutoff valves in the refrigeration system to while opening zone dampers to allow more air a closet or whose volume of refrigerant is large Various refrigerant leak detectors are currently and Refrigeration Technology Institute. The currently available refrigerant detectors safety standards, with set points determined considering related issues such as upper detection sensitivity to environmental conditions, like If you like that video please give it a thumbs