There are many problems in but the biggest one for price. Prices rose 40% from the In the final half of 2022,he record shattering $468,000. That's unaffordable for to rent. The housing costs are wages. Some members of Congress part of the problem. What's outrageous is your Street buy up single family You're subsidizing Wall Massive private equity firms Partners have backed a homeowner, the corporation This growing industry buys homes and then rents them We hear from community doorknocking in certain surprised by how many of block will be owned by a Industry advocates say critical role in addressing crisis. What we have in housing in chronic shortage since the Crisis. And so the question that gap? Is the answer development, new housing participation? What's behind the rise of if at all, will the As of 2023, corporate small portion of the rental The vast majority of all apartments, are owned by investors. But there's family homes. Institutions. Large about 1% of all the rental States, and only about 2% housing. There's a small but mighty the industry. So Pretium is the parent Progress Residential that They were started by Don Goldman Sachs Mortgage Invitation Homes was Blackstone sold their They own about 80,000 American homes for rent, Hughes. They own about There's a company called out of Canada. And then there's one called Those are the big five. In recent years, corporate active in the Sunbelt. In 2021, corporations sold in Texas. That figure was 19% in Companies like Pretium and markets. Blackstone in stakes in several companies Rent hikes for single have outpaced other parts onset of the pandemic. Rents for a two bed about 43%. In Phoenix, they're up 44% That's compared to 24% Experts say that many of institutional groups were who were destabilized in After the pandemic, people into these lower income neighborhoods, buy up these that the working class can And they're holding these taking them off the market, young people and working house. Companies like Blackstone these investments. For example, the company's delivered an 8.4% return on This in a year when the nearly 20%. Part of the problem with housing is that they're in Their goal is to take a in order, then to sell it they did in the case of Unlike many smaller looking to have a profit, long term and see it as a more concerned in terms of terms of satisfied tenants turnover. With private kind of maximizing the In particular, real estate equity groups can be a inflation, boosting their Analysts write that by 7.6 million single family That could be more than 40% But that's a big if. Many real estate experts problematic housing market In the late seventies and States routinely generated starter homes a year. In 2020, we generated So we have a situation now up, but we haven't quite 15 years ago, lots of homes As Wall Street's risky the late 2000s, scores of Roughly 8 million mortgages between 2007 and 2016. Institutional investors that were on sale. A lot bigger. Investors rental game. They started distressed properties. And actually they really home prices because home hard. There was a decision to private equity firms to go You could argue that that market had been so This crash led to the birth industry. So I had a friend of mine He took me all around shared what was going on. And then out of that, I met idea was like, Why are we these people and try and the Housing and Urban provide all sorts of rental who are going to need it? Why don't we just basically restructure it, maybe say, not a homeowner, but You started to see the management in the single I mean, it was needed maybe for a decade, where it's now on Wall Street. Still, many people say that are providing a quality income individuals. They figured out pretty hard to be profitable when who are missing payments 70 year old homes that need So the Wall Street group and higher paying higher discretionary renters, not that's been a better profit Other experts point out that constraints, there aren't people on the market. It's almost a captive terms of with single family They've been very explicit out of the the home buying perpetual renters. Renting or buying your home consequential financial make. Home ownership is the main people build wealth. And while in some ways it whether somebody is renting Financially, it's very individual family and for they do own the home. That said... Not everyone wants to be a They want to be able to potentially move within another state. Moving and premium to most consumers, less than buying. It's actually favored by a Some of this can be observed It shows the so called home The time periods depicted would be a better deal. That includes most of 2021 Owning was a better deal years following the Great The changes in the home by home prices and mortgage Usually the cost to be an dollars a month higher, throwing in maintenance and That's even higher than Lots of potential buyers may correction in the housing m Over the last 40 years. The housing cost for the compared to the income of been running 29 to 30%. Whether you look at the has blown out to 42% right We have a pretty decline forecast coming. What I've seen, anything all this year to dropping Now, the thing that is than during the Great demand issue, there's still going to keep prices Some experts believe the is not to limit corporate whatever it takes to build Some of these big REIT's, building homes. They're desperately need. Experts believe this trend more time to prove its We can only find 909 rent communities, about 10% construction in the country But 26% of renters rent a So it's not even keeping up demand for single family Some members of Congress activity in the housing Wall Street is going to buy it's vacant for a couple of We're going to tax it, that back into the market. What we're saying is don't up single family homes. That's going to mean there on the market. With a split Congress, it bipartisan efforts to pass. There are some bills in the amount of homes that they're unlikely to get pretty drastic. They're they're going to have to sense, 100 homes or they're significant taxes on the Now, these institutional homes. In a statement, Blackstone they own could go to a the home later. I mean, we think, frankly, Particularly in terms of in industry. I think there are additional taxes on them money for affordable sell off from their And we do support rent Just cause eviction. Different conditions in habitability of a property. On the ground. A litany of direct relief to tenants control. Groups backed by hard. In 2018, the company oppose rent control for California, according to California at Berkeley. In a statement to CNBC, a the proposition would have housing crisis. At the same time, the made meaningful investments family homes. There's got to be a bit of term, this is the first