Boyajian's Star (KIC 8462852) Updates: The For a long time, extraterrestrial megastructures amateur astronomers. Tabby's star was one such huge draw. The strange lowering of light incident has Tabby's Star, also known as star KIC 8462852, in the scientific community for quite some why it experiences unpredictable episodes We talked about the strangeness of Tabby's explanations of the weird dimming of light. But more strangeness seems to have emerged Surprising evidence has been discovered that fading star. So just sit back and relax while we explain the star KIC 8462852 or Tabby's star. NASA's Kepler mission has fundamentally altered and other distant worlds. It has observed around 530,000 stars to date. There are over 2600 undiscovered exoplanets. One of these hundreds of thousands of stars KIC 8462852, commonly known as Tabby's star universe's most unusual properties: Its flux than what an exoplanet circling its star might It also fades gradually over decades, with emission (which all the other stars with large Scientists were perplexed by these discoveries We talked about different possibilities including in our previous video about the Tabby's But things have taken a turn yet again. The star's behavior altered somewhat last 1% dimming stage. This is not typical of the star, which often dips. In the Kepler data, for example, drops reached or so. Instead, we've been experiencing a consistent That also displays extremely brief intervals image of what it generally does. Another feature of this one percent dimming Since the Kepler mission, the dips in the and weaker dimming episodes. This might be explained by a collisional scenario, by Dr. Boyajian in the early days of this The difficulty is that this requires an impossibly comet that is more akin to a planet disintegrating. But, thus far, no models of this type have with this star. Another notable development with the present the material concealing the star during this period of time, effectively floating in and This was discovered by studying different imply that the dust cloud became much thicker yet stayed thick enough to keep the star visibly Optical thickness may indicate a variety of a star, such as a massive extraterrestrial that the dust just became thick for a short But, while unlikely, some kind of alien origin The point is, this star is acting unusually, One especially perplexing element of this system. The star has a long-term dimming tendency dimming occurrences. After all, how plausible is it that two distinct star without being connected, especially when However, investigations comparing different have revealed that this dust is quite modest. This is submicron material that should be So whatever is going on appears to be replenishing contradicting collisional models. On the other hand, the fact that the dips discovered them appears to corroborate a collisional Another interesting finding is that the drop of periodicity. The establishment of periodicity is critical star. Establishing periodicity would answer many is a phenomena of interstellar dust that we or whether it is truly in orbit around this Interstellar dust is implausible since we to KIC 8462852 from our vantage point. A cloud at night does not obscure just one your vantage point. This is the same for the galaxies too. This is not observed, and whatever is going star system, implying that the dust surrounding This orbit is critical, as it appears that it within the star's habitable zone. The evidence for this appears to be mounting. But here's the rub: at the observed size of particle, it should be warming in Infrared No infrared emissions from this dust have dimming tendency of at least a century, some shining with warmth. It appears not, but established periodicity information on whether the dust is genuinely The best natural idea for explaining the star's in which cascades of material smash and form But it's difficult to imagine a technology If you can recall, significant evidence for in previous sky surveys stretching from the observations and those made subsequently. Whatever is going on is happening in a continuous What that procedure is still a mystery. And it gets even more mysterious now with Edward Schmidt discusses searches he's done candidates acting similarly to KIC 8462852 in the description below[https://arxiv.org/pdf/2111.01208.pdf]. Schmidt had little trouble finding applicants. This is wonderful news for Tabby's star since If they are caused by the same phenomena, data on various candidates and gain a much stars. In fact, he discovered that Tabby's star may that exhibit the same puzzling variations The light curves of these stars, known as star, yet there's something strange about Two distinct patterns have arisen in this random chance, albeit additional data and The first is that the candidate stars appear More and more of them appear to congregate This is not consistent with a random distribution And that's where this gets strange. Coz This is what you would expect from an You might wonder, Fifteen stars, tightly clustered to be flickering in an unnatural way. Is this a techno-signature of an advanced However, the clustering remains unusual. Naturally, the following question is, &quot;Is and that the effect is caused by some intervening This isn't the case since, once again, you'd the impact, which isn't visible. So whatever it is, it is happening immediately justification for the apparent grouping, if But then there's weirdness number two. The candidate stars cluster not just in space, diagram. This is quite strange; all of the stars are the sun. This does not appear to be the case for giant On the surface, this makes no sense. You'd assume it'd happen with orange dwarfs, However, it's possible that those sorts of than Type F and G stars, but that's just a that Type G stars are obviously really excellent F stars are a bit shorter lived, but rather life to develop around, they may be just great But it goes without saying that this development clustering in star classification all at the As a consequence, the article proposes that investigation by SETI. And, moreover, they should be investigated perplexing event that appears to happen to or otherwise. Just when you think you've got a good hold This has been the case for this celebrity will be more surprises in store. So what do you think about the continued strange What possible explanation can account for Let us know what you think in the comment And don't forget to like the video and subscribe making high quality content for you!!