Move aside and let the man go through Let the man go through Move aside and let the man go through Let the man go through, through (upbeat funky music) Too fat, fat you must cut lean You got to take the Chump (upbeat rock music) - Swan's dead. - Franzy, now Swan? - We can't get a hold of the (ominous music) Boss, what are you thinking? (ominous music continues) - Ugh, ugh. Ugh, ugh. Ugh, ugh. Ugh. - Enough. This ends, right now, Just tell me what you figured (ominous music) - Andrew? - I'm thinking there's someone hell bent on taking out the special investigators and they're coming after us. (ominous music intensifies) - We've already got a beat on so you're not saving 'em by not talking. (Franz spits) Wait, I don't understand. Was it a car accident? - No, we just kicked the car. - Well, then how the hell - He kicked the car, then and he knocked his dick in the dirt. (ominous music) I'm telling you, this guy's a beast. Time comes, I'm gonna need some backup. - And you'll get it. But for now, you just and don't (beeps) this up. - Understood. - Okay, you've got nothing to say. (ominous music) - They rented a car under a fake name, (car revs) but it's, uh, it's Carla Dixon. (paper rustles) She's with them now. They're headed towards Atlantic City, probably gonna try to find - Good, all in the same place at once. When you get there, take 'em out. - Copy that. You remember what I said I know some local talent. - Well, bring in whoever you need. We'll cover the tab. I just want them dead by tomorrow. You hear me? (helicopter whirs) (catch clicks) - [Pilot] Last shirts. - You talk, or you fly. (beeps) (helicopter whirs) (Franz laughs) What's so funny? - I was just thinking about what the big guy's gonna do to you. (suspenseful pulsing music) (metal clanks) (dramatic drum music) (rope whooshes) (blade swishes) (dramatic drum music continues) (suspenseful music) - Okay, I'm serious. No more (beeps) cowboy (beeps). (door clunks) - So, what are we gonna do now, boss? - Saddle up, 'cause we're about to do a (dramatic drum music) (fist whacking) - Ah. (brick thuds) (fist whacks) (dramatic drum music continues) (metal chinking) Ah! (trowel squelches) Ah, ah! (dramatic drum music continues) (body smashes) - Talk. - It's not that big of a deal. Little Wing is just a code name. - For what? - For a new technology some incredible anti-missile software, originally developed to but a certain aeronautics - Let me guess, New Age. - That's right, New Age. They found the software could be tweaked. It could be used in missiles - No, it looks like Swan's According to the bill of lading, Swan personally signed off on the shipment before he left the factory. - So he's in Denver. - No, the paperwork said he - So they forged his signature. - It's a digital thumbprint. - [Karia] New Age, New York, thumbprint locks on the computers. There's no way that anyone through that maze of biometrics without causing a huge scene. - The only way they wouldn't is if all thousand plus (ominous music) - It could be scaled down and installed in portable, shoulder-fired, surface to air weaponry. The software allows missiles to defeat all known countermeasures. - How? - That's a question for a Okay, all I know is that completely bypass their target, making pilots believe and then they recalibrate, turn around, zero back in on the It's death from above and - [Frances] And the odds of - Minimal. - I know you wanna believe We all do, but things Talk when we're safe, okay? (dramatic rock music) (fists whacking) - Ah. - Ah. (fist whacks) (fighters grunting) - Ah. (dramatic rock music continues) (arm snaps) (leg snaps) (fist whacks) (fist whacking) - Where are you now? - I am just outside. Oh no, that just can't be right. French Lick? (beeps) Americans. - Indiana, okay. The little wing chips will be ready to install on the missiles by the time you get here. And Mr. Swan's associates That plan's already in motion. (phone beeps) (beeps) you, King. (ominous music) (beeps) (phone rings) - Yeah? it is, just not in the way you hoped for. - You're causing a very complex - $65 million worth, Langston? Assume that's who I'm talking to, head of security? Head of this whole thing? - Maybe we've been approaching Mr. Reacher. - Just Reacher. - Jade, get in the back (ominous music) (gun bangs) (Jade screams) (tires screeching) - Okay, Reacher, why don't we make a deal? I have the means to give you What is it that you want? (ominous music intensifies) - I wanna throw you out of a helicopter. - Just stay down. (bullets whizzing) (phone rings) (phone beeps) - Hey, they tracked us down. - I don't know, and I We're under heavy automatic fire. (car revs) (gun banging) (beeps) - It's Russo, we gotta go. - Give us some good news. - Sure, you're down another man, but I left his body in the (ominous music) - Oh, that's okay. Since you've made it a I've come up with my own contingency plan, and I've got two of your guys. (beeps) See, I still know (ominous music builds) (car door slams) (ominous music continues) (gun bangs) - How much ammo you got? - Not enough to cover your (beeps) plan on running outta here. - I'm gonna have to make do. - On three. - One, two, three. (guns banging) (glass door smashes) (guns banging) - After the untimely I had the GPS on his precinct car run. Nothing unusual, except for a a by the hour tug joint that that boy scout would never visit unless he was working a case. Just so happened it was the same night as a hell of a fender-bender So, today, I sent some and guess what they found? (dramatic music) (helicopter whirs) - No! (grunts) (dramatic music continues) (beeps) - Ah, ah, help. (dramatic music intensifies) - Here's the deal. I can use your pal's bra knuckles and smash your you skull or you can let the (beeps) fall, and I'll be merciful and Ah! (dramatic music intensifies) (flesh squelches) - Ah, ah. (dramatic music intensifies) - Hey, I told you, Punch, Now beat it. - Private property starts My parents pay for this - If you don't get outta here, I'm not gonna call the cops this time, I'm just gonna kick all your (beeps). (everyone laughing and chattering) I'm a man (fence buzzes) - Eat (beeps), narc. (laughs) I'm a man - Oh, and the fence is electrified. (car revs) (dramatic music) - Oh, no. Wait. (knife swishes) - You'd better hold this thing steady or we're gonna find out the hard way if I can land it. - Yes, ma'am. - I like that kid. - 'Cause he fights the power? - No, 'cause he just gave me an idea. (helicopter whirs) Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. (fist whacks) (dramatic music) No, no, no, no! You, you can still stop the missiles from getting into the No, no, no, no! No, no, no! Don't, don't kill me and I'll tell you where (dramatic music) - I think we're good, Neagley. - Fire in the hole. (missile whooshes) - Wait for it. (missile whooshes) (helicopter booms) I guess Little Wing works. - Oh, one more thing. Where's the money? - What money? - You assume that's the But in an investigation, assumptions kill. - No! No! (dramatic music intensifies) (helicopter whirs) (upbeat music)