(guitar strumming) - Hello, this is Julian Lage and today I would like to talk with you about solo development, more specifically phrasing and Now, for me, improvisation and I find it to be kind Anything I've ever worked or struggled with, they've always been things where I go for something and I can't, or that feels like a So for me, that's why the test laboratory. You can go play, you can but I think I can go deeper here. I think I can, you know, For whatever reason, that's So it's like, it's doctor's orders. I gotta improvise to learn how That's how I think about it. Now, with that in mind, there that I keep coming back to. And the first one is, well, it has to do with the For me, so often I've of a subliminal agenda, you know, it can be as simple as &quot;don't suck.&quot; You know, what's the point of the solo? Oh, it's to show that I don't suck. What's the point of the solo? Oh, it's just to basically That's kinda the survival agenda. And though, let me be very clear, there's a time and place you don't wanna fall flat on your face. You wanna shine bright and do your thing. There's something about that that, in my experience, You know, so even though often the music feels like it can't really leave your own orbit. You know what I mean? We're looking for transcendence. One of my greatest teachers who I studied with at he would talk about the And I remember kind of for a long time. And then I had a couple moments, I still remember them to this day, where I saw what he meant, where the music was making decisions. And I don't mean this in a grandiose way. I mean, really, I think my my desire to not suck, my desire to fill in the blank, subsided. And what was left is the Now, that's wonderful to speak about, but what does that look like? And how do we implement, I was thinking, for the I would just demonstrate, because I think there's a And I want to improvise in such a way where I'm basically seeking I'm in the process of generation, that's similar to an agenda. So, I'm using those words kind of a little bit interchangeably. So, what's my goal? Be cool, play cool stuff. I'll do a little bit, One, two. (blues guitar music) Okay, fine. There's nothing to remember, there's not really a good or a bad, but what I can tell you is that my experience of that, I was stressful. Stressful because, by no one's I spend every moment Hunting, I gotta do, you know. And it's fine, but you get to a point where it's a little bit exhausting, and there's kind of a responsibility that I felt myself juggling. Now, what's an alternative? Space is always our frame, you know, pausing is always our friend. And when it comes to phrasing, but I'll say it again. Phrases really begin once In other words, it's just like speaking, once I've stopped speaking, you kind of hear what I just said. And that's a mechanism that is, improvising in players, that you kind of need, notes need room to breathe. There needs to be room around it just so that it can be processed. Forget anyone else, just by yourself. Like, what did I just play? In doing that, often things are revealed about the direction. Sometimes I think of it like, the solo's kind of and space to just see what's unfolding, versus overriding it. So I'd like to do a that's all that's gonna change. I'm just gonna leave pauses and listen and see if it pushes me anywhere different than I would've come up Here we go. (chill blues guitar music) Okay, and so, again, not but experientially, that had I felt maybe like a more Sure, I have agency, but maybe at the same time you're watching. The only difference is I can and you could stop We both have freedom in this relationship. Let's go a little bit deeper now. And what I notice is that the instrument, any tone production is And without going terribly deep into that, what I'm saying is that So you hear a note, and it's That's the simplest way to, you hear it and you go, you know. (plays note) It's rich. It's not just like a, it's not a doorbell. Well, those can be rich too, but it's a complex sonic experience. Often for me, when I hear and I pause and I listen, you kind of, almost like that still ring out in the mind's eye. Do you know what I mean? So you play something and there's kinda this aura oh, there's some energy there around it. A simple example of that is you play. (blues guitar music) As I pause there. Last thing I remember hearing is. (plays note) That's kind of the That can be so helpful in directing the flow of what comes next. The most simple, I guess, after the pause, pick After I finish this note, take a pause and then Why don't I do a chorus or two like that where whenever I play, whenever I stop, I pick up exactly where I left off? And I see if that is different. One, two, three. (mid-tempo blues music) I don't know. (mid-tempo blues music) Oh. (mid-tempo blues music) Okay. So for me, that was kind of fun because, it was extremely fun. The attention was less on &quot;Don't suck, I must do more stuff, be cool.&quot; And it was kinda like my only job is to just pick up where I left off. And it's simple, but I do think it's important, that's letting the music help us. We're getting closer to letting the music play itself, you know. Now, what I would like if you're interested in this, is, because this is often what I've done. Come up with strategies just like that, that one, two, three, four, five, doesn't matter how many, to remember that the music For me, in this case, it's or leave a space. For you, it might be, I don't know, it might be a breathing God, well, anytime I feel and puffing, my phrasing the window a little bit too. So, I'm just gonna actively look around the room, remember that I'm connected and then I'm gonna start up again. What does that do to the music? So in other words, you become or an explorer, someone and I think that's very Also, why not? You know, see what you find. It might be really fun and bring up some great music. The second part of this lesson though that I wanna share with you now, which is a little more, It has to do with rhythm. Now, phrasing implicitly, we're talking about rhythm, It's no different than speech. But there's a very, I would say, important feature of time, that, at least in my experience, it only gets talked And you hear drummers Bass players, I know a some guitar players. It has to do with the You hear people talk about this. I'm sure you felt it, if you haven't already What does that mean? Now, let's say, we'll take this tempo, I was just playing blues. (counting rapidly) And that was kinda where And subliminally, I was playing a solo with that subdivision in my head. I was kind of hearing boom, boom, boom. (jaunty blues guitar music) Now, I can hear that in my playing, that there's always this kind of pulse, and there's nothing wrong with it. That's just what I'm hearing. However, if I adopt, I guess, an allegiance meaning instead of. (clapping softly) I feel it as. (delayed clapping) Same tempo, but I'm just What does that sound like? Ready, go. (soulful blues guitar music) So, I don't know what your but my experience is that there's just a little It's a little less da da da da da da, and it's just (hums) And that's cool to know It's also affecting the and my breathing and my listening. So, as always, everything's connected. Let's go further. So here's our tempo roughly. We did this. (clapping rhythmically) What happens if we go? (clapping rhythmically) So I'm feeling. (soulful blues guitar music) It's more languid, there's It's almost as though of four beats. (humming) I've got room to maybe and so on and so forth. Now let's just go do a couple more so you just see the which I'm sure you already do. If we do. (clapping rhythmically) And then we go. Then we go. (clapping rhythmically) (mumbles) (soulful blues guitar music) Okay, so it's a different It's all me, it's all music. But I notice that, as the beat gets wider, it feels more like there's And when I go back to, just to go back, so you can see as a reference, here's what the quarter (peppy blues guitar music) More bebop-y, less space around it. Fine in its own right. The point of this, okay, is that you have, we have agency over the from a rhythmic perspective. The wider the beat, the more it can usually oh, I'm wrong. It's a very forgiving beat. And so many of my favorite or just admired, everyone to Elvin Jones to Billy Max Roach, all of, they So when you're playing with them, as I get busier, they get wider. As I get wider, they can kind So I just wanted to bring for us guitar players and how we feel the beat really informs the Additionally, our and picking up where we left off, letting the music kind is very important for our solos. And all of that comes back to our relationship with the instrument. I hope this, if nothing else, just sparks curiosity about all of that, and may you take it further One last note I'll make is the most I've gone up to once every chorus. And if you're doing a long So you play a ballad and it clicks, and then a minute later clicks But boy, do I enjoy that without the kind of tyranny Something to think about. I want to leave you by this beautiful Collings OM1A JL guitar. I've been playing it for years, and I use the D'Addario nickel which I use on all my acoustics, Anyway, thank you. It's been a pleasure. See you around. Bye.