You know what's a lot harder Actually feeling alive. And what I mean by that or, at least, we're constantly scrolling. But we're not necessarily living. You know, we keep ourselves busy but we're also languishing. We feel a little bid dead inside. And I think we know that, on some level. I think that's part of the reason we keep ourselves so busy But we don't know what to do about it. So I'm here to tell you We need to have more fun. (Laughter) (Cheers and applause) So you might think that you're already and that's because in our everyday speech, we often use the word &quot;fun&quot; to describe even if it's not actually enjoyable, So for example, we scroll even though doing so often makes us feel Or we'll say, &quot;That was so fun. (Laughter) ... in response to things and that we don't want to do again, ever. (Laughter) But it's not really our fault about how we use the word &quot;fun,&quot; because even the dictionary It says that fun or lighthearted pleasure. It's something for kids It makes it sound But if you think back on your own memories that stand out to you and I really encourage you to do this -- the memories that you would describe as -- and forgive me &quot;so fun&quot; -- you're going to notice I've collected thousands of these stories and I can tell you it's amazing, because when people recount the memories they tell you about some memories of their lives. So in reality, fun is not It's not just for kids, and it is definitely not frivolous. Instead, fun is the secret So today, I want to propose to you a new, more precise definition I want to reveal some of the ways and I want to give you all for things you can do starting right now So the first thing we need to start with is the fact that fun is a feeling, And that's important, because a lot of times, they'll respond with a list You know, they'll say, &quot;Dancing is fun,&quot; &quot;Pickleball is fun.&quot; Everyone seems to think (Cheers and laughter) And sure, pickleball can be fun, but we've all had experiences and an activity that seems doesn't end up feeling fun. And then on the flip side, we've had experiences where something ends up feeling ridiculously fun. There's an element of serendipity. But when people do have fun, when they experience this feeling, it's actually very easy to recognize, because people who are having fun look like they're being So, for example, here is me and my husband Here are some presidents (Laughter) Here's Archbishop Desmond Tutu (Cheers and laughter) Actually, those two seemed like (Laughter) ... having fun together. (Laughter) And as you can see in these photographs, true fun produces this visceral sense It's radiant. In fact, when I asked my daughter, what color fun would be, she said &quot;sunshine.&quot; So what is this sunshine? You know? What is this feeling When people tell me it's really interesting, and often quite mundane, but the energy running There were three factors to the point that I believe one that is a lot more accurate And those three factors So by playfulness, I do not mean you have to play games, or, God forbid, make believe. I just mean having a lighthearted attitude of doing things and not caring too much about the outcome. Letting go of perfectionism. When we have fun, our guard is down, and we're not taking ourselves Connection refers to the feeling of having And I do think it's possible, to have fun alone, and for this feeling of connection or the activity. But in the majority of stories about their peak fun memories, another person is involved. And that's true even for introverts. And then flow is the state on whatever we're doing that we can even lose track of time. You can think about an athlete or a musician playing a piece of music. It's when we're in the zone. It's possible to be in flow like if you're arguing, but you cannot have fun So playfulness, connection and flow But when we experience all three at once, something magical happens. We have fun. And that doesn't just feel good, it is good for us. In fact, fun does so many that I personally believe that fun is not it's a cause. So, for example, fun is energizing. When people tell me their stories It is like a fire has been lit and the energy and the warmth You know, so much of life drains us, but fun fills us up. Fun also makes us present. A lot of us put a lot of work we do yoga classes, we meditate, but the fact that fun is a flow state we simply are present. There's no other way for it to happen. Fun also unites us. We live in a really polarized world, and as we all know, But when we have fun with people, we don't see them or nationalities or religions. We connect with them as human beings, and it's worth noting in being able to work together Fun also makes us healthier. Being lonely and stressed out, as many of us have been causes hormonal changes in our bodies But when we have fun, we're relaxed and we're more both of which have the opposite effect. So, kind of blows my mind every time but having fun is a health intervention. And then, lastly, fun is joyful. You know, we all so desperately We read books about happiness, we download apps about happiness, but when we are in a moment So it makes me think that, perhaps, the secret to long-term happiness is just to have more So how do we do that? How do we have more fun? Well, to start with, do not take the suggestions about how to have more fun. I looked at some of these myself, and I found suggestions that include -- &quot;roast a turkey.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Put together an altar (Laughter) "Watch a documentary (Laughter) And my personal favorite, &quot;Adorn your table with gourds.&quot; (Laughter) Those are not good suggestions. Instead, the most effective thing is to focus on its ingredients, do everything you can to fill your life connection and flow. So here are some ideas for how to do so. To start with, reduce distractions Anything that distracts you and prevent you from having fun. And what's the number one for most of us, these days? Oh, thank you. (Laughs) It was rhetorical, but yes, your phones. (Laughs) I wrote a book called so I have strong feelings about this, but I can guarantee you if you're constantly on your phone. So today, I want to challenge you as much as possible, so you can take me up which is to increase connection by interacting more Now, I know that one of the main reasons is specifically to avoid and interact with other (Laughter) So I want to assure you and it is not as hard as it might seem. So here's how you do it. You start by making Like, look them in the eye, don't look in the middle where the camera would be on a Zoom call. (Laughter) And you say "Hello." And if that goes well, And if that goes well, maybe you can ask them a question, but not overly personal or threatening, like &quot;What's something Or &quot;What's one thing And you might be amazed by how good can make you feel. And if you do find someone maybe ask them to join you which is to increase playfulness Now I am not talking about I'm talking about playful deviance. I'm talking about finding ways of responsible adulthood, and giving yourself permission One person told me that some of the most fun happened on a Friday morning, when she and some of her friends and their childcare responsibilities, tucked flasks into their purses and snuck out to a 10:30am showing (Laughter) So lastly, here's one more thing to start having more fun. [Roast a Turkey] (Laughter) Prioritize it. That might sound totally obvious, but one of the main reasons is that we're not making it a priority. Our fun is always and it can't speak up for itself. So I'm not suggesting that you take out that says: "From 4 to 6pm That is a guaranteed way to not have fun. But if you know you consistently have fun when you spend time make a point to spend time If you know there's an activity that really does often generate carve out time for it in your schedule. Treat fun as if it is important. Because it is. I've been doing this myself and it's amazing to see how many areas I'm more creative and more productive, I laugh more. Making sure that I'm having enough fun a better parent and a better friend. And it has convinced me of something that I very much hope which is that my daughter was right. Fun is sunshine. It's a distillation of life's energy. And the more often we experience it, the more we will feel Thank you. (Cheers and applause)