Closed Captions were added by Moxi Media. He has run away Don't waste your energy Jingwei bird can perceive murderous look and only the dead can see its face In order to find a missing scout ship Zhoushan's haigouzi, the East Chamber guards, royal guards Even the East China Sea Navy has stepped in god shit Don't move sir Only this guy is the fattest The prisoner, Huo Fu killed the boss of the East Factory Although he showed no obvious signs, he must have this idea Kill him now sir sir sir please give me a break,sir sir Be careful if you break the gall bladder the meat will not be fresh Cannibalism is no different from animals I hope you will think twice How dare Yan Lie offend the governor Arrest him This is the seed found in seabird dung Birds have short intestines There are seeds in its feces proving that there must be islands within a hundred miles Is it shit What a shitty island! I couldn't wait any longer. I'll kill you and use you for wine zhaozhong A year ago, the Minister of War, Wang Qian's family of 106 are killed by your Royal Guards The evil stench of the House of the Minister won't go away for half a year. when it comes to evil How dare I compete with Lord Yan The Emperor's grace is so great that the Royal Guards are sworn to obey orders great Commander Yan Lie of Royal Guards took orders Kill this guy Lord Yan Lord Yan, please spare my life Lord Yan, please spare my life Breeze again Protect the Governor! It's impossible It's strange how there are two moons in the sky here here Lord Yan Lord Yan Lord Yan Lord Yan There's no more room for newcomers in this boat You have to decide whether he lives or you live Human life is at stake Mermaid Girl, there is a difference between men and women Are those mermaid beads you sucked back in I am grateful to you for saving my life I am so grateful to you So you can talk So you can talk Why I can't talk Amazing Afraid of water, without a tail and able to walk a thousand miles you're what mum would call human, right Are these human mermaid beads interesting My name is Yan Lie I am Shioyin It's beautiful What are you looking at? What's wrong Boys and girls should keep the distance. This is that Boys and girls should keep their distance. stop Bring it here Let her go. The legend says that mermaids take on human form when they leave the water, and so it is. Mermaid I ask you where is this This bitch is hot You're crazy to think of women this monster might be the evil dragon Let her go Swirling in the Wave Sea That's right That's right I'm so hungry Eat up It is said that this mermaid lives on mermaid pearls The mermaid beads are held in the mouth and can be moved around in the water. Eating it also rejuvenates the flesh and blood It's all-powerful A great tonic! Governor Kill it If it wasn't for Miss Shioyin's rescue we would have been eaten inside by the dragon Never repay a favour received with hatred Don't worry, Lord Yan. Kneeling and talking Crab There's food Ghost-faced Crab It's all true It's all true run Sorry, Miss Shion Mixed Thunder Run for the woods Brother Brother What the hell is this Why don't the bastards come in They are afraid to go into the woods there must be a worse monster in the woods. Look, my lord these are the claw marks of a dragon and there must be its lair deep in the forest. I don't want to die I want to go home I want to go home blessed with heavenly fortune, The Emperor said I have recently heard that the Penglai Immortal Island has reappeared in the East China Sea and that the spring water in the island can prolong one's life. The letter said to keep it a secret, and I was so happy that I ordered Gao Dehai, the eunuch at the head of the East Factory to be the chief officer of Penglai and appointed the best members of the Royal Guards to go with you Please do help me to seek the magical spring water that's all ok All hail the Emperor This is a letter written by God's own hand A hundred years ago, Governor Zheng made many trips to the Western Ocean and included in this book all the wonders he saw along the way The island of Penglai sinks 500 years into the water and emerges 500 years each The magical springs in the island can prolong life writes this book. admiral zheng Miss.Xiyin do you know Governor Zheng It was I who heard my mother talk about it It is true that a group of humans came to us over a hundred years ago and taught us the human language. But we don't have springs here that extend life only water that keeps us alive Yes, yes, yes It is the magical spring that prolongs life take me there! no way The water of life has been dominated by a dragon for a long time What's the point of keeping you then? Yan Lie How dare you disobey orders Eunuch Gao The power of the dragon cannot be stopped by the power of ordinary men I watched Xi Yin defeat the dragon with the sound of a mermaid's voice. May help the Emperor find the magical spring really Whenever I sing, the dragon won't dare to come near me Whoever disobeyed the Emperor's orders, they were all killed. Sharing worries for the Emperor a promotion to a higher rank I will do anything for the Emperor's orders, no matter what I am the Emperor's order here on Penglai Island I will do anything for the Emperor's orders, no matter what I will save this mermaid's life for you for three more days go Xi Yin we should go give me a hug Xi Yin You'd better come down and walk on your own, it's not polite It's nothing We mermaids have a very hard time walking although we grow feet as soon as we touch the ground. It hurts! no Besides, Yan Lie is so warm and the more I hug you, the warmer I feel! Xi Yin Cover your body so that you don't get into trouble Sin Am I the bad guy? Why I'm going to be in trouble no You're not bad On the contrary the more beautiful people and things are, the more likely they are to attract sin No wonder the bad guys are following you. I'm a bad person too No, it isn't. you are beautiful and warm By the way Where are your people All bitten by the dragon, I'm the only one left I'm sorry You didn't say anything wrong, so why say sorry? My mother said that the dragon had done nothing wrong and that we were not strong enough to protect the water of life. Yan Lie Yan Lie I will protect you for your mother no I've listened to my mother and I've become strong enough to defend myself Then you can come down and walk on your own no shit Come out Lord Yan Walk and Talk Lord Yan You saved me several times but I almost got you killed, I'm worse than a beast! I'm not trying to save you, it's just that hearts don't deserve to die. But But my father said my father said it's not a great man to not repay a kindness I must I must be willing to do anything for you. It's better to be a good person And take care of Xi Yin Don't worry, my lord, your great benefactor is my great benefactor. I'm not very good at anything but I'm very lucky A Fu, how dare you! Shoot to kill! My Lord, spare my life! spare my life! Xi Yin A Fu is timid, so don't scare him Miss Great Benefactor, you are good at ventriloquism. My Lord, spare my life! I'm sorry What about Lord Yan Men and women should keep a distance Governor Yan Lie colluded with the bad guys and disturbed the morale of the army. Or I'll find a chance... You're upset I'm loyal to you The sun and the moon can tell. Don't worry I wonder why there is a baby crying in this dense forest interesting ghost ghost ghost ghost here I found it. What is this thing? Is it ginseng fruit? Is it ginseng fruit? This fruit is the spirit root of the earth. It is said that eating one can live for 47,000 years, and smelling one can live for 360 years, Governor It' mine Mine Don't touch it Is this what you call ginseng fruit I meant to say could this be the ginseng fruit. Take a look, Junior. Why is this dragon different from before? It shrinks. Although the dragon is a fierce beast in the water, but the body shrink on the shore and change, it is not as good as before. That's just in time to avenge for my brother. Liitle pussy. Quick to sing ah, Charm it to me. NO. What the hell? I can only sing once a day, or I'll be unable to speak forever. Damn you didn't tell me earlier! Tu Long Protect the governor. Tu Long Take care of Xi Yin. Big... Big benefactor, let me protect you. No. Come on, use the Hunting Thunder! Head to the cave. Move! Get out of here Governor. Find someone as our price for us. Stop singing. The Imperial Guards and town governor, should not fall in love with a bastard, right? Why do you you hurt Miss Xi Yin? Ridiculous! It's just a filler. How can it come with a name? Yan Lie How dare you rebel? Yan Lie For a mermaid, you have repeatedly disobeyed me. What, are you trying to defy the imperial order? If the emperor's order is to kill innocent people and return evil for good, Me, Yan Lie, would like to die to repay the great emperor's grace! Governor, Yan Lie has violated the authority of his superiors and he deserves Are you satisfied, Lord Yan? Do you want to add one more shot? Thank you, Eunuch Gao. Yan Lie you are really good. I owe Miss Xin Yin two deaths. Remember, from now on, don't bark. I'm guilty of offending the governor. Deserves to die. Good. Let's go. What the hell are you doing here. Huda. Huda. Huda Huda. Huda Huda. Huda Huda. Huda. Don't swear. What did I say about? Huda. In the Da Ming Yongle year system, Zheng Tatnall also came. Yan Lie Don't worry, Yan Lie. My injuries have all healed. Little pussy Let me help you rub. Huda. Miss Xin Yin. You know their language? My mother said, We mermaids are good at music. And we can communicate with the flower face family. The flower face family worship our dragons as gods. And they are responsible for guarding the water of life. Ask them where the water of life is. You ask. Xin Yin. Ask. They said the water of life has been occupied by the dragon for a long time. They do not dare to go. They also said, you are wearing a dragon, they are afraid of you. Tell them, I am the master of the dragon. Take us to subdue him. They said they will take us to the water of life early tomorrow morning. Very well, very well. God help me. Here come the hard dishes. Is this human food? What did they say? They said that these snakes and insects, although they look filthy, actually they are all Penglai sacred objects. They not only prolong life, but also nourish the flesh and blood. Big benefactor, does this really works wonders? It's fake. I can't believe you've learned to cheat. Who let them want to eat me. This woman is even wilder. What is this woman talking about? She is the matriarch of the flower face family. She requests me to betroth you to her. What? Damn it! What's wrong with this woman's eyes? What are you hesitating for? This wild woman is looking to marry you. Lord Yan, I'll just tell you. I, Afo,have nothing else, but especially good luck. Be careful she eats you. Never mind. Lord Yan, when I become the patriarch, I will definitely cover you and the big benefactor very well. Kings have long arms. What are you waiting for? Go on, go on. Yan Lie, I ask you. Why was the water in the altar not allowed for me to drink just now? That is the wine. Drinking it will cause mental disorder and harm your body. Don't drink it. Did you drink? No,I'm not. I said no drinking. Tour wounds will be septic and scarring. Yan Li is very nice. Yan Lie is a big bad guy. That hurts. You, you don't cry. Ouch, it's really hurt. What a wonderful feeling. What's this? It's called candy. Yummy. When you mermaid cry, do you all shed pearls? If not, what else will flow? Shedding tears. What are tears? By the way, when it hurts here, we will flow seawater. The last time I flowed seawater was the time my Auntie died. That's tears. So seawater is tears. Then Yan Lie have you ever shed tears? It's been a long time coming. I don't remember it. Why? It''s because I have candy to eat. I want candy too. I don't want to cry either. No more. It' s the last one. No way. Then Yan Lie, how will you do when you cry in the future? Yes. I don't need candy anymore. No, I can' t. Let me give it back to you. Miss Xi Yin. From now on, except your own husband, you must not be so frivolous with other men. What is husband? Husband a husband is, you like him, he likes you. The man who pampers you and protects you, stays with you for life and doesn't let you suffer a bit. If my husband is so good, then I want Yan Li to be my husband. Fool. I'm not fool. Yan Lie swallowed my mackerel pearl, which means that he will will be my husband for the rest of my life. Men and women can not hand pass by each other. Kiss, kiss. What the hell is this? Is it not a wedding? What's with the drama? Bold and unruly people, I will kill your nine generations Don't touch me! Who the hell are you! You scared me. Don't don't don't. It stinks. What's this? Not good. Governor, you are frightened. Kill all these beasts. Kill them all. Stay here. Afo. Afo. Afo. What the hell do you want? Afo What are they doing? It looks like a living sacrifice. Sacrifice to whom? If I'm not wrong, these flower face family are already worshipping the dragon. Water of Life. Where is it? In the middle of the island, there is a stone that looks like a crescent moon. Every sunrise, the water of life will flow from this stone. Very good. Very good. What do you want to do? Help! Ready to strike. Wait, it's not even dawn yet. Don't hurry. Lord Gao, human lives are at stake. That's funny. It's the Emperor's order that matters. Lord Yan, watch out. Son of belial. Quickly go to save Yan Lie. Let me go. Lord Yan Lord Yan Lord Yan are you okay? Yan Lie. So the mermaid also knows how to change the sound. Let her go. Take it easy, Lord Yan. When the mermaid helps me kill the dragon to capture the divine spring, I will naturally let her go. She won't stay alive if she keeps singing. What does it matter to me? Yan Lie. The reason why I let you live until today is because I know that the mermaid will definitely save your life and sing again, and then help me kill the dragon. You, just act as the last bait. Dragon. Dragon. Xi Yin. Lord Yan. Today we are not going to live. In my next life I'll work for you like a cow and a horse. Xi Yin. Sing it. To save your beloved. Don't mind me. No singing. No singing. Xi Yin. What is the dragon to fear? That' s just it. Governor, you are ambitious. Your great plan can be accomplished. Somebody. Blow this beast up. Throwing mines. Governor. Run. Sing it. Knock it out. Sing, bastard. Xi Yin. Gao De Hai. Don't come over here,. I am the royal order. Yan Lie. You dare to disobey the order. When I go back to report to the emperor, I will kill your nine clans, kill your nine clans. Yan Lie, the commander of the The Imperial Guards, followed orders. Don't come over. Yan Lie. Lord Yan. I'm just doing this so that we can all live, Lord Yan. Now we should join forces to fight that bastard. Lord Yan. Lord Yan. You can't kill me. You can't kill me. Huo Fu. Collect all the mixed thunderbolts to load into the red cannon. What gun? I got it. It is the legendary red barbarian cannon that can crack mountains and rocks. Come on. Bastards. Come here. Come on. Xi Yin are you okay. I will test the spring for the Saint. The secret handwritten notes are true. How did this happen? It seems that this immortality can only stay within this grotto. Penglai sink and float each five hundred years, so it is. Be your husband this thing, I'm afraid I can not do it. Listen, Xi Yin. Live well. Meet you a day can be a lifetime, enough. Xi Yin. Xi Yin. Xi Yin. Xi Yin. Lord Yan. I said I'm lucky. Is that right? It scared me. Go home now. Go home. My benefactor, Look. I've warmed up the wine for you. Let's go home. These days wandered, ten years have passed. My great benefactor just looked at the sea every day and also waited for a full decade. Ten years to exchange a Golden Millet Dream, is it worth it? But some people, even if they meet in a dream, it is worth waiting a lifetime. These few trips to sea are really not much luck. This time we went deeper into the sea. Maybe we' ll be able to catch a big fish. My benefactor, let's go. My benefactor, you save my life, I raise you for life. We are even, I guess. Weird old man. No friends. No candy to open your mouth. Look at it every day. Look at it every day. Turn over a big heel in the sea.