Can You Truly Achieve Awakening &quot;What is the mind? The mind isn't &quot;The mind is neither good nor evil, but it's does good and does evil. And it's what lets A brahman once asked the Buddha, &quot;Will all the world, or a third?&quot; But the Buddha didn't might misconstrue the Buddha's silence, took a fortress with a single gate. A wise gatekeeper opening in the wall big enough for even a cat to that his knowledge didn't tell him how many people that whoever came into the fortress would have the Buddha didn't focus on how many people would reached Awakening would have to follow the path establishing the four frames of reference, and What's striking about the Buddha's knowledge is they will have to follow this path, but the choice Buddha's knowledge of the future didn't mean that to choose. They can take up a particular course of The Buddha thus based all his teaching on were predetermined by the past, there would be number of people who would reach Awakening would would have no need for a path or a teacher. inevitably as a result of a long-past action or Those preordained not to But these things are not preordained. No you've had your first sight of the deathless It's contingent on intentional actions chosen in you're constantly faced with choices that will of course, is independent and unconditioned; on a path of practice that has to be willed. to its causes. This, as the Buddha noted, not to neglect discernment, to preserve truth, to Chapter 1. Assumptions about the Mind. the mind has to make some assumptions about and to receive the anticipated benefits. Buddha's strategy as a teacher was that even he nowhere defined what the mind is. you limit yourself. So instead he focused To begin with, the mind can change quickly. Buddha had to admit that he could find no adequate might say that it can change in the twinkling And it's capable of all sorts of things. it can do a huge variety of good and bad actions. than the animal kingdom. Think of the many animals on the land and under the ground, species are products of minds, and the mind can This variety comes from the many different choices and defilement. But the mind doesn't always deterministic. Even though past kamma shapes the it doesn't have to determine present kamma -- the actual experiences from among those options. Thus conditions for more ignorance, or not, because Although no one -- not even a Buddha -- can trace began, the continued existence of ignorance unskillful kamma. If these conditions This is why the Buddha said that the mind is and go. Taken out of context, this statement is inherently awakened. But in context once stained, is not permanently stained. the mind becomes luminous again. But this As the Buddha states, this luminous mind can be if something is to be developed it's not the this luminosity has been developed in it's abandoned once it has completed its The fact that the mind's own choices can most important assumption about the mind: It ignorance and to bring them to an end. The primary not to neglect discernment. This phrase consciously neglect discernment? -- but it points into how the mind fabricates its experiences. time right before our eyes -- even nearer than ignore it. We tend to be more interested in the the physical, mental, and emotional states we play. We enjoy entering into the make-believe noises made by the back-stage crew that would This ignorance is willed, which is why we to discern the back-stage machinations of understanding and motivation. You have as fabrications, looking less for the what -- they happen as part of a causal process. And you to see why you want it to influence the mind. The understanding comes down to the seeing things as actions and events in a pattern some actions are unskillful, leading to stress stress to an end; and that we have the freedom to -- which forms the basic framework of the four The motivation to develop appropriate with this understanding. You set your sights if you make unskillful choices, you're going you won't. This motivation thus combines good will step on the path. In fact, heedfulness lies at the in encouraging people to awaken, the Buddha from the innate goodness of their nature. and ordinary: that people like pleasure and hate gain that pleasure and avoid that pain. It was a for Awakening in this very common desire. When you stick with the understanding and it sets in motion the other three. For truth grows from seeing the mind's capacity are causing suffering. You want to be honest and even when you're attached to the actions that two stages: first, when looking for unskillful as the path nears fruition, looking for by skillful elements of the path -- they have done their work and need to be The determination to develop relinquishment can needs to be done. Relinquishment for not only do you need to see what's skillful yourself that you have the freedom to choose, skillful things you're afraid of, and The determination to train for peace helps for it reminds you that the only and that you want to look for ever-increasing the practice. This determination emulates the Awakening: the unwillingness to rest content levels could be attained. In this way, the stages dangers on the path, serve as stepping-stones to to the ultimate peace where all passion, This peace thus grows from the simple choice processes, as actions and results. But to has to be directed not only at the mind's but also at its fabrications about itself and you are is a fabrication, regardless of whether finite or infinite, good or bad. The path is also effortless, but fabricated nonetheless. If these they are -- if you regard them as innate or and full Awakening can't occur. This is why the Buddha never advocated attributing bad, or Buddha. The idea of innate natures slipped when the principle of freedom was forgotten. Past that there seemed no way around it unless mind that could overpower it, or an external you understand the principle of freedom -- that and that present kamma can always be free realize that the idea of innate natures is And it bogs you down. If you assume you won't feel capable of following the path, the work for you. If you assume that the mind easily get complacent. This stands in the way of and to keep you there when the path creates so trustworthy and real. If you assume a Buddha entangle yourself in metaphysical thorn patches: what good is it? How could something innately nature became deluded, what's to prevent it These points become especially important as you advanced stages of the path. If you're primed to natures, especially when you reach the luminous, emptiness, and undirected. You'll get stuck on what your awakened nature is. But if you're you'll see these stages as forms of fabrication, to pacify them, until you encounter Exploring Freedom. about innate natures or inevitable outcomes, freedom as it's immediately present each time and you don't find it by looking for your hidden at where it's constantly showing itself: in the conditioned by the past. You catch your first which you can choose and as your ability to act pain -- than you ordinarily might. Your sense of each time you choose the most skillful course of truthfulness, relinquishment, and peace. The require assumptions, but to keep the mind focused these assumptions are best kept to a bare minimum: courses of actions that promote happiness or it can train itself to achieve the ultimate These assumptions are the Buddha's starter kit will, heedfulness, and appropriate attention. As the bare essentials so that you don't weigh test the limits of freedom, for the closer you things fall away. First the nouns of natures and of action and choice. Then the verbs fall away, he didn't answer with a who or what.He a verb that has done its work. Similarly, when they say that his or her mind is released from release is experienced, they simply say, &quot;With No comment on what is released. Not even, as it's noun, no pronoun, just a past participle: Chapter 3. Faith In Awakening. demands on anyone's faith. And for anyone from such demands on one's faith, this is one of his famous instructions to the Kalamas, in which it as an invitation to believe, or not, whatever faith has no place in the Buddhist tradition, that But even though the Buddha recommends tolerance he also makes a conditional request about end to suffering -- that's the condition -- as working hypotheses, and then test them There's a hint of this need for faith &quot;Don't go by reports, by legends, by traditions, by analogies, by agreement through pondering 'This contemplative is our teacher.' 'These mental qualities are skillful; these mental qualities are praised by the wise; out, lead to welfare and to happiness' -- -- AN 3.65 The first few phrases in this passage, refuting are so strikingly empirical that it's easy to miss have to take into account what's praised by the make sense of the Buddha's teachings as trust your own unaided sense of right and wrong, So the Buddha's advice to the Kalamas is balanced: outside authority, you can't give unreserved go against the genuine wisdom of others. As other recognized by their words and behavior, but the the Buddha and his noble disciples, people who've toward those who meet these standards is faith. &quot;For a disciple who has conviction in the accords with the Dhamma is this: 'The Blessed One knows, not I'... For a disciple who has conviction what accords with the Dhamma is this: 'Gladly leaving just the skin, tendons, &amp; bones, but if human firmness, human persistence, human striving, -- MN 70 Repeatedly the Buddha stated that faith from that teacher. Faith in the Buddha's own else who wants to attain Awakening. As concentration, and discernment, this faith So there's a tension in the Buddha's I've discussed this point with many Asian uncomfortable. But Western Buddhists, raised been at war with science and empiricism, find the issue with them over the past several years, in the same ways that, historically, the tension has been resolved in our own culture. Three they are the most common but also because they they attempt to understand the Buddha's way that can be easily mapped onto the modern The first interpretation has its roots in the the legitimacy of faith. In this view, the ideal of the heroic agnostic, one who eschewed advocated a purely scientific method for Because his method focused entirely on the were totally irrelevant to his message. Thus any future rebirth, or an unconditioned input of the senses are later interpolations following the Buddha's example, The second interpretation has roots in the either the specifics of Christian faith or the appreciated the emotion of faith as an essential the Buddha as a Romantic hero who appreciated the of wholeness within and interconnectedness he saw the psychological fact of a living faith it doesn't matter where faith is directed, nourishing. Faith in the Buddha's Awakening means himself. This carries no implications for what karma and rebirth comforting, fine: Believe all-powerful God or a Goddess in your worldview, that you relate to your faith in a way that's Because this second interpretation tends a third one that encompasses the first two. This his historical situation. Much like us, he was life in light of the worldview of his day. assumptions picked up from the crude science was an attempt to negotiate a satisfying life he would try to reconcile his values in the same way that some Westerners The underlying assumption of this position religion with values. Science provides provide meaning. Thus each Buddhist would be the hard facts that have been scientifically the Buddhist tradition -- as well as other and values to give meaning to those facts, and in Each of these three interpretations may make but none of them do justice to what we know of faith and empiricism on the path. All three are to force his teachings on other people, but teachings and actions -- they misread what that he had strong reasons for declaring some and his teachings on karma, rebirth, and nirvana time. He was neither a Victorian nor a Romantic hero who, among other things, mastered the issue appreciate that way, we first have to step back at faith and empiricism in a more basic context, There, they play their major roles in the we like to think that we base our decisions empiricism in every decision we make. Even in our hampered by our position in time. As Kierkegaard Any hard-headed business entrepreneur will tell no matter how much we know of the past. What's there's no time or opportunity to gather enough we have too many facts -- as when a doctor is condition -- and we have to go on faith in deciding However, faith also plays a deeper role in many there are two kinds of truths in life: those and those whose reality depends on what we do. -- include facts about the behavior of the physical explode. Truths of the second sort -- truths of ventures, anything that requires your effort to best to stay skeptical until reasonable evidence won't happen without your faith in it, often in that democracy will work in your nation, it won't. worthwhile, or that you have the makings of a are the ones most relevant to our pursuit of true life are of people who create truths of this sort them. In cases like this, the truth requires If we dig even deeper into the psychology which no scientific evidence can offer any illusion? Are our acts already predetermined or do we have free will? Are the results of our or only a fiction? Even the most carefully settle any of these issues, and yet once we on them if we want to continue putting any These were the areas where the Buddha focused his first noble truth requires that we observe on faith his assertion that the facts we observe making decisions, moment by moment, throughout of suffering, is a truth of the will, we have a worthwhile goal, and that we're capable of truth -- the path to the cessation of suffering -- on faith that our actions are real, that we have to the workings of the mind from which we can the path will lead to a direct experience of the practice will you know this for yourself. means faith in the ability of your actions to lead Chapter 4. why people search, The Buddha offered these teachings to people That's why he was able to avoid any coercion listeners were already involved in a search. to search -- why people search, and what they're how to use faith and empiricism in a successful five of his similes illustrating The first simile illustrates search Two strong men have grabbed another man by burning embers. The Buddha notes, &quot;Wouldn't The twisting of his body stands for the way ask if our suffering is predetermined or simply put up a struggle and do what we The Buddha taught that this reaction is twofold: me?&quot; -- and we search for a way to put an end taught was suffering and the end of suffering, he an explanation of suffering and its end so as time showing the way to the end of suffering as the idea -- often advanced by later writers in the our struggle to resist suffering; that the search us from seeing the peace already there. In the a total acceptance of the moment means relaxing present keeps morphing into the future, and you This simile also explains why the idea of a people suffering from serious illness, oppression, that the only way to overcome these obstacles is as their rock-solid foundation. A man searching for fruit climbs a tree to eat to take home. While he is there, another second man can't climb the tree but he If the first man doesn't quickly get out of the This simile shows the perils of looking in sensual pleasures. If your happiness depends you're putting yourself in danger. As the Buddha not because they've ever really satisfied us but pain and suffering. If we allowed ourselves we'd be more willing to question our strong more willing to look for that as the third simile argues, if we A person searching for milk tries to get Another person searching for milk tries to get The Buddha taught this simile in response to being can do to attain release from as long as we follow the right method, like The right method starts with right understanding, comes in. As the Buddha once stated, he didn't was like a handful of leaves; what he learned the leaves in the handful contained all the right understanding begins with learning The most important lesson, and the most important itself. The Buddha achieved it through his own than human, but because he developed mental develop. To have faith in his Awakening thus means However, the specifics of what he learned It's not simply the case that he found for you may be something else entirely. it'll never produce milk. The Buddha's what it means for them to work. These When summarizing his Awakening in the most principle of causality that explains how we live events, and yet those events are not The principle is actually a dual one, for in our lives. The first is that of a cause When this is, that is; when this isn't, that the noise comes out; when you turn it off, the that of a cause giving results over time: From from the cessation of this comes the cessation long into the future. If you damage your brain, Applied to karma, or intention, the dual consists of three things: (1) pleasures (2) present intentions, and (3) pleasures and the present is not totally shaped by the past. your present experience of pleasure or pain is the raw material provided by past intentions. This is how there's free will in the midst of way intentions lead to results allows us to learn opens the way to a path of mental training that generosity, virtue, and meditation to learn to see what happens as our intentions grow more actually stop. Only when they stop can you And the spot where they stop is where the found. From there you can return to intentions, In presenting his teachings on karma and suffering evidence to corroborate them -- noting, for misery depends on how attached you are to that teachings with full-scale empirical proof. In the Jains, who attempted to prove their claiming that all those who kill, steal, from their actions here and now. &quot;Haven't you is rewarded by a king for killing the king's amusing the king with a clever lie, for seducing principle of karma is simple enough -- skillful to pain -- the dual principle of causality like a Mandelbrot set, that you would go crazy So instead of an empirical proof for his teaching you believe in his teachings on causality, karma, act? What kind of life will you lead? Won't you If, on the other hand, you were to believe doctrine of an impersonal fate or a deity who or a doctrine that all things were coincidental lead you to do? Would they allow you to efforts? Would they allow any purpose for you refused to commit to a coherent would you be likely to see a demanding path This was the kind of reasoning that the Buddha relevance to our own search for true happiness. The fourth simile stresses the importance of not A man searching for heartwood goes into a but instead of taking the heartwood, he Faith in the possibility of nirvana -- the getting waylaid by the pleasures of the sapwood being generous and virtuous, the sense of peace, strong concentration. Yet, surprisingly, modern teachings rarely mention this point, and focus surprising because nirvana is much less related or rebirth. We see the fruits of our actions all personalities and differing strengths, and it's connection between these things. Nirvana, experienced at all. It's already there, but mental activity. To touch it, we have to abandon that such a thing is possible, and that it's Many in the Buddha's time were willing to preferring to content themselves wanting simply to learn how to live life and go to heaven in the next. Nirvana, and gentle resistance to his teaching on But he was less tolerant of the stronger heavenly deities who complacently felt that their in the midst of samsara -- their sapwood -- was like this he used all the psychic and intellectual because he realized that their views totally your sapwood is actually heartwood, you won't look you'll decide that heartwood is a lie. But if you leave open the possibility that someday Of course, it's even better if you can take challenge in this lifetime -- as if he were saying, The fifth simile: searching for a big bull elephant, comes across a he doesn't jump to the conclusion that it's the there are dwarf female elephants with big feet. It some scratch marks and tusk marks high up on the that he's on the trail of a big bull elephant. tusks. The marks might be theirs. He follows under a tree or in a clearing. That's when he In explaining this simile, the Buddha said that into the wilderness as a monastic; adhering contentment, and strong concentration; seeing the cosmos dying and being reborn in line with marks of the Buddha's Awakening. Only when you followed his path, do you really know that your the dimension where suffering ends, you realize true but also useful: He knew what he was talking What's interesting about this simile is the skepticism. To act on this faith is to test You need faith to keep following the footprints, faith ends and knowledge begins. This is empiricism are inseparable. Unlike a monotheistic another -- faith in the Buddha's Awakening keeps Do you have enough power over your intentions to give you the freedom to drop intention entirely? is by being scrupulously honest about your of harm, even the slightest movement of intention totally unconditioned by intention, for sure. how can you trust yourself to detect any of worthy of your faith, testing its assumptions This is why science will never be able to pass for the path deals in matters that outside sympathize with your suffering, the suffering one else. The honesty and skillfulness of your something that is also purely your own. Scientists or intentional activity, but there's no external your intentional dialogue may be. And as for the The closest that outside empirical measurement ground and the marks in the trees. you have to do what the Buddha's disciple without jumping to dishonest conclusions, when the Buddha asked him, &quot;Do you take it persistence, mindfulness, concentration, Sariputta could answer honestly, &quot;No, As Sariputta stated in another discourse, that it touched a dimension where not only the functioning of the mind can't reach. have to touch that dimension in the only This is one of two ways in which the Buddha's The other has to do with the integrity As in science, faith in the Buddha's Awakening that hypothesis requires an honesty deeper and You have to commit yourself -- every variation Only when you take apart all clinging to your the activity of clinging is what hides the commit to this test, both because you can't and because he saw that the pit of