Mos Def's 1999 song "Mathematics" is The lyrics and music match each other perfectly, It's simple mathematics. Today we're diving allll the way into the breaking down the samples, recreating the perfectly matches the lyrics. Do you remember having to balance math equations One side might say 2+2, then there's an Once you fill in the blank with the number as 2+2 right? Both sides of the equation are saying the On one side of the song "Mathematics" other we have DJ Premier with the music. They're both saying the same thing, but This is the perfect metaphor for this song, non-metaphorical math as well. Mos Def, who now goes by Yasiin Bey, initially He had released a few singles, and teamed "Mos Def and Talib Kweli are Black Star" got a proper solo debut with the album "Black On this album, Yasiin continues what he started thoughtfully and brilliantly talking about that just grab you. This album hit number 1 on the Billboard Top from critics. "Mathematics" in particular is incredible This album features many great producers, who is unquestionably one of the greatest In addition to his own duo Gang Starr, he's Deep, Branford Marsalis, Biggie, Jay-Z, D'Angelo, Mac Miller, and so many more that I have to rest of the video. What I love about DJ Premier is you hear this beat. He has a distinct style, the way he chops to see, he's not just making a beat that He's putting a lot of thought and meaning We're gonna look at DJ Premier's work about the lyrics, and then Premier's incredible the entire thing and seeing just how deep But I'm getting ahead of myself, let's There are two elements that make up this beat: The sample is from the song "Baby, I'm Let's play the beginning and see if you Did you catch it? It kind of sounds SIMILAR, but it doesn't DJ Premier likes to obscure samples and make This can be heard all throughout his production, What he's done is essentially pitched this not really recognizable anymore. Then he puts his own drums underneath it, Let's see if we can recreate what he did So as far as the main beat is concerned, that's it. It's really simple, really straightforward, I'm kidding, it's going to go SO much Now that we've talked about some of the about what's happening on the lyrical side. Don't worry, there's LOTS more to talk In this song, Yasiin breaks down many different all kinds of numbers and statistics throughout. He starts out with the seemingly simple idea 1, 2, 3, 4, but starts to play with them a He does this at the start of both verses, 1 For Charlie Hustle, 2 For Steady Rock, Three Already this is amazing. Yasiin is starting out with a play on the for the show, three to get ready, and four and reworked many many other times in LOTS way here. Charlie Hustle is referring to E-40, and his after Mos Def's. "Steady Rock" is referring to the "Rock breakdancing and had a hit song of their own the forth-coming live Future Shock. First off, he plays with the count here, turning hints at something coming later in the song. So what is "Future Shock"? This could, and probably does refer to a few same name that breaks down a certain psychological "too much change in too short a period of Then there's the Curtis Mayfield song "Future that black people were facing at the time, ALBUM that features not only a cover of the - which was an incredibly influential song, the mainstream. In the first line here, Yasiin has already E-40's album came out a month after this it can be. The Rock Steady crew reference throws it back international hit song from 1983, and lasting then the "Future Shock" reference takes is going to be thematically similar with the Hancock, his song "Rockit" and specifically going to happen on the chorus. Viewed this way specifically Yasiin is saying is going to be some significant live scratching on the chorus. Referencing the book Future Shock, He's of change in a short period of time. With a simple count to 4, Yasiin is taking previewing what's about to come in the rest UNREAL Mos continues the verse, keeps counting, growing not only past, present, and future, but the and the expanding universe. So, in other words, he's talking about everything. He's talking about reality itself. Then he continues to demonstrate his lyrical industrial complex, poverty, violence, national crack epidemic, racial inequality, government And this is just the first verse. He wasn't kidding about that future shock. On the last line of the first verse, Mos says ass, You wanna know how to rhyme, you better The line "This New Math" means multiple It can obviously refer to everything that talked about enough, so would be new to the New Math curriculum that was introduced in and was changed because teachers and parents it themselves, and the students were too young So this "new math" that he has just listed of the 1960s. Most people aren't able to explain it fully, it. Then there's the great line: "you want to add, it's mathematics" He's saying to other, younger, wannabe MCs math - if you want to learn how to rhyme, meaningful and important and REAL - you are and that DO NOT add up. But at the same time, there are so many issues into the system - This is what modern life If you can see that and understand that, and are PLENTY of important things to talk about And then we get to the hook, which, really, If Mos is performing the verse, Premier is The main beat continues, but with DJ Premier over it. This is another layer of the forth-coming It's incredible scratching, and played all chorus. Now, I'm going to talk about the samples back to the main beat and it's gonna get REALLY mathematical. By the way, Tracklib has made a great video the specific phrases, with scratches and everything. It's amazing, a quick watch, and I'll So the first scratched sample on the chorus seen this cited as multiple songs, but it's off of Lyricist Lounge Vol. 1. DJ Premier loves to sample an artist's previous Next is the phrase "it's simple mathematics" by Fat Joe. Of course, this is a dream sample since it year before Mos Def's album. So Premier is starting in the present - just name, and the title of this song from a very Then the phrase "Check it out" is sampled phrase "I revolve around science" is from Ghostface Killah, so we're taking it back Then we get to the "What are we talking This is from an interview with political activist Here's a larger portion of the interview Considering what Mos Def just talked about with the theme of the song. Then we get to the phrase "do your math" song "On &amp; On" - this is where we start This Erykah Badu song alludes to teachings Five percent nation is a black nationalist Islam, and a lot of rappers are five-percenters, One set of principles of five percenters is are present throughout this song, and make DJ Premier is sampling the phrase "Do Your which teaches about Supreme Mathematics, in 5 percenter. This IS NOT a coincidence - it's completely a moment. But let's mention the last sample here - the Drummer - which of course has been sampled - it's a crucial part of hip hop history. I already made another video about that. But the sample isn't the drums, it's the So Premier is bringing back in a piece of you're used to hearing. So, in Mos' first Verse, the lyrical side present, back to the past, and even preview song, and talk about many different important That's one side of the equation. DJ Premier then balances out the other side same thing, but musically, by sampling and He starts in the present, goes back a few activist, who talked about many of the same who is a 5 percenter like Mos, which is hinting in one of the most sampled songs in hip hop numbers. DJ Premier has talked about this idea of balancing As he said, &quot;It's all about making a match with what the I'm like a tailor: I can tailor the suit to An artist like Jay-Z will tell me what he to the studio. I then make the track and the atmosphere sound Somebody like Guru gives me the titles to Other artists may come in with no ideas, they to songs I like by them and come up with something It can't be just beats and lyrics, it has you clasp your hands together." He mentioned in another interview that he's because Mos was bugged out, he had to make This song, Mathematics, is specifically tailored connection between the music and lyrics is This is FINE ART. But, do you want to go even further?? At the end of the first verse, Yasiin alludes this math that's baked into the system. Well, we're gonna have to rewind, because musically, since the very beginning of the Remember the sample from the Fatback band Well, hold on to that, while we travel to... I know, that's really weird sounding, but be amazing. There's a Disney cartoon from 1959 called seen it, you should check it out, it's an ways. In it, Donald Duck is transported back to without math, we wouldn't have music. Look, I could have lied to you and said I greeks and sound all smart and stuff, but it was Donald Duck that got me on this. Basically, the narrator explains that Pythagorus it, you get a note, and then when you divide octave higher. But then if you change the fractions in between, you get some other, very pleasant sounding This is, the narrator explains, how we got scale. Mathematically, it's easiest to get to these But you know what, Donald Duck or not, I hate Let's look at it in an even easier way. When you pluck a string, it's not only vibrating in half, and thirds, and fourths, etc on down If you were to pluck a string and gently place points, you'd hear a new pitch, a harmonic. Go to the halfway point and you've got an Go to the point one third of the way in and or the first note variation that isn't the the main note. It's "baked in" you might say. Let's just take that perfect 5th. You started with, let's say an A as your Then you go up a 5th, and you get an E. Great, go up a 5th again. You get a B. Up another 5th - F#, eh, do one Now if we were to put all of those in the A, B, C#, E, and F#. This is just another way of getting to the Regardless of which way you got there, those 5th, and Major 6, or more simply, the 1,2,3,5 Why am I talking about this? Okay let's stop talking about math, let's When the saints go marching in, Old MacDonald crazy line in Sir Duke by Stevie Wonder - What They all use the major pentatonic scale. Our western ears LOVE these melodies - they're easy to sing along with. Now, the pentatonic scale can be found in the United States specifically, it's most before that, which is derived from blues, American Slaves - which is why so many spirituals Hold all of that in your mind - and now let's has made in Mathematics. The notes consist of A, C#, E and F# - also scale. This song is a perfectly balanced Mathematical On the lyrical side is Mos Def using incredible that are baked into the system, part of what it all up, it doesn't make sense. On the musical side is DJ Premier scratching the chorus, covering similar ground, while pentatonic scale, which is mathematically of what modern music is built on. AND a bonus - the pythagorean system of fractions - because if you keep going with just the In other words, when you add it all up, it Now, did DJ Premier have ALL of this in mind Maybe not all of this, but he knows and understands doesn't just create beats - he custom tailors to say. Premier put it perfectly when he said, "That's left field. I love that beat. I chop that shit up lovely. You know a lot of DJs cut and attach stuff And that's not even to brag, it's just It's mathematical." The unbelievable musical skill of DJ Premier lyricism, and the result is a perfectly balanced thing in a completely different way. Mos Def's debut solo album is in many ways "Mos Def and Talib Kweli are Black Star" watch this video.