[from off-camera] Every year! I tell you it's No Effort November but you just... you don't believe me! I... I dunno how we got here but, um... *sigh* Hello and welcome to No Effort November, [said really fast] Before digital cameras were a thing, This film was available in a bunch of different varieties. The sensitivity of the film to light, or its speed, was one of a few factors you'd consider when buying film. Faster films, like ISO 800, were good for action shots since the camera could use a faster shutter speed and prevent motion blur. They were also good for lower-light situations, But faster films produced a grainier image, so if image quality is what you were after, you might have wanted to use a slower film like ISO 100, or even 50. Now, because changing the film's sensitivity to light cameras featured a setting for film speed. In manual cameras this would usually just But those were mostly used by professionals, would handle exposure automatically. But that can only work if the camera knows the film speed, so you had to match the camera's speed setting to the film you were putting into the camera. That sounds like effort, and if you forgot to change this when you put in a new roll of film all the images on that roll would be under or overexposed, and wouldn't that be embarrassing and/or devastating. Clearly, we need to make this a No Effort process. There were many potential ways to do this, for instance we could come up with a new kind of film cartridge that could communicate its speed to the camera through some sorta physical means like, like maybe the longer a little sticky-outy bit is, But despite Kodak's best and repeated efforts the venerable 135 format consisting of 35mm film spooled and encased in a simple round cassette with a light-proof tangential exit slot so it can poke out like a weird tongue just would not die. A big part of this was likely due to the fact that camera manufacturers had made the process of loading 35mm film much easier with time, which largely negated the benefits of self-contained film cartridges This Ricoh FF-3 AF Super, for instance, is an automatic point-and-shoot camera design dating from 1982. And it features easy film loading. Look there's film in here, OK, I'm not gonna open it to show you but it's just plop the cassette here, pull the film out of it and up to a little orange mark inside, close the back and press the shutter button. The camera will load it automatically. In addition to auto-loading the camera also features really this is a very competent point-and-shoot camera but! You still have to set the film speed manually Luckily by this time we had little windows on the camera back that let you see a portion of the film cassette where it would... usually list its characteristics (and also so you could tell if it was, y'know if there's film in there or not) but you could still screw this up and ruin an entire roll So, in 1983 -- almost 50 years after it officially -- Kodak would introduce DX Encoding to 135 format film cassettes. DX, for "Digital IndeX" served to make film handling easier It did this in three ways: first, this barcode on the cassettes identifies the specific film emulsion inside, and film processing equipment which could read this barcode could automatically determine developing times and ensure a roll of film wasn't about to go through the wrong development process. Secondly, DX encoding was also present on Once developed, film edge marking and barcodes also identified the film stock, which could be used in printing and scanning equipment Additionally, it encoded the frame numbers But the third and final part of DX encoding is, to me, the most interesting. DX Camera Auto Sensing would finally make loading a camera a Here, take a look. This is my Canon T90, and when I insert this roll of Kodacolor 200 , it knows that's ISO 200 film. Stick in some Cinestill 50D, and it registers as ISO 50. This Fujicolor Superia 400 shows up as ISO 400. And this roll of ProImage 100 registers as - you guessed it - 100. And apparently those are the only four speeds of film I ever buy. The camera determined the film speeds by using electrical contacts to read a series of patches on the surface of the film cassette. These patches can be shiny and electrically conductive, or covered with an insulating layer of black ink. There are 2 rows of 6 patches across the cassette's length, The five bits along the top row encode the film's sensitivity, and the bottom row is split into a three bit section which encodes the number of exposures on the roll, and a two bit section which defines the film's exposure tolerance - that's how wrongly you can expose it before it affects the captured image. This simple arrangement, when detected and decoded by the camera, will tell it all it needs to know for automatic operation. Now, this is a professional camera. And as such, it's capable of reading most of the encoded information. It will even rewind the film on its own when you shoot the last frame. However, it doesn't read the film's exposure tolerance. Frankly, I don't know how much help that would be But anyway, not everybody has a professional camera, So, when they designed this code scheme, they arranged the information so that a cost-cut consumer camera could set itself correctly for any speed between ISO 25 and 3200. This Yashica Samurai, for instance, is... a very weird camera, don't worry too much about that -- this is a half-frame SLR from 1987. Uh, it's definitely pretty high-end but also definitely still a consumer camera. And we'll see that in the film compartment Actually, the T90 has 16; Canon used a pair Which is weird because, like, the cassette is metal and it was designed so that the two patches closest to the spool post That's why they don't convey information, and the camera only needs to check for continuity across The T90 doesn't use the ground and instead I don't know why Canon overcomplicated this but anyway... The Samurai, with its four contacts (one of which is ground) That's all. That gives us 8 possible combinations which might not seem like enough but by the time DX encoding was a thing, consumer films were generally sold in doubles in speed, with 100 and 200 being perhaps the most common films, 400 pretty common but less so, 800 your "sports/action" film, and 1600 being pretty exotic. And see, even though we only have three bits we can start at 25 and through doubling get to... 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1600, 3200. That's eight! Kodak smartly used bits 4 and 5 in the five-bit code to distinguish the weird Speeds that pros might use with regularity, but casual photographers were unlikely to run across at the grocery store. This website I found has a chart of all the combinations and we'll see that the first three bits are identical across three speeds and only change at the next whole stop in sensitivity. That makes bits 4 and 5 essentially irrelevant for consumer cameras. And here's the other thing: if you mess up an exposure by a third of a stop it doesn't really matter. Print film, especially, has amazing exposure latitude and so really if you were to expose an ISO 1000 film as if it were 800 speed film... you wouldn't notice. Slide film needs exposure to be pretty on-the-nose but negative film is generally very lenient. These films are all coded as having +3 -1 sensitivity, so you can screw up exposure by a full stop in either direction ProImage 100, interestingly, can only take two stops of overexposure. The weenie. Oh, and while it might be nice for the camera well, it's not exactly critical info. There's little point in complexifying a You're just gonna shoot 'till you get to the end of the roll then hit rewind - plus most of the time you could squeeze another exposure or you wouldn't want the thing to rewind at "the end" anyway! And thanks to print film's generous exposure tolerance some other camera manufacturers would cost-cut This Minolta Memory Maker 2000 is a cheap maybe eight? I was young enough to go nuts with a blue sharpie and one point. Anyway, look inside its... backwards film compartment (that's distressing) and you'll find there are only two contacts pressing on the 3rd and 4th bit. If we go back to that chart I found, we'll see that those two patches are never connected together until we get to ISO 400, after which point they remain connected for 800, 1600, and 3200 speed film. So basically, if these contacts aren't bridged, which would be the case for any film less than 400 speed, the camera treats whatever film you put in it as if it were maybe ISO 100. You probably won't notice at least with print film because of the exposure latitude. But if you load 400 or 800 speed film, well now it knows you've got some fast stuff in there! It'll have to, like, speed up the shutter a bit! I would guess it probably just treats everything deliberately underexposing 400 speed film by a stop to get faster shutter speeds. And hey, as imprecise as this is, this did indeed work decently well. Its terrible plastic lens meant the images never looked that great If you should happen to find ISO 500, 1000, 2000, or 4000 film, though, I don't think Kodak intended the DX code I'm pretty sure this is what you might call a hack. As time went on, all of the film manufacturers From Ilford, to Fuji, to Kodak, to... others probably you could eventually expect any new film cassette to have these little boxes on them so your camera knew what it was. And now, this is becoming a bit of a problem See, lots of cameras -- including this Yashica Samurai -- have no ability When they were new, you could easily ask "why would you want that?" but now that film photography is the niche hobby it is, well there are plenty of films available which don't have DX encoding on their cassettes. The big guys like Kodak, Fuji, and Ilford And luckily the folks behind Cinestill are also sourcing proper cassettes. But other less expensive options like Freestyle's Arista.edu line of films... Well, they're missing it. There are also an increasing number of sort-of which often re-use cassettes - which to be clear, is a really cool idea! But they'll be forced cover up the DX code because it will usually be wrong. We are also starting to see plastic film cassettes wait, was Canon thinking that far ahead? Uh, there has also always been the option for My Canon T90 has a button to select the ISO but the Yashica Samurai - well, if it doesn't see a code, That's not a bad strategy necessarily but it's still really annoying that I can't use this camera unless the film I want to use has a DX cassette or just happens to be 100 speed. And I'm lucky that I was able to find documentation Loads of cameras from the '80s and into Luckily, if you want to use such a camera, you can now get DX code stickers. That's right, folks are making stickers now to put onto film cassettes that are not DX-coded specifically for making your weird 80's and 90's cameras work with weird film. I think the best use for these is when you're bulk-rolling film, But it's nice to know that that option is out there regardless. Anyway, I think that's about it. Now look, I didn't whip out the slider for B-roll. I didn't do any research. I didn't even warm up the set before I started shooting this. This was a low-effort production, alright? I phoned it in. This was in my back pocket for years. Just one day I was gonna talk about this. Well here we are, the video's made, it didn't now go have your turkey or whatever. 10-bit smooth jazz ...was available in a buncha different varieties ah deh... Well I screwed that up already! ...was designed so that the two patches closest That's why they don't contay... I did it again! Convey is the word I meant to say. [ guttural yell ] But, you could still screw this up and ruin a roll [belches] I don't know why Canon oversimplified this. I said "oversimplified?" Are you kidding me? The word is overcomplicated you... massive dingo. ...same stuff used in the movie business, [ deflates ] Pooooop Gotta be honest, after the effort I went through with the closed captioning data gag last time... yeah, well, you ain't getting much here. Just this. This is all you get. Good day.