All Tomorrows: A Billion Year Chronicle of Long ago, in the distant past, humans colonised planet. First, they made oceans using the create breathable air, then introduced genetically Mars was transformed into a habitable world ships. So "The first steps on Mars were on lush, green grass". and identity, separate to Earth. The low gravity almost a different species to the Earthlings. but as Mars started to surpass Earth, tensions glorious or exciting. There were no heroic fought by complicated automated machines, that caused unimaginable destruction. Billions went extinct, so the survivors of Earth and could never happen again. and economics, and they changed themselves. new subspecies called the Star People, made into space. And it worked. Within a few generations, the solar system. Other stars were too far sent out automated machines that would fly use genetic material to create people to live colonies, where many humans fell in love with mass identity crises. But the colonies that starting a "golden age" for humanity. lives, their worlds united by communication As the Star People explored space, they discovered intelligent life. So they wondered - were they found a fossil of a bird-like creature life - the native creatures had three limbs and calcium bones. It was related to an extinct extinct Earth animal end up on this distant have done it, and there was a resurgence of That there must be some civilisation out there of years before humans even had fire. Humanity But just in case, they built weapons to defend obliterate stars - but all of that was useless Humanity was attacked by a godlike ancient nomads", who constantly migrated through mission to remake the universe using genetic they didn't see them as people - they shape the Qu wanted. Within a thousand years, some human species lived on. Cause the Qu humanity into thousands of bizarre subspecies and to wild animals. They ruled over the human fucked off to find their next victims - leaving recognition". These twisted species were On one world, where the husks of dead cities They were humans, but the Qu had modified reduced their eyes to pinpricks, and removed Worms dug aimlessly through the ground. If other worms, they.. sometimes ate them - or but their humanity would eventually resurface. a vast savannah. Their hands were clumsy stumps, an elephant, and could be used like a hand. human species, and gradually, they evolved language, literature, made ornate wood carvings. of the bygone, half-remembered past". With a new humanity - but an ice-age hit the forever. predators, looking like the vampires and werewolves Their prey were also human - made into herbivores minds of animals, but the Predators, on the - which would eventually re-emerge. memory-retainers for the Qu. So they had fully around them. But in the bodies of grazing anything. So for centuries, "mournful herds and loss". They created whole religions frustration. Until gradually, mercifully, stupid simple-minded Mantelope survives as So within a hundred thousand years, this melancholy to evolution, and soon only animals remained. cause the Qu wiped out their intelligence, regain sentience - so they didn't suffer survived in symbiosis with some herbivorous simple-minded, the reptiles evolved, slowly The Qu twisted humanity into a variety of eel-people, and whale-like behemoths, and that served as food stock". Most of them survived, feeding on fish and crustaceans very human, but human eyes peered through each other - though, underwater, they couldn't The Temptors were so fucked up it's amazing bizarre living decorations - two-meter-tall plants. Those were the females. The males who blindly served their queen, controlled gather the food and guard their queen, and into this breeding tube like a subway commuter. mound forests spread across their world. They But they were obliterated by a comet, and died out. giants or ogres with beaks derived from teeth. by defecating on each other, but they were medieval level of civilisation, until they collapsed. quickly defeated. But one world fought back, The Qu punished and humiliated this world Colonials. They were disembodied cultures nerves. The Qu used them as living filtering no other reason than to make the Colonials and their eyes, so they could fully witness years, the Colonials suffered generations they were made to be efficient, and so they fields of human flesh". Though eventually, hope. like bats or pterosaurs, others like angels ugly creatures that floated on glands full a special starfish-shaped heart that processed energy to support flight and human-like brains. Hand Flappers had wings that were useless hands. All they could do was flap about to so they ecstatically flashed and danced their Some humans tried to escape the Qu by hiding made them into subterranean mousy morlock and long fingers and big ears and banshee-like off fungi and fish, and avoided predation trogdolytes looked fairly human, but where but haunting smooth skin. Eventually the movement habitats one by one. Qu made the Lopsiders - flat, deformed, dreams of Picasso, Dali or Bosch. The Lopsiders another limb used as an antenna, and a hand. eye scanned ahead. As wretched as they looked, They domesticated some native creatures, and On a moon with very low gravity, the Qu made who walked among huge trees that towered like so even with low gravity, a fall could shatter wiped out by a bunch of chickens who over On another world where the humans temporarily by creating an array of parasites, who were vampire-like ambulatory parasites, and smaller There was even one horrific parasite that these parasite life-cycles were so elaborate Qu left. But some of the parasites survived, hosts as well as themselves. archipelagos, calm shallow oceans sprinkled evolved to catch fish with their long fingers long snouts full of needle-sharp teeth. But on. pampered pets, living carefree lives of pleasure. fruits and lakes of sweet bacterial juice. and had no predators or competition to deal lead to overpopulation, but the Qu designed an enormous number of times. So the population lives with eating, sleeping, and mind-blowing who needed to think when they're having The Insectophagi adapted to eat insects. They scoop up bugs, and leathery faces to protect on their obscure world - but little did in the fate of humanity. captured. Some of them escaped into space They adapted to zero gravity by growing long so they could move around in space by farting Spacers changed to the point where they could they didn't care. They were comfortable little attention to their human relatives So across the galaxy, these twisted post-human diversified, rose and fell, and most of them they existed. Which is normal. Extinction each species that died out, new ones evolved kaleidoscopic variety life forms. And from species rose up to achieve new kinds of sentience dark fog. cooled down, and life emerged onto the surface. into serpentine grazers, swimmers, predators... The Snake People had unique spiral-shaped their world. They developed a 'hand' derived vast cities of tightly-intertwined tunnels played as vibrations in the ground. The Snake lives were full of joys and sorrows, hopes The Predators evolved into the Killer Folk. and their sabre teeth receded into organs built around hunting and violence, and so of years, nomadic warriors with vast herds across a chessboard of continents. So their with the ruins of fallen kingdoms. But one and rejected their violent past for a more factions kept to the old way, fanatically These two factions came dangerously close and survived. So they made a different kind of technology machines. The Tool Breeders domesticated and cities powered by organic life. Huge heart-like a network of self-healing conduits, like a made from living shell and bone, with bioluminescent cephalopod skin, medicinal sea-squirts, weapons With genetic modification, stem cells and their oceans, and even the small landmasses with just one planet. The Tool Breeders grew The Lizard Herders were stunted, and never and eventually built civilisations - using These lizards had no ancestral connection cultural identity, cause they influenced by They realised what the Qu had done to the they might suffer the same fate. fields of flesh, carpeting the shores of their And eventually, they organised themselves, colonies. Each cell specialised to perform colonies started competing against other. from afar, or starfish-life feet to move around, The winner of this evolutionary arms race People. In their vast industrial megalopolis, sizes. They could combine themselves or split cells playing a role in one great unified impossible - turning their miserable existence as part of the unified whole. species, as predators, herbivores, even swimmers. swamps to catch their prey. Their versatile fish, became articulate hands as they developed could fly, they had a global mindset. Borders to travel freely. People and ideas spread an egalitarian society without strict social fluting towers, harnessed nuclear power, and Though their civilisation thrived, their bodies brains and their power of flight, so the Pterosapiens aware of their mortality, they appreciated pondered the meaning of life with feverish The Ptersopaien in this picture poses at a the only holiday in her short life. the Lopsiders built an advanced civilisation. their world, and they developed spaceflight oppressive gravity. To adapt to life on new live in low gravity, called the Asymmetric freedom of new worlds, but they had no love ruthlessly exterminated the Lopsiders on their The Parasites and their hosts evolved symbiotic senses to warn their hosts of predators, or return, the hosts provided their nutritious on their bodies for the parasite to attach fur. The Parasites and Hosts became inextricably the hosts were like horses being steered around no more than puppets, totally controlled by signals. The intelligent Parasite civilisation the need for hosts. But they kept the hosts Symbiote might start the day in a business host at home after work. scattered isolated islands. Like the Galapagos a seething evolutionary cauldron that gave Fisher Fingers evolved into the Sail People. drove them effortlessly across oceans. They their tongues split and articulated to be memories to navigate the oceans and locate It took a long to develop social and political gave rise to a huge variety of creatures who of tribal warriors and pirate societies battled one group of Sail People became powerful enough had stained the oceans for too long. like it would never end. But over millions activity threw up clouds of dust that blocked Only a small subset survived, mutating an ancestors. These Satyriacs were got their civilisation. There were still traces of their and so their societies retained a delightful Festivals, concerts and ritualised orgies pleasure was savoured by sentient self-aware The Insectophagi started to look like their and became part of their jaw. Their hands brains evolved intelligence. Like many others, also faced a unique threat. They were attacked aliens, not much survived in the historical on the ground and in orbit before the invaders the Bug Facers a pathological xenophobic fear on other worlds started to reach out to each from the galaxy. void of space. Their fingers extended and atrophied, using their farts to move instead. brains expanded, til their every thought was humans could conceive. These Asteromorphs but they didn't interfere with the other planets - those ugly balls of dirt and ice of star systems, silently watching over the The advanced post-human species started making with the Satyriacs. The Tool Breeders reached and Pterosapiens joined in, followed by the Symbiotes, and Sail People. They didn't distances were too large. But they cooperated by keeping watch for alien invasions. They and the Qu - and they didn't want to be of post-humans lasted for almost eighty million and prospering together. The Bug Facers never And there was one other advanced species that the downfall of the alliance. twisted by the Qu. But on their world, the destroyed. So the Ruin Haunters had access and knowledge, which allowed them to advance so fast that their social and political structures themselves in a series of worldwide nuclear Haunters and kinda drove them crazy. They the true descendants and heirs of the Star the legacy of the golden age of their ancestors. alliance, the Ruin Haunters refused to participate. and threatened to burn and destroy their worlds. technology to abandon their organic bodies the Gravitals - floating metal spheres that gravity fields. They were entirely mechanical. quantum computers. So they still had human with neurotic narcissistic hubris, the Gravitals the other human species were unable to stop world and block out their sun behind a vast to resist, they were finished off with an species. They just didn't see them as people, a fly. So all the Snake People, the Tool Breeders, so hard to survive, were all snuffed out one The only survivors of these genocides were unknown, they alone were kept alive, and the experimentation. The Gravitals twisted them work of the Qu look tame. As well as servants, art pieces, like creatures that existed only on its modified throat and fingers. They made human flesh purely for entertainment and curiosity. life the way someone might tinker with computer of years that was how organic life existed saw life the same way. Some religious and that all forms of life had rights. They secretly freely. Some Gravitals even fell in love with divided between the Tolerant Gravitals who pan-mechanical Gravitals. This division threatened looked for a common enemy to unify against. Asteromorphs had watched each other nervously Asteromorphs in space. They both were massively them both. But in attempt to unite their divided with Asteromorphs. The resulting conflict stars, but in the end, the Asteromorphs triumphed, Machine Empire. the mess the machines had made. They took twisted, and created habitable worlds for seeding life across the galaxy. And the human worlds - under the watchful eye of the Asteromorphs. genocidal assholes would ever conquer the version of themselves called the Terrestrials, played the role of kings, prophets, and caretakers, didn't always work out too well. Sometimes them. Sometimes the Terrestrials were corrupt, But one way or another, the human worlds spread, The Gravitals weren't completely destroyed useful to have super-advanced machines around. and numbed their minds a bit to discourage to work in dangerous environments. These New that could transform into any shape. They but were often discriminated against - machines atrocities. contact with life from other galaxies - including had snakes inside their snakes. Apparently just as long and complex as humanity had. forms of both galaxies were finally old enough conflict. history. The stories are endless - how the the Qu, how they cradled their suns in artificial But one moment worth relating is the rediscovery of humanity - where all the Asteromorphs origins. Earth had gone stagnant and feral half a billion years of absence, humans returned I have to end with a confession. Humans, Asteromorphs, extinct. They've been dead for a billion of their history, based on the available archaeological humans. Maybe some unimaginably destructive world suffered their own slow private death. higher plane of existence. We don't know matter. The story of humanity was never about of galaxies, or its transcendence from reality. of people, from the love-songs of the carefree sharing a meal, to the pontifications of the ideals are what led to humanity's worst reclaim the past, the Qu conquered for some abstract ultimate goal so often leads to destruction. human species, remember that it's the present you do today shapes tomorrow, not the other All Tomorrows is a story written and illustrated retelling of his tale, with some additional researcher who does heaps of fascinating work all sorts of stuff, so go check out his website, him on Patreon. Also, since this video will.. Alt Shift X on Patreon too. We got more Song 1 of the Alt Shift X podcast is out now, with so go check it out. Sonjerbolan, Wyld Words, Alexandra Lamoureux, Colt Foster, Irish Steph, and sams2006. Cheers.