There is a story that when Yes, that Ferrari, first saw Geneva Auto Show in 1961, he car in the world. When Frank Sinatra saw it, he want that car, and I want it Jaguar is one of the most exist in the car world. This is what Jaguar once was, desired and admired cars on Today, however, the story has The brand was diluted, the and the vehicles certainly all. In the past few years. It's been somewhat sad to increasingly over the last As of November 2024, the shut down production and more than a year. This is a automotive industry. They're going to kind of world effectively. But Jaguar says this is not The once iconic brand is What we want to do is to say, habitat by making really resonate at an clients. They believe this vehicle is brand for the future. But this production shutdown risky moves. There aren't going to be This is going to be a hard down this route. In May 2024, Jaguar halted it makes in its own F-PACE, a mid-sized SUV. Jaguar contracts the vehicles, the compact E-PACE manufacturer, Magna Steyr. Production on those vehicles It stopped selling cars in except for those currently in The move comes in the wake of In 2017, JLR, Jaguar's record, though that was of Land Rover, Jaguar sales increase over the previous They hit an all time high in strong sales of the I-PACE Then things started to slip. By 2023, Jaguar was selling been in 2017. And really, the volumes then In 2019, the company overall huge loss of over 3 billion that was a huge asset write Jaguar vehicles, and Jaguar that period. Today, JLR, which has Land Rover, is doing quite Once again, that's really muscular SUVs, Range Rovers, It pulled in profits of over year, and in the first half 25% increase over the same Just five years earlier, JLR about 450 million. Profits are back to the Jaguar has released one EV. The I-PACE came out in 2018. It was the first legacy fully electric vehicle. The I-PACE was a critical Among other honors, it swept Auto Show. But despite an large fleet purchases from Waymo, sales of the I-PACE The company canceled plans to electric version of its XJ called the J-Pace. But it canceled both in 2021. When JLR first announced its included the plan to turn volume EV maker. As of 2024, the I-PACE is It never received any major one of the vehicles Jaguar Industry analysts and former both its EVs and the larger its identity, chasing to the times. The production until at least 2025, is meant return to its original quintessentially British drive like nothing else. You've got to be different. You've got to be distinctive do. Jaguar originated with the 1922, but the first true As with many brands, Jaguar early success, founder Sir Sir William Lyons had this space. He had another JLR are using a lot now, is And that's really important, copying no one. These principles produced some Then came the E-Type, the car over in 1961. There was nothing else on the to have the courage, and the this is what we think a That's the essence of Jaguar. I think Jaguar's kind of a its history was its dynamics and styling. In these early years. Jaguar excelled in racing, Le Mans race, seven times, in the 1950s. Here's Hamilton in the That put it just behind Porsche, Audi and In 1948, it had the fastest But as the Lyons' years drew started to stumble, like many changed hands several times. Jaguar is another British brands, Aston Martin-the two ways, and that includes this viability, to have this brand powerful and desirable and that is profitable. In the late 1960s, the British became British Leyland, Sir William Lyons was getting to retirement. I think that's when some of Jaguar. With that, Sir guidance, and instructions on and particularly on design No doubt there will be many like Jaguar. In 1989, Ford Motor Company housed it in a division With a number of high end several year period, and Land Rover. Ford did a lot of really good They improved the put a lot of money into the brought some guys over to the Ford umbrella. The idea, share parts across the profits that come with But, the deal didn't quite And that got a lot of media for Jaguars coming off But the vehicles were very cars. If you look at those vehicles S-Type, you know, maybe felt actual Jaguars. When you are selling on It is hard to deliver a know, it feels very everyday. They didn't seem to really hoped they might, with that that Ford was going to They also made choices that image, specifically turning producer. Jaguar was never really a high It was a producer of very high performance, sports No wonder Jaguar is an dwindling list of luxury Jaguar was a very fashionable that up over decades and go the route of trying to And that's what every car because at the end of the but if you're not selling isn't good, and that's really They never made any money the brand at all. It weakened And so we get to a point, years. This higher volume strategy current owner, Tata Motors, a conglomerate, which purchased in 2008. Since that acquisition, the diverged. If I look at its more recent strategy of volume over It's tried to play in that really dominated by economics. And we've had competent, critically unique enough to really tough segment. Starting in 2016, the company keep up with larger market At first it worked. There was a midsize F-PACE So those two SUVs, they were particularly the F-PACE, a well. But the brand suffered during engulfed so many other Jaguar tried, they tried to of Land Rover vehicles, share brands. All the things you that circumstance. But, I if you're an SUV shopper and get a Jaguar, I could get a Well, which one do you want It also couldn't achieve the sporty luxury car makers such managed. Porsche successfully SUV brand, and I think they lose their performance cars. Jaguar didn't successfully SUVs and kind of, with the walked away from their history. I think that hurt Then there are the I-PACE, the canceled electric I think the Jaguar I-PACE is when you cannot commit to a then follow through on that the model. There just hasn't I-PACE. So, the plan now, stop chasing What we need to do now, as I actually when we were that were genuinely elite, on the road. When Jaguar does return, it EVs that are expected to $125,000, a price band just currently start. It expects to invest about through 2028. The first of three new fully launch in 2026, will be a larger car that combines Jaguar says it will be able single charge. Tennant says 600 horsepower and all-wheel A concept car, the GT will be Miami Art Week on December We have a track record, I cars that are very, very reality, and I'm really of '25, when we unveil the they're not going to be In late November, Jaguar emblems, and branding The campaign did receive some I'm not sure I know what's The stock went down. The Elon Musk we should mention, posting, &quot;do you sell cars?&quot; The eyes of the world are upon which is exactly what we our vehicle. So in that attention. And I think for now actually talk about the So this Jaguar has got to have it. And remember Sir William of nothing. Jaguar does have some of the happen. It still has such great brand recognition and identity, even period where it feels very People still, I think, have the brand and they think that Being a segment of Tata from the engineering Consulting Services, which Jaguar electric architecture on, but there are some I think most people will say cost a lot to repair. They've had reliability We have seen significant issues. We've seen that warranty spend. But in terms at these elevated price stake. And that's absolutely We are absolutely embracing It's profitable without Jaguar they're not trying to bet the They're probably betting car, which is a different That JLR is thriving without to launch what many say is a Among the challenges, one, becoming increasingly Bentley is moving into EVs, are too. Even Cadillac with I don't know how big the super market is, but it better be of automakers who have going to make their fortune. And the big theme in EVs, and several years has been There's more vehicles than price range, and you look at you know, GMC Hummer, all of vehicles, it seems like it's market. We think there's definitely a that it's at the top end of probably slightly under the in the market. We think validated by all the research the vehicles that are coming can absolutely command the price point. Brauer has another reason for I'm not really a fan of I think they have their sense. But the idea that like experience, which is all passion. Whether it's the dynamics, in an electric car, antithesis of that, there is assisted steering. Obviously steering. All the things that are kind of neutralized in an It is a jaw dropping design, at the specifications for definitely going in the right It will actually be our most Importantly, it will very, very best Jaguar should It should be incredible What they're doing is very said, okay, right, we're Rover. Let's push on with the Rover, Defender, Discovery. Let's not bother with Jaguar off Jaguar. They've decided