- Neutron stars are physical objects in the known universe; dead stars squeezed on the brink of collapsing But there's a growing who believe that an could be out there: quark stars. But do these objects truly exist? What evidence do we have for them? And if they are real, could for the most dangerous self-replicating strange matter? To understand the quark star, we first have to understand When a star heavier than reaches the end of its life, the outward pressure from and so gravity tries to compress the star down into a single point. The core becomes so compressed that it reaches a critical density where it's able to causing the outer layers in a dramatic supernova event, specifically here a type known With the outer layers gone, the and it's called a stellar remnant. If that remnant exceeds then it will collapse all the But for remnants lighter than this, they instead will become neutron stars. A neutron star is able to avoid collapsing all the way down to a black hole because there's enough internal strength to resist the power of gravity. But that begs the question: what is the source of this internal force? When the sun dies, it into a different kind of an Earth-sized star with electron degeneracy pressure. This is a quantum effect where electrons, which are a type of thermion, really detest being squeezed together into the same quantum state, an effect called the And it is that resistance to squeezing that will one day halt the Inside a neutron star, the what electron degeneracy Electrons have long lost the batter with gravitational pressure here, but neutrons are stubbornly As another type of thermion, they, too, have a degenerative pressure, a quantum resistive strength that, in fact, is much stronger. Indeed, the pressure here is so high that protons capture electrons and transform into more neutrons, forming an exotic state of hence the name neutron star. Described in this way, it's as almost a monolithic, asteroid-sized atomic nucleus in space but one with a comparable In principle, you could even just way, way down. But really neutron stars are a lot more complicated than that, and frankly, there is still However, since the pressure as we go out to the surface, then we don't expect the outer layers to be in the same extreme Indeed, we expect a series of layers, including various phase a crust, and even an atmosphere. The surface gravity is so extreme that this atmosphere would extend belly- and arms-length out, and the crust would be a held in place by their mutual and, of course, the extreme gravity. Deeper down, we get an ever greater ratio of neutrons to protons with eventually the spin-1/2 into so-called Cooper pairs, forming a frictionless superfluid as well as superconducting currents. Neutronium cylinders and sheets are thought to form down here, playfully known as neutron which no amount of bolognese sauce will ever make appetizing. It's a mind-bending environment that, of course, is beneath the surface, and so we can only hypothesize using our understanding But we have plenty of evidence for the reality of both There can be no question The superconducting currents generate intense magnetic fields which accelerate particles If the neutron star's spin then these beams of radiation will sweep over the Earth periodically, and we call such neutron stars pulsars. We know of so many pulsars that we use them to map the galaxy and even test general relativity. Likewise, there's plenty of including direct photos of But the real question is, could there be something in between? If we kept spooning mass the gravity and internal until eventually the neutronium would be unable to This is a limit known as the TOV limit. But is the next stage truly a black hole, or could there be another and saves it from such a fate? Since neutron stars are two down, one up, an obvious thought is that can manifest such a degeneracy pressure since they, too, are fermions. In the same way that were forced to gather into here we'd smush together the neutrons into a kind of quark soup Not a pleasant place to be. This is obviously pretty exotic. We normally think of quarks as only existing in pairs or triples, known as mesons and baryons respectively, although it has to be said that humans have temporarily forced quarks like the tetra- and pentaquarks at CERN. A property of quarks that is that they hate to be alone, a state known as deconfinement. Take a pair of quarks and try to pull them apart, and they'll desperately using the aptly named strong force. Pull hard enough, though, to create two new quark buddies. Hence, deconfinement is really hard. Back when the universe was less than a millionth of a second old, the temperature would've hot enough that quarks and were forced to remain in known as the so-called quark epoch. We've even recreated such But inside a neutron star, because of the extreme temperature but rather because of the extreme pressure smushing them together into These are very different states, in fact. So if you've seen videos will help us understand the quark epoch, this misrepresents the situation somewhat. But in this picture, we wouldn't expect the entire in the same way that a neutron star is not comprised of pure neutronium. Remember, there are distinct phases due to the different pressure gradients. So, really, only in the core would we expect to find the to create this quark matter state, whereas on the surface, it would really resemble Indeed, that's normally what although some prefer the term hybrid star to be a little bit more specific. In any case, it is a quark core shielded from astronomers' peering eyes behind the veil of a So quark cores enjoy a kind of privacy preventing us from which seems like the perfect segue to thank the sponsor of today's video. That is Nord VPN, who can offer you a for when you are online. As many of you know, I've been working with but the truth is that I way before that. Their VPN service is and incredibly easy to use on any device. Personally, I use the iPhone app, which is particularly slick and simple. All you have to do is just and your internet traffic is So the way this works is that VPNs redirect your internet traffic rather than your regular and thus it acts as an intermediary masking your IP address. To me, this is a no-brainer, especially when using public wi-fis. They even allow you to stream behind IP blockers, including HD content. Sign up today and get a special discount plus four, yes, four when using my link at That's nordvpn.com/CoolWorlds. Or you can just click the link down below in the description. Plus it is risk-free with North's 30-day, money-back guarantee. So please do check them out, and thank you to Nord VPN Now, back to the video. So if quark stars are shielded is the any hope of actually A major difference would would be denser and than that possible for which, recall, is given by the TOV limit. For a cold neutron star, this mass limit is estimated to be between So a neutron star in excess would be fairly conclusive evidence for our first quark star. But no such object has been discovered. Yes, there are examples with reported masses but none of them definitively But mass alone isn't the There are other tricks for potentially discovering quark stars. In 2002, Jeremy Drake and colleagues suggested that a pulsar called RX J1856 was simply too small to possessing a quark star-like radius of four to eight kilometers. Unfortunately, later analyses revealed the object was cooler and, for a given brightness, that means that the size must be bigger, resolving RX J1856 to have a more mundane and neutron star-like not four to eight. Another proposed strategy has been to look at the temperature versus age of neutron stars, since quark stars are hypothesized to cool much faster thanks to neutrinos, the pulsar 3C 58 has been suggested as a possible quark star on this basis, having seemingly cooled too quickly. However, aging neutron stars and a slew of different have yielded ages differing A third strategy is to spinning too fast. Since quark stars are more compact, like an ice skater tucking and they can reach sub-millisecond something thought impossible In 2007 Kaaret and colleagues claimed that X-rays from the indicated oscillations with at 1.1 kilohertz. But sadly, and once again, independent reanalyses of the same data did not support this result. Time after time, we seem to come across what looks like the first to have it unceremoniously But maybe we are looking Maybe quark stars are not but instead they are a common state in the interiors of neutron stars, simply the product of a from neutronium to something more exotic. They're not surprising; Consider that the density of is about 0.16 nucleons But the density of the is even higher than this, so why should we expect that operate between nucleons to ever do a good job at It's unclear exactly how but perhaps a working definition is matter which cannot be well described as a collection of hadrons, which includes protons and neutrons, but instead requires The behavior of matter under by considering the a mathematical description to different temperatures and pressures. Eemeli Annala and colleagues but quickly ran into the problem that the kind of energy densities expected inside neutron star cores to even numerically calculate due to a problem in lattice theory known as the sign problem. However, one can calculate for low-energy densities where matter behaves as well as the very extreme where they act essentially Annala and (indistinct) between these two extremes in as many ways as they can imagine but are still physically plausible. This leaves a large on the table here, but many of them cannot heavier than two solar masses, because we've observed them out there. Similarly, another set which are so stiff that they can't squish in the way that we observed in gravitational wave observations. Culling these excluded models, the authors end up with what they claim are the allowed range of physical models for neutron star interiors. Finally, they remove any cases where the sound speed inside this material exceeds one over root which is known as the conformal limit stemming from field theory. So here's the the punchline: the surviving lines imply that quark stars must be out there. Yes, 1.4 solar mass neutron stars can get away without a quark matter core, but for the two solar mass objects which we know must exist, their results indicate a large quark core just over half the diameter So a combination of suggests that quark stars A remarkable consequence of this is that there should be who are teetering on the but because of their fast spins, they produce a centrifugal and thus prevents this internal pressure from reaching the critical point. Eventually, though, the losing that support and triggering the Such an event could even an explosion that would Now, at this point, we another little scientific but the mere existence of quark stars opens the door to a very strange stars. This, again, is a topic which has been heavily over-dramaticized on YouTube and beyond. But together, let's take In the 1960s, Murray independently proposed the quark model to explain the zoo of hadrons being discovered in particle accelerators, which gained growing evidence So we now understand that are comprised of quarks. Specifically for the neutron star, there's two down quarks and one up. Most hadrons decay very rapidly of order of 10th minus 23 seconds or so, but some take much longer. The Lambda hyperon, for example, takes of order of 10 to the -10 seconds. Now, when this was first the physicists involved that they introduced the formal into the particle physics lexicon. It turns out that this stability of what we now refer to So, Lambda hyperon has one up, one down, and one strange quark, which balances out to an just like the neutron. Now, lambda hyper... for 10 to the -10 seconds, but it's hardly stable that we normally deal with as humans, nor indeed the kind of However, in another example of two independent papers, predicted that a uniform mixture of up, down and strange quarks should become increasingly In fact, get enough of them together, and this would become the most Broadly speaking, this there are two down quarks, thermions which cannot because of the Pauli exclusion principle. As a result, one of them has But with strange matter, the three quarks have and thus they can all relax Now, it turns out that the energetic cost of converting a single down is simply too much for this to be worth it for the Lambda hyperon, and However, for a large assemblage, the ensemble would indeed even after accounting to these strange quarks. The more of it you have, It is, in essence self-stabilizing. Now, the heart of a quark star seems to be the ideal environment to manufacture strange matter, thanks to the intense pressures. Crucially though, if a was somehow ejected back into the low-pressure it wouldn't decay like the Lambda hyperon, but instead, it'll be The idea is called the and if true, it means including me, you, is not truly stable. We are all meta stable to strangeness. By the way, we've even onto a few T-shirts that you can find down at a merch store. If so, all hydronic will eventually decay into strange matter. However, given that you to do this all at once, it's incredibly unlikely a bit like the probability of all the air particles in the room suddenly rushing to the corner at once. The phenomenology of strange matter was explored in a seminal paper by Edward Farhi and Robert Jaffe, and this paper is, frankly, for some of the predictions Thanks to its self stabilizing property, they predict that strange once it crosses some of ordered of a few hundred quarks, nuggets that they call strangelets. This stuff would be so dense that if you placed any macroscopic volume on Earth's surface, it would immediately tunnel If it is indeed stable in bulk like this, then it should have that, upon contact with ordinary nucleons, it would absorb them and transform into more strange matter, yet more, doing so in If true, strange matter would going around converting into more versions of itself. Now, strange matter is but it can obtain a small near the surface. Farhi and Jaffe find that, then in a low-energy environment, electrical repulsion should prevent it from ever making contact which, of course, also This is really the same physics as to why, when you the atomic nuclei in your arm do not come into physical contact with the atomic nuclei in the desk; the electric fields around each of them are too strong to allow that. However, one exception to this is that neutrons have no charge, so any kind of neutron-rich environment, such as the heart of a neutron star or even a nuclear reactor, would feed the strange Indeed, the authors hint that this could fuel a rather impressive a strange matter engine. Negatively charged strangelets would be a far more dangerous proposition. Ordinary matter would be attracted to it and then quickly absorbed, I have never seen a quote quite like this in a paper before, so I'm just &quot;Clearly, negatively would have disastrous consequences for any ordinary matter it touches. It probably could not be or in ordinary stellar environments.&quot; So should we be worried here? Well, clearly the hypothesis sounds pretty terrifying on paper, but crucially, it doesn't of the universe at large. Consider that, if true, Caldwell and Friedman estimated that essentially all neutron stars would've been converted into strange stars via this process by now. This is because we know merge, and explode in various that would eject infectious Indeed, gold on Earth, for example, is thought to have formed from the merger of binary neutron stars. Whatever the electrical neutrons just don't neutron stars should be rapidly converted into strange matter. But these strange stars and have much thinner crust than their neutron star counterparts. So together, we'd expect denser objects, and this very thin crust would not allow for an that we see in pulsars. These are small but very sudden jumps in the rotation frequency In addition, X-ray bursts and seismic vibrations of neutron stars also appear to indicate not one strange matter. Yet more subsequent theoretical works suggest that even, if they'd most likely have a from consuming ordinary Again, think why your arm So, whilst the case for within neutron stars looks reasonable, I think the case for universe-consuming infectious strangelets looks less likely. I know, I know, I'm on YouTube, and I'm supposed to for clicks and views, if the universe were really of some kind of cataclysmic then really, we shouldn't Nevertheless, these explorations remind us just how remarkable the cosmos is, the staggering diversity that are out there, and the rather surprising fact are capable of making sense of any of it. If the universe has taught us anything, it's that we will never run out of new, amazing things and that nature's imagination So until next time, stay (soft ethereal music)