For the past 9 minutes the Space Shuttle has Propelled forward by 2 massive solid rocket into the flight, they are now falling back reused. The final push comes from the orbiter's 3 liquid hydrogen from the colossal orange external Having drained the 700 tonnes of fuel and to shut down the powerful main engines and The astronauts inside the orbiter will find thundering journey to a serene silent cruise, power down. The light of the shining blue earth below cabin. The journey to orbit has ended, but their The space shuttle was not just a rocket, it and it came with all the tools the astronauts complicated tasks in space. A sanctuary amidst the unforgiving expanse sustaining a breathable atmosphere, facilitating carrying massive spacecraft like the Hubble to repair them when needed. This is the insane engineering of the Space The astronauts' jobs begin the moment they The orbiter has released the external tank the atmosphere where it will disintegrate. This is the last view anyone will have of that photos were taken of it to check for To do this the commander of the orbiter needs maneuvering system. Scattered all over the orbiter are smaller system. This removable module in the nose of the aircraft [Footage]Inside there are two spherical tanks, and a fuel tank filled with monomethyl hydrazine. This fuel oxidiser combination is unique. It doesn't need an ignition source. It's hypergolic. Meaning they spontaneously ignite upon contact But, both substances were extremely toxic. Producing ominous orange clouds of toxic gas. Breathing this in would cause your lungs to bloodstream it interferes with the blood's Anyone working with the propellants had to any chance of contact. The astronauts also had exclusion zones around danger of the chemicals coming back aboard. It's an undesirable fuel to work with in was used. These hypergolic fuels were extremely reliable, any need for complicated ignition systems [REF] They could be stored for longer periods continually vented as temperatures rose, which missions like the space shuttle, with the this was critical. [FOOTAGE] The propellants could also be quickly mixed instantaneous thrust control. This was important when maneuvering in close The propellants are fed into the combustion with high pressure helium. Held in spherical kevlar composite tanks with tank, just 10 kilograms in weight, but nearly Spherical tanks are the most weight efficient volume to weight ratio. Ideally all rockets could use spherical tanks, as volume requirements rise and it's preferable rocket to reduce drag. There is no turbopump needed here; the back enough flow rate for the purposes of these In the forward reaction control system pod 12 in each of the left and right rear pods For a total of 38 main thrusters, each capable specific impulse of 289 seconds. Sometimes even finer control was needed for and for this the orbiter had 6 smaller vernier 111 newtons. The same amount of force you would need to With a total of 44 reaction control thrusters needed a way to control them. The controls were located at the commander's on the left side of the aft flight deck. The rear position was added to allow the commander for rendezvous with other spacecraft or releasing Each station had a square-knobbed controller side to side and up and down. And a more traditional flight stick, which and yaw. [[REF] There was also a flight computer where desired with a keypad. Of course this was all fly by wire the commanders interpreted the commands and decided the best There was only one notable exception to this ] I mean, there is nothing mechanically linked Everything goes through the computer, everything computer generates everything. We are concerned about things called single this before, where a cosmic ray comes in and anything. But because there was no way to raise the upset if there was an automatic computer way wheels lowered on orbit and not be able to So we always made that mechanical. And so once we got down to under 300 feet, to lower the wheels manually. Putting them back in place required ground So, because ionizing radiation in space could the landing gear, and with no way of raising The landing gears were held in place by a after the pilot flipped the protective covers button labeled "dn" for down. When this happened a hydraulic actuator released and allowed them to lower. The first day of the mission is now starting. [REF] The astronauts begin their tasks. The pilot and commander seated in the left panel are busy working towards the first rendezvous Through the forward windows the astronauts that they are maneuvering towards. These weren't the only windows on board, with rear windows looking into the payload These windows were key to the reusability The windows had to be durable enough to survive the temperatures of re-entry The Space Shuttle's window structure had multiple different conditions. The pressure pane was engineered to endure 15.7 millimeters thick aluminosilicate glass On the outer edge of this pane, a red film vehicle to not be lost to space, while still The outermost pane, or the thermal pane, was resisting temperatures up to 482 degrees celsius. There was also a large space between these the outer shell and the inner crew cabin. On one discovery mission one of these windows crater in the window, but it did not break. [Footage] If it had, the astronauts inside were in no serving as a failsafe for both the thermal It was 33 millimeters thick and made out of laboratory crucibles and beakers are made The rear windows looking into the payload they would not be exposed to the extreme super There were no windows in the middeck, below The middeck is where many of the science experiments the astronauts slept and ate. There were stations where the astronauts could environment, but not everyone chose to use The commander and pilot generally slept up strap themselves in their commander in pilot want to be kind of strapped in. There were some astronauts like story Musgrave but he would bump into people, and I heard But the rest of us, you'd have a cloth sleeping like this where you velcro it to a bulkhead in it. The time has now come to open the payload The doors needed to open shortly after reaching support systems required them to be open. The temperature control system. Two radiator panels are attached to each of Freon filled tubes snake around these panels. Where they radiate heat absorbed from a heat space. The payload doors themselves are made from reduced the weight of the doors by 408 kilograms At the time this was the largest aerospace [Page 173] Covering the payload bay which was 18.3 meters The largest and heaviest payload it ever carried coming in at 22.7 tonnes. Maxing out the shuttle's capacity. This mission came worryingly close to disaster. During each refurbishment of the shuttles [REF] to find signs of damage. In some cases damage may be detected in one liquid oxygen to the combustion chamber, and and difficult to manufacture injection assembly, pin that plugged the channel. During the pre-launch start up sequence of one of these gold pins was ejected out and nozzle, resulting in a hydrogen leak that launch. The engine detected a decrease in combustion valve to increase thrust, the engine had no It could only detect the drop in combustion combustion less fuel rich, which increases This incident resulted in a maintenance policy to be replaced and not simply plugged. Thankfully the engine survived and the mission engines shutting down prematurely as a result of the oxygen depletion sensors So the orbiter was 4.6 m/s off it's target Thankfully the Orbiter has an orbital maneuvering velocity These large rocket nozzles were not part of of providing 305 meters per second of additional Powered by the same hypergolic fuel and oxidiser the OMS pods, capable of holding 4 tonnes When performing large orbital changes like to know precisely where it was, and to do this it could open these doors on the star tracker optics. These star trackers analyzed positions of where the orbiter was, allowing it to precisely Once the space shuttle has arrived at its On Bruce's mission, STS 49, the first task satellite. Carefully maneuvering the orbiter closer to attempted to stabilize its spin. As they approached 2 astronauts. Pierre Thout and Richard Hieb donned their the airlock. The airlock for this mission was located inside be configured to be outside in the payload During the construction of the international also installed, which was required to allow and American spacecraft. It was called the androgynous peripheral attach The androgynous name comes from the fact that identical, with no male or female parts, with system allowing any two spacecraft to dock As Goddard intended. Each side had a ring with three petals equally One side extended its mating ring for a soft together and connect with these latches. [REF] At this point, the soft capture ring is retracted connection between the two spacecraft. This system was used extensively during the which the space shuttle had an instrumental Including the very first modules to be connected with the Russian Zarya module using this docking On STS-49, Bruce's mission, the stranded with and had no docking points, and thus to needed to perform an EVA and manually grab designed for this mission, but not everything So we made several attempts to grab this satellite touched the bottom of the satellite with the Fortunately, the engineers that owned Intel restabilize it so we could maneuver back closer So we tried three or four times the first Second day we tried again every time it bounced So at that point we were kind of at a loss. We didn't know what we were going to do. And of course, all this time, I'm operating I'm chasing the satellite with Pierre on the And so it was a very demanding part of the So two days of trying the ground said, okay, then we're go back out and try on the fourth Well, of course we felt like the mission was So the ground told us, go ahead, get a good So we got to thinking, and matter of fact, were talking up on the flight deck when we So I floated up to the flight deck with them so maneuverable and was so efficient on its enough to the satellite to where Rick and hands. And we saw it at one point when Pierre got fired, and it almost immediately stopped the So we knew that it was going to be easy to just grab the bottom of the satellite. The problem was is now what do you do if you You've got two guys out there holding a 9,000 on the rocket motor that we took up to strap Well, I scratched my head while I was up there this satellite business, two other astronauts, to go out and do some practice of assembly We hadn't built the space station at that to do some methods for that. Well, in order to accommodate all the different suits, they're made out of different components, those sorts of things. And Rick Hebe is this big, Kathy Thornton about my size. So in order to accommodate four astronauts sizes, we for the first time ever had three EVA suits on board. So I got to thinking, I said, well, we have Why don't we send three space walkers out? We can have two people grab it and then one capture bar had to be attached to the satellite it to the rocket motor that we brought up. However, this plan had one problem. The airlock was only designed for two people. The airlock consisted of two air tight doors. Once inside, with the doors sealed, the astronauts air to space. This could only be done from inside the hatch, and inside. For obvious safety reasons. This process took about 30 minutes and while to life support umbilicals so they didn't the wait. This was the first problem. There were only 2 life support umbilicals It was also going to be a tight squeeze for the cylindrical airlock inside the mid-deck centimeters high. The third astronaut was going to need to make So unlike normally where you just have two close the door with Tom, he had to go on all of his internal controls So now you've got Rick and Pierre right side and he's on his internal systems now where umbilicals inside, close the airlock evacuate And here, the three astronauts got to work. With Bruce on the remote manipulator arm controls a very specific reason. He was a coast guard helicopter pilot. And the reason Dan wanted to have a Coast reason for that is, is that operating the similar to operating a helicopter because hands and both feet. Well, when you're operating the arm, you've hand controller and a translational hand controller. So the translational hand controller, you Rotational hand controller controls the attitude So it's very much flying a helicopter and in a very tight situation. You've got to be the arm. The canadarm, named after its country of origin, aboard the shuttle. A simple articulated arm may not seem overly environment and desire to minimize the launch interesting engineering challenge. The entire 15 meter long arm weighs just 430 30 tonnes in orbit, it couldn't even hold [REF] The booms were made from low weight epoxy 2 joints at its shoulder for yaw and pitch, for yaw, pitch and roll. For a total of 6 degrees of freedom of movement, However your elbow joint is only capable of get in the way. The Canadarms elbow joint rotational axis degrees of rotation. [REF] Because the arm is working in a weightless to apply that much torque. Each motor could produce 0.7 newton meters With no friction in space a small force can want it to take. In the same way an ion thruster with thrusts get a spacecraft up to lightspeed if it had However, the dangers of inertia are still If a satellite was moving quickly relative the arm. So slow delicate movement is the name of the assist each joint's brake system. The loaded arm speed had a maximum speed of The arm had a unique end fixture designed However, because the intelsat was never intended grapple points installed. So the capture bar had an attachment point point allowing the canadarm to grab hold of The grapple point is a simple metallic pin [REF] This is all the arm needed to firmly grab The end effector of the canadarm used a naturally onto this pin. Three wires, each anchored at two points. One point is stationary, while the secondary [REF] Once Bruce had maneuvered the arm over the ring would turn and ensnare the pin, pulling The pin is then pulled inwards until the three cut outs on the outside grabble ring. A simple, but effective mechanism. With the satellite now secure the three astronauts stage to the capture bar, which they did successfully, orbit where it operated for 21 years. STS 49 had another mission to complete. A test run of space shuttle building techniques, That mission lost a day. Life support systems onboard were supplied of the mission. Spherical tanks in the mid fuselage contained With 3 nitrogen tanks and 1 oxygen. Used to create a breathable atmosphere of Of course carbon dioxide needed to be scrubbed done by passing the cabin air through lithium middeck. These solid canisters would react with the water in the process. This was not a renewable solution so every these canisters through this hatch on the There were also oxygen and hydrogen tanks A fuel cell that reacted the hydrogen and These powered everything on board, and produced But this water carried some extra hydrogen had to go through a process of degassing, overboard. It was now time to prepare for re-entry and but on STS 49 another problem was encountered. The payload doors would not latch due to thermal problem solving. Well, there's always two astronauts trained on my first flight, and that's for a contingency. If for example, the payload bay doors wouldn't orbit, we have special tools where we could And matter of fact, on STS 49 after we had of a different switch configuration, we got close all the way. And so we thought, oh man, do we need to go So your first attempt to fix something like As you can imagine, you're 200 degrees on on the dark side. So a lot of times you'll get a little bit of the fuselage just because of the thermal And that's what we did. We went ahead into what we call the barbecue orbited the earth and the barbecue mode to when we couldn't get the payload bay doors And When you say barbecue mode, do you mean like It's rotating, Yes. Yeah, it's not that fast, but you do that going through the sun and through the dark. And I think it was just one or, but we had and they latched. With the doors successfully closed, the space the earth's atmosphere. Firing the OMS engines once more to slow the into earth's atmosphere. At the moment of reentry, the space shuttle Entering the thin upper atmosphere at 30 times A speed so great that it begins to rip air of charged plasma around the lower surface With peak temperatures reaching 1650 degree To not only withstand this immense heat, but on a runway required some incredible innovative Combining aerospace and aviation technologies A true space plane. Episode 3 of the insane engineering of the re-entry and landing will be uploaded in the the holidays with our friends and family. You are likely doing the same and perhaps the enthusiastic learners in your life, or and learn some valuable skills Brilliant can help you with both. Brilliant makes learning easy with fun, interactive that dopamine rush as they test your knowledge They have a fantastic mobile app so you can I just completed the course teaching how large With the prevalence of that technology ever valuable. Or perhaps you want to get ahead in university like how to use vectors to describe motions Brilliant has thousands of other lessons too. AI, data science, neural networks and even You can get access to that course right now, courses, by going to brilliant.org/RealEngineering You can get started for free for 30 days, 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription