- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, Welcome back to Starbase. This is part two of and part one we took We saw what's new. A lot's but in this one we're gonna and we're actually gonna see with Elon before its fourth flight test. Then we're gonna go talk to Elon after it flies, see what and what to expect on future launches. So part two, let's get started. *Elon whistling the 1812 Overture* Have you ever got a chance to see it from like the beach side? Sorry? Have you ever got a chance to see it from like the - Yeah, I love the heat shield side - Yeah, it's a damn tall rocket. - Yeah. - So, and it's gonna get taller. - It's just, can we get even closer? Yeah. I don't, uh, even when you're get the sense of scale. Yeah. It's just insane. - Geez, look at that. Hey, I gotta get a wrap That is so cool. I mean, the scale just doesn't make sense. There's nothing else out you know, if Yeah. If this is a huge tower next to a ginormous rocket with no buildings, no like, no anything. So it's, it's just so hard what I mean, I mean, those Yeah. And they're so far up - Yeah. It's a gigantic rocket. I mean, it's 5,000 tons at liftoff it's the largest flying - And you're trying to catch it. - Yeah. Catch it with mechazilla arms. I was actually slightly Yeah. You know, Mechazilla. - That's the reason for this. - Yeah, - The reason for, there's, there's, there's many Obviously you could do The problem with landing you've got the weight of the landing legs and you've gotta protect them on entry, especially for the ship. That's tricky. Yeah. And, and then you've gotta where it landed back onto Yeah. So I was trying to think the most efficient, most rapidly reusable architecture that lifts the rocket onto - What catches it. Yeah. So how, is there still plans, like how will the ship actually get caught? Just are there similar nubs - There aren't currently Yeah. Okay. Like deployable, like catch it on the - Just like, you just Or do you, is there - This is a matter of much debate, but again, there's like a Yeah. It, it kind of depends on what range of kind of landing velocity You know, is it because if it, if, if it, if it comes in at like if it comes in with, with a to have much stronger - Right. - Now the downside, to reserve propellant such that it is a very precise to achieve that precision. So that's also, so which - That's also mass. - Yes. Yeah. So do you want static mass or dynamic mass in the form of propellant? You know, there's some combination of the two is needed in get caught by the arms and, and not have the forward flaps sheared off - Right. Are, are the flaps of having a little bit of a redesign too? Like maybe moving a little bit? Yeah, yeah. Is that still So the, - There's actually, if you what, what the ship's trying to achieve, it's actually bugged me for a long time. The, for at least for the, the it's coming back with an empty cargo bay. So the ship naturally wants to 'cause that's the heavy part. It it's the center of So now the rear flaps counter the center of mass, the center of pressure. So you're really balancing pressure and, and mass it's like a, Yeah. Yeah. So Now forward flaps that are not fully stowed because forward flaps are, if, if, if you have got a of the forward flaps, that means area that is pushing the, and making it want to go engines first. Right. Right. So whereas helpful, you know, basically frontal area in the rear Yeah. Is helpful. Yep. Frontal area in the front is, it's counterproductive. So you, you really ideally want the flaps to be in the stowed position Mm. So they're not trying - But don't you, I guess to maximize braking necessarily. You're trying to achieve a certain glide ratio and things like - That too. We're, you've gotta control it supersonic transonic and subsonic. Yeah. And at least until you get to subsonic, the, the rocket really is the, the, the challenge is not having the engines go for not having the Yeah. Basically you want, you're of attack that's cool Yeah. Like, so it's if, if this is this, so if this is the earth, it's, it's, it's doing roughly this angle. Yeah. - And so the flap, the rear as much as possible to try to Yeah. Keep the engines from scooting - Forward. Yeah. So you, the rear flaps, if the rear flaps de de de deploy. Yeah. That, that's, that, how you know that, that Yep. It pushes the, When the rear flaps when the front flaps deploy, it actually pushes the ship back. Yeah. So what the front flaps they're really trim flaps. - Right. the, the pitch angle. - They're trying to maintain it almost. - Well they, they, you need to control the ship in your Yeah. So the, but the, the, the, the work essentially controlling the rear flaps and, and they're, they're of pressure such that the, the, the engines don't go, Yeah. Yeah. Like, so ships Rear flaps deploy it, put it, it, it makes it wanna tip forward. Yep. Which is good. Yeah. It counteracts the mass The, the, the, the flaps therefore trimming your role and your Yeah. Primarily. Yeah. - And they all and they all interact with each other too, which is - A hard part. Yeah, exactly. That's why it's like ish, technically the front flaps Right. But, but, but, but, but for, for, for setting your, your fundamental pitch Right. And you want your front when they're back to, to Yeah. So that your rear flaps - Right. Right. That makes sense. Yeah. So, but you also need So having those be able to dip out and do a few things to maintain, you've - Gotta control your role. So you really kind of need And we have four, so slightly But, and, and, and, and in the high heating regime, which is where this really matters, the, it's, it, the, the air is very stable. You don't have wind really. It's very, the air is So you, when, when, when the, if, if the ship is operating properly, it'll, it'll look like it's Huh. It's just the flaps And it's just maintaining this angle. - Yeah. 'cause it's not having having turbulences and all this - Stuff. It, there, there's no disturbances. Huh. - I never thought about that. Yeah. Until it gets into the - Yeah. - And then the whole you know, when you're going and is there, like do I, obviously the control little bit to a certain degree. - Sure. - And those, it changes a lot. - That, that's probably and like get some sense but at the end of the day, how it happens when it - Yeah. Once you get to subsonic, the ship is falling like a skydiver. - Yes. Like we've seen, - So Yeah. So you're, the flaps are kinda like arms and legs of a skydiver. Yeah. So it's, it's counterintuitive. It's not at all how our Airplanes don't fall. Yeah. - It's, it's like 90 degrees to what an airplane would do, basically. - Yeah. Yes. 90 degrees to It's, it's really analogous to a giant sky diver. Yeah. Yeah. - I mean exactly. 'cause that's - Pretty damn close. - Yeah. Maintains their orientation. Yeah. That is just the craziest thing when I, I gotta ask. So, you know, you have as the SpaceX being, you know, to do iterative design like this. If you could have done had a total blank slate and literally just minimum viable product, we're gonna throw that thing out. Would you have done that on Falcon 9? Because Falcon 9 people they look at this and they go, oh, they don't even Well, you guys know how to build a rocket and launch it for the first time. Falcon 9 Falcon Heavy. I mean, you've already - Well who's saying we doing and what have they done. - Oh, exactly. That's, to be an armchair rocket engineer. - Yeah, exactly. But they, you know, the, the test plat, the prototyping, the testing phase. So if you could have with Falcon 9 in the early that if you could have, or we, - We wouldn't, we wouldn't be able to make Starship without Right. So it's sort of like or something Right, right. When you get into like, time So I mean there's, this is with, I I like, we learned but there's nothing in common that s has in common with Falcon 9. Nothing. I mean, I, I I take it back. You've got grid fins in both cases, right? Yeah. For the, for the, - You know, there may be some common ish avionics or something. - Nope. All new avionics. - Yeah. Geez, that's - What all new avionics, - And tower two is starting It's looking like, and Over that way. Is that right? - Yeah. And Tower two will It'll be taller to allow for the next generation of, of Starship. Yep. So we're gonna add And, and then the redesigned arms will be shorter. So if you look at those arms very high moment of they're, they're very long. Right. So you want, you actually, it's hard to move them fast. Right. And 'cause you have And so it's just a lot of momentum. Yeah. - And a lot of dampening. - Yeah. So the, the new arms will be able to move much faster and they'll be a fair bit shorter than those arms - Basically right at the catch point. Right. Like there's pretty - Yeah. So they'll, they'll Maybe be like a couple meters beyond the catch point. - Well the, is there any and the, the, the booster bidet and all the, all the, the flame trench and stuff like that is - Yeah, that's, it's a I don't know if we should but the guys really wanna - Like it'll have like more Yeah. Yeah. This, this has expected though, I have to say. Yeah. On flight two when it took off and it was like, Hey look, it actually, it actually worked. Yeah. - It didn't, it's cool. It didn't blow up. - So, but the, like, the ring and stuff, is anything changing? Is it, is it almost like a - Pretty much Wow. - Yeah, this's - Just crazy things. The the hold down arms also change. Well it's not the really the launch arms. 'cause the current ones and grab the rocket, Yeah. So we have a new design for the launch launch arms that and then retract so that and potentially cause a, the - That'd be bad. Yeah. It's getting a lot more, a lot more legitimate and, you - To protect against the explosions. I've got basically bunker, A lot of steel protecting So, gosh, it's, it's, that wall is designed to against a full explosion of the rocket. Yeah. - So tower two, that's on its way, like, they're literally loading up barges and you have sections out at the, at the factory and everything. So Tower two is like already, how quickly it's all, and building that here all year probably. And wouldn't be surprised if that thing ends up being Can't even keep up with Wow. Tomorrow after this thing launches, would you want to do a quick little, like, rundown on how you feel about it? - It depends on how it went. through reentry, both of 'em. - Sure. - Okay. Well we better Now that'll be awesome. I, I mean, tomorrow's gonna be phenomenal, I feel. How, how are you feeling that you've had time to see it all and you know, looking at the data, I, - I think the odds are on our side, but there's still, you know, some chance that the rocket blows up on liftoff. It's not zero. Right. I mean, this is the best launch site and the best rocket we've we've ever made. Yeah. On Starship. So it has - And you can even tell like to detail and things on and the, the tiles and everything. It's, - It's much more finesse. - Yes. Yeah. It's, it's not It doesn't have like glonky bits - Yeah, exactly. Oh man, Can't wait for it. It's gonna be, I hope people will pay attention to this. 'cause it's, it's history - Yeah. - And the, the, the cylinders You know, we early versions of a Michelin man situation. - No one, especially like Mk1 like you were talking about earlier. Like Mk1 like a - Mk1 was, let's important. Yeah, - That is awesome. - Lighting was important. - You need like romantic - Well I really, really You know, T minus, oh god, so t minus 12 hours and hopefully we'll see this - Yeah, it's wild. Alright, Thank you so much Elon. - Thank you. The next morning that and Ship 29 did indeed launch for Star Ship's fourth full stack flight, our Everyday Astronaut / managed to get some but only for the first few We can't wait for the next launch. So we hopefully get some of the booster returning and hopefully a catch attempt as well. That will be crazy. And of course we'll be covering it live in 4K when it happens. But the good news is this of the program yet with both the booster and the Starship upper stage reentering and softly splashing down, because Elon kept his after this historic test. So just a few hours after with Elon to discuss what and what to expect in the next launch. But before we hear from him, I wanted to point out touring Starbase of accessing direct reliable and the aerospace industry without being overly sensationalized. And today's sponsor embodies Ground News is an app and website that gathers news articles globally and puts them in one place. So you can compare how different outlets cover the same story. Fun fact, it was founded by Kaur, who worked on the and New Horizons. Let's take a look at how that Starship launch was covered in the media. There were over 160 articles and we can see visually where the biases lean on with 26% leaning left, 62% in the center and 12% on the right. There's also the factuality chart and the ownership chart, of these articles were written These are all things that can Then we can scroll down and see every article about Flight four and compare the headlines. I think it's fun to see what words are used in each headline. Which ones mention Exploding I personally enjoy scrolling which helps me stay informed and gives me perspectives that I might have previously missed. Ground news has been important to me and helps me enhance my knowledge and critical thinking about Subscribe through my link at for 40% off the ground news, unlimited access vantage plan this month. That's the plan that I personally use and I highly recommend to stay well-informed and gain a deeper There's also a link in Okay, now let's hear from Elon about how he thinks the launch went. That was, come on. I mean, - Hey, go sick. That was amazing. - You saw it, you saw the whole thing? I, I did predict that would happen. Although be the question of Like we did do a lot. Oh my gosh. That was, - That was insane. - Yeah. Yeah. - Do you feel, with the, the results of - Yeah, it's awesome. This is a really, I'd say best - It is. I mean, did as you were watching through, or I mean not the What, I mean you had to have thought one of those was just gonna rip off, right? Yeah, - I mean the, the the heating, from the internal cameras. Yeah. You don't and you You can actually just see it glow. Right. So the thing about steel is It's gonna glow for a I think the, you know, one of the biggest lessons say of a high temp stainless steel ally. Right. 'cause it, it hung in there. Yeah. And so, you know, we, it's we you, you always to conclusions. Right. You, you know what, to conclusions mat from Right? Right. Yeah, exactly. So we have to be a little hesitant about reaching conclusions before 'cause sometimes your, your Right. But the, we, we obviously need to make the hinge We, we, we need to make the, the flap hinge area far more robust. So we we'll go to, we, we'll really go crazy hardcore on that. Yeah. That hopefully I don't eat my words, but that, that will not be the reason. Like if, if the, if the next back fully intact, that Hinge flap will not we're we're gonna just spend a bunch of mass. Right. Just make - It super robust over overdo it for now. - Yeah. Yeah. I mean there's you know, to increase, increase Decrease the gap, improve the gap filler, thicken the tiles. If, if any gap is, is not perfect, then, then you had to crack the tile, It's, it's kind of a pain So it it like, it's not like if we thought there was something about the, the, the, the hinge flap hinge area, we would've done it. Right. But like I said, we'll just go to town, thicker tiles, thinner gaps, better gap filler, maybe even tightening the tolerances. There's a whole bunch of things Yeah. For the next flight. I'd mentioned yesterday improved design of Starship Not immediately, but it's, that I've, I've actually the, the, you know, just to do this for, for, for a while, which is to move the forward flaps they're not at the kind of 180 degrees. They, they're, they're moved So it'll, it'll look a little bit asymmetric with the rear flaps. The rear flaps are, are degrees. So do, I mean - Are those, those aren't like ship 30? 'cause ship 30? - No, it's, it's a, it's Of the whole front section. Re redesign the mound points. Yeah. The, the reason I like, like it's not like the team disagreed with me with the about this. They did agree, but they were like, is that really the priority? Right. So because you've gotta redesign you know, the actuator mounts It's a huge redesign of And there'll be a number of other sort of improvements we do, you and the whole front section. And it's kind of like front section version two, Yeah. So more reliable, and easy also easier to manufacture. Yeah. Which is a big deal. - Do you know, did the aft flaps and the, forward like, did all of 'em kind of have similar burn through, do you - Know or No, it, it, no, the, the, the, the right forward flap was you know 'cause there's tolerance variations. There's a little bit of just Right. Yeah. You know, you of Russian roulette Yeah. Which was the unlucky tile. But it, it, it looks like I'm just guessing here, it's speculative that we had probably the gaps on the, the, the tiles were a little wider on the right side than the left side. 'cause it was really the, by far had the biggest issues. Okay. And we can see this when the vehicle is how much deployment does each, Right. So the, the other or less normal deployment, but to really go all out and stick. Its like skeleton hand, to have an effect. It - Reminded me of like Five and part two. I don't remember if we remember Johnny Five was alive. Like is this, - That's a long time ago. A - Long eighties movie. Yeah. Yeah. And he gets like all beaten up and he is like just this like and he's like still fighting along. And it just reminded me that of a, of a flap, I couldn't believe how little it was needing to - Oh, was moving a lot at the end. Was it? Oh yeah, yeah. It was, it was going to especially subsonic. So, but it performed admirably for it. It was sort of in insane, you know, level of destruction. Yeah. And - I can't believe it of it looked like it, you know, like you'd think the actual, I - Me, me neither. I'm like, holy shit is But the actuator was the link act, act, you know, the actuator linkages The hinges were, were still working. It's like, damn, okay, So I - Couldn't believe that. - Yeah. Yeah. Totally. So to maintain a stability subs but because of the ragged to steer itself to the So it was about six kilometers But it did manage to maintain stability to all the way to the ground. - Does this make you like, I mean we talked a lot about ship, but booster obviously did Was that on target that it actually Yeah, the booster was, was almost perfect. I mean, so obviously there was didn't light or, or that But that, that, that we thought was we, we should not turn on basically it, it, I think it had brought it during the start sequence out of concern. But 32 engines is fine. It's, it's resilient to and still completing its mission. Yeah. Like each engine lost is only 3% of thrust. So Exactly. - It's pretty minuscule that could be 50% or a But, and then on, on to lose another engine for landing burn, but it still precise touchdown it looks like. And - Yeah, yeah. No, it landed in the On the water. It was and then obviously it tips over and you know, when it, it smacks down pretty hard 'cause it's like falling of course over 200 feet. - Yeah. So does that, I that you were planning Do you feel like you doing the booster catch next? Does that - Yeah, we'll talk it over with lingering concerns. But the point at which we and we can execute the, the we've shown, then I think have the tower catch it. - Wow. And you don't feel like you need to have tower two ready You - No, not necessarily because we, we, we do have for the, for the arms and, and they're actually a better set of arms we could put on there. Right. Those are kind of old design. Yeah. I mentioned that they're, that those arms are the moments of inertia are too high. So it's just you, you want actually shorter Yeah. So my inclination, you know, but I mean the way at SpaceX is not, I, I don't, of drop an imperial decree but it's pretty rare. Yeah. Usually it's like, we'll what the general consensus is and, and move in that direction. - Yeah. That's gonna be wild. So, so hopefully next though of see more or less a and of this mission profile, maybe do a, would you maybe to kind of prove out orbital - Yeah, that's a good question. I haven't, we haven't like clearly Raptor relight does work. We had the three, you had three - Relight. - Yeah. The, the three, which would be the ones after all that drama Yeah. Coming through crazy heating. Yeah. And of the two tiles where we, we took the tiles off. Yeah. We'd actually put One was two layers of ablative, one was one layer of ablative. Yep. The two layer of through the one layer of ablative did, but I'm not sure if it actually burned through the steel too. But it did erode the But it just says that if of our ablative, it does So that could be your before - Like you're kind of talking about that. So, so worst case scenario next time, which we'll probably a couple months already. - Yeah. We're depending on how many, on what changes we, we make, I I think we're, we're Yeah. Yeah. If, if, if we need I'd, I'd say from, from not counting out regulatory, we're ready probably in less than 30 days. If there are bigger changes, no later than 60 days, but, - And that's, that's where gonna be shocked that you're continue to increase cadence. I mean, this is the third flight in a row where you're lifted complicated vehicle ever made right at the, at the top of the window. You know, not scrubbing for days and days trying to figure out how to launch just like the Hit T zero off. We, - We did have a off a a, a ground valve, propellant tank valve on to be tweaked. Yeah. But that's what But the vehicle itself had no issues. - That's still incredible. flight ever of the largest, I mean that's insane and So yeah, we're really excited. I'll, I know you guys have a I really appreciate that you did follow up with us. This is, this is - Awesome. Absolutely awesome. - That's - You're making progress. Thank you. Thank you so much for your time and can't wait for the next one. - Alright, cool. Thanks again so much. Elon and everyone here at SpaceX Huge thank you. This is just incredible. We're so excited for what's going on. We're gonna be out here You better believe it. So stay tuned. There's a lot more excitement to come. And I also owe a huge thank If you wanna help support the Astronaut, head on over to And another quick shout out Check them out at for 40% off the Ground News, unlimited access vantage plan this month. And while you're online, be sure and check out our incredible merch store for shirts like this. Our orbital shirt, we've collection, Falcon 9 of other incredible stuff over at everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks everybody. That's I'm Tim Dodd, the everyday to earth for everyday people.