California. The state with a population and to another country. From Spanish to Mexican to Yosemite, and so much more. How did Historians don't have an exact date, but began inhabiting the land of modern-day settlers came from Asia, likely across the more than 100 separate tribes totaling anywhere These tribes had their own cultures and ways own for thousands of years - until European The first known European to reach the gorgeous in 1542. Cabrillo's expedition had been launched Viceroyalty of New Spain, and ended up in San however, as Cabrillo failed to discover anything to colonize. He left, and California remained such as those from the Spanish East Indies traders but the idea of colonizing the territory still Francis Drake plundered his way into Oregon and no real settlement of any sort was actually another Spanish sailor, this one set off for the coast of California in the too, found San Diego Bay as well as It wasn't until decades later that the Spanish in what they were now calling Alta California. alongside Baja California below it. the first to set up real, permanent settlements be established alongside California's first than another dozen missions would spring up in more Franciscans aimed to convert the local general effort to colonize the region, however, North American holdings were slowly pushing And the Spanish relationship with the Natives the very least. While the missionaries hoped culture and beliefs, they also attempted to take labor while keeping them organized on small belonged to the Indigenous. In response to this the Natives organized several revolts which appealing to new colonists. Alta California was and the lack of adequate funding left small of the settlement and missionary establishment. the following year saw the accidental discovery recognize Sebastian Vizcaino's description Further expeditions did uncover more of Northern but life in Alta California failed to become disease, and frequent violence with the Natives province. Still, the colonists remained and presidios, and pueblos - many of which we Los Angeles, Monterey, and Santa Cruz. It a functioning new province...until The 1821 war saw Mexico break free from with the neighboring lands. It was now a Mexican began to shift in the direction of a ranching to the new policies of the Mexican government, and along with European migrants began filling in the declining number of Indigenous. The consequence of the missions which relied on their population of the missions was soon secularized by the Mexican California settlers were having to share land would soon outnumber their predecessors to the American-Californians stage an uprising against The summer of 1846 would mark this so-called now-famous flag of their newly declared California While the revolt broke out on June 14 and found were informed that the United States - who had their surprise, had already captured Monterey and two options - take up arms against another nation accept American authority without a fight. had actually been to make California an American With the Treaty of Guadalupe the Mexican-American War came to official possession of the United States. Two state of the United States of America. But The famous California Gold Rush began at Sutter's California when Marshall discovered gold on immediate reaction to the news brought in migrants particularly Mexico, China, and of the announcement by President James Prospectors from all around the U.S., flooding the state throughout 1849 and and mines were springing up around Northern It's believed that between 1850 and 1859 of gold were discovered. With an additional the Gold Rush came to an end and the state Civil War played out, spilling brotherly blood California's agriculture now had a unique chance and general development. The once sparse and and passed up time after time was becoming a while, however, life for Native Californians was disease, and seclusion were now secured onto population numbers were on a constant downhill The state's modern history is no less busy than in a constant state of adaptation. After much first tragedy in California's recent past when 1906. The effects were utterly catastrophic, 250,000 people without homes, and a now estimated the loss of life and property reminder of what the earth under When the Great Depression hit the United States, small an angst when compared to the comforts and the "Dust Bowl" states of the Midwest. Even after state as an ideal home. California's economy thus to the short-lived republic. By the middle already earned itself the title of the nation's Other significant events in the state's modern social justice movements that a 1969 Native American occupation of Today, California sits as one of America's Its geography, economy, culture, and history are past is often focused primarily on its role in addition to the more modern designation as the a home to the Indigenous, a Spanish colony, and at long last as a U.S. state are all equally past. Its California's bustling history that