They were once known as the Concordes of to ferry their passengers with speed and national innovation and represented the and yet like the Concorde, the huge that once traversed the 22 mile English hundreds of passengers and cars are no But today the technology still attracts industry and rescue services. These most inhospitable terrain defying that would be unpassable in other of travelling up fast flowing rivers, land. 60 years after their invention they remote corners of the world. trademark held by the British produced some of Britain's largest and To avoid the trademark other or air-cushion vehicles, whatever name result of a common principle to trap a reduce friction with the ground or waves with the invention of the hovercraft was Cockerel who worked on radio technology Marconi company. After leaving Marconi he bought a small boat hire business and immediately applied these engineering boats go faster. High-speed watercraft Donald Campbell's Bluebird had broken by 1958 hydroplaning on the calm lakes finally 239 miles an hour 395 km/h. These speeds were possible as a result of surface effects water like a skimming stone. Cockerel had a different approach. By funneling a curtain of air around the perimeter of on a cushion of trapped air. The unique the hovercraft was able to float above slowly or stopped. Cockerel first tested channeling air from a vacuum cleaner scaling up a test with a series of autumn of 1958 he sent in design for the the factory at Saunders-Roe. The first nautical one or SR-N1. This first models, so as it zoomed across the water of spray. Regardless the media were it the nickname the &quot;Flying Saucer&quot;. On the 25th of July 1959, 50 years to the day after Louis Bleriot made the first heavy than airplane, the SR-N1 set off hovercraft crossing. As part of a board, his job to provide dynamic ballast the hovercraft. With a moderate swirl and Dover in two hours and three minutes. on refining the design. As on the first with high winds or over variable slopes, to compensate for the poor steering with the addition in 1961 of the it greater clearance over the ground or cushion of air. the SR-N1 could now this improved carrying capacity also a turbojet engine to be fitted aft of the 35 to 50 knots is 57 miles an hour hovercraft were developed in the next licensed to be built by the US military jungles of Vietnam. Saunders-Roe Factory was the SR-N4 the larger than any of a preceding &quot;Princess Margaret&quot; was originally cars. The four steerable propellers on each 19 feet or 6.1 meters across these turboprop engines each using a ton of expanding twice growing to a capacity of a 747 airliner. The main ferry route was which took on average just 35 minutes. go even faster and the unofficial record blistering 15 minutes and 23 seconds Channel is 70mph (112km/h) this Princess Margaret was also immortalized forever&quot; in which Sean Connery embarked ferry. The channel's hovercraft service million passengers made the crossing closed, in part due to competition from by other accounts it was the end of the hovercraft uneconomical. products on board were making more when spare parts ran out the SR-N4 was SRM for the Princess Anne for display in the UK was successful and the progress Mountbatten hovercraft continues this year. Christopher cockerel envisioned a future where we would cross the Atlantic however this wasn't to be. Rising oil routes, more economical hydrofoils and margins. However in rough terrain and still can't be matched and has been amphibious units. The largest military vessel the &quot;Zubr class&quot; Zubr is 57 meters long or 187 feet one carry a much greater load up to 555 tons or eight armored personnel carriers with designed in the 1980s by the Soviet American LCAC military hovercraft. It hiding its magnetic field a kind of influence mines. In the case of a nuclear their living quarters and continue their In 2009 China announced that they would for $350 million dollars each and since then they have been granted a license to build further derivatives themselves. territories in the South China Sea huge front and center in the world stage for this episode shirt was the trip paisley available from atom in the UK. We also have the curious droid page and I would like to thank all of you would like to support us then please always thanks again for watching and