Everyone has a seed of mindfulness. If we practice diligently, then the grain, then the seed, of mindfulness in us And anytime we need that energy of mindfulness, we just touch it and we have plenty of it And we know that mindfulness to allow us to know what is going on. Going on in our body. Going on in our feelings. Going on in our mind. And going on in the world. So mindfulness has 4 objects. The first object of mindfulness is body. And we have... 4... exercises on mindful breathing in order to take care of our... of our body. And then we have the realm of feelings. And we have... another set of... of 4 to take care of our feelings and emotions. And the third object of mindfulness is the mind. The mind means the mental formations. The mind is a kind of river. And the mental formations are drops of water succeeding each other and make a... a stream. So to meditate means to sit on the river of the mind and recognize every mental formation as it arises. This is to be aware of our in-breaths and out-breaths. This is to follow... in-breaths and out-breaths. This is to be aware of our body. This is to calm... our body. This is to generate joy. This is to generate happiness. This is to be aware of the painful feeling or emotion. And this is to calm down... the painful feeling and emotion. So mindfulness has the body as the first object, feelings as the second object, and mind as the third object. And the 9th exercise... is to be aware... of each mental formation as it arises. Simple recognition. Simple awareness. No attempt to fight. Or to... to grasp. No grasping. No fighting. Just allow the mental formation to be there and recognize it. Hello, Fear. I know you are there. I will take good care of you. So it is useful to have a list of mental formations so that we can recognize them easily, And the 10th... The 10th exercise of mindful breathing is to... make the landscape of the mind consciousness beautiful and happy. Yesterday we have seen that... consciousness has at least two layers. And the lower layer is store consciousness. And there are good, wholesome seeds down here. And, among them, the seed of mindfulness, the seed of concentration, love, nonviolence, joy, happiness and so on. So the practice of the 10th exercise is to help, is to invite, these wholesome seeds to manifest. The seed of mindfulness. The seed of concentration. The seeds of insight. The seeds of understanding, There are many good seeds in us. And if we want to be happy, Watering the good seeds in us. When you come to a retreat like this, Everything we hear (or) we see have the... the function to water the good seeds in us, and that is to gladden our mind, So the first aspect of the practice is to give these beautiful seeds a chance to manifest. If they manifest on the upper level of our consciousness, we are happy, we are joyful. So a good practitioner knows how to water the wholesome seeds in him or in her every day. She has to select. Because when you read a magazine, that article may contain a lot of anger, of frustration or fear. And while you are reading that article, you water the unwholesome seeds. So you have to be selective in watering. you try to view only the things And this we can discuss with our children, and students. Because many of us are intoxicating ourselves every day by... unmindful consumption. Even conversations can be very toxic. The other person may talk to us for one hour. And what she say is full of anger and fear and despair. And if we listen like that, we water... those unwholesome seeds in us and we get sick. And if you are a psychotherapist, protect yourself. Because every day you listen to histories, You have to establish a balance. You have to go to the Sangha. You have to water the good seeds in you. Otherwise, you cannot continue for a long time. So the good practitioner knows how to... water the good seeds, and give them a chance to manifest up here on the level of mind consciousness. And she's happy, she's pleasant, and her partner will enjoy that. And the practitioner also knows how to Darling, if you care... if you really care for me, don't water the negative seeds in me. You know that I have the seeds And if you water these seeds, I will be... I will suffer. And if I suffer, you have to suffer with me. So, darling, I promise that I will not water... these negative seeds in me. And you have to make the same commitment. You do not water these unwholesome seeds in you. And I make the commitment And you make the commitment not to water This is a peace treaty (that) you sign with your partner. And the first step of the practice is called the practice of selective watering. And the practice of true diligence is not to give the negative seeds down here a chance. Allow them to sleep quietly down there. If you do love me, please don't water these seeds in me. And I promise that I will not water And the second aspect of the practice is that, if by chance, if it happens, that one negative seed is watered, and manifests here as a mental formation, you should know how to help that to go... back to its place of origin as quickly as possible. You don't try to suppress. There are many ways. The first... The first way is to invite the seed of mindfulness And after a few minutes, they will lose some strength and go back to the original place here. That is that the first method helping that seed... to go back as quickly as possible by the way of recognizing and embracing. This we have talked about yesterday already. The second way is to invite Because you have a seed of anger, tenderness, kindness... And when the seed of tenderness and kindness that seed will withdraw by itself. It's like a television set with several channels. Channel one. Or Channel two. Hell or Paradise, up to you to choose. So the first aspect is that, don't give them a chance in yourself The second aspect is that, try to help it go back as soon as possible, it is up here, the bigger it will grow People who are very angry. But ten years ago they were not angry like that. Because the seed of anger in him has been watered So that is why not to water And we have to agree with our &quot;partner.&quot; Our &quot;partner&quot; may be our father, our mother, And then the third aspect of the practice is... to recognize the good seeds in you because their presence in the level of and happiness. (It's) called... &quot;gladdening our mind&quot;. The 10th (exercise). And when a good seed has manifested up here, we can... we may like to keep it up there as long as possible. May the joy last. Que la joie demeure. Just like when you have a good friend visiting. You'd like to keep him or her longer with you. The same thing is true with this. If a feeling of joy, feeling of happiness, try to keep that feeling up there as long as you can. Because the longer they... they remain here, the bigger they will grow down there. At the grassroots level, the good seeds It's like, when we come to a retreat of one week, some of the good seeds are water. And if we have the retreat extended to two weeks, then the good seeds will grow bigger. So these are 4 levels, or 4 aspects of the practice. The negative seeds, don't give them a chance in me and in you. If they have already had a chance to manifest, The good seeds, give them a plenty have manifested, keep them And that is what we called in Plum Village And you can change the situation very quickly. Even one hour of practice I remember that day was the Vesak day, and I was giving a talk And I saw a lady sitting in the... in the audience. And she cried So after finishing the talk, I... I went to him, to... to her husband, and I told him, &quot;Dear friend, your flower needs some watering. He understood right away. He understood the teaching, but he did not practice. He needed a sangha. He needed a teacher. He needed So after lunch he was driving home He watered the good seeds in her. And when they arrived one hour of drive, very joyful, very happy, It was very quick. The result can come very quickly. Recognize the good seeds in him or in her. Water them. And you'll see. The transformation can be... can happen very, very quickly. The 11th exercise is to practice concentrating on the mental formation. Your practice looking deeply Like fear, anger, despair,... And, the 12th exercise of mindful breathing is to liberate... yourself from that mental formation. Like fear, anger, despair,... And this is the 12th exercise on mindful breathing. And there is another set of 4. All these have been proposed by the Buddha. And, this is the third object of mindfulness. And the 4th object of mindfulness Which means the world. This is about perceptions, our perceptions of the world. Scientists will say that stars, sun, moon, trees, mountains, But in Buddhism, we say &quot;objects of mind.&quot; Because everything depends on the mind. There is one thing you can be sure of. Galaxies, or cosmos, or trees, or birds, or river, or mountains. They are the objects of your mind. Because mind includes subject and object. And every mental formation also includes subject and object. To be angry is to be angry... at something, at someone. You cannot be angry at nothing. So anger needs an object. Anger is a mental formation. Perception is a... a mental formation. To perceive means to perceive something. You cannot perceive... without an object. The perceiver and the thing that is perceived, they manifest at the same time. The subject and object, they inter-are. You cannot take subject out of object That is the nature of interbeing. It is like... yesterday we talked about You cannot take the right out of the left The same is true with perception, with the mind. Mind and object of mind.... inter-are. You cannot take one from the other. And modern science begins to realize that, You have to be a participant. And that is why in Buddhism, since 2,600 years ago, object of mind as the cosmos or nature. mountains, rivers, galaxies, and so on. And the 4th realm of mindfulness consists of practice of concentration that has the power to liberate. And the 13th exercise on mindful breathing is the contemplation... contemplating... impermanence. The 14th is contemplating the nature of non-craving. The 15th is to contemplate the nature Of no birth and no death. Of... Of what is there. And the 16th excise is contemplating letting go. Letting go of ideas like being, non-being, birth, death, sameness, otherness... We will speak about this later on in the retreat. So, the last 4... sets of exercises are the kind of practice of... of concentration that help liberate us from afflictions... and liberate us from the kind of afflictions that makes us suffer.