(Sound of a saw) A chess board is to be created. With a technology that is thousands of years old. Inlay work made of wood, so-called marquetry, existed in Egypt more than 4,000 years ago. For Heinz Echtermann, inlaid work has become part of his life. I go to bed with inlays at night and wake up with them in the morning. Always something new to discover, always doing something new - I'm always on the lookout: What can you do differently? The passion for filigree inlaid wood has accompanied the 84-year-old carpenter for over 70 years. (whirring) In his intarsia museum, he has collected works by himself and his daughter Corinna from seven decades . He creates large format wall decorations with perfect craftsmanship as well as the smallest ornaments. He is at home in the Hunsruck town of Mermuth near Emmelshausen . And patiently cultivates a craft that he masters masterfully. But that has lost importance in recent years. The old carpenter's workshop with a romantic Boller stove and old veneers is reminiscent of times gone by. Heinz Echtermann shows me how to build a chessboard by hand. I'm going to build a chess board now. You need a sharp knife for inlays. You can make it very easy for yourself if you break halfway through it. Heinz Echtermann makes his own tools. He grinds an inlaid knife out of blunt hacksaw blades that are no longer needed. (knock) So, let's sharpen this up a bit. (Saw starts up.) Now I'll sand it down a bit. For a nice tip. We only cut with the tip. They're movable. So this is very important. circular cutting and such. Craft knives are very sharp, but you can't make marquetry with them. Now we need some leather. You always have the same knife in your hand. But I have a whole bunch, probably a hundred. They don't cost anything, the knives. That's the beauty of it. The locksmiths throw them away when they're dull. I have a couple of locksmiths who bring them with them. Then we drink a nice schnapps or beer for it. The carpenter glues a handle for the knife out of leather. Fold a little. Then I cut this off. So now we need to squeeze that, really squeeze. (He groans.) You can't take that apart anymore. Wonderful! It's done, the knife. Now we have to cut the strips. A chessboard consists of four light and four dark stripes. There are 64 fields in total. Let's see. I thought so with walnut and maple. Because this is very dense wood. But it can also be cut well. So now we need four light ones and four dark ones. You can put that on here. I've already put two nails in there. (he bangs) You can put that right there. So, and then I have a ruler here. That's five centimeters. A chess board must be five to six centimeters. Now I'll cut myself... I'll try here... to cut a little more precisely. You can of course also do this with a cut through. But then something usually tears out. So. Once. Cut thin veneers with great care. Heinz Echtermann acquired the technique over decades. He recognizes the structure of the veneers and works more with patience than with strength. So, now I have four light ones, now four dark ones are added. This is walnut now. The wooden leaves are just 0.7 millimeters thick. The production of marquetry is more reminiscent of the work of a surgeon than traditional carpentry. The focus with classic inlays is the cut. But it is the glue work that dominates this fine wood technique. Now we have cut strips, four light, four dark. (quietly:) We'll do that away. We're going to glue this together now. And then we'll do it again right away. That shouldn't stay there. Heinz Echtermann cuts adhesive strips to size. The professional has developed his own cutting rhythm. The wafer-thin wood veneers are first provisionally attached to the back. And later firmly glued to the front. That's just holding it together now, another band will come over it soon. All woods from Echtermann's collection are not stained, but left completely natural. Over the years, the carpenter has collected an impressive number of valuable and rare woods. Many of these are now on the trade index for conservation reasons. But those that have been in your possession for a longer period of time can of course be used up. Alright. Now let's put the other tape on top. So this is not Tesa tape, this is for wood. Because that stays on. The tape stays on. Under the press. Later, the thin tape is sanded off completely. Inlay cutting - it's like assembling a jigsaw puzzle with thousands of pieces. The stripes don't look like a chess board yet. The typical pattern is laid only after the cut. So now let's do it again from here. This is the fine side afterwards, where the glue comes on. Here it is. It is important to only use adhesive tapes that are not too sticky. The sensitive wood must not be damaged under any circumstances during removal . Nothing works in the joinery without a right angle. One of the few tools that Heinz Echtermann did not make himself. Inlays are his purpose in life. Although he actually wanted to take up a completely different profession. We were eight kids at home, eight boys. And everyone had to learn a trade. And I always wanted... well, in a hotel... to work. As a child. And that didn't work. Then my mother told me... The carpentry shop was next door. She went there with me. &quot;Can Heinz study here?&quot; And that's where I got to learn. Now I'm glad it happened that way. My master, he made beautiful inlays. I liked that and then I just... couldn't let go. And that's where I started it. Til today. And so inlays became a lifelong passion for Heinz Echtermann. Now the same thing starts again as before. Square chessboards with their 32 white and 32 dark squares have always been suitable for noble inlaid work of all kinds. In earlier times, inlaid chessboards were often built directly into the surfaces of small pieces of furniture. Heinz Echtermann turns the cut strips and the checkerboard pattern is created. So now we're going to do that again. This procedure repeats itself. The newly arranged veneer strips are pre-glued and then fixed with adhesive strips. In the 18th century , the furniture manufactory of Abraham and David Roentgen in Neuwied supplied furniture with artistic inlays to aristocratic houses throughout Europe. And Heinz Echtermann learned his trade in Neuwied. Well, now it's getting better again... Inlaid art last flourished in Art Nouveau, at the beginning of the 20th century. Elaborate wood inlays matched the playful design of the time. Nowadays this craft is practiced only by a few enthusiasts like Heinz Echtermann. The temporary adhesive fixation is no longer required. The adhesive strips can be removed again. I'm now doing the division on it for the letters. That we can get them right in the middle. The crowning glory of a home-made chessboard: hand- carved numbers from one to eight and letters from A to H. Daughter and company boss Corinna Schmeisser takes on this tedious and time-consuming task. So. Corinna, I've marked them now. Then you can put those... your letters on them. Or the numbers. Four pieces, everything. Yes? Here, too, there is gluing before the cut. Corinna Schmeisser first attaches adhesive tape to the four edge strips. This prevents the thin wood veneers from tearing. Alright. And now I can start placing the... numbers and letters on the veneer. Anyone who works with inlays has to think in reverse. To ensure that the numbers and letters can be seen correctly by both players , some objects are placed upside down and reversed. Corinna Schmeisser has been infected with the marquetry virus since she was a child. Her specialty is figurative wood inlays. For the chess board, she places all templates precisely and fixes them again with tape. So. Now everything is completely fixed. And now everything is cut. For these precision cuts, Corinna Schmeisser needs an illuminated working magnifier. Almost looks like a scalpel surgery. First the letter is scratched with foil. Now the foil comes off. So. That's being recorded now. We need that for later. Now then... the second letter. So, I'm going to make a few tapes here now. inlaid ribbons. So that we can embellish the chessboard a bit, sideways. This is now walnut, maple. Confused. Eucalyptus. Inlaid ribbons are something like the filigree endless loop of craftsmanship. Wafer-thin wooden sticks are neatly placed next to each other in a recurring pattern. And later cut crosswise into long strips. This creates an artistic pattern. Often the inlay craftsman's personal calling card. Because at Heinz Echtermann there are no industrially manufactured straps. He only makes them by hand. This is always repeated here, the pattern. This laying technique is quite time consuming. Cutting out numbers and letters also takes time. It takes Corinna Schmeisser around four hours to complete the four side strips, each with eight characters. It's quiet in the wood workshop when both are working with concentration. We've put that together now. The tape goes on the back here. So that everything holds together so that we can cut it. (Tape crackles.) This is always the visible side where the tape is. Heinz Echtermann has many such inlaid blanks in his workshop and uses them as needed. (panting:) And now the machine here. A machine is even sometimes used for the thin wooden sticks. However, it is old and provisionally fixed to the workbench with screw clamps. A clean cut - the carpenter already has a decorative, individual inlaid band. It's actually like a collector. Everyone collects... One collects stamps, I collected wood. And the result is that you have beautiful woods. And you want to process that, right? That's the attraction. Always something new to discover. I do all the designs here. That's how it turned out. So, I've now masked walnut. And that now comes behind the cut out letters. And the letters are then cut out again, in walnut. And later used. So. This is of course the most complex work that has to be done on a chessboard. When letters and numbers are cut out. To place those on the edge. A job that requires a lot of patience and sensitivity. Now that's being reversed. And now I cut the letters... out of the other veneer. And then fit them into the strip. Now it shows how accurately Corinna Schmeisser worked. Small tears are no problem. Paint will come on later. The dark H fits exactly into the light recess. (ratcheting of the tape) Tape off the letters from above. So now we're going to lay the vein here. We'll make a nice intarsia band around it. We'll start with maple. Then comes mahogany. Then comes... this beautiful tape right here. Then comes mahogany again. So, then add that. The next step is also small and a bit fiddly. For the outer frame of the chess board , carpenter Heinz Echtermann lays out thin vertical strips. In between comes the previously created intarsia band with the horizontal stripes. The filigree laying work demands the fine motor skills of the now 84-year-old from the Hunsruck region. At my age it's a bit difficult. But that doesn't matter. Well, let's just say, if you're being completely honest, in the 70 years that I've been doing this, I've gone to bed with intarsia at night and got up with them in the morning. The patterns go through your head. What are you doing now? Because these are drawings that we get. According to the drawings we have to work. Otherwise we have no drawings. It all goes like this. This has been acquired over the years. How can you do something like that? The carpenter has mastered the technology for this inside out. The border is also neatly connected to the chess fields. So now we're done here, I just need to make the border. I'm done now too. I've got both of them ready now. - Thanks very much. Can you invest now? - Thanks very much. Corinna was still very young. It started when she was twelve. She really liked what I do. I started with graphics. Corinna is more into something pictorial. This is the boss now. At 65, I gave that up when I turned 65. And she's the boss now. But I can still work here. He is allowed to. And he wants. Working in the workshop simply keeps him fit. Motor skills and mental agility are promoted during wood laying work. The edges with the letters and numbers now form the outer frame of the chessboard. Like all previous parts, they are first stapled and then taped in place. (Adhesive tape ratchets.) Everything is still glued where later chess pieces will be drawn. On the back, Heinz Echtermann can remove the adhesive strips again. So. Now the miter blade is here. You start here, in the corner and here in the middle. Strength is required for this cut. Finally he has to cut through two layers of wood with pressure. Minor cut damage is repaired immediately. After painting, they are no longer visible. (Crackling) By the way, this is where the stable carpet knife comes into play. Yes, that's because you're cutting. If you cut straight, that's good. They're insanely sharp, the knives. The miter cuts at the corners are the final touches to the chess board puzzle. Everything is now firmly glued. Now the chess board can be glued to the base plate. So. Now we have to put a newspaper on it. You can also use other paper. So that glue does not penetrate onto the plate. That's for the back now. Otherwise it will be crooked. The back must always be glued. Everything you do. This is a completely normal surface glue here. We get them by the bucketful. Using a serrated spatula, Heinz Echtermann spread the glue evenly over the surface of the chipboard. We can do it like this, now. Then we put the back on it. That'll hold up. There. Nothing happens anymore. The upper side for the checkerboard veneer is glued in the same way. This ensures that the chipboard does not warp. So. And newspaper over it again. That's just... It might get through glue, afterward. Yes? And then that's stuck to the plate. This is bad. So, Corinna. can you help me please Let's put the record on here. Come here. So. Let's put that under the press. A little more, a little more. Good Good. A little over there. And... So, here. Open &quot;close&quot;. So. (Even tapping) The chess board is pressed overnight in the veneer press until the glue has dried. It's not yet. It snaps. Ah, now he's locked in. So. And! Whoa! Do it! Good. This is what the finished inlaid art by Heinz Echtermann looks like. Over the decades, he and his daughter have built up an impressive inlaid museum right next to the workshop. The exhibits are very diverse. Everything is represented, from wooden ornaments in modern percussion instruments, such as a cajon here, to traditional murals . The inlay is very old, isn't it? It's already over... You already know that from Egypt, where you used to make inlays. And today you just have different motives. Then I started with graphics. I liked that, the graphics. That's the result I see here today. I mostly enjoy graphics. to develop. All exhibits were made by Heinz Echtermann and his daughter Corinna. The preferences of the two are different. Corinna Schmeisser's inlaid work is reminiscent of fashion drawings. The big moment the day after. The chess board comes out of the veneer press. (clanking) Good. Is good. put that down put it there So, let's take the paper off right away. Everything worked fine. The chessboard is firmly glued, excess glue was absorbed by the newspaper. (Whirring) Heinz Echtermann cuts the four sides straight with the circular saw. (Saw screeches.) So. The carpenter glues four thin maple veneers to the cut edges. This is a two-component adhesive. Heinz Echtermann uses the strong two-component adhesive for the side strips because he cannot press wood glue into the narrow area. So. So, now this is pressed here. You should never knock that. That you now go and knock on it, right? That is not allowed. This is where the pressure matters. With such a glue here. So, and now I have to cut the edge. That's it. Now you can grind directly. That's just... Something's leaking out from the glue. Otherwise you always have the tapes full. The remains of the adhesive strips and newspaper are first sanded off by hand. (grinding noises) There . I made some noise. Heinz Echtermann then smooths the surface of the chess board with the orbital sander. He starts with a coarse 80 grit and has to be very careful not to sand through the thin wood veneer. (Whirring of the grinding machine) And now I'll put another on it, right? That was now 80s. Let's take 150s. The grain is getting finer and finer. It is important to grind evenly. Finally , for the final touches, the carpenter uses sandpaper with a 320 grit. A chessboard is glorious. Everyone knows that. I play chess, yes. It's fun too. Have a glass of wine while you're at it. There's just no opponent here. There aren't any people playing chess here in the village, actually. Then the first painting. Heinz Echtermann distributes the clear coat evenly on the chess board. Nice to see how the natural colors of the wood now come into their own. The dry wood absorbs the varnish. That's why it has to be painted at least twice. That's good for now. After the first varnishing, the wood has to dry again. Then the chessboard gets the really final touch. So. Already finished the edge. (squeaking) Wonderful. That makes me happy. i am a happy person I wish all people were that happy at work. A lot of people go to work with stomach ache these days. And here you don't have a stomach ache. It's fun here. And so the happy Mr. Echtermann goes to the finishing touches. The smoothly polished surface of the chessboard is varnished again. Good. That's always the crowning glory, right? Afterward. When it's sanded and then covered with varnish, it looks great now, doesn't it? That is beautiful. And if you put figures on it, then it has an effect. A chess board with marquetry. Manufactured entirely by hand. If you consider the many work steps, the price of around 280 euros is more than reasonable. Only the chess players who appreciate the board are missing. Then the game is open. SWR 2019