Transcriber: Hiroko Kawano Asperger's syndrome - a condition I have, by the way, is defined as a lifelong evident from childhood Persons with the syndrome are often mocked and ill-treated because they appear unusual Many people with Asperger's seem to take mostly mathematics. Right, I am failing mathematics, so somebody should We want this to be correct. Frustration with the outside world, may provoke aggressive My name is Krister Palo, and I'm here to tell you the stigmas So first of all, how did I get here? It started during a physical Somebody was bothering me, they continued bothering me. And so basically, I used the age-old and where the sun don't shine. So we'd ended up being, &quot;If you don't stop bothering me, I'll shove a javelin (Laughter) Now, of course, I and a couple of other people for about the first 20 minutes, and that's when everyone said that I was constantly I was attacking students and I was greatly encouraged in order to &quot;continue&quot; however you want to interpret that. And I was also told that that is it, I've ruined my life, and that is going on my Funnily enough, this was possibly that could have ever happened to me. Because I learned that, yes, whether there's something wrong with me, it isn't final. I learned how to deal with me; I learned how to help others deal with me; and others learned, generally, So quite simply put, I was diagnosed, and this meant that something You see, when we hear &quot;Asperger's,&quot; And one of the most and it goes over and over Not all of us are. We're not the greatest people But what is true is almost all of us which, if nurtured, However, we are so afraid that often what we do and you crush it, destroy it, And what you have done is you have taken something and you have left something Now, some people believe Now, we, even today, we're still taking the fruits While not all of his ideas one of his most famous ideas - while it did have its downside - it had a massive upside: a clean, reliable, safe source of energy However, for most people, that we just destroy it. Now, don't get me wrong, stereotypes aren't always the worst. I say Russia, you say vodka. I say Canada, you say I say The Netherlands, you're both correct by the way, well done. How ever stereotypes are limiting, we like to use stereotypes and that area we like to deem as final. As example, I have been told because this is the best way However, if I was to momentarily one camera may completely lose me, one may only have part of me, but there will be one or two cameras and which will allow an even It will be able to capture Of course, eventually, because, of course, it is sort of a home, it is sort of what we are defined as. But momentarily would allow you and allow others Now, stigmas are there, It is there. However, they are often Most people, the moment they try and constantly trying to have constant eye contact, which, if you do, I will run which will not be fun for anyone. Believe me. Again, don't try and avoid it, because then it looks or not paying attention However, if I have something stuck I'd like to get that Thank you. Now, one of the other things is we have our way of life; That's not true. If you're a student, you wouldn't see Adults, any special documents forget it, you're not seeing it anymore. This isn't a valid excuse to use Don't even try it. I am not allowing you to do that. Now, what these items do and what your actions are it sets us on the sidelines. We are stuck there on the sidelines, looking at you something that we may also be But yet, you assume - just because of a definition in a book, or a definition or something a teacher that he doesn't want to join in, and therefore, we're not So what you are doing is You are taking that seed, And you believe - and this isn't only your generation; you have been told that we can't You have been told, that this is true, that you ignore or for the person to show it. But I'm here, aren't I? Thank you very much. (Applause) (Cheers)