in 31 days, 12xed within 20 months, and 265xed THE NEED FOR GPUS: valuable that they grow by $2 trillion in half a work. All computers, be it your phone or laptop, or CPU for short. This CPU handles tasks For a long time, this was enough processing power. processing power was skyrocketing, and CPUs they weren't great at handling certain complex This is Jensen Huang, Nvidia's founder. He "Video games were simultaneously one of the most have incredibly high sales volume. Those Nvidia was advocating that the way forward was solve this increasing problem. But how? Well, a but a GPU has hundreds or even thousands complex tasks simultaneously. This makes GPUs heaps of data. And it worked. Computers and Nvidia was at the forefront of this change. HOW WE GOT HERE: how did GPUs propel them to the top of the world? are deeply connected with the rise of video games. way of playing video games and products like the more complicated and graphically intensive You see, casual players were moving away from were becoming more powerful. But the enthusiasts Towards more powerful dedicated gaming PCs. And found an ever-growing market selling directly to Their flagship GPU, the GTX 1080 TI, cost $700. is priced around $1600. Nvidia wasn't the only one same thing, including Nvidia's cheaper competitor, it turns out video games are only one part by grown over 300,000% to over $3 trillion, and the last seven years. What happened in this In 2017, crypto began to grow, and grow fast. At $800. But by the end of 2017, it had surpassed this jump saw a rise in Crypto mining. In a very, solve intense math equations, in exchange for performing this might make a few dollars, but GPUs were perfect for this, so the market was wanted GPUs. Yet, things got even crazier just a During the pandemic, supply chains crawled to a high demand, one thing happens. Prices go up. price of Bitcoin rose to $59,000. Gamers wanted with Crypto miners to get them. Graphics Cards wars drive prices to 5 times their retail price Everyone wanted their product, so naturally, perfect place at the perfect time. But that's when In 2022, Crypto experienced its biggest Bitcoin had reached $69,000. But just $16,000. The demand for graphics cards for made worse by the rise of mining-specific it didn't matter. All of this was trivial they have been working towards one goal for a In Nvidia's 2016 report, they stated the Al revolution. Progress is exponential. industry and society will also be exponential." GPUs are essential for deep learning, and Nvidia self-driving cars, and of course, the launch of was finally here, and every big tech company Meta. Hundreds of startups with sky-high was Nvidia, which won the THE TALE OF CISCO: So why do I think a crash is coming? How can the crash? Well, Nvidia's growth is remarkably similar At the end of the 90s, the dot com was unbelievable. Investors were and many of the bigger firms were spending skyrocketing and some of the fastest growing Today, you probably see Cisco as some sort of in the 90s, they were seen as the company They were the biggest supplier of network businesses needed to take advantage of the perfect time, and all the hype fed back to On the 27th of March, 2000, Cisco even most valuable company. Yet, the very next Everyone began to sell. The entire market, had millions of users and revenue but weren't Cisco's stock crashed over 90% from $82 their customers disappeared forever. Cisco did 24 years later, Cisco stock has yet AN IMPENDING CRASH: do with Nvidia? Just because one company crashed, at the landscape because there are a lot of AI gold rush, and when you're in a gold rush, you is what Cisco was doing with network equipment, Many of Nvidia's customers are tech giants like more. These giants use GPUs to build giant data These are used to train their own AIs but are including the hundreds of new startups in the AI This is where the gold rush is coming from. to train AIs with deep learning as investors But is this actually stable? Many of based on speculation. The rush is why giants heavily in Machine Learning infrastructure. If the demand passes onto the tech giants, and then companies are starting to realize AI Image-generating AIs, for example, are they are used to train AIs which makes them story because Nvidia's financials are very diving deeper shows us that things aren't just In their annual shareholder report, Nvidia listed but something doesn't add up. A company worth over for example pulls in $236 billion per year and just revenue. Looking at their price-to-earnings This means that if Nvidia stopped growing today, their money. For context, mature companies To be blunt, Nvidia is a house of cards. Their and earnings. Since late 2022, Nvidia's revenue largely due to speculation and perceived value that Nvidia will have an extremely difficult Intel is likely the most mature chip company in they had a PE ratio of 10. If we assume that to justify their $3.2 trillion valuation, Nvidia will have to boast net income of $320 Nvidia's fundamentals will have to continue If growth slows to 50%, Nvidia would And if growth slows 20%, which is still stellar have to maintain that for the next 13 years. Any and Nvidia is already in a windy market as the Between 2000 and 2011, Nvidia experienced 7 cycle of the last decade, we still had and a 68% crash in 2022 during which, Nvidia worth over $120. The stakes are enormous. This the only one who's noticed. Jensen Huang himself THE GRAND PREDICTION: far ahead of itself. It's become fragile, revenue. I think Nvidia has reached its Last time I made a bubble prediction video that Rivian's IPO was the peak of the EV bubble. 2021. Since then, Rivian has crashed 95%. On June 18, 2024, when Nvidia momentarily I placed $9k on $30 Nvidia puts for I sold for $25,000 during the Japanese carry trade just yet. I'm expecting a total fall of around and I plan to double down on my puts around the in the pinned comment below. All of this sounds very bearish but the truth is, an extremely valuable company as GPUs are now Jensen Huang, in my opinion, is one of the with the company since its inception, But, here's the thing. Even with a 70% crash, So, this isn't anti-Nvidia, it's just anti-their Let me know in the comments if you milk. I'd love to hear your thoughts about if you would like to lock in high yields for the description below. We're the modern bond we're currently running a 3% deposit click the link below, but until then, I'm