Today, we'll be showing you how to make a 17th century like still life. By looking closely at Dutch painter Pieter Claesz. We'll be focusing on the lemon, why is that? The lemon is one of the most remarkable objects Pieter Claesz, who made this painting, was one of the first.. if not the first to paint a peeled lemon like this on a plate. In this painting you see a very nicely peeled lemon.. lying on a tin plate, that is just on the rim of the table. As if you can pick it up from the table, you'll see it also with the knife, that's also on The lemon in the painting, just like many objects in still life paintings.. was painted according to a very standard manner. It was used during the whole 17th century, more or less the same.. how they would paint lemons. I have here a lemon and a knife and I will be trying to So that you'll have the top.. and after that the peel making the pulp visible. please mind your fingers, guys! Clear out the top, as you saw in the painting Lemon pieces. Like Pieter Claesz I'm using a panel.. and I've already grounded it with a white gesso layer Next step is making the pallet. and I'm just doing it for the lemon for now, And I'm putting them on the pallet in the order of appearance. That's zinc white, now adding ocre.. black.. and a very bright yellow.. after that a very light yellow.. and a blue. And with that I'll be starting to paint the white pit of the lemon. As you can see I'm using the white to paint the contours.. you could also start with the lid side of the peel.. but it's more difficult to define the shape.. and so when you're starting at once like I'm doing, And what you always try, or what 17th century painters always tried.. was to paint it more or less life size. here some light falls in, so our painting is very white. Black, so I'll be painting the shadow of the pit. I've refined the pit a bit, so you see that I've added more ocre.. and there's some black in there and try to I'll now continue with the peel so that, the rind actually. When you look at the lemon their is of course a certain you'll always make the rind warm yellow and the pulp the a cool yellow.. thats where the blue is for later on. So now I'll be just choosing the same colors plus.. the very bright yellow one for the outside of the lemon. And you might see it's pretty hard to get the lemon from the background.. while yet also the background is very useful for the lemon because it's.. yellow, so we can use it the ocre as a shade tone for the peel. As you can see I'm trying to use the background color.. in the rind because it's already there. and of course todays paint is not that expensive, so you used everything you had.. and if you could, you paint as less as possible. So after the rind and the pit it's time for the pulp.. and pulp is as I said more cool yellow so it's of course all yellows and you have to discern the different parts.. that's why there is blue added to the yellow. We've got an azure like blue, a bit grayish that is. And we use a very bright yellow again. And for the lighter parts you use white to mix in.. and for the darker parts black. And the thing is with the pulp of course it's somewhat translucent.. so the lid side of the pulp might just be here. Because lights coming trough and touching the edge there.. so that's a bit difficult where you make it dark and where you make it light. So light comes from this side, well that side in the still life. But it's also the thing, if you paint this darker.. and you add the sheen or the highlights on it later.. it has much more effect, And of course by adding blue you get a very sour.. bitter lemon. Of course you've more shade in the white pit here.. so then the contrast is bigger if you have lid side of the pulp here. That's it for the pulp, now it's time to highlight both the rind.. so the warm yellow parts and the pulp parts. In order to do that, it needs to dry. Of course we're using water mixable oil paint so it goes a bit faster. We'll continuing with the tin plate underneath the lemon.. it has it's own color combination. We'll be using a part of the pallet especially for the tinware. These five colors, I'm not sure if I'm using the red.. but it's 17th century way to add a little vermilion.. a very bright red.. so I brought it. Adding a bit black first to the pallet. Raw umber. Ocre. Although I will of course try to use the colored background for that. White, is definitely needed. And a bit of the bright red and we'll see.. if that will do something for us. I'll be mixing some grays.. to start painting the shape.. which is of course very difficult.. because it needs to be a nice oval shape. I need to do that inner oval. Which from my point of view goes from somewhere here. Well. that's already a bit weird. To here. So I'll now add more shade and more light.. and I'll try filling it up in between. And I now see that there is a bit too much darker gray here. If you want to see ocre.. and we of course like to see ocre because now we can use the background. I'll continue painting the plate and I'm still working on it. And it's getting darker and darker. Just in a few moments I'll be adding lights to it. It's very transparent because we're using water mixable oil paint. You can of course use real oil paint.. and the nice thing with the real oil paint.. is you don't really need do dilute it. And of course also because you've got the time.. and you can brush it on very dry. You can dilute oil paint with oil as well. Than it's a thicker substance of course then oil paint with water. What I'm doing here. I've decided not to use the red because the background is already very warm.. so you see it shining through, but you could have used it here.. in the tin plate, I think. It's a bit of a warmer tone then in the other spot. I'll now add some highlights to the peel of the lemon.. because we still need to do that. Also some reflection here, light is reflected so you see.. bright yellow in the shade. I'm using the very light yellow.. which was untouched before to add a bit of highlights here. I'm doing it a bit wobbly because of that skin of the lemon, Like that, perhaps a bit.. here and there. Like that, your lemon is really finished. And then now quickly we'll add some.. colors for the linen cloth underneath. Now with the cursor brush. Thick hair brush here. I'll add some shade. And since it's all in the same tone you can still paint pretty transparently.. because you can snot that thing if you can see the ocre shining trough. Well, the linen on the table need some more work but you get the point. And it also contrasts very nicely. The final thing to do is to add a darker background.. so that means just scumbling.. very dryly going over the ocre ground. This can again be transparent, that's fine. You need a bit of a course brush. Which you can use this way, then you add some extra dept. I'll do it here, I'm now ignoring.. the thing on which this still life is actually standing.. just to show you how it's done. And this way you work you're way up towards the light.. where you might even want to add some white to get really a beam here. That's an option.. you see it often in these 17th century still life paintings. And I think you get the point here, like I will and thank you for watching! thank you very much for this great lesson, Lisa!