- All jokes aside, when they offered me such a brilliant, charismatic, totally self-made will one day run this country. (audience member cheers) Then the Facebook guy with your bloated ass. (audience laughs) Tonight, we honor a He started with and made a fortune. That man is Fred (audience laughs and applauds) But even when you're in your mouth, hard and that's just what He was even forced into the starring in his (audience laughs) And soon, the top-rated starred a total asshole who were stupid enough In addition to Two The Apprentice was also (audience laughs) This guy has an ego. When Trump bangs a and imagines he's jerking off. (audience laughs and applauds) And now Donald, let's get to knock you down like you had destroyed - Oh my god. - I know we're here but I gotta give a shout Larry King in the (audience laughs and applauds) Larry, you know how we is. Larry is cool, but backstage and he rubbed BENGAY into it. (audience laughs and applauds) Hey yo, wassup? FYI, ain't no niggas (audience laughs and applauds) From me to you. Lisa is a stone cold freak. (audience laughs) Lisa fucked Larry King, and Billie Jean King in (audience laughs) This is an ugly business, man. I mean, look at Jeff Ross. (audience laughs) He's one ugly motherfucker. (audience laughs) Now when Jeff was born, his and when she looked down, (audience laughs and applauds) That's why he's so corny. (audience laughs) I gotta say a few more Snooki over there. (audience laughs) Oh, that ain't Snooki? Oh, my bad, I'm sorry. All white people who act (audience laughs) Hey man, stop like a prison bitch, or and get me some before I go upside your (audience laughs and cheers) Now from me to you, half of your money, you need a 20 year old's (audience laughs and groans) Now I may not have but I got twice the dick, (audience laughs) Donald's said he wants and move on into Why not? It wouldn't be the a black family (audience laughs, - Situation from You have a book out! Amazon said customers also bought a rope and a stool. (audience laughs) Donald, tonight people will Fuck 'em! You've always gotten You've disappointed more You are the ultimate good-lookin' pussy. (audience laughs) If you were broke, (audience laughs) - This is my career. It's come to this. (audience laughs) If you're just joining we're here with Lisa Lumpybelly. (laughs) Lisa is a shock comic, but (laughs) Situation has a new fragrance which is also what when you can't spell (audience laughs) To prepare for this event, about roasts. Jeff, my last (audience laughs) And unlike you, I (audience laughs and applauds) Donald Trump, without a doubt, which means it's until you bulldoze some bawdy, tacky monstrosity - Mike, you're doing You've got a ton of You've got a cologne, a I mean, you've got your except a high school diploma. You know, they say you only So this is gonna be short. (audience laughs) You know, at first, I for The Family Guy, but He's actually not famous at all. (audience laughs) Donald, you've got a You've been so happy on Saturday Night Live, (audience laughs) Donald Trump is (audience laughs) that if you look up the word there's a picture but if you look is holding up a picture (audience laughs) - [Mike] Hey, Jeff - What's up, buddy? - Jeff, me and you have - [Jeff] What's that? - We're both from it's my first (audience laughs and applauds) Well. - It's also your last (audience laughs and applauds) - As you can see, with the help of my and to be honest, I'm about my voice, by thousands of people it sounds like Whitney Cummings (audience laughs and applauds) I guess I'm the perfect because like The have never heard the (audience laughs and applauds) And of course, over roast master general, Jeff Ross. Can you believe that he I said, &quot;Jeff, I'm (audience laughs and applauds) I have to say, to be up here with an esteemed I won the Oscar and Lisa won Best in (audience laughs and applauds) Marlee, I can't do this anymore! She's an Oscar-winning I'm outta here, see you later! (audience applauds) - But can anyone Hello? (audience applauds and cheers) I will be happy to sign for (audience cheers) Ah, the Hammerstein Ballroom. Speaking of ballroom, how are those SPANX holding up? (audience laughs) Donald always says money but it can buy the best New York City has to offer! Did I get that right? (audience laughs and applauds) - Sounds good to me. - Anthony Jeselnik is on the roast. This is the first someone around Donald Trump to promise them (audience laughs and groans) People make fun They make fun of the lifting up shirt I endorse it. In fact, Mr. Situation, I even higher so that it (audience laughs and groans) Lisa Lampanelli is here. Lisa, thanks for I know you're very I Didn't Know I Was Pregnant. (audience laughs) Donald, you are gross. Nobody likes you, but you and nobody knows why. You're like the McRib. (audience laughs and applauds) Donald Trump, you are known and now I can see why. Your hair sucks. You look like Justin (audience laughs) You're obviously very rich. Donald Trump is literally which means he to fuck Lisa Lampanelli. (audience laughs) You got Melania a huge 12 You should not have Now she knows what hard (audience groans and applauds) - This is exciting, Trump. Are you having a good time? - [Trump] Good time. - All right, well, (audience laughs) Larry, I love you. You've been a great Give him some love. (audience cheers and applauds) The former hunchback of CNN. (audience laughs) His first caller was The first time Larry covered he interviewed Moses. (audience laughs) Larry asked him if he was a pyramid scheme. (audience laughs) I love Larry. He recently quit his show. He plans on spending his (audience laughs) Whitney, thanks for yelling (audience laughs) This is the first time Snoop Dogg, he's he actually had to &quot;Hey, What's My (audience laughs) The Situation is here for you. I'm looking forward (audience laughs) I heard the next season is gonna be shot in I hope that's just a sneaky (audience laughs and applauds) Donald, doesn't that you'll never as me and Snoop right now? Donald's ego is so big, masturbating, and then (audience laughs and applauds) Greg Giraldo, roast in peace. Thank you very much, (crowd cheers and applauds) (high energy music)