Greetings, friends! My name is Mykola I am the commander For those who have been watching us for a long At your request, we will explain a little more what is happening so For those who watch for the first time, Traditionally, I want to thank And for those who want to join, we Fundraiser for kamikaze drones with AI guidance The enemy has installed a lot of electronic warfare The link to the fundraiser Also become our sponsors on We have valuable gifts Friends, these flags of the &quot;TERRA&quot; unit signed by The link on Patreon is also posted So, let's get down to business. There have been certain changes in the area The kats**s decided that it is okay to drive armored vehicles here Here comes a Russian There are certain You could see interruptions Here you see them again. And now you will understand, why did they decide There is actually a Now I will show Look, friends, these silver objects on the infantry It is there so that our drone would not reach. By the Because we can fly close to target, but then By the way, you can see that this armored vehicle In order for the shaped charge ammunition would not penetrate it, Let's see what happens. I'll say a Hit on the side of IFV. Here the reconnaissance drone is confirming a You see, it starts to smoke, It will not move for long, it Part of the infantry remained inside and By the way, friends, this infantry fighting of the battalion of unmanned systems one of the best FPV crews of our battalion and Let's congratulate them Let's move on. Ivan is clearly visible. Now there will be an illustration of such a proverb: It makes even less sense to run away from the Watch how he runs away, falls, thinks maybe this will save And here on the reconnaissance from Mavic, you can see this Here he flies up to him. The ruzian is running away, falls, and FPV calmly It will be blurred on YouTube. If you want to watch it We will post a link here somewhere on the video. There is a lot of of videos. What we cannot And this Ivan decided to use He walks alone in the middle of the field, thinking that he will They often do this, try to run across the field We clearly observe him. But you understand what fate is By the way, check out the fog of war, a real But the pilot confidently flies through Here he finds him. This one is not running away. Although no, Look, at the last moment he decided Direct hit. No One and a half kilograms of ammunition, about 500 Fun fact. We researched the enemy, researched his infantry, I even saw once how one ran Will it be possible to escape from FPV drone, let's Here he runs. He has already threw away The pilot clearly observes At the last moment, Ivan decided to maneuver, but of course, there is no chance of And these are friends, I can watch it endlessly, I think It happened in the At that time, we were part of a company - They are standing right there. And where is the power line? - They are right And now the first drone - Hit? Got it? - Ah great! Hit is confirmed: one enemy is wounded - Show me, correct me, - Yes. - Perfect, we'll finish them off. They are there. - They are sitting together, right? - Yes, f*ck, he went down, wounded! At that time, even one wounded with Here you see, an FPV drone flies up, a One KIA, another But I'm sure that The ammunition was high-explosive fragmentation. It was quite far away to run for Hopped away like a bunny. And his And again we return to our The occupiers are very fond of riding and carrying Buggies, motorcycles, ATVs and this is a message for kats**s if you Motorsport is a sport for worthy Now you will see, all rusians on Look, friends, a direct hit. And it would It is smoking, the kats**s jump off, two were One crawls and It would seem thats it. Now I want to demonstrate to you the importance of the fact that There is always a certain It is better to spend one more drone, to because later at night they will pull Here &quot;Vitrolomy&quot; come in And again, an interesting nuance. Look, you see, there is some metal This is actually the electronic warfare system Actually, this is why they dared to ride on this ATV, But we did, although unfortunately Speaking of the fundraiser that we have for FPV drones Friends, donate! This thing is needed so that such boxes, electronic Direct hit. And so, friends, additional reconnaissance. You see, here we By the way, then no one Friends, I am very grateful Write if you like this format. I am very grateful to you for your support. we want to show you how much we appreciate Believe me, it is significant. Victory will Glory to Ukraine! Who will ask questions like, My hands are actually very injured, And we made the