(funky electronic music) - [Jared] This is a There's one at the end but you normally don't get to see it. In this video, we'll use a little 3D magic to help us understand how this works. My name's Jared, I create 3D animations to show and explain how things work. This video is sponsored by KiwiCo. Most commonly, the game played It's common here in the United States and in other areas of the world, but there's different that you might not know about. Nine-pin bowling, duckpin bowling, candlepin bowling, and five-pin bowling. The rules vary slightly but for this video, we're In the early 1900s, there to set up the pins. They would hire people to stand back here and reset the pins by hand and then return your bowling ball. But now, there's a better way, to do it automatically. Older pinsetter machines might than what you see here. This one's called a It's been around for about 20 years now, and it's the pinsetter of choice for the world's most Let me start off by showing of what happens to the pins. Down to the ball pit, then the pin elevator, onto the distributor, then the setting table, and then back onto the pin deck. Now, that's a quick overview, now, let's go through (subdued upbeat electronic music) Behind the pins is the This absorbs the impact Pins knocked over are sometimes The remaining pins will be lifted up and the deadwood will The pins get knocked At the bottom is the transport band. It's a conveyor belt that moves however, the bowling the gap isn't big enough. Because the transport the ball will find its way The door will wait three to just to make sure that all We don't want any bowling This is called the ball accelerator. It's shared by two lanes. Inside, there's a large, green, flat belt. This is what pushes the ball, At the front of the bowling Inside is the ball lift, with two ball lift tires. The bowling ball is up the ball lift, and So what happens to our pins now? At the back of the machine It has 14 pin shovels. These are continuously moving around to lift the bowling pins. On each side of the bottom, These guide the pins towards When the bowling pin gets The pin deflectors push and the pin-centering wedges make sure they are right in the center, ready for the next part. At the top of the elevator, There's a guide roller It follows the edge of the shovel guide. This tilts the shovel so that As it rolls off, it will (upbeat electronic music) This tells the next part of the machine that another pin is coming. This whole top part here This moves our bowling pins and efficiently. Here's the shark two crossover lanes, 10 pin stations, and two overflow chutes. You got all that? Yeah, me neither. Okay, let's break this down. Right after the pin elevator, the pin goes to the shark assembly. It gets the name because of This is how the machine sorts the pins between the left and right feed lanes. The pins are moved by conveyor belts made up of two green round belts. You'll notice on the elevator that the pins can be facing either way. The turn wedges then rotate the pin so it's always bottom-side first. (upbeat electronic music) If the pin goes to the left, it will travel through these lanes. If it goes to the right, it will travel through these lanes. On the sides of the lanes, there are 10 of them to match the 10 pins that will soon be put on the bowling lane. The left lanes have six spots and the right lanes have four spots, this is why the shark fin (subdued upbeat electronic music) If all the spots in the lane are filled, then a pin will make its It will go down to the ball pit and get picked up again by the elevator. There's usually at least 20 this makes it so that there whenever they are needed. If there's no one bowling then the distributor to save power. Okay, so we've seen the There's a mechanism under one of them. Let's get a closer look. The parts of the pin station the retaining bow, and the pin release lever. The ejector flap sticks up As the bowling pin comes it will be knocked right When that happens, it The weight of the pin causes it to rotate, which moves these gears, which then allows the This means the next pin will pass over this This happens at each pin station so that a pin can move down the lane until it finds the next open spot. The last part on the pin station When this is pressed up, it which means the bowling pin falls through. Remember that there are 10 pin stations, and this happens for most After that, each station is reset so we are ready to receive Directly below all of This is the part that on the bowling lane. There are 10 pin holders on top. You can see how a bowling with the two grippers to hold it in place. The pin holders are placed directly below the 10 pin When we are ready to receive more pins, the grippers will be opened. The setting table moves up, which will hit the retaining This will release the Let's see what this (subdued upbeat electronic music) And here's what this The pin holders on the on top of four swing shafts. These are all connected This ensures that they all When the lane is ready, and all of the pin holders Notice how the two grippers are opened, which release all of the bowling pins. The can also be configured to for example, maybe the player in difficult scenarios. In this case, when the only some of the grippers will be opened. The rest of the pins come back We've seen that the pin holders rotate, but I want to show you more There's a spring at the end here that pulls on the swing shaft, causing all of the pin Most of the time, this won't at the end here that This holds all of the pin holders in the horizontal position. When it's time to set new but everything is still held in place by the jam assembly arm. This controls the As the table comes back up, the wheel will once again which will overpower the The latch comes back on and now we're locked in the Usually, when you bowl, you it would be nice, but, you In this case, the setting table comes down and lifts the remaining pins up. How does this work? On the bottom of the setting table, you've got a metal frame, which has 10 holes for Inside, next to each hole, you'll find a pair of spotting tongs. This is what closes in (subdued funky electronic music) The spotting tongs are opened and closed by a complex gear system. It's all controlled by this (funky electronic music) One more feature of the setting table is that it helps keep score. On the bottom of each pin holder is a pin detector plate. This is how the machine finds out how many pins are left standing. The setting table comes down, then we know that the Now let's look at the sweep wagon. Each bowling lane has sensors in front. As soon as a bowling ball the sweep wagon comes down. This prevents any pins from On the side here, you'll with chains around them, we'll first focus on the smaller one. It controls the sweep crank arm. When the gear rotates clockwise, the arm moves all the way (funky electronic music) Lifting the sweep wagon is done by the sweep release assembly. If we come over here to this view, you can see that we'll need It's very interesting how this happens. The sweep release assembly is attached to the other larger gear this is all run by the same motor that raises and lowers the setting table, this happens twice. The first time, it goes counter-clockwise, the second time, it goes clockwise. All together, here's what this looks like. The first time, when the the assembly comes down, but barely misses grabbing At the same time, the to check the score and if there are any left. Then the sweep goes back and forth. Now the gear goes clockwise, at a different angle, and this time, it grabs onto the sweep wagon. (subdued funky electronic music) When that's happening, the Or in the case of a strike, Now you're ready to bowl again. At the end of the sweep release assembly is a small piece called the tipper. It can rotate back and forth. When it's time to drop the sweep wagon, the tipper will rotate. (subdued funky electronic music) This fork-shaped piece is It's what absorbs the impact Up at the top, we have the drive frame, this is made up of three motors. We have the distributor and the table motor. The distributor motor, this on the distributor, the pin and the transport band at the very bottom. The sweep motor, this runs the motion of the sweep wagon going back and forth. The table motor, this runs the raising and lowering of the setting table. This also includes the spotting tongs when they open and close. You can see now that a has many different parts to give you a good bowling experience. Many of them work at the same time to ensure that there's ready to go when you are. On my YouTube channel, I've and like this, and like this, and like this, but maybe you'll also or this, or this. These are hands-on projects from KiwiCo. The projects come in these and it has everything you and all the supplies, so you Each project teaches about so science, technology, In order to build something like a bowling pinsetter machine, you have to start small and but there's no reason you KiwiCo offers eight for the young children all Each month, a new crate is with hours of entertainment inside. The project I just built I also had a little bit of It was very satisfying when we finally completed the project. Right now, KiwiCo is offering of any crate. Just go to kiwico.com/jaredowen or click the link in the (funky electronic music)