Have you ever thought, man, I'd really like longer because I finally did! I had such 3D scanner that now has a super powerful everything! If you already have or than this video is right for you because I share results as well! Let's find out more. Guten Tag For over a year now, I wanted to do one Creality recently reached out to sponsor a I was super stoked. I love my studio yet here due to sub-optimal roof insulation. I have a inefficient one-hose units. So I wanted to convert couple of foam board panels around the condenser Since this is not all right angles and there are a I thought this is a perfect opportunity for reverse engineering. So I unscrewed the use. Have you ever used a 3D scanner for what tips can you share for getting the best Creality's Raptor is very different from consumer-grade 3D scanners. It costs almost light scanner but it also comes with one scanner at a significantly lower price Hybrid, because it can scan in conventional very expensive Blue Laser Mode. I had a ton of blown away by the ease and details of scanning sponsoring this video. If you're looking for more in the description and I also uploaded a couple Tip#1 Use the right technology: Blue Laser and NIR. But what's the right mode start with the Near Infrared Mode, which works points on your model and triangulaing their can do a 3D scan without any tracking markers geometric features. Using markers is possible but working without them is handy because you for example when I scanned my Vespa for CR-Scan Raptro also has 3 different scanfields easily scan small as well as big parts. The small ones speed up the scanning process and, especially features are usually within one shot. The laser cm but due to the very thin laser-lines that are than the same scanfield in NIR mode which becomes comes at a cost. The laser mode requires that and since the scan field is relatively small you parts. I've been using professional structured the things I wanted to highlight in this video get good results. Yet I was really blown away scanned a ton of different parts and never even the machined aluminum part or parts with a improve if you spray them but most of the time of this technology! In the end, you always need to If you want to scan people or faces, NIR is the details, NIR might still be the more efficient yet if you want to scan very detailed parts, is the way to go at the cost of the markers consumer 3D scanners only use the structured light Tip #2 Use enough markers: this may be a bit overkill, I wanted to scan the do is to attach these retroreflective points to align the individual frames that are generated the 3D model. For a bigger part like my AC, you scanning because we need at least 4 overlapping of the scans properly works. The thing that is placement. The scanner resolves its position in so the placement should be random. For smaller ton of points attached so I don't use and waste a with a magnet that I can place around the part. awesome videos around 3D scanning and who designed recognized if you look at them perpendicularly, the ones on the scanning table might not be so you don't lose tracking as easily. And they also place them on bigger parts and since they Tip #3 Use the proper hardware: needs power from a wall adapter, and requires Scan. Due to the amount of data that's being for that. I initially started with my travel and I really struggled to get a smooth scanning quadrupled my FPS and I got a flawless scanning on the desk using my editing workstation the software. So make sure your hardware is also Tip # 4 Use the right resolution for your project: that you want to use. I started in the blue You should always select a resolution adequate data that's being generated. So, if you have a big Smaller resolution doesn't necessarily mean worse And then it was time for scanning. As soon the lasers turn on, and you can start scanning. the 7 lines that are projected on the part, so surface. The scanner should always have an optimal as indicated by the bar on the left but also by handy if you don't want to constantly focus on If it's blue, you're too close, green is you're too far away. Depending on the amount of loose tracking and stop recording data, so you from there. Scanning itself is really quick, the back of the AC. Scanned areas usually not enough data available for the resolution your part until most of the surfaces turn green, After finishing the scan the data needs to directly generate an stl model as we know it a surface if we zoom out enough, a 3D scan of points called a point cloud that needs to be all the parts that I didn't need for my design the AC as well as part of the frame. This processed and just makes everything faster. which fits regularly spaced points over our point but you can tweak them a little depending on the you can further remove some unwanted data and then mesh over the points that you can then export as scanner wasn't able to pick up points and Creality they are small enough. "Closure" even allows necessary for 3D printing, yet this is, of course, doesn't make sense or is even necessary for the the true details of the scan, which you can see up a ton of details even though I didn't use the we'll do a high-resolution scan in a bit. The on this and many of my other scans was a slight subtle and can even be smoothed out with further imported into any current CAD software to be So I first aligned my scan within Autodesk with the 125 mm hose adapter and small installed. Using the scan as a reference was hopefully on the first print. I then and started printing it in PETG. This took over able to scan it to check for dimensional accuracy resolution of 3D scanners in general Tip #5 Understand the difference A specification people always look for when Yet many mix them up or even think they mean of details a scanner can capture, specifically the is the measure of how closely the scanned data that with the nozzle size of a 3D printer. The can print, but your motion system or your steps/mm of details but wrong dimensions. If your motion nozzle, you're able to print dimensionally The Creality Raptor is advertised as having doesn't say a lot and is PR talk, there is consumer grade 3D scanners over for example the is that they scan to size. A photogrammetry scan need to size it to have proper dimensions. calibrated using calibration plates. These which look very similar to our scan markers. on paper or on a bit of acrylic the Crealitys glass. This makes it very stable in size due to these dots are measured very precisely in factory So in regular intervals, you're required to this calibration plate at different angles, which the line laser, and even the IR projectors But how accurate is for example the Creality common way in 3D scanning is using a calibration a bar in the middle. You can purchase these ball very precisely the distance between the center of a very crude DIY version with two 10mm ball I can measure the outer distance with my calipers to calculate the distance between the centers, my DIY ball bar with the Raptor, and exported which is an amazing software to analyze 3D GOM in 2019. Yet with a bit of a google search and 2019 installers. Anyways, within the tool bearings and measure the distance between them. orientations and the measured centerdistances maximum deviation of 3 hundreds of a mm per 100 makes it in my opinion very usable for reverse But how about resolution? I did most resolution mode which is well enough for scanned this machined aluminum part for a marks on the final stl and it's well-usable If you increase the resolution even more, you with the blue laser scanner yet this will you can see on the scan. This Euro coin was resolution in laser mode which looks incredible Tip # 6 Multi Orientation Scanning: was when I scanned a DUPLO toy of my daughter. amount of details at that size was impressive. I and it was perfectly compatible with existing one take because you can only capture what the parts is often just not visible in the first scan everything another time. For the horse, and one on the right. These are all processed If the overlapping areas are big enough and sections. If it struggles, you can do it manually Sometimes, especially on rather flat parts, bottom and top side. The edge might have enough enough to put the scans at the right distance. glance but don't have the proper thickness. This part. With only two scans the thickness was way results thoroughly and even take some reference simple because we only need an additional scan by placing the part on its side, so I have a merging or better the alignment of the scans the aluminum part, but also for example on Tip #7 Secure Your Parts: is key to do complete scans of complex parts. you place the part on the most stable surface. orientations where the subject can wobble around. geometry tracking that not a huge problem. table which already has tons of markers the part has a fixed position and orientation the individual scans won't line up. To solve daughter that I place under my part making around. If you have flat parts I often even between the part and the table so it's easier Tip #8 Create artificial features: and we have the Playdough at hand it's worth support material. If you like or need to work to scan a bigger part or you don't want to use of features for tracking, you can create some blobs of modeling clay around and on software doesn't lose tracking on featureless or crumbled-up painters tape is another great and you won't be able to capture the geometry at better than no scan at all. And if you need to to just place the tape somewhere else, scan On Creality's Scanners, this will unfortunately software. Creality Scan has come a long way regularly release updates and add features. which is very relevant for multi-orientation optimization algorithm. You might have of the scans that I did, and this is not Scan will always bend up the outer edges of or straight part. This is super systematic, can one of the main reasons holding them back from have to call this out and hope that they fix this this edge away after you ran the optimization The other option is post-processing the Meshmixer or Blender, yet of course, that's Tip #9 Prepare your surface: the things I find most amazing about the Raptor in without any preparation. One of the chapters I with scanning sprays but is that now obsolete. without surface preparation, even this transparent better results if you prepare your surfaces. or even self-cleaning sprays to remove shine and matte finish. Even the laser mode benefits from I spray them before scanning, both on shiny and even a bit pickier with surface you'll often get a little. And better results also mean better Tip #10 Measure your 3D scans: good day the air intake cover for the AC finally glance and also fit the AC perfectly. This helpful to get a part first-time-right! Yet on the unit were really warped. This is pretty because they lack stiffness to self-support. part in PETG and would even be worse in ABS for sure that this is still within your tolerances great application of 3D scanning and something 3D So I put the cover on my desk and started scanning in geometry tracking mode so I added markers, has a somehow consistent wall thickness, I only exported the STL. We already used GOM Inspect in free. So I imported the scan as well as our they don't match in their position, so we need to alignment which was easily able to move the scan the difference between the two models which in edges of over 6 mm, which is really significant. because it isn't a critical feature but it could you can check this yourself - if you have a 3D our nominal geometry in the opposite direction of perfect part after the print. If you're interested works perfectly well and finally keeps my studio If we are already within GOM Inspect I also wanted which is measuring dimensions within a scan. accuracy of 3D scanners, but you can do much more won't go into details, because GOM Inspect you can create fitting elements around features them to check angles or distances. This can parts or getting measurements from features And there you have it! I hope I was able to tips all around 3D scanning with common consumer more popular these days. For my part, I love Raptor and started scanning everything - continues working on their software. Thanks and if you want to check out the Raptor you ever used a 3D scanner, and what is the