- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [upbeat rock music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Dr. Paul Conti. Dr. Conti is a psychiatrist who did his training at and then went on to be chief resident at Harvard Medical School. He now runs the Pacific Premier Group, which is a collection of focusing on solving including trauma, addiction, personality, and psychiatric disorders. Today, we discuss trauma in detail and the therapeutic process in detail. For instance, we discuss what is trauma? How do you know if you have trauma? Dr. Conti shares with us, for instance, that not every experience is necessarily traumatic and yet many people might have trauma without even realizing it. We also talk about the for instance, how to pick a therapist, how to best approach and how to evaluate whether or not therapy and your relationship to the We also talk about self that not everyone has access And we talk about drug therapies, for instance, antidepressants, We talk about alcohol, cannabis, ketamine and the psychedelics, And we talk about the clinical use of MDMA and what the future of that looks like. The reason for bringing is because I see him as the person who has the greatest and most trauma, drug therapies, talk therapies, and how self therapy and work for both healing and growing Dr. Conti is also the author entitled &quot;Trauma: The Invisible Epidemic, How trauma works and how That book describes trauma and its many features and many tools, some of which we discuss So whether or not you have trauma or not, by the end of today's episode, you will have a much deeper understanding about what trauma is. In fact, I'm confident into whether or not whether or not people close and the various paths to from trauma that we can all take. As you'll soon learn Dr. Conti is an exceptional communicator into the trauma and therapeutic process that I know that all Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that from my teaching and It is however, part of my desire and to consumer information about science and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is ROKA. ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are of the absolute highest quality. The company was founded by from Stanford and everything about ROKA eyeglasses and sunglasses was designed with performance in mind. I spent a lifetime working and I can tell you that our with a lot of different challenges. For instance, when you to a brightly lit area, your eyes in your brain for you to be able to see clearly. ROKA, eyeglasses and sunglasses were designed with the biology So you never notice those transitions. They're very seamless. You always see things The other terrific thing about ROKA eyeglasses and sunglasses is Most of the time, I can't even remember I wear readers at night sometimes in the daytime when it is very brighter If you'd like to try ROKA go to roka.com, that's roka.com and enter the on your first order. Again, that's roka.com and enter the code Huberman at checkout. Today's podcast is also brought Inside tracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that our immediate and long-term health can only be measured and assessed And nowadays with the we can also get insight our biological age and to our chronological age. And of course, despite what our birthday it is our biological If you're going to get blood you need to be able to interpret the data. And that's really where A lot of companies will give They'll send you values of etcetera, but you don't know InsideTrackeris a very So when you get the numbers back, you can click on any of the or out range, too low, too high, etcetera, and it will direct you towards so lifestyle factors, nutritional tools, supplement tools, etcetera, that can help you bring those numbers into the ranges that are best for you, which is really an exceptional tests and DNA tests really If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman any of InsideTracker's plans. That's inside tracker.com/huberman Today's episode is also Blinkist is an app that has condensed down to just 15 minutes each of key takeaways that you to extract the most important I love reading physical books, literally physical hard copies of books. And I like listening to audio books. However, I also like to revisit books that I've read or listened to, and sometimes I just want or the key takeaways from a book that I've never read or listened to. Blinkist is terrific for all of that. For instance, when researching one of the books that I is Matt Walker, professor &quot;Why We Sleep,&quot; I've read that book, but then I wanted to also make sure that I hit the key takeaways. Blinkist was essential for that. Other books that I've read before and that I own and enjoy, but I listened to the Blinkist are things like Tim or Tim Ferris's The 4-Hour Chef book, both of which are excellent or Nassim Taleb's &quot;The Black Swan&quot; and there are many other titles as well. Blinkist is also a great way to finally get through many of the books that you've been meaning to read, but haven't had time for. With Blinkist, you get or listen to a massive library of condensed non-fiction books. Right now, Blinkist has a special offer just for our Huberman If you go to blinkist.com/huberman, you can get a free seven day trial and get 25% off a Blinkist That's Blinkist spelled B-L-I-N-K-I-S-T, blinkist.com/huberman to get 25% off and a seven day free trial. And now for my discussion Paul, thank you so much - Thank you so much for having me. - I've been looking forward to this and I've received a ton about therapy, about how to assess arc of problems and addressing familial issues and relationship If we could just start off very basic and just get everyone oriented. - Sure. - How should we define trauma? We all have hard experiences. Some of them, we might but what is trauma? - To make the definition relevant, I think we have to look at that happens to us, right? But something that then leaves us different So it changes the way that And then that changes evident in us as we move forward through life. - So how do we know if I've heard before everyone has trauma. For instance, I've heard that if we are a child and we request love from from a parent, if they dismiss us that is that overstating or unfair Do we all have trauma? What are micro traumas? What are macro traumas? - Right, I think traumas that we might categorize Or things that are are negative, but not deeply impactful, I think is not a helpful I think the helpful definition to the magnitude of really that we can see both in how we behave. We can see it in mood, anxiety, behavior, sleep, physical health. So we can identify it and we can also see it in brain changes. So the fact that we become, say more hypervigilant, right? More vigilant, and then we can see that are more active. So that definition, that definition captures how trauma, if it rises to a certain trauma that makes a post Leaves us different, I think is the helpful because it's a clinical definition, right? It's changes in us as people and we can map those changes to identifiable shifts - So how do we know if we've I mean, I can think where some kid on the playground or in the classroom said something, I didn't like, something I think most people can do that. We have a great memory for the kid that said something awful, or the parent or teacher that really felt like it hurt So clearly one's brain, my brain in this example has been changed by that event such that I remember it, but how do we know if something has actually changed the way that we are? Because of course we don't - Right, right. - That's difficult, right. It's doable, but it's so if the trauma rises to the and I don't just mean, like So we can have memories of something that was negative, right? And in that sense, it changes the brain because now there's something we can call to mind, but it doesn't change the If trauma rises to the level of changing the functioning of our brains, then there's almost always around the trauma that can lead us and often leads us to bury, To feel that now there's and it feels shameful or it feels like no one So, what happens is people tend to avoid looking at the change in them, which is exactly the opposite of what needs to be done, right? The idea of in a viral pandemic, right? We want to stay away from one But with the trauma epidemic we need, we need to communicate with other people. We need to communicate and inside of us. And very often a, a person knows, I mean, I've done so much clinical that has focused on trauma. And a lot of the times But they're not admitting to themselves because they're afraid of it, right? They don't know what to do, then they'll talk about It could be something acute, or it could be something chronic, that really has been And then they feel different afterwards. Like, oh, after that, I started thinking differently, but that doesn't always happen. Sometimes it's a process of exploration through dialogue, right? Whether it's written of the person, so of exploring the changes maybe changes to their self-talk inside, changes to their thoughts about the world and whether they can navigate safely and readily in it. And you know, it anchors the example I'll use at times where, you know, when I was much younger in my early twenties, my younger brother took And the response of guilt and shame and hiding all of it inside of me was, it's very dramatic, but I wasn't acknowledging it, right? 'Cause I didn't know what to do about it. And I felt guilty and I felt So there was an avoidance inside of me. And then I wasn't saying to like you thought that and you could make your way in the world. And you know, if you were a you could make a difference, right? And then afterwards, I The world's against me. And I felt like, oh my, And you know, I was like 24 years old, right? So, I didn't see that but I was taking care of myself poorly. Like there was enough that I couldn't avoid the I'm different now and in My reflex to, can I make Can I have a good life? Can I be happy? My reflex is to that we're all different. And they were coming through heightened vigilance, a sense of guilt, a sense of shame and a in the world and was ultimately good and and my own realization. And hey, things are not going well, right? That led me to then get some help and to be able to talk about it and realize like, oh my gosh, I need to face these things that are going on inside of me. - From a psychoanalytic psychological, and maybe even a neuroscience Why do you think that these things that we call Everything you're telling that's not adaptive. - Hmm. - [Paul] Why would we be built that way? - Right, right. - So that's the first question. And then the second question is, how should we conceptualize I think that we hear guilt. We hear shame. How should we think about it? I mean, those emotions must but in this case, it seems like they, they don't serve us well. So maybe it that order what is guilt, really? What is shame really? And why is it that we seem to feel guilty and feel opposite of what we need to - Right, right. No, I think these are great questions. And I don't think anyone But my read of all of that adaptive that has happened in us through evolution that in the way we live in So if you think of through people weren't living that long, right? And the idea was to survive and reproduce. So, traumatic things that happened to us, it would make sense for So if you ate a new food and got really, really sick, you better If you see someone from a couple miles away, right? And one of those people It's like, you better remember that. So, the traumatic things that are sort of emblazoned in our brain are built to last, right? Things that are positive will generate some emotion inside of us, but things that are profoundly negative are much more likely to stay with us. And I think that that was adaptive, right? When all of that was And I think the same thing is So I think here, it makes and actually I'm interested That the limbic system, right? So the system often is called In our brains has actually of course varying function, right? And one aspect is affect, right? So affect is aroused in us, which I think the meaning then is it's created in us So if we're walking down the road and someone jumps in front Then there's a response Heart starts beating faster, more blood to the muscles, we're getting ready to fight, right? Or run, right? And then we become aware of it, right? So, the aroused affect in and it has a very deep impact upon us and shame is an aroused affect. So it can be raised in and it's very powerful, which if you think about that is an extremely strong deterrent, right? So if you had, you know, imagine a tribe or a That are sheltered someone eats half the food And like there's a very And that person feels shame to control behavior, right? So the way that trauma and stay with us in a way look at the world in a different way, act more defensively, right? And how that links to shame and to guilt, and then guilt in, guilt becomes what gets where we relate the aroused So, shame the aroused affect and guilt, the next step, right? When the shame gets related behavioral interventions That you can see, I think how evolutionarily if we're fighting for survival and we're an elder statesman This makes sense. But it doesn't make sense in a world where we live much longer, right? We navigate in all And there's so much coming at I mean, if you think I mean, how many times have for someone that says no more news, right? - You've actually written - Oh, yes, yes. So glance at the news, anything going on I need to know, right? But what are people doing is looking at it and they're clicking and they're clicking. And there's a sense of in a very frightening way with the horrors that are in front of us. And it shows how yes, trauma can come through acute Trauma can come through chronic whether it's based upon immigration status, race, religion, sexuality, gender identity, these Of being denigrated by or treated as less than But vicarious experiences can too, right? And we know this is not theoretical. We know that the changes in the brain can come from vicarious experiences too, which is why people who and then feeling like, oh my goodness, like what is happening? The mothers in the Ukraine who've lost babies in the war. And like, there are things that if we spend so much time with that, it has a similar effect. So our brains are built but not in the way we experience trauma and not in the way that we live life in terms of the nature of living life and the duration of life where these traumas that happen to us are often so bad for us because they change how And then our entire orientation to the world is different and that could be for, years and years and decades and decades. It brings so much misery and suffering and at times it brings death. If you think about a hundred in this country in a year, 100,000, I mean where is a, so much of that arising from addiction very intensively I think that, well, I feel sure that the majority of addiction that I see and treat arises, ultimately the roots of it are to soothe something that's isn't letting outside because but it's running around in their head and tormented by it. And now there's a pool for, for these drugs or sometimes So, the opiates that were given after Are like, okay, yeah, they help the pain for the minor surgery, but what they're really helping But that very quickly turns And we see that over and over again and not in a theoretical way. Like I see that in people with addiction, arising from trauma who have subsequently died. So it's sort of, writ in the modern world. - Incredible to me that What I mean by that is this idea that I've heard about before. I think it was a Freudian concept of a repetition compulsion. - Yes. - That this is what boggles my mind, as I'm hearing this, something happens to us or we And instead of acknowledging that and trying to distance from it, there seems to be a in many cases and stuffing it away and then a repetition of behaviors to continue to try and just stuff it away. - [Paul] Yes. - Like you're trying recently I was packing a home bag back into the bag. it seems like it's always this kind of thing. It takes a lot of ongoing effort. And at the same time that this repetition compulsion, people will return over and over again to the kinds of scenarios of emotional states that - [Paul] Yes. - Or resemble it in some way. So the question I have for you is, is the repetition compulsion a real thing? And why would we be wired that way? My understanding of this compulsion is that we all - [Paul] Yes. - And it allows us to put macro versions of that We get to run the - Right. - In an attempt to solve it. - Right. - In the case of taking a drug that it's clear certain it's clear how that would not allow us, to deal with it, right? - [Paul] Yeah. - It's just masking the emotional state. But why is it for instance that somebody who experiences sexual trauma, then places themselves into circumstances of more sexual trauma? Why is it that somebody who goes on to have a second and or physically abusive relationship? Yeah, I mean, on the that makes no sense. And yet we see this over - Yes, the first thing I would say about the validity of the repetition compulsion concept, right? Is a strong yes. Like, yes, we see that over and over. It's not necessarily in everyone, but boy, it is in a lot of people And I think there's a very on the surface of it, it's But then if we think, how does our brains We're sort of trained at I think, to think of ourselves That like, oh, we're logical. And ultimately everything in And if we think about it enough, we're going to understand how which is completely not true, right? The limbic system, right? The emotion system so always Trump's logic, right? If you think about, does it ever make sense to I mean, logic says no, right? But if someone you love is people run right in, right? Because the limbic system says, yes. So when logic and emotion emotion wins all the time. If emotion is powerful enough, it will always win. And so the limbic system is system does not care about the And that's the answer. And also, say why to the repetition compulsion. So the limbic system doesn't know like, oh, it's now, it's today. It's may, it's 2022. It just doesn't care at all, right? So how I would relate that is when people are repeating, what they're trying to do is With the idea that if we and make it right, it will Which makes perfect sense if we think, well, where is that It's coming from the that wants relief from and does not understand So if I can solve something now, I will also solve something Which is why I can't I've sat with someone and say, we're starting to do therapy, right? And a person will say, oh you just can't help me, right? I mean, you know, my last seven relationships And I'll say back something if you tell me that you've that have been abusive in different ways, I'll agree with you. Like, I only say that, 'cause that's never what But I think what you're going the same relationship seven times. It's not seven things, it's one, right? And that's always, I that has failed to be the case. And that's how, so if you think about it, that's how we start to So they make the light bulb that goes off. Like I have not had seven I have had one that I and now we start getting and what needs to happen, that person needs to face abusive relationship and it always comes down to of the person feeling terrified while the abuse was going on, feeling guilty, feeling they brought it on themselves. They deserve it. They don't deserve anything better, right? Because the brain is trying Or I thought I could make that And then there's more And if that's stuck inside of someone, like that's bundled up inside of someone, like a medical abscess inside a person, a walled off infection inside the body, this is the same concept in the brain, then of course the limb system And it fixes it by trying to and make it right this I think that one of the best examples of how the right approach of let's talk about that, right? What's really going on there, and ashamed is the person who is a abused or the person who is abusing, right? And we can get it what's And that's what changes that. And then the eighth relationship than the first seven, right? And I see that all the time. I mean, this isn't esoteric or soft. Like I see that play out And why do things get better? Because we go to the It's not hidden inside where We bring it to the surface and we can take away its power. - I keep hearing in this narrative that so much of our both emotional and in the of behaviors is about to change the past. - Yes. - And in fact, in an offline conversation, I recall you saying the number of behaviors of behaviors and avoidance of thoughts that human beings put in to trying and change the past. - [Paul] Right. - Is remarkable and eerie and maladaptive, it sounds like. - [Paul] Yes. - And that really stuck with me because I think we all want of our future and how And to some extent, it There's this thing that it evokes some internal arousal what to do with that arousal. And I think for many people, including myself, there's Okay, the thought about the plural, evokes this arousal, this internal states, makes some people feel sleepy and exhausted. Other people feel really anxious. Other people feel angry. I mean that arousal has all as you know, and then there's this question - [Paul] Yes. And I'd love to hear a maybe even just a top contour prescriptive of I'll even just put myself So I'm feeling upset about something. Should I feel like my options I could tell the story, feel it. I could. I can pack it down. We hear that it's bad to pack it down. But of course one has and deal with things. And we have responsibilities at work and relational responsibilities, etcetera. We need to sleep at night. So catharsis, healthy catharsis, packing it down at the other extreme. Telling the story. And yet I think a lot of people because in that telling there is perhaps a - Yes. - The arousal can become greater, I mean. - Yes. - Is that what people mean when they say things are going to get I mean, so I guess, the simple version of this it's clear we need to We can't change the past by, a reflexive response isn't And so how do we deal with arousal? How does one take what they feel inside about something shameful? What do you do with it in a moment? And does that have to be done trained therapist or in the morning and something comes up, I can't deal with this what do I do? Do I deal with it right then? I know this is a big - Yes. - But I think it's the one that a lot of people grapple with. We want to deal with things. How do we deal with that internal arousal? - Yeah, yeah. We so often try and change in order to control the future and what that really adds up dominates our present, right? And it doesn't have to be that way. And remember, we're talking about traumas that rise to the level So as you're saying, that involves re-experience, increased arousal. It changes in mood states, changes in anxiety, changes in sleep, changes in behavior. So these are all changes that in a sense, push towards dominating And then we're not really As we're trying to control the future. We're not going to do a great if we're not really living And so the way to come at if we're saying, okay, in the moment, if I need to fall asleep, right? I might say, okay, let me try Let me try and thought redirect. So there's short term functional in the But the answer is to go look Look at that trauma, explore That can be done with a professional. And sometimes that's what makes sense, but not always, right? Sometimes it can be done by talking to another person, right? Writing it down, right? Look at what's going on inside of me, that my mind is so stuck to this. Let's explore that because we're so afraid, so often of looking at the that we'll look anywhere. But at that, right? It's like hidden in a closet and we'll shine the light everywhere else, but we're not going to open that door. And that's where people will say that same And I myself have thought if I talk about that, I'm going to start crying Or I'm going to just fall apart, right? Which is never what happens. No one ever starts crying What ends up happening is when the person puts It could be in writing, it could be talking to a trusted other or with a therapist, right? Things start to change. I mean, just the fact that you can put words to it and other people don't recoil, right? I mean, how many times has someone said something for the first time, right? And when they're telling there's such an anxious, like looking like as if I'm going to be, I'm going to recoil from it, right? Meaning I'm going to And then there's a sense of well, you know, I was abused by this coach when I was a kid, right? And there's not a, okay, there's not a response of recoiling. You can see the change and Like, I can't believe like you can like, hear me say that and I mean, so you think about Like how, what a sense this is something awful about and it's just not true, but here's where trauma And it's pervasive, right? Because if that convinces us then how do we explore it? That example of the person who says, okay, I was abused by a coach I mean, I'm thinking of a People that I've taken care of. And once they start talking about it, then they start talking about how, , they were just innocent kids, right? And like, they didn't know. And like, they really where this coach was And now they can look at They can look at themselves like they would look You think it's so easy for us if it's someone else, right? If you ask someone, what do you think of someone who's abused and manipulated And you say, oh my goodness, I feel compassion for that person, right? But if it's us right then, oh no, it's guilt and shame and And when the person starts looking at it, they can sort of see it from the outside. And it starts to take the Then, well, who should Who's done something wrong? And like, so now the which is often a reflexive, Oh, I did it. I went back to it. I still stayed on the team. I went back next season, right? I let it happen again, right? All the guilt and shame inside the person gets juxtaposed to like, And then they say, right. I was a terrified child, right? I didn't understand at all. And they can come to And now we are working And if the person cries about I mean, crying is one of the best coping mechanisms we have. It doesn't hurt us. And it lets us grieve things. Yeah, we can't grieve if there's guilt and shame inside of us, it just blocks grief, right? We have to, there has to be a clean slate in a sense in order to feel sadness. And then you see that it and frustration, usually the guilt and shame towards, towards being able to process to bear some compassion the negative emotions, so to speak where they're the changes that happen. I mean, it's not like people But it's remarkable how and having like one hour like what we're talking about now can leave a person - It seems to me in hearing this, that there's this weird because what I'm hearing is or we observe them, what we need to do most and the emotions around that directly. - [Paul] Yes. But instead our system - [Paul] Yes. - And trying to hide it. - [Paul] Yes. And this repetition into things similar to those traumas. Or even maybe even worse traumas. - [Paul] Yes. - In an attempt to resolve it. It's like the most maladaptive. - [Andrew] Wiring diagram. I could possibly think of. - Yes. - Emotional and presumably physiological wiring diagram. - [Paul] Yes. And this notion of trying to change the past by doing things now, when the exact opposite is also seems like the complete, the whole system seems And I'm, I'm chuckling as I say this, not because I'm amused it's again at how our wiring can But it raises an, what I think is an important which is earlier, you people will seek out media They'll traumatize and on a daily basis. So that could be viewed as or the person will have with seven different, same abusive relationship in sequence seems terrible. And yet, as I say this, it also is becoming clear like a poor, but desperate attempt to resolve it in some way. - Yes. - And so the fork in the road, is to really get to the seed incident, really get to the thing as opposed to repeating it all. - [Paul] Yes. - Does that have to be done in Is there a benefit to about these things, if that's what's necessary if that's what comes up? The reason I ask it this I'll just speak to my own experience, I worry that in reactivating or touching into the that is itself a form of because you're feeling it all over again. - [Paul] Right. - You're not seeking out So I realize this is a little bit of a circular argument, right? Or question. But I think it's one that in trying to parse all the, the outcome based and the recommendations that people make. I mean, how should we conceptualize this? Something happens. Sounds like we need to deal Do we need to do that with somebody else? Can we do that on our own? If we're, we don't have resources and can't hire someone, can't - [Paul] Right. - How do we do that in a way that isn't retraumatizing ourself in a major way, or in a minor way. How do we know where we - Right. Again, those are, I And I think it starts When things are bouncing often, it's very, non-productive right? It's the same thing over and over again, and that's not helpful for us, right? So there's an idea which sometimes gets called an observing ego, right? The ability to stop and look at what's going on inside of ourselves. And so if we're just thinking about it and we're thinking in the same way, we sort of, in a sense, then all we're doing is But if we can distance I'm interested in what's I can think of a certain person who really loves music. I mean, and at some point I learned like she was taking long drives, but the, the radio wasn't on. And I was like, well, what what's going on, right? And I asked, and what was going on and over again in her head, like, I'm a loser, I'm a loser, right? And she didn't want the music drown out what she felt she And it was that like, wow, And then her ability to why am I doing that when Like, what does that trace to, Like I say, you know, I'm saying it for a point nobody comes out of the womb programmed to think I'm a loser, right? So we don't think that So where does that come from? Then, we can think in ways that allow us to have new thoughts, right? That we weren't having, It's not just bouncing And if we speak or write, there are even more mechanisms that come online in our brains, right? That are then sort of We think in a different way, And we are better able often like what's going on inside of me? So it can be very helpful to think, it can be helpful to talk to someone, to a trusted other, you clergy to write, I mean, these are things that can be done without expending any resources, right? And sometimes it can make It was a way, when did And like, interestingly, we did it in therapy, but it became very clear what And then in the therapy, which was still relatively young, but we'd done several sessions and we weren't talking at all about what we needed to talk about, right? But that's what got us to And when did that start, and now we're in that same and what was the reflex to it and the sense of guilt and sense of shame. And it's where all of that came from that just got boiled down Which this person didn't Like, I didn't think about And that's is so interesting, right? That our memories don't in it's like they're flat And they're colored in by the emotions that we attach to them, right? So, the idea that certain memories now, before the trauma were changed, right? By the trauma. So I tell the story, sometimes of a person when they were in high oh my gosh, like it shows, like I can do it, right? I get out there, that after trauma, they saw the award with the That was like, oh, it was given to me and And almost it was mocking. Like, it was going to be the and I was 17 or so, and to that's not how they felt It's the trauma that the internal state going forward and talking about miraculous also changed that going backward, right? And when we can really look at that, like where did that come from? And we can start So in those cases, you to have a good therapist, And it certainly, it's not So we need other strategies. And some of those, I write about some of those in the book of how can we sort of get at trauma without those formalized mechanisms. And sometimes if the symptoms like we really do need to who can help us get to And there's so many times, that's the answer to what's People I've seen have had I'm not exaggerating this, for substance reasons, and no one's ever taken And then when you take a well, that's obviously where Like that's when the drug the negative self talk that led to the drug use. Then you go after the trauma and you can change things. Whereas trying to change introspecting, talking about the trauma, I think of course was futile. - Do you think that people can start to have negative fantasies? I mean, you mentioned this woman who would take these long I'm not familiar with that, but I'll, I'll give a little bit of I've felt several times in my life that I will start to create a narrative about something that truly hasn't happened about something terrible - [Paul] Yes. - That's going to upset me. - [Paul] Yes. - And for the longest time, I wonder why am I doing this? And I have a couple ideas about why, one, is that I was attempting about other things. It's just, you know, anger is such an attractive emotional force in this. It's an attracting, it's not attractive. We don't like it. And yet, oftentimes anger is a great way to replace feeling something else. - [Paul] Yes. - Feeling sad or having to come up or to do work or to do something useful. So it has this kind of a like That was one idea. The other idea was in imagining then actually that relationship were, could actually seem a - Hm hm. - [Andrew] It's almost like - Yes. It's like, oh, well And then the third possibility but it seemed like a reflex. And I spent some time thinking about it. I can't say I've resolved it completely, but why would somebody have a narrative or a default or when walking of I'm just and think about how terrible or how someone's going to upset me or harm me or how terrible I am. It seems, again, like maladaptive wiring. And yet I have to assume - Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think there are three factors there and they're all bad. And I think you spoke to at They I think speak so powerfully to how insidious trauma brain changes inside of us. So I would say that the avoidance and control, right? So the trauma inside of us, that makes guilt and shame. So often, so often leads to a desire to punish oneself, right? And the idea that, oh, that was my fault. Or I deserve that. Well, what do we do if something is someone's fault and someone now deserves punishment, right? I mean, we we punish them, right? We send 'em to jail, we We punish them. And so what, what we do is And if we tell ourselves we're a loser or this awful thing is Then part of what we're see, right, you deserve that. You're not going to have It's a negative. It's a very negative to make us in a sense, to do better by hurting that we couldn't and weren't expected to control The second is distraction. As you said, anger, that kind of fantasy can distract us from affect feeling and emotion. That can be much more negative. Anger, it can be more gratifying than certainly than guilt or shame, although guilt or shame can But if anger is directed also then it can serve punishment too. So punishment, avoidance, and the sense of control to something awful, that you're imagining is going to happen, well, maybe that will I mean, you can see the really confused. I mean, part of the brain wants to punish. part of the brain doesn't and part of the brain And then how all of that resolves, if we're not aware that, hey, this is in the context of our brains being deeply impacted by trauma. So what's going on here 'Cause these negative they may help us feel better but they don't help us make They don't help us make anything better. So this is kind of the sequela. This is where trauma and that happens after trauma And you can see how we get lost, how I've seen over and in the lives of other people, how man we get stuck in those situations and that's why I see people sometimes. This has been going on for And it's just been going on because there's no natural Unless we, we look at it in a different way, that we have knowledge and this isn't the way it has to be. Let me bring a novel perspective to this. It doesn't change on its own. - I'm struck by your statement that these thoughts or behaviors but they don't actually In that way, this mode of imagining terrible outcomes starts to immediately You feel better in the moment, but it doesn't actually And it probably makes things worse. - Yes. - And just a question of how much worse and in what direction, yes. And so I just want to just because I think that concept but doesn't make anything better. I think it answers an earlier question about what seems to be a totally We need to confront the thing, but we don't want to go into So it's a knife edge there, to navigate through trauma. - [Paul] Yes. - Working with a very skilled I think is the ideal And of course there are people from somebody, for whatever reason. You've talked about journaling. - Hmm, yes. - As a useful tool. Could you maybe highlight some of the other things that And then I'd also like to talk about what makes for a good therapist. What should people look for for those that are seeking therapy, especially nowadays when a lot of therapy is being done remotely, but let's just call them self-generated or zero cost sorts of things, journaling being the first and then what are some of the others and what kind of structure someone put around journaling, carry a journal around all as they come up or sit down and spend an hour writing for instance. - Yeah. If I could add something before the question, right? That we have these short-term coping mechanisms in us, right? And in a way it makes sense, right? If we find ourselves in then a short-term coping mechanism can get us through them, right? So our brains are built that way and that's part of survival too, right? And whether now in the modern it's drugs, it's sex, it's alcohol, right? Or it's negative thoughts, right? This is short-term soothing. Even the negative thoughts, And anger is short-term soothing at the expense of long-term change, right? And that's where addictive And that's where, again, our, how we're built doesn't help us, you know, in Like we haven't lived this way throughout, 99.9% something percent So we're not adapted to this. So I want to just make a point of saying that about the short-term soothing at the expense of any of long-term change, And then the question you had or what can we do that's I think the hallmark of it has to be bringing new eyes to it, right? Like thinking about self with a curiosity, instead of just a simple Like, why am I thinking about this? When did this start? Why is this in me? Right? Whether it's words or that's so important. So I think for journaling, it depends on the person. I mean, we don't want a journal all day, if then there's a compulsion to, I need to write about everything that's going on in my mind, right? Like that might be good to okay. Write a little bit at night, right? Or someone who might think, sometimes this really comes and it could be unpredictable, right? I want to have the journal with me. So, ah, that thing is back in my mind now, let me write about it, right? Because then putting words to it and then being able to And when people read, even do a little bit of journaling and they read like, oh, I thought again about who can't have a good life, because I was in such a bad car accident or because that person attacked me or because when I was in school, I was bullied because I looked different than everyone else, right? Or acted different from everyone else. Wow, to actually see that written out. It's a little bit of that, it's a little bit of that. Like when you're saying it to someone as if it were someone else, right? Because now there's Like I'm looking at the That we get some distance some of the, not just the compassion, but integrating compassion Of like, okay. I feel a sense of compassion What really happened here, right? And gosh, I did start thinking I started, that's where That's why I'm saying this, it's those kind of through again, the written or spoken word. And I think again, that or writing, right? And I think that those where we bring some de novo that often has been bouncing And it's amazing to me that, I can see such intelligent who've had the same thing running over and over again And it just points out that our brains don't automatically I've been spinning wheels Like, was there another We need something from the outside, which can just be knowledge, right? Which is why I think what we're doing here or the reason I wrote the apprehending this like Which is like, wow, like some huge percentage is rooted in trauma and the Which is why we don't see the panic attacks, the the maladaptive choices like, oh, this is all coming from in that opacity. So we need a de novo perspective if we're doing it on our own. And we need that if we're which might link like finding Which is also part of your question. - Yeah, yeah I definitely want to know about how to assess and Before we cover that, however, something came up in the I can immediately relate to this idea that certain behaviors are really maladaptive and are stuffing things is problematic and bringing a curiosity and an introspection and of the experience that we've had in order from a new, truly from a new perspective. It occurred to me as we however that some people, and yes, maybe I'm talking a little We have a sense of our own identity and how people view us and in the world in ways that we like, effective at work or a good brother or a good mother or father, We have relationships. And I think that one and maybe I've experienced maladaptive thoughts or behaviors, the things that generate a kind of a repetition of anger or sadness, that we have where we funnel that into a So we I'll give a more concrete example. So in thinking about things and in imagining bad there's a certain that comes about. And for many years, I not to feel angry, but rather to work an - [Paul] Right. - Or to pack my schedule with So I could show up in a way that I, hopefully was a very good brother - [Paul] Right. - So in a way it was a, it was a transformation inside of me. - [Paul] Yes. - Into a functionality in the world that was actually very - [Paul] Yes. - And yet in describing it, I can immediately see how it source from something else. - [Paul] Hm- hm. - And yet I, you can imagine, and I can imagine how maybe even terrified of - Yes. - [ Andrew] It's a fuel. - Yes. and I think in knowing some and their reluctance obviously I'm not a therapist, I sense this over and over again, that one's positive identity can often be linked to something - [Paul] Yes. - And so people are reluctant - [Paul] Yes. - Because it it's in that The only thing that allowed this and why I'm still 'cause I don't think I've worked through this process completely, again, a little more is that I was told that these words, just imagine how much better it would be if you could source from a different fuel, a fuel that felt better. - Right. - Maybe it was on the, it was on this, this sentence. It was, maybe you could actually be much more effective. - [Paul] Yes. - Maybe you could be 10 - [Paul] Yes. - Maybe you could have 10 times more insight or work capacity, etcetera. So it's on that hint of a promise that I, at least I was inspired to and reading about trauma and start to think about this. So again, I realize this and a somewhat complex idea, but I think, or I hope that people will idea that sometimes we to this short term soothing distraction or control and then we can apply that arousal. - Yes, yes. I think what you're describing maps I think clinically to what So there's something but we sort of transfer that energy, we transfer that into something that is adaptive or So the idea of the anger, right? When I think of that thing I channel that into harder work, right? Or I channel that into like, I'm going to go be nicer something like that. And there's validity to that, right? But it can become like self well, look at what this I wouldn't work as hard without it. Right now we start to become Whereas I think what you that just because we can sublimate some of the negative that comes from trauma into something productive doesn't mean I mean we can get to our destination by taking a very circuitous route, right? We might waste an hour getting That doesn't mean that that's best. And it also doesn't look In this example, the wasted We get somewhere, but And I have yet to see one person who has addressed the trauma and become less functional, right? It's always either, but they're happier, right? Or more functional just because we may be maybe what's going on will If we weren't sublimating because the sublimation limits us, right? It limits our perspective and do through the lens of the trauma. And that is never better - Thank you for that. - Yeah, you're welcome, yeah. - Let's discuss how one could or should go about finding Typically in my experience, There's this person you and they're really great, but what are some of the characteristics that one should look for? And should we take into account whether or not we are a person who for instance, I've heard this from listeners, I'm definitely not talking about myself here in cloaking something. Some people will say, I want to work with a somatic heard someone say, I think in fields, I feel stuff in my body. So I want to work with someone who can really acknowledge that or someone else will say, I want to work with somebody or that orientation or is open or isn't going to tell me that I feel like people already of who to work with with things internally, some of which are voiced So I'd love for you to talk the core features of a and then how to look for a therapist. And also how to think about oneself in looking for a therapist. - [Paul] Right. - Because of these kind - [Paul] Right, right. Well, there's a lot of data about this over the years, if you look at what are the top 10 important factors to find in a therapist, just repeat rapport 10 times, right? I mean, that's the key. And if you think about that, it's pretty amazing, right? Because therapeutic modalities And I think what that's something very obvious, right? Like what does rapport mean? Like, you know, it's somebody that's paying attention, right? It's trust, it's a back and forth. It's like, yeah. even though I'm doing it with someone someone who's in it with me, right? Someone who's really paying attention. Wants me to be better. That's indispensable, I mean, And I write in the book is someone, a therapist not making eye contact or this is the way they do it, right? And you know, you got to fit into the That is not going to be helpful. And then what I, what I think about that is It doesn't actually tell us that, oh, the modalities are irrelevant. I think that's not true. I think that good therapists by a certain modality. They may come at the world largely through a psychodynamic There's lots of different, ways to do therapy. But when you really talk to those people, really good experience therapists, it's all coming through but they're practically shifting I don't understand the idea that like, oh, I just do this, right? I don't do that. And when people are pigeonholed that way, I don't think they help their We have to be diverse enough to say, hey, I want all the arrows And even though there might the lens I see things through, no, I can be versatile, I can shift, I can adapt to what this person needs. And I think if you have if you have that, you've - Great, so people should and maybe have a session or the rapport feels like it's taking root. Is that? - [Paul] Yeah. - Do you have that right? - Yeah, and I think that's why word of mouth is important, right? If someone you trust tells you, hey, this is a good person It already makes the pretest probability, is quite high. But yes, it's interesting to see when like people have a therapist or they called their insurance and they're assigned a therapist. This thought that like, oh, that's the person I have to have now. And it's like, no, you should look at that like anyone you'd be interviewing, right, for a job, right? But you got to bring again, the right set of thoughts Which is that I want someone I don't want someone who's Who's like, well, it's, because then that means about the difficult things, right? So if one brings, like, I know I got to talk about Even if one doesn't recognize or I got to talk about But to go to therapy sometimes it's enjoyable, it's not, right? It's hard work. It can be excruciating. We can cry during it, but to say, right, that that's how And I want someone who's who's really looking at, how do we help me? And I can feel sort of If one brings that approach through that lens, you're very likely to who's not a good choice, right? And really stick with someone who is, even though that doesn't mean and enjoyable. I mean, it has to not be that sometimes. - Right. Maybe we could drill a little deeper into the mechanics of therapy. I put out a few questions to to know about therapy and it was amazing. I got hundreds, if not how should I show up to therapy? So for instance, should people take a five minute Or should they just show During therapy, is it a good idea to take notes or to not take notes how should clients, patients as they're sometimes I never know which, how should they process that information? Should they take some and in an ideal world, take a 30 minute walk the material or should they set it aside and come back to it? Of course there are constraints, But you know we, there's a lot of knowledge out up to a workout, warm then do this, etcetera I mean, here, we're talking aimed at bettering oneself. So to my knowledge, I've not ever seen this It'd be very useful to hear, - Yeah. Well, I'm not trying to duck the question, but I think it varies so much by person. So if you think about the I think was how to show And I think the answer would be whatever lets you be fully present Now for some people that's I say it, I call myself, I mean, that's how then For other people, you know, walk into the room, they can So it's whatever works for that person. So that they're really their energy is really in what's going on. And the same thing There are people who are going for a walk if they can, or sitting quietly after therapy, kind of putting that in order, right? Otherwise they lose some of it, right? Or like some of the ahas, right? Or the, oh, that's an interesting thought that they really need to put it in order. Maybe that involves taking some For other people, they need They need to like leave, And then they can reflect on So we're so different. Human beings, there's that there's no hard answer to that, but it's like being present then being able to sort of consolidate and retain what's been And I think we have to figure I mean, I try and do what's serving this person best. And sometimes we, sometimes it evolves and but it varies so much. - Hmm. - If someone were thinking about embarking on therapy or more therapy to address trauma or just what is the frequency that you recommend? I could imagine two extreme models. One is, okay, I'm going to finally tackle this trauma. I'm going to do therapy but for a shorter period over and out versus this open typically for as long as it takes. - Right, right. I think that also varies. And I work with people someone who's doing well and like we meet for a half To doing week long, hourly sessions, to with someone in a row, right? So I think as far as like what I have found in my own life, 'cause I value my own So I found in my own life that if it's less than once a week, then it's hard for us to retain really. We spend a lot of time what's happened? Let's get back to the place Which is why I think if we're we're not just trying to Then I think once a week for an hour is really kind of the minimum, right? But more intensive work. It's like the more I intense it is, it's not linear, right? It's an exponential gain. Like we do a lot of intensive work, right? where someone will come with us over the course of a week. So five or six different And you know, we've found that the benefits It's like let's say a year's worth of therapy consolidated and let's say, we go almost every week, maybe that's 45 or 50 hours, but 30 hours with that kind of intensity is worth probably 60 hours, done in a different way, because then it's in us It's in the therapist in an active way, it becomes very, very dynamic. So I think turning up the intensity, if there's something that absolutely makes sense. And I do that in my own life is something now's somebody is really distressing me and it's linking into prior trauma and I can see what's going on in me. Now I start to have with negativity, I'm like, Because I got to do that processing. So I can get to the place that I am, which is not that, it's not that the trauma It' that the impact is much the therapy and that I most often and more often than not when it's now intruding into my thoughts. And it's taking me away from like what I really think and believe, or being able to draw and make good decisions. Turning up the intensity - This very deep, intensive What brings somebody to some, Is it a suicide risk or a I mean, how does one they ought to be doing on the therapist to decide that frequency? What would bring someone to a situation of five a week in one week? - Right, right. Yeah, it's usually a person by something whether that's, it's so negatively impacting their life or sometimes a person I just can't take this anymore, right? I'm sick of the cyclical depression. I got to stop having panic attacks. I need help, right? But it's usually some, crisis point with the idea okay, something comes things are going to be different, right? Not a crisis and things are but a point where, where then comes to the fore of like, well, I need to do So that's often what brings us. Sometimes it's other or somebody's had an that person's been hospitalized or they've gone back to rehab again for the third or fourth time. And their life is really in danger. Sometimes it's that. And sometimes it's a person I want to look at myself, I want I know that what's going on in me, isn't as good as it can be, right? So I think people can come to it for all sorts of different ways. And I think, yes, I think a lot of times it more work, more intensive But I think the person also needs to, take ownership, right? Of their own therapy and say, if I don't feel helped enough, well, I have to think about that, right? And talk to the therapist maybe that therapist isn't a match, right? Or maybe you talk to the can change his or her approach, right? Or maybe you talk to the therapist and increase the frequency, right? But the idea is to be aware of it, right? And if one's needs, aren't being met to 'Cause people can get where it's really not helping them, right? But they either feel sort Like, oh, I'm no better and Or sometimes there's a sense so I'm kind of checking for myself, but it's not And then the part of the by the guilt and shame and avoidance thinks that's a great idea, right? So again, this ability and like what's going on, am I being helped in the way, do I feel helped, right? Am I in some ways, even like happy that 'Cause I don't have to face this thing I don't want to face, right? Or am I too afraid to say Do we really need to look at ourselves? And this is where the insurance systems often are very difficult, 'cause it's hard sometimes I need more therapy 'cause that So there are sort of negative factors in the world around us. But ultimately I think the to observing ourselves of like what's going on in And then feeling that, that commitment to self I need to go change this. - And for those that or insurance or access to do even one day a week therapy in the journaling model. - [Paul] Yes. - Could one perhaps take an entire day as awful as it might seem, to do a lot of journaling do a self-generated intensive. Do you think there's utility to that? - I mean there could be, but again it depends by person 'cause there could also be if it's someone who's not at the point, not ready for that, right? I mean we don't come at, we don't come directly at at least most of the time And we often don't explore it in depth. Like this idea that, oh, that person now has to go through is actually not true. I mean sometimes it is, but that's, that's not the common situation, right? So more often that like the example of like and have to acknowledge okay, like, gosh, what has that done to me? That doesn't mean, well let's parse out every moment of like how that was and So that can lead people So, I think the idea of so to speak where a Or is talking. But I think if one is writing, it is good to communicate Another trusted person. And if there's not someone there are clergy members, even if one isn't a affiliated you could probably go places and get clergy to want to help you, right? I mean, there are people out there who want to help other people. So we say, what if someone almost never do we have 'Cause we could probably go find someone, but we need to kind of So there's some risk like trying you know, on one's own. And that's where I would put in, if a person's having suicidal thoughts or even thoughts of death, I don't deserve to be alive. I mean, these are warning So there are some signs that say, hey, don't try and do that on your own, right? Go try and find a resource. And it's things that get to and often a person knows that. I mean, am I in a place where I know I'm not healthy and I'm having kind of scary thoughts, then we need, that's a person who that on their own. - Great, thank you for that. - Yeah, you're welcome. - So we've been talking - Huhm. - And now I'd like to talk a - Yes. - Drugs. - [Paul] Yes. - So maybe first we could I mean you're a psychiatrist, and presumably do prescribe I mean, this is a vast We've got ADHD and I should just tell you, I get more questions about to ADHD and dopamine than any So there's ADHD, there's there's antidepressants and so forth. Is there some way that we can, wrap our arms around all of that as a way of waiting into this, this drug question and just address, how does one decide when Because in the end, the dissection tool that the psychiatrist or therapist has is language. And at some point, one has to make an assessment or whether or not a given drug would help. And most therapies, I believe don't involve putting And to my knowledge, there still is not a very oh, is this person's dopamine low or high, correct me if I'm wrong. And ultimately that, and I know there are companies out there, so I'm not trying to But if I happen to do if you take a blood test metabolites are low, my understanding is it's in serotonin in the brain, but that's a very indirect window into what's really going on. So how does, how do you think about of treating trauma and other we'll drill into some of the - Sure, I mean, I would first comment that for these things. And I think the tests for metabolites, I mean, things are so different. By the time, what we're talking often to some very significant extent. Left the brain, now it's in the peripheral blood that we really don't I think that we tend to over country because we have that often that's so based polish the hood when there's a So we overutilize medicines Oh, we're going to make that with an antidepressant. Well, I mean maybe, right? But most of the time for to really get better and stay better, they need to unravel what's So the first step is I think they're cut two steps to it, right? The first assessment step is, is there a diagnosis that, that the vast majority of the time, if not sometimes, all the time, So the bipolar disorder, OCD, ADD, right? These are diagnoses that we, we understand more about in the brain and how medicines which doesn't mean the it's not a substitute for therapy, right? But sometimes the medicine and So for OCD, for example, not always, but it almost so that you can ease the the rigidity and the So the first kind of branch point can be, what is the diagnosis? What is the level of severity, right? And I think that's very, very important where I maybe even interesting is using medicines to help the person engage in the therapy as productively as possible. And here's where I think we're so limited by how we categorize medicines and this sort of pharmaceutical insurance driven medical system we have that I think throws So you think about how so antidepressants. And the vast majority of people who are helped by antidepressants, they're not, they don't have clinically severe depression, right? Those medicines create more And if you think about if you're going to go, now you're going to do You're going to bring that to the surface and you're going to process and you're going to try If we can make more that can be so, so much better, right? And think about the category antipsychotics, which really But most of the prescriptions are not for psychosis, right? And there are ways in which medicines can help intervene In pathways that are about distress. And sending out those tendrils of neurons that are about hyper vigilance and avoidance, right? In in our brain. And we can often get at that. And if you can improve and you can use medicines that take away what clinically Not the standard meaning of that word, but the clinical meaning of it, where there are distress that are overactive. And then we get stuck in these where we think about something with no real chance of solving going on inside of us. So medicines can help that, but we have to have some flexibility around their conception and the modern medical system to a psychiatrist that are weeks apart. I mean, I don't understand In the vast majority of times, I think it doesn't go well to do the therapy, even So then medicines get This is how, we use, I think approximately I think across the board as say Then you think, well, is a lot more medicine, right? And you know, they have and a cultural system that to is more rooted in taking So if a person comes in and The first order of business is, hey, you could take better Like this person really needs to lose some weight exercise more, right' They're not just jumping to like, let me give you a medicine and you know, and shift you through and out the other side of the door, right? And the same thing is and I'm not trying to be critical to the psychiatrists or the who are practicing in that way, because oftentimes there If they're working in a that the standard is highly 15 minute visits, what But to look at, okay, I'm going to use medicines tool to bring to bear. So I think the healthcare system and it's short term talk about, we talk about short term response, right? Short term soothing at the And I think that is the metaphor for, that applies to our Where if we, if we are going to try and we're going to do it in a 15 minute visit, that we're going to do it in a way that maybe it soothes a symptom, maybe it doesn't, but it We need to invest more and I think that's if people, as a society, we say, look, we don't like the way Like, we need more focus are that yes, we would spend more money, to treating people and 'cause it's more human time, but ultimately about less And ultimately more productivity. I think as an economy, we would save so much money aspects of mental healthcare, because people would be more functional. They're spending less time They're more productive There's less entry into the So I think medicines get overused in part for systemic reasons, in large part, for systemic reasons. And also for some of these oh, that person meets for depression. We got to give them this medicine wait, what's going on in this person. And I see this over and over again. I see one who is on seven medicines and they're on seven medicines to treat seven different symptoms. And now they have side effects from all those seven medicines. Maybe two of them are to from the other five, right? And that's bad, right? And if you really get at now they're doing much better and maybe they're on two medicines, right? So I dunno if that's a - It is, it's a very helpful answer. I mean, I think at least in the spheres that I run these days, I hear a lot of negative I think, I'm old enough to remember the book, &quot;Listening to Prozac.&quot; I remember when Prozac and its and things like it and the excitement. And then nowadays I hear more these drugs and maybe that's just, 'cause I have arms in but also in the kind of wellness community where people think a lot Fortunately I think But of course these can have enormous utility as well. - [Paul] Yes. - I'd like to just pick up on one theme that I haven't heard a which is the short term versus the long term use of these drugs. 'Cause I could imagine, someone feeling like they're that's been inside them because they're really struggling or because they're just done with not working it through and they decide to start a medication that would give them higher for a short while. I mean, is there anything to say that someone couldn't take a for a week or for the first - Yes. - And then know that they can come off it because I think that the black you're either going to start or be taking some drugs forever. - [Paul] Right. - Or you're not going to take anything. I mean, that just seems to, life doesn't have, does life have to work that way? - [Paul] Right. Is there a short term use - Yeah, absolutely, yes. In American medicine we are medicines than we are at And part of that I think presence of the pharmaceutical industry and the pharmaceutical industry does a lot of very good things, right? But you know, there's such thing as too And then as a society, when this I think also is human nature. We can overinvest in it, right? So you think about when Prozac came out, they were safer medicines, they're billed as antidepressants well, they're going to And it's not how that works, right? So if we look at them as tools, right, then we can deploy them 'cause sometimes that's necessary. But absolutely for the If we thought of Prozac and not as, oh they're what they do is they, they seem to make there be circuits that are important anxiety regulation, distress tolerance. So those medicines can if they're very severely depressed and we want to sort of They can also help someone if tolerance in a discrete When we think about them that way, we think about them as for short term or long term. We don't see them as fixes, right? And we don't see them as then substitutes for the human to human work that needs to be done. I mean, I've been sort of in my training at times in healthcare systems and I've seen in many other circumstances that look at medicines as that person is a, and a lot of times there'll be a number, right, right? And the number is the diagnosis and that number gets this medicine. And I'm not sure we could and that's what leads to adding it's not working. Of course it's not working, because no one's really paying So add more medicines and then And I mean, we know this is true. We know this is true, but we haven't had the to say like with a lot to say like this isn't okay, right? I mean, we need more. Like give these people They need more latitude to help us. We need more human to human contact to get at what's really going on, and yes, that's an investment of in the short term and from the systems, right? But if we do that, my look at the payoff of that. - What is your thought about anxiety and ADHD as a separate phenomena, in terms of medication. Again, ADHD is the thing that seems to come up most in questions. I can't tell you the number but also young working professionals and even people who are outside those categories Ritalin, Adderall, Modafinil because they seem to Or, and I don't know, 'cause I'm not one of those individuals, or because they seem to just when they do take those compounds. And so my understanding is dopaminergic transmission in the brain, also adrenaline, epinephrine in the brain. So they're more or less stimulants. They look a lot like, at least chemically, they look a lot like although they're not quite So should we be concerned about this? Is this a different sort of epidemic? Can these drugs be used to train the brain to focus and then people can I mean, I think this is a huge topic and one that maybe warrants but as long as we're on the topic, what are your thoughts - Sure, I think medication for ADHD can be extremely effective and the studies show us that, right? They show us that if there is ADD, then medication for ADD, is very, very helpful and it seems to be true if adults we kind of know that's true, but all attention deficit is not Attention Deficit Disorder, right? And there we go to the throw medicines at things, right? Attention deficit can come And one of them is anxiety, right? There's so many other reasons poor sleep affects attention, poor diet can affect attention, stress in life can affect attention. So, and, and certainly trauma. And the thing, the problems that trauma spins So this is really the, this is really the truth that medicines and pharmacology, I was frustrated about how was like, what medicine do we use? What medicine do we this is just one piece of the puzzle. And I told an anecdote, which, I think it was a clinical anecdote, like what do you think is going on? And I think that if I middle school students or something, they would probably say, you just told a story of a which is what I, the story that I was actually telling, right? But several people I was talking to, they're physicians, right? ADD, right? It's like, no, every time the person and they're not able to Like that's what's going on. But we're so programmed and inappropriate use of there's dopaminergic impact. There's epinephrine, We're affecting what are called prefrontal alpha 2 receptors that like really need to be but if there isn't, that which is why it is quite fascinating that when people have ADD, they tolerate generally without the other problems And again, I don't know, I but we see that phenomenon. But when people are being treated for ADD and they don't have ADD, which sometimes they but the stimulants make So they go to somebody That's not a good thing to do, right? 'Cause stimulants, when they do affect our physical function. They affect our judgment, right? There are a lot of negative They can affect the So, yes, it's a valid diagnosis, but it gets made when it's which we see with a lot of diagnoses that you can throw medicine at. We see the same thing True bipolar disorder to utilize medicines effectively, but how many people are who have, they absolutely but it can be a catchall diagnosis because there is in a sense, &quot;something to do for it,&quot; right? And you can throw medicine at it, right? So I mean, what do we expect, right? If we have a healthcare visits with your psychiatrist, of course we're going to And then the training paradigms are going to look at it through that lens. And then very often again, I give the example of seeing I mean the first thought I medicines are actually counterproductive? And a lot of the time it's not like, oh, every now and then one No, that's the case. That's the case a lot of the time. And again, I come back to, if we're not putting thought into it, what other result would we expect? - Thank you for that answer. I'm very curious what of stimulants. So if somebody's taking to work longer hours or focus because they have attention deficit, but not necessarily ADHD. And again, I'm not I've just heard the numbers from surveys and discussions with colleagues at Stanford and elsewhere, other college campuses that students use semi not by prescription, just - [Paul] Yes. - I can imagine sleep because these are stimulants, what sorts of other issues problems that they can create? - Sure, I mean, I think a touchstone maybe that's running through is prioritizing the short term benefit over solving a long-term problem, right? Which we might say is a human tendency and we see it across the So, short-term use of stimulants. Sure, people are more alert. They can stay awake more, they can study more intensely and longer. Okay, there's some over there, even there, But we can say, let's just say for sake of there's something to be But oh my goodness, there's so much risk to that, right? And how many times have I seen someone who they're doing that and they're just doing And now they're addicted and their behavior changes Talk about shifting our brain sort of suspicious, outward look, view of the world that So we see judgment impairment, we see heightened levels of anxiety. We see more impulsivity And sometimes we, it can get to the point Now, that's not common, but have I seen young people who've done exactly what They're using Adderall or And then I see them when they're they're screaming about how Boy, it's the worst case scenario, but it shows like that's And how much is there between the, oh, I'm just using it to outcome that is actually and it might change how they think about that friendship or A lot negative happens without an ability to see like, what is it actually doing to us? So, which is part of my whole It changes our brains and Well the same can be, the same is often true of It shifts our brain. And we don't realize that we're in our decision making, a These are significant negative things that if we don't know it, the person will just say, yeah, oh, I'm just using it to study. I'm using it to work more. That's not, you know, that's not without it's - What are your thoughts on cannabis? I've said it many times on this podcast before and I'll say again, I feel fortunate that I've to alcohol or drugs of any kind , so much so that if all the and all the cocaine I wouldn't notice any And I feel lucky in that way, 'cause I know a lot of people feel an attraction to these things that it is almost a gravitational force. - [Paul] Yes. - From their first drink, they just feel, I once heard it described in this, I think it was an Augusten where he was an alcoholic. He said that the first drink he had, it felt like this magic elixir that meshed with the in the most seamless way and as I was reading this, I thought, oh my goodness, first of all, that's the most foreign experience for me in terms of alcohol. And second gosh, that must be terrible. And you can, but at the same time you why someone would be drawn to that. - Yes. So cannabis nowadays is legal or decriminalized in A lot of people seem to use the argument, it's better than drinking or they only do it for I'm not looking to demonize So what are your thoughts about cannabis for anxiety management, depression? And maybe even for ADHD for that matter. Sure. - If I could make an The number of times I've seen alcohol like having been a good idea for coping with something approaches zero, right? Like the alcohol for And there's an additional risk genetic profiles where people Like, as you're saying, it's not just, oh, there's a little bit of but there's this sort of euphoric response and those genetics, we don't understand them completely. They seem to be in Northern more prevalent as you head So we understand where risk but we can't pinpoint And there's a tremendous risk of that, when a person responds so coping to alcohol. Cannabis is a little bit I mean, how I have seen that play out, and again, this isn't around the neuro the like how is this really But it comes from an observation that what it seems to do is perspective, right? So it's why people will they want to use cannabis before like watching a movie with friends or something, right? And, and I think, okay, I think why people are doing that is because our cognitive spectrum narrows. And then instead of worrying or that relationship issue, It gates out other So in some ways, I mean, I've absolutely seen it I mean, it's been legalized I spent a lot of my time and it's not where all of my practice is, but what I have seen is safe around sleep, right? Because a person can gate and they can just relax and go to sleep. But there can be another side of that too, that at higher levels of distress, at higher levels of tension, what it can do is narrow the focus of cognition to the thing So the idea that, oh, like, depression, anxiety, Can it be helpful under Like I think the answer to that is, yeah. I mean, I know the answer to that is yes. 'Cause I've seen it play but think it can also be harmful too. So there, again, like power to influence our brains, we want to be thoughtful I mean, do I think that Yes, I mean, I mean, like we, we so clearly see that. Does that mean? Or it's just uniformly safe? No, right. So we want to be respectful of anything that can change how our brain is working and I think that includes, certainly includes alcohol. And I think it certainly - I'd love to talk about One, there seems to be a in psychedelics as a I know there's also recreational all this by saying that know for sure that these they're illegal to possess, sell or use in most of the country. There are few areas where - [Paul] Yes. And psychedelics is a And we can touch on some of but whereas five years or so, five years ago or so I the word psychedelics in there are laboratories at psilocybin, MDMA, mostly in animal models. There's terrific work going on at Johns Hopkins University Matthew Johnson's Lab, and others looking at the mainly of high dose psilocybin and LSD. There's the maps trials with MDMA. - [Paul] Yes. - So nowadays it's safe to say the word psychedelics. And I'm, I'd love to of psychedelics from a place of true exploration and curiosity. But with the preface that in a legal clinical setting. - [Paul] Yes. - And the legality is something I don't think it's completed, but there are trials. You can go to clinical and you'll see a bunch of clinical trials that are happening in So I think it's safe to and I'd love your thoughts Maybe we could start as a broad category of drugs, that at least my mainly the serotonin system, some specific receptor tend to change notions of space and time, adjust internal state. Maybe we would start there. - [Paul] Yes. - And then maybe venture So what are your thoughts on potential also potential - Yeah, I think if we look so psilocybin and LSD, right? Because ketamine and MDMA, they're different categories of medicine. They're these sort of novel But if we start with psilocybin, I think why it is, why they have gained so much momentum over the last several years is from the labs and the academic centers is so powerfully positive. And as someone who's, I'm interested in anything that's potentially helpful, right? And I want to learn and understand that because a lot of things that you know, you go and look at the data and you see that that's not I think what we have is that they're so helpful, right? And the trials are bearing that out. And of course these are and with the right kind of guidance are extremely powerful tools, but used in the right way by someone who knows how to utilize them in the right setting can have And that's why I think that the thought is there people feel comfortable saying I mean we're in the state of Oregon now where the thought is, we're moving towards early in 2023. And it's part the new data, right? And how it meshes with How it meshes with data that showed such a strong, powerful impact of these medicines. And I have a whole set of there and they're just But my read of, you know, as best I can try and and the clinical applicability what happens is we see less communication or less chatter in the outer the the outer parts of the cortex. And I think that as human beings, we sort of glorify the parts I mean, certainly in my growing up, right? I mean, what did I learn? Even if you think about like, learning about the brain I learned that like, wow, we're great as humans and other animals don't and we can use tools and because we have this part of don't and it lets us function, right? Okay, there's some truth to that. That we can do things others can't do. But we get lost often in the which I think are about survival, right? So we come back to the things you and I talked about early on of like, why are these trauma So like so much of what's going on in our brains is about survival. And I think living so to And the outer part of the brain is consistent with a focus on survival. So if you think that's where language is, that's where vision is, that's where executive function is. So planning and task execution, so much of that is about making our way in the world around us. So we tend to glorify that's in a sense where And I believe that is not true, right? And again, can I say that for But my read of 20 years and thinking about all sorts of medicines and thinking about the psychedelics in a lot of depth, I think that what they do is they take us out of the cortex, right? Because that's where we That's where we bounce that the distress centers deepen our brain and the brain stem kind of of the cortex and they say, right, we we're in distress. We want to stay alive. Often a lot of us have had in the brain and then we're like what would I do what would I do if there's what will I do if the What will I do if somebody gets sick? We're thinking all this future projection that is all coming from It's all coming from a and control the future that is so uniquely human, right? And I think when we take out of those places, right? And we set it in a part of the brain and say the insular cortex, right? The parts of the brain that are sort of in the middle, right? Which I think, I believe is So the psychedelics make there in these other parts of the brain. And then we become seated that I believe is most of true humanness, which is why, when you read about, people who have experiences and people talk to me about this, right? They've utilized it. They talk with me. So whether it's someone or it's coming from research data, it's why people can sort oh, that trauma, that thing Like we feel a sense of We relieve ourselves, and you say, why is this And I think it's because it can do what we are trying to but it can really catalyze in that part of the brain that can see it for what it is, without all that chatter hey, got to think it's your and that makes the repetition compulsion. How do I think ahead to the and what else bad might happen? I mean, we don't get anywhere doing that. And I think where we get somewhere deeper in the brain, if we're like doing really we're in the deep parts these psychedelics, the medicinal value I believe of the brain where a person And that's why I think that, that's come so far in these few years because I think that is And I think we're going to of that and how, what the I believe a heuristic for how are our brains really functioning? And what are the parts that really matter to our experience of being human? It's those parts of the brain, right? The deep parts of the and the areas around it that has an experience of spiritual ecstasy or an experience of connection We kind of have these telltale is going on there that's very And I think we're more of the brain in part 'cause I mean, as you know, better than I do, we started studying the brain 'Cause it was easy to, or to see if a person got or had a stroke in that part So we look at the cortex 'cause one, it's easier to study and And I think that has been misguided. And I think that we're learning. about how that's been misguided through the study of these novel modalities from would of course they've long time in other cultures, but novel from our perspective. - Yeah, I'm fascinated by this idea that in these middle brain structures is, is where our humanity lies and as you said, I also wonder whether or not more from that orientation We can only guess, but. - [Paul] right. You know, that a dog lover and being in the presence of present in what's happening in not too much anticipation. - Right, I mean, through sentient right? I mean what you're talking about is sentience, it's important. And sentience is extremely And if we're going to then I think we undervalue Which is why I think we tend And their suffering, we say, well, they're not saying And you know, they're not It's easy to ignore and we think about, again the hubris of that right though, because we can think and talk and write, like we must be feeling more than species that don't do that. I mean I think, I think that that is so true and that we're going to in other species and how, that's at the core of existence. And my hope would be that we value more humans and animals, right? Through the evolution - The hallucinations that like LSD and psilocybin have to them as a concept and as an experience. And so I think most often when they think, and psychedelics, they think about hallucinating. - [Paul] Right. - It makes sense why they would. - [Paul] Right. - But what's so interesting to about psychedelics, on hallucinations, per se. It was more about feeling states, accessing a feeling state or a relation to an event or to a person or to oneself. Maybe even I, I caught hints of maybe - Yes. - [Andrew] For the first time. - Yes. - None of that had to or hearing colors and these kind of cliche statements about hallucination. So I am aware of laboratories, one at a University of but a few others that are trying to generate chemical variance of psychedelics that lack the but maintain these other And as I say that, I realize that I, people in the psychedelic oh, that's horrible. That's the dismantling of the core thing. But the simple question is, do you think the hallucinations - And I think we're really right, the ontological, right? There's this sort of trying And I don't claim to I think that at times it have a metaphorical or a symbolic way of being helpful, right? Because people will come that they hold dear and true That often, not always, of the hallucinations. So are the hallucinations necessary? Are those hallucinations I mean, I think we don't understand that. And I think we want to be respectful of the sort of mystery of that. But what I think is fascinating like substance abuse and one aspect of that is that thoughts, conceptions of self in the world with the substance that they know are wrong, right? People talk about, you And okay, I feel better about myself and I feel courageous 'cause Now, when I, when I, after that, I feel like normal about myself And we see that like, that's part of what substance But what we see with the is something that's That people are having from our normal experience of reality. And then when they come in a in a normal cognitive way, now I'm applying all those mechanisms of trying to understand truth and to that, and what I see is that it's Like, I mean, we hear that hey, something different And of course these are powerful tools so misused like very But you think about the clinical mean that so many people or even change their because it so resonates as like, oh, now I understand And it's not something bizarre. It's like, I wasn't responsible for or I'm not less than even identity's different from some Like people kind of often differently about themselves and guilt and shame are impacted. So I think we're likely to anti-trauma mechanisms again, used clinically in the right hands. And I think that we're also going for understanding our brain as some of the reflexive hubris of, well, the outer parts must be the best because that's what makes us human and other animals don't have it. And we're better because we're human. I mean, it makes no sense, you know? - I'd like to talk about MDMA and I'll preface this by saying I was a participant actually, technically I'm still a So I have experience of doing it twice at the trial involves three I was reluctant to do it mostly because I was aware there can be some cardiac effects. And I liked the idea there And I'll just say that to be profound, beneficial from one session to the next. The first one felt a whole collection of ideas and relational powerful and transformative. And I do think that I learned there, I exported a number of things, my particular experience but the second time I expected And it was very mellow and relaxing and was deeply tied to kind So there weren't all these It was very much about sort of grounding into a kind of a calmer state. So I have the personal experience of benefiting from these in me and was very struck And my very crude understanding and the state that is being under MDMA is that it encourages or increases dopaminergic transmission, but also serotonergic transmission. - Yeah. - Which is to my knowledge, a kind of a rare state that typically it's more drive towards external goals or more serotonergic drive towards more plasticity or comfort And so with both those systems amplified, the only way I can describe everything sort of funneled back in, and it was almost like a And I can only imagine what it of doing this with somebody I have no idea what that's like. That's my report of the experience. I know that the experience can vary. What are your thoughts about the chemistry and what sorts of states do you think MDMA is creating that can explain why it's in some cases and what sorts - Sure, sure. To clarify, I think part with is this is very different Which are seeding our of the brain, right? Whereas what MDMA is with positive neurotransmitters, right? In certain parts of the brain. And I think what that creates inside to entertain or approach So I think where we see it's tremend, my read of the data is around potentially and we're seeing in some Tremendous benefit for trauma, right? And you think about what we how this reflexive, guilt, shame, hypervigilance, avoidance, right? And when these systems are flooded with these neurotransmitters, it's more permissive to sort And to think about that without again, all the chatter of that's your fault, or you're never going to get or you know what that means, right? They could kind of go away in a way that isn't through And I think that's, the power there is that it's permissive of approaching something, contemplating something, a different, a novelty as we And I think that's also why the experience can vary because you could also see how, if you're not thinking So there's not a clinical guidance to it, you could be in a state where like, hey, I just feel good, right? And I'm thinking about good things. And like, that can feel good, right? But it, but that's not necessarily So the clinical guidance says, hey, let's take that state and Let's Now that you're in this state, let's make hay while the You're in a state where we can look at things that are traumatic, right? We can approach them from And I think it's part, I think that explains why experiences from one to the other, because your brain is just in a state that's conducive to something, right? But if there's not the mechanism to have that thing happen, like conducive to something therapeutic, then you might go there on your own. Or you might just be in a state where you have a sense of wellbeing and you sit with that. - Which sort of seems like a waste to me. I mean, this is what I tell I said, at least from my experience that the potential hazard dopaminergic, serotonergic state, there were moments where I about any one specific concept about, for instance, water and how nourishing it is, and really just go down the path of water and the world and all you're in a state that is - [Paul] Yes. - Internal suggestion. And so the guidance turned out, the guidance from the clinician valuable in allowing me for bits of time, but and share and exchange in a way to, I'm trying really get something out of it that was useful and that I could export because of course water is wonderful, but I'm not really interested in growing my relationship to water. - [Paul] Yes. And I really felt like in, I never went to raves I never did MDMA recreationally, but I understood for the first time how people could get really attached to an environment Because I think with all that serotonin, you just feel connected So I think it's a slippery slope there. - Yes. - And I don't know what the future of the clinical use of MDMA looks like, but I would hope that whoever's thinking about I'm guiding these sessions is really thinking carefully, also about evolving the practice to help people really move through in a sequential way so they can leave with something valuable. - Yes, 100%, 100%. These are such powerful tools. And again, if they're powerful tools and we're using them without Without clinical guidance, I mean, you know, getting obsessed with water hurt you, right? But if someone is out using it, what one can feel positively about or become sort of obsessed can be very counterproductive, right? It can be a lot of risk to that. So I think it anchors back to We're coming to understand And we're coming to understand potential to be helpful to us. But I think and hope that our respect for those what negative can happen - It's going to be very interesting to see where all of this goes in the next few years, not One way or another it's happening. It seems to have a momentum So very exciting area to be sure. - I agree. - I have a question about language. In your book, you talk about how we need to be careful about the use of language around trauma. - [Paul] Yes. - Maybe problem solving and At one extreme, you hear that your every word you say, and, you know, we have to be so careful with language. And that actually frightened 'cause I would hear that if I just think that something is bad now it's going to hurt me worse, which itself is part of that whole, packing down of an issue. Very hard to avoid thoughts - [Paul] Yes. - So that's one extreme, I can say, I can tell somebody, I love them with a tone of hatred. I can tell somebody I hate - [Paul] Yes. - So how should we think about And in your book you talk about, you give some cautionary notes about talking about depression, trauma and PTSD in terms that that might diminish their real severity in some cases. And I was really struck by that. So maybe just touch on how should we talk about these diminish them for ourselves And at the same time honors the fact that there's a lot of trauma out there. - [Paul] Right - And there's a lot of and we need to talk about it. - Yeah. I think this a very complicated and in many ways convoluted topic, like I think it's wonderful but boy, language leads You think about how we, how people define words? Someone says a word, what is it? Does that person know What nuance are they taking from? it We just have to be very and what we're communicating. And I think this doesn't mean because, there's a sort of phenomenon now where people are trying I think too much, like you can't say anything hurtful or you have to refer to people in ways they choose to be referred to, even if those are ways that or ways they themselves have psychologically or clinically unhelpful. So I think the over control but I think the specificity of language of what are we trying to Or even the word trauma, right? We're talking about trauma. So we want to define It doesn't just mean like, oh, anything kind of negative, right? Because then that dilutes it It also doesn't just mean, injury and combat, right? Like we have to talk about what that is. So I think anchoring it to the magnitude of and changing us, like then at least I define communicate that to you what we're talking about, right? I think that another aspect we need this middle ground and for the over control of language but we also have to acknowledge, how we're so much less through social media. And I think social media can do very, very good things as hopefully But it can also be used to harm people from a distance, right? And how much hatefulness that I think comes from anger and frustration in people, back to trauma, right? Where people just want to be angry and it's not really issues but then there's a target of that anger and people feel beleaguered by that. And the words that people use sometimes are so awful that someone reading that, like if you're in the demographic that's being targeted, right? And you're reading that, I mean, how does a person not feel, not feel, be set upon vulnerable, right? And then I think that also fuels, things like we just had this terrible shooting in Buffalo, right? Like just hate motivated, right? And I think that, because that kind of language who may take it in, it fuels their hate and then which of course creates greater feel and fear and vulnerability. And I think there was that was in our world, I mean, you know, I'm in my early fifties, I'm not that old, right? But I remember a time when in political discourse, say people were civil Now so much, I mean, it's But there's an acceptance of things that are just bombastic, right? It's a circus side show sometimes of people being just angry and aggressive and it's not really linked to anything, although it's allegedly but then other people's And it's not about what it's about, but it's about aligning with the anger and I think that there is so much damage that comes from that. And I think, should we have, should it be okay that communicating, using language in ways that would like get us suspended Ways I don't want my I mean, is that really okay? Or do we need to take a stand for like rational use of language? I don't want my use of by someone who thinks better than the rest of us Okay, I don't want that. What's stereotypically a sort of idea of the left say, right? At least in our society, language, it can be so angry and so aggressive that it is perpetuating or spreading vulnerability and And I think we could set where we say, look, I who's going to behave that way, right? I don't care if their make Paul Conti's life better. I'm still not going to If you're behaving towards others in a way that's denigrating, you're behaving in a way that I feel essentially ashamed of, right? And I feel that a lot, right? I see the politics, you It's not always political, of but I see things play out I feel embarrassed. Like we we're somehow okay with this. Well, it doesn't matter which side of the political spectrum it's coming to. And I think that's an is really hurtful to us. People become more angry. They attach to the anger. People feel more beleaguered. There's more divisions between us. And it seems more and more like, well, we can only really who are just like us and like, what does that really mean? I mean, the divisions and that promotes so many I mean, think about ways white supremacy, right? It's just one example, right? And we've seen that play out And we've got to look at that. I mean, if we don't look at that, I don't think something Like something is happening, right? It's happening now. - Yeah, and I'm, it really, to my mind, it really seeps down into the soil of everything that we're talking about. - Yes. - On all sides. - [Paul] Yes. - People are activated. People are upset about - Right. - No one is immune from upset regardless of political affiliation. - [Paul] Right. - Everybody seems to be upset nowadays. - [Paul] Right. - As I was hearing you talk about this, I feel a lot of resonance and I also am hoping you run for office. - Thank you. I don't think I have the gumption for that but thank you for. - [Andrew] Well, that would be wonderful. - Thank you. I'd like to talk about a concept of taking care of one's self. This comes up in the book. - [Paul] Yes. - This is something we talk I mean, I think people have and I'll probably go into the grave telling people to get sunlight and to try and get proper for reducing their anxiety in real time and on and on and on. - [Paul] Right. - We hear about this concept and I think at a surface level, it can sound a little bit take care, take good care. But to me it's a deep - [Paul] Yes. - And I was very happy and also to learn a lot of ideas about what that really looks like, because whether or not of considering whether or is in the deep stages of working that through or has made some distance taking care of oneself is an ongoing process. - [Paul] Yes. - I'd love for you to just describe what taking care of oneself And of course the practices and things that you encourage people to do. But how should we think about taking care of oneself because on one extreme, you could imagine massages and chefs for hire that for ourselves. And on the other extreme, you could say, leaning into life in a way to small things while So it's such a big concept, how do you think about How should I take care of myself? - [Paul] Sure. - How should people - Sure. - I see here, what I think is a very fascinating dichotomy, right? That in some ways, like, think about how complex How complex our psyches, There's so much complexity psychological concepts that are consistent with health are often very simple, right? Which I don't mean light, right? But simple, straightforward, right? And I think self-care is I mean, how much is talked about, how to take care of one self that just skips over the basics that are necessary as a So it doesn't matter how many a person has if the basics of And it's not a light concept to say like, are you sleeping enough, right? Are you eating well? Are you getting natural light? Are you interacting with people who are good to interact with, right? Are you accepting negative Are you living in circumstances that make you feel okay or not? They're very basic premises, but so often we're not We're not looking at them at over them and we tend to because, again, in some automatic way that sometimes is trauma driven or we're not going to look at that, right? And often not taking care of ourselves can have the punishment There's so much that can come into that. Or our sense of power is, is tied to not taking care of ourselves. I mean, I'll give you for whatever reason do reasonably well with very poor self care, right? And like, that was very adaptive when I was into medical training, right? And I'm like, okay, I can eat a lot today. I can not eat, right? I can sleep two hours. I can sleep eight, right? I mean, overall, that's not good. And it hasn't been good But then I realized some look, I'm doing all these things but like what, I ignored that, right? And why am I ignoring it? That was a key question. Why am I ignoring it? Because somewhere inside of me, as it was, and still to some extent is, this idea that my ability to To generate success in the world around me is tied to my ability to do that, right? That, oh, but if I stop I'm eating and sleeping regularly, then I'm going to lose some edge. So even I think about this all the time, but I realize, hey, I'm also, I'm not And I think it's really grounding to the basics that really help us of like, what are the basics of what I'm doing and not doing in my life, diet, exercise, sleep, people, circumstances, leisure activities. I mean, sunlight. I think immensely important - Well, I want to thank you for that. And I want to thank you I found it to be incredibly informative and I know our listeners will also. I also want to thank I mean, you obviously run an incredibly robust clinical practice that I'm aware that you're even though it's operating at - I appreciate that. - I really, the reason is because I've done for people in these areas. And there are so few who have training and physiology, in the psychoanalytic and also have a grounding of what's coming and who can encapsulate so many different orientations and bring them together So I really thank you. - I so appreciate that. - Yeah, and for your I will go on record saying, I think this is the - Wow, thank you. - And I really encourage people to read it and will continue It has so many valuable takeaways and insights and tools there. So on behalf of the listeners and myself, thank you so much for joining us today. - You're very welcome. And I take that to heart of being here, so you're very welcome and thank you as well. - Thank you. Thank you for joining me for my discussion with Dr. Paul Conti. I also highly recommend that which is &quot;Trauma: The Invisible Epidemic, How Trauma Works and How It's an exceptional resource, both for those that have trauma and those that don't have trauma or those that suspect Again, it's a deep dive and offers many simple with a therapist or not, in And if you'd like to and the work he does please check out his website, We've also provided a and pacificpremieregroup.com If you are learning from and please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero In addition, please on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple, you can also leave us up On YouTube, you can leave us comments or suggestions about to cover as well as suggestions of future guests that you'd like us We do read all those comments. Please also check out at the beginning of today's episode. That is the best way to Not so much in today's episode, but in many previous episodes we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't many people derive for things like improving and the depth of sleep each night, for improving focus, for managing anxiety and for many other physical health and performance. For that reason, the Huberman Lab Podcast has partnered with Momentous supplements they are of the very highest quality. They also ship internationally, which many other supplement And we wanted to have a one find and access the on the Huberman Lab Podcast. So if you go to you'll find many of the discussed on the Huberman Lab Podcast. I should just mention that the will be expanding in the but already a number of them for sleep and focus and other physical health and performance are already there at If you're not already following and Twitter, please do so. There I cover science some of which overlaps with the content to the Huberman Lab Podcast, but much of which is distinct on the Huberman Lab Podcast. We also have a newsletter called the Neural Network Newsletter, where we offer distilled information. So lists of protocols and key takeaways from podcast episodes. If you want to sign up for the newsletter, all it requires is your email. Please know that we do not We have a very clear privacy policy. You can find all that by There's a menu there where you can sign up for the Neural Network Newsletter. You can also immediately get access to some example newsletters. So you know what the So thank you once again for with Dr. Paul Conti and last, but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat rock music]