- The number one biggest is to actually walk away. When you walk away, you and that is extremely And in this video, I'm why walking away is the biggest I'm gonna show you what not to do and why the opposite of that And also, I'm gonna show you the mistakes to avoid when doing this. Because when done correctly, not only will you feel you feel like you don't need and you'll maintain your power, and that changes Now, this reminds me of a where I used to do the opposite of this. What I would do is, I would be in a and especially, I remember this in the first relationship I was ever in, where I would choose someone sometimes, that also wasn't entirely choosing me. And what I would then do is I would then think there And I would try to change that and I would try to control the situation. And by being overly like to what they needed, by it would then actually push them away and have the opposite effect. But in the first relationship I ever had, I learned the power of walking away and it had the opposite effect So what happened was, this was one of my first relationships. From seven to 15, I had wasn't allowed to date, wasn't allowed to go to school had a controlling ex-stepmom in my life, my dad divorced her All of a sudden, I have all this freedom. At about 17, that was when And it was a relationship where it was like I and I was okay with that. I was like staying in the relationship. I remember at one point and instead of us going to she went with an ex-boyfriend and a lot of her friends and other people were like, I didn't even think it was that. I was just like, &quot;Oh, well or something like that. And it was a dynamic where I felt like once again, there's And what ended up happening through this, is it was mainly because at that time, from seven to 15, I wasn't I didn't have as much and I didn't have many That was one of the reasons, I think, that relationship was so meaningful is 'cause I literally had no other friends or no other friend What ended up happening is as her and I weren't really working out and we were like not together anymore, after a period of time, I I started to expand my social circle. Then what happened is, there was another girl that actually liked me. What ended up happening, is as I was moving into that, as I completely let go and I because I started to understand my own sense of self-worth, I then would hear from other that they were attracted because we were actually then allowed to actually have our own look. We grew out our hair. We were able to dress because from seven to We had to shave our head. It was like military almost. I started to realize, or not only am I worthy just but I started to feel I remember that as I started this awareness, I completely As I walked away from I remember at one point I got a call and this person was really they really cared about me, It all of a sudden, to where then they started to understand and become aware of my own sense of value. And I'll never forget that, because it was when I completely let go and I started to choose myself, and then I started to recognize my own sense of worth within myself, and I started to expand my social group and I stopped putting all that's when the energy completely reverted and then all of a sudden that Even in a different way, at other times, even more recently, like the last five or six years, where I was in a relationship, where as soon as I took the attention off of the other person the attraction quatripled. It was like the polarity came back. Everything shifted when I back on myself and I stopped almost having like a project that I had to fix. And that, of course, implies But one of the main that I want to share with you is that when you bring the when you put the energy that is very attractive. And also, that signals your own sense of value. That signals to the other And that is what is extremely magnetic and extremely attractive. Another thing that it allows is when you bring your and you're focused on yourself and your own sense of self worth, it then allows them to without you projecting energy onto them and it allows them to to come to their own conclusions. Because sometimes, when a relationship dynamic and you're projecting energy And also, it's suffocating. It literally suffocates &quot;I can't just be me.&quot; And what ends up happening, is then they just want to push away. So it has the opposite effect where what most people do is they lean in. They want the other person to come around, they're trying to fix it, when it's not something to be fixed. The best thing you can do is to walk away and give them space. Because when you give them space, they then can come to they can then come to That also gives them an opportunity, if you guys are meant to be together, for them to miss you. How can they miss you when you're constantly How can they miss you when even though you're you are energetically and They can't miss you. The only way they can miss you is if you truly give them space. And the way you give them that the energy you're is because you're trying You're trying to get them to come around so that you can increase your sense of approval. The answer is to stop abandoning yourself to make others happy. Realize that what the &quot;Oh, if they leave me, then that means I'm not good enough.&quot; But in fact, you've Anytime you try to fix someone, Anytime you try to get to understand your sense of self-worth and to validate you, you abandon yourself. Anytime you choose somebody else that's not choosing you, So the answer to this, stop doing that. Why are you doing that? Stop it. Just stop abandoning yourself for others and realize the more you choose you and the more you walk away from something, somebody that's not choosing you, or the more that you walk away in general, and you are then in your own energy, that then also signifies that if they do desire to be they will follow you. We're all playing certain energy dynamics here in relationship. Now, I know people aren't You got a dog and what do you do? You chase the dog. The dog's like, my friend of her boyfriend chasing Little dog's name's Jonah. It's like chasing Jonah, chasing Jonah. And chasing Jonah, the dog just runs. It's playing, it's having so much fun. But guess what happens when you walk away? The dog chases you. Why is that? Because people respond to the energy dynamic you're putting out. And the idea, the flawed premise is that if I walk away, they're gonna When in fact, when you walk away, you signify your own sense of value, you're in your own energy field. And that dynamic signals That is attractive. It's not guaranteed that if you walk away, by the way, that they're But it is guaranteed that if you walk away and you're doing it from your own sense of self-worth, there is a guarantee that if that person wasn't meant to be in your life and they don't come around, then that's what it's meant to be. They weren't, in a way, You're saving yourself time. It's a win-win-win all the way around. It's funny because the belief is, if I walk away, I'll Now, realize this, there are billions of If you walk away and they don't chase after it's okay. You're signaling your sense of self-worth and then you're allowing space to also bring something You can't bring something when you're constantly worrying and projecting somebody else energy and wondering if they're The only way you bring is when you start choosing yourself. Choose yourself. Choose you. You're awesome, you're amazing. You just have to choose yourself. And sometimes choosing yourself means saying &quot;No&quot; and not that is not a representation of your self worthiness. And the key is bringing So, to recap some of the from this talk that have changed my life that I think can impact is when you give someone else space, you allow them to come You allow them to, in a way, miss you. And then also, you're so that they can actually So you're giving them the space, but you're not sending them energy that repels them away. And when you bring the and you start choosing it also is a sign of self-respect. It's a sign of self value. It is extraordinarily attractive and it also is a sign of self-trust and confidence within yourself. Because then you're that there might be something You're telling the universe, if you can walk away from this, then it's gonna open up There's gonna be a new level of something else that You attract in your life a reflection of the energy work you have done. And if you're attracting if you're attracting somebody that doesn't really choose you, then what you can do, is it is a way for you to And it is a symbol to the universe that says, &quot;I don't choose this anymore.&quot; When you say &quot;No&quot; to this, you'll say &quot;Yes&quot; to something else. So the key to understand this that is what allows them Now, if you want to learn step-by-step, exactly what to do energetically to bring everything back inside of your own body, so that if they're meant this video right here is to watch that will change your life. In this video, I'm gonna show And I'm gonna show you energetically how to unleash non-attached so that you completely that is currently going on. Now, the first thing...