Every new TV show and movie that uses effects relies on Ray Tracing. For example, set in a galaxy far, far away, 3D position them around the scene with lights, a scene. Rendering is a computational process that illuminate each of the models, thus transforming environment. There are many different ray but the current industry standard in TV This algorithm requires an unimaginable number of population of the world working together it would take 12 days of nonstop problem solving incredible computational requirements, path but super computers for decades. In fact, conceptualized in 1986, however it took 30 years and Coco could be rendered using path tracing a server farm of 1000s of computers and multiple require quadrillions of calculations? And how answer these two questions, and in the process, Generated Images or CGI and special effects are up this GPU and see how its architecture is enabling it to render this scene in only a few games like Cyberpunk or the Unreal Engine Lumen This video is sponsored by Brilliant.org and how this dragon and kingdom are created and the scene, an artist first spends a few months the houses, the trees, and of course, the dragon. or squares and polygons, they're actually all GPUs almost exclusively work with 3D scene is built from 3.2 million triangles. a texture to it which defines both the color, the surface is rough, smooth, metallic, glass, materials. Next, the completed models are properly lights such as the sky and the sun and adjusts time of day. Finally, a virtual camera is added As mentioned earlier, path tracing simulates surface in the scene, thereby producing across the buildings or the way light interacts in some areas and water covered sand in others. and when they hit a surface such as this red roof, reflected, thus tinting the light based on the rays bounce off the surface and make their With this scene, a near infinite number and sky and only a small fraction of them infinite number of light rays is impossible are useful, and therefore with path tracing we but rather we send out rays from a virtual which objects the rays hit and calculate how those With computer-generated images or CGI, the 2D of the virtual camera. This view plane has the has 8.3 million pixels. Furthermore, by animating the view plane will correspondingly change. as this barbershop, which contains 8 million the island kingdom. In order to create this image which are a thousand rays per pixel, are sent out into the scene. Ray Tracing is a massively independent from all other pixels. This means that at the same time as the rays from the next pixel flying around the scene, the results are combined image. If we were to show billions of rays, the so let's simplify it down to a single ray This ray starts at the camera, travels through a flies straight and eventually hits a triangle, associated with that ray and pixel. For example, becomes red. The other nearby rays running through close to this ray and have their colors averaged they answer the question of what triangle and should be in that specific pixel. Another example the blue stripe on the barbershop pole turning the thing resulting in a single image with the proper is fairly flat colored because each pixel just So the next question is: how is the location where sources and how bright or dark should the pixel's blue stripe of the barbershop pole, the entire there's a gradient from bright to dark across triangles are facing the lights and the window. face any of the light sources and therefore its the nearby walls. Furthermore, when the lighting the entire barbershop pole brightens up. This the scene and is what transforms the scene and determine the brightness of these blue pixels, ray is illuminated directly by the light sources, how the surface is illuminated by light bouncing illumination. Combining direct and indirect In order to calculate direct illumination, we ray hits the triangle in the barbershop pole and rays and send them in the direction of each light the window. If there are no objects between then that means that this point on the blue stripe each light source that directly illuminates this size, color, distance, and the direction of the is facing. All these factors are multiplied by blue stripe, which in turn changes the shading or through. Let's brighten the room again, and you Now let's dim the room once more and look at backside of the barbershop pole. A similar set of point to each light source, but each of these and thus this point doesn't receive any direct leaving the pixel dark. These rays are whether a location is directly illuminated by You might think that this backside should be none of the light rays from the light sources can because it's illuminated by light bouncing off the and in order to calculate it, we take the generate a secondary ray that bounces off it. This point on the wall. From this secondary point we source to see whether the point on the wall is The results from these new shadow rays and the are combined with the color of the wall's surface, light source that illuminates the backside of still in shadows, so we create an additional send it in a new direction and see what it hits. illuminated using yet another set of shadow rays source that illuminates the previous point. This and each time we send shadow rays to the light The purpose of bouncing the secondary rays point is to find different paths where indirectly illuminates the original point by sending a thousand rays through random points secondary rays bounce in different directions, illumination or how this pixel is illuminated It's called path tracing because by using these we're finding billions of paths from the camera light sources. One additional benefit of indirect color can bounce from one object to another. to the wall and brighten the scene, some secondary reddish color can be seen on the wall itself. secondary rays bounce off the surface depends to the object. For example, here is but have different roughness values that a perfectly smooth surface with no roughness, the secondary rays will bounce off in the same perfect rays hit will combine together and become when a material has a roughness set to 100%, then directions resulting in a flat gray surface. material, then additional refraction rays and the color and brightness of the pixels in the refraction rays and what those rays hit. Here's an that truly show the power of path tracing, and the objects and proper refraction in the glass. rays per pixel and four secondary bounces are the scenes use different numbers of rays per pixel, multiply these values together with the number of required to generate a single image. Furthermore, so a 20-minute animation requires over a was considered computationally impossible for problem was figuring out which one triangle So let's see how these problems are solved and see how ray-triangle intersections are calculated. triangles and find which one the ray hits. We are on and then, using the equations of the planes intersect. Now that we have a set of intersection point is inside each corresponding triangle. If and if it isn't that means it misses the and with 10 triangles, we can do this over triangles are hit we do a distance calculation to millions of triangles, finding which one triangle repetitive and computationally problematic. volume hierarchy or BVH. Essentially, we take coordinates, we divide them into two separate boxes contains half of all the triangles in the 1.5 million triangles and divide them again into the triangles into more and more progressively In the end we've separated 3 million triangles a total of 525 thousand very small boxes at the The key is that all of these boxes have which makes a far easier calculation. For example finding whether it hits box A or box B is just of Y equals six, and then seeing whether the bounds or between Box B's bounds. Then we do the coordinates of the two smaller boxes inside of it. divide branches form a binary tree or hierarchy, branch we perform a simple ray-box intersection and then the ray travels to the next branch. At through all the bounding volume branches, with a small box of only 6 triangles. We then do mentioned earlier with just these 6 triangles. tens of millions of calculations down to followed by 6 ray triangle intersections. a ray will hit first but doesn't fix the fact a hundred billion rays. The solution is in the open up this GPU, we find a rather large cores and 82 Ray Tracing or RT cores. The the ray tracing cores are specially designed and cores are two sections, the BVH traversal section direction of the ray and executes BVH traversal in section uses the coordinates of the six or so quickly finds which triangle the ray hits first. and pipeline the operations so that a few billion scene like this one can be rendered in 4 minutes. problems are solved by using bounding volume hardware. One crazy fact is that the most powerful which cost 110 million dollars and could perform this with the NVidia 3090 GPU which cost a few and the CUDA or shading cores perform 36 trillion an incredible amount of computing power can fit how computer-generated images or CGI and special films, can now be created on a desktop computer. disciplines from the physics of light, to also computer science, algorithms and hardware. hour-long videos which we don't have time to do, already has several free and easy to access where you learn by doing, and is a website filled loaded with subjects ranging from the fundamentals python to biology, and much more. When I learn new Jobs, and how he took a calligraphy class practical application in his life, 10 years later all the lessons from that calligraphy course spaced fonts of the Mac. The key is that as lessons and learn new things, you may not know but there will be one or two courses that will your career. However, if you don't try out their why Steve Jobs is applicable to ray tracing until 2006 and helped to design the computers a successful inventor like Steve Jobs, you need For the viewers of this channel, Brilliant to all their thousands of lessons and is also go to brilliant.org/brancheducation. We loved making this video because path due to the fact that all our animations are Blender which uses path tracing in its all the scenes we used and some statistics It takes a ton of work to create high quality writing the script, and then animating so if you could take a quick second to write a comment below and share it with someone Furthermore, we'd like to give a shout-out to powerful, free-to-use modeling and animation an incredible artist and you can download Finally, one question you may have is: There are many different methods, so we'll cover to path tracing but with some shortcuts. a very low-resolution duplicate of all the models to determine direct and indirect lighting for each are saved into a light map on the low-resolution high-resolution version of the objects in the and shadows on the high-resolution objects. indirect lighting and is one of the ray tracing The second and completely different method screen space ray tracing. It doesn't use the and data generated from the video game graphics scene undergo 3D transformations to build a video game graphics process, additional data far each object and the corresponding pixels that shows the direction each of the objects and the depth map, and the normal map, we can generate the various objects in the scene, as well as Now that we have a simplified scene, let's say what pixels should be shown in its reflection. simplified screen space 3D representation and normal map. These rays then continue through the thus producing a reflection of the trees on space ray tracing is that it can only use when the camera moves, the trees move out of screen space data and it's impossible to screen space ray tracing doesn't allow for type of ray tracing along with other rendering Additionally, if you're curious as we have a separate video that explores Rasterization, and Fragment Shading. The is entirely different from Ray Tracing, that's pretty much it for Ray Tracing. professor at the School of Computing at the you can find his lecture series on computer both instrumental in the research for this video. 3D animations that dive deeply into the Watch another Branch video by clicking one