"Let's be clear - Ukraine would likely not exist Rutte made this statement during his first press October 1, 2024. And the former Dutch Prime invaded Ukraine in February 2022, the U.S. has other aid to Ukraine, with the latest package President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's trip to New everything from ammunition to M1 Abrams tanks and has not only undoubtedly enabled Ukraine to mount back. Of course, the U.S. is far from the only military aid to Ukraine. And it's one of NATO's delivered arguably one of the most devastating President Vladimir Putin is not impressed, to say done, why could this mark a turning point in be revealed in this video. But first - why is the and an equally staunch opponent of Russia? This 2016, Dutch citizens voted in a referendum against Ukraine. However, research has shown that this feelings of the Dutch towards Ukraine itself. of cheap Ukrainian workers disrupting the local a reflection of dissatisfaction with the Dutch 2024, by the aforementioned Rutte. Dissatisfaction by Brussels, and resistance to European also key factors in the vote. Many, particularly were also concerned about provoking Putin, who had the EU since the idea was first floated. Russia's terms of Dutch sentiment both towards Ukraine in July 2023, 53% of Dutch citizens supported higher cost of living for themselves. Only around reach a peace deal as quickly as possible, even or all of the territories annexed by Russia in the January 2024 survey by Dutch newspaper RTL Niuews, worry that Russia might attack the Netherlands, not backing down from Ukrainian support to appease Russia dwarfs the Netherlands in terms and military strength. And on May 28, 2024, and other smaller European nations like the Baltic military aid to Ukraine. "In Europe, especially they are playing with. They should remember that territories," he said. And he's not the only 2024, Alexei Zhuravlyov, a member of the State directly threatened the Netherlands on prime-time then we will target countries that provide where the NATO facilities are located, will be "This is called a nice target in the military consumption of nuclear ammunition." It's fair to been more or less bluster. However, were Russia to time Russian forces attacked the Netherlands. Back an expeditionary force of British and Russian in the Batavian Republic. In some respects, withdrawal, shares some striking similarities the Russian forces were more or less hired by and performance in the field left somewhat to be the British. The British were actually led at the who was expecting the Dutch to welcome to his dismay, he encountered stiff resistance and which forced the Anglo-Russian forces to retreat. days of the current war. The Russians advanced standing on the side of the highway waving Russian earlier. Instead, he was welcomed with dogged his 40-mile-long convoy of armored vehicles to to the Donbas. However, besides this incident, Russian-Dutch relations had for the most part been visits to the Netherlands in the 17th century Dutch shipbuilders brought back to Russia by and in the early 1800s the Russians and Dutch In more recent times, although Russian-Dutch decade, they had been pretty healthy after the Russian President Dmitry Medvedev met with Prime ties. Dutchmen Guus Hiddink and Dick Advocaat 2012. And at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, clinked glasses and enjoyed a round of fine Dutch 2013 was designated "The Year of Russia" in the of 400 years of bilateral relations, and Putin But by the end of the year, relations had taken started when Russia arrested Greenpeace protestors leading to a diplomatic spat. The arrest of on charges of abusing his children, followed a being physically attacked in his apartment in from a diplomatic row to an economic one in March sanctions against Russia for its role in the civil that year with agricultural sanctions against the a quarter of the world's agricultural output. But over the Donbas in July 2014 that caused relations of 193 Dutch nationals lost their lives a claim Russia has vehemently denied. But in any Russian invasion of February 2022 rolled around, Russia and supplying aid to Ukraine, it was a the first in line to join in. And just as safe a names on Russia's list of "unfriendly nations," have certainly put their money where their mouth billion committed until the end of 2026. So, what and why is the latest round so important? We'll shortly. But first, let's unpack the aid that the lethal to the most. The biggest, most powerful much more to waging war than that. And in the case to see just how comprehensive their assistance has officially supplied a veritable mountain and medical supplies including personal first computer and data systems, 33 field hospitals, and To assist with logistics and engineering, they've 20 mechanical shovels, 29 forklift/side loader and 6,600 field reinforcements. With so much and wetlands, both the Ukrainians and Russians enemy logistics. So, the 37 Bailey bridges, six M3 tanks with bridges supplied by the Netherlands the Armed Forces of Ukraine, or AFU. So have the trucks, tractor-trailer combinations, Amarok MB all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and quads. generously provided, including one Scanjack mine nine mine plows, six mine rollers for BMP naval minehunters, plus a variety of mine In terms of sensors and sensing devices, 557 plus ground sensors and night vision equipment imagers have been delivered to the AFU. Moving include MAG, Minimi, and .50 machine guns, long- pistols. For fire support, eight PzH2000 armored howitzers and 120mm mortars have been supplied. when they're loaded with ammunition. Copious types of small caliber ammunition for individual tank and helicopter gun systems, anti-tank 155mm artillery ammunition, plus rifle grenades, Speaking of combat vehicles and tanks, these telling, and infuriating for Putin. He probably Fennek reconnaissance vehicles and Viking-tracked tanks and, more recently, 269 YPR armored tracked top was surely the arrival of at least 100 Leopard Denmark and Germany. These vehicles and tanks have allowing the AFU to wage a protracted land-based longer than Putin was expecting. But it's in Ukraine has had the most profound effect, going in that theatre of the war. In terms of Patriot launchers along with Patriot air defense 20 Bofors 40L70 40mm anti-aircraft guns, four systems for air defense and drone control, such we arrive at the most important, controversial, F-16 fighter aircraft. F-16s can fly up to twice more than 2,000 miles. They can also fire modern as we shall see shortly. Of the 42 F-16s supplied for military use, with the remaining 18 going Ukrainian pilots. On September 28, 2024, Netherlands bound for Ukraine started appearing the F-16s promised to Ukraine by the Dutch have join at least another six that are known to have Zelenskyy has stated that he needs at least 300 offense against Russia, these latest deliveries a bit of luck, they'll last a bit longer than the 2024. The reasons for the crash are still unclear, Russian aerial attack involving five missiles of the crash, according to the Ukrainian Air shot down by friendly fire from a Patriot missile. reported that a Russian hypersonic Kinzhal missile at Strakonstantinov airfield in Western Ukraine. immediately denied it. "Russian sources, including information about the supposed loss of four F-16 strike.' This information is presented without yet another fake designed to manipulate public 'ineffectiveness' of Western aircraft," their any evidence or concrete facts themselves. Such has the full quota of either nine or 23 F-16s a difference in this war? They are 45 years old, and mothballed by the Dutch, who are in the The answer, in a nutshell: long-range strikes Russia are becoming much more frequent, much more Putin's side. The Russian Defense Ministry issues if not hundreds of Ukrainian drones and missiles of Belgorod. But increasing numbers are getting Since the beginning of September 2024, there have launched over a hundred drones against targets Tver Oblast, and the Moscow Refinery in Moscow. against Moscow - the largest drone attack against dozens of homes being damaged and two people just getting started. On September 18, Ukraine Missile and Artillery Directorate, or GRAU, 107th series of explosions and fires while damaging much resulting fires over an area of approximately to 200 miles. Russian officials reported that 13 of the area had been ordered, with the Estonian the strike had caused 30,000 tons of munitions to 2024, Ukraine launched drone attacks on two near the village of Oktyabrsky in Tver Oblast, and in Krasnodar Krai. Although fires and some damage all shot down, and the damage and fires were or not, for the Russians, October certainly In the early hours, Ukrainian drones struck the about 185 miles from Ukraine's Kharkiv Oblast, a warehouse for Russian glide bombs. While the FIRMS satellite monitoring system detected several supporting claims of a successful attack. Then, downing of four Ukrainian missiles attempting to missiles were reportedly shot down just 3 miles Kurchatov. This is not the first time the Russians Kursk NPP, and frankly, one has to question so close to Ukraine's borders. As Russian Foreign in late September "radiation doesn't stop at maybe the Ukrainians have forgotten what happened just 60 miles from Kyiv, was Ukraine's first NPP three fully operational NPPs, however, with 15 Giga-Watt, or GW, South Ukraine Nuclear the 3 GW Rivne Nuclear Power Plant in Rivne; Netishyn. Technically, the 6 GW Zaporizhzhya is the fourth Ukrainian NPP. But it has been under by Ukraine too, if the Russians and staff are to energy supply, particularly since Russia has been infrastructure for almost two years, starting as Kerch Bridge in Crimea. These attacks, according of Ukraine's power supply, leaving millions coming winter. But so far, Russia has strictly risk provoking Russia into striking Ukrainian NPPs up until now, Putin has seemingly allowed Ukraine without any of the nuclear, or other highly But there's a very big difference between striking airfield. However costly the damage inflicted on it doesn't have a half-life of thousands of besides the Netherlands and Denmark, none of the have given permission to use their weapons to don't trust Ukraine not to do something that might In late September, Putin responded to growing failure to follow through with major escalation stepped over by Ukraine. He ordered Russia's the updates mean that if Russia is attacked, weapons but are able to contain nuclear warheads, not just against the country firing the missile, facilitated it, too. Perhaps he's bluffing again. red haze comes over him and he reaches for the statements from the U.S. and the U.K. expressing within Russia using its weapons suggest that, at perhaps the reticence to give permission is Chancellor Olaf Scholz has been adamant about not Ukraine for strikes inside Russia. His party, the rapidly to both the right-wing Alternative For Sahra Wagenknecht Alliance - Reason and Justice, to Ukraine. He doesn't want to risk pushing is a bit of a circus at the moment, to put it left-leaning parties colluded in the second round who had won the first round. President Emmanuel but not the far right, to diminish the power of is furious, as are the far right. It's a political as a result of France being dragged into subject to attack by Russia. According to the October 3 attack on the Kursk NPP indicate they are capable of carrying a nuclear warhead. almost all of which are within the 1,865-mile situation is only marginally more stable than Prime Minister in as many years, is grappling with his own party over military support for Israel, cost of living. Both he and his Defense Secretary Ukrainian aggression, with Lammy likening Putin to a mafia empire" in a fiery speech at the U.N. on the British Storm Shadows are the only other capable of holding a nuclear warhead. The Storm missile with a range of over 185 miles. Costing terrain-referenced navigation, making it capable Ukraine has been using Storm Shadows prodigiously arriving in 2023. In particular, Storm Shadows such as the Rostov-on-Don submarine and U.S., of course, has a hotly-contested election major escalation, at least until that is over. Netanyahu's belligerence to deal with. And mix at the best of times - unless you're Putin anything to go by. Republican presidential has made it clear that should he win, he will not administration has delivered. So, it's go Vice Harris then, as far as the Ukrainian war the political situation in both the Netherlands that's part of the reason these nations have been Ukraine to use their weapons to strike as deep Danes had already granted permission for Ukraine strikes inside Russia back in May. In August, went even further. "Defending yourself may well as part of this, you attack the infrastructure this is fully in line with the rules of Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen urged discussion about red lines. Let's not delay what far, only the Dutch have heeded the call and gives Ukraine the capability to fire long-range the F-16s supplied to Ukraine have been outfitted high-impact weapons. Ukraine now has the F-16s. top of all the other assistance detailed earlier announced that it had allocated an additional purchase munitions for the F-16. As ground-based supplied in large quantities by the U.S. can munitions capable of striking deep into Russia fruit in terms of availability and suitability can carry a 44-pound warhead. The variant with the it's barely going to reach Kursk, let alone deep prove invaluable for use in defensive situations - behind the frontlines - in an offensive sense, Ukraine's successful drone attacks in the Russian aircraft and other expensive assets further back Shadows, SCALPs, and attack drones. What Ukraine JASSMs. These air-launched U.S.-made cruise be fired with an accuracy of within 10 feet. More depending on the model. And Moscow is only 280 that Dutch F-16 ammunition fund could procure that the U.S. is willing and able to part with units have ever been produced, with Lockheed 500 - 1,000 units annually. Thus far, the U.S. has aid package to date. To be fair, before the it made little sense. That's because their Ukrainian Air Force's ex-Soviet jets means there JASSMs could turn out to be the game-changer. chaos in the Middle East, his Kursk invasion Zelenskyy and the AFU could certainly use a history suggests the Netherlands will always be give Ukraine JASSMs? If they do, what targets Russia? Please let us know your thoughts in the check out SPAIN Had Enough of Russia - GET OUT