Hello, Ujiie here. The reface CP! Man, this thing is SO much fun! The name CP actually refers to Yamaha's CP line and the history there is REALLY deep! This undoubtedly carries on the CP legacy. In the CP series, there were the 20 and 30 models, when they became electric, but we can't forget the 70 or 80! I had one myself! But as far as modern members of the CP family go, you have the 1 or the CP4 stage. The CP series is really all about stage pianos now. But here is a CP, as a member of the reface series, and at this size! In this magnificent little black body here. And it looks good, right?y And the panel? What else does it remind you of but an electric piano? This thing is REALLY nice! And as you can see, the keyboard is a compact, 3-octave VERY high quality affair. Playing it just now I can honestly tell you it feels fine! No problems at all. Because it's a CP, I'm playing a CP sound now. It uses the same SCM sound engine as the CP1. What does SCM stand for? Spectral Component Modeling. It's like a hybrid between a modeling and sampling engine. 128-voice polyphony!!! WOW! That means you can step on your sustain pedal, change octaves, uh by using the octave switch. I'm playing the same phrase, just switching the octave selection. And no cut-off notes! 128-voice polyphony! WOW! It has a variety of sounds, so let's check them out. First of all, we have the Type knob here. Selections: RD1, which, being Musictrack I'll just come out and say it, is a Rhodes Piano sound. One point of the SCM engine is that it has a 127-level dynamic response so there are NO gaps anywhere at all. You can faithfully replicate the real thing even with this compact keyboard. And thanks to its size, you can achieve voicing impossible on full-sized keyboards. Like this, for example. On a full-size keyboard, this is impossible. C 7th plus 9th. Rhodes 1. There's a Rhodes 2 as well. The Rhodes 1 is based on early models, with the 2 based on later models. Hear how clear the hammer sound is? And the sound when you play quite hard, it distorts in a rather pronounced way. Nice. Next, the WR selection. Wurlitzer. Nice, isn't it? Clavinet next. And there's a Toy Piano selection too! THIS is... ...yeah it has a nice flavor! And lastly, the CP selection. A total of six different sounds in all. 128-voice polyphony with all of them. But look at this part right here! It's an army of effects! A total of four effects, all usable simultaneously. NICE! For a Rhodes sound, well, tremolo like this. Stereo tremolo. Move the switch down and you get wah. It's touch sensitive. Ok? Next, we have chorus. Controls for depth and speed. Switch to phaser. Ohhh listen to that phaser! Like that famous vintage phaser, huh? Quite similar to the phaser I like, the MXR. Right? Next, delay. D. Delay = Digital Delay. Very clean repeats. A. Delay = Analog Delay. Cloudy repeats, like a tape delay. Right? Last, reverb. Such a nice feeling reverb, stereo too. Fantastic. And, depending on the instrument you've selected, the way the effects work is different. On a Rhodes, for example, the tremolo is stereo. Stereo, going back &amp; forth from side to side. But when set to the Wurlitzer sound, the tremolo is not stereo but mono. That, like that. They've done their homework here. And when set to clavinet... the wah is like... ...it's tailored to work with the sound. Four effects altogether. But there's more! There's a drive knob here. Drive! Crank that up and... Ahh that overdrive feels so good here! And on the Toy Piano sound... ...if you use the delay just right, you can get some really uh, magical sounds here. Add some reverb too. With these tools you can get some really neat results. Well, I think you can see the CP is really a nice piece of work! Of course, there's one feature of the CP that I REALLY like, being the speakers here are really loud. But they sound good, and it's stereo! And they're bass-reflex, so there are ports here, and the bass is good. And it can run on batteries. Batteries! Actually I'm running it right now on batteries. No AC plugged in here. Of course, audio outputs for recording purposes. Ok so let's unplug the pedal here. You can put it on your lap and play it! And the thing is really light ok? What, one, uh, 1.9 kilograms. And the fact that you can just DO stuff like this, and so easily, yeah that's really nice. So here I have it on my lap. You could plug in your headphones and use it on the train even. I travel a lot! On the bullet train? Man I could be writing songs with this. Think about different motifs and arrangements and stuff. Just get immersed in the feeling there. And for those who just wanna play around? You could carry this around with you all the time. I wanna do that! Battery-powered! It can run about 5 hours on batteries. And the finish on this black surface here, it's a matte finish. Not glossy. That just adds an exquisite touch of elegance. Very nice. I really like this one! The CP. I highly recommend you check it out! The reface CP!