Yep, deadeye can miss. And not by some one-in-a-million set of To be fair, the ability description says nothing pretty clear that something is bugged. examining how deadeye works...you Seriously, grab a snack or something Overwatch heroes are more than just models particle effects, and sound effects. components, character models have invisible Objects can be attached to these points and Hardpoints allow muzzle flashes spoken dialogue to emit from the character's Deadeye makes use of certain Every hero has a hardpoint in their the bullet shot by deadeye travels to. head with ID #0012, which is where To determine if deadeye is locked-on to a target, originating from the shooter's camera: checked against hardpoint #0001. LOS point (typically located near the chest). lower LOS point (typically If any one of these LOS checks pass, You'll notice that the skull line-of-sight nor where the bullet hits. know about deadeye, it's that the skull in no way You'll also notice that the tests are separate from the bullet path. line-of-sight check needs to be met, you can miss Although I technically have the bullet goes to hardpoint Most heroes' lower LOS points are 0.60 so there is a very large range of You can get some pretty crazy It's also possible to miss deadeye by only smaller range in which this occurs. and the hardpoint are typically very From this position, I can reliably lock-on If she's put to sleep by Ana's sleep dart, I can Although hardpoints follow character line-of-sight points remain static. the bullet target is way down Once Widow wakes up, the bullet target If you think that's bad, put on your There are some scenarios where a target, but you can't fire the shot. character models -- specifically their bind poses. to as a &quot;T-pose&quot; by players -- is the A bind pose can be very different Junkrat, for example, is physically one but he has a severe slouch in-game. by deadeye is much lower in-game Here I've added a yellow beam to show where When you first use deadeye, the game if the target is in their bind pose. LOS to Junkrat, I do have LOS to Once I fire deadeye, the game re-evaluates shown by the bullet path. I'm not able to show the hardpoint moving. If I continue to use deadeye I can no longer lock-on to Junkrat since the So to summarize, this yellow beam only provides LOS the first time you use The inverse can happen as well. I can't lock-on to Pharah since I can't or the hardpoint. her model extends just far enough around Despite this, I can't actually fire deadeye. but as far as the server is concerned This results in the &quot;you didn't Since the hardpoint only updates every deadeye use will influence the next deadeye. As an example, from this position I can hit Then I deliberately move Bastion's hardpoint After this, I can no longer lock-on to him from But if another player shoots him with deadeye, his hardpoint moves back up where it's So far, these deadeye misses have Surely with a completely unobstructed view If a hero undergoes a rapid pose change right This is actually what prompted this I've received dozens of clips and replays showing take long to brute-force reproduction steps. it!! You guys see that? She dodged it [YouTube Marblr] The immediate assumption would be that the hardpoint moves outside of While it's an intuitive guess, there make me doubt it's an animation error. will never miss deadeye due to a pose Furthermore, players with higher latency have a At a ping of around 60ms, there is about a at a ping of around 250ms, If this were just an issue with you'd expect all three test cases to And no, these are not i-frames; Mercy the bullet literally just misses. you can see that it takes damage Aside from Mercy, plenty of heroes can dodge Sojourn sliding, Lucio wall-riding, Just like the previous bug, missing deadeye affects your next deadeye. establish LOS to Mercy behind this statue. angel, I can establish LOS behind the statue Though remember, the hardpoint The fact that your network condition is what makes this bizarre, and to be Speaking of network conditions, there is one If you've been in the Overwatch scene for a while, you've probably heard the phrase This term describes one of the consequences of shoot you around corners if you are still on Deadeye doesn't really behave the same way. still on your screen, but the bullet travels This means there's a pretty good chance you can So never use deadeye if you have high Special thanks to everyone who helped with this and to everyone in my Twitch chat If you don't know, I stream workshop programming, green screen things people ask about. Wow I fell for it. &quot;Torb saving his turret&quot;, I thought you said for THAT one immediately. not going to live that one down.