When I was growing up, even from from all the way to Fresh I was seen of of blackness where it wasn't and was like, we've And then the music and the style filters you get. And because it is novel to be completely like, devoid and struggle We are we aspire to it. And then I would I came to America, and then I met who were all like, man, I can't wait I can't wait. Like, man, And I was like, My cousins were trying Tupac, right? And all. And I was like, come here and you're This is Ta-Nehisi. Coates is not and most beautiful Every time it seems to shake The case for Reparations Between the world His work and his new book, The Message is because in it Carolina He goes to Senegal that he's And then he delves difficult subjects Israel Palestine. Most people but very few people know behind the words. And so this week and my good friend to get into that he doesn't always and try and figure out how and why he sees the This is what now with Trevor Noah to Yemen. Ta-Nehisi, welcome. We're going to because we can We can keep going. Actually, that's the. First thing I do do you ever feel like do you ever miss a normal human being? Because so many people, I think, see you intellectual body. Yes. That many people just like, shoot the shit Fortunately, and friends They just don't care. You know, about this It's very, Like I'm a writer, and so that gives me But I am rarely any room. I'm not the funniest, I'm not the best, And so that's good. It's good to be you know, I mean, this is the abnormal And then there's life. Do you pop into that And then you live I try to stay from that abnormal thing It's very deceptive and I think So what's this like into the abnormal thing, You know, is dangerous in a very Like, I think like this sort of thing but it's dangerous in a particular way because you actually are on behalf of another it's not really for a lot of it. And so you're trying to while at the same time For sure. Frankly, long this can go on for. What what do you mean I just you know, that and we've experiences like watching maybe white people who end up in spaces and advocate for us. And it's like I don't this there's in being that person, And there are people who this is like where The people who profit Yeah. you know, What I really, And I really it's very important you know, like, it's that I, you know, That's an interesting I think everyone has example of it But I know for a fact I've seen people who, seldom writers. I think more people where they sort of in the pain at first that bringing awareness to it And then at some point is this how Now that's that's The only. Thing is when I'm Almost like ambulance where you go, I don't know that people got hurt I feel like this is The things. That's so. You're concerned about, like people conflating somehow, the things you're with the project you're Yes, yes, yes. But I would say like my intention. My intention within the frame who have been that is my intention. So it's not even like a it is a concern but there's a deeper Yeah. I think like I often I've gotten Are you worried Are you worried Not really. I mean, I kind of knew what was going what was going to happen But, you know, once the attention I think the thing worrying about was becoming the guy space truly, truly, I can really, in a way It's difficult, though. I you know, so when I started and like Christiane almost like from the beginning, did you come in two. I love that. You know the day. Yes, Yeah. Yeah, So I've been that that means I've been only four years Right. I've been there But you're hosting and I remember exactly I was What I always was that I had a platform and an opportunity, as like a but like a I was like, We get to talk I was always the person, I mean, she's like, Trevor, have you And I think we could and to give credit there were many people It was like a brain that like sort of, and I was the sponge and the filter who goes, if that works, I don't But to your point, it's like we would talk about a shooting and then we talk about But then very quickly hey, there's more and there's more and you've And then it's it's it's weird you want to be who gives voice But on the other hand, you don't want it to be That's right. Because in a strange lose yourself or you can make people you trying to make it Right, right, right. And you cheapen maybe the thing to actually bring So, you know, I've and I've been actually just in a conversation earlier today, structurally that is not, you know, to to advance A it's it's I love the book, thank you. I was really great you hated it. Well, what a joy. You know. I didn't think maybe It wasn't that radical. I was like, It's not like this is That's But the thing I was most profoundly moved on childhood. Yeah, because I'm raising children now and I often think about how my son is and how my daughter her childhood. I mean, you spoke about and the the confines Yes. And, you know, reading kind of being this it being passed down And it was like you spoke about the portray that you're And I was like, to me, on beautiful but also a child that happy And I was just I was to me, that this child that would cry while. You you. Is the same child And it is. Yeah, just being like, And it's now in South Carolina To me it was just like, you call your books, But it was you was very personal And I still feel a lot in place Yeah. And the way in Israel and Palestine, So I knew that was And I was okay One of the cool things about books and so people and they'll see that And in terms of personal I always saw my, my, my writing students, could be doing anything You know, they could be They could be You play video games, you really have to But you really. And so, like, like trying to sacrifice You know, I really need you my work is worth You know, it's. I'm trying to give Yeah. You know, Let me ask you you know, like, on a human level, I honestly because I very seldom get angry on people's But we haven't been able to stop talking Wow. We like we, I don't just mean who make this podcast. Yeah, Yeah. People online And I'm. Totally off. Let me tell you no. You are not happy I mean. I'm obviously hearing Let me fool I don't think the shock wave not because of what you said, people felt Just just the opening salvo And I'll never forget the question where I think it's Tony When I read the book, I imagine if I took your name out of it, and the acclaim, took the cover of the book, the publishing house of that section would not be out of place in the backpack You know, I sat there. I don't get I genuinely don't. I sat down. My first thought but if you remove every context then everything could go You know what I mean? If you remove America's history and America's then it's like, Yeah, those people who fought against the Brits, Yeah. Right. You know what I mean? You can call it like, Yeah, the Boston That's terrorism. Yeah. If you remove everything has And I. I'd like to know maybe, people do that? Why do they remove when speaking about I'm trying I wasn't so assaulted. I think I think like I love all of those but they're not So okay, you take them You know what I mean? I think in terms of the research from, you know, And I guess, again, I keep saying this how much the extent have been pushed understanding was a third rail I knew this was coming. Even though like, you know, like I knew like Like I was like, you know, and waiting for a fight and you see somebody throw the left your sparring partner thousand times by that. And I figured it was going You know, I didn't know was going to be right but I figured it was going I want to say something that actually The thing that went wrong more than anything, is Gayle King is a great is a great Gayle before we went gone through the book. And I'm not saying agreed with the book. She was like, I want to ask you actually about that. And it was like Gayle. Was considered, My. Husband, Gayle King but she didn't speak. It was her her handwritten notes, You know what I mean? She had all these And I think while on the one hand, me a service, you know what I mean commandeering I don't think he did. Nate and Gayle and I'm really, I more than anything, I can take care of You know? I'm good. I'm good. I like I said, these arguments. I've been rehearsing, So, you know, to do, I'm okay doing it I was okay. I left Don't don't cry for me. I'm sure you know that will sell because the fact of the is actually endemic I'm actually writing. Yeah, it is. There is no way you can imagine who took the other side and somebody saying, if we took away It was we took I feel like I would find this in the backpack Colonialism. Yeah. You can't even imagine Yeah, that framing It's like ten steps. That need And they aren't there. They aren't even there, And so I think taking a lot of time I know This is a long time ago. 20 seconds. Yeah. Right, right, right. That's the whole We don't have But but to your point, removing the context, I think, is You know what I mean? Because if you start then you really, to get into trouble. I mean, one of the things I've really tried both personally and in, you know, is obviously at maybe not obviously, but my great horror The fact that I don't but I say it my politics And human life really, And thus, if human life it shouldn't matter and October 5th that it didn't. When I to the West Bank and I was up and down Jesus from Haifa, Jerusalem, Hebron itself lead Tel Aviv. What they told me And I know and you and your men say Gaza, before October, is it Wow. And I was trying But there's, you know, in terms of press access that I couldn't. And so I just think like, is there And I don't think I actually don't think Have genuine, at what happened on to feel like there really isn't a world or reason I'm not Palestinian. I'm Ta-Nahisi quotes for justifying and yet understanding that things that they happen The example all the time is like Like Nat Turner launches This may slide as You know what I mean? Like, and I've done this experiment for myself Does the degradation of slavery make it so something like that? And I try to imagine and I think I can accurately imagine that there were enslaved no matter how That said, this, Yeah, yeah. I can't do that. Now, here's And I haven't but I think about it where I, 20 years which is a giant open And what I mean by that is if my father is and he goes too far out into the sea, By somebody off, you know, If my mother picks and she gets too close to the wall, If my little sister and she needs treatment because there are no facilities to do that and I don't She might die and I grow up and that poverty and my also or even constructive where I don't know that I am. You know, I don't I don't you know, I just wish we had room to work through that, And to think about that and to talk about that and I think that is not That is not unique that is not unique That is human history. That's human beings. you know, if they lived of slavery not have been enslavers. No, you would have. Yeah. You would have Yeah. And most human beings, Yeah. Yeah, And without that, This idea that there can be that heroic individual and beyond that is That's not history. We're going to continue right after this short And I think about, you know, for me that's happening that isn't happening now I have a little room, But I remember having a conversation when he was you know, and we were talking it was in an interview And I've asked, officials As I say, by the notion of like a strike, and the collateral And I always go, do you ever wonder what collateral damage not and I'm but do you ever wonder So one of the stories that always there was a strike and they were I think it was one He was in the back And if you remember, a missile, got the taxi, And they were they were And I remember talking about this and I said, wait, They said, Yeah, we got I said, What Yeah. And they were like, yeah, well, I said, Well, what about the taxi And they're like, But this is an ISIS And I said, Okay, maybe it's a quote unquote being a taxi driver. Even in America, even in a first war, are responsible Being a taxi driver It's not a career It's like doing to make ends meet. And I go, When you've taken out a taxi driver, have you taken out And I know that you've killed but who might Yeah, Yeah. Who might you have? You know, I that's that's I think I love your writing it challenges us the most difficult that anger and violence You know, and to go back first question I hadn't read the book when that but I was now ready for man, I you know, I read through the book And I'm reading about you loving In the beginning, but in the back of my you know, you've watched and they've only shown and you're like, I mean, I know it With the explosion Reading and I'm picturing because of a football It's paraplegic and you're having And I'm reading about you in Baltimore and you learning and writing and talking But in the back of my head, I'm going, There's a chapter that is going to make Tennessee differently. I'm like, What is this And what nobody mentions you spend the first, I want to say like ten Yeah. Speaking about you spend the first ten pages talking you spend about going You talk about There's a book of names that that shows you all the millions of people who died You talk about the most You know, those those soldiers killing not because the war but because they just didn't And they knew the Russians and they were going And I didn't know like individual moments. And I was like, Damn, But all I kept this is not in the This is like, No, but that's It's like, you know, and maybe, maybe it's a long way of me And that is like, why would you start of the Palestinian Why would you start with the history It's actually not about And you know, I have to be pretty open It takes a particular But if you notice, always that between that Senegal chapter Yeah, I felt that Yeah. And it's because in-car imagine ideas that play a role and then having to deal as an actual place. Yeah. You know what Yeah, we will. Yeah. Don't have to deal And, and, you know, frankly, quite figured it all out But the mess of that you know, like working Right. You know, made it something that nobody in Africa Have. And nobody in Africa And so you're kind of like working And I actually think You know, I actually But like trying to work and then here some of the I would say that I grew up around has been taken like it's actually You know, it's not, without power trying to, you know, create stories and trying to and trying against an oppression. It has become And I knew I was going you see, If you can't and in Zionism, if you think it is just doing an evil thing, Yeah, You've missed it. You know what I mean? And I have to be honest, and I said this once I started reading around Zionism, it was like on this is so clearly Like, I recognize Well, first of all, they use the word you know, depicting in a certain way either or what a savage But the other part was I recognized Like I recognize. You know, Moses has talking about being a member of a degraded people He says, you know, your nose be made to disappear. You can pretend you're He's saying this You know what I mean? You can't hide You should be And all I can hear is Yeah. So I'm, like, Like, I can feel The parallels? Yeah. And the fraternity Like. But then you see You see where it goes a people who have been. Just repeatedly. Degraded over killed, chased and ethnically cleansed you know, can go somewhere and perpetrate a system of just dire Dire. And I say this, you know, That was a challenge as a black person, You know what I mean? Like, concerned about Zionism what it did, because I started thinking, and this is imaginative but this is, are supposed to do. What will we be What would we do? You know? this discourse around where African-Americans had this whole thing we don't go and we're going to civilize our brethren, Yeah, we're going to sit to Christianize And you see, my God, like we could be seduced Yeah. You know, strong on this point. This is It's not a Zionist era, I mean, this is a human, deeply human temptation but human, I find in the book what I found I feel you implicate You talk about imperialism, I see, you know, evangelical And as in a bear of an American passport, certain checkpoints I am enmeshed with that, whether I like it So you like calling as an American in a way people are necessarily You're not saying this is the big bad You're saying It's actually us. And and that's the key And people will tell you, they said, what about, What about China? What about, you know, they'll name where horrible What about Saudi? And they're not wrong, You know, not wrong, but this is our horrible That is the key. That is actually You know, every it drops a bomb on Gaza Every single one. Every single one. You know, I was there's a report and this great Palestinian American law Nora advocate, that Josh Paul used to be and he worked that oversaw to other countries I can't do this anymore. And he sent me, a couple of weeks ago, the day that he and Nora just outlining the human rights violations over the past year And I saw that line and this was after my God, this is really I mean, you just get more and more evidence even more so because we walk We go around the world, we go around the world saying we are the font See, we advanced through the fight We advanced ourselves to fight We advanced ourselves. Martin Luther King but we are supporting Right now. That's CBS interview, right? Like when I say to not once no, that's not true. He kept on saying, Right. Why not? You know, he said, There not a meaning? Every single perpetrator of segregation I'm so excited Know, there's all sorts Well, for me, the parallel is like, you know, I've had this sometimes argument with some of my friends, some Israeli born, some And we'll and we'll And, you know, one thing of is how broad For instance, now, we had on, you know, one of the other podcast we had the author and Nexus, Yuval and he's like, And he said, my definition It is me believing that Jewish people have a right to exist in a state have to run away And they had and I'm but essentially that's And then he went on to committing and he said the West more indefensible even a boogieman Hamas And he said should be protesting because in your words, he said it is America's participation And when I think about apartheid, like and I'll be honest, I think this is what it and I think of it None of us wishes to be we can never get out Nobody wants to be because this is now that they wear forever. And there's no coming you know? And so if that's why my opinion, people yeah, that was racist. What I said was racist. Because they're like, no, no, no, no, no, no. I know, I know. And I've noticed And during apartheid, the architects of apartheid were like, this is not no, Like, no, we we do this And they said, you must understand govern themselves. The black does not have to understand governance and we are protecting them and then when I talk in and around I'd say to them how can you call it? How can anyone call And they'll say, okay, You tell I'm just going what apartheid was, Right, right. I'm just going And I would like you where you see And I go, okay, your ethnicity what your life could be, what job you could get, how long you could stay part of the town you know, where you That's Then they're like, okay, But now I'm like, No, Let's forget reasons Let's just talk about what it was And I go Apartheid also said depending Yes, but I go, you're I'm not indicting you. I just want you how it's different And oftentimes yes, there's but it's because it And I go, a thing that happened that didn't have a Always like that. And I don't think folks That's actually It's actually like the thing you think and you don't know the You think to realize how much you Yeah. You know, And so when you know, done this, that, you you know, that's real. That's real. And nobody would like You know, the problem the oppressed is that's That's always And so, you know, with somebody else and we were discussing I just gave you that Nat And I say, Well, in the crib is wrong. Like, I don't think But that doesn't Yeah, Yeah. As soon as they didn't Yeah. That's Because you're Therefore it justifies. And I think like a principle thing that cannot be gotten You think for segregation, or you don't. You know what I mean? And in my mind, there is You know, like my dream of liberation Why that would be wrong. I oppose enslavement. You know, penalty example I am opposed to There is no because for me, for you know, he's a serial killer, No, I'm against it. I'm against it You're like, There's you know, and I think we It's just the fact, the bare truth of it is do not have those things That's just the truth. And that is scary for me because now I know because you would if there was a because. we can't imagine or we doing the worst or, it's interesting fundamentally as humans. But then when it comes to practicing it, Do you know what I mean? Like, I remember getting into with a friend of mine and he was like, what do you want And you know that Hamas is trying we think these other countries around us Like what I was like, Well, to not kill babies. I want you to not kill And he was like, No, And we what Israel's Yeah, no, And then I said to him something but I don't know, again, because I haven't been I don't know that I would be able And maybe even we are. I said, It's the When you watch a movie, watch a James All right. For all his flaws, James Bond is pursuing They've got like a vile kill the whole world. Some virus. The bad guy a crowded market everyone who's in it James Bond has to stop, has to go around people. If a woman is thrown, If a child falls, Superman. Man, I want to go but the building so I have to stop from falling. Because while the building and my mission And so I cannot let in my fight with Zod. Yeah, Just because And I do. I keep going. You understand that? On like a on a on a hypothetical moral level, But when we're tested, pass that test The other thing is like with people You know what I mean? And so then it's like, you know, how can you By yourself? Which I just think, I don't know, man. Like, one of the things I thought a lot about I spoke to. They spoke in terms Which is actually why I started which is I mean, you know, real existential you might would start to think of things But equally interesting they told about that survival, but one of the more which holds that they went like like that there was And, you know, and so not just I won't let but next time I'm, going to go out, I don't think that story is particularly I only that version of it it doesn't correspond people act you know, any human But I think also beyond what is life for? You know, like what is what is What is what is like for what you know. And if and like you say, you haven't been tested. I don't want to speak for anybody if my life depends I mean, I might jump off right, Because I don't Then like, I don't I have a life Like when I think about that, thought experiment, like I feel like like, But in the book, I think you answer it the parallels between the dehumanization and the dehumanization of Arab When you no longer see the humanity I think you can do Right? Right. But what about, Yeah, well, you're losing your own humanity which is, And I think that's. What I would Funny enough, I actually think it's the first part I don't think forced to. They're not challenging. We are not our humanity because we've made it because we've made it And you talk about this If you go read and I think I'm really happy that Gen Z has been as on this tick tock on Twitter, You now see with a real clear the stories about what's happening They will say, you know, a family you know, they'll And then on other side, 60 Palestinians. But Palestinians They are not Humans do not I mean, the like if you take that word, you should remove it humans, children, I don't think anyone, to borrow your words from would be able to grapple with that Yeah. Yeah. Because we'd be like, and how many children And and I think that's throughout history. Even if we zoom out from the conflict what we've been at doing as a species, through a few people is they've managed to dehumanize the people so that we don't have to Yeah. drones a part with a wedding or no no Insurgents. Yeah. We got the. But collateral damage Yeah, it's that I'm Exactly. And that and then don't got more what now And it's interesting because when you go to you go to this kind of and where people teacher called marry, they're trying to ban And it's that you would say, how can they do that or as a really prolific There is this movement don't read your book because they don't their imagination, So how did it feel actually Because it felt that like you were more by what you saw but you were more by what was actually happening kind of like Yeah, I mean, Why was I not more burned by South Carolina? It probably is. The fact that this is less of a to the students And I didn't really feel the world to me is going So I probably felt it Maybe some of it also was the fact I got to tell you, this was a little weird, Because it was. Really. White self-interest And I mean that actually in the best way, Because look like People, These white parents down here, to have a first class They want them to go out in the world, they don't want people mocking them And, you know, book banning, like I'm going to have to send my kid like, ban books like they, you know, sense to realize that is not kid with, you know, expectations in AP English So I'm trying to In the university, you know, and it's like You know what I mean? What we're So when I say they might but they recognize education is reading taking things like like it was kind of recognition It's not We completely and totally agree You know what I mean? It's just we want our kids to have a relatively high level you know, And, you know, I mean, you mock that. But there are not too that have been advanced some group of people from the majority Yeah. You know, So I was fine with it. I want to say they want something And I to say this all the time I was talking before like I was reading and everything, you know, in reference to that. I get if you are Jewish reckon with this stuff. You know what I mean? That was why I was kind of It was, Yeah, because man, you know, and I have some exposure but I won't make this I can imagine It is really, to be within a system. I saw with my own eyes, within a system that tells you that tells you what It tells you you are within who have been correct That is correct. And somebody is telling, you're actually sticking your foot That's hard to take. Yeah. You know, that's why it shouldn't It should be. But to deconstruct like the core of your because when you do it, There are two stories, less a story. But I don't know World Central Kitchen, I mean, He's all over the world and he just feeds people such a simple mission. But what he does is there's a devastation from natural disaster, He gets in there faster than most, like And he just feeds people from Haiti to Florida, He gets in there, And one of the more that came out of the Israel-Palestine I think it was seven of the World being killed in a And, you know, there's and then the Israeli it was like rogue, sort of like some soldiers who weren't supposed They went against orders So I want, you know, put my foot anywhere in particular, I keep reading But what was most was seeing that he got by he got Ha'aretz. You know, in Israel, they they did like a spread on him And then he was on Channel 12 in in Israel. And I saw multiple when that was happening and it seemed They said I have seen a story what's happening in Gaza Yeah. And I saw multiple Yeah, multiple people I wasn't hearing this. I wasn't seeing this. And in a way, I think of what you talk You know, when you about the importance the responsibility bear, the obligation when you're because I think about to be able or a narrative You know, I hear from many white South Africans, But I think genuinely when I talk to them, they'll tell me they go, Trevor, And I'm like, you didn't know? They go, Nobody knew And I'm like, what is happening And they say, Remember, we have the national Yeah, they broadcast We weren't getting It was banned. You weren't getting That was anything and all these songs we weren't getting anything. So our reality was shaped And if your reality is you almost have to be Yeah, Because I always think you know, on that level who's a good person, Think about what kind of person Everything in my reality but I'm going to Do you know what I mean? And I think about how many Israelis don't the story on all sides. I think about how many South Africans get the story They were just told. Yeah, that black people loved living there, They were like, They're loving it. They love how they live. And and then they would show, or the ANC is trying They're trying to blow We've created Everyone is happy. And maybe, you know, I have to you then as as a writer how do you escape that? How do you even begin of puncturing Do you know what I mean? You know, Everyone who listens to this understands that the book not If you think it's Israel-Palestine, That's the most right now. Right. But the the part of the book where you're going into for me to puncture a reality. You having to now see who don't just exist You know, it's of a slave trade. Yeah. it's people, right? It actually started back when I was in college when I went to Howard, I was in a history They were very scholarly and it was like all of this stuff they came and kidnaped us They had no tolerance And it was extremely of what Africa was and And I finally, you And I think, you know, I think by a lot of stuff, right? And I say because even as I was I really do the film was still over And I'll give you I would just like on the beauty of Right? I have to say. Okay. But have a question Yeah, I have a question Yeah, let's do it. Is it But is it that. Well, is it also the fact as an African-American that you grow up telling you you're ugly, you're unattractive, Big, too big And then you go These are These are And you see. Them people in the world Smooth And you know what Style their style. And it's like what? You know what I mean? And so but I am trying to, how much of that is me looking at them You know what I mean? Trying to escape like what And how much of that is You mentioned nigger ology. Yes. I couldn't couldn't get over that I knew it Right. This real And you were like, have I been somehow Yeah. I'm surprised That was the worst part. I was like, that's And then. so I think like, yes, I obviously did Like, that's And the fact all of the work to escape it, I don't know if you ever The second thing I read about how door It's not real. Not that many people gory, you know, eight And I'ma tell you, when I lost it. Yeah. Even knowing Yes. Even I like empirically. This is not what You know what I mean? And so what is it even after, you know, all of this stuff and is not real? Like some of this stuff still has a hold on you. I mean, I would there be, you know, evenings with two of the people I talk about in the book, and how Nana we have about who's mixed that sort of thing. But see, the fact while some people fine, I can't we had to even joke like that. Yeah you don't. You know what I mean? Like, there has to be No kidding. Right? Right. Yes. That you have Yeah. Yes, exactly. Like cousins But why are we cousins Yeah. Down but it. I mean we are Yeah, I feel you. But what you know when you mentioned kind of grieved you know, the women out they bleach and they change their hair like African-Americans. And it seemed that that You're like, okay, now what has happened it was so meta that Because this was at the. Same time as I'm doing. You so be like, How would you like And then, you know, is, and I don't know if this is I might have cut you But we look because rape of the experience Yeah, you know what It's not a. Gift. Yes. Systemic sexual assault. That's that's why, it is the way it is. And so actually a marker, you know, in that way of you know what I mean? In a way very much like like as Nikole Hannah-Jones like Born on the Water, you know what? We were there was stripped and then something out of what And you know what you know, became who You know, And I mean, that's even tied to that Why we cousins thing, Because it's like Like what, Like what are we. It did feel like in the car some sort of and I don't want because that's So African-American. Yeah, I've a brought in Right, right, right, Which I've done. Yeah. What you guys I wrote some of this in the James Baldwin's Right, right, right. It's like going to some and feeling something. And you do mention the Which means what? Because you know. Right, Right, right. You're like, I'm paraphrasing, but part of your writing and the tradition is like veneration speaking to you Yes. Yes. But it felt like with the you felt that to a personal conclusion based on your morality and your feeling about But you come out of kind of still grappling. And I wonder why. Why is that? Did it not feel like or did it Like what was that And that was there was an underlying that I didn't feel I think is the I think I never what a we feeling is, but I can't We to each other or. Just what are we I feel like wicked. Yeah. And I felt like but I couldn't like I couldn't And I guess That was my first trip Again, you know, you know, like, I think about like I spent so much time and I think about I talk about this like these little black I don't think I've ever in my life Damn. It was doing it. It was the most natural But because it is. Because it. Is. You know what I mean? And it's really, you know, beautiful way. And I think it probably will take Until I'm like, You know what I mean? And then I can, you know, figure out and what it means It's funny, I think of just the differing what you're sharing now reminds me of when Ryan Coogler, the director of Black Amazing, amazing He was he was going to do research Right. And directed you. I just yeah, that's a good friend So I've seen you. yeah, Yeah. So, so, so Ryan reaches says, Hey, I'm Can you help me out? I was like, So I said, Ryan, you up with my people. PBS tour guides. Yeah, I just want you to be That's what he said. He said he was in it. And so Ryan goes and I'll never forget friends was with them, walking around in Soweto and Ryan's walking like a my friend He's like, He's like, I mean, he's Egyptian. It's he's edgy. He's like, And I'm like, He's like, I'm a he's. Every time we turn a corner, something He said. And I was like, And and then. And then they tell me the most beautiful And Ryan and sort of my friend different perspective. But he says they're walking around, they walk around And I don't know, this but Ryan stops and he starts and my friend's like, And Ryan goes, I've never felt this I have never seen expressed in its full. Right. Like range, like, you know, isn't defined Like, because you are black Might be because of your sneakers but not because. And you're not out, You're not in, you know, you know, it was a weird it's a feeling Because I can't imagine because to grow up In a place of family Yes. I'm like, okay. But when he described it was the most poetic to be as everything Yeah. Yeah. You know, when I'm and even when I feel you So willing to question And the reason that is And maybe but when I just about the bleaching So what is like, This is my theory, Oftentimes times we, we look to those who we think and have found like we look to those is the easiest way I know this personally. Growing up many of us looked and we were like, I mean, in South Africa, the Nelson Mandela's Mandela's the, Tambo that if you have No, no, no. Because what you're What you're seeing Does this make sense? I could be wrong scholar in this, but it's because while there is not the same struggle. And so it's sort of it a different way. And it's sort of aspire to you in another So, like, I remember the first few weeks Meet Joe OPIO friend of ours, a South African. We were walking through the streets of New York. We're coming back Cops pull us over, mind you, as the host At this point, It was like on 11th Avenue and maybe couples us over We dressed in our sports Hey, where you guys And we're like, we're And he's like, We're not. We're going He's like, You walking He's like, Like, yeah, I mean, the game ends So you guys are playing We're like, Yeah, It's like, Do you mind No, go ahead. And he stretches and you know, And he's such an icon. We could not have been And this all happened and then we were done Have a good night, And then we carried on And now we kind of talk Joe was like, you have to pass Of the thing. And then I paused as I think I pauses and I do you realize what Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And they were like, And I was like, No, but because we haven't for that long, we treated about because to us weren't our struggle So we were just like, yeah, sometimes you know, Yeah. That's why I say it's but I sometimes feel like you aspire to a thing that's fixed and it seems like And yours and more complex So I have a view on bleaching everyone to read the work of Professor who's done really African communities and in like the black whether it's Jamaica, Colonialism yeah, definitely. Like Colourism Like I grew up seeing women bleach normal thing, you know, it was, I grew up and deconstructed I feel like the Middle It's very clear the tragedy Right, right, You know, you were taken whether it's in the But the people that are still in Africa who stayed on my family, they don't do the unraveling what did colonialism And I think it warped our sense and separate and the media and stuff Like Farah Right. And that is something changed. Do you know women my age and young. I know Gen Z girls Did you But so for all of his in terms of Malcolm X, one of the things that came out of that was like he like he made even though it still happens, whole like there was a stigma among black people to guys doing so. It's I think there's a key I'm not going to speak Yeah, because there's like this as an act of social It's got nothing to. Do with. Like how I actually feel Yeah, yeah, yeah. My, your bonus, Okay. My tribe. You are. Right. It's something I do. Because I know especially in a country, I mean, if you are fair skinned, and there's, like, Yes, of. Course not. So, yes, Trevor, I talk about like all the faces of Africa, Yeah, like, why is it that we, the face of Africa that the West has bought Because they're like, we want to see, right? And Africans that when you're like black and darker you're not going as African America, and opportunity So in your. Status. Yeah, status. I'm going And it doesn't again, because race is your skin is not the basis of your racial nor is your tribe. I fully trust. It's fully tribe. doesn't But I think if you're Yeah, You feel the way You definitely have. Legacy as a whole because. Your tribe is defined and it isn't in Africa. You know, a. Tribe is always going Your tribe is always There's not enough cream in the world that's going to stop me So I think there is But there is a sadness that because I think that sometimes that can be an arrogance as an African we were never enslaved, We lost so much as well. And we often It's like, well, We have, but And I think one of was seeing ourselves in we are beautiful Whereas out here you guys had and we're like, We're going to reclaim the thing It's not beautiful. I wonder if, like, I'm still there because you asked you know, that essay But no, Processing, I'm with you because I. Feel emotionally, yeah, like it wasn't And I think what I hear like when you hear it, that is something I obviously immediately And it's like, Music, you know. We have that, you know, I mean, it's been back and forth, That is, you know, But I guess what I left is the root actually You know what I mean? And if it is, is Is that kinship? You know what I mean? Like, is that okay? And when I was thinking about it, I was like, I don't think Because actually, in it was all we have in was like my mind. Like, that's But you're saying Yeah You're saying You're not saying it's the feeling you know, of having. Because I'm saying we do have that I mean. That's Yeah, I mean, people doing, you know, my, my family's which is a very American I'm from here in Ireland, I'm from At a certain point, Yeah, we just don't I mean, it's And that feeling you know what I mean? That so many of us so that we, you know, It's interesting because you mentioned the Jewish experience It feels like to me that they actually on, this feeling of loss Yeah. Many people feelings about. Yeah, but it was like Moroccan junior, right? Shoe polish, Jew. Right. We're going to be under I think loss can be has But what about the tracing all your work you know, and every and every story that you has a has a feeling Yeah. Seems like yourself. Your book Go and see You know, your people You have this identity and maybe you connect but go and see. Yes. You know what I mean? The people of Gaza are being bombed and the people of Israel are fighting And there's But go and see. Yeah. And it made me realize how important a writer a journalist a storyteller is, because oftentimes Us, right? Yeah, That's right. And there are a lot of and writers Yeah. You know, even though, you know, And this is like, again, the book is written to my students and this is like I'm really trying You really have Like you got you know, you got to experience it the way it will you will not be the way it will occur for You know what I mean? In its most specific, a different history, might have thought everything I saw and they would have been something you know what I mean? And so I think seeing it for yourself, running it through, your own filters You know, I know we're going to wrap up soon, This is my black. This is what I like. I mean, run around for like three days you know, I mean, I diaspora of Black Britain, That warms my heart. Thank you for doing You know, you know what? I think I said this I'm telling you, this like You know, we we blacks. I love We black when I'm doing Black Love it. Yeah. Because even over there, I don't want American friends here. Like there's diaspora. Paris. Yes. I just want Well, but I don't you know, see my people. I want to break it up. I got to see some You've You got to break it. No, no, no, not at all. And this is what And I'll end by saying I think if you remove if you your words, if you remove If you remove. The smartness, we know about Ta-Nahisi that book would fit of somebody other people first and foremost. And man, I wish we I think we're all guilty But yeah, thank you. Thank you Thank you for writing and seeing where And yeah, I hope Maybe we'll do it Yeah, I would. Love it Thank you And thank you What now is produced in partnership with Day The show is executive Noah, Farnaz Again, our senior Claire Slaughter Music Mixing and Mastering Thank you so much Join me next Thursday of What Now will.