so I released a video a few months ago on why SMB NAS use cases. and I'll link that below. But in Western Digital and was buying Seagate disks. people's experiences with each drive manufacturer It basically came down to people refusing to prior experience with failures, and a few people was mostly very reasonable but it is clear that opinions on manufacturer's Drive quality which to a large source of disk reliability data and major manufacturers and look at their reliability biases out of the equation and look at the story So firstly the source of this data. Backblaze are about 16 years they are interesting, as they not performance; but they publish it publicly, and this reliability of around 345,000 drives that they these drives are from the four major brands, HGST. Now HGST was formed out of IBM and Hitachi, of Western Digital and until late 2015 it ran integration into Western Digital isn't clear from going to treat them separately for the purpose of thank you to Backblaze for sharing their data and really a lot about these drives. A quick note on contains and how I work with it for this analysis. gigabytes and put it into a SQL database, this around 345,000 disks used over the last 10 and a disks with a smaller number of M.2 and SSDs which made up of about 140 disk models of which 87 and there's four NAS models. The remainder being at the low end up to 22 terabytes. The standout 14 and 16 terabytes each with about 60,000 to 100,000 disks and four 22 terabyte disks, so as of June deployed. The data is made up about 55% Seagate, 19.5% from Samsung as branded from before the Seagate data analysis as the data set is too small to they are mostly two and a half inch disks. Before brands so you know where the pedigree, technology industry has been through decades of acquisition remaining today. And these are Seagate, Western 18% of market share respectively. You can see you've been around for a while you may recognize Maxtor, Quantum amongst others. According to data were shipped in Q1 2023 and this is a significant disks are still the go-to for large-scale cheap will see, reliability on these disks is generally last few years. So the first Insight is the vendor the number of operational drives, not just added here shows the net result of that. We will video the key here shows HGST in grey, Seagate in green, Toshiba in red; and Western Digital colored blue. Darker colors are the Enterprise drives, with are shown as a middle color but the deploy base graph. But you can see that Backblaze's originally who are now owned by Western Digital, and from deployed around March 2014, with Seagate Enterprise disks in service were Enterprise disks, which forward from that point. We can also see that but Seagate has been a consistent supplier with HGST a preference in early days and then a shift from them towards Toshiba. Later in the data we see were some WD drives deployed back in 2014, but a few years. There is a lot of data that tells us just be reliability it will also be related to warranty and pricing of course. Backblaze clearly which has shifted to enterprise and they have which is great. HGST drives are still available like WD favors branding drives as Western Digital of the HGST set has pretty much stopped in the Now let's dive into the drive deployments so we deployed over these 10 years. And this aligns with the data you see the date along the x-axis the y-axis at the side. The colors represent the Toshiba on the bottom graph. And then grey being going to use these colors throughout when multiple are using the average drive size it will primarily but can move around a little with some large or two large blobs back in 2013 which is the existing about 2.8 gigabytes. We then see primarily HGST and then eight terabyte disks moving to 12 in 2018. terabytes. The visualization clearly shows the the bubble will show how many are deployed and the For example this large Seagate blob in the middle average capacity of 12 terabytes. We're actually later. We see how this varies between consumer grey and the enterprise shown in gold. I think this capacity and quantity with normalized bubble sizes. drives, but it's clear that it moved towards almost this provides context about what Backblaze deployed data as this is what is really interesting and life. And here we see a chart that shows the of drives at the time of failure on the y-axis. So of the failures, but when they occurred. You would likely with increasing failure numbers as shown are deployed longer, their lifetime hours will not for a number specifically as the quantity not comparable. Instead these bubbles represent fail in each month. Some observations here are WD drives are large before 2021, but still spread can be explained by the small deploy base. Any result in a larger percentage. We also see that red have comparable failures with Toshiba having a happen a little earlier. But the fail percentages failure rates which suggest better survivability, but they are less consistent and more of them good indicator. One brand being lower or higher on than the batch of deployed disks was bought online angle, and the consistency of the trend that is more Recently more WD drives are being deployed but the scattered, and this is probably because they've firm trend. The other interesting thing we see is the 2013-2015 range and these are consumer drives thousand hours. It has been suggested that Backblaze's choice to use consumer drivers on this kind of workload is likely the reason, and they However looking in the data we see that consumer seem to have similar survival rates. There is a lot but this is one thing that is interesting. What is time frame were simply not at the same quality catastrophic flooding that massively impacted hard performed in the country. Seagate, Toshiba and WD move capacity elsewhere. But the data suggests that for drives deployed in the 2011-2013 time frame factor that led Backblaze to deploy consumer drives at right that despite the size of these bubbles, they example the very top to the right bubbles here that for all in-service Seagate drives only about an average drive power on time of around 46,000 The absence of bubbles in the bottom right of with the current deploy base from Seagate hours for the last couple of years. Which is averages and a deeper dive is needed to identify are the failure ages for failed drives, there's that did not fail and continue to run in service. deeper and the data tells us that there are some had higher failure rates and these skew the data the data because it's a problem if models without more analysis. What we can infer from what we've robust drive with Seagate following and Toshiba But it doesn't look like any of the brands had specifically bad models in the data that have that the drives themselves were actually not damaged in transit, but we need to dig deeper to be out on Western Digital as the historical data small deployment of WD NAS Drives had bad failure initial signs do look good. Maybe some of that pricing, brand reputation etc will all play a video below about my recent experiences with process. A really strong technical reason to go least for now. We're going to check back in lot more in the data that's worthy of exploration this this, includes failures versus decommissions the direct comparison of these numbers between specific models and failure rates and focusing on and if you want to catch that don't forget I mentioned earlier are especially interesting deployed at scale and then almost completely we're going to dig into that in a follow-up also. up, it really helps with channel growth and reach and that I should make more of it. And if you want own to add, please also drop them in the comments. and ideas from my viewers. And above all, thank