In this video, I want to share with you five in my piano learning. I think these are things comprehensively and faster. And I actually have share, because some of my students that are with could only do in my fifth year of piano playing. stuff right from the start of your piano playing. everything, if I were a beginner piano student understanding chord structure. I've been trying to the function of chords in music and I think here's blocks. And chords are sort of like learning this apple tree, or this watermelon. So how to build these simple Lego structures which bigger Lego structures. And once you have this music doesn't become so scary anymore, because that you already understand. I'm going to you and I want you to listen to them and Without going into too much detail, the second one 1. So in this little short piece of music, sharps nor flats. It's all white notes. So in the so in this chord there are the notes C, E and When you give time to study triads and chords, I just shared with you which is that music often such as this, it's almost like you develop your the next chord coming in. And then this then helps whole musical creating experience becomes easier. on chords. Just start with majors. So in a major is chord 1, chord 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. And then start next. For example, if I want to go from chord 1 a 1-4-5-1 progression. So some chords go well to example, if I do something like 1-4 instead of You know it just sort of sounds a little bit like going from 1, and I love going to 6 from 1. favorite 1 to end another one. If you're finding this channel. We do loads of free piano tutorials by subscribing. Second thing I wish my piano of a practice method called the AAR method&quot; I'm want an in-depth video you can click over here. piano beginners I see practice piano something This is something what I like to call &quot;gambling&quot;, which means you are basically executing notes awareness of what you're actually doing on trying your luck and gambling with your notes note. And you sort of try 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 little sections and thinking very deeply. What I results in just five minutes of practice is this the right notes. So you're allowed to throw a you must play the right notes. For example, So you saw there that I took my time where the notes strike with both right bit and gave myself time to very it successfully. So once you master that So what you saw there was I took my time to about it and execute correctly. So a little actually must play the sections that I set them play it between 5 to 7 correct times before absolutely make sure that they understand that need to be played before they can move on so. it hundred percent what to play you must give for your improvement. Number 3, I wish in my I work with adult learners all the is something that some adults just do pretty work on the students that can keep and And some students who can't quite keep So for the students that can't keep and beat, helps them to keep them beat. And what shoulder like this so I'm standing around I just tap the beat on the shoulder - okay 2 it's really great. I probably need to write a student feels the sense of beat and touch on have this really stable and consistent sense really good sense of pulse and rhythm. And because these two categories of people, they do piano players because the action of us striking Sometimes it's a bit harder to just keep that very are a lot of notes that your brain just needs to maybe you can try some simple dance moves or maybe If you want a really simple way to feel the beat or like I was saying how I tap the beat on watch that I've been using myself and also with my had success with this so I want to do another plug really simple. You tap a simple beat on it and Super helpful for keeping and beat and building teacher worked on more with me is to &quot;Sightread day and to start sight reading very, very easy first five years I was always more of a listener, on my oral and hearing skills to play piano rather really helped me to develop a strong sense of quickly. But it was at a huge cost of my reading I realized I hit a pretty significant limiter. And was I had pretty decent technique but I couldn't just took ages to read and learn pieces because point actually relates also to point Number 1. If wasn't sight reading much I wasn't exposing myself What that meant was when I was learning these out what those notes are which took ages. Now my chords come into the picture I sort of am able to them and visually process them a lot. I should that the rest of it would have been easier. I disclaimer and warn people against Synthesia. I want to quickly learn some of the notes to the individual notes falling I think it's really going certain stage. I think Synthesia is okay if you sight read simple pieces first. Build that chord scales, understanding music theory, I think you'll musician which will then allow you to have understand it and you have a more secure system our final fifth thing that I wish my piano teacher high goals but also to learn how to have fun&quot;. As start to learn more and more complex pieces. And pieces it's pretty easy to burn out. It's pretty So I wish in those times I would have learned piano and not to take it so seriously. And I would the opposite end as well. If you're always sort challenge, eventually I think you're going to stimulating exercise for you. Every time you challenges that aren't unachievable now but you you're a complete beginner, you should check out think you should eventually aim to play within or... ...and eventually even to So, just to sum up this number five it is &quot;To have fun to pull from opposite ends.&quot; In summary more. I'm wishing you can prioritize them in your learn them and understand them. Number 2 practice notes in small sections but 100 correct notes to prioritize a good sense of beat and pulse. start with real really simple ones first. Built on good about it and that will keep you motivated And Number 5 is to pull from opposite ends to have to have fun and relax on the piano. Because the have a bunch of videos here that teach people how make sure you SUBSCRIBE. Make sure you like