MICHELLE THALLER: Einstein thought that the all of space and all of time at once in a So every point in the past and every point of time you feel yourself in right now. Einstein believed that literally. One of his best friends died and he wrote how his friend still exists. Time is a landscape and if you had the right all of it laid out in front of you. All past, present, and future as a whole thing. And he said, &quot;Your husband, my friend, is He's still there. We can't see him where we are now, but we exists just as much as he ever has.&quot; Einstein believed that you, right now, had haven't been born yet, that everything that's perspective on the universe--you could see SAM HARRIS: Death is in some ways unacceptable. I mean, it's just an astonishing fact of our But I think, worse than that, is that if we in this world. I mean, the people die and disappear and we're There's just the sheer not knowing what happened And into this void, religion comes rushing happened to them; they're in a better place you die. You're going to get everything you want after Death is an illusion. There's no question that, if you could believe I mean, there's no other story you can tell say, to make her feel good. It is consoling to believe that the daughter going to be reunited in a few short years. There's no replacement for that. There doesn't need to be a replacement for I think we have to be... We have to just witness the cost of that. I mean, there are many obvious costs of that One is we just don't teach people how to grieve. Religion is the kind of the antithesis of You tell your child that your grandma's in That's religion. It would be better to equip your child for is a fact and we don't know what happens after And I'm not pretending to know that you get I don't know what happens after the physical I don't know what the relationship between I don't think anyone does know. Now, I think there are many reasons to be and about this idea that you could just migrate But I simply don't know about what... I don't know what I believe about death. And I don't think it's necessary to know in happily as possible. MICHAEL SHERMER: There's hardly anything bigger because, so here's the problem. We are all aware that death is real because 100 billion people have lived before us. They're all gone. Not one of them has come back, not even Jesus And yet you cannot conceive of what it's like Because if I asked you, &quot;Picture yourself Most people say, &quot;Well, I see myself there ones are hopefully grieving and there...&quot; No, you wouldn't see that, you wouldn't see to be conscious. To conceive of anything, you have to be a And if you're dead, you don't have any of Really, death is just nothing. And the whole idea of the afterlife is fairly I mean, the ancient Hebrews, their idea of You're just nothing. You're just gone, that's it. There's no place to go with angels and flowers It's just nothing. All that was added on centuries later. And probably for socio-political reasons, Offer the peasants something nice so that So again, we can't conceive of what it's like so this creates something of a paradox that Most people resolve it by thinking, &quot;Well, I'm just not going to do it. I'm going to live forever. Or I'm going to accept Jesus or whatever and Okay, yeah, but what if you're wrong? It's not a Pascal's wager where you can say, to gain,&quot; because which religion and their Which one are you going to pick? And while the Christians, &quot;We're the right Yeah, well, there's a billion Muslims who They don't accept Jesus as a savior. They don't think he was even the Messiah, Okay, so now what? And they believe just as strongly as you do. So what if your God is the wrong one? Your version is the wrong theory and they You wasted your whole life investing in this Why not jettison the whole idea entirely and all we have, whatever is in the hereafter. ROB BELL: If you look at, well, the Bible, was sort of the guiding... in the Old Testament, afterlife. The closest you get is a word for pit, a word and you're not here. So this idea that the whole thing is about of people have thought about it. And that the phrase &quot;eternal life&quot; was a very living in harmony with the divine right now. So eternal life wasn't a kind of life that Eternal life was understood to be a certain now, where you're in right relationship with other, with yourself. That was considered eternal life. One of the things I found most interesting he used the word hell, he was referring to the first century. The word he used was the word Gehenna and And the Valley of Hinnom was the South Valley That's where people toss their trash. So he's pretty much the only person who used And when he used this word, he was referring So essentially, he was saying, you as a human about whether you will move towards others will move towards people in violence and degradation. And when you do that, when you mistreat others, you're essentially creating a Gehenna on Earth. And so you're creating a hell on Earth. The idea that has animated a lot of religion being somewhere who if you don't say or do to send you to hell. Life is difficult enough without believing universe are against you and are going to BILL NYE: Everybody is going to die. I have never met anyone who is not going to I've never met anyone who is of a certain It sucks! Now here's the evidence for why I don't believe It would be a fine thing if you could... If I could have the capabilities, athletically, experience and intellect that I have right And then live forever? I say, bring it on. But my beloved grandmother who was brilliant She faded away, losing her faculties as she People my age have a lot of grandparents and as athletically capable or physically capable And so watching ourselves die is to me, overwhelming There's certainly no--it doesn't seem to you go back to your optimum age at your optimum sharpness. And if it turns out that that's true, then sharpness and athletic ability, cool, bring That'll be great, but what would you do differently? What would you do differently if you knew when you died somehow? Would you start committing crimes? Would you jump off a cliff so that you can I just don't think so. Instead, the finite length of our life is It's what makes us go. And it's what makes you try to accomplish kids or decide to live in another country, to invest your money or what you're going All of this is driven by the limited length So furthermore, if evolution is, in fact, to be, from my point of view--one of the so troubling is this whole idea of survival That's really a 19th-century usage, a British It doesn't mean that you're able to do the meters or something. It means you fit in the best. And the troubling, troubling consequence of super person. You just have to be good enough from an evolutionary You just have to be good enough to pass your After that, evolution, if it were an entity, You had your kids, your genes are passed on You lose your faculties as you run out of Evolution, certain diseases catch up with Certain auto-immune problems show up, certain Nature doesn't care. You were good enough. And so I encourage you to live your life as And as far as putting my brain in an electronic but I will evaluate it on a case by case basis. Do you want to be stuck in an Apple product stuck in a Microsoft product? It's a tough call. I'm sure books will be written, we'll see. MICHIO KAKU: Digital and genetic immortality Already in Silicon Valley, there are companies, known about you: your credit card transactions, about you can be digitized. And we have something called the Connectome entire human brain, all your memories, all and we'll put it on a disc and for the most Today, you go to the library and you take In the future, you'll go to the library and speeches, his mannerisms, his memories, his I would love to talk to Einstein. I would love to talk to him, even if it's known about him: his work, his writings, his so that I can talk to him. And one day we might be digitized as well. We'll be able to talk to our great, great, And they'll be able to talk to their great, we become immortal.