532 AD. Constantinople, the But this is no barbarian attack. Citizens of the Eastern Roman Empire are rioting, on fire. Trapped inside his own palace, Emperor Justinian He's already given into the mob's demands, But now the crowds acclaim a new emperor, It's his wife, Empress Theodora, who'll And his most trusted general, Belisarius, and save the regime. After centuries of imperial crisis, Justinian's few had dreamed possible: great victories itself, the reunification of the empire. Belisarius is the commander who will lead He will be remembered as Rome's last great 527 AD. It's more than 50 years since the fall of Rome itself, the Eternal City, is now part But though Rome may have fallen, the Empire The Eastern Roman Empire remains a force to An estimated 30 million people live under His authority stretches from the ravaged Balkans desert, to the mountains of Armenia. This Christian Empire remains unrivalled in and military might. But the new emperor, Justinian, faces formidable In 527 he succeeds Justin, his uncle and adopted his father as emperor in more than a century. Justinian is from a tough, peasant background He's highly educated, restless and driven, First, to restore harmony in the Christian or Orthodox, Christians and Miaphysites, who Second, to reform and rationalise Roman law; the Roman world from the barbarian. "The imperial majesty should not only be so that there may be good government in times But as for any Roman emperor, the ultimate For now, Justinian has good relations with in Italy. The Balkan frontier requires constant vigilance: never quiet for long. But it's in the east that Justinian faces Sassanid Empire, a rival superpower of the This frontier has been a battleground for defeats, including one emperor captured, another For most of the last century, the shared menace But it could not last. In 525, the Christian king of Iberia in the the Persian King Kavadh tried to impose Zoroastrian The Romans send military aid, and the conflict raids. When the Romans begin building a new fort Roman troops and destroy the building works. One of the Roman generals to escape this debacle Clearly he is not blamed, because the next Roman troops in the East, though he's barely Belisarius and the Emperor are old comrades, the Balkans. His wife Antonina is the best friend of Empress - the daughter of an actress. With both Roman and Persian empires mobilising first major test as a commander. The troops that Belisarius commands are far Rome conquered its empire centuries ago. Hard lessons, learned from fighting Huns and army. For centuries, cavalry was the neglected arm to foreign auxiliaries. Now heavy armoured cavalry, known as clibanarii form the army's elite shock units. Some armoured cavalry, as well as koursoures The Romans, in imitation of the Huns and Persian, The best units are the bucellarii - the ration. These handpicked soldiers form a general's Long service, good pay and equipment, plus most reliable troops. Roman archers are now armed with the more And while infantry still made up around two-thirds forming a secure base from which the cavalry The standard infantry unit is also smaller, - about regimental size, from 1,000 to 1,500 They're more mixed, with armoured veterans missile troops behind them, to unleash a barrage Finally - Rome boosts its military strength had once despised, including Huns, Goths and Those outside the empire are recruited as Those within serve as foederati (federates), The military organisation of the empire has Two central field armies, stationed on either Militum Praesentalis, and form a strategic Field armies based in Thrace, Illyria, Armenia Millitum, and form regional, rapid-reaction The frontiers are held by the limitanei. These are the lowest paid and least well-equipped outposts until reinforcements arrive. Limitanei are organised into local groups, word duke. "Yet the thought has many times occurred which accrue to states through History, which of those who have gone before, and resists oblivion." The historian Procopius is our key witness He was born around 500 in the city of Caesarea In 527, he was appointed assessor, or legal He effectively became the general's secretary, Working from notes and writing in Greek, he Wars, in 551. Procopius's account is highly favourable But there will be a sting in the tail - a emerge later in the tale... 530 AD. King Kavadh sends an army to capture the Roman Today the ruins of Dara lie on the Turkish-Syrian the Roman fortress that once stood here. Belisarius is warned that 40,000 Persian troops He can only assemble 25,000 troops to meet For reasons that are unclear, Belisarius decides to the south. His men dig ditches to strengthen their position, The infantry is placed in the centre, with Two groups of 600 Hun mercenaries are positioned At the rear, he places his reserve, his own When the huge Persian army arrives before The first day begins with a stand off. The two generals exchange letters: Belisarius further negotiations; Firouz tells the Roman Dara by nightfall. The Persians launch one probing attack against defences. The Persians are driven off with seven killed. When a young Persian warrior rides between him in single combat, his offer is accepted Andreas has no military training, but he's Before the Persian knows what's happening, his lance, then dismounts to finish him off, Procopius. Andreas later kills a second Persian challenger, The next morning Firouz receives 10,000 reinforcements, With odds of two to one in his favour, he Firouz forms up his army with infantry and heavy cavalry, the feared savaran, on both He also divides his army into two parts: a troops can be rotated into the fighting. He keeps a unit of Immortals, the elite Persian But first, he waits. He knows the Romans usually eat in the morning, are accustomed to eating later in the day. Finally, at noon, he gives the order. The Persian army advances to within bowshot, Persia is famed for the skill of its archers. But today, the wind favours the Romans. When the archers run out of arrows, the Persian This is the moment Belisarius has prepared The savaran crash into his left wing, driving But the Persians haven't spotted 300 Heruli left, waiting for this moment. They rush out from cover and attack the Persian Then 600 Huns fall on their flank. Under this onslaught, the Persian cavalry Firouz switches to the other flank, attacking Immortals. The Roman cavalry breaks under the pressure, But Belisarius has seen the threat. He recalls the Huns that are pursuing the groups, as well as his own Bucellarii, against It's the decisive moment of the battle. The Persian left wing suddenly finds itself Those that can't escape are cut down. Sunicas, one of the Hun captains, kills a himself, who commands the Persian left wing. With the elite units of the Persian army in Most are peasant conscripts, no match for Soon the entire Persian army is in rout. Belisarius, content with his victory, and halts the pursuit. Procopius tells us 8,000 Persians lay dead accurate. "For on that day the Persians had been defeated not happened for a long time." Belisarius has won a brilliant victory for Later that year Sittas, Magister Militum of at Satala. The war is swinging in Rome's favour. But the following year, encouraged by a Samaritan large-scale raid along the Euphrates River. Belisarius assembles an army to meet them. But having ravaged Roman territory, the Persians Belisarius shadows them. His subordinates urge him to destroy the enemy So against his better judgement, he attacks at Callinicum. The battle is a disaster. Rome's Arab allies, the Ghassanids, hold But Procopius accuses them of fleeing at the Persian cavalry rolls up the entire Roman In desperation, the Roman infantry form a They hold off the enemy cavalry, buying time the river. Callinicum is a humiliation for Rome, and His own role in the battle is unclear. According to Procopius he remained with the Another source claims he was among the first It had clearly been a serious blunder to give an unnecessary battle. Belisarius is removed from command, and recalled Justinian is forced to pay a subsidy and make Not with King Kavadh, who dies that year, Khosrow will prove to be the greatest of all Immortal Soul - and will prove a dangerous When major rioting breaks out in Constantinople eager to restore his tarnished reputation. The riots have been instigated by the factions These are more than chariot-racing fans - the At first they seek only the release of jailed But then, there are calls for a new emperor It's likely that Justinian's rivals in Justinian hesitates. He wonders if they should flee the capital. Then Theodora speaks up. Life as a fugitive, she declares, would be Better the old saying, "royal purple makes In others words, better to go down fighting. The Emperor is emboldened by Theodora's general, Mundus, to crush the revolt. Belisarius's hardened troops launch a sudden There is no mercy. The streets run with blood. The final death toll is estimated at 30,000 The next day, Justinian orders the execution pawns in somebody else's plot. Their bodies are tossed into the sea. Thanks to Theodora and Belisarius, Justinian's A Roman Emperor relied on one quality more Belisarius has proved his beyond doubt. Now Justinian needs to shore up support for favour - with a military victory. He has his costly peace with the Sassanid So he will turn west. A war to reclaim Rome's lost provinces from Justinian. Such a mission can be entrusted to only one When the Western Roman Empire was overrun Vandals emerged as perhaps the most enterprising From central Europe, they marched, killed into Spain... and in 429, crossed into North There, he founded a kingdom, and took up piracy In 455 Geiseric sacked Rome itself. 75 years later, Eastern Romans and Vandals Emperor Justinian's relations with the Vandal The two men exchanged gifts, and though Justinian he was pleased that he did at least allow peace. Then, in 530 AD, there was a coup in the Kingdom Gelimer, Hilderic's cousin and heir, seized Unlike his hapless predecessor, humiliated proven warrior, and cunning to boot. When Justinian scolded Gelimer as a usurper, mind his own affairs... Then, for good measure, blinded one of Hilderic's Three years pass. Justinian makes peace with the Sassanid Empire, Now, he decides, it's time to teach Gelimer Imperial propaganda, and the historian Procopius, Vandals as part of a long-held plan to reconquer belief in God and the liberty of our subjects". Modern historians are more sceptical. Justinian needs a victory to bolster his regime. Gelimer's actions have provided just provocation. And the recovery of North Africa's wealthy Perhaps self-interest, opportunism and a sense in his decision to go to war. Many try to dissuade the Emperor. His senior advisor, John of Cappadocia, warns operation. His generals are haunted by the fate of the huge fleet destroyed by Vandal fireships off Justinian is not deterred. He orders the fleet and army to assemble at Belisarius, restored to the rank of Magister is given complete authority over the campaign. His force includes 10,000 infantry, under divided between foederati and regular Roman Heruli mercenaries, and Belisarius's own An old comrade, John of Armenia, will be his chief staff officer. It is not a large army, but most are hardened Belisarius will also be accompanied by his provokes comments from conservative Romans, She will prove an insightful and effective agent to her patron and friend, Empress Theodora. The fleet sets sail in June, 533. Belisarius believes that much will depend But before they've even cleared the Hellespont, Belisarius has them hanged in full view of Then he addresses the army. &quot;If I were speaking to men going to war for you that justice can be our greatest ally For those who don't understand the fortunes alone... But you, I think, know that although it's the contest." This is why, Belisarius warns them, he will He concludes: "I shall not consider any one of you my enemy, unless his hands are clean." The fleet continues its voyage, making stops Along the way 500 men die from eating mouldy measures by the stingy John of Cappadocia. In Sicily, Belisarius receives fresh supplies There, as he ponders his next move, he receives Not only are the Vandals completely unaware brother Tzazo, with most of the Vandal fleet Belisarius might have been tempted to land are already in revolt against the Vandals. But reassured by the absence of the Vandal within striking distance of their capital, The landing is unopposed. But Belisarius is furious when some of his He has them punished, then speaks once more "...the Libyans, being Romans from of old, now your lack of self-control has made the He warns them that lawlessness will lose them defeat and death. But with good behaviour... "...you will have God on your side, the will be at your mercy." Belisarius orders some of his most trusted to see if the people will come over to the The soldiers enter discreetly at dawn. They inform local elders that Belisarius has restore their freedom. The townsmen agree to let the army into the Belisarius is gracious and generous to the Crucially, his men behave well. They pay for supplies, and win the trust of Procopius, an eyewitness, records that from their own country. Belisarius begins his advance along the coastal He knows Gelimer is somewhere inland, and So he orders John of Armenia, his second-in-command, of the main army. Belisarius himself commands a strong rearguard. The Huns are posted as a flank guard, 2 miles Their sea flank is protected by the fleet, The army marches about 10 miles each day, When Gelimer receives news of the Roman landing, in Carthage. First he is to execute Hilderic and the other Then he is to gather all his men, and join and destroy Belisarius's army. Ad Decimum, 10 miles south of Carthage. Here the coastal road passes through a narrow Gelimer knows Belisarius will have to pass will separate him from his fleet. Ammatas is to hold the road to Carthage, and and his nephew Gibamund will fall on their Belisarius and his army approach. Roman patrols report skirmishes with the Vandals. Gelimer is close. A few miles short of Ad Decimum, Belisarius vanguard ahead to scout the road. At Ad Decimum, they find Ammatas, with just He has arrived too early. The rest of his men are still strung out on John and the bucellarii charge. Ammatas fights bravely, killing 12 men before The Vandal survivors flee back towards Carthage, Groups of Vandals coming up the road see the They think the whole Roman army must be headed They panic and join the rout. John and his men slay all the Vandals they Meanwhile, on the edge of the salt lake, the According to a Hun custom, a single warrior This is the first time Gibamund and his men reputation. They are unnerved by the lone horseman, and When the Huns charge, the Vandals quickly Gibamund is one of those killed in the rout. Gelimer is advancing between low hills that and the fate of Gibamund. Belisarius is also unaware that battle has forward, expecting some skirmishing with the When his cavalry reach Ad Decimum, they see Then several thousand Vandal horsemen appear The foederati commanders have no idea whether After a brief clash, the entire force retreats Gelimer is now in position to deal Belisarius trap and destroy John's isolated vanguard. If he moves south, he can hit the Roman cavalry Instead, Gelimer discovers the body of his As their king oversees his brother's burial, Belisarius is given a crucial breathing space. He rallies his cavalry, reorganises them, The Roman cavalry fall on the Vandals with The enemy are scattered. Gelimer and the survivors fly west. The road to Carthage is open. "And it fell to Belisarius that day to win or indeed any of the men of olden times." Belisarius, wary of ambush, waits till dawn into Carthage. Once more, his troops behave well. The citizens of Carthage are respected. This peaceful occupation of such a wealthy Belisarius sits on Gelimer's throne, and him. He attends to the requests and pleas of local But the Vandals aren't beaten yet. Belisarius receives news - intended for Gelimer revolt, and is returning with 5,000 men. Reinforced, Gelimer advances on Carthage. Belisarius leads out his army to face him, The Roman cavalry camps near a small brook... for battle while the Romans are still making But again, Gelimer fails to exploit an advantage. He does nothing, as the Romans deploy... and the march from Carthage, gets into position. It's the Romans who attack first, when John the Vandal centre. Twice, he is repulsed. But the third attack is made with greater Tzazo himself is killed within sight of Gelimer. Belisarius orders the rest of his army forward. The Vandals flee, leaving behind 800 dead. The Romans have lost just 50 men. The Vandals take refuge in their camp, which But when Belisarius brings up his infantry The fight is entirely one-sided. Panic soon engulfs the Vandal camp, as everyone The Romans kill the men, enslave the women Belisarius cannot restore discipline until Gelimer flees towards the mountains. Belisarius sends John in pursuit with 200 killed by one of his own men. Belisarius grieves at the death of his old He sends Pharas and his Heruli to take over The Vandal king takes refuge with the Berber Three months later, hunger, and the promise surrender. Meanwhile, Belisarius sends one of his officers brother, Tzazo. The island quickly submits to Roman rule, From Carthage, detachments and emissaries the Roman Empire. Settlements and outposts still suffer Berber But Belisarius delegates this war to his able He sails for Constantinople with his prisoners, He has learned that a small group of officers, the Emperor that Belisarius plans to found Belisarius soon persuades Justinian in person absolute. The Emperor rewards him with a triumph - the years, the Romans had celebrated their greatest It's the first triumph to be awarded to He is also awarded the title of Consul - once long since reduced to an honorary title. Belisarius's loot, including much of what in front of the citizens of Constantinople, including King Gelimer himself, who is heard "Vanity of vanities... all is vanity." "...whether such events as these ever took kingdom at the height of its wealth and military time by 5,000 men... For such was the number through the whole war against the Vandals. For whether this happened by chance or valour, Known to history as the Vandalic War, Belisarius's wealthiest provinces in just 6 months, with The Battle of Dara had proven his skill as In North Africa, his victory comes through successful hearts and minds campaign. But already, it's clear there are those and seek his downfall. Belisarius will not have long to rest on his A murder in far-off Tuscany is about to lead The victim is Amalasuntha, daughter of Theoderic Her death means war between the Eastern Empire to the gates of Rome itself. Sixty years have passed since the Western Many kings emerged to rule over its shattered Above them all, towered Theoderic the Great. With Eastern Roman approval, he'd led his He overthrew and killed Odoacer, the man who'd his own Goth superstate. Theoderic, an Arian Christian, worked with with the Eastern Roman Empire. To Emperor Anastasius, he wrote, "Our royalty good purpose, a copy of the only Empire." Procopius, the 6th century historian and aide as "in name a tyrant, but in fact an emperor, themselves in that office." In the eyes of his supporters, Theoderic had name. But the succession would unravel his great Theoderic had three daughters. So his heir was to have been his son-in-law But he died four years before the king, in The succession passed to Theoderic's 10-year-old His mother, the highly educated and formidable In defending her position, Amalasuntha made her son died aged just 18... one of those In 535, he has Amalasuntha imprisoned on an Weeks later, assassins arrive. They're rumoured to be vengeful relatives regency. The daughter of Theoderic the Great is strangled Theodohad thinks he can quietly eliminate But Amalasuntha had been a trusted ally of And he is looking for an excuse for war... "And the emperor, upon learning what had upon the war, being in the ninth year of his For Justinian, chaos at the Ostrogoth court After success in North Africa, he wants Italy gains will be immense. Before her death, Amalasuntha had offered asylum. Now Justinian pressures Theodohad - a notoriously deal... or face war. Justinian's tough diplomacy is backed up the army in Illyria, advances into Goth-controlled city of Split. Belisarius, meanwhile, is ordered to sail there will put up a fight. Only the garrison of Palermo offers resistance, The rest of Sicily submits to the Romans without On the last day of 535, Belisarius marks the the crowds in Syracuse as his troops march As negotiations continue in the Goth capital envoy, Solomon - Praetorian Prefect of North news from Carthage. The army, angered by late pay and religious and mutinied. Belisarius immediately sails for Carthage His own formidable reputation, plus generous of 2,000 troops, whom he leads out to face The mutineer army is a motley crew of Romans, slaves, commanded by Stotzas, a former bucellarius. They have no generals, and little discipline. When Stotzas tries to manoeuvre his army into Belisarius immediately launches an all-out Stotzas and his army turn and run. Belisarius has saved Carthage. But the war in North Africa against Berbers This task falls to Solomon, as Belisarius mutiny among his own troops. In the Balkans, meanwhile, a Goth counterattack his son, and the Romans make a tactical withdrawal. When news of this minor triumph reaches King rejects all Justinian's demands. Belisarius receives new orders. He is to cross the Strait of Messina, and Belisarius lands in Italy with barely 8,000 The bulk of his troops are infantry, including Taurus Mountains of Anatolia. His cavalry includes Hun and Berber mercenaries, troops maintained by Belisarius, and other As in North Africa, he is accompanied on campaign ally of Empress Theodora. That the Emperor entrusts the campaign to field an army four times its size - indicates But it is also a sign that he has badly underestimated Belisarius's army is welcomed by Southern Naples. This city has strong walls and a garrison Belisarius appeals directly to its citizens, of the dire consequences of an assault. "I pray that an ancient city, which has may not meet with such a fortune, especially The citizens of Naples are divided, but ultimately, the city. When Belisarius's troops sneak into the slaughter of Goths and Italian citizens alike... The main Ostrogoth army has been standing Theodohad, never suited to military command save Naples. It's his own death sentence. He is deposed, and killed. Vitigis becomes the new king of the Ostrogoths. He is in his 60s, but he's an experienced Great. He assumes that Belisarius must be leading more time to gather his forces. He also plans to negotiate a truce with the the war against the Romans. So leaving 4,000 men to hold Rome, Vitigis Belisarius garrisons Naples, and advances Rome. But as he nears the great city... the Goths They march out thought the Porta Flaminia, the Porta Asinaria - a gate which, though 60 years after the fall of the Western Empire, Belisarius duly despatches the keys to the Rome in the 6th century is still a great city, In its imperial heyday, Rome's population just a fifth of that. But it remains the seat of the Roman Senate, and cultural significance to all Romans. The city is also notoriously difficult to it. The famous Aurelian Walls are crumbling, and small army to easily hold. The Goths had also worried about Rome's them. Belisarius is down to 7,000 men - not enough So he sends detachments to garrison key strongholds which he hopes will delay the inevitable Goth ...While in Rome, he and his men begin hurried The walls are repaired, and merlons are added. A deep moat is dug around the city. The granaries are filled with grain. All Rome's adult male citizens are conscripted Vitigis, meanwhile, has been told how small Embarrassed by his earlier caution, he gives on Rome. His chief concern is to get there before Belisarius to flee. "'And whoever of you has hopes of setting his judgment. For as long as Belisarius lives, it is impossible Such were the words of Belisarius." 537 AD. In early spring, Vitigis leads a huge Goth the Via Flaminia, sweeping past the small Belisarius plans to fight a delaying action Salarian Bridge. But his infantry, terrified by the size of a fight. Belisarius is left facing the Goth army with He orders his men to charge. Belisarius himself fights in the front rank. Scores of men fall around him. Goth spears finally drive Belisarius and his At first, its defenders don't recognise won't let him in. He's forced to launch another desperate Finally the gate is opened, and he and his The siege of Rome begins. The city is too large for Vitigis to completely He builds 7 fortified camps north of the city... Rome with water for 800 years. There will be no baths for the Romans. But the city's wells will still supply drinking When Belisarius rejects calls to surrender, siege towers for a major assault. 18 days later, they attack. But their inexperience in siege warfare is Their towers are pulled by oxen. The Romans shoot all the animals, and the The Goths assault the city from multiple directions. The Mausoleum of Hadrian, converted into a But eventually, the Goths are thrown back That night, the Romans celebrate a great victory, Both sides prepare for a long siege. Belisarius is an inspiring presence in the others begin to despair. He has written to Justinian, urgently requesting Now he oversees every aspect of the city's He orders all non-combatants to travel south He has the keys to the gates changed regularly, Berber mercenaries patrol at night with dogs, His wife, Antonina, also takes an active role. When the pope is suspected of conducting secret us lord pope Silverius, what have we done betray us to the Goths?" The Pope is arrested and sent out of the city. A month into the siege, Belisarius receives mostly Huns and Slavs led by Martinus and Belisarius has seen that the Goths have no Now he can use his own to make hit and run A few hundred horsemen will ride within range then fall back under covering fire from the Procopius counts 67 actions of this type, Almost all are won by the Romans because of The victories raise morale, and frustrate But they will not break the siege. The situation deteriorates dramatically when the mouth of the River Tiber, making it much By September, six months into the siege, hunger Even the army's mules are killed to make The citizens of Rome beg Belisarius to stake city. But he refuses, telling them: "You act as though you were playing dice But it is not my custom to choose the short Instead, Belisarius sends Antonina and Procopius to requisition all grain, and every soldier 500 men and a convoy of supplies are soon They're followed by 1,800 cavalry reinforcements Then 3,000 Isaurians arrive at Naples aboard After months of delay, the vast resources to Belisarius's aid. The garrison of Rome launch a series of diversionary These allow the supplies, under Antonina's The threat of starvation is ended. It's the last straw for Vitigis. His own men have been camped outside Rome themselves decimated by disease and hunger. The Ostrogoth king asks for a truce, to open He offers Justinian all of southern Italy. But it is not enough. The initiative has swung to Belisarius. Belisarius has sent an elite force of 2,000 behind enemy lines. When the Goths break the terms of the truce, Almost all the Goth warriors are away on military Their farms and settlements are completely John sacks, burns and plunders at will, enslaving Romans are not harmed. Vitigis's uncle gathers a small force to They're no match for his bucellarii. The Goth force is massacred. John ignores the Goth strongholds at Urbino citizens, occupies the walled city of Ariminum, at Ravenna. Vitigis has no choice but to abandon the siege, Against the odds, under-resourced and outnumbered, most epic sieges - a siege that has lasted Because of him, the city of Romulus and the The war against the Goths in Italy seems to Belisarius's position appears unassailable. But as every emperor knows, the history of by the treachery of overmighty generals. Belisarius's victories are as glorious as How can Justinian not regard him with suspicion? In 538, Italy's largest and most prosperous the Romans, Mediolanum. Its citizens wish to be reunited with the Belisarius sends a small force to aid them. They defeat local Goth forces at Ticinum, But in central Italy, Belisarius faces a dilemma. One of his best generals, John, nephew of cavalry. Now King Vitigis and the Ostrogoth army is in the city. Belisarius orders two trusted officers to They are to swap places with John and his operations. But when the reinforcements arrive at Ariminum, Instead, he adds the infantry to his own force, Within days, John is cut off, and under siege. The Goths make their first assault with a In heavy fighting, the Romans beat them back. But John does not have enough supplies to John's insubordination puts Belisarius's He will lose some of his best troops if Ariminum But a dash north risks leaving several, strong experienced Goth warriors at Auximum. Belisarius's advance meets with early success, without a fight. As he ponders his next move, news arrives near Firmium. Belisarius marches to join them, and meet men in the empire - Narses the Eunuch. Narses - Praepositus Sacri Cubiculi - Grand closest advisor. As a eunuch, he can pose no dynastic threat power and influence. Narses had distinguished himself during the switch sides... while Belisarius and Mundus Belisarius has military command in Italy, as important as Narses. So he convenes a council of war, seeking agreement Belisarius's officers argue that John has They should not risk the army to save him. But Narses is close to John, and thinks differently: "If John treated your orders with insolence, been punished enough, since it is now in your enemy. But you must ensure that neither we nor the For if the Goths capture Ariminum, it will Roman general, as well as an army and city And the disaster will not stop there, but As the council meets, a message arrives from His men are starving, and unless relieved, It is agreed that an attempt must be made In an elaborate operation, 1,000 troops are One force will advance straight up the coastal Another force will move up by sea, threatening While Belisarius and Narses march inland, The plan works perfectly. Vitigis receives reports of Roman forces closing Fearing encirclement, he abandons the siege, But despite their success, all is not well When Belisarius invites John to thank those that his only debt is to Narses. His words fuel the growing distrust between In the words of Procopius, historian and eyewitness, regard each other with great suspicion." The chain of command among Eastern Roman generals stone. Referring decisions back to the Emperor takes rest on his ability to win over his senior It's possible Justinian encourages such are tempted to challenge his rule. Is this why he has sent Narses to Italy, to We don't know. But for the war in Italy, the consequences John and other discontented officers begin It is beneath his dignity, they tell him, When Belisarius reveals his plan to methodically Italy, prior to an advance on Ravenna, Narses The strategy is too cautious. Instead, Narses proposes an immediate advance the Goths. In frustration, Belisarius produces a letter "We have not sent our steward Narses to We wish Belisarius alone to command the whole It is the duty of all to obey him in the interest To which Narses replies, 'your strategy The army splits into two factions, each pursuing situation, but fortunately for the Romans, Belisarius is able to take Urbino when its Narses sends John to capture Forum Cornelii, But in the north a storm is brewing. "This city of Milan far surpasses all the every other sort of prosperity... this city, I say, has fallen into great danger... to use many words...But you, I say, must defend possible speed. If you hesitate to come to us in the present after suffering the most cruel fate possible..." 539 AD. Milan is held by just 300 Roman troops and The Goths have reacted swiftly to its loss, king's nephew. He is supported by a huge force of Burgundians Goth ally, though how far he can be trusted By winter, Milan is starving. Its people are eating mice and dogs. Belisarius, besieging Urvivento, orders a But when its commanders learn of the size River Po, and refuse to go further without By now, John only obeys orders from Narses. By the time Belisarius has written to Narses it is too late. The garrison of Milan ignore their commander's own surrender... abandoning the civilians Goths and Burgundians slaughter every male Women and children are given to the Burgundians One of the greatest cities in Italy is plundered The destruction of Milan is the direct consequence Shocked into action, Justinian recalls Narses Belisarius once more has sole, undisputed The northern part of the country has now been no harvests are gathered. Vitigis cannot campaign without supplies, Roman forces can be supplied by sea, with But in the countryside, Italian peasants begin "I will now tell of the appearance they All of them first became lean and pale, for on itself", to use the old expression... As the evil developed, all moisture left them leather more than anything else... They changed from a livid to a black colour, torches. Their faces always wore an expression of amazement, Procopius estimates that famine claims 50,000 and rumours of cannibalism. When King Theodebert himself suddenly leads attacking Goths and Romans alike, he finds His army, unable to find supplies and decimated back across the Alps. The war grinds on, as Belisarius besieges Auximum is impregnable. Only starvation will force the Goths to give Skirmishes are fought in the surrounding hills, parties. Belisarius is amazed by the Goths' determination. Eventually, he learns from a prisoner that from Vitigis to the garrison, promising help, Belisarius arrests the traitor, then sends they see fit. They burn him alive, in full view of the enemy. The garrisons of Faesulae, then Auximum, are Belisarius grants them both generous terms. Then, with his rear secure, he begins his Reinforcements from Dalmatia approach from Ravenna is protected by a lagoon, marshes, Parts of its 9-metre-high, brick curtain wall later Venetian fortifications. It is strongly held. But the Roman noose is tightening. A vital grain shipment along the Po River A mysterious fire breaks out in the city's The Goth king puts much hope in his nephew 4,000 men. But when the troops learn that their own strongholds home. In despair, Vitigis agrees to open negotiations. Imperial envoys arrive from Constantinople. But the treaty they offer to Vitigis is so believing he's on the cusp of complete victory. Without Belisarius's endorsement, the Goths Sidelining King Vitigis, Goth nobles send secret offer to make him Emperor of the West Belisarius swears only that no harm will come An oath to rule over the Goths, he will swear The Goth delegation is satisfied. What man would turn down the offer of a crown? The gates of the city are opened, and Belisarius He ensures grain arrives in the city quickly. Then he tells the Goth warriors - who outnumber There is no plundering of private property, Belisarius has triumphed... but it will soon Goths. "While I watched the entry of the Roman to me that the outcome of events is determined on their part, but that there is some supernatural and leading them in such a way that nothing pass. For though the Goths were greatly superior neither lost a great battle nor been humbled captives by the weaker army, and regarded The days pass. The Goths await an announcement from Belisarius West, and rule over them. It never comes. Belisarius has no intention of betraying the He's allowed the Goths to think that he'll swiftly as possible. The Goths begin to feel they've been tricked Suspicions which are confirmed when Belisarius He leaves with the Goth treasury and his prisoners, Belisarius's rivals ensure that Justinian throne. But for the moment, the Emperor faces a far One of Vitigis's last acts as king had been King Khosrow, in far-off Persia... with a Eastern Roman Empire. Khosrow needs no encouragement. He's been watching, as Justinian strips in the west. Now Sassanian armies are on the march. His huge army marches along the banks of the Sura falls before them. Hierapolis is ransomed for two thousand pounds Beroea burns. Then to the horror of all Romans, Khosrow the Roman capital of the Near East. The city burns. Soldiers flee. Civilians are massacred. The historian Procopius writes: "I become dizzy as I write about such a to remember. I cannot understand why it should be God's and then to obliterate them for no cause that After years of victories, Justinian's empire The Emperor can send only his cousin Germanus army to follow. But there is no great army. Roman forces are tied down fighting Justinian's Instead, he will despatch his greatest general, Little knowing that the empire is about to unlike anything the world has ever seen before. Trouble had been brewing on Justinian's The Eastern Roman and Sassanid empires - the signed a Treaty of Eternal Peace just eight But Khosrow had looked on with growing alarm, first North Africa... and then Italy. Half in jest, Khosrow asks Justinian for his are only possible because he's granted the But the joke is wearing thin. Khosrow receives envoys from the Goths in aid. Justinian, they tell him, "has conceived he will march against the Persians with those the name of friendship nor any of his sworn In 540, Khosrow accuses the Eastern Emperor trying to bribe his Arab allies to switch Then he attacks. Justinian has stripped the frontier of its There is no Roman force that can stand up Antioch is sacked. Survivors are enslaved and sent to Persia. Khosrow then marches to the coast, and symbolically He moves on to Apamea, where he demands a keep their piece of the True Cross. He then fixes the local chariot race so that - lose. Justinian agrees to pay Khosrow 5,000 pounds in exchange for a truce. Satisfied, Khosrow sets off for home. However, he does not let the truce prevent route. It is the Eastern Roman Empire's greatest "Everyone was talking about Belisarius. He was credited with two victories such as man: he had brought two kings captive to Constantinople, spoils of the nations and wealth of Geiseric In the Eastern Roman capital, Belisarius has He and his entourage draw admiring crowds But he does not have long to enjoy his success. In early 541, Justinian sends Belisarius east, and ensure there is no repeat of the previous Belisarius's wife Antonina has accompanied and Italy, and proved herself a valuable advisor But this time she remains in Constantinople, Belisarius gathers all available forces at He has his own household troops, the elite Ostrogoths who have joined him in Italy... Rome's Ghassanid Arab allies, led by Al-Harith... and several thousand limitanei, the Empire's Procopius does not tell us the size of these based on circumstantial evidence. Local Roman forces are shaken by the events Belisarius spends several weeks reorganising their shattered morale. When Belisarius learns that Khosrow and the campaigning in Lazica... he decides to go city of Nisibis. This fortified, frontier city is too strong But Belisarius hopes the garrison can be lured to rush into the city, mingled with the retreating Belisarius camps 5 miles from Nisibis: close but far enough that they can't easily retreat But one Roman commander, Peter, camps far Worse, he ignores Belisarius's warning to are most likely to strike. The Persian commander Nabedes spots this isolated Peter immediately sends a rider to Belisarius But Belisarius and the rest of the army have their way. Before they can reach Peter, his force is After a brief fight, his troops scatter. 50 A Roman standard is lost. When Belisarius arrives with reinforcements, the city leaving behind more than a hundred But the loss of a Roman standard, in such Belisarius marches on to the Persian fort His first attack is repelled. He digs in for a siege, while ordering Al-Harith's River, and raid deep into Assyria. It has been many years since the Romans have There is little resistance, and much plunder. Sisauranon runs out of food, and surrenders But the Roman general has run out of time. His troops are exhausted by the extreme summer His limitanei wish to return to their homes raiding season. While Al-Harith and his men have gone AWOL. It later emerges they've ridden straight Romans. Belisarius, having achieved as much as he into Roman territory. "At the opening of spring, Khosrow, son into the land of the Romans with a large army, The Emperor Justinian, upon learning of the them once more." 542 AD. Belisarius spends the winter in Constantinople. But in early spring, news arrives that Khosrow Belisarius races back to the eastern front, the Roman postal service, with fresh remounts A journey that normally takes a month, can Local commanders warn that Khosrow is approaching They want to hole up in Hierapolis, and hide Belisarius has a different plan. "If Khosrow were attacking any other people and sensible. But as immediately after leaving here, this of the Emperor, be assured that to die bravely without a fight. For this would justly be called not salvation So come as quickly as possible to Europos, hope to deal with the enemy as God permits." Khosrow is counting on another lucrative plundering This time he plans to raid Palestine, and But when he hears Belisarius himself has arrived, he hesitates. He sends an envoy, Abandanes, to meet Belisarius but really to gauge his strength. For almost the first time in 10 years, Procopius He has remained in Constantinople. In fact, his days of campaigning with the Nonetheless, he provides a detailed description Belisarius meets Khosrow's envoy far from number of his most fearsome warriors, including They have been hand-picked to make an impression. All are tall, strongly-built men, armed to by the arrival of a Persian envoy. Belisarius himself speaks in a carefree manner: "This course that Khosrow has chosen is If other men have a dispute with their neighbour, only go to war if they do not receive satisfaction. But he first comes into the midst of the Romans, With that, Belisarius dismisses the envoy. The envoy returns to Khosrow, and urges the The enemy are not like any men he's seen Their commander is wise and imposing. The king should withdraw as soon as possible. Khosrow takes his advice. The Persian army crosses the Euphrates, and Belisarius appears to have bluffed a stronger of the empire from plunder and pillage. According to Procopius, "The Romans praised He seemed to have achieved greater glory in Gelimer or Witigis captive to Constantinople. In truth, it was an achievement of great importance all the Romans were hiding in terror behind Belisarius and his bucellarii, putting on that the Persian king abandons his campaign... It's a famous and memorable scene. But did it ever happen? Many historians believe that something even he'd discovered the Empire was riddled with "During these times there was a pestilence, mankind. Now in the case of all other scourges sent be given by daring men... But for this calamity it is quite impossible in thought any explanation, except indeed The 6th century world is full of strange and Sometimes even a highly-educated man like and trust in God. Of the year 536, he wrote, "It came about took place. The whole year, the sun gave forth its light seemed much like an eclipse, for its beams From the time when this thing happened men nor any other thing that brings death." Experts now believe Procopius was observing eruption. In fact, a cluster of volcanic activity around known as the 'Late Antique Little Ice Age'. Its impact is impossible to measure, but it worsened the famine that Procopius witnessed Such shortages made the population weaker, "It originated among the Egyptians who live From there it branched out in two directions, rest of Egypt, the second coming to the Palestinians Plague is first recorded in the Nile Delta It spreads across Egypt, and into coastal In spring 542, it reaches the imperial capital, It spreads rapidly across the Empire. In 543, plague reaches Persian-ruled Armenia, Recently, plague victims have even been identified Procopius is in Constantinople when the plague "They fell ill in the following way. Suddenly they became feverish, some of them walked about, or doing any small thing. The body did not change colour or become warm rather, at first the fever was so mild that or the doctors who treated them. But then on the same day, or the next, a bubonic This happened around the groin, also inside thigh." Some victims, Procopius writes, fall into for themselves. Others are seized by madness, shouting wildly "Some died immediately, others after many In some cases, the body blossomed with dark These people did not survive a single day. They all died immediately. Many others suddenly began to vomit blood I must also state, that the most eminent doctors afterwards were unexpectedly free of all sickness. They also claimed that many would survive Thus there was no cause behind this disease all cases the outcome made little sense." DNA analysis of human remains from this, and of this terrifying disease - a deadly bacterium Procopius is at the centre of the world's The second, eight centuries later, is known The peak of the pandemic lasts 3 months. On the very worst days, the death toll in Between a third and half the city's population Entire households are wiped out. The city's graveyards overflow, and corpses "It was not easy in those times to see anyone homes... If you happened to chance upon someone going All work came to a standstill..." The plague hits the Empire's great cities into the countryside. Then Emperor Justinian himself falls sick. News soon reaches the army in Syria. There are even rumours that the Emperor is Belisarius and his generals discuss the situation, is said, or by whom. Justinian has no children. The succession will be an uncertain and dangerous They may even discuss who among them is best-placed Unexpectedly, Justinian makes a full recovery. But Empress Theodora has learned of the generals' Belisarius and another general, Bouzes, had proclaimed in Constantinople. Theodora regards these words as treason - a husband should die. Belisarius and Bouzes are summoned to Constantinople Theodora cannot prove their treason, but both favour. Procopius claims that Bouzes spends more than Belisarius, the Emperor's most successful is total. He is dismissed from command, and loses much His famed bucellarii are split up and distributed Belisarius lives in Constantinople as a private While abroad, Justinian's empire slides The plague has killed a multitude of Roman government, trade and taxation. In Armenia, a Roman offensive ends in humiliating In North Africa, Berber rebels defeat the While in Italy, the Ostrogoths have rallied retaken most of Belisarius's gains, and Justinian is desperate for a general who can war. 544 AD. Belisarius is recalled from disgrace, and But the emperor has no troops to spare. And Belisarius's bucellarii are still in This time, he will have only 4,000 recruits, the demoralised army in Italy. And in Totila, he faces a far more dangerous He is poorly resourced, and has been ungratefully But Belisarius loyally marches to war again, Eastern Roman general Flavius Belisarius and to cross the Adriatic to Italy. Four years have passed since Belisarius's But in his absence, the Eastern Roman position After several coups and assassinations, the A brilliant warrior, who is also wise and His name is Totila. While Emperor Justinian had been distracted Totila had attacked. He swept to victory against a demoralised or supplies, and led by corrupt, squabbling Many Romans chose to switch sides rather than Much of what Belisarius had achieved in four Only Rome, and a few other cities and ports, Belisarius, veteran of great Roman victories will face his toughest campaign yet... A struggle once more for Italy - against the Belisarius seems to face an impossible task. With just 4,000 inexperienced troops, he cannot For the time being, he must remain on the He has an early success when he is able to which had been on the point of surrender. Then he moves his force up by sea to Ravenna. But Belisarius finds that every move he makes Roman control - is hamstrung, by a lack of He sends his old rival, John, nephew of Vitalian, to the Emperor: "We have arrived in Italy, most mighty emperor, man, I think, can carry on a war without a Belisarius ask, above all, that his household from service in the east and sent to join Belisarius withdraws to Dyrrachium, to await Totila, meanwhile, tightens his grip on central The Eternal City is held by just 3,000 Roman For months, the Goths have been intercepting Civilians are already starving, the garrison The city cannot hold out for long. A few months later, John rejoins Belisarius But not for the first time, the two generals John wants to cross to southern Italy, and could take 40 days. Belisarius thinks they'll be too late to He wants to get troops and supplies there to Portus - a five-day voyage in favourable John can land in southern Italy, clear the Rome. Belisarius's plan risks dividing his small But it may - at a stroke - secure Rome However, his last campaign is to be plagued "When Belisarius arrived in Italy, things incurred the enmity of heaven." Belisarius sails for Portus, accompanied by But they are hit by a storm, and have to put They are spotted by Goths besieging the port, By the time Belisarius reaches Portus a few for any attempt to relieve Rome. Totila knows Belisarius will try to move supplies So 10 miles downriver from the city, he builds bank, filled with Goth warriors. It's a formidable obstacle, that Belisarius Meanwhile, John lands with his troops in the He quickly routs local Goth forces, and secures But despite appeals from Belisarius, John He cites the presence of 300 Goths at Capua, that he'd be marching into a trap. Belisarius can wait no longer. He leaves Isaac in command at Portus, with base for any reason. He also sends word to Bessas in Rome, ordering camp. Then his convoy of 200 reinforced galleys and supplies. An infantry force supports them on the right After clearing an iron chain that lay across bridge. Thanks to skilled reconnaissance, Belisarius dimensions. He has built a taller tower, which floats The Romans push it up to a Goth tower... and tar, on top of it. The tower, with scores of Goth warriors still Goths now race from their camp to join the assault. Heavy fighting breaks out around the wreckage But there is no sign of the diversionary raid Bessas, it will emerge, has decided not to Belisarius's troops gain the upper hand, But then a messenger arrives with news that at Portus. Belisarius, for once, seems to lose his usual He assumes Portus has been captured, along Without waiting for more information, he turns attack to retake Portus. But when Belisarius gets there, he discovers Despite his orders to stay put, Isaac had the Goths, in pursuit of glory. Now crucial moments have been lost. The Goths are reinforcing their position. To renew the attack would be futile. Belisarius's attempt to save Rome has failed. He is overcome with despair. Then he falls sick with fever, and comes close Ten years after Rome fell to Belisarius, the starving Roman troops. Procopius records that just 26 soldiers and his men to stop the killing. Within Rome, the Goths find just a few hundred hungry and destitute, sheltering amid the world's greatest city. Rome.. is a ghost town. Totila decides to raze it to the ground, and When Belisarius hears of this, he writes to "Among all cities under the sun Rome is any insult to these monuments would rightly of humanity. For by such an action the men of former generations and future generations of the sight of their Belisarius adds that if the Romans win this levelled Rome. Totila changes his mind. Having destroyed Rome's gates and much of of its inhabitants with him. John retreats behind the walls of Dryus, and Rome, the Eternal City, is abandoned. We are told it is forsaken by all living things enough to roam the empty forums and deserted In the spring of 547 Belisarius, recovered of Rome to inspect its defences. Word of his movements reaches the Goths, and way out of a dangerous ambush. But the Roman general has seen enough. He has decided to reoccupy Rome There is no Goth garrison to oppose Belisarius. But strategically it seems madness - how For 25 days, he and his men work furiously defences before the Goths return. Their presence encourages some Romans to begin By the time Totila and his army arrive, the loose stone. But they haven't had time to make new gates. The Goths attack, confident of victory. The Romans have a nasty surprise for them to maim Goth men and horses. For two whole days, there is savage fighting But Belisarius's men stubbornly hold their A few days later, the Goths prepare to launch This time the Romans are so confident they in the open. Totila's own standard-bearer is cut down. The Goths are routed. Totila, harangued by his own men for neither garrisoning it, withdraws to Tivoli. At last, Roman fortunes seem to be on the There's more good news, when Emperor Justinian - around 2,500 men. Belisarius is ordered to link up with them of southern Italy. He sails from Portus with 900 picked men. But once more, ill winds force him off course, shore. Despite their experience, his cavalry fail and a large force of Goth cavalry takes them The Romans are outnumbered four to one. Many of Belisarius's best men fall in the The rest of his force hurriedly re-embarks, It's a humiliating withdrawal for Belisarius, him - now chased out of Italy by a small band Belisarius's wife Antonina has been by his Now she returns to Constantinople. As a close friend and confidante of Empress persuade her to send Belisarius the troops The mission will prove futile. When Antonina arrives in the capital, she and died. "At this point in the war, the barbarians West. Though the Romans had been at first decisively recounted, the result for them was that they amounts and to no advantage, but they had Belisarius's second Italian campaign ends In January 549, he is recalled to Constantinople, Soon after he leaves, the Goths finally take The next year, they take Rome. Goth fleets begin to raid Sicily and Dalmatia. But Justinian continues to ignore Totila's Because he has, at last, assembled an army He awards command not to Belisarius... but of the palace. Narses leads the army into Italy in 552. He decides to act fast, and force a decisive He gets his wish at Busta Gallorum. Totila risks everything on a massed cavalry He is met with a storm of arrows. It is a debacle. Totila himself is among scores of Goth lords Goth military power in Italy is broken. Within two years, Narses will win more brilliant bring the war in Italy to a victorious end. Belisarius's feelings, at news of Narses' Joy and gratitude for a Roman victory. But bitterness, perhaps, that he'd had to support. After 25 years commanding Roman troops, Belisarius's He lives as a rich and famous patrician in to Justinian. Little more is heard of the great general "And now, after a great lapse of time, as and donned the familiar uniform of his younger into the old man's mind and filled him with Kutrigurs - Turkic warrior nomads, perhaps menaced the Eastern Roman Empire for decades. Justinian uses a combination of bribes, fortifications The system does not always work. In 559, their chief Zabergan leads the Kutrigurs They split into three groups. Zabergan himself leads 7,000 men towards Constantinople. They bypass the outer fortifications, the There are hardly any troops in Constantinople, Justinian knows there is one man in the city He summons Belisarius, and orders him to take The great general, now almost sixty, gathers and marches out to face the enemy. He sets an ambush for the advance party of When they've entered the trap, his veterans Then Belisarius leads forward his main force His men scream and roar to terrify the enemy. Horses drag branches to stir up dust and hide The Kutrigurs are hemmed in, attacked from They panic and flee. In the words of the historian Agathias: "The Romans followed them in an orderly of all they could lay their hands on. The barbarians were slaughtered in great numbers round to look back." Belisarius has won yet another famous victory. Yet three years later, after a failed assassination in disgrace once more. Under interrogation, the conspirators name Belisarius himself. It's flimsy evidence. But Belisarius is persona non grata for seven This incident spawns a medieval legend - that blinded, and he became a beggar at the gates The story was a favourite of 18th century of tyranny, injustice and charity. But there is no contemporary evidence to support Three years later, a single line in the chronicle Rome's greatest generals. "In March of this year, in the 13th indiction, and his property accrued to the imperial house Nothing more is said. The year is 565. Belisarius would have been in his mid-sixties. The fate of his wife Antonina is not known. As for Procopius... His great work, History of the Wars of Justinian, of Justinian and Belisarius. It is an astonishing achievement, from an and knew many of the great figures involved. It comes to be regarded as one of the greatest, ancient world. But Procopius also writes another account known as the Secret History. In its introduction, he writes: "I have been forced to conceal the real my former books. It will now be my duty, in this part of my untold..." What follows is a scandalous assault on the and Belisarius. Procopius describes the imperial couple as money. He asserts that Theodora had been a notorious is possessed by demons. Antonina, he claims, is a serial adulterer, under her spell. Many of their actions, even major strategic lust and manipulation. The Secret History remains little known for is found in the Vatican library, and published. Historians have debated its contents ever A common view is that this work stems from rule: the wars, taxes, and crucially, the For it is a ferociously misogynistic attack, and vengeful. But it is also clear that much of the Secret not to be taken literally, or perhaps even Emperor Justinian died eight months after In such an age, to reign 38 years and die achievement. His funeral, an event of stunning magnificence, the Church of the Holy Apostles, in Constantinople. He left a Roman Empire that stretched from Alps to the Atlas Mountains. These conquests came at a vast cost in lives, Nor could they be sustained. Three years after Justinian's death, the of the peninsula. In the seventh century, Avars and Persians before the tidal wave of Muslim Arab conquest It has been argued that Justinian's costly unable to resist these new threats. But recent assessments place more emphasis blunders of his successors. Justinian had been immensely fortunate to Roman history, even though he did not always In all his commands, Belisarius distinguished decisive. He was a skilled tactician who defied the He waged a hearts and mind campaign to retake He liberated Rome, and held it in two desperate He has been called the Last Roman. The Empire would see few generals of his stature Big thanks to Legendarian for providing our Check out his own YouTube channel for more Thank you also to Professor David Parnell consultant. You can follow David on Twitter @ByzantineProf, And thank you, of course, to all the Epic channel possible.