(light music) - [Narrator] On your way to the office, a message comes in from your boss. Can you grab them a coffee? They pay you back in a different app. You go to another app to place an order for pickup and your mobile wallet (camera shutters) Now coffee, which took four apps to accomplish. But in China, it takes just one. WeChat, a super app. - You just don't have to remembering different passwords, opening and closing different apps. It just makes it easy. - [Narrator] So why isn't - My idea would be like, how about if we just copy WeChat? - [Narrator] Though some creating a super app in the US is the holy grail for some tech CEOs, and for good reason. Take another look at WeChat. The app launched in 2011 as a social media and messaging service. By the next year, it added a And in the following years of other features, food delivery, healthcare, and mini apps. - It really sort of does everything. In some ways, it's a stand-in - [Narrator] And users like it. By 2022, WeChat had 1.3 and helped its parent of about $81 billion. - The beauty of a super app is that you're able to move seamlessly between different functions, share information and data between the different That's what makes it work. - [Narrator] And that data is Let's look back at the apps you used to make that coffee order again. Apps in the US are largely restricted from tracking you across your phone. So each company is only collecting data while their app is open. But with WeChat, you to make that order or message your boss, or even post a photo of That one company gets - Having a better are purchasing when they're you know, that becomes Or if you're a government - [Narrator] That's one of the reasons why companies from multiple have made attempts at but their growth has been A super app in the US would have to contend against and changing consumer - We're not really used to And that's why when companies have tried to launch singular apps that do more than one thing at a time, consumers have largely rejected them. - [Narrator] Facebook Messenger its app back in 2018 after Its head, at the time, said that the app had become too cluttered. Another key issue is Take Snap for example. Its payment system, Snapcash, while apps like Venmo - If you can integrate that it just makes that app much more sticky. But it also means, in most cases, that you can control Maybe you're making a better and as your user base grows, you start to scale. - [Narrator] But integrating is a big lift in the US. - A lot of tech companies aren't also a financial services company It's complicated. There's regulations involved. There's different international - [Narrator] Facebook's a crypto payment system failed in part because lawmakers and about payments being used The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has cracked down on big tech platforms using payment systems in recent years. And data privacy can also become a concern for consumers and lawmakers. - Right now, a lot of people distrust the big tech companies, and the idea of a single tech company, like a Meta or an Amazon or a Google, offering us an app that really houses so many different things from online payments to bill management to health records, you know, is kinda scary to people. - [Narrator] And that becomes - I don't think at this point technology companies are interested in making it look like their control over our digital lives any more than they already have. I mean, that would just - [Narrator] Some experts and analysts think the future for super apps in the US may look different than WeChat. - I think the path forward for the super app concept has more to do with verticals than sort of a one ring to rule them all. - [Narrator] So for example, might house your medical information, as well as features for making - [Narrator] The first and creates a seamless, that allowed doctors you know, electronic health records stuff, I think that that is gonna A massive disruptor. (upbeat music)