John von Neumann was smarter than the smartest. Hans Bethe, who won the Nobel "I have sometimes wondered whether a brain like von Neumann's does not indicate a He had a profound impact on quantum mechanics, the atomic bomb, the modern computer, game The basis for all these contributions was Growing up in Budapest, Johnny, could reportedly multiply two eight-digit His well-off Jewish parents fostered His father, Max, an economic hosted intellectual dinners that The "von" was added to their surname after the Although times were good, As anti-Semitism spread through Max wanted to prepare his three So, Johnny studied French, Italian, But his greatest strength lay in mathematics. Soon after enrolling in an elite prep school, his math teacher Gabor Szego was brought as he had never experienced a mind like But Max didn't want his son believing, "Mathematics does not make money." So a compromise of sorts was struck. Johnny studied chemistry at the before enrolling at ETH Zurich, where he At the same time, he completed his PhD in where he wrote his thesis on set theory. Set theory is the study of sets, which are They form the fundamental Ananyo Bhattacharya, author of the uses a great example to explain set theory: Imagine building a tower with Lego bricks. The 1st level has a single brick representing The 2nd level includes the brick from representing the set containing the empty set. The 3rd level builds on the previous two levels and adds another brick to represent After completing his formal education, the center of the math world, to study At the time, scientists and understand the strange behavior of particles Werner Heisenberg and Erwin different ways to describe Heinsenberg's approach used a grid the different energy states of electrons. Schrodinger described particles Oddly, when these waves are observed, the wave function collapses, It was as if they were talking Scientists like Paul Dirac had tried but were not entirely successful. Johnny was. He proved that the two were Still in his early twenties, he He received an offer to lecture where he enjoyed the cabaret shows His next stint at the University as his chances of becoming a Then came an invitation from America to become a visiting lecturer in mathematical Oswald Veblen, a math professor at Princeton, wanted to entice Europe's top talent offering more than seven times what they Germany was the leading scientific nation in the world, while the U.S. was considered Before accepting the position at Princeton, he married Mariette Kovesi also from a prosperous Upon arriving in America with his wife in Though, he did face an unexpected problem He failed his driving test so many times An intersection at Princeton Neumannn corner" due to his He'd have to buy a new car every though was never seriously injured. He humorously explained his accidents this way: "I was proceeding down the road. The trees fashion at 60 miles an hour. Suddenly one Johnny picked a good time to leave Germany In January 1933, Hitler rose Some lost half their staff overnight. German science never recovered. That same year, Johnny joined the recently a research institute in Princeton, New Jersey, where the greatest scientific minds, including He was the youngest recruit at 29 years old One of his most significant time was providing mathematical This hypothesis suggests that a system will states it can occupy. Over time, the gas particles will spread This work was crucial for predicting the While working away at the IAS, his with the looming war back home. Rudolf Ortvay in 1935, "There will be He was also correct when he enter the war if Great Britain were in trouble. He feared that European Jews to the Armenians under the Ottoman Empire. writing to a congressman in September 1941, foreign war, since the principles for which it is Between his preoccupation with Johnny wasn't an attentive husband or father. "Although he genuinely adored my mother, my a pursuit that occupied most of his waking hours, to the emotional needs of those around him." A year after their divorce, he married Klara Dan, or Klari, in 1938, after meeting her She was also from a wealthy Jewish Budapest They threw wild parties at their home every amassed a vast collection of At the start of the war, Johnny determining how their shape His expertise led him to In December 1938, German scientists Physicist Enrico Fermi, who had fled declaring: "A little bomb like Robert Oppenheimer, then at Berkeley, led the secretive American Johnny played a key role in the Manhattan He improved the arrangement Man" bomb by suggesting wedge-shaped When detonated simultaneously, these compressing the core more rapidly and The implosion had to be so symmetrical can without splattering any beer. Achieving this symmetry resulted By the time the atomic bomb was fully Germany had already surrendered. The war in Europe was over. But Japan refused to yield. Johnny had no qualms about bombing Stalin's Soviet Union and wanted He was part of the team that shortlisted Despite his willingness to use the bomb, he was fully aware of the devastating "What we are creating now is a monster provided there is any history left, yet it not only for the military reasons, but it view of the scientists not to do what they consequences it may have. And this is only the made available will make scientists the most hated On August 6, 1945, the U.S. dropped the &quot;Little instantly, with tens of thousands more dying Three days later, American forces dropped It used the implosion mechanism in the deaths of 70,000 people. Toward the end of the war, engineers working on a revolutionary Initially designed to calculate artillery determining whether it was possible to build a John Mauchly and J. Presper Eckert created computer for the U.S. Army's Ballistic Research ENIAC, which took up an entire room, could which was thousands of times Johnny joined the project as a consultant. that could merely calculate. could store information and instructions manual reconfiguration for each new task. ENIAC's successor, the EDVAC, which introduced This design allowed data and instructions to be a foundational concept of The dissemination of Johnny's 1945 However, Eckert and Mauchly were furious that name had been shared before they could Mathematician Herman Goldstine distributed engineers to further the development of Johny explained that "...this was perfectly proper His ideas from EDVAC guided the design of the IBM's first commercially successful was based on Johny's stored-program architecture. Leading a bitter Eckert to complain: "He sold In a landmark verdict on October 19, 1973, electronic digital computer were in the So, one of the most valuable inventions of a significant step towards what would As if his schedule weren't full enough, Johnny desiring to find neat mathematical at a tumultuous time in history. Bronowski during a London cab ride that "Chess is not a game. Chess is a well-defined Real life consists of bluffing, of asking yourself what is the other that is what games are about in my theory." as Game theory encompasses various models, each A classic example related to fair If two people share a cake, what's the One person cuts it, and the ensuring a fair division since the cutter Another example is the zero-sum In this game, each player has a penny and then reveal their choices simultaneously. If the pennies match, one player If they don't match, the other player wins. This game illustrates that one player's gain is exactly the other's loss, Johnny viewed the Cold War between the U.S. and He supported the development of the hydrogen bomb, which was exponentially more Initially, he was a proponent of "preventive war" at Moscow, knowing it was only a matter of time Confident that the Russian spy network had he was convinced that war with He recognized the urgency of the situation and I say why not today? If you say today at However, he abandoned his idea of a pre-emptive to retaliate, leading to the doctrine Deterrence is the art of producing in He is said to have inspired the character "How I Learned to Stop He used game theory to model helping military strategists consider when they Ironically, Johnny defended Oppenheimer during a security risk due to his close ties Meanwhile, Johnny had pushed for a pre-emptive While Johnny's mind was racing, Bone cancer metastasized through his body. It's been suggested that the disease resulted the hydrogen bomb tests conducted in Although Johnny believed that mathematicians he produced some of his most unique In his later years, he became fascinated by He theorized about machines with information copied and passed to itself - a vision that anticipated the His theories have profoundly inspiring the development of systems that as seen in machine learning John von Neumann's ideas were far ahead of He passed away on February Despite being agnostic all his life, on In a 1950s article for Fortune magazine, recognizing its potential for good and evil. cannot be resolved by a single prescription, measures, and reliance on the human qualities Despite his many contributions to math aware of the gaps in education that He once addressed a young man's question people to operate advanced machines. I'm glad that you're asking this question we don't take enough people, and we better do we better do something about it quickly, but quickly and then continuously. In other words, in college, in the high schools, and Well, one great way to learn STEM and Brilliant is an amazing platform starting at your level and helping you Each lesson is filled with hands-on play with concepts-- which is way more Brilliant recently launched a ton of new Their "How LLMs Work" course gives you hands-on you understand how they generate text that's Brilliant's "Programming with Python" is perfect You'll start writing your own programs on day There's something for everyone no Brilliant is FREE for you to try out for 30 days. Just scan my custom QR code on your screen or click my custom link in the video If you sign up with my code or link, you'll Premium subscription, which gives you access Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.