The Art of Worldly Wisdom by Balthasar Gracian. Translated by Joseph Jacobs, 1892. Read by illacertus. The Art of Worldly Wisdom. 1. Everything is at its Acme; especially the There is more required nowadays to make a Sages, and more is needed nowadays to deal a whole people in former times. 2. Character and Intellect: the two poles of halfway to happiness. Intellect sufficeth not, character is also On the other hand, it is the fool's misfortune, the neighbourhood, and the circle of friends 3. Keep Matters for a Time in Suspense. Admiration at their novelty heightens the and insipid to play with the cards on the If you do not declare yourself immediately, importance of your position makes you the Mix a little mystery with everything, and And when you explain, be not too explicit, in ordinary intercourse. Cautious silence is the holy of holies of A resolution declared is never highly thought And if it happens to fail, you are doubly Besides you imitate the Divine way when you 4. Knowledge and Courage are the elements of They give immortality, because they are immortal. Each is as much as he knows, and the wise A man without knowledge, a world without light. Wisdom and strength, eyes and hands. Knowledge without courage is sterile. 5. Create a Feeling of Dependence. Not he that adorns but he that adores makes The wise man would rather see men needing To keep them on the threshold of hope is diplomatic, has a good memory, gratitude a bad one. More is to be got from dependence than from He that has satisfied his thirst turns his falls from the golden platter into the waste-basket. When dependence disappears, good behaviour Let it be one of the chief lessons of experience it, by preserving it to make oneself always But let not silence be carried to excess lest incurable for the sake of your own advantage. 6. A Man at his Highest Point. We are not born perfect: every day we develop we reach the highest point of our completed of our excellences. This is known by the purity of our taste, of our judgment, and the firmness of our will. Some never arrive at being complete; somewhat The complete man, wise in speech, prudent of discreet persons, is even sought for by 7. Avoid Victories over Superiors. All victories breed hate, and that over your Superiority is always detested, a fortiori Caution can gloss over common advantages; careless attire. There be some that will grant you precedence sense, least of all a prince; for good sense is a case of lese majeste. They are princes, and wish to be so in that They will allow a man to help them but not tendered them appear like a recollection of as a guide to something they cannot find. The stars teach us this finesse with happy like him, they never rival the brilliancy 8. To be without Passions. It is a privilege of the highest order of Their very eminence redeems them from being There is no higher rule than that over oneself, of free will. While passion rules the character, no aiming It is the only refined way of avoiding scandals; 9. Avoid the Faults of your Nation. Water shares the good or bad qualities of those of the climate in which he is born. Some owe more than others to their native in the zenith. There is not a nation even among the most to itself which other nations blame by way It is a triumph of cleverness to correct in hide them: you get great credit for being fellows, and as it is less expected of you There are also family failings as well as If these all meet in one person and are not monster. 10. Fortune and Fame. Where the one is fickle the other is enduring. The first for life, the second afterwards; Fortune is desired, at times assisted: fame The desire for fame springs from man's best It was and is the sister of the giants; it or brilliant prodigies. Cultivate those who can teach you. Let friendly intercourse be a school of knowledge, thus you make your friends your teachers and the advantages of instruction. Sensible persons thus enjoy alternating pleasures: gain instruction from what they hear. We are always attracted to others by our own but in this case it is of a higher kind. Wise men frequent the houses of great noblemen as theatres of good breeding. There be gentlemen who have the credit of themselves oracles of all nobleness by their surround them form a well-bred academy of 12. Nature and Art: material and workmanship. There is no beauty unadorned and no excellence not supported by artifice: this remedies the Nature scarcely ever gives us the very best; Without this the best of natural dispositions excellence if training is absent. Every one has something unpolished without needs some polish. 13. Act sometimes on Second Thoughts, sometimes Man's life is a warfare against the malice Sagacity fights with strategic changes of it aims only at escaping notice. It aims in the air with dexterity and strikes to conceal its game. It lets a purpose appear in order to attract and conquers by the unexpected. But a penetrating intelligence anticipates It always understands the opposite of what recognises every feint of guile. It lets the first impulse pass by and waits Sagacity now rises to higher flights on seeing by truth itself, changes its game in order and founds deception on the greatest candour. But the opposing intelligence is on guard the darkness concealed by the light and deciphers In this way the guile of the Python combats 14. The Thing Itself and the Way it is done. &quot;Substance&quot; is not enough: &quot;accident&quot; is also A bad manner spoils everything, even reason gilds a No, sweetens truth, and adds a touch The how plays a large part in affairs, a good Fine behaviour is a joy in life, and a pleasant remarkable way. 15. Keep Ministering Spirits. It is a privilege of the mighty to surround these extricate them from every fear of ignorance, every difficulty. It is a rare greatness to make use of the of Tigranes, who had a fancy for captive monarchs It is a novel kind of supremacy, the best skill those who by nature are our masters. It is a great thing to know, little to live: There is remarkable cleverness in studying many, and through them all to become wise. Afterwards you speak in the council chamber through your mouth as were consulted beforehand: toil. Such ministering spirits distil the best books But he that cannot have sages in service should 16. Knowledge and Good Intentions together ensure A fine intellect wedded to a wicked will was A wicked will envenoms all excellences: helped It is a miserable superiority that only results Knowledge without sense is double folly. Vary the Mode of Action; not always the same if there be a rival. Not always from first impulse; they will soon frustrate your designs. It is easy to kill a bird on the wing that Nor always act on second thoughts: they can The enemy is on the watch, great skill is The gamester never plays the card the opponent 18. Application and Ability. There is no attaining eminence without both, eminence. Mediocrity obtains more with application than Work is the price which is paid for reputation. What costs little is little worth. Even for the highest posts it is only in some the talent. To prefer moderate success in great things of a generous mind, but not so to be content among the highest. Thus nature and art are both needed, and application 19. Arouse no Exaggerated Expectations on entering. It is the usual ill-luck of all celebrities beforehand formed of them. The real can never equal the imagined, for to realize them. Imagination weds Hope and gives birth to much However great the excellences, they never find themselves disappointed with their exorbitant than to admire. Hope is a great falsifier of truth; let skill exceeds desire. A few creditable attempts at the beginning pledging one to the final object. It is better that reality should surpass the This rule does not apply to the wicked, for they are defeated amid general applause, and be thought quite bearable. A Man of the Age. The rarest individuals depend on their age. It is not every one that finds the age he not always know how to utilise it. Some men have been worthy of a better century, triumph. Things have their period; even excellences The sage has one advantage: he is immortal. If this is not his century many others will 21. The Art of being Lucky. There are rules of luck: it is not all chance Some content themselves with placing them-selves till she opens it. Others do better, and press forward and profit and winning her favour on the wings of their But on a true philosophy there is no other is no luck or ill-luck except wisdom and the 22. A Man of Knowledge to the Point. Wise men arm themselves with tasteful and what is going on not of a common kind but They possess a copious store of wise and witty to employ them on fitting occasions. More is often taught by a jest than by the Pat knowledge helps some more than the seven 23. Be Spotless: the indispensable condition of Few live without some weak point, either physical easily cure it. The keenness of others often regrets to see assembly of elevated qualities, and yet a There are likewise patches on our reputation noticing. The highest skill is to transform them into So Caesar hid his natural defects with the 24. Keep the Imagination under Control; sometimes For it is all-important for our happiness, It can tyrannise, and is not content with dominates life, causing it to be happy or it leads. For it makes us either contented or discontented Before some it continually holds up the penalties of these fools. To others it promises happiness and adventure It can do all this unless the most prudent 25. Know how to take a Hint. It was once the art of arts to be able to We must know how to take a hint, especially He cannot make himself understood who does But on the other hand there are pretended The very truths which concern us most can can grasp the whole meaning. When you hear anything favourable keep a tight it the spur. 26. Find out each Man's Thumbscrew. It is the art of setting their wills in action. It needs more skill than resolution. You must know where to get at any one. Every volition has a special motive which All men are idolaters, some of fame, others Skill consists in knowing these idols in order Knowing any man's mainspring of motive you Have resort to primary motors, which are not part of his nature: there are more dispositions First guess a man's ruling passion, appeal and you will infallibly give checkmate to 27. Prize Intensity more than Extent. Excellence resides in quality not in quantity. The best is always few and rare: much lowers Even among men giants are commonly the real Some reckon books by the thickness, as if the brain. Extent alone never rises above mediocrity: that in attempting to be at home everywhere, Intensity gives eminence, and rises to the 28. Common in Nothing. First, not in taste. O great and wise, to be ill at ease when your The excesses of popular applause never satisfy Some there are such chameleons of popularity savours of Apollo but in the breath of the Secondly, not in intelligence. Take no pleasure in the wonder of the mob, While vulgar folly wonders wisdom watches 29. A Man of Rectitude clings to the sect of right the passions of the mob nor the violence of the bounds of right. But who shall be such a Phoenix of equity? What a scanty following has rectitude! Many praise it indeed, but--for others. Others follow it till danger threatens; then For it cares not if it fights with friendship, danger of desertion. Then astute men make plausible distinctions or of reasons of state. But the straightforward and constant regard more store on tenacity than on sagacity. Such are always to be found on the side of not change from fickleness, but because the 30. Have naught to do with Occupations of Ill-repute, than repute. There are many fanciful sects, and from all There are bizarre tastes that always take they live in love with singularity. This may make them well known indeed, but A cautious man does not even make profession that make their followers ridiculous. These need not be specified, for common contempt 31. Select the Lucky and avoid the Unlucky. Ill-luck is generally the penalty of folly, who share in it. Never open the door to a lesser evil, for after it. The greatest skill at cards is to know when is worth more than the ace of trumps of the When in doubt, follow the suit of the wise the odd trick. 32. Have the Reputation of being Gracious. It is the chief glory of the high and mighty conquer universal goodwill. That is the great advantage of a commanding others. Those make friends who do friendly acts. On the other hand, there are some who lay on account of the difficulty, but from a bad In all things they are the opposite of Divine 33. Know how to Withdraw. If it is a great lesson in life to know how to deny oneself as regards both affairs and There are extraneous occupations which eat To be occupied in what does not concern you It is not enough for a careful man not to do not interfere with him. One is not obliged to belong so much to all So with friends, their help should not be themselves will grant. All excess is a failing, but above all in A wise moderation in this best preserves the that precious boon of courtesy is not gradually Thus you preserve your genius free to select laws of good taste. 34. Know your strongest Point--your pre-eminent rest. Every one would have excelled in something Notice in what quality you surpass, and take In some judgment excels, in others valour. Most do violence to their natural aptitude, Time disillusionises us too late of what first 35. Think over Things, most over the most Important. All fools come to grief from want of thought. They never see even the half of things, and still less do they apply any diligence to Some make much of what imports little and scale. Many never lose their common sense, because There are matters which should be observed thenceforth kept in its lowest depths. The wise man thinks over everything, but with is some profound difficulty, and thinks that Thus his comprehension extends as far as his 36. In Acting or Refraining, weigh your Luck. More depends on that than on noticing your If he is a fool who at forty applies to Hippocrates first applies to Seneca for wisdom. It is a great piece of skill to know how to For something is to be done with it by waiting it has periods and offers opportunities, though so irregular. When you find Fortune favourable, stride boldly a woman, the young. But if you have bad luck, keep retired so star. 37. Keep a Store of Sarcasms, and know how to This is the point of greatest tact in human Such sarcasms are often thrown out to test obtains the most subtle and penetrating touchstone Other sarcasms are malicious, insolent, poisoned flashes which destroy at once all favour and Struck by the slightest word of this kind, superiors or inferiors which could not be of popular insinuation or private malevolence. Other sarcasms, on the other hand, work favourably, But the greater the skill with which they which they should be received and the foresight For here a knowledge of the evil is in itself misses its mark. 38. Leave your Luck while Winning. All the best players do it. A fine retreat is as good as a gallant attack. Bring your exploits under cover when there them. Luck long lasting was ever suspicious; interrupted for a little infusion of bitter-sweet. The higher the heap of luck, the greater the Fortune pays you sometimes for the intensity She soon tires of carrying any one long on 39. Recognise when Things are ripe, and then enjoy The works of nature all reach a certain point that they degenerate. Few works of art reach such a point that they It is an especial privilege of good taste Not all can do this, nor do all who can know There is a ripening point too for fruits of their value in use and for their value in 40. The Goodwill of People. It is much to gain universal admiration; more, Something depends on natural disposition, then builds on that foundation. Brilliant parts suffice not, though they are to win goodwill. Kindly acts besides are required to produce good words and better deeds, loving so as Courtesy is the politic witchery of great First lay hand on deeds and then on pens; to be won among writers, and it is eternal. 41. Never Exaggerate. It is an important object of attention not offend against truth nor to give a mean idea Exaggeration is a prodigality of the judgment or one's taste. Praise arouses lively curiosity, begets desire, to the price, as generally happens, expectation itself by under-estimating the thing recommended A prudent man goes more cautiously to work, Extraordinary things are rare, therefore moderate Exaggeration is a branch of lying, and you is much, and of good sense, which is more. 42. Born to Command. It is a secret force of superiority not to inborn power of rule. All submit to it without knowing why, recognising Such magisterial spirits are kings by merit By the esteem which they inspire, they hold If their other qualities permit, such men They per-form more by a gesture than others 43. Think with the Few and speak with the Many. By swimming against the stream it is impossible only a Socrates can undertake it. To dissent from others' views is regarded Disgust is doubled on account of the thing Truth is for the few, error is both common The wise man is not known by what he says with his own voice but with that of common gainsay it. The prudent avoid being contradicted as much ready they are not ready to publish it. Thought is free, force cannot and should not The wise man therefore retires into silence, he does so in the shade and before few and 44. Sympathy with great Minds. It is an heroic quality to agree with heroes. It is like a miracle of nature for mystery There is a natural kinship of hearts and minds: scents witchcraft. Esteem established, goodwill follows, which It persuades without words and obtains without This sympathy is sometimes active, sometimes the more sublime. It is a great art to recognise, to distinguish No amount of energy suffices without that 45. Use, but do not abuse, Cunning. One ought not to delight in it, still less Everything artificial should be concealed, Deceit is much in use; therefore our caution itself, for it arouses distrust, causes much more ills than you would imagine. To go to work with caution is of great advantage wisdom. The greatest skill in any deed consists in 46. Master your Antipathies. We often allow ourselves to take dislikes, At times this innate yet vulgar aversion attaches Good sense masters this feeling, for there those better than ourselves. As sympathy with great men en-nobles us, so 47. Avoid &quot;Affairs of Honour&quot;--one of the chiefest In men of great ability the extremes are kept between them, and they always keep in the time to break through it. It is easier to avoid such affairs than to They test our judgment; it is better to avoid One affair of honour leads to another, and There are men so constituted by nature or obligations. But for him that walks by the light of reason, There is more valour needed not to take up When there is one fool ready for the occasion, 48. Be Thorough. How much depends on the person. The interior must be at least as much as the There are natures all frontage, like houses a palace leading to the rooms of a cottage. It is no use boring into such persons, although the first salutation. They prance through the first compliments for the flow of words soon ceases where there Others may be taken in by them because they but not the prudent, who look within them scorn. Observation and Judgment. A man with these rules things, not they him. He sounds at once the profoundest depths; On seeing a person he understands him and From a few observations he deciphers the most Keen observation, subtile insight, judicious grasps, and comprehends everything. 50. Never lose Self-respect, or be too familiar Let your own right feeling be the true standard of your own self-judgment than to all external Leave off anything unseemly more from regard external authority. Pay regard to that and there is no need of 51. Know how to Choose well. Most of life depends thereon. It needs good taste and correct judgment, To be choice, you must choose, and for this at all, and then to choose the best. There are many men of fecund and subtle mind, great observation who yet are at a loss when They always take the worst as if they had Thus this is one of the greatest gifts from 52. Never be put out. It is a great aim of prudence never to be It is the sign of a real man. of a noble heart, for magnanimity is not easily The passions are the humours of the soul, if they overflow through the mouth, the reputation Let a man therefore be so much and so great most fortunate nor in the most adverse circumstances disturbing his self-possession, but rather 53. Diligent and Intelligent. Diligence promptly executes what intelligence Hurry is the failing of fools; they know not preparation. On the other hand, the wise more often fail and remiss action often nullifies prompt judgment. Celerity is the mother of good fortune. He has done much who leaves nothing over till Festina lente is a royal motto. Know how to show your Teeth. Even hares can pull the mane of a dead lion. There is no joke about courage. Give way to the first and you must yield to gain your point at last costs as much trouble Moral courage exceeds physical; it should scabbard of caution. It Is the shield of great place; moral cowardice Many have had eminent qualities, yet, for lives and found a tomb in their own sloth. Wise Nature has thoughtfully combined in the of its sting. Wait. It's a sign of a noble heart dowered with be in a passion. First be master over yourself if you would You must pass through the circumference of A wise reserve seasons the aims and matures Time's crutch effects more than the iron club God Himself chasteneth not with a rod but He spake a great word who said, &quot;Time and Fortune herself rewards waiting with the first 56. Have Presence of Mind. The child of a happy promptitude of spirit. Owing to this vivacity and wideawakeness there Many reflect much only to go wrong in the of it beforehand. There are natures of Antiperistasis who work They are like monsters who succeed in all over. A thing occurs to them at once or never: for Celerity wins applause because it proves remarkable action. 57. Slow and Sure. Early enough if well. Quickly done can be quickly undone. To last an eternity requires an eternity of Only excellence counts; only achievement endures. Profound intelligence is the only foundation Worth much costs much. The precious metals are the heaviest. 58. Adapt Yourself to your Company. There is no need to show your ability before Employ no more force than is necessary. Let there be no unnecessary expenditure either The skilful falconer only flies enough birds If there is too much display to-day there Always have some novelty wherewith to dazzle. To show something fresh each day keeps expectation 59. Finish off well. In the house of Fortune, if you enter by the sorrow and vice versa. You ought therefore to think of the finish, than to applause on entrance. It is the common lot of the unlucky to have end. The important point is not the vulgar applause the general feeling at exit. Few in life are felt to deserve an encore. Fortune rarely accompanies any one to the she speeds but coldly the parting guest. 60. A Sound Judgment. Some are born wise, and with this natural moiety already mastered. With age and experience their reason ripens, They abhor everything whimsical as leading state, where certainty is so necessary, owing Such men deserve to stand by the helm of state 61. To Excel in what is Excellent. A great rarity among excellences. You cannot have a great man without something Mediocrities never win applause. Eminence in some distinguished post distinguishes the elect. To be distinguished in a Small post is to less glory. The highest eminence in great affairs has and winning goodwill. 62. Use good Instruments. Some would have the subtlety of their wits It is a dangerous satisfaction, and deserves The excellence of a minister never diminished All the glory of exploits reverts to the principal Fame only does business with principals. She does not say, &quot;This had good, that had that a bad one.&quot; Let your assistants be selected and tested an immortality of fame. 63. To he the First of the Kind is an Excellence, one. To have the first move is a great ad-vantage Many a man would have been a veritable Phoenix Those who come first are the heirs of Fame; whatever they do, they cannot persuade the The skill of prodigies may find a new path all the way. By the novelty of their enterprises sages Some prefer to be first in things of minor 64. Avoid Worry. Such prudence brings its own reward. It escapes much, and is thus the midwife of Neither give nor take bad news unless it can Some men's ears are stuffed with the sweets while some cannot live without a daily annoyance It is no rule of life to prepare for yourself enjoyment to another, however near and dear. You never ought to spoil your own chances of the affair, and in all cases where to oblige is a standing rule that it is better he should 65. Elevated Taste. You can train it like the intellect. Full knowledge whets desire and increases You may know a noble spirit by the elevation can satisfy a great mind. Big bites for big mouths, lofty things for Before their judgment the bravest tremble, Things of the first importance are few; let Taste can be imparted by intercourse: great But do not affect to be dissatisfied with more odious if from affectation than if from Some would have God create another world and 66. See that Things end well. Some regard more the rigour of the game than of the final failure does away with any recognition The victor need not explain. The world does not notice the details of the result. You lose nothing if you gain your end. A good end gilds everything, however unsatisfactory Thus at times it is part of the art of life cannot end well otherwise. 67. Prefer Callings &quot;en Evidence.&quot; Most things depend on the satisfaction of Esteem is to excellence what the zephyr is There are some callings which gain universal credit. The former, pursued before the eyes of all, they are rarer and more valuable, remain obscure Among princes conquerors are the most celebrated, applause as warriors, conquerors, and great An able man will prefer callings en evidence thus becomes immortalised by universal suffrage. It is better to help with Intelligence than The more as the latter needs only recollection, Many persons omit the a propos because it on such occasions may enable them to see the It is one of the greatest gifts of mind to for want of that many things fail to be performed. Share the light of your intelligence, when it not, the first cautiously, the last anxiously. Give no more than a hint: this finesse is of him whose attention you awaken. You should give but a taste at first, and If he thinks of No, go in search of Yes. Therein lies the cleverness, for most things attempted. 69. Do not give way to every common Impulse. He is a great man who never allows himself Self-reflection is the school of wisdom. To know one's disposition and to allow for to find the juste milieu between nature and Self-knowledge is the beginning of self-improvement. There be some whose humours are so monstrous one or other of them, and put them in place They are torn asunder by such disharmony and Such excesses not only destroy firmness of and knowledge pulling in opposite directions. 70. Know how to Refuse. One ought not to give way in everything nor To know how to refuse is therefore as important This is especially the case with men of position. All depends on the how. Some men's No is thought more of than the than a dry Yes. There are some who always have No on their No always comes first with them, and when them no good on account of the unpleasing Your refusal need not be point-blank: let Nor let the refusal be final; that would be remain to soften the rejection. Let politeness compensate and fine words supply Yes and No are soon said, but give much to 71. Do not Vacillate. Let not your actions be abnormal either from An able man is always the same in his best If he changes, he does so for good reason In matters of conduct change is hateful. There are some who are different every day; will, and with this their fortune. Yesterday's white is to-day's black: to-day's They always give the lie to their own credit 72. Be Resolute. Bad execution of your designs does less harm Streams do less harm flowing than when dammed There are some men so infirm of purpose that and this not on account of any perplexity, for action. It needs some skill to find out difficulties, There are others who are never in straits it them for the highest callings: their intelligence the wedge, their resolution how to drive it They soon get through anything: as soon as they are ready for another. Affianced to Fortune, they make themselves 73. Utilise Slips. That is how smart people get out of difficulties. They extricate themselves from the most intricate remark. They get out of a serious contention by an Most of the great leaders are well grounded When you have to refuse, it is often the polite Sometimes it proves the highest understanding 74. Do not be Unsociable. The truest wild beasts live in the most populous To be inaccessible is the fault of those who their manners. It is no way of earning people's goodwill It is a sight to see one of those unsociable impertinent. Their dependants who have the misfortune to prepared for a fight with a tiger armed with To obtain their post these persons must have having once obtained it they seek to indemnify It is a condition of their position that they or spleen, they are so to none. It is a civil way to punish such men by letting of improvement by granting them no opportunity 75. Choose an Heroic Ideal; but rather to emulate There are exemplars of greatness, living texts Let every one have before his mind the chief to spur himself on. Alexander wept not on account of Achilles his fame had not yet spread throughout the Nothing arouses ambition so much in the heart The same thing that sharpens envy, nourishes 76. Do not always be Jesting. Wisdom is shown in serious matters, and is He that is always ready for jests is never They resemble liars in that men never believe in the other. One never knows when you speak with judgment, A continual jest soon loses all zest. Many get the repute of being witty, but thereby Jest has its little hour, seriousness should 77. Be all Things to all Men--a discreet Proteus, sainted. It is the great art to gain every one's suffrages; Notice men's moods and adapt yourself to each, Follow their lead, glossing over the changes This is an indispensable art for dependent But this savoir faire calls for great cleverness. He only will find no difficulty who has a ingenuity in his wit. 78. The Art of undertaking Things. Fools rush in through the door; for folly The same simplicity which robs them of all all sense of shame at failure. But prudence enters with more deliberation. Its forerunners are caution and care; they advance without danger. Every rush forward is freed from danger by such cases. Step cautiously where you suspect depth. Sagacity goes cautiously forward while precaution Nowadays there are unsuspected depths in human. intercourse, you must therefore cast the lead 79. A Genial Disposition. If with moderation It is an accomplishment, A grain of gaiety seasons all. The greatest men join in the fun at times, But they should always on such occasions preserve decorum. Others, again, get themselves out of difficulty For there are things you must take in fun, You show a sense of placability, which acts 80. Take care to get Information. We live by information, not by sight. We exist by faith in others. The ear is the area-gate of truth but the The truth is generally seen, rarely heard; from afar; there is always some admixture passed. The passions tinge her with their colours sometimes the reverse. She always brings out the disposition, therefore with more caution from him that blames. Pay attention to the intention of the speaker; he comes. Let reflection assay falsity and exaggeration. Renew your Brilliance. It is the privilege of the Phoenix. Ability is wont to grow old, and with it fame. The staleness of custom weakens admiration, the highest excellence grown old. Try therefore to be born again in valour, Display startling novelties, rise afresh like Change too the scene on which you shine, so of your triumph, while the novelty of your 82. Drain Nothing to the Dregs, neither Good nor A sage once reduced all virtue to the golden Push right to the extreme and it becomes wrong: becomes bitter. Even in enjoyment never go to extremes. Thought too subtle is dull. If you milk a cow too much you draw blood, 83. Allow Yourself some venial Fault. Some such carelessness is often the greatest For envy exercises ostracism, most envenomed as a failing that it has no faults; for being It becomes an Argus, all eyes for imperfection: Blame is like the lightning; it hits the highest. Let Homer nod now and then and affect some in prudence--so as to disarm malevolence, own venom. You thus leave your cloak on the horns of 84. Make use of your Enemies. You should learn to seize things not by the saves you from harm: especially is this the A wise man gets more use from his enemies Their ill-will often levels mountains of difficulties Many have had their greatness made for them Flattery is more dangerous than hatred, because to be wiped out. The wise will turn ill-will into a mirror or improve the faults referred to. Caution thrives well when rivalry and ill-will 85. Do not play Manille. It is a fault of excellence that being so Because all covet it, all are vexed by it. It is a great misfortune to be of use to nobody; People who reach this stage lose by gaining, These Manilles wear away all kinds of excellence: obtain discredit among the vulgar. The remedy against this extreme is to moderate Be extraordinary in your excellence, if you The more light a torch gives, the more it Show yourself less and you will be rewarded 86. Prevent Scandal. Many heads go to make the mob, and in each for detraction to wag. If a single ill report spread, it casts a to you with a nickname, your reputation is Generally it is some salient defect or ridiculous At times these are malicious additions of For there are wicked tongues that ruin a great by a direct accusation. It is easy to get into bad repute, because is not easy to clear yourself. The wise accordingly avoid these mischances, vigilance. It is far easier to prevent than to rectify. Culture and Elegance. Man is born a barbarian, and only raises himself Culture therefore makes the man; the more Thanks to it, Greece could call the rest of Ignorance is very raw; nothing contributes But even knowledge is coarse If without elegance. Not alone must our intelligence be elegant, Some men are naturally elegant in internal in their address, in their dress, which is which is its fruit. There are others, on the other hand, so gauche excellences, is tarnished by an intolerable 88. Let your Behaviour be Fine and Noble. A great man ought not to be little in his He ought never to pry too minutely into things, For though it is important to know all, it One ought to act in such cases with the generosity man. To overlook forms a large part of the work Most things must be left unnoticed among relatives All superfluity is annoying, especially in To keep hovering around the object or your Generally speaking, every man behaves according 89. Know Yourself--in talents and capacity, in You cannot master yourself unless you know There are mirrors for the face but none for Let careful thought about yourself serve as When the outer image is forgotten, keep the Learn the force of your intellect and capacity in order to apply it, and keep your foundations 90. The Secret of Long Life. Lead a good life. Two things bring life speedily to an end: Some lose their life because they have not they have not the will. Just as virtue is its own reward, so is vice He who lives a fast life runs through life A virtuous life never dies. The firmness of the soul is communicated to in intention but also in extension. 91. Never set to work at anything if you have A suspicion of failure in the mind of the onlooker, especially if he is a rival. If in the heat of action your judgment feels condemn it as a piece of folly. Action is dangerous where prudence is in doubt: Wisdom does not trust to probabilities; it How can an enterprise succeed which the judgment And if resolutions passed nem. con. by inner court often turn out unfortunately, a doubting reason and a vacillating judgment? 92. Transcendant Wisdom. I mean in everything. The first and highest rule of all deed and the higher and more numerous our posts, is: of cleverness. It is the only sure way, though it may not The reputation of wisdom is the last triumph It is enough if you satisfy the wise, for 93. Versatility. A man of many excellences equals many men. By imparting his own enjoyment of life to Variety in excellences is the delight of life. It is a great art to profit by all that is highest development an abstract of herself, by training his taste and intellect. Keep the extent of your Abilities unknown. The wise man does not allow his knowledge if he desires to be honoured by all. He allows you to know them but not to comprehend No one must know the extent of his abilities, No one ever has an opportunity of fathoming For guesses and doubts about the extent of knowledge of them, be they ever so great. 95. Keep Expectation alive. Keep stirring it up. Let much promise more, and great deeds herald Do not rest your whole fortune on a single It requires great skill to moderate your forces 96. The highest Discretion. It is the throne of reason, the foundation at little cost. It is a gift from above, and should be prayed It is the main piece of the panoply, and so whereas with other qualities it is merely All the actions of life depend on its application; needs intelligence. Discretion consists in a natural tendency a liking for the surest. Obtain and preserve a Reputation. It is the usufruct of fame. It is expensive to obtain a reputation, for which are as rare as mediocrities are common. Once obtained, it is easily preserved. It confers many an obligation, but it does When it is owing to elevated powers or lofty and yields a sort of majesty. But it is only a well-founded reputation that 98. Write your Intentions in Cypher. The passions are the gates of the soul. The most practical knowledge consists in disguising He that plays with cards exposed runs a risk The reserve of caution should combat the curiosity Do not even let your tastes be known, lest to them or by flattering them. 99. Reality and Appearance. Things pass for what they seem, not for what Few see inside; many take to the outside. It is not enough to be right, if right seem 100. A Man without Illusions, a wise Christian, Be all these, not merely seem to be them, Philosophy is nowadays discredited, but yet wise. The art of thinking has lost all its former Seneca introduced it at Rome: it went to court of place there. And yet the discovery of deceit was always mind, the true delight of a virtuous soul. 101. One half of the World laughs at the other, Everything is good or everything is bad according What one pursues another persecutes. He is an in-sufferable ass that would regulate Excellences do not depend on a single man's So many men, so many tastes, all different. There is no defect which is not affected by not some, for others will appreciate them. Nor need their applause turn our head, for The real test of praise is the approbation You should aim to be independent of any one 102. Be able to stomach big slices of Luck. In the body of wisdom not the least important implies great parts. Big bits of luck do not embarrass one who What is a surfeit for one may be hunger for Many are troubled as it were with weak digestion, born nor trained for great employment. Their actions turn sour, and the humours that head and they incur great risks in high place: finds no proper place in them. A man of talent therefore should show that and above all avoid showing signs of a little 103. Let each keep up his Dignity. Let each deed of a man in its degree, though let his action be princely within due limits. Sublime in action, lofty in thought, in all in might. For true kingship lies in spotless rectitude, as a model of it. Especially should those near the throne aim true qualities of royalty rather than take affecting its imperfections but sharing in 104. Try your hand at Office. It requires varied qualities, and to know for masterly discernment. Some demand courage, others tact. Those that merely require rectitude are the cleverness. For the former all that is necessary is character; may not suffice. It is a troublesome business to rule men, is needed with those who have none. It is intolerable when an office engrosses Those are better that leave a man free to with importance, for the change refreshes The most in repute are those that have least worst is that which worries us both here and 105. Don't be a Bore. The man of one business or of one topic is Brevity flatters and does better business; Good things, when short, are twice as good. The quintessence of the matter is more effective It is a well-known truth that talkative folk with the matter itself or its formal treatment. There are that serve more for stumbling-stones one's way. The wise avoid being bores, especially to to disturb one of them than all the rest. Well said is soon said. 106. Do not parade your Position. To outshine in dignity is more offensive than To pose as a personage is to be hated: envy The more you seek esteem the less you obtain You cannot take it, but must earn and receive Great positions require an amount of authority it they cannot be adequately filled. Preserve therefore enough dignity to carry Do not enforce respect, but try and create Those who insist on the dignity of their office, is too much for them. If you wish to be valued, be valued for your Even kings prefer to be honoured for their station. 107. Show no Self-satisfaction. You must neither be discontented with yourself--and that is folly. Self-satisfaction arises mostly from ignorance: its advantages if it did not injure our credit. Because a man cannot achieve the superlative with any mediocre talent of his own. Distrust is wise, and even useful, either when they come, for a misfortune cannot surprise Even Homer nods at times, and Alexander fell Things depend on many circumstances: what defeat in another. In the midst of all incorrigible folly remains flowering, and running all to seed. 108. The Path to Greatness is along with Others. Intercourse works well: manners and taste insensibly. Let the sanguine man then make a comrade of so that without any forcing the golden mean It is a great art to agree with others. The alternation of contraries beautifies and in the physical world, still more can it do Adopt this policy in the choice of friends effective middle way is found. 109. Be not Censorious. There are men of gloomy character who regard but because it is their nature to. They condemn all: these for what they have This indicates a nature worse than cruel, They accuse with such exaggeration that they out the eyes. They are always taskmasters who could turn they drive matters to the extreme. A noble nature, on the contrary, always knows in the intention, at least from oversight. 110. Do not wait till you are a Sinking Sun. It is a maxim of the wise to leave things One should be able to snatch a triumph at often retires behind a cloud so as not to he has sunk or no. Wisely withdraw from the chance of mishaps, not wait till they turn you the cold shoulder but dead in esteem. Wise trainers put racers to grass before they A beauty should break her mirror early, lest 111. Have Friends. It is a second existence. Every friend is good and wise for his friend: Every one is as others wish him; that they and so their tongues. There is no magic like a good turn, and the acts. The most and best of us depend on others; enemies. Seek some one every day to be a well-wisher of these will become intimate. 112. Gain Good-will. For thus the first and highest cause foresees By gaining their good-will you gain men's Some trust so much to merit that they neglect without a lift from favour is a long way indeed. Good-will facilitates and supplies everything: courage, zeal, knowledge, or even discretion; does not search for them. It arises from some common interest, either fatherland, office; or formal, which is of reputation, or merit. The whole difficulty is to gain good-will; It has, however, to be sought for, and, when 113. In Prosperity prepare for Adversity. It is both wiser and easier to collect winter In prosperity favours are cheap and friends It is well therefore to keep them for more has no helpers. Retain a store of friendly and obliged persons; up. Low minds never have friends; in luck they will not be recognised by them. 114. Never Compete. Every competition damages the credit: our to out-shine us. Few wage honourable war. Rivalry discloses faults which courtesy would Many have lived in good repute while they The heat of conflict gives life, or even new skeletons. Competition begins with belittling, and seeks And when the weapons of abuse do not effect our opponents use them for revenge, and use oblivion from anything to our discredit. Men of good-will are always at peace; men 115. Get used to the Failings of your Familiars, It is indispensable if they depend on us, There are wretched characters with whom one Therefore clever folk get used to them, as to do so suddenly under the pressure of necessity. At first they arouse disgust, but gradually for disgust or puts up with it. 116. Only act with Honourable Men. You can trust them and they you. Their honour is the best surety of their behaviour act having regard to what they are. Hence It is better to have a dispute with dishonourable ones. You cannot treat with the ruined, for they With them there is no true friendship, and stringent they may appear, because they have Never have to do with such men, for if honour since honour is the throne of rectitude. Never talk of Yourself. You must either praise yourself, which is it ill beseems him that speaks, and ill pleases And if you should avoid this in ordinary conversation, all, in public speaking, where every appearance The same want of tact lies in speaking of of going to one of two extremes: flattery 118. Acquire the Reputation of Courtesy; for it Politeness is the main ingredient of culture,--a as surely as discourtesy gains their disfavour pride, it is abominable; if from bad breeding, Better too much courtesy than too little, degenerates into injustice. Between opponents it is especially due as It costs little and helps much: every one Politeness and honour have this advantage, to others. 119. Avoid becoming Disliked. There is no occasion to seek dislike: it comes There are many who hate of their own accord Their ill-will outruns our readiness to please. Their ill-nature is more prone to do others advantage for themselves. Some manage to be on bad terms with all, because of spirit. Once hate has taken root it is, like bad repute, Wise men are feared, the malevolent are abhorred, with contempt, eccentrics with neglect. Therefore pay respect that you may be respected, esteem. 120. Live Practically. Even knowledge has to be in the fashion, and Thought and taste change with the times. Do not be old-fashioned in your ways of thinking, In everything the taste of the many carries it in the hope of leading it to higher things. In the adornment of the body as of the mind the past appear better. But this rule does not apply to kindness, It is neglected nowadays and seems out of Truth-speaking, keeping your word, and so old times: yet they are liked for all that, exist they are not in the fashion and are What a misfortune for our age that it regards of course! If you are wise, live as you can, if you cannot Think more highly of what fate has given you 121. Do not make a Business of what is no Business. As some make gossip out of everything, so They always talk big, take everything in earnest, Troublesome things must not be taken too seriously It is preposterous to take to heart that which Much that would be something has become nothing has become of consequence by being made much At the outset things can be easily settled, Often the remedy causes the disease. It is by no means the least of life's rules: 122. Distinction in Speech and Action. By this you gain a position in many places It shows itself in everything, in talk, in It is a great victory to conquer men's hearts: or pompous talk, but in a becoming tone of with true merit. 123. Avoid Affectation. The more merit, the less affectation, which It is wearisome to others and troublesome to care and tortures himself with attention. The most eminent merits lose most by it, for being the product of nature, and the natural One always feels sure that the man who affects The more pains you take with a thing, the appear to arise spontaneously from your own Do not, however, in avoiding affectation fall The sage never seems to know his own merits, others' attention to them. He is twice great who has all the perfections attains applause by two opposite paths. 124. Get Yourself missed. Few reach such favour with the many; if with When one has finished one's work, coldness But there are ways of earning this reward The sure way is to excel in your office and you reach the point where you become necessary Some do honour to their post, with others It is no great gain if a poor successor makes imply that the one is missed, but that the 125. Do not be a Black List. It is a sign of having a tarnished name to Some wish to hide their own stains with those they seek consolation therein--It is the They must have bad breath who form the sewers The more one grubs about in such matters, There are few without stain somewhere or other, failings are little known. Be careful then to avoid being a registrar That is to be an abominable thing, a man that 126. Folly consists not in committing Folly, but You should keep your desires sealed up, still All go wrong sometimes, but the wise try to Reputation depends more on what is hidden chastely, he must live cautiously. The errors of great men are like the eclipses Even in friendship it is rare to expose one's Nay, one should conceal them from oneself But here one can help with that other great 127. Grace in Everything. It is the life of talents, the breath of speech, Perfections are the adornment of our nature, It shows itself even in the thoughts. It is most a gift of nature and owes least It is more than ease, approaches the free the finishing touch to perfection. Without it beauty is lifeless, graciousness prudence, even majesty it-self. It is a short way to dispatch and an easy 128. Highmindedness. One of the principal qualifications for a nobility. It improves the taste, ennobles the heart, intensifies dignity. It raises him in whom it is found, and at only raises by striking. It can find full scope in the will when it Magnanimity, generosity, and all heroic qualities 129. Never complain. To complain always brings discredit. Better be a model of self-reliance opposed their compassion. For it opens the way for the hearer to what insult forms an excuse for another. By complaining of past offences we give occasion we only obtain indifference or contempt. It is much more politic to praise one man's follow suit. To recount the favours we owe the absent is thus we sell our credit with the one to the The shrewd will therefore never publish to only those marks of consideration which serve 130. Do and be seen Doing. Things do not pass for what they are but for To be of use and to know how to show yourself What is not seen is as if it was not. Even the Right does not receive proper consideration The observant are far fewer in number than Deceit rules the roast, and things are judged than they seem. A good exterior is the best recommendation 131. Nobility of Feeling. There is a certain distinction of the soul, that gives an air of grace to the whole character. It is not found often, for it presupposes Its chief characteristic is to speak well him. It shines brightest when a chance comes of pass, but it improves it by using a complete It is a fine stroke of policy, nay, the very It makes no pretence to victory, for it pretends it conceals its merits. 132. Revise your Judgments. To appeal to an inner Court of Revision makes Especially when the course of action is not improve your decision. It affords new grounds for strengthening or And if it is a matter of giving, the gift well considered than for being promptly bestowed: And if you have to deny, you gain time to it may be made palatable. Besides, after the first heat of desire is keenly in cold blood. But especially when men press for a reply that is only a feint to disarm attention. 133. Better Mad with the rest of the World than So say politicians. If all are so, one is no worse off than the So important is it to sail with the stream. The greatest wisdom often consists in ignorance, One has to live with others, and others are &quot;To live entirely alone one must be very like turn the aphorism by saying: Better be wise There be some too who seek to be original 134. Double your Resources. You thereby double your life. One must not depend on one thing or trust Everything should be kept double, especially The moon's mutability transcends everything of things dependent on human will, the most To guard against this inconstancy should be of life is to keep a double store of good Thus as Nature gives us in duplicate the most to risk, so Art should deal with the qualities 135. Do not nourish the Spirit of Contradiction. It only proves you foolish or peevish, and To find difficulties in everything may prove down a fool. Such folk make a mimic war out of the most as enemies towards their associates rather Grit grates most in delicacies, and so does They are both foolish and cruel who yoke together 136. Post Yourself in the Centre of Things. So you feel the pulse of affairs. Many lose their way either in the ramifications of wearisome verbosity without ever realising They go over a single point a hundred times, touch the all-important centre of affairs. This comes from a confusion of mind from which They waste time and patience on matters they afterwards for what they have left alone. 137. The Sage should be Self-sufficing. He that was all in all to himself carried If a universal friend can represent to us be his own universal friend, and then he is Whom could such a man want if there is no own? He would then depend on himself alone, which Being. He that can live alone resembles the brute in everything. 138. The Art of letting Things alone. The more so the wilder the waves of public There are hurricanes in human affairs, tempests harbour and ride at anchor. Remedies often make diseases worse: in such course and the moral suasion of time. It takes a wise doctor to know when not to consists in not applying remedies. The proper way to still the storms of the down of themselves. To give way now is to conquer by and by. A fountain gets muddy with but little stirring with it but by our leaving it alone. The best remedy for disturbances is to let 139. Recognise unlucky Days. They exist: nothing goes well on them; even remains. Two tries should be enough to tell if one Everything is in process of change, even the something to say, even how to write a good All perfection turns on the time; even beauty Even wisdom fails at times by doing too much To turn out well a thing must be done on its This is why with some everything turns out less trouble. They find everything ready, their wit prompt, star in the ascendant. At such times one must seize the occasion But a shrewd person will not decide on the fortune, for the one may be only a lucky chance 140. Find the Good in a Thing at once. It is the advantage of good taste. The bee goes to the honey for her comb, the So with taste: some seek the good, others There is nothing that has no good in it, especially But many have such a scent that amid a thousand and single it out for blame as if they were So they draw up a balance sheet of defects than to their intelligence. They lead a sad life, nourishing themselves They have the luckier taste who midst a thousand have hit upon by chance. 141. Do not listen to Yourself. It is no use pleasing yourself if you do not is the punishment for self-satisfaction. The attention you pay to yourself you probably To speak and at the same time listen to yourself If to talk to oneself when alone is folly, in the presence of others. It is a weakness of the great to talk with which bewilders their hearers. At every sentence they look for applause or So too the pompous speak with an echo, and aid of stilts, at every word they need the 142. Never from Obstinacy take the Wrong Side because the Right One. You begin the fight already beaten and must With bad weapons one can never win. It was astute in the opponent to seize the lagging after with the worst. Such obstinacy is more dangerous in actions risk than talk. It is the common failing of the obstinate and the useful by quarrelling with it. The sage never places himself on the side either discovering it first or improving it If the enemy is a fool, he will in such a worse way. Thus the only way to drive him from the better will cause him to desert it, and his obstinacy 143. Never become Paradoxical in order to avoid Both extremes damage our reputation. Every undertaking which differs from the reasonable The paradox is a cheat: it wins applause at it becomes discredited when the deceit is It is a species of jugglery, and in matters Those who cannot or dare not reach great deeds by way of Paradox, admired by fools but making It argues an unbalanced judgment, and if it certainly founded on the uncertain, and risks 144. Begin with Another's to end with your Own. It is a politic means to your end. Even in heavenly matters Christian teachers It is a weighty piece of dissimulation, for influence the other's will. His affair seems to be in train when it is One should never advance unless under cover, Likewise with persons who always say No at because the difficulty of conceding much more presented to them. This advice belongs to the rule about second of life. 145. Do not show your wounded Finger, for everything it, for malice always aims where weakness It is no use to be vexed: being the butt of Ill-will searches for wounds to irritate, thousand ways to sting to the quick. The wise never own to being hit, or disclose For even Fate sometimes likes to wound us It always mortifies wounded flesh. Never therefore disclose the source of mortification other to endure. 146. Look into the Interior of Things. Things are generally other than they seem, rind becomes disabused when you show the kernel. Lies always come first, dragging fools along Truth always lags last, limping along on the The wise therefore reserve for it the other has wisely given in duplicate. Deceit is very superficial, and the superficial Prudence lives retired within its recesses, 147. Do not be Inaccessible. None is so perfect that he does not need at He is an in-corrigible ass who will never Even the most surpassing intellect should Sovereignty itself must learn to lean. There are some that are incorrigible simply ruin because none dares to extricate them. The highest should have the door open for A friend must be free to advise, and even Our satisfaction in him and our trust in his One need not pay respect or give credit to man has a true mirror of a confidant to whom has to thank for it. 148. Have the Art of Conversation. That is where the real personality shows itself. No act in life requires more attention, though You must either lose or gain by it. If it needs care to write a letter which is how much more the ordinary kind in which there Experts feel the pulse of the soul in the I may know thee.&quot; Some hold that the art of conversation is not gaudy, like the garments. This holds good for talk between friends. But when held with persons to whom one would to answer to the dignity of the person addressed. To be appropriate it should adapt itself to And do not be a critic of words, or you will ideas, or men will avoid you, or at least in conversation discretion is more important 149. Know how to put off Ills on Others. To have a shield against ill-will is a great It is not the resort of incapacity, as ill-wishers having some one to receive the censure of detestation. Everything cannot turn out well, nor can every at the cost of our pride, to have such a scapegoat, 150. Know to get your Price for Things. Their intrinsic value is not sufficient; for the interior. Most go with the crowd, and go because they It is a great stroke of art to bring things praise arouses desire at times by giving them putting things at a premium, provided it is Again, it is generally an inducement to profess themselves such, and if not, the sense of Never call things easy or common: that makes All rush after the unusual, which is more intelligence. 151. Think beforehand. To-day for to-morrow, and even for many days The greatest foresight consists in determining For the provident there are no mischances We must not put off thought till we are up Mature reflection can get over the most formidable The pillow is a silent Sibyl, and it is better about them afterwards. Many act first and then think afterwards--that excuses: others think neither before nor after. The whole of life should be one course of Rumination and foresight enable one to determine 152. Never have a Companion who casts you in the The more he does so, the less desirable a The more he excels in quality the more in you second. If you get any consideration, it is only his The moon shines bright alone among the stars: or imperceptible. Never join one that eclipses you, but rather By this means the cunning Fabula in Martial owing to the ugliness and disorder of her But one should as little imperil oneself by at the cost of one's own credit. When you are on the way to fortune associate 153. Beware of entering where there is a great But if you do it be sure to surpass your predecessor; As it is a fine stroke to arrange that our so it is policy to see that our predecessor To fill a great gap is difficult, for the is not enough, since he has the right of first You must therefore possess additional claims opinion. 154. Do not Believe, or Like, lightly. Maturity of mind is best shown in slow belief. Lying is the usual thing; then let belief He that is lightly led away, soon falls into At the same time there is no necessity to for this adds insult to discourtesy, since or deceived. Nor is this the only evil: want of belief two failings: he neither believes nor is believed. Suspension of judgment is prudent in a hearer: of in-formation. There is a similar kind of imprudence in liking as well as in words, and this deceit is more 155. The Art of getting into a Passion. If possible, oppose vulgar importunity with for a really prudent man. The first step towards getting into a passion By this means you begin the conflict with one's passion to the exact point that is necessary This is the art of arts in falling into and You should know how and when best to come running at the double. It is a great proof of wisdom to remain clear-sighted Every excess of passion is a digression from But by this masterly policy reason will never own synteresis. To keep control of passion one must hold firm be the first man &quot;wise on horseback,&quot; and 156. Select your Friends. Only after passing the matriculation of experience graduates not alone in affection but in discernment. Though this is the most important thing in Intelligence brings friends to some, chance Yet a man is judged by his friends, for there At the same time, to find pleasure in a man's may come from the pleasantness of his company There are some friendships legitimate, others for their fecundity of ideas and motives. Few are the friends of a man's self, most The insight of a true friend is more useful them by choice, not by chance. A wise friend wards off worries, a foolish But do not wish them too much luck, or you 157. Do not make Mistakes about Character. That is the worst and yet easiest error. Better be cheated in the price than in the In dealing with men, more than with other To know men is different from knowing things. It is profound philosophy to sound the depths Men must be studied as deeply as books. 158. Make use of your Friends. This requires all the art of discretion. Some are good afar off, some when near. Many are no good at conversation but excellent failings which are unbearable in close proximity Friends are for use even more than for pleasure, or, as some say, of Being in general: unity, For a friend is all in all. Few are worthy to be good friends, and even how to pick them out. To keep is more important than to make friends. Select those that will wear well; if they will become old. Absolutely the best are those well salted, There is no desert like living without friends. Friendship multiplies the good of life and It is the sole remedy against misfortune, 159. Put up with Fools. The wise are always impatient, for he that folly. Much knowledge is difficult to satisfy. The first great rule of life, according to that the moiety of wisdom. To put up with all the varieties of folly We often have to put up with most from those self-control. Out of patience comes forth peace, the priceless But let him that bath no power of patience will have to put up with himself. 160. Be careful in Speaking. With your rivals from prudence; with others There is always time to add a word, never Talk as if you were making your will: the In trivial matters exercise yourself for the Profound secrecy has some of the lustre of He who speaks lightly soon falls or fails. 161. Know your pet Faults. The most perfect of men has them, and is either them. They are often faults of intellect, and the at least the more conspicuous. It is not so much that their possessor does evil: irrational affection for avoidable faults. They are spots on perfection; they displease It is a gallant thing to get clear of them, For all men hit upon such a failing, and on long stay at this blot, and blacken it as talents into the shade. 162. How to triumph over Rivals and Detractors. It is not enough to despise them, though this One cannot praise a man too much who speaks There is no more heroic vengeance than that and torment the envious. Every success is a further twist of the cord enemy's glory is the rival's hell. The envious die not once, but as oft as the The immortality of his fame is the measure honour, the other in endless pain. The clarion of Fame announces immortality death of envy long drawn out. 163. Never, from Sympathy with the Unfortunate, One man's misfortune is another man's luck, unlucky. It is a peculiarity of the unfortunate to them for the blows of fortune with their useless by all in prosperity is adored by all in adversity. Vengeance on the wing is exchanged for compassion Yet It is to be noticed how fate shuffles There are men who always consort with the happy stands to-day miserable at their side. That argues nobility of soul, but not worldly 164. Throw Straws in the Air, to find how things or success is doubtful. One can thus be assured of its turning out on in earnest or withdrawing entirely. By trying men's intentions in this way, the This is the great rule of foresight in asking, 165. Wage War Honourably. You may be obliged to wage war, but not to Every one must needs act as he is, not as Gallantry in the battle of life wins all men's not alone by force but by the way it is used. A mean victory brings no glory, but rather Honour always has the upper hand. An honourable man never uses forbidden weapons, the purposes of a hatred just begun: a confidence The slightest taint of treason tarnishes the In men of honour the smallest trace of meanness miles apart. Be able to boast that if gallantry, generosity, be able to find them again in your own breast. 166. Distinguish the Man of Words from the Man Discrimination here is as important as in which have all many varieties. Bad words even without bad deeds are bad enough: One cannot dine off words, which are wind, To catch birds with a mirror is the ideal It is the vain alone who take their wages Words should be the pledges of work, and, Trees that bear leaves but not fruit have Know them for what they are, of no use except 167. Know how to take your own Part. In great crises there is no better companion it must be strengthened from the neighbouring Worries die away before a man who asserts One must not surrender to misfortune, or else Many men do not help themselves in their troubles, to bear them. He that knows himself knows how to strengthen even the stars in their courses. 168. Do not indulge in the Eccentricities of Folly. Like vain, presumptuous, egotistical, untrustworthy, whimsical, inquisitive, paradoxical, sectarian they are all monstrosities of impertinence. All deformity of mind is more obnoxious than higher beauty. Yet who can assist such a complete confusion Where self-control is wanting, there is no Instead of paying attention to other people's with the unfounded assumption of their imaginary 169. Be more careful not to Miss once than to Hit No one looks at the blazing sun; all gaze The common talk does not reckon what goes Evil report carries farther than any applause. Many men are not known to the world till they All the exploits of a man taken together are Avoid therefore falling into error, seeing 170. In all Things keep Something in Reserve. It is a sure means of keeping up your importance. A man should not employ all his capacity and Even in knowledge there should be a rearguard, One must always have something to resort to The reserve is of more importance than the valour and reputation. Prudence always sets to work with assurance holds good that the half is more than the 171. Waste not Influence. The great as friends are for great occasions. One should not make use of great confidence favour. The sheet anchor should be reserved for the If you use up the great for little ends what Nothing is more valuable than a protector, It can make or unmake a whole world. It can even give sense and take it away. As Nature and Fame are favourable to the wise, It is therefore more important to keep the 172. Never contend with a Man who has nothing to conflict. The other enters without anxiety; having lost loss to fear. He therefore re-sorts to all kinds of insolence. One should never expose a valuable reputation years to gain may be lost in a moment, since A man of honour and responsibility has a reputation, He balances his own and the other's reputation: caution, and then goes to work with such circumspection time and bring his reputation under cover. For even by victory he cannot gain what he of loss. 173. Do not be Glass in Intercourse, still less Some break very easily, and thereby show their They attribute to themselves imaginary offences Their feelings are even more sensitive than jest or in earnest. Motes offend them: they need not wait for Those who consort with them must treat them their sensitiveness, and watch their demeanour, They are mostly very egoistic, slaves of their aside: they are the worshippers of punctilio. On the other hand, the disposition of the may be said that the Arrant is half adamant. 174. Do not live in a Hurry. To know how to separate things is to know Many finish their fortune sooner than their them, and would like to go back when they Postilions of life, they increase the ordinary They devour more in one day than they can advance of pleasures, eat up the years beforehand, too soon. Even in the search for knowledge there should left unknown. We have more days to live through than pleasures. Be slow in enjoyment, quick at work, for men with regret. 175. A Solid Man. One who is finds no satisfaction in those It is a pitiable eminence that is not well Not all are men that seem to be so. Some are sources of deceit; impregnated by Others are like them so far that they take much, than in the truth, because it performs But in the end these caprices come to a bad Only Truth can give true reputation: only One deceit needs many others, and so the whole to the ground. Unfounded things never reach old age. They promise too much to be much trusted, much. 176. Have Knowledge, or know those that have Knowledge. Without intelligence, either one's own or But many do not know that they do not know, Failings of the intelligence are incorrigible, and cannot therefore seek what they lack. Many would be wise if they did not think themselves Thus it happens that though the oracles of To seek advice does not lessen greatness or On the contrary, to ask advice proves you Take counsel with reason it you do not wish 177. Avoid Familiarities in Intercourse. Neither use them nor permit them. He that is familiar, loses any superiority The stars keep their brilliance by not making The Divine demands decorum. Every familiarity breeds contempt. In human affairs, the more a man shows, the communicate the failings that reserve might Familiarity is never desirable; with superiors it is unbecoming, least of all with the common they mistake favour shown them for need felt Familiarity trenches on vulgarity. Trust your Heart, especially when it has been Never deny it a hearing. It is a kind of house oracle that often foretells Many have perished because they feared their without finding a better remedy? Many are endowed by Nature with a heart so and wards off its effects. It is unwise to seek evils, unless you seek 179. Reticence is the Seal of Capacity. A breast without a secret is an open letter. Where there is a solid foundation secrets where things of moment may be hid. Reticence springs from self-control, and to You must pay ransom to each you tell. The security of wisdom consists in temperance The risk that reticence runs lies in the cross-questioning worm out secrets, in the darts of irony: to than before. What must be done need not be said, and what 180. Never guide the Enemy to what he has to do. The fool never does what the wise judge wise, means. He that is discreet follows still less a plan One has to discuss matters from both points Judgments vary; let him that has not decided is probable. 181. The Truth, but not the whole Truth. Nothing demands more caution than the truth: It requires as much to tell the truth as to A single lie destroys a whole reputation for The deceit is regarded as treason and the Yet not all truths can be spoken: some for 182. A Grain of Boldness in Everything. It is an important piece of prudence. You must moderate your opinion of others so to fear them. The imagination should never yield to the Many appear great till you know them personally, than to raise esteem. No one o'ersteps the narrow bounds of humanity: or head. Dignity gives apparent authority, which is Fortune often redresses the height of office The imagination always jumps too soon, and real: it thinks things not as they are but Attentive experience disillusionised in the Yet if wisdom should not be timorous, neither And if self-reliance helps the ignorant, how 183. Do not hold your Views too firmly. Every fool is fully convinced, and every one his judgment the more firmly he holds it. Even in cases of obvious certainty, it is view cannot escape notice, our courtesy in Our obstinacy loses more than our victory rather rudeness. There be some heads of iron most difficult sum is a wearisome fool. Steadfastness should be for the will, not Yet there are exceptions where one would fail and in the execution of it. 184. Do not be Ceremonious. Even in a king affectation in this was renowned To be punctilious is to be a bore, yet whole The garb of folly is woven out of such things. Such folk are worshippers of their own dignity, they fear that the least thing can destroy It is right to demand respect, but not to Yet it is true that a man to do without ceremonies Neither affect nor despise etiquette: he cannot 185. Never stake your Credit on a single Cast; It may easy happen that a man should fail not always favourable: hence they say, &quot;Every Always connect your second attempt with your will redeem the second. Always have resort to better means and appeal Things depend on all sorts of chances. That is why the satisfaction of success is 186. Recognise Faults, however high placed. Integrity cannot mistake vice even when clothed but will not be able to hide its character Slavery does not lose its vileness, however Vices may stand in high place, but are low Men can see that many a great man has great great because of them. The example of the great is so specious that may so affect those who flatter it that they the great they abominate in the lower classes. 187. Do pleasant Things Yourself, unpleasant Things By the one course you gain goodwill, by the A great man takes more pleasure in doing a of his generous nature. One cannot easily cause pain to another without remorse. In high place one can only work by means of yourself, inflict the other through others. Have some one against whom the weapons of For the rage of the mob is like that of a to bite the whip itself, and though this is 188. Be the Bearer of Praise. This increases our credit for good taste, to know what is excellent, and hence how to It gives material for conversation and for We do homage besides in a very delicate way Others do the opposite; they accompany their those present by belittling the absent. This may serve them with superficial people, ill of every one to every one else. Many pursue the plan of valuing more highly distinguished exploits of the past. Let the cautious penetrate through these subtleties, of the one or made over-confident by the flatteries same way by different methods, adapting their 189. Utilise Another's Wants. The greater his wants the greater the turn Philosophers say privation is non-existent, are right. Many make ladders to attain their ends out They make use of the opportunity and tantalise of satisfaction. The energy of desire promises more than the The passion of desire increases with every It is a subtle point to satisfy the desire 190. Find Consolation in all Things. Even the useless may find it in being immortal. No trouble without compensation. Fools are held to be lucky, and the good-luck Be worth little and you will live long: it but worries one with its durability. It seems that Fortune envies the great, so the use-less, a short one to the important. Those who bear the burden come soon to grief, on and on: in one case it appears so, in the The unlucky thinks he has been for-gotten 191. Do not take Payment in Politeness; for it Some do not need the herbs of Thessaly for the grace of their salute. Theirs is the Bank of Elegance, and they pay To promise everything is to promise nothing: The true courtesy is performance of duty: deceit. It is not respect but rather a means to power. Obeisance is paid not to the man but to his the qualities that are recognised but to the 192. Peaceful Life, a long Life. To live, let live. Peacemakers not only live: they rule life. Hear, see, and be silent. A day without dispute brings sleep without Long life and a pleasant one is life enough He has all that makes nothing of what is nothing There is no greater perversity than to take There is equal folly in troubling our heart taking to heart what does. 193. Watch him that begins with Another's to end Watchfulness is the only guard against cunning. Be intent on his intentions. Many succeed in making others do their own their motives you may at any moment be forced the damage of your own fingers. 194. Have reasonable Views of Yourself and of your Every one has a high opinion of himself, especially Every one dreams of his good-luck and thinks Hope gives rise to extravagant promises which Such idle imaginations merely serve as a well-spring true reality. The wise man anticipates such errors: he may but he always expects the worst, so as to True, It is wise to aim high so as to hit mission at the very beginning of life. This correction of the ideas is necessary, is sure to soar too high. The best panacea against folly is prudence. If a man knows the true sphere of his activity with reality. 195. Know how to Appreciate. There is none who cannot teach somebody something, To know how to make use of every one is useful Wise men appreciate all men, for they see make anything good. Fools depreciate all men, not recognising 196. Know your ruling Star. None so helpless as not to have one; if he it. Some stand high in the favour of princes and except that good luck itself has granted them to aid it with a little exertion. Others find favour with the wise. One man is better received by one nation than than in another. He finds more luck in one office or position are equal or even identical. Luck shuffles the cards how and when she will. Let each man know his luck as well as his or wins. Follow your guiding star and help it without be to miss the North, though its neighbour of thunder. 197. Do not carry Fools on your Back. He that does not know a fool when he sees him but will not keep clear of him. They are dangerous company and ruinous confidants. Even though their own caution and others' at length they are sure to do or to say some kept so long in stock. They cannot help another's credit who have none of their own. They are most unlucky, which is the Nemesis or the other. There is only one thing which is not so bad be of no use to the wise, they can be of much 198. Know how to transplant Yourself. There are nations with whom one must cross in great posts. Their native land is always a stepmother to native soil, and they remember one's small reached. A needle is appreciated that comes from one of painted glass might outvie the diamond Everything foreign is respected, partly because made and perfect. We have seen persons once the laughing-stock whole world, honoured by their fellow-countrymen by the latter because they come from afar, The statue on the altar is never reverenced 199. To find a proper Place by Merit, not by Presumption. The true road to respect is through merit, shorter. Integrity alone is not sufficient, push and by that means so besprinkled with dust that The true way is the middle one, half-way between it. 200. Leave Something to wish for, so as not to The body must respire and the soul aspire. If one possessed all, all would be disillusion Even in knowledge there should be always something and excite hope. Surfeits of happiness are fatal. In giving assistance it is a piece of policy If there is nothing left to desire, there happiness. When desire dies, fear is born. 201. They are all Fools who seem so besides half Folly arose with the world, and if there be But the greatest fool is he who thinks he To be wise It is not enough to seem wise, He knows who does not think that he knows, others see. Though all the world is full of fools, there the fact. 202. Words and Deeds make the Perfect Man. One should speak well and act honourably: other of the heart, and both arise from nobility Words are the shadows of deeds; the former It is more important to be renowned than to Speech is easy, action hard. Actions are the stuff of life, words its frippery. Eminent deeds endure, striking words pass Actions are the fruit of thought; if this 203. Know the great Men of your Age. They are not many. There is one Phoenix in the whole world, one philosopher in a century, a really illustrious Mediocrities are as numerous as they are worth-less: since it needs complete perfection, and the highest rank in it. Many have claimed the title &quot;Great,&quot; like great deeds the title is a mere breath of There have been few Senecas, and fame records 204. Attempt easy Tasks as if they were difficult, In the one case that confidence may not fall For a thing to remain undone nothing more On the other hand, patient industry overcomes Great undertakings are not to be brooded over, 205. Know how to play the Card of Contempt. It is a shrewd way of getting things you want, they are not to be had when sought for, but for them. As all mundane things are but shadows of the quality, that they flee from him who follows Contempt is besides the most subtle form of It is a fixed rule with the wise never to For such defence always leaves a stain, and punish his offence. It is a trick of the worthless to stand forth by a roundabout way, which they would never There are many we would not have heard of of them. There is no revenge like oblivion, through unworthiness. Audacious persons hope to make themselves the wonders of the world and of the ages. The art of reproving scandal is to take no notice of it, to combat it damages and is a source of satisfaction to our opponent, of our fame even if it cannot altogether deaden 206. Know that there are vulgar Natures everywhere, families. Every one may try the experiment within his But there is also such a thing as vulgar opposition This special kind shares all the qualities glass: but this kind is still more pernicious; a disciple of ignorance, a patron of folly, what it says, still less what it thinks. It is important to know vulgarity in order For all folly is vulgarity, and the vulgar 207. Be Moderate. One has to consider the chance of a mischance. The impulses of the passions cause prudence A moment of wrath or of pleasure carries you a short diversion may put a whole life to The cunning of others uses such moments of they use such thumbscrews as are wont to test Moderation serves as a counterplot, especially Much thought is needed to prevent a passion wise who is wise on horseback. He who knows the danger may with care pursue Light as a word may appear to him who throws it and ponders on it. 208. Do not die of the Fools' Disease. The wise generally die after they have lost it. To die of the fools' disease is to die of Some die because they think and feel too much: feel: these are fools because they do not A fool is he that dies of too much knowledge: others because they are not knowing enough. Yet though many die like fools, few die fools. 209. Keep Yourself free from common Follies. This is a special stroke of policy. They are of special power because they are away by any individual folly cannot escape Among these are to be counted the common prejudice however great, or unsatisfied with his intellect, Or again, that each, being discontented with that persons of to-day praise the things of Everything past seems best and everything He is as great a fool that laughs at all as 210. Know how to play the Card of Truth. It is dangerous, yet a good man cannot avoid But great skill is needed here: the most expert the means of sweetening the pill of truth. For when it deals with the destroying of illusion A pleasant manner has here an opportunity it can flatter one and fell another to the Matters of to-day should be treated as if For those who can understand a word is sufficient, silence. Princes must not be cured with bitter draughts; gild the pill of disillusion. In Heaven all is bliss: in Hell all misery. On earth, between the two, both one thing We stand between the two extremes, and therefore Fate varies: all is not good luck nor all This world is merely zero: by itself it is it means much. Indifference at its ups and downs is prudent, Our life gets as complicated as a comedy as resolved: see that the curtain comes down 212. Keep to Yourself the final Touches of your This is a maxim of the great masters who pride pupils: one must always remain superior, remain One must teach an art artfully. The source of knowledge need not be pointed By this means a man preserves the respect In amusing and teaching you must keep to the To keep a reserve is a great rule for life place. 213. Know how to Contradict. A chief means of finding things out--to embarrass The true thumbscrew, it brings the passions Tepid incredulity acts as an emetic on secrets. It is the key to a locked-up breast, and with mind and will. A sly depreciation of another's mysterious sweet bait brings them into the mouth till the net of astute deceit. By reserving your attention the other becomes while otherwise his heart were inscrutable. An affected doubt is the subtlest picklock wants to know. Also in learning it is a subtle plan of the takes pains to explain the truth more thoroughly produces complete instruction. 214. Do not turn one Blunder into two. It is quite usual to commit four others in of impertinence by still another. Folly is either related to, or identical with many to support one. The worst of a bad case is having to fight able to conceal it. The annuity of one failing serves to support A wise man may make one slip but never two, still. 215. Watch him that acts on Second Thoughts. It is a device of business men to put the and thus to conquer by being defeated: they They put themselves second so as to come out This method rarely fails if it is not noticed. Let therefore the attention never sleep when And if the other puts himself second so to it. Prudence can discern the artifices which such forward to gain his ends. He aims at one thing to get another: then at his target. It is well to know what you grant him, and that you understand. 216. Be Expressive. This depends not only on the clearness but Some have an easy conception but a hard labour, mind, thoughts and judgments, cannot be brought Many have a capacity like that of vessels Others again say more than they think. Resolution for the will, expression for the Plausible minds are applauded: yet confused are not understood, and at times obscurity yet how shall the audience understand one says? 217. Neither Love nor Hate, for ever. Trust the friends of to-day as if they will kind. As this happens in reality, let it happen Do not put weapons in the hand for deserters On the other hand, leave the door of reconciliation of generosity so much the more safe. The vengeance of long ago is at times the we have done is turned to grief, Never act from Obstinacy but from Knowledge. All obstinacy is an excrescence of the mind, right. There are persons who make a war out of everything, All that they undertake must end in victory; Such men are fatal when they rule and govern, out of those whom they ought to regard as They try to effect everything with strategy But when others have recognised their perverse overturn their chimerical plans, and they of troubles, since everything serves to increase They have a head turned and a heart spoilt. Nothing can be done with such monsters except where the savagery is easier to bear than 219. Do not pass for a Hypocrite, though such men Be considered rather prudent than astute. Sincerity in behaviour pleases all, though Sincerity should not degenerate into simplicity Be rather respected as wise than feared as The open-hearted are loved but deceived. The great art consists in disclosing what In the golden age simplicity flourished, in 'The reputation of being a man who knows what but to be considered a hypocrite is deceptive 220. If you cannot clothe Yourself in Lionskin To follow the times is to lead them. He that gets what he wants never loses his Cleverness when force will not do. One way or another, the king's highway of Skill has effected more than force, and astuteness other way. When you cannot get a thing then is the time 221. Do not seize Occasions to embarrass Yourself There are some men stumbling-blocks of good they are always on the point of some stupidity. You meet with them easily and part from them A hundred annoyances a day is nothing to them. Their humour always strokes the wrong way They put on the judgment cap wrong side foremost Yet the greatest test of others' patience and speak ill of all. There are many monsters in the wide realm 222. Reserve is proof of Prudence. The tongue is a wild beast; once let loose It is the pulse of the soul by which wise observer feels every movement of the heart. The worst is that he who should be most reserved The sage saves himself from worries and embarrassments, He goes his way carefully, a Janus for impartiality, Truly Momus had better placed the eyes in 223. Be not Eccentric, neither from affectation Many have some remarkable and individual quality These are more defects than excellent differences. And just as some are known for some special in their outward behaviour. Such eccentricities simply serve as trademarks cause either derision or ill-will. 224. Never take Things against the Grain, no matter Everything has a smooth and a seamy side, blade, while the enemy's spear may be our Many things cause pain which would cause pleasure There is a favourable and an unfavourable in finding out the favourable. The same thing looks quite different in another and do not exchange good for evil. Thus it haps that many find joy, many grief, This remark is a great protection against of life for all times and all conditions. 225. Know your chief Fault. There lives none that has not in himself' if this be nourished by desire it may grow Commence war against it, summoning prudence the public manifesto, for an evil once known afflicted regards it in the same light as To be master of oneself one should know oneself. If the chief imperfection surrender, the rest 226. Take care to be Obliging. Most talk and act, not as they are, but as To persuade people of ill is easy for any, at times it is incredible. The best we have depends on the opinion of Some are satisfied if they have right on their be assisted by energy. To oblige persons often costs little and helps With words you may purchase deeds. In this great house of the world there is one day in the year, and then you would miss Every one speaks of a subject according to 227. Do not be the Slave of First Impressions. Some marry the very first account they hear: But as a lie has swift legs, the truth with We should neither satisfy our will with the for that were superficial. Many are like new casks who keep the scent or bad. If this superficiality becomes known, it becomes mischief; the ill-minded hasten to colour Always therefore leave room for a second hearing. Alexander always kept one ear for the other Wait for the second or even third edition To be the slave of your impressions argues the slave of your passions. Do not be a Scandal-monger. Still less pass for one, for that means to Do not be witty at the cost of others: it All men have their revenge on such an one and he but one, he is more likely to be overcome Evil should never be our pleasure, and therefore The backbiter is always hated, and if now it is less from pleasure in his sneers than He that speaks ill will always hear worse. 229. Plan out your Life wisely, not as chance will Without amusements it is wearisome, like a knowledge gives manifold pleasure. The first day's journey of a noble life should live to know and to know our-selves: hence The second day should be spent with the living, Everything is not to be found in a single The Universal Father has divided His gifts, the ugliest. The third day is entirely for oneself. The last felicity is to be a philosopher. Open your Eyes betimes. Not all that see have their eyes open, nor To come up to things too late is more worry Some just begin to see when there is nothing their ears before they come to themselves. It is difficult to give sense to those who to give energy to those who have no sense. Those who surround them play with them a game of others, and be-cause they are hard of hearing, There are often those who encourage such insensibility Unhappy steed whose rider is blind: it will 231. Never let Things be seen half-finished. They can only be enjoyed when complete. All beginnings are misshapen, and this deformity The recollection of having seen a thing imperfect To swallow something great at one gulp may but satisfies the taste. Till a thing is everything, it is nothing, still nothing. To see the tastiest dishes prepared arouses Let each great master take care not to let they might take this lesson from Dame Nature, it is fit to be seen. 232. Have a Touch of the Trader. Life should not be all thought: there should Very wise folk are generally easily deceived, they do not know the ordinary things of life, The observation of higher things leaves them Since they know not the very first thing they they are either considered or thought ignorant Let therefore the prudent take care to have to prevent him being deceived and so laughed if not the highest is the most necessary thing Of what use is knowledge if it is not practical, knowledge. 233. Let not the proffered Morsel be distasteful; Some displease when attempting to oblige, of taste. What is flattery to one is an offence to another, insulting. It often costs more to displease a man than lose both gift and thanks because you have He who knows not another's taste, knows not Thus it haps that many insult where they mean so. Others desire to charm by their conversation, 234. Never trust your Honour to another, unless Arrange that silence is a mutual advantage; Where honour is at stake you must act with the other's honour for the sake of his own. Never entrust your honour to another; but Let the danger be in common and the risk mutual, 235. Know how to Ask. With some nothing easier: with others nothing For there are men who cannot refuse: with But with others their first word at all times with all the propitious moment. Surprise them when in a pleasant mood, when refreshed, if only their shrewdness has not The days of joy are the days of favour, for outward creation. It is no use applying when another has been been overcome. Nor is it a good time after sorrow. To oblige a person beforehand is a sure way, 236. Make an Obligation beforehand of what would This is a stroke of subtle policy; to grant of being obliging. Favours thus granted beforehand have two great the recipient the more strongly; and the same is beforehand an obligation. This is a subtle means of transforming obligations, to reward is changed into one that obliges But this is only suitable for men who have of lower stamp the honorarium paid beforehand 237. Never share the Secrets of your Superiors. You may think you will share pears, but you Many have been ruined by being confidants: they run the same risk of being eaten up afterwards. It is no favour in a prince to share a secret: Many break the mirror that reminds them of We do not like seeing those who have seen light who has seen us in an unfavourable one. None ought to be too much beholden to us, for benefits done him rather than for such Especially dangerous are secrets entrusted He that communicates his secret to another With a prince this is an intolerable position He will desire to recover his lost liberty, right and reason. Accordingly neither tell secrets nor listen 238. Know what is wanting in Yourself. Many would have been great personages if they they could not rise to the height of perfection. It is remarkable with some that they could something. They do not perhaps take themselves seriously some are wanting in geniality of disposition, the want of, especially if they are in high Some are without organising ability, others In all such cases a careful man may make of 239. Do not be Captious. It is much more important to be sensible. To know more than is necessary blunts your break. Common-sense truth is the surest. It is well to know but not to niggle. Lengthy comment leads to disputes. It is much better to have sound sense, which 240. Make use of Folly. The wisest play this card at times, and there seeming not to be wise. You need not be unwise, but merely affect To be wise with fools and foolish with the Speak to each in his own language. He is no fool who affects folly, but he is Ingenuous folly rather than the pretended has arrived at such a pitch. To be well liked one must dress in the skin 241. Put up with Raillery, but do not practise The first is a form of courtesy, the second To snarl at play has something of the beast Audacious raillery is delightful: to stand To show oneself annoyed causes the other to Best leave it alone; the surest way not to The most serious matters have arisen out of Nothing requires more tact and attention. Before you begin to joke know how far the 242. Push Advantages. Some put all their strength in the commencement They invent but never execute. These be paltering spirits. They obtain no fame, for they sustain no game Everything stops at a single stop. This arises in some from impatience, which is the virtue of the Belgian. The latter bring things to an end, the former They sweat away till the obstacle is surmounted, they do not know how to push the victory home. They prove that they can but will not: but no stability. If the undertaking is good, why not finish If it is bad, why undertake it? Strike down your quarry, if you are wise; 243. Do not be too much of a Dove. Alternate the cunning of the serpent with Nothing is easier than to deceive an honest He believes in much who lies in naught; who To be deceived is not always due to stupidity, There are two sets of men who can guard themselves at their own cost, and those who have observed Prudence should use as much suspicion as subtlety enable others to do him ill. Combine in yourself the dove and the serpent, 244. Create a feeling of Obligation. Some transform favours received into favours that they are doing a favour when receiving There are some so astute that they get honour applause from others. They manage matters so cleverly that they one from them. They transpose the order of obligation with doubtful who has obliged whom. They buy the best by praising it, and make express. They oblige by their courtesy, and thus make be beholden. In this way they conjugate &quot;to oblige&quot; in thereby proving themselves better politicians This is a subtle piece of finesse; a still on such fools' bargains by paying in their 245. Original and out-of-the-way Views are signs We do not think much of a man who never contradicts that he loves himself. Do not be deceived by flattery, and thereby Besides you may take credit for being censured the good speak ill. On the contrary, it should disturb us if our that they are of little worth. Perfection is for the few. 246. Never offer Satisfaction unless it is demanded. And if they do demand it, it is a kind of To excuse oneself before there is occasion To draw blood in full health gives the hint An excuse unexpected arouses suspicion from Nor need a shrewd person show himself aware to seeking out offence. He had best disarm distrust by the integrity 247. Know a little more, live a little less. Some say the opposite. To be at ease is better than to be at business. Nothing really belongs to us but time, which It is equally unfortunate to waste your precious of important work. Do not heap up occupation and thereby envy: your mind. Some wish to apply the same principle to knowledge, 248. Do not go with the last Speaker. There are persons who go by the latest edition, Their feelings and desires are of wax: the all previous impressions. These never gain anything, for they lose everything Every one dyes them with his own colour. They are of no use as confidants; they remain Owing to this instability of feeling and volition, and totter from one side of the road to the 249. Never begin Life with what should end it. Many take their amusement at the beginning, should come first and accessories afterwards Others wish to triumph before they have fought. Others again begin with learning things of would bring them fame and gain to the end Another is just about to make his fortune Method is essential for knowledge and for 250. When to change the Conversation. When they talk scandal. With some all goes contrariwise: their No If they speak ill of a thing it is the highest For what they want for them-selves they depreciate To praise a thing is not always to speak well good, praise what's bad, and nothing is good 251. Use human Means as if there were no divine ones. A masterly rule: it needs no comment. 252. Neither belong entirely to Yourself nor entirely Both are mean forms of tyranny. To desire to be all for oneself is the same Such persons will not yield a jot or lose They are rarely beholden, lean on their own It is convenient at times to belong to others, And he that holds public office is no more give up both berth and burthen, as the old On the other hand, others are all for others, in this case in a most unfortunate manner. No day, no hour, is their own, but they have called the slaves of all. This applies even to knowledge, where a man for himself. A shrewd man knows that others when they seek him and by him. 253. Do not Explain overmuch. Most men do not esteem what they understand, To be valued things should cost dear: what You have to appear wiser and more prudent requires with whom you deal, if you desire this there should be moderation and no excess. And though with sensible people common sense is necessary. Give them no time for blame: occupy them with Many praise a thing without being able to The reason is that they venerate the unknown it praised. 254. Never despise an Evil, however small, for like pieces of good fortune. Fortune and misfortune generally go to find Hence all avoid the unlucky and associate Even the doves with all their innocence resort Everything fails with the unfortunate--himself, Do not wake Misfortune when she sleeps. One slip is a little thing: yet some fatal it will end. For just as no happiness is perfect, so no Patience serves with what comes from above; 255. Do Good a little at a time, but often. One should never give beyond the possibility Who gives much does not give but sells. Nor drain gratitude to the dregs, for when he breaks off correspondence. With many persons it is not necessary to do lose them altogether: they cannot repay you, enemies than perpetual debtors. The idol never wishes to see before him the wish to see his benefactor always before his There is a great subtlety in giving what costs esteemed the more. 256. Go armed against Discourtesy, and against of folly. There is much of it in the world, and prudence Arm yourself each day before the mirror of Thus you will beat down the attacks of folly. Be prepared for the occasion, and do not expose Armed with prudence, a man cannot be disarmed The road of human intercourse is difficult, credit. Best to take a byway, taking Ulysses as a Feigned misunderstanding is of great value Aided by politeness it helps us over all, 257. Never let Matters come to a Rupture, for our encounter. Every one may be of importance as an enemy Few can do us good, almost any can do us harm. In Jove's bosom itself even his eagle never with a beetle. Hidden foes use the paw of the declared enemy in ambush for such an occasion. Friends provoked become the bitterest of enemies. They cover their own failings with the faults Every one speaks as things seem to him, and All blame us at the beginning for want of at all times for imprudence. If, however, a breach is inevitable, let it than by an outburst of wrath: here is a good 258. Find out some one to share your Troubles. You will never be all alone, even in dangers, Some think by their high position to carry bear the whole humiliation of defeat. In this way they have none to excuse them, Neither fate nor the mob are so bold against Hence the wise physician, if he has failed the name of a consultation, may help him carry Share weight and woe, for misfortune falls 259. Anticipate Injuries and turn them into Favours. It is wiser to avoid than to revenge them. It is an uncommon piece of shrewdness to change guards of honour those who were aiming attacks It helps much to know how to oblige, for he up with gratitude. That is true savoir faire to turn anxieties Try and make a confidential relation out of 260. We belong to none and none to us, entirely. Neither relationship nor friendship nor the effect this. To give one's whole confidence is quite different The closest intimacy has its exceptions, without The friend always keeps one secret to himself, his father. Some things are kept from one that are revealed In this way one reveals all and conceals all, with whom we are connected. 261. Do not follow up a Folly. Many make an obligation out of a blunder, think it proves their strength of character Within they regret their error, while outwardly At the beginning of their mistake they were Neither an unconsidered promise nor a mistaken Yet some continue in their folly and prefer 262. Be able to Forget. It is more a matter of luck than of skill. The things we remember best are those better Memory is not only unruly, leaving us in the putting its nose into places where it is not In painful things it is active, but neglectful Very often the only remedy for the ill is Nevertheless one should cultivate good habits a Paradise or an Inferno. The happy are an exception who enjoy innocently 263. Many things of Taste one should not possess One enjoys them better if another's than if The owner has the good of them the first day, others. You take a double enjoyment in other men's and with the pleasure of novelty. Everything tastes better for having been without like nectar. Possession not alone hinders enjoyment: it You gain nothing except keeping things for enemies than friends. 264. Have no careless Days. Fate loves to play tricks, and will heap up Our intelligence, prudence, and courage, even For their day of careless trust will be that Care always fails just when it was most wanted. It is thoughtlessness that trips us up into Accordingly it is a piece of military strategy The days of parade are known and are allowed expected so as to put valour to the severest 265. Set those under you difficult Task, Many have to deal with a difficulty, just as fear of way many have discovered their own courage, would have been for ever buried beneath their Dangers are the occasions to create a name at stake, he will do the work of thousands. Queen Isabella the Catholic knew well this to a shrewd favour of this kind from her the earned an undying name. By this great art she made great men. 266. Do not become Bad from sheer Goodness. That is, by never getting into a temper. Such men without feeling are scarcely to be It does not always arise from laziness, but To feel strongly on occasion is something It is a sign of good taste to combine bitter All sweets is diet for children and fools. It is very bad to sink into such insensibility 267. Silken Words, sugared Manners. Arrows pierce the body, insults the soul. Sweet pastry perfumes the breath. It is a great art in life to know how to sell Most things are paid for in words, and by Thus we deal in air, and a royal breath can Always have your mouth full of sugar to sweeten enjoy them. To please one must be peaceful. 268. The Wise do at once what the Fool does at Both do the same thing; the only difference right time, the other at the wrong. Who starts out with his mind topsyturvy will He catches by the foot what he ought to knock in all his acts is but a child. There is only one way to get him in the right might have done of his own accord. The wise man, on the other hand, sees at once it willingly and gains honour thereby, Make use of the Novelty of your Position; Novelty pleases all because it is uncommon, is thought more of than accustomed excellence. Ability wears away by use and becomes old. However, know that the glory of novelty is Accordingly, learn to utilise the first fruits passage of applause all that can be put to For once the heat of novelty over, the passion for satiety at the customary: believe that 270. Do not condemn alone that which pleases all. There must be something good in a thing that it is certainly enjoyed. Singularity is always hated, and, when in You simply destroy respect for your taste blame, and are left alone, you and your bad If you cannot find the good in a thing, hide As a general rule bad taste springs from want What all say, is so, or will be so. 271. In every Occupation if you know little stick If you are not respected as subtle, you will On the other hand, a man well trained can To know little and yet seek danger is nothing In such a case take stand on the right hand, Let little knowledge keep to the king's highway, is shrewder than singularity. Sell Things by the Tariff of Courtesy. You oblige people most that way. The bid of an interested buyer will never of a favour. Courtesy does not really make presents, but is the great obligation. To a right-minded man nothing costs more dear and for two prices: one for the value, one At the same time it is true that with vulgar not understand the language of good breeding. 273. Comprehend their Dispositions with whom you Cause known, effect known, beforehand in the The melancholy man always foresees misfortunes, of the good, evil offers itself to them. A man moved by passion always speaks of things passion speaks, not his reason. Thus each speaks as his feeling or his humour Learn how to decipher faces and spell out If a man laughs always, set him down as foolish; Beware of the gossip: he is either a babbler Expect little good from the misshapen: they honour to her, as she has done little to them. Beauty and folly generally go hand in hand. 274. Be Attractive. magnet of your pleasant qualities more to it to all. Merit is not enough unless supported by grace, acceptance, and the most practical means of To be in vogue is a matter of luck, yet it take root on a soil favoured by nature. There goodwill grows and develops into universal 275. Join in the Game as far as Decency permits. Do not always pose and be a bore: this is You may yield a touch of dignity to gain the where most go, yet not beyond the bounds of He who makes a fool of himself in public will One may lose more on a day of pleasure than Still you must not always keep away: to be Still less act the prude--leave that to its ridiculous. Nothing so becomes a man as to be a man: a but not vice versa. Know how to renew your Character, with the years the disposition changes, they say. Let it be a change for the better and for After the first seven comes reason, with each added. Observe this change so as to aid it, and hope Hence it arises that many change their behaviour At times the change is not noticed till it At twenty Man is a Peacock, at thirty a Lion, a Dog, at seventy an Ape, at eighty nothing 277. Display yourself. It is the illumination of talents: for each for not every day comes a triumph. There are some dashing men who make much show If ability to display them is joined to versatile There are whole nations given to display: this. Light was the first thing to cause Creation Display fills up much, supplies much, and when combined with real excellence. Heaven that grants perfection, provides also other were abortive. Skill is however needed for display. Even excellence depends on circumstances and Ostentation is out of place when it is out More than any other quality it should be free This is its rock of offence, for it then borders to avoid being vulgar, and any excess is despised At times it consists in a sort of mute eloquence, concealment is often the most effective boast, curiosity to the highest. It is a fine subtlety too not to display one's glances at it, more and more as time goes Each exploit should be the pledge of a greater, away in expectation of its sequel. 278. Avoid Notoriety in all Things. Even excellences become defects if they become Notoriety arises from singularity, which is severely alone. Even beauty is discredited by coxcombry, which Still more does this apply to discreditable Yet among the wicked there are some that seek so as to attain to the fame of infamy. Even in matters of the intellect want of moderation 279. Do not contradict the Contradicter. You have to distinguish whether the contra-diction It is not always obstinacy, but may be artfulness. Notice this: for in the first case one may Caution is never more needed than against There is no such countercheck to the picklock in the lock. 280. Be Trustworthy. Honourable dealing is at an end: trusts are service, the poorer the reward: that is the There are whole nations inclined to false be feared, with others breach of promise, Yet this bad behaviour of others should rather The fear is that the sight of such unworthy But a man of honour should never forget what 281. Find Favour with Men of Sense. The tepid Yes of a remarkable man is worth you cannot make a meal off the smoke of chaff. The wise speak with understanding and their The sage Antigonus reduced the theatre of his whole school. Some strive to fill their stomach albeit only Even monarchs have need of authors, and fear pencil. 282. Make use of Absence to make yourself more If the accustomed presence diminishes fame, One that is regarded as a lion in his absence result of the parturition of the mountains. Talents get soiled by use, for it is easier greatness it encloses. Imagination reaches farther than sight, and the ears, also goes out through the ears. He keeps his fame that keeps himself in the Even the Phoenix uses its retirement for new 283. Have the Gift of Discovery. It is a proof of the highest genius, yet when If discovery be a gift of genius, choice of Discovery comes by special grace and very For many can follow up a thing when found, and those the first in excellence and in age. Novelty flatters, and if successful gives In matters of judgment novelties are dangerous genius they deserve all praise. Yet both equally deserve applause if successful. 284. Do not be Importunate, and so you will not Respect yourself if you would have others Be sooner sparing than lavish with your presence. You will thus become desired and so well received. Never come unasked and only go when sent for. If you undertake a thing of your own accord the thanks If it succeeds. The importunate is always the butt of blame; shame he is thrust out with it. 285. Never die of another's Ill-luck. Notice those who stick in the mud, and observe console themselves with a companion in misfortune. They seek some one to help them to bear misfortune, on them in prosperity give them now a helping There is great caution needed in helping the 286. Do not become responsible for all or for every slave of all. Some are born more fortunate than others: it. Freedom is more precious than any gifts for Lay less stress on making many dependent on any. The sole advantage of power is that you can Above all do not regard responsibility as to make one dependent on him. 287. Never act in a Passion. If you do, all is lost. You cannot act for yourself if you are not In such cases inter-pose a prudent go-between That is why lookers-on see most of the game, As soon as you notice that you are losing For no sooner is the blood up than it is spilt, for many days' repentance for oneself and 288. Live for the Moment. Our acts and thoughts and all must be determined Will when you may, for time and tide wait Do not live by certain fixed rules, except Nor let your will subscribe fixed conditions, which you cast away to-day. There be some so absurdly paradoxical that should bend to their eccentric whims and not The wise man knows that the very polestar 289. Nothing depreciates a Man more than to show The day he is seen to be very human he ceases Frivolity is the exact opposite of reputation. And as the re-served are held to be more than No failing causes such failure of respect. For frivolity is the exact opposite of solid A man of levity cannot be a man of weight him to be prudent. Although this blemish is so common it is none 290. It is a piece of good Fortune to combine Men's Generally one dare not be liked if one would Love is more sensitive than hate. Love and honour do not go well together. So that one should aim neither to be much Love introduces confidence, and the further Prefer to be loved with respect rather than for many. 291. Know how to Test. The care of the wise must guard against the Great judgment is needed to test that of another. It is more important to know the characteristics and minerals. It is indeed one of the shrewdest things in You can tell metals by their ring and men Words are proof of integrity, deeds still Here one requires extraordinary care, deep decision. 292. Let your personal Qualities surpass those about. How-ever high the post, the person should An extensive capacity expands and dilates On the other hand, the narrow-minded will responsibilities and reputation. The great Augustus thought more of being a Here a lofty mind finds fit place, and well-grounded 293. Maturity. It is shown in the costume, still more in Material weight is the sign of a precious Maturity gives finish to his capacity and A composed bearing in a man forms a facade It does not consist in the insensibility of a calm tone of authority. With men of this kind sentences are orations Maturity finishes a man off, for each is so maturity. On ceasing to be a child a man begins to gain 294. Be moderate in your Views. Every one holds views according to his interest, For with most men judgment has to give way It may occur that two may meet with exactly reason on his side, yet reason is always true In such a difficulty a prudent man will go opponent's view may cast doubt on his own. Place yourself in such a case in the other for his opinion. You will not then condemn him or justify yourself 295. Do not affect what you have not effected. Many claim exploits without the slightest 'With the greatest coolness they make a mystery Chameleons of applause they afford others Vanity is always objectionable, here it is These ants of honour go crawling about filching The greater your exploits the less you need leave the talking to others. Give away your deeds but do not sell them. And do not hire venal pens to write down praises ones. Aspire rather to be a hero than merely to 296. Noble Qualities. Noble qualities make noblemen: a single one mediocre ones. There was once a man who made all his belongings, How much more ought a great man see that the In God all is eternal and infinite, so in so that all his deeds, nay, all his words, 297. Always act as if your Acts were seen. He must see all round who sees that men see He knows that walls have ears and that ill Even when alone he acts as if the eyes of For as he knows that sooner or later all will as witnesses who must afterwards hear of the He that wished the whole world might always see him over their walls. 298. Three Things go to a Prodigy. They are the choicest gifts of Heaven's prodigality--a and refined taste. To think well is good, to think right is better: It will not do for the judgment to reside than use. To think aright is the fruit of a reasonable At twenty the will rules; at thirty the intellect; There are minds that shine in the dark like there is most darkness. Others are more adapted for the occasion: such a quality produces much and good; a sort In the meantime good taste seasons the whole 299. Leave off Hungry. One ought to remove even the bowl of nectar Demand is the measure of value. Even with regard to bodily thirst it is a it. Little and good is twice good. The second time comes a great falling off. Surfeit of pleasure was ever dangerous and The only way to please is to revive the appetite If you must excite desire, better do it by of enjoyment. Happiness earned gives double joy. 300. In one word, be a Saint. So is all said at once. Virtue is the link of all perfections, the She it is that makes a man prudent, discreet, trustworthy, happy, honoured, truthful, and Three HHH's make a man happy--Health, Holiness, Virtue is the sun of the microcosm, and has She is so beautiful that she finds favour Nothing is lovable but virtue, nothing detestable Virtue alone is serious, all else is but jest. A man's capacity and greatness are to be measured She alone is all-sufficient. She makes men lovable in life, memorable after