-All right, where you get to ride Ouch, it's Happy Wheels. Just when I think the art in this game yes, a Yeetasaurus Rex, There's so much here, Also, what is Mega Butter? It's like butter, I also enjoy the fact that the, As I understand it, and so I must find all of them, that is, [gasps] I was almost inside The Ultra Potato is impressively dainty, You would think it's Oh, I touched the Fork of Sadness. [laughs] Right next to the butter knife Uh, whoa, whoa, whoa, [laughs] that's just the Yeetasaurus Rex. Remember how I said the art I think we had just witnessed possibly -Oh my leg. -Oh my leg. Clearly, Oh, I got Lord of Holes. Nothing I love more where all your yeeting begins. Ah, yes, the Trash Yeet. Hey, Mega Butter. More Mega Butter, what? Well, that's pretty much it. I think I'm going to die I'm not gonna lie, the other two ways to die, Don't worry, Oh, Jesus. I like how we go Also, back here, we have the Warm Yeet, All right, death, I'm sure my bottles of-- [tone] All right, they completely I was gonna say my bottles of, uh, mustard over here Ah, the Yeet Cl-- Mmm, I think I found the other way to die. All right, one left. Now I noticed by the Yeetasaurus, with which we could take. Clearly, that will-that will lead us All right, got the Epic Yeet. Oh, oh, the Yeet Cleaver. Ooh, no, it was deflected Wait a second, into Warm Yeet and Reverse Yeet. All right, Oh, Yeetus Maximus. All right, and boop. [roaring] -Uh, I'm not exactly sure how, into the Gray Will Find a Way area. [laughs] I wish I had an answer for you, Oh, also I got on top I guess the real question is, There we go, Woo, the Secret Yeet, I actually didn't even know it was just a bunch All right, I thought maybe but I guess I was wrong. Satan, okay, that's very nice. I like that I'm going through literally How difficult is it to just meet my doom? Ah, ah. [laughs] I'm not gonna lie, When you can balance a bottle of alcohol that's when you know you- -Oh, my leg. Aha, the Rainbow Rectum, finally. You have no idea how long I have tried. Wow. Oh, oh, uh-oh, oh. Ooh, I think this might be Yay, I'm a winner. This is called Meteor Run, [screams] Now, what am I supposed to-- Woo, ooh, I'm still alive. I'm fine, I'm fine. Oh, God, all that's fine. I am now a hood ornament. Ah, all right, get ready boys. [screams] My tires are coming off. Ouch. Go as fast as you like they said. Okay, get ready and all right, slow down, Hurt. Mm. Maybe I'll just go Ouch, ouch. I should have Oh, yeah, this is-- This one actually looks really good. Okay, now I'm coming out of that. I-I won, I beat the meteor. [chuckles] Like the media can't kill-- I mean, I also can't complete I need to see. What is that? The end and lean, lean, lean, lean, lean, Perfect. Yes, got it. This is called Pogo Fight Shrooms. It says find the magic mushroom. This is a fantastically drawn background. Let's backdrop, they're really taking it Okay, all right. Well, I-I think I found over here and what? I just got murdered by a tree. Okay, whoa. What is that? It's like a guy wearing a Turkey Is that Medusa? It's like discount store Medusa. I dub thee Medulla. All right, I guess, I don't know. I'm still trying to figure out what Don't mind me, Oh, he's stuck inside of my pogo stick. Get off. There we go. All right, do this and backflip, perfect. And right, I'm kind of stuck All right, [screams] you know what? Sure, come on with me. We'll do this together, Medusa. What a-- What is this? What is this? Look at the eyes. It's just like a shrub. How come I had, you know, and then just an angry shrub with a spear? [chuckles] Okay, angry shrub with a spear, Yeah, you go-got you. [laughs] This is just a rock. The people I have to battle And boop, got it. Oh, I found the mushrooms. Is that it? Like, if I-if I touch them, do I win or--? What? I was lied to in ways Okay, you wan-you wanna do this the hard way? Oh, no, no, no, no. -I'm still alive, ah. And get wrecked. Now I know that your pogo fight I trust nothing from now on. Yeets. Out of the way, shrubacus. I seriously want this guy [chuckles] Ow. Oh, I'm still alive, I'm fine. Never mind. No, I'm not. Uh-oh, uh-oh, there we go. Okay, good and flip, Take care of Medulla. Take care of the shrub of destiny. Medusa, your tentacles Up here, full flip. Get over Dwayne Johnson. Why are we still here? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Uh, the rock is alive, fuck. Okay, um, the rock is like Oh, God, no, No, whoa. No, no, it's coming after me. Yes. Okay, I made it past the-I made Okay, so don't touch the mushrooms. Oh, I touched them. Oh, I'm still alive. And Yeet. Wh-wh-what-what was that? Was it like a violent dandelion? I don't know what just tried to kill me, Now the rocks coming after me. Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. Oh. Touch the mushroom, step away and wait. Oh, all right, li-like with my head or--? Oh, ooh. You will be rewarded now. Yay, I did it. Oh, I can't believe Uh, yes, the time has come once again There goes my helmet. Oh, there actually I love it. Then I get massaged slide up with my tongue into a cannon. This is actually in case you were wondering. We spend at least half of our to get shot out so we can get plastered Did that see hello there? [chuckles] Okay, past Indiana Jones, losing most of our flesh on the hillside beautiful dodge, then get massaged This is a long process. I have no idea-- I don't even know lasts this long. Back down. [chuckles] Oh, whoa, ah. RIP segway guy. This entire don't move Oh, don't lie, none of you are sad. I love how even the flower is crying. This is called Rope Swing 3 Hello, learned how to make sub to KindaOkayMilk. The secret word is among us, what? All right, whatever, here we go. And, oh, I'm dead, aren't I? Whoa, oh, no, I'm not. Oh, ah, oh, no. All right, well, um, okay, [grunts] Well, I hope I don't need my arms Get ready position. I am not in the get-ready position. I'm dead. Oh, or am I? Ow, oh, man, I did it with no arms too. Anti-cheat, yeah, thanks. Okay, jump, gr-- Jump, grab, swing, flip. Ouch. Perfect, there we go, yes. -Wow. I'm even in the get-ready position. Sweet. All right, grab onto here. Let go right about now I guess. [grunts] Ah. Now we're inside of a little vehicle Do I get to win now or like what happens? Uh, get shucked Did you just try and lay me on my-- What is that? Here's some coffee. That does not look like coffee, This is the kind This is called daycare doom. Press C twice to play as the baby. Oh, oh, so wait, this is, uh, up, back. Well, that-that was Yeet. Oh, I actually get to be the baby. So I don't actually know My arms. Am I supposed Oh, oh, I fell into the little vehicle. It's so happy. There's a rocket on it. Shift to engage the jets? That's amazing. Oh, I actually can't engage the jets All right, let's try this a lot safer. That's a yeet. All right, perfect, and into the car, Oh, yeah, this is incredible. Man, the graphics is really something else. All right, it's the very first time has to drive himself to daycare. And he dodge a couple of rocks and whoa, Control up and down. Okay, am I like making a turn or--? Oh, we just goes straight. Gorefield Daycare. What is with the mega evil cat? All right, Gorefield. I haven't even actually gotten but what is this. Which country flag It's the same flag. Uh, this one. The bird is angry. Why is the-- Where'd the bird go? Okay, apparently, by knowledge Hey, and up and there goes my jet. Oh, the jets are still here. Oh, no, the jets are gone. Oh, I'm just gonna try and get [chuckles] What am I supposed I don't wanna make you angry. [laughs] Oh, I see. I am going to pretend I didn't see that. Oh, bye. I'm not going to get bludgeoned Man this-this academy is amazing. Order of operations. Please excuse my dear Aunt Sussy Baka. [laughs] Sussy Baka. What's 6 - 4, 2, 2, or 2? Wait, is this one of those things I get murdered. Now I'm really concerned. I'm gonna pick the right answer. W-was that baldy? [laughs] I got A-plus. Addicted to math. I'm addicted to living, Oh, what is this? The baby now has to drive through, w-w-whoa, All right, here we go. Oh, yeah. Nice, perfect. Oh, okay, cool. Oh, Buzz Lightyear Wipe that grin off your face, I hate you. Okay, back to the academy. All right, flag, past angry bird, through the pizza slicers. Hey. All right. Angry, uh, Buzz Lightyear over there. Do not open other people's lockers. I'm gonna die if I open. I can't not open other people's lockers. [chuckles] I'm still alive. [laughs] What is this? Oh, subscribe to GrayStillPlays. [laughs] Okay. Man, this-this is I think I've ever had in my life. I gotta-- What is this? What is this? I-- Pfft. [laughs] Oh, it was a-it was Was that-was that angry I just dumped her in the lava. You just got wrecked by a four-month-old. Oh, thanks for playing, we did it. Well, I think this shows the most educational Anyway, folks hope you enjoyed Till next time, stay foxy. Captions: gotranscript.com