Every good nerd knows that E=mc^2. E^2=m2c4+p2c2. But what does that even mean? Oh, an even higher level of nerdom. There may be even will make even the greatest nerds quiver in their Because they could point the way to A top contender for the most profound insight Galileo 400 years ago. He realized that Galilean relativity or Galilean invariance the same "invariant" for all inertial observers. moving. As long as you aren't accelerating--that's at a constant speed and the ball falls just as it would if you were standing on the means that you can define any reference frame as respect to that frame. There's no preferred Now galilean relativity was the basis of which changed all of physics. But Galilean inconsistent with electromagnetism as described realized that he could fix this inconsistency by that laws of physics don't care about velocity. speed of light constitutes a law of physics. By measure the same speed of light led him In Galilean relativity you can change adding the velocity of that reference called the Galilean transformation. But that greater than light. This is fixed in Einsteinian that transformation so that nothing ever exceeds and the factor that we added is the laws of physics don't change under a Lorentz A similar idea about the invariance of the laws versus gravitational fields gave Einstein the revealed a new contradiction. Galilean relativity inspired by Galileo's own insight, and motivated electromagnetism. The latter was in turn succeeded relativity. But now a new conflict arose--general the new quantum mechanics, just as Galilean Efforts to fix this contradiction theory of quantum gravity--string and many more--and we've covered a lot have to be so complicated--at least, maybe by doing the same thing that Einstein and In relativity there are two fundamental gravitational constant "G". With of nature emerged--the Planck constant, h, or various so-called Planck units. These units tell merge--they are the scale at which spacetime quantum mechanics tells us that probing small tells us that the energy curves the fabric of is so great that black holes form. The distance 1.6x10^-35 m, and the energy needed to probe Sounds tricky, but it's not the first time you still remember that Galilean relativity and electromagnetism. And also that Einstein relativity--by taking seriously the idea on velocity. So what if we take it even probably shouldn't change depending on how fast Special relativity tells us that lengths appear is length contraction, and it should apply to at which the fabric of spacetime itself takes on fundamental. So maybe the Planck length shouldn't especially true because it would change only transition between classical and quantum spacetime In quantum gravity theories that have some smooth fabric of space, this could mean all but one reference frame. In general, a a single preferred frame of reference--the one One more reason to wonder if the Planck length by fundamental constants G, C, and h-bar. The Lorentz transformation is a correction to of light invariant for all observers. that could make the Planck length invariant Well it turns out there is a way to do Giovanni Amelino-Camelia back in 2000, or DSR. The modern version of DSR is formulated rather than the Planck length. The Planck probe the Planck length, and is related to Planck energy independent of velocity then Now because we're now talking in equation relating energy to mass and E=mc^2--probably the most famous equation It says that a particle's energy is equal the energy of its motion, expressed here in called the relativistic dispersion because I have to keep calling it the Now remember the Lorentz factor was added that only makes it significant close to the to the dispersion relation that only becomes This is the modified dispersion relation--the terms that include the ratio of particle much lower than the Planck energy--which means close to zero and so we just have the original transformation becomes the Galilean transformation The higher the power n, the closer you need to and the coefficient eta also governs the in the MDR become significant compared relation it would mean that energy and momentum See these conservation laws are a via Noether's theorem--something we covered then energy and momentum conservation also a more fundamental symmetry and more fundamental momentum conservation have been pretty fundamental we use these laws to determine how particle just determine how particles exchange energy and possible. And that gives us a way to potentially Here's an example. A neat trick that the into a pair of massive particles--one of a photon could become an electron and positron. momentum conservation, this "pair production" is Pair production only happens when a photon photon. But if energy and momentum conservation is relation then it becomes possible for a That would be a huge deal. massless bosons like gluons are thought they aren't really stable then that's It would take a very energetic photon--remember, act differently approaching the Planck can still happen the further from the If some form of the modified dispersion relation that a photon of an extremely high but not production given a long enough time. And if then that small probability becomes a large how far a high energy photon should be able We have seen very high energy photons from remnants in the Milky Way Galaxy. Apparently of decay of these photons by pair production Now another reaction forbidden by electron to spontaneously emit a photon without "vacuum cerenkov radiation" shouldn't exist, but But we have not seen any evidence of vacuum Between the absence of pair-production decay and able to constrain the strength of any possible So apparently we need a more senstive test. Another hotly debated prediction from some might actually be different depending on its fixing the Planck length or Planck energy one way to express the speed of light--or energy to momentum--and that's c for light. But these extra bits to it. At very high energies energy-momentum ratio to deviate from c. So if then we have a way to change that speed photons move faster or slower than low energy dispersion relation being considered, but Now scientists have been looking for speed of light for a long time. We've even talked for different arrival times of photons from the gamma-ray bursts are a class of uber-bright photons as well as photons at all other photons all started their journey to us at So in principle we should be able to tell if speeds--they'd arrive at a different The most recent and highest energy is gamma-ray burst 221009A, comes Shower Observatory (LHAASO) in 2022. No low-energy photons was detected within the That allowed us to place pretty tight bounds on And that in turn places limits on the strength relation. The researchers claim to have corrections to the speed of light, they'd than the Planck energy. This effectively where the power--the n in our MDR--equals to be at least on the energy scale of magnitude more energetic than the It's not so surprising that current experiments special relativity or found evidence of the E still equals mc^2. But in this case we haven't of Lorentz symmetry at the Planck scale is still it may be that the alterations needed to the methods or current space explosions. But at least been a real challenge for anything in the realm the first clue to the quantum nature of space No matter how fast you go, physics looks the Hey, Everyone! You know how black holes pull know how the upcoming holiday season often feels welcome you to our first ever Black Hole Friday the entire Merch store catalog will be on sale for such as the first ever Multifunctional Space Time centimeters, and millimeters, a stylus and micro screwdriver. Stand by for the full-tech version. have a new Standard Model LED night light late into the evening, a new Neural Net desktop your simulations, a 520 Piece Puzzle for when our first ever Poster that will remind you of Diagram Black Hole Rocks Glass, for when you need theory. Can we legally say buying Space Time winning physics theory? That's a grey area. But patch, pin we've sold this year during their you could theoretically wear to holiday events prize. And speaking of the non-Americans, if November 29th will be that last date we can 25th. So if you need a gift for any special person to PBSspacetime.com/shop on November 29th