- Make it loud in here for - Keep it going for me! Sir, clap, you piece of shit, come on! Fuck yeah, don't die on me, dude. Almost fell out of his chair. That's not the ideal way to This guy's killing! Literally! Thanks for coming out. San Francisco, how we doing? You guys feeling good? I don't know what it is but you guys, maybe open mind, creative mindset that allows people to just fucking drive, just fucking let the wind You can go left and right at the same time if you believe in yourself, Damien! Apparently it's not illegal to cut across four lanes on the freeway with no blinker and exit Yeah. Applauding that Yeah, no, I'll take out a family of five to get to Bikram yoga on time. I don't give a shit. I got some day sweats to cash in on. Never seen that move? Earlier today, dude just and taken it later in one move. No blinker and fuck everybody and that's what I'm doing today. It's like, hey man, you upwards of 85 miles per hour and make split second decisions like that. Not with lives at stake around you! And plus, what is your GPS doing there? Like, an exit, now! Cokehead tweaker navigation system. Like, back, go back, go back, go back! You're like, argh, fuck, fuck! Who installed this? Goddammit, Toyota! You guys go to the beat of This part of the country So many little things you get to see too, that you don't get to see San Francisco's very privy to new experiences, highlights, memories. I dunno if you've seen saw this on my way in, little piece of poop in the Never seen that before. Half of you are right to not laugh at that but also that's concerning yeah, man, sometimes that happens here. That's keeping it weird, 24/7. That's concerning on many what is that doing there? This is again, why you need to go outside. There's still a lot of questions we've yet to answer as a society, okay? A lot of mysteries we've yet to solve. We think we've got the hot like, dude, global warming, is it real? Is is it happening? Are we affected? I'm like, yo, dude, there who are pooping outta their penises, let's prioritize the issues! Got a future to look after, man. What do you do, by the way as a dude and someone comes in, just pulls 'em down, turns Those? No, no! You can't! No, you're doing it. Good job. I was in Tampa, I got in an Uber, right outta the gate &quot;What's going on, man? You good?&quot; I was like, &quot;Yeah, man, I appreciate the lift.&quot; He's like, &quot;Oh, hell yeah, man, you going to the strip club?&quot; I was like, &quot;No, probably not.&quot; He goes, &quot;Oh, shit, come on!&quot; Alright, yeah, you know what? Fuck it. You convinced me, that's a I didn't actually look That's a good. &quot;Come on&quot; is a great point. He was real fired up about the strip club so I had some follow up I was like, &quot;It seemed like you really loved the strip club, huh?&quot; He's like, &quot;Oh, dude, I fucking.&quot; I was like, &quot;I don't Was that a yes? Is that what He goes, &quot;Dude, I fucking I fucking love the strip club, dog. I love it, man!&quot; I was like, &quot;What do you And he looks at me verbatim I'll tell you, man, come on man. The titties, you know what I'm saying? Come on dude, you know, And of course, the booty.&quot; And I was a little taken aback by his sheer honesty in the But then I was like, Stripper Family Feud, those would probably be He's not wrong, you know? Would've been weird if he was like, &quot;The food, the tunes, Those bitches are friends, it makes the dances better knowing that. I don't mind getting pimped out to local activities in Up here everyone's like, You wanna see where Go to the Ghiradelli Chocolate Factory. Willie Wonka's jealous of this place. And I like that you guys are Some places I don't understand. I was in Phoenix, Arizona. Everyone was like, dude, you Have you been to the Phoenix Zoo? You gotta go, dude, while you're here, man, the Phoenix Zoo. That's what you do when you're here, you go to the zoo, and I It's 140 degrees here all the time! What is that experience You just walk by, they're all like. Help! Feel like a homeless guy you're like, I'm sorry, I They're like, I don't want money, I want Gatorade, motherfucker, I'm melting in my own shit! You're talking to the Fuck yeah. Look at that hat, dude. Nice, did you win that That is a cool-ass hat. And I'm obviously deflecting, Any time a dude, and you've got the vest to accompany the hat? Are you always this, is or is it the Saturday special? Is that what we're getting? - Seven days a week. - Seven days a week? Fuck yeah. You go vest and hat seven days a week? What do you do for work? I don't know why I didn't ask - Finance dreams and fix nightmares. - You finance dreams I'll take things robots Alien! Oh, or some weird spiritual Dude. How many times have Because that seemed, that Is that your pickup &quot;So what do you do?&quot; I finance dreams and I fix nightmares.&quot; &quot;Um, I think my friend needs me. Yeah, I'm gonna go to the bathroom.&quot; &quot;I didn't see you come here with anyone.&quot; &quot;No, I did. I did. I did. You're wrong, I did. She's been in the But it was one of those pees She's gonna be there a while.&quot; &quot;But wait, I wanna finance your dreams.&quot; &quot;Yeah, that's gonna be a no for me.&quot; &quot;Let me fix your nightmares at least.&quot; &quot;No, because I'm having it right now. And I feel like me going to the bathroom is a way to get rid of it. Please, please don't follow me in there.&quot; Try to meet gals, that's always tricky. Guys get in their own heads, right? I'd say 89% of fellas really wanna put the best foot forward, We just get jammed up, you know? You girls are sweet and pretty and funny, we get in our own heads, make it tougher than it has to be. There is, however, another 11% out there that is fucking it up for the rest of us. And you know who you Quit saying weird pervy-ass shit at the end of the night, okay? Making the rest of us look bad. Throwing Hail Marys on first down, dude, run a couple plays. &quot;So, the bar's closing, I don't know what you're getting into, you can always come back to my place and smoke a joint and take a bubble bath.&quot; What the fuck are you talking Do you realize how at three in the morning? &quot;I just want her to get clean!&quot; That's even weirder, dude. She's an adult. It's tough to be comfortable That's what we're all striving for, is just to be able to and be out there and not make shit weird right out of the gate, you know? To go to a party that you you know, not knowing too trying to familiarize yourself Get into a hot tub, maybe, you're wearing jeans, right? Everyone's looking at you like, You say shit like &quot;Carpe diem.&quot; Everyone's like, what does that mean? Not really the time for that. You get in with wet pants and you're sitting around we're all friends, and everyone's like, nope, nobody knows you, man. You just got in with jeans, you know? Conversations being discussed, but you wanna chime in 'cause you felt that silence lingering for too long so you just go, &quot;Anybody Next thing you know, you're getting kicked out You wanna avoid being that guy, you know? So, a lot of ways to You know a lot of people get tattoos to feel like their best selves. I'm always envious of you ladies, your choices are so spot on. Thinking about getting one 'cause I know that it's you do in your 30s, right? Just get a, this is, now, this is, people know that I'm 'cause I've just. I don't know what I'd get, I feel like I'd get I would want that, I know I'd be drunk too for the experience to avoid the pain. Just maybe just walk in all hammered like, &quot;Just put the Baskin Robbins logo on my asshole, man, I don't know, fucking. It's a conversation starter, right? Yes, all the flavors. You girls are so good with those choices. Girls have so much symbolism I'm so envious, you guys just, you know, all of these have so much symbolism and backstory and they're very special, they mean something very special to me, I'll tell you what they mean if you really get to know me. Okay, I'll tell you what they mean! You were super patient. I actually have a tattoo spooning inside of a flower and there's a bunch of And it means live your and whatever that means And don't let anyone tell you And because if you can see it, you can dream it, you can be it and if it's not something you could do, then just and just fly up into the and just, hello, dreams! And grab them and take and just make sure that just, You know, and just all that's You got all that backstory Always that moment too, right? We've all had that moment you think that boozing is gonna be a piece of history for you, right? Have that one crazy night, you wake up and you're just like, oh, And you take a shower and brush your teeth and you're like, and I'm back in the game! Guys are a little more than you gals, we don't We have no restraint, we power through despite whatever debaucherous you know what I'm saying? Just like, oh really, I hit one dude at the Wendy's drive One dude and now I'm just supposed to stop drinking Pinot Grigio? It's like, yeah, that's You're not a wine guy, is what that means. And you mixed it with ecstasy, dumb dumb, so you're 0 for 2 tonight. Gotta read the room. Girls are way better, they just acknowledgement of just, I know what my body can handle, you know? So I can't drink everything, anymore, that was the old me, that You know, it's a new year, it's a new me, I put that on Facebook, I don't know why you didn't I'm still gonna do it, There's just some things I can't drink. I want to though, like I wish, I wish I could. I just don't trust myself I don't like who I am, You can ask Shavon, Don't say anything, bitch, but she remembers when I, fucking slut. It's just every drink has that's why it's tough to gauge how I'm gonna respond in public, like tequila makes me horny, it does! I'm serious, one shot, I'm hey, hey, I'll suck it anywhere. Yeah. Jaeger makes me violent, you know? So you put 'em together and just lay out! I'll fucking kill you in your sleep and suck your dick and cut it off. I'll have a water, thank you so much. Conversations are way better though. Girls get deep on a level We're just so agro. That's why we bro out and Dudes got a solid amount of But on the flip side, man, we're ready to meet that testosterone with some kindhearted feelings, right? Every dude is looking and a friend in the same fucking moment so it's just, we're like, dude, I will fucking hit my dick on your face but also you can fucking You know, we just, if you I'm there for you, dude. That's why when you see the shoulder bump, like, You good? Yeah, dude, real Not much, man, just Yeah, well, you hit my shoulder, dude. Oh, sorry dude, fucking free country, can walk where I want, I got two shoulders, I'm looking to fucking swivel 'em around town. Okay dude, well it hurt, man, Oh shit, from what? Softball man, I play professionally. Oh shit, in a co-ed league or is it just for fun or? No, you know, I was oh shit, no, that's dope, dude. Yeah, no, I wanted to go I was too short! Just, fucking steal as much as I could. I just, that's fucking, do you I got tickets tonight if you wanted to go. I would love that. You girls get deeper though, right? Oh my God, let's just talk about. You're much more cognizant You know, Beth doesn't know everybody yet, she's new here so we Let's get outta our comfort zones, go on an excursion, an expedition. Hey, just go wine tasting. Just, you know, she's had a rough month, like her ex-boyfriend didn't wish her happy Her cat has like AIDS or HPV I dunno, let's just get Just make sure she feels like one of us. Get to know her passions Girls love talking about fears. What's your, what are you scared? You're never gonna hear What are you afraid of, dog? Come on, dude, talk to me, Whereas you girls just get deep I'm envious of that extra layer of commitment to the conversation, right? Just, oh god, Stacy, I'm so jealous. She has no fears. She's so brave. She has literally no fears. She has no ears either, but that's, that's actually probably her fear is growing ears back, you know? And having them burned But by the way, don't let Don't be like, hello, can you hear me? Let her say, I don't have any ears! Let her bring it up, it's. Right, you guys tensed up a little bit more than I Is somebody here tonight without ears that decided to roll the dice and just watch me do comedy? Last time I was up here, I went wine tasting for a bachelor party. Yep, that was my response too when it was brought to the table. My buddy was like, &quot;Dude, I was like, &quot;Fucking, why?&quot; What happened to Vegas? We're dudes. It was an enjoyable experience, my one qualm about that scenario is the people who pour I get that you love wine, you're eating, drinking, sleeping wine 24/7, but hey, man, don't inundate us with Don't shower us with all these facts, you know what I'm saying? We're day drinking, you know? It's 10:00 a.m. and I am fucked up, Bruce. I don't really care where the grape's birth canal is located. I showed up to your winery already drunk. What does that tell you I'm trying to do on a Sunday morning? But you think that, you can't and it's fun to pretend, with their spiel 'cause and it's fun to yes and and spin it into your own bullshit 'cause then you walk out being like, &quot;I actually know a lot than I thought I did!&quot; And they get so into when they're just like, &quot;If you guys really listen to your palate, you can actually hear the And I'm just like, &quot;Yeah, so much Bruce, but I can smell it, it's got a little Cinnamon Toast Crunch, a little Fraggle Rock, is that the, , is that Is that a fucking nutsack in there? The balls are ripe this year.&quot; Vegas is where it's at for I can only handle Vegas for Not willing to throw my And you need to be if for an extended period of time. A few games that I enjoy, Roulette is the one I will never touch and people always get you gotta play roulette, Adam, dude, that's the You never know what's gonna happen when you play roulette, man. You never know what's gonna happen when you play roulette, man, you know, man, you never know what! Do you know what's gonna happen? You don't, no you don't, you don't know.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Bullshit, I know Here's anybody playing Black. Fuck! That's pretty much every time, you're a failure in two seconds. Congratulations, Carl, go tell your wife you can't pick colors That's an attractive quality in a man. Craps is fun, craps you can with a collective group of strangers and have that outta nowhere and we can all use a little with what's going on, just and just look each other in the eye and be like, dude, we're we're winning, we all want money, that's what we're here for. And the superstition level 'cause if you're saying and you're winning, A lot of people go with come on, you know, grandma But you can literally, you know, I don't know why grandma but she does. Fucking, get 'em for her She's about to die, fucking you know what I'm saying? But sometimes people go with, come on, you know, anything you want. And people, if you're winning again, you know, come on, come on. Santa needs a handjob and an Uber! You know what I'm saying? Like, whatever. Somebody jerked off Santa! You know. This guy's hard! Sometimes people get with their info at craps. A little too honest, you know? A little too all the eggs in one basket. Just, you know, come Daddy needs a new minivan You're like, holy shit, alright, well that's definitely not the time to reveal that info, Dan. I love the fights in Vegas. The drunk public couple fights. If you're a couple and you get shit-faced and you start fighting, stay outside. It's free entertainment. Don't No, stay outside for that is the best programming, Vegas truly is the best the ambiance, the lights, up past hours you're not accustomed to, couples can't handle Vegas. A lot of 'em when they go and Vegas rewards you too. They recognize if you stay up late enough, they're just like, oh shit, it's 4:00 a.m. and you're still awake? Alright, here's Jeff and Diane from Iowa, they're hammered, enjoy They haven't been here before, it's about to get weird. Last time I was there, my buddy and I sat in the lobby of the for a good 45 minutes just He's drunk, she's drunk, but they somehow understood that was being exchanged, you know? She's just like, you just, Dojo. This motherfucker! And then you just. Dojo? And the dude looks at her, and goes, &quot;Oh! Is that, is that, oh! &quot; I'm not even paraphrasing, that's what they were It's their own secret language. And at the height of the the dude does a cartwheel Just a grown adult male cartwheel, shit escalated, this and at the end of the cartwheel with a lot of purpose and aggression, looks right at her and goes, &quot;Boom!&quot; Yo, boom? Why you so defensive, bro? Has she been questioning No doubt that is a fight that's You know, started at the pool now they're in the cab she won't let it go, just, &quot;You were just such a at the pool today, Max, every 15 minutes, like, ooh, look, look at me! I can whip and nae nae!&quot; &quot;Yeah, well I was trying to I was trying to make your friends laugh. I thought that was funny.&quot; &quot;Yeah, well it fucking wasn't! I know comedy, motherfucker, okay? And you know what? I didn't wanna say This is my first time and now she thinks you're fucking psycho. So now I have to deal with that on Monday, thank you for that, you But I didn't wanna say it, but it's Vegas, you say what you feel, and I'm gonna tell you I don't even think you could &quot;What the fuck did you say to me?&quot; Gets outta the cab, Is that really what you, is that really?&quot; Into the club, &quot;Is that, oh, oh! &quot; Cartwheel. &quot;Boom!&quot; Dude, 45 minutes, we did not get up. My buddy was going to get a drink, he was like, &quot;Will you save my seat?&quot; I was like, &quot;I'll save your seat, I'll change our flights, motherfucker, we're not gonna miss the I wanna see this divorce live! I've invested too much emotionally.&quot; I might have to adopt a kid. Don't get violent when you fight, couples make that Prime example, Florida, chick stabbed her boyfriend in the stomach during the argument because the dude farted on her head. You should be laughing way harder. That is the funniest shit Google &quot;Fart Stabbed Florida&quot; tonight if you don't believe me, six pages of entertaining That is a power move by that dude. Yo, let's be clear about you get farted on during You lose that fight! That's a TKO in the first round, baby! God didn't put us on this Earth with the proper wherewithal to know how to recover That's new age shit, that's why she panicked and got violent. She'd never seen that right there, yeah, yeah, yeah! This dude's been farting on You don't improvise He just finally met somebody She was raised a little differently. At some point in her &quot;Baby, if you get farted on, you fucking attack!&quot; You know? And she took that advice to heart, this guy thought he and get off Scott-free, The dishes and the trash? I'll fucking see you in the morning!&quot; And she was like, &quot;You'll never Talk it out. Save your farts. My mom's starting to Goddammit, almost 70 years I'm not gonna call her out either. It's good son 1-0-1, she made least I can do, hold my Is that a new plant? You know. There's no clue, she'd just Just. &quot;Did you say something, sweetheart?&quot; &quot;No, mom, but I think your asshole wanted to chime in on this conversation. You couldn't feel anything with The neighbors moved, Mom.&quot; &quot;I didn't like 'em anyway.&quot; - That one died. - What's that? - That one died. - That one died? - Yeah. Now, what about that moment felt like you needed to say that? - 'Cause I'm a mom that's to be your mom. - What's that? - I'm a mom that's old - Great, I used to play the clarinet. Welcome back to Who Gives a Shit. Yeah. - What about your boots? - Look, I appreciate the that's always, look, wants that energy between You know, that recognition that they're paying attention, you know? And I gotta be honest, the way that the laughter at the end of the joke, I couldn't, I didn't, for me, I was like, I was like, that's my fucking, I should've closed with that. And then here you come, Waiting for your moment. Dead silent. &quot;That died.&quot; And I heard that, and I heard it here too, right in my comedy heart, and I was like, God, that did die! Why was I so in denial? And then it turns out that And you're like, I have a you're a mom, yeah, you said something. I remember being real angry at that moment so it's a little muddy for There's a handful of things tonight that would've made me as I'll try to be on my It's Saturday, I'm sitting Considered VIP. They said like, this Adam's And I think what's cool is that you heard he's doing an album and you were like, &quot;Oh hell yeah. Another opportunity to And thank God I just met So I'm actually not offended. My mom's on Facebook Any other chronic mommenters out there? - Woo! what you're doing. Making the world a better place. My mom comments on just about everything that pops up on Facebook. 'Cause she would love to everybody live in so she does it via the internet with likes and comments and shares, but she's commenting on shit that doesn't need additional commentary. Usually pictures of food 'cause that's what her are chronically posting what to use Facebook for either, you know? So they're just like, forgot what pictures of Noodle salad Monday through Friday from Barb and Kathy Schievitz and my mom comments on every photo! She's consistent, I'll give her that, a picture will just pop Yeah, okay, you can probably you don't have to put that Internalize that emotion. Sometimes she just says It's not a fucking game show, mom, you don't have to guess the food picture. People know what that is. And somebody likes her comments, she comments below the you like lasagna, Debbie, I'm sitting there high &quot;Let me know when you make it, I'll fly up, I'm fucked up! I'm at the airport awaiting We have stupid fights, my mom and I. Got into a fight about whether it's pronounced Fanta or Fahnta. Yeah. On the phone, she was like, my friend Diane?&quot; &quot;Nope.&quot; &quot;Well, her daughter had a &quot;Oh, shit. Hey mom, remember when I said I don't remember who Diane is?&quot; I thought that kinda squashed that. &quot;What's the weather like in LA?&quot; &quot;Oh, you know, 75, 80, every day, hot as balls, you know that.&quot; &quot;Ah, that's great. You gonna wear shorts?&quot; &quot;I don't really feel like &quot;You must send me a picture if you do.&quot; &quot;Nope. Definitely not.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Mom, I haven't And she goes, &quot;It's Fanta.&quot; I was like, &quot;What'd you say, bitch?&quot; &quot;It's Fanta.&quot; I go, &quot;No mom, it's Fahnta.&quot; The jingle in the commercial goes, &quot;Don't you want a, want a Fahnta?&quot; She goes, &quot;No, no, it's Fanta. Don't you want a, want a Fanta? An adorable rendition for I was firm in my beverage I'm like, &quot;Mom, it's fucking Fahnta, I'm right, you're wrong, I'm sorry, that's just the matter of And she's like, &quot;Okay, you know what? Yeah, yeah, I guess, I I guess you're right and I'm wrong. What do I know? What do I know? You know everything and I don't know shit, yeah, here I am wrong again.&quot; And then she said something in the history of our relationship, just squash any debate. She goes, &quot;Yeah, yeah, what You just came outta me!&quot; I mean, that is the ultimate mic drop for any discrepancy. Like, you just came outta me? If she were a &quot;Mortal Kombat&quot; character, that would be her finishing Just, childbirth, like you Only works if you're a mom, obviously. Not as effective if you're a dad. Oh really, I don't know Yeah, no, what do I know, and then went into your mom and then came outta your mom, I think, I don't know, maybe the butt, I don't know how it works. You might be a butt baby. Google it. I have to use Facebook Facebook is big for the but it's also great for that's what we all use it for. So many people I've found and I went to elementary school with a girl named Audrey Klitgard and I forgot about that shit. Yeah. K-L-I-T-G-A-R-D, what I was just like, haha! And I got to have that again, you know? Got to go take a trip down Klitgard lane for a minute, you know? And remember a better time and Audrey Klitgard. How does that happen, by the way? Were the options limited Alright, sir, you can either have Dicksponge, Asstickler, or Klitgard. Oh, fucking, Klitgard's probably gonna get the least amount of teasing. Found out one of my friends That was a new one. Usually Facebook is a place this is all the great just look at how great things are. But now it's like, and And I want everyone to I love taking ownership and turning them into And she did, it was a picture of her and about 15 of her with balloons spelling out the words &quot;Divorced As Fuck&quot; right? All flicking off the camera in unison just like, &quot;Fuck you, Steve!&quot; Right? And a lot of hashtags to Just, #NextChapter, #DoingItMyWayThisTime, #EmilysSummerOfFun, #GonnaFindMeANewMan, #SomeoneHelpMeFindMeANewMan. #Please. I knew, knew it wasn't gonna work out. Sometimes you meet a couple Not gonna work. Thanks for playing. You know, they were just Opposites, and people always well dude, you know, opposites attract. I'm like, yeah. And sometimes opposites And they weren't meant to be. And it takes a minute to figure that out. This dude was so roided out, and not that roided out fellas can't find love and happiness, he just had too much juice You couldn't have a normal convo with him. You'd be like, &quot;Dude, Troy, And he was like, &quot;Yeah!&quot; I'm like, did you just put a curse on my fucking family, dude, what was that? Am I gonna sleep tonight? Why can't you talk normally in public?&quot; Everyone commented below What happened? Why? What? What happened? No, why? What? Why? I'm like, why? I'm gonna go out on a limb and say she asked him to and he tried to throw you know what I'm saying? That's a deal breaker I like to smoke blunts, joints, right? Makes me feel like Snoop Dogg. Can't do edibles anymore. Swore those off. Last time I had an edible, went to Disneyland and to break character so to a first aid station because I was having a panic attack. Yeah, true story. Hey, public freak out in I can only imagine what it First time at Disneyland, just seeing a grown man flexing like, &quot;You gotta help me man, my heart's gonna pop Just losing my mind. Really, I was terrified on on many levels and then I started getting flooded with all these flashbacks. 'Cause then I remembered, oh, shit, my folks took my sister when we were six for a save And yeah, spoiler alert, didn't work. But I remembered getting and getting the sweet help who I'm now facing down So I'm just like, &quot;Dude, Pooh, and now you're gonna bail on me when I'm having a fucking heart attack?!&quot; And this motherfucker in the suit, which I know was not a real guy 'cause I played Wolverine so I'm like, you know, which shouldn't be the only reason you know that somebody's not the I used to play a character too, I know you're probably Kevin from Detroit in there, you know? But I was like, &quot;Dude, I need some fucking help.&quot; And this guy would not break He looked right at me and was like, &quot;Woo! I don't know who to tell you, ask Christopher Robin, you know?&quot; So now I'm freaking out. And people have seen me freak out. So then you get extra Pooh walks away and then by yourself like, yeah, People are like, &quot;You cool?&quot; You're like, &quot;Yeah, are you cool?&quot; Then I had break away and get indoors. So I went to Splash Mountain. Not before I was reunited, yeah, not before I was reunited with my buddy who I'd went to the park with. We'd gotten separated, right? So I was lost for a second With just Pooh to come to my rescue. He fucking failed on that mission. Then I see my buddy, it was like, remember at the end of Titanic they're like, &quot;I thought you drowned!&quot; That's how it was when I saw him. I was like, &quot;I thought you were dead!&quot; He's like, &quot;Where the fuck were you?&quot; I was like, &quot;I fucking got a pizza and then I found Pooh in front of a kid, it's a long story!&quot; You know. Then we got on Splash Mountain and we started to chill because there's some tranquil moments and you sit around, you just get in a log, you just kind of coast Zip-a-dee-doo-dah, zip-a-dee-ay We start singing along, we're like, We're fucking baked thank You know. And then the panic started to resettle in when all these robotic animals started popping outta nowhere. Every 12 to 16 seconds. Hey Is my one piece of feedback, just all these animals just Meh meh meh meh, maybe I'm real Right, just staring at you. Staring at you way too I knew we were too baked 'cause at the top of and he looks right at my buddy and I and he goes, meh, meh! Hoo! And my buddy starts nudging me, he's like, &quot;Dude, Adam, that owl we gotta get outta here! This place is haunted, That was cool, I'll give you that. 'Cause man, I've had I still fuck with NyQuil. I don't know why. Probably 'cause the slogan commercial, they make it seem so carefree, you know? The nighttime sniffling, sneezing, coughing, stuffy head fever You're like, oh, that sounds And NyQuil's like, &quot;Yeah, after you hallucinate for 45 minutes. Get ready to see your dead Grandpa on a seesaw in France.&quot; NyQuil! Hawaii's the best place to smoke pot, man. Hawaii exudes the vibes of pot just 24/7. Look at any beach bar, blasting out the tunes of Jack Johnson. I dunno if Jack Johnson is the state bird in fucking Hawaii, but So, every beach bar, just, you know? And you're not paying that JJ is stringing together. And you should because he is brilliant at just wrapping together these lyrics that have no business But you know, you're tapping your toe to all of his melodies. So you never give an ounce a doubt to what he's singing about. He's just like, I got the beach pancakes at my feet I watch the waves all day Alright, well, that is catchy, but that's a tsunami that So maybe a little more Children are drowning in front of you while you're harmonizing to yourself. I do like to watch TV Obviously, that's the best time to do it. I'm partial to &quot;Chopped Junior&quot;. If you like child abuse and food, that is the show for you. Goddamn, the verbal critique that these adults have the audacity to throw at these children! 11, 12, they can't even tie yet they're taking in all this fucking, just absorbing all this fucking You know, and they don't know, they don't know how to It's like, &quot;I tried really hard and I think, you know, I My mom said she liked it.&quot; As the judge is like, &quot;Yeah, well Caleb, I found your lemon bolognese to be weak, like your kickball skills and.&quot; &quot;Yeah, that's fair, that's fair. I always get picked last. You're right.&quot; &quot;Stephanie, your tuna tartar &quot;Yeah. I mean, I'm 10, so I'll You're right.&quot; Everyone smokes pot, just found out he smokes Tried to help curb the doesn't have to become an issue, you know? I smoke a little.&quot; His eyes lit up, never seen a kid more excited my entire life. &quot;Adam, you smoke pot? Dude! How have we not smoked together yet?&quot; &quot;What are you talking about? Five years ago you were 10. What the fuck are you talking about, man?&quot; What do you mean, how have we not, you just started using deodorant, man, you gotta build up to that! Plus I have a rule, I can't smoke weed with anybody who didn't grow That's just a rule I have. There's a generation gap, DuckTales Woowoo They're the potheads, I knew you were in here. You had no clue that was coming and you dropped everything in that moment. Just to fucking woowoo! Woo! Yeah, I loved that show, dude. Gimme a heads up next time. You could see someone stabbing someone outside a Whole Foods parking lot, like, &quot;Yeah, chicken apple sausages Just walk by, DuckTales &quot;Yeah, woowoo! Yeah, back to stabbing. I'll stop for the woowoo.&quot; I'm an impulse buyer though, you know? I see the slogan just like, this'll help. And I'm like, I want it! You know? I bought a MyPillow, just I got turned on from the whole commercial. If you don't know the fascinating, Mike Lindell, Used to sleep under freeways, cleaned himself up, made the MyPillow, boom, billionaire, inspiring story. Tugs at the heartstrings. Makes you wanna be a And again, the commercial does its job, over hypes the product, makes you feel like without it, just some guy No pillow just trying to just, fucking, you know, getting those restful Zs? He's like, &quot;It's just not that soft!&quot; Like yeah, it's a curb, dumb dumb. Go inside, you know? What And then they cut to Lindell, he's like, &quot;That's why you need a fucking MyPillow!&quot; You know, and he's just He's still dealing with &quot;Get your fucking pillow!&quot; Right? And I did, you know? And it's the worst fucking Obviously. I should've Who takes relaxation tips This guy used to think the alphabet started with. That's not a guy you listen Got to play in the NBA a couple weeks ago. - Yeah. - What, that is the right response. &quot;Huh?&quot; You sound like most of Twitter. I got blown up by so many Who the fuck is Adam Ray? Good to hear from you, Migos. Thanks for the shout out, Toni Braxton. Toni Braxton. Clearly I You know, rap legend Toni Braxton. I wanna be in the NBA, sir, - Advertising. - Advertising? Hell yeah. Was that the dream as a kid? - Yes. - Oh, nice! Moving on. What kind of advertising do you do? - Food. - Oh, nice. Oh dude, that's gotta, - I don't write it, I sell them. - You sell the jingles. So people come to you and Gimme a break, gimme a break Break me off a bit of that KitKat bar And you're like, &quot;Fuck no!&quot; Or, &quot;I love it. Can we get How about gimme a break break, right? Do you ever give advice or to the given jingle? - I just sell what they give me. - Fuck yeah. Any famous - Hamburger Helper. - Fuck yeah. So I'll ask the question again, any famous jingles we've heard of? Hamburger Helper. What is it, 1992? Is that the year that Helper What is is the Hamburger Helper slogan? Refresh our memories. - When you need a helping hand. - When you need a helping hand. Walked right into that shit. Why are they always so sexual? Or maybe I'm just a dude and my brain just goes to sex. Helping hand, oh, like a like a hand to fucking touch your wiener? Like a wiener hand? I remember Corn Nuts had a real, Corn Nuts was like, wasn't it like Bust a nut, bust a nut Come on everybody and bust a nut I know I'm not too far off. I will Google that. Yeah, certain slogans. I mean, look at the lottery. You know, that slogan, what it could be you. Dumb dumbs hear that on and they're like, I never Even when the odds are one in 7 billion, people are like, dude, One in 7 billion. Those are insane odds. You've got a better chance of Oprah pulling up to your house and being like, and you're like, &quot;Oh my God, And she's like, &quot;No, no, Oh. I guess, yeah, come in, I guess, wow. This is not how it usually Yeah, no, just don't use Oh shit, Oprah, it's broken! She's in there. Corn Nuts jingle, here Go to your room and lock the door 'Cause when you try it once Try it some more, size doesn't matter And that's a fact, it might Bust a nut - Oh! Corn Nuts. They better sponsor this fucking album. Go to your room and lock the door? I don't remember that part! Don't tell your mom, hide the porn Ask your stepdad for some cash Don't let your sister see that video Of you letting the dog lick your butt Bust a nut Good God. What? I would be so starstruck if you were like, &quot;That's actually my song. 15 hours in the studio Yeah, I wanted to be in and my mom actually She's like, &quot;Adam the NBA, but sweetheart, but there are no Jews in the NBA. Good luck with that, you dumb dumb, happy birthday, go to bed.&quot; Just a power slam of honesty at nine. I hadn't even hit double digits, already putting the kibosh on the fantasy, which seemed fucked up from my perspective and then I grew up and become an adult and I'm like, well, she was right, there are no Jews in the NBA, bummer, but the harsh reality of the situation. You've never turned on any NBA game and seen Kevin Durant leafing No sweaty yarmulkes are No commentator during any &quot;Rosenbaum for three! What a shot, Weinstein at you know how he loves those. Really take his time with this shot. Doesn't have to pay for it.&quot; I was good too, man, I probably peaked in the sixth grade. I had an excellent coord vision. A sweet jumper. I was a little fatty though, But I was quick fat, you know? Quick fat is a term that I came up with that basically explains there comes along a fat defies the laws of gravity. I was just as swift as I just smelled like when I sweat, you know? My coach was like, &quot;You're of all time!&quot; He called me Krispy Kreme Abdul Jabbar, that's not a healthy nickname. Here's a problem. NBA is my favorite sport though, man, they got so much extra They recognize you need more than just a game in front of you Kiss cam, that's one of the greatest forms of free entertainment this Are you kidding me? There's something for everybody. They span the gamut, every they'll start off slow with and as soon as they put everyone just applauds like, &quot;Holy shit, how did you get outside?&quot; You know. Right and then the old gal's And he's like, &quot;Who are you?&quot; Then they'll cut to a couple, you know, prepubescent, seventh, eighth grade and this little too cool isn't ready to show publicly the amount of affection he's got for the girl he brought, right? So he's just like, urgh, urgh. Yeah, real inappropriate. Then they'll cut away to a couple that has no business kissing whatsoever, and that's my favorite. Usually a brother sister combination. And they can't defend themselves 'cause they're muted on the Jumbotron so they're just like, &quot;Oh We can't do this!&quot; And the whole stadium's We paid for this incest, act I'd like to sing the national anthem at an NBA game, that's on And once Fergie did it, I was like, I think I could fucking do it. That is pretty much how I would do it, you know what I'm saying? Just make a bold choice, just. People gotta stop putting spins on things that don't need adjusting, you know what I'm saying? Nobody was out there like, you know what we could use from Fergie? A new national anthem. That version would've been acceptable if they were like, please welcome to sing the national Then I would've been like, yeah. I knew this guy was working That's why we haven't seen She was two verses away from being like, and eating a can of to sort of put spinach back on the map. You gotta get somebody reliable, man. Some true rockstar, Lionel that's my karaoke go-to. That guy did no wrong. Look at any video of He pushed the envelope that people built around him. And if you were that cool, man, you could really do no wrong, your behavior was not questioned. Look at any video, look at the video for &quot;Hello&quot; tonight on YouTube, just, Hello is it me you're looking for You know what he's doing in Chasing a blind woman around. What the fuck? That is the epitome of She's blind, she doesn't know And Lionel's just like, Is it me you're looking for It's like, yo dude, probably not! Hate to burst your bubble, she just paid for soup with a napkin, you think love is at the top of her list? She's looking for a door handle cut her some slack! Concerts too, man, the Bonnaroo is one of those experiences as a comedian you get to do and it's a giant music comedy festival. Got to see Pearl Jam for the first time. If you haven't seen Pearl Jam live, put that on the bucket list, holy shit. PJ rips it up, you know? And you know that they're a great band 'cause they've been featured and that show only highlights that are worthy of having that are attached to the everyone's done it, holy shit, man, REM, Pearl Jam, obviously. Taylor Swift did an episode, was the last one, the youngest, right? When she was 22, it's like, she's 22, she hasn't lived a full worth connecting over but God bless her, she's up there powering through like, &quot;This next song is about, okay, so you guys know that guy you Right, we're all thinking like Devin or Revin or And he didn't know you had a crush on him and your friend Kelly told and you were like, Kelly, That was private information, bitch. And so you go to school the next day and you see him in the hallway and he gives you a weird look like, ugh. And you're like, what the fuck was that? I don't, what was that look?&quot; And I'm like, &quot;I don't where's this story fucking going? This is just, there's no 25 years ago, Eddie Vedder and Pearl Jam, much more engaging tales. He's up there like, this next song, well we were doing a show in Wisconsin and after the show we went to an IHOP where we found ecstasy We took 'em obviously, we and wandered into a forest where we met a magical elf who'd been separated from his family. We helped him how to rebuild and he taught us how to Then we heard a van driving by from a nearby town screaming oh my god, thank you so Turns out that elf we it was actually a fucking Anyway, we didn't know, his name was Jeremy, two three four.&quot; Way better story. Just gotta read the room, you know? A lot of us fail to read the room, not know what to say, or you don't say what you or we don't act the way you should. Look, Matt Lauer thought he could give out dildos for Christmas last year. And that is a prime example of not reading the room, you know? I get you wanna be the you've been there 30 plus years, you know? You're just like, &quot;Hey, for the holidays.&quot; Yeah, there's a reason for that, dude, now you're on the front page. So that plan clearly backfired, you know? And look, give out dildos, I got no problem with Just leave him outside of Just be like, &quot;Hey, who's the cool guy giving out dildos this year? I hope we figure it out, seems like a fun guy to be around.&quot; You just gotta be inconspicuous with your dildo dropoff, you know? Secret Santa that shit. He added notes, that's what made it weird, got too specific, he was I hope it fits, Matt!&quot; It's like, dude, you can't write that. I don't know why you put I hope it fits. &quot;Yeah, just let me know. Let me know. Or don't, you know, I'll just check in.&quot; My nieces fail to read the They shouldn't have to That's one of the benefits and being a twin as they are, you just get to say whatever you want and not be cognizant that when you say shit to adults, you know? They're just like, I'm just gonna think it and then I'm gonna fucking say it and I don't really care how it affects you because I'm nine and there's other than say shit or hurtful to your heart, That's a cool place to be at nine, just fucking, here it is And they do that all the time, it was dead silent in the car, driving them to swimming practice and one of 'em just goes, &quot;Uncle Adam?&quot; I go, &quot;Yeah, what's going down?&quot; She goes, &quot;I'm sorry you I was like, &quot;Aw! Mind your fucking business.&quot; What the hell? I thought I don't tell you how to color, I saw you make a tree purple You think that's gonna Any other uncles out there to make these kids feel like &quot;You guys want three &quot;Yeah, you're the Bye. Gotta go to bed. They take advantage of that Jesus Christ, and manipulate, Got little catchphrases that &quot;I thought you were cool.&quot; Oh man, that hurts so bad because all you wanna and now they're telling maybe you're not, you know? Starts off slow. &quot;Can we &quot;No, your mom said you can't.&quot; &quot;I thought you were cool.&quot; I'm just like, fuck that shit, I am! Who told you that? Where are you getting your facts from? It's only gonna get &quot;Uncle Adam, will you buy us beer?&quot; &quot;No.&quot; &quot;I thought you were cool.&quot; Alright, you know what? Fuck the beer, let's do shots, alright? Who's partying tonight? Get this Four Loko, Let's hit that monkey bar, alright? You're driving, by the way. I don't care if you're nine. Figure it out. You wanted this. They're cool, I'll do Because they, again, they respect me and that can be good cop, bad cop. They love what I do, that stand up is a job more or less. And they pitch me jokes, It's just so cute, and they're One of 'em is a little more, bouncing off the walls, she's And she was like, &quot;Uncle What did the poop say to the fart?&quot; I'm just like, &quot;I don't know.&quot; She's like, &quot;Gross!&quot; I'm like, yeah, hilarious, not bringing it to San Fran, but I get why that's funny. The other one's a little more cerebral. A little more image driven. &quot;Uncle Adam, what's a &quot;I don't know.&quot; &quot;The salsa!&quot; Yeah, fucking jackpot. Probably closing with that. And then the other one felt outdone so she's like, &quot;I got another joke!&quot; I was like, &quot;Ooh, alright, yeah. Let's go back and forth. What do you got?&quot; &quot;Okay, what did the boyfriend &quot;Ooh, I don't know, what?&quot; &quot;Nothing because the when they're at dinner, like a picture of her ex on Instagram. And he was like, what was that? And she was like, I And he's like, I just saw and I didn't know you And she was like, yeah, I told you, we reconnected 'cause he got sick and so I'm trying to because he just got done with and I thought that was a was to reach out and be like, I hope everything's going well. It doesn't mean anything. Get it?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Oh. That was topical.&quot; They're cool, I'll do Anything, so much unconditional love. Their friends, not so much. Pretty much hate all their friends. They got just several, 7, 8, 9-year-old, just spazzy bastards Kids that just pop outta bushes, you know? I've definitely established All the other parents are on the outskirts just on their phones, These kids take advantage, Fuck! Ha ha ha, made you look! Yeah, you did Nathan, I wasn't expecting a headbutt in the middle of the day. Fuck off. Nathan, Caleb, Gary. They got a friend named Gary who's eight. You know, if you're Gary and you're eight, you better figure that Why do you not work in a You're still in grade Always smells like soup for some reason. Look, you're eight, dude, you got one job. Do a chowder check before Why do you always smell like you've just been dipped in something? He's like, &quot;I like broccoli chowder!&quot; Yeah dude, it's fucking Always taunts me with his bullshit skills. &quot;Hey Adam, I bet could skip, I bet, I bet I could skip rocks better than you!&quot; I bet you can, Gary, you You got plenty of time to hone Even his haircut sucks, to me that you are a piece Even the barber got a and was like, fuck this kid, he sucks and I want his head to reflect that. I hate this kid. I wanna throw Got a midget best friend, that's pretty close to having a kid. Fuck yeah, Brad Williams, great comedian. Do a podcast called &quot;About Last Night&quot; which you guys should check out. Brad is the shit. Definitely a cool addition having an LP in there. If you don't have a midget definitely pick one up for It's street cred. People Don't steal one, that's, you know, illegal and seven years bad luck. But so many things I got to that I didn't know about I didn't know that little you know what I'm saying? Did you know that they could drive? I didn't know that they could drive. Two months into hanging out, Brad and I were leaving a comedy club. He's like, &quot;Hey man, you want a ride?&quot; I was like, &quot;On your dragon? What the fuck? What? What?&quot; It's not gonna be a car. He actually drives a Mini Cooper, I don't know if it's for the joke, but. Definitely fills my heart I saw him and his now wife Yeah, definitely not something And also something I was Thank you, God, that is a free gift. It's like a lunar eclipse, you know? Happens once a year, you take notes, report to the others so they can prepare emotionally. 'Cause it's a lot of imagery You're at a house, you're I hope there are midget folks And I was drunk and I was I was too drunk to be there. You ever been so hammered that you can't recognize for yourself that it's time to go 'cause on whatever fun pops up, you know? So I just wanted to stay close but I was bumping into fucking, what's up, fridge? You know? Alright, probably time to I'm flexing on fridges and shit and then all of a sudden I and I didn't know how I got there and that was terrifying to say the least. I just was upstairs bumping into doors. Everything felt like a I wonder what sort of fun could be behind that door, you know? And then I saw light streaming super majestically, and I was like, man, that could be Narnia or maybe there's a festival of snacks in there, you know? I wanted to make a drunk discovery and it was neither of those, and that was just so much to take in, I was frozen in the doorway as a fan and a concerned friend. 'Cause Brad was going at speeds I didn't think were possible, I was like, dude, slow down, you're gonna burst into cookies, you know? I was just worried about my buddy. My eyes were wide, my jaw was dropped, I made a wish, you know? I was just trying to get Seeing a midget fuck wasn't After I saw it, I went home, wrote it down and crossed it off my bucket list. It's like, that shit should've been there, I gotta dream bigger. No pun intended. I'm gonna leave you with one thing before we take this party up a notch. Again, perspective, if or you got some friends in learn from it, okay? That's how you're gonna and take it outside to which is what we all I had jobs that I fucking despised. My first job was bagging Hated that shit, got sucked Albertsons, it's your store I was like, oh hell yeah. Then I'm gonna steal beer You know? And I did and I got I bagged some Toaster Strudels I was 17 looking at this thing as good as it's gonna get, But every day couple kids that really turned my day around. And I don't think we can all attest, any job is more tolerable if you got a fun cast of And every day one kid in came in so fucking fired up, just so juiced up for the day, little slow, but so much enthusiasm. He was like, &quot;Adam, Adam, what's up, man? What's up, dog? What's up, what's up, man? Hey, hey man, hey, hey, hey, you ready to have some fucking fun today?&quot; I was like, &quot;You know Here I was thinking bagging groceries is as good as it's gonna get and you come in with this You know what, dude, Brian, And then I would watch him onto a loaf of bread. And not think there was God bless him, just And then you get to watch That was the best part of Just, thanks for not fucking And Brian would check in with me like I had something to do with it. &quot;This kid taught me everything I know!&quot; I was like, &quot;Fuck that, dude, I know it's the other way around.&quot; Pepsi then bread, motherfucker, we learned that on day one. &quot;Have a good day.&quot; But Brian logged a lot of hours and I knew there was room for error and I'll never forget it, holiday season, Seattle, Washington, 1998 rolls around. A lot of customers coming through, a lot of items to assess and organize. Brian dropped three jars I think the chaos and and he panicked, man. You don't know the true impact pickles have hitting the floor until you see and hear that shit live. It is just as intense as you imagine. Just pickles, pickles, fucking, Record scratch moment. Everyone in the store was like. I even heard a guy three aisles down go, &quot;That's the most pickles I've ever seen!&quot; Everyone's losing their fucking mind. Customer justifiably he was like, &quot;Dude, come Are you even paying attention? What are you, fucking retarded?&quot; Oh yeah, hadn't seen Brian's face yet. He was deep down in that bag trying to organize shit properly. So Brian hears it and does this slow, dramatic movie look up. He's like, &quot;What did you say?&quot; Customer was like, &quot;Oh, - Yes! I wanted the pickles in They're on the floor, I want Just being a dick about it. And here's why I love Brian, really stuck up for but didn't wanna make the customer or the moment more than it had to be. Look right at the dude and goes, &quot;It's okay, man, it's alright, people get angry, but just so I'm a human being and I made a mistake.&quot; Right? Sweetest shit ever. I still get choked up thinking As soon as he said it, I heard The More You Know just, right? But I heard it in Brian's voice so it was like. Yeah, it's more fun to hear it that way and fuck you if you're not Here's how the story wraps up, I got a crazy photographic memory. I dunno when I got it but I saw Brian and his brother and sister at the mall I grew up in a few months ago, roaming around and I'm like, I gotta check in and say what's up. It'd be rude of me not to, So I go, &quot;Yo, Brian!&quot; And he goes, &quot;What's up?&quot; I was like, &quot;Yo, it's Adam And he goes, &quot;Oh shit! What's I'm like, &quot;I'm good man, I live in LA now, I'm doing standup.&quot; He's like, &quot;Oh, shit, Hollywood! Fuck yeah, man, have you I'm like, &quot;That's a weird just wanna get that friendship He's like, &quot;I'm good man, I'm good. I'm still working at Albertsons. You know, Albertsons 'til I die, probably. What's your stand up about?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Oh, you know, little of that.&quot; He goes, &quot;Do you do any You know, not too much funny to report on that front, Bri, to be honest. And then I swear to God, he and goes, &quot;Do you remember Like, fuck yeah, man, I think about that every day of my life. Then I can't make this up, he goes, &quot;I did that shit on purpose.&quot; Whoa. Of course you did. It looked too premeditated, There was a motive involved for sure. As soon as he said that, I I was like, was there a that could've led me to see Was Brian trying to &quot;Shit's about to go down! Grab all your favorite pickles, I'm dropping them all, baby!&quot; So I go, &quot;Bri, why'd you do that, man?&quot; 'Cause I still talk to he always hits me up. It's always so late, &quot;What's up, player?&quot; Followed by a Will Smith &quot;You gotta watch this Followed by an invite to play Uno. Like, &quot;Dude, Bri, it's 4:00 a.m.&quot; He's like, &quot;Pussy.&quot; Alright, draw four, bitch. And then just no response for six months. So I go, &quot;Bri, why'd you do that?&quot; He goes, &quot;You really wanna know, man? I'll tell you why I did that shit, I'm like the James Bond of pickles, man.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Yeah dude, what? What does that mean? Why did you do it?&quot; &quot;I'm like fucking Bruce Willis, &quot;Why did you do it, dude?&quot; &quot;Fucking Will Smith, &quot;Brian, shut the fuck up. Why did you do it?&quot; &quot;Because that guy fucked my mom once, that's why my parents got divorced.&quot; Whoa, what the fuck are I'll take things I didn't for a thousand, Alex. What a gangster. Do you understand how simple This kid was just like, oh really? You fucked up my childhood? Okay. Well guess who's not taking You guys ready to take You guys having a good time so far? I know you can do better than that, make it loud for a special guest, from &quot;Leverage&quot; and I like my man in the black Ready to go in the corner Yeah, you're the captain You look like you like to tan Is that true my man Or do you just have Which one is it can you Can you tell us real quick, Which, which, which one - He just goes, urgh. - How long have you been married, dude? - Five years. Nice, nobody here gives a shit, but. It's alright, you didn't do it for them. You did it for you. What's that? - We care. - Your friends care, oh yeah. These are your friends? Who's your best friend in this group here? What's that? Because there's three there's obviously one couple that probably came last minute and you were like, goddammit, Which couple is it, Who's your best friend, Which is couple is it, Who's in second place - What about my man on the end here in the hat and the glasses? What's your name, dude? - Mike. - Mike? - Mike? - It's Mark. - It's Mark. Whoa, you don't know your name Don't you think that's Mike, Mark, Mark, Mike Mike, Mike Mike - Boy, that's gotta be so when they're like, so, nice - Mike, Mike. Mike, ha ha! What do you want? What about my man up front dude Shaking your legs super Jittery in the front, What's your name do you Is this your girlfriend? No, is this your wife No, did you meet tonight? No Are you kidnapping her Is she your hostage For just a couple hours Blink twice if you're Hostage date, hostage date Hostage date, hostage date Hostage date, hostage date Ooh, aah A man a couple rows back Sitting like AC Slater Sitting cool, chill I like your mojo, dude You look super comfortable Do you bring that sort To your life in your every What do you do, what do you do, dude - Electrician. - Electrician. Cool, way to bring the energy down Way to bring the energy down, Way to bring the energy down There literally could've You could've said Way to bring the energy down, Yeah, way to bring the energy down That's actually pretty cool We need you, dude, so Thanks for your service dude Thanks for making this show possible Thanks for the lights and Couldn't do it without you Was that the dream when you were a kid On the playground, what was your dream Was that the dream You know how when you're a kid You got delusional thoughts About what's possible And you're like, oh shit Not anything's actually possible Trying to readjust What was your dream What did you wanna do before Did you wanna be an athlete Did you want to compete in a mathlete Did you wanna go to the Moon Did you wanna drink with a spoon And be the first guy Improv is tough Yeah. So real quick, before we wrap it up And I hope you wrap it Don't want a baby that you don't want You know what I'm talking about That's it, thank you so much, you guys were a lot of fun, thank you. I hope you had a good time tonight, man, you guys are a great crowd. Thank you very much for you guys were a fucking great crowd. One more time for Avery Fuck yeah, goodnight, thank Thank you very much. Goodnight, San Francisco! - Adam Ray, everybody,