If the world was ending, and you could save only of planet Earth, what kind of moments would faced in 1977, when they decided to attach to the selection of photos intended to immortalize at these pictures, which have now left our solar I can't get out of my head how they will the vacuum of space, these images could last outliving the sun. And though that should (Title: Why Deep Space Scares Us) Space has long been a birthplace of existential by concerns of "Space Madness," the theory that by entering the celestial abyss. It makes sense. very blood in your veins would form bubbles brain exploding with pain until lack of oxygen ninety seconds later. Even a successful voyage surrounded by the hostile dark. Though "Space mood swings, and severe emotional distress have the void. The idea that a human mind plunged drown, has crept into the foundations of how the narrative begins in the shallows -- depicting would have been comforting to its late 60's these early space scenes are a facade, a veneer the unfathomable. The deeper you descend into artificial gravity and neatly divided meals amount universe. Like space itself, 2001 ultimately like something the mind wasn't meant to fully in Andrei Tarkovsky's film Solaris. The story of all crewmembers have become trapped within their of space-born madness. Yet while 2001 spans from of evolution, the scale of Solaris is intensely the film, like the characters, constantly flashes a story of humanity's ascension, Solaris makes the do with the stars, and more to do with trauma photographs, the past lingers -- both a steadying the face of a vast, indifferent universe, how Outer Wilds forces you to confront this question alien exploring the cosmos in a worryingly do in Outer Wilds is, well, die. The game is a every failure is an opportunity to learn from your twenty-two minutes of the game: every time you time loop. It's a mechanic that changes the value first few loops, I soon began to throw myself into away. Simultaneously, I began to skip over smaller speaking with a friend if all this is going to Outer Wilds displays images depicting all you a feature that subtly reframes what experiences get you closer to beating the game, but when it's the moment that stands out. Yet there's this... I became separated from my ship. I wasn't too up with -- oh wow, that's really moving. Caught in further out of view. Soon, it was hopeless... and as wasn't going to end until I ran out of oxygen. And the thought of drifting until then, waiting for my me of a historical fragment I'd learned long ago. dog named Laika. Part of a Soviet experiment to Laika's journey through the stars was designed to metal coffin. It was assumed she'd die in the craft overheated. The last words she likely us.' ...My ill-fated drift through the cosmos didn't my body slowly fell into the sun, the voyage unlike Laika, my journey then continued -- with me. ...Onboard her doomed craft, Laika's usual rate. She was terrified. Did she also feel what was happening to feel betrayed? There's to commemorate the loyalty of our canine friends... 'The trajectory of this ship is unchanging.' is on an unalterable path towards annihilation. unalterable path towards annihilation. In Cecile on a... you get it. As a piece of interactive from the two films, telling through pixel art cosmonaut whose ship is drifting into the sun. continues to care for the plants aboard their of all three pieces of media take part in for are the last specimens of vegetation from a barren the plants are the sole source of food for the survival. Yet none of these characters is going to obsess over their plants' health, maintaining check on the plants in the greenhouse. I check check the dust on the leaves. And when no one is the astronaut in A Star Called Sun is trapped distorting into a street corner from their past. abruptness -- vignettes from the main character's seems reflective of how the protagonist's child ship's corrupted hard drive. Instead of a sun, And yet the main character continues to raise his how short. Despite the looming cosmic destruction, memories hold weight. 'I wish I had made more of the end of A Star Called Sun. 'I wish I had taken the Golden Record is the Javanese romantic melody I think there's something inspiring about this billions of kilometers from the nearest flower. it. Because on an interstellar scale, Voyager trillions of miles further away. Space is so of the planets, our mind goes to the model from space doesn't look like this. It doesn't even look It looks like this. That tiny, pale blue dot And everything in space is constantly moving, We like to think of that darkness as something through. But without air molecules to vibrate, the either -- at least not the fiery type from sci-fi punctuated only with the occasional burst of supposed to navigate this vast, silent, alien sea? we've turned to radio waves to make noise in the far out as three hundred trillion kilometers. I'll zoom in. Maybe once more. There, that's pale blue dot. And it's probably an exaggeration, a jumble of old tv and radio dramas, likely fall blurring into meaningless static. In the game The this static. You play as an old man working for using a probe attached to an actual fishing from Earth. Most are a jumble of nonsense -- old in a love letter, or a fragment of history. It's to reflect on the types of messages we've blasted intelligence would even make of our detritus. are also designed to be messages informing probes won't dissipate like radio waves -- though found and decoded the record, they'd discover including chimpanzee noises (screeches). I'm not... behind that one. I'm not entirely sure I do. But contact, what if extraterrestrials understood Earth? The scariest moment of the Outer Wilds but when I descended into a fog in the center in fact, the lights of giant alien anglerfish. don't want aliens to hear us. The 'Dark Forest seems so devoid of life is because any species hostile extraterrestrial life. Science fiction has our presence we should have left alone. In some planet, bringing the destruction directly to horror-alien is one encountered in the far reaches like personifications of the unknown itself, a the beyond. It's not just the aliens that make the isolation. Okay, having said that, we now Isolation. Based on the iconic film franchise, except for, of course, the alien. There's a this creature scary. There's the fact your weapons the fact that your only way of tracking it is glance away from what's in front of you. But the with the creature, and everything to do with the is basically a haunted house. Though lacking in corridors concealing monsters, one that sequesters beyond the station can be seen as part of the horror-set-piece -- a setting so frightening, you with hostile life scarier than a space that's Odyssey, famously stated: &quot;Two possibilities we are not. Both are equally terrifying.&quot; Here on of the universe. Solar wind from our sun shields of safety in the roiling cosmic ocean. Jupiter older sibling with its gravitational pull. Earth's kilometers into space, safeguarding the surface didn't get magnetospheres at all. It's difficult in our solar system are. Jupiter's Great Red Spot, storm larger than the Earth itself. If you were rise to over one thousand three hundred degrees Fahrenheit. Not even the cracked, yellowing in our solar system, gets that scorching. the outer Ice Giants, Uranus and Neptune, spin so regularly fall hundreds of degrees below freezing. of exoplanets in our galaxy alone -- although we've the sheer number of potential Earth-like worlds, of life out there. But maybe that's a privileged must exist because, well, we exist. But until challenging to calculate just how lucky we are to space hasn't always been a source of fear. a flat backdrop, a shallow dome of tiny lights the universe. Even as our understanding grew, and apparent, many assumed we'd find other habitable early 20th century, the idea that Mars or the Moon far-fetched. When your only frame of reference would be jam-packed with extraterrestrials. Though portrayed more flippantly. In Jules Verne's 19th characters make it to the moon by shooting their It's difficult to imagine the true nature your bones rapidly lose density. A place where the of silent, inhospitable lifelessness. Perhaps the during the 1976 Soviet mission Soyuz 21. The a sixty day stay onboard the Salyut 5 space claimed a maddening odor had filled the cabin, a to be called off. Yet allegedly, upon the reserve was detected. The scent was likely an intense conditions mixed with the psychological terror to remain on the ground. But even in Earth's from the cosmos. Asteroids hurled from the beyond rocks large enough to trigger mass extinctions far greater dynasties of life than humanity. Even close calls all the time. And even if we aren't on we are on a collision course with the sun. A few giant, and in all likelihood swallow the Earth. all stars in the universe, is eventually going that the sun's death was imminent. Telescopes upon the solar surface, and temperatures began to saw then-unprecedented snowfall in the Northern infamous Lord Byron was inspired to craft an "I had a dream, which was not all a dream. / The wander darkling in the eternal space, / Rayless, blackening in the moonless air." Of course, the had nothing to do with the falling temperatures Mount Tambora stratovolcano in the Pacific, which shroud eventually lifted, I see it as a reminder little change it would take to make our planet is the true most frightening aspect of the cosmos. four-point-five billion years, the Milky Way will fender-bender flinging untold stars out into the nothing lasts, if everything in the universe why try to preserve anything at all? What meaning have? Maybe permeance isn't what gives something radio signal is going to decay, every marshmallow scale, the Golden Record probably isn't going things that have been lost still matter, moments even with the knowledge that one day every light unchanging.' I'm still going to water the plants. enjoyed this video and want to support the hitting the notification icon to stay up to date