And now here with some friends I met we are going to visit the neighborhood of Tacares de Grecia. Tacares de Grecia is a conflictive neighborhood, a slum, they tell me that here. It is very dangerous and honestly nothing has ever happened to me until today I have not had any problems, to be honest. Yes, here the master already took out his dangerous drink that looks like gasoline, I will not deny it. This is called little Lulu. Little Lulu. Oh, you bastard. Oh no, yes it is, it's very strong, I'm not going to finish it, excuse me. You're really going to get it up. A champion. We are in Costa Rica, a pleasure to be back in this beautiful country, the land of the Pura vida. And in this video we will visit popular neighborhoods in the capital of the country and its surroundings. Neighborhoods that attract attention either for their red light districts or for their historical context. And we start in the neighborhood known as Caro Quintero. This community used to be the mansion of the famous Mexican drug trafficker Caro Quintero until around the late eighties, when the DEA caught him, the property was completely abandoned and naturally people began to enter and loot the property. It is said that people from the surrounding area took screens, very expensive furniture, and even the marble on the floor was cut down so that it could be resold elsewhere. It was around the nineties that the authorities began to put a little more order, but by the time they came to do the official count of how much the drug trafficker had, they found that it was practically empty. Most of the things had been looted. It was around that time that people began to inhabit the massive property because wow, this makes sense, such a massive piece of land for a single criminal, of course not. There are more than 150 families living here today, although of course there is no specific census as such. It is quite interesting to walk around here and realize how much of this structure we are looking at belonged to the criminal leader's mansion. It is said that this was like the main area of the house, in which now several houses have been built, in fact of a very good size. Now, that's enough of an introduction. The emblematic neighborhoods of Costa Rica await us. Let's hit it. See how we found the old pool of the mansion of the narco Ag. Wow. The original mosaics and everything are still there and the locals tell me that the pool went on and on. It is very interesting that in this extension alone there are six houses and big ones, don't think they are cramped, some of them even have several levels. How many families came to live here? Some neighbors here are telling me that calling the neighborhood Caro Quintero today is no longer entirely appropriate. They are making a movement so that this name can be changed. And in fact, officially, initially, as of the date I am recording, it is already called Vista de Santa Maria. Although on Google Maps the name is still caro quintero. If you look for it like that, you will see it as such. In 2015 we requested the nomenclature that gives the names, places and places of Costa Rica and we were approved to call us Vistas de Santa Maria, since what we had and the press gave us was a nickname, because it was a layer on this farm. And after that we applied for it and it was approved. Then we are Vistas de Santamaria, because our international major neighbor is the Juan Santamaria Airport. So the way to say is Vista de Santa Maria. Vista de Santa Maria. Caro Quintero. Do you call it caro Quintero? When they ask me where I live, I say Caro Quintero. I have been here for a year and a half and it is a very quiet community. When they ask me where I live, I say that I go here. They tell me that it is very dangerous here and honestly I work and I come here at 10:00 p.m. and nothing has ever happened to me until today. and nothing has ever happened to me until today I haven't had any problems, to tell you the truth. Yes. What do you call the yerido colony here? Caro Quintero. Do you call it caro Quintero? Me too, whenever I go to talk Caro Quintero. I am Caro Quintero. View of Santa Maria. No, very little, very little. So far it is being used. Ok, but if they ask you, you say Caro Quintero. Caro Quintero, yes. Is this a hot neighborhood, let's say, is it a hot neighborhood or is this pure myth? For me it is pure myth, because 20 years of living here like this, problems, a year ago and now it is just pure tranquility that people, everyone knows each other. So united. It has never been the intention of the whole community to promote the name of a drug trafficker. It was as one says, mere history, but now yes, history of the inhabitants. We are views of Santamaria to cause another perspective that we, Zweitausendein, are a community. Quite feisty, because I have invented chupacabras from here in the neighborhood. Ah, look, it's cool. Here I met the good chupacabra who is a good guy here. Do you come here to help in the community? I'm the one who takes out the garbage here. Thanks to them I earn my money here. Ah, ok. Here you get your money privately, you come here to pick up the garbage and all this. No, that's great. Look, that's very interesting, even though there is not all the support from the government as such, the neighbors organize themselves and put in a little bit at a time and that's how they are getting out of this is not good. In the neighborhood there is only one small store, a grocery store or let's call it a mini supermarket, called G, which supplies the more than 1000 people who live here. Likewise, there is only one grocery store, well, it's not like there are so many people living here, but this reduces the need to go shopping elsewhere. The store is about 30 years old, we have had it here for yousand or 10 and a half years. Before that my father-in-law was the one who founded it, then my brother-in-law and now I am here with my wife. Doesn't it happen to you that later at night, drunks come in drunk and touch you and say they want beer? You will see that we have tried to establish that no, that is, work time, work time, family and family time, because we need that space. You see I was showing you the remains of the swimming pool, because this pool was so big that even in the same space we could build a community Yousand center, see this, to hold the community assemblies, the Jorjito's birthday party, etc. Etc. In fact, the neighbors I have talked to tell me very proudly that this neighborhood is the only one in the surrounding area that has an official community center, a product of the constant work of the people who have taken the lead and have defended it, we are not a precarious neighborhood, we are going to pave the streets, we are going to have our center and we are going to get rid of this reputation of being a dangerous neighborhood that we have. Because yes, if you ask people about the caro quintero neighborhood and so on, they will tell you no, that is a dangerous neighborhood, it is Barrio Caliente, and so on. But honestly, after having already walked and talked to the people and so on, I can tell you that it feels very orderly, very good and it is very cool, that all of this is a private achievement of the neighbors themselves. Well, excellent reception here in Comunidad Vistas de Santa Maria. Let's see what else we find. One of the areas best known nationally for being hot is Infiernillo and its surroundings. Let's see, I don't know if the official name of the neighborhood is Infiernillo, but that's how everyone knows it, and in fact if you look it up on Google and Google maps and Waze, etc., that's how it comes up as such, as Infiernillo. And right now here with some people I met, we are going to go to know the neighborhood of what is it called? Grecia. Tacares de Grecia. Tacares de Grecia is, let's say, it's a hot neighborhood, it's quieter, it's a conflictive neighborhood, a slum. And here we also come with Mickey. How are you, my Mickey? Why is he called Mickey? For mouse. Hey, your tattoo says real to death. It's cool. And you don't have a nickname like Mickey Casa? They call me. Within the ghettos it happens a lot that they recruit Zweitausendein to children, to minors for the gangs and such, or this is not seen here? You don't see that in this country. We stopped here at a local cantinita called Soda el Negro. Good name. They tell me that here sodas are all these centers of small consumption and no, we are having a classic caldosa. I had already tasted this on my last visit to Costa Rica, so they are basically fried foods that are sold in the store, right? The little corn tostadas, or chips, etc. And they put ceviche with broth inside. So the truth is that it is quite good, quite succulent, here with the black they are tasty, my black, here they make the best broth or what? Of course, Luisito already had it, the truth is, yes, good, I liked it. Is this your father's recipe or what? Yes, this business was my dad's 14 years ago and he passed away four years ago, then my mom had it and now I came to help him there a little bit. Yeah, yeah. Hey, my nigga, have you tried big bad? I had the chance once. Really? Did we have one or what? Not here soft, mild, because we're just starting the day. Cheers, date. Cheers. Cheers, date. Did you pour it all over yourself? It hit him mercilessly, didn't it? How tasty, how refreshing. My brand of tequila liqueur Picosito, tamarind flavor, delicious, exquisite. It is already available in liquor stores around Costa Rica, so you can go get yours to try it, to taste it, to start with all the weekends. Well, let's continue. This street is colloquially known as &quot;calle de las latas&quot; (street of the cans) because previously all the houses here were made with this metallic material. Nowadays houses are still being built like this. Yes, you can see quite a few, but I would say that half of them are made of brick. Here my brother from the bus stopped for a moment to greet us. How's the day going daddy? It's going well. Very hard, but it's going well. See you later my brother. Good luck. How funny, the brother stopped the route there and if there were some kids in the back, look. Very cool people, very relaxed people. It's a great place to live here. Here my bro, is that photo to promote the gas tanks or what? New gas delivery man, Luisito? Here in Rapigas, Carrillos bajo de puas. If you need cool gas, here my brother has Rapigas. It's called Carrillos bajo de Puas. We are located. Let's see, with this powerful bike, how long will it take you to deliver gas? In less than 15 minutes. We are at your house. That is to say, it is what they guarantee. The gas is guaranteed to last longer. Rapigas. I even like the slogan and everything. And the gas tank is back here. Ah, dog. No, this is a big business. No, but I thought you told me it was just those. You have a gas empire here. Hey, well, you know, if you need gas, Rapigas is the good one. Here the master has already brought out his dangerous drink, which is that canister. It looks like gasoline, I'm not going to deny it. What is this? It's called Little Lulu. The little Lulu of the area, dad. And what do you make it with, like with plums? It's with fruits, it's like a distillate, just a wine. Well, since it came in the bottle as if it were a kind of tannin, I thought: Hey, let's try it, right? Or what? That's the idea. Let's have a taste, let's see how it is. Is this the mild one or is it the turkey? It's for the brave. This one is for the brave. Ok, then I'll take it. Do you take one, do you want another? Ah, well, that's the real danger. Well, come the little lulu from the light, from the cans. Oh, you bastard, not today, no, he's not, I wasn't exaggerating, he's scolding a lot. Well, he's not dangerous. Even the colochos are stretching him, right? He hits like your mom when she's angry. It's really hard. Look, I'm not going to finish it, I'm sorry. It's very strong. You're a champion. I mean, is this what you usually drink? Yes, yes, that's right, here every day you have to have a healthy drink. Here these girls got off the bus to say hello. What are your names, girls? Jimena. Very good. Hey, I had read on the Internet and so on, that more or less around these parts it was suddenly kind of a hot zone, but I'm seeing everything too quiet. Yeah, well, that depends on the time. Let's say at about 12:01, it gets terribly hot, literally. Well, I was saying criminal. What a misunderstanding. He came out here to greet us. Good Simon is his name, right? Good Simon doesn't bite. He's good-natured, Simon. Here in this colony, up here. Would you describe this as a quiet place to live? For me, yes. I mean, it's really nice. They say it's dangerous but it has never happened to me, I've lived here for 11, 12 years and I'm relaxed. Oh look, Mickey is turning on his TikTok for me here, so do you sing? Hey, how cool is it that it's rap and you already have a stage name or not? The Mickey, the Mickey as such. Let's see if you don't get sued by Disney. Hey, what you have tattooed here is a machine gun, a mini one because you like that particular weapon and the name of my dad who passed away. Let's see, I have already tried this and I remember that it was for the brave, they brought me here to try this authentic cold cacique, this is what any self-respecting tico takes Correct, strong, strong, that is, if you don't take it, you don't graduate as a tico, you don't graduate. They are recommending me here to take it with this thing called lemon lemon, I put it here, I suck it and that's it. This tastes like glory after the little Lulu, no, it is that this one has flavor, this Zweitausendein is delicious, isn't it? The little Alulu was good. With that they turn on the motorcycle. Hey, it's delicious. It is good, yes. Now I am seeing that in this liquor store they still don't have the big bad one, we have to send one. Look how crazy. Just now we were driving past the much talked about airplane that had an accident here in the Costa Rican airport in 2022, just when I was recording this, it did not happen long ago, in the video that went viral you can see the DHL plane on the runway and suddenly it suddenly went wrong, it broke in half and to this day they keep it here and they say that it could be used for drills or similar activities and in this way it could be used for something because if we are looking at it, it was useless. We went for a night tour of the red zone of San Jose. This area located in the center of the city is well known for having a lot of prostitution, drug trade, casinos, cheap hotels, etc.. Etc. It is that kind of mobility and while today of course this is still seen, I am told that it is nothing compared to how it looked maybe 45 years ago. Y right on this corner where we are there used to be four large establishments which have now closed, most notably this hotel behind me, now abandoned, which was known as the Hotel del Rey. You hear many disturbing myths, many stories of sexual exploitation, even sexual exploitation of minors, an issue that today the authorities have fought a lot, in fact I am learning that until just a few years ago Costa Rica was a destination known by gringos and Europeans for its sex tourism, it was not very unusual for people to travel for that reason and this was getting so out of control that the authorities took advantage of the pandemic to say that all these establishments are closed, this is no longer a problem, It was not very unusual for people to travel for that reason and this was getting so out of control that the authorities took advantage of the pandemic season to say that all these establishments are closed, this is no longer healthy, this is no longer clean and they gave them a lot of collars. We are talking that before 2020 it is estimated that there were more than 70 brothels in the area and today there are maybe less than 20, although the real data who knows what they are and if you see a lot of hotels with budgets from $10 to maybe more than 100 when there is more budget and in fact you do see police patrols quite often, public security cameras, as well as they are cleaning up a lot of this area. So there you have it, a little tour through some of the neighborhoods of Costa Rica, how cool are the people, right? How talkative, how cheerful, indeed one has a great time in Costa Rica. Remember that gran Malo is already available in Costa Rica, so go to your nearest liquor store and ask if they have it, taste this exquisite tamarind-flavored tequila liqueur. Thank you very much for joining me in one more adventure, see you as always, you know in a few days with a new video. Good bye.