(tense music) - What do you wanna do, Banner? Duke it out in the middle of the street? - Sheep are stock too. Don't you forget. I'm a member - Membership does not You grazed on all your grass and you push your flock - The locust ate my grass. - Locust ate everybody's Take your flock higher. - Then it's bears killing - What can I say, Banner? (intense music) - Four cannot beat 12, Jacob. - I'm not worried about the other 11. Just you. - Hey! Goddamn it! I will not have this in my town. That man is an agent of the state. Threaten him again, you sleep Understand? - Stealing a man's grass is You graze another man's lease again and I'll have your whole flock, - Stealing grass. Man doesn't own the grass. God owns the grass! And you're no god, Jacob (dramatic music) - Hey, I'm unarmed! I'm unarmed! (gunshot bangs) (dramatic music shifts) (gunshots banging) Jacob! (dramatic music continues) - Son of a bitch. (gun thuds) (gun thuds) You come on my land with your (gun thudding) Shooting my kin. - I shot at no one. I don't know who shot. I thought the boy shot at us. - Zane! - Which one shot at you? - They was all shooting at me! - I'll hunt us up some trees. - You're gonna hang us, eh? Hang me? It's the fuckin' 20th century, for keeping my sheep from starving? Cattle don't graze up here. Nothing grazes up here. Well, go ahead, hang us, fuckin' hang us, and see how long it to fuckin' hang you! - What did I tell you I'd do if I found your sheep Zane! Take eight cowboys Start pushing 'em towards the res! - [Zane] Yes, sir! - They're starving on the res, starving. We'll fix that. You owe my nephew a horse. (soft strings music) - We taking these boys to town? - I've got something else in mind. (mellow music) - Jacob. Jacob, what are you doing? - I was just wondering who this old man is staring at me in the mirror. When the hell did that happen? - Never seen that man before. (gunfire banging) - Shooting stopped. - They're mountin' up. - Here they come. Watch your ammo. (tense music continues) - Stay down, stay down. (tense music crescendos) - Jake. (gunfire banging) (dramatic music) (dramatic music fades) - Jake Dutton! I'm a man of my word! - Run. (bullets pattering) (foreboding music) (intense music) - Bedroom? (intense music continues) On the table. Put Elizabeth on that table over there. There are scissors at bring them, both of them. Through the door on the and a bucket, bring it here. Thank you. (fabric tearing) (intense music fades) Ah. Here. Here. Press these against the wounds. Press hard. - You get 'em all? - One drove off. I'll send - No Sheriff. They find out what they've done to me, they'll come for this place, the banks, miners, the thieves. No Sheriff. (panting) Cara, it's just no use. - You're still talkin'. - Honey... - I'll not quit. - Spencer must come home now. Get him home. Now, get him home. - What would you do? Oh, guide me, Mother Mary. Guide me. Thieves have taken the We have no leader. - You be the leader. (gentle music) You be the leader. - The cattle aren't worth another life. Can we afford to lose them? - It's only lives that No fighting. Till Spencer gets here, let the cattle go. - I had abandoned all hope for you. - Ain't gonna get rid of me that easy. - I forbid you to die. - I not dying. I'm too stubborn. Bring me Zane. (soft strings music) He's taking it pretty hard. - It's cost him more than anyone. - Keep him close. Don't let him go to town anymore. Did you start hiring livestock agents. - Sheriff has started interviewing. - No, you gotta do it. You gotta look him in the eye. Don't trust the charming ones; charming ones work for him. If he's smart, he's got someone with money. - Why do you think that? - 'Cause that's what I'd - I find it hard to believe that anyone would support that monster. - Would take another Who's the one man in this state benefits if the ranchers move out? What's the one business that - Gold. - You can start on solid foods tomorrow: oatmeal, rice, lamb. And have some of your you need to start moving. I'll check on you next week. - Cowboys don't get to see me like this. - I'll help you. - You're gonna have to - You've lost enough weight. - Guess we'll find out. Guess you're gonna be holding pretty high over my head. - Put it this way. There is no more debate about a generator or a clothes washing machine. - Pretty expensive nurse. - And you might want to lean - Don't say it. - Jesus. I suppose there's no ease into this modern age. - Yes, of course. I'll let you choose - Well, that's mighty generous. You find any more men today? - [Cara] Fewer than I'd hoped. - Well, what we can't hire - You leave all the I'm not going through that again. - It's not my intention to get shot. - Nor is it my intention So all those thoughts they stay there. - They're blasting a mine right above this ranch's They own the property to the To squeeze what's in the middle, and what's in the middle is us. Justice would be a luxury. My concern is survival. - I know. That's why I did it. - Did what? (engines whirring) - Don't be mad. I did it for you. (deep strings music) - For god sakes, Jacob, You know how bad this looks? - It's just like I said, and there's a dozen - But no proof anywhere. I'll show you some fuckin' proof! And there's more proof buried and even more proof shipped - Where's all the bodies - Rotting on the Wyoming border. - Yeah, you sure got a - What would you have done different? - I would've told the sheriff. - You think you could along with every thief - I understand what the bank woulda done, and I know what the thieves woulda done, if you died, but you didn't, and you still sat on this. Now I know what you're up Wyoming's already had a range war; Montana ain't having another. I'll arrest him in the morning. In the meantime, everybody, gives a statement to the deputies. (heavy strings music) (door opens and closes) - Damn right I'm mad! - [Cara] Jacob... (door thudding) (door thudding) - Banner Creighton, you're under arrest. - For what? - Two counts of murder and four - Who'd I murder, and who the (tense music) - Look like you've seen a - If you're arresting me, arrest him. This fuckin' jackal hung me killed my friends, for trespassing. - And he was well within his rights. Turn around. - Well, at least let - County jail's got a (handcuffs rattling and clicking) - See you brought your army, You hear me? You're - Nice robe. - Keep smiling, pup. You cheated death twice. You - [Sheriff] Sounds a lot like (mellow music) (mellow music continues) - [Elizabeth] How's this? - All the lumps must be gone. - I have much more respect for - There's a measure of (mellow music fades) Got caught in the rain? - A little bit. - We're baking a cake. - I see that. What's the celebration? - You coming home. If you're gonna bake us we're gonna need bigger horses. (mellow music resumes) - What happened? - Where does he belong? where he will be convicted - Thank you. - Where's Jack? - He's right behind me Dramatic little thing, isn't she? - It's like having a new puppy. - I remember when you were the new puppy. - No, you don't. - New commission formed in CEO of Anaconda Copper - Whitfield. - Whitfield, Silver Mining, CEO. Donald Whitfield, vice chair. You put the bosses of the mining companies in charge of regulating the mines? - That'll tell you all you need - Well, you're in politics. - I'm in law enforcement. - You enforce the laws you push through. - Jack. I'm just saying it's the same thing. Hey, you're a cattleman Am I wrong? - There's this theory that after studying tribes in India The smaller tribes didn't didn't need any. They could sit down and decide where to plant crops, to hunt. It was just a big family really. But when the number of if there wasn't any government, the strongest people would every time without fail. They would enslave, rape, steal, enrich their lives at the Government is man's way of but it can't be controlled. That's what we are. Sooner or later, the enrich themselves at your expense, we use the government to do it. And mark my words, one to control what we say and how we think. They'll outlaw our right I created the commission this family provides for itself, how it protects the land. - Well, isn't Whitfield - The exact same thing. Unfortunately for him, what's is not good for ours. - Your client is released without bail. (gavel thuds) - Don't look back, don't speak. Let's go. - You know what I'm looking at? - [Lawyer] Don't speak. - I know exactly what you're looking at. - I'm looking at a ghost. You fuckin' coward. Trying - I'll show you coward. - I'm guessing the blond didn't make it. (men grunting) - No fighting in this courtroom! I will hold you all in contempt and you can fight it out in a jail cell. - You keep sending boys I guess if I was as old This don't end in court. It ends in a field in front - If that's where you want to die, I'm more than happy to help you out. (intense music) (men shouting) - Drop the weapon! (Whitfield chuckling) - You will stop! (intense music fades) - There will be no violence here, sir. This is our home, our home! Have you no decency whatsoever? - Well, I suppose that would depend on what you consider decent. Well, we've shown all our toys, Stuart. We can put them away now. I trust you will offer - Lower 'em, boys. - Your line of work appears on the season: gardening in the spring, selling in the fall, and The future receives all my focus. Once a mine is producing, I seek the next. Back east, every home has One in 10 Americans owns an automobile. By the end of the decade, The world will be mobile. You know, they expect 130,000 visitors in the park this year? Can you imagine? In 30 years, cattle will in Montana, and neither will mining. Can you guess what it will be? - I don't care what it will be. - You should. It'll have a profound effect More Americans live in for the first time in and they will come by the millions to experience this majestic place, and they won't want to leave. Texas has its oil boom, And as the two largest we stand to benefit handsomely. I was looking over the public records. You're one of very few ranchers who owns his land with no loan. Impressive, especially with since the war ended. I commend you, sir. You were, however, behind Were you aware? - The end of the year is not here yet. - The payments are biannual as you know. - That's not a requirement. - We argue semantics, for a rancher who only The point is that first so I took the liberty Hefty penny you owed. As I'm sure you're aware, if I'm not repaid by the end of the year, the deed reverts to me. - We have done no harm to you. Why would you do this to us? - Because I can. I'm a businessman. The word decent doesn't apply to me.