Shop owner: Welcome to nasi lemak bumbung! Welcome to nasi lemak bumbung! Thank you! Thank you very much you coming here to support Can I interview you? Actually Im youtuber Oh youtuber? from where? From Korea Yeah I wanna introduce like Indian style nasi lemak So whats the difference between indian style nasi lemak &amp; Malay style or chinese style nasi lemak Nothing is different were malaysian Nothing is different were malaysian Yeahh We must think only that you know? Were multiracial of malaysians you know We have chinese indian &amp; malay So you must find out what our food recipe For this one, nasi lemak So everybody you can see Nasi lemak can collaborate all the races here! yeah! You can see that Wow thats a beautiful answer thank you sir! Wow thats a beautiful answer thank you sir! Last week after work, I brought Kim to one of my favourite nostalgic Nasi Lemak stalls called Nasi Lemak bumbung This place was an important part of my student life and I really wanted to share it with Kim Its located behind an alley and draws huge crowds because of the famous crispy fried chicken and spicy sambal 2 nasi lemak I want chicken breast you? When was the last time you came When was the last time you came to this shop? With you? No, not last time. First time. Around 19 years old. I was 19. You just found out this shop that time? Yeah, I found out at that time. How old is this shop? Very long already. It's been here for a long time. I actually don't know how long. Last time, they're not so fancy one Last time, it wasn't so fancy. It was like really Malaysian style, like ghetto style. Yeah? Yeah, and the longkang right, it wasn't so nice. It wasn't so clean basically. There was rats walking around everywhere. Now it's like, nicely paved Yeah, now it's nicely paved and it's clean now This one, this place, is really perfect for uni students. Yeah? Why? When I was uni time, basically when I discovered this place, I was uni. Every night it's crowded. Every night. The owner probably is like very rich right? I think so. This is the biggest difference between Indian nasi lemak and just Malay nasi lemak This thing(fried spices) Indian spices. Indian spices inside Sambal is also so different. Actually it's like similar but different. I don't know how to explain. Sambal but sambal is different. Coconut rice but coconut rice is different. The rempah for the also ayam is different. Yea yea yea yea Malay Nasi lemak rice is like more lemak Malay sambal for nasi lemak is more sweeter This is more spicy Yeah this one more spicy But I like spicy I like both I like all the sambal I like the price here. How much? I don't know but it's way cheaper than like for example you know like we bring Roy and them to the Wanjo? them to the Wanjo? We brought Tarawoni to Wanjo all that The meal was almost 60-70 ringgit. It wasnt cheap But here it's just going to be like 20 bucks like that. Everything including drinks. Oh, two nasi lemak and drinks? Oh, two nasi lemak and drinks Around 20 bucks I think. Not so pricey right? 20 bucks. 5000won Yeah, it's in the middle of the Yeah, it's in the middle of the city. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course we're seating behind an alley la But the alley is quite clean la so its acceptable I really love the part of Malaysia that like you can always have big chunk of chicken as your protein and rice, your carbs and then veggies. Malaysian meal if you want to like be healthy you can be healthy like so easy I think. But at the same time like the But at the same time like the obesity is like number one in Asia. Southeast Asia. Southeast Asia. Probably Asia. Probably Asia too. We are quite high in the area. I mean the food is really good. Really good. Nobody really eats just one dinner. Or maybe it's too good. Yeah, most people like especially younger people we don't just eat one dinner. We have multiple dinner. Like supper. Yeah, not even supper. This is like multiple dinner. This is like multiple dinner. Suffer. Not suffer. Suffer is like suffering. Serving? Serve is serve. Supper is supper. This is like Korean English problem. Because F doesn't exist in Korean pronunciation. It's just like P and F equals It's just like P and F equals like P- sound France also means Pe-rance Or like pishy and chipseu. Idk is it funny? Cause like when I talk about something and we Cause like when I talk about something and we mention somebody's name. Like Julia-ga(korean calling someone name) My colleague(malaysian) just laugh like Julia-ga(mocking) like that Does it sound funny? Because I think our brain, like Malaysian brain, because we learn English in school right. Like some of us are quite native English speakers I think you can consider. It sounds funny? We also love to make fun of accents I think in Malaysia Like how are you doing today? Malaysians make jokes about everything. Not only like accents. Your race and your religion. Just like making light and fun. That's so interesting because like, I don't I don't know if this is Korean Things are going to be kind of serious. But you know what, actually last time But you know what, actually last time it was really chill you know. But these days I can feel like people are getting quite sensitive about all random stuff. Because of like, I don't know. My personal opinion is all to do with these weird politicians. They want to play their weird little games. That's so interesting Malaysian politics to me Because here basically it's multi-races. So like, it's already like, actually technically people in power they don't need to They don't need to like divide like, divide people apart. Because it's already like different culture, different race people. But in Korea it's all same race. So these people in power they have to divide and conquer too right? So what they use as a tactic is like gender. Like different gender. Like gender wars. Cause like, it's kind of complicated. Cause like, it's kind of complicated. Because like Korean men going to military Because like Korean men going to military service is mandatory right? For women no. So when it comes to this matter, they always bring up like, Oh then what about Israel? Israel women goes to serve their time too there. And also like North Korean women they go to military too. So that's one. Another one is like, age different generation Like they call it like MZ Like they call it like MZ That means like millennial and gen Z generation. We put together, I think it's the same generation. MZ generation. Older generation they say this kind of Older generation they say this kind of things. MZ generation are like, they quit their MZ generation are like, they quit their job so easy. But it's not that though. They just want to look for a better opportunity. Yeah, because older generations in Korea, they are like very loyal to their company. I would spend my whole life dedicated to this company kind of thing. But these days like people don't really do that right. And they all say like, it's difficult to work together with young people. to work together with young people. But I guess that's just every country though. I mean most young people generation they are kind of more socially aware I are kind of more socially aware I are kind of more socially aware I guess. Cause of like social media and internet They read more basically. They are able to access information way faster. I can say that like... So basically it's just like different group of thinking even You know what Even my Korean friends they live in the city. the city. But they don't care about like serious But they don't care about like serious things. They only care about their own happiness, their own life. After buying the car, I'm gonna buy a house. At this city, this street. Wow they know even what street they want. I think this has this concept too in Malaysia like... This street is like everybody knows it's like premium place. I mean yeah every country there is something like that. For Korea it's extreme like each street. They have the ranking for each street basically. There are some like this street name. And it's really really the most pricey land in Korea. So like if you live in that condo, yeah people know that which condo is rich people's condo. Understand(x2) Here too, here too. Pretty much it's very obvious. Like you know if you're living near KLCC, like you're living near Lorong mayang, you know those kind of condo. Obviously it's gonna be more pricey. Basically it's just like one road after KLCC that the condo. Yeah but this is what I'm saying. Like it's near KLCC and it's just few spots right. But in Korea it's more like these areas, this is this is this condo. These areas, this is this condo. It's condo heaven I think maybe here, maybe in 10 I think maybe here, maybe in 10 years might be like that too. Yeah house price keep increasing Keep going up. Ah but still malaysian house situation is much much better than korea yeah yeah i know korea home is really extreme right? like about 200 square feet studio house your monthly pay is like rent rental rental but depends on your location but this is like let's say gangnam it's probably like RM3000 let's say gangnam it's probably like RM3000 If you are born in Seoul, that means your family has property in Seoul, you already win. You won already You won the race. You are not racing anyone actually. Young people can't really afford. How about here? It depends what kind of young people you're talking about. If your daddy rich, then anyways you're gonna buy it. If your daddy not rich, then you'd gotta save lah Save like crazy. I think most of my age people are like slightly older than me, slightly younger than me. They all go through the same thing where it's like basically if your parents have enough to help you to pay that initial down payment, then all you gotta do is just make sure that you don't overspend and use your salary to pay back your, you know, your thing. And it's pretty much anybody can afford a house. Most people can afford a house. I think this house price has gone up. One of the important factor is like One of the important factor is like small number of rich people owns many many properties. Oh my gosh, yeah. I know people who used to own like, they just buy the condo like the whole floor. Like oh, how many unit this floor, I can buy all. You know what? The house flipping is not allowed in Korea. That's what I'm saying. They use it as like Airbnb or like rental type property and then after that they flip the house. This is the one. If you have, if I'm not mistaken, if you have like one or two more than that property taxes. It should be taxed even higher. I feel like. Look, I'm talking about Korea. It's so, so pricey. But the thing is here is like anyways they buy it under their daughter's name, their son's name, their wife's name, their second cousin's name. Yeah, so if you're a politician and this thing like people found out, it's gonna be a big issue. I know right, but here you know corruption is number one. Malaysia corruption is the champion. In Korea, all the corruption is in a different way I think. Yeah, no here it's just like there are many things that doesn't protect the poor people. Yeah, in a way, yeah, they, they, like for example if you're bumiputra you do get a lot of like very good benefits. Like to protect you, but at the same time right, it's not enough to let's say give you a chance to fight against these rich people that already exist here. Because the wealth gap is already too huge. If you are a working class, there's no way you're gonna catch up to the ones who already have stuff going on for them. Yeah, I think that's a good point. The gap between rich class and the poor class people is getting too huge already. Yeah, because people are getting richer. and regular young people they can't afford the house, it's not Yes, if you are paying for rent basically in Malaysia, you are paying to help rich people to get richer. That's the end of the day, that's the fact. If you buy your own house or if you have your own property. That is going to be like Korea, cause like regular people can't afford home Yeah, even if you have any condo let's say in KL right Basically if you have one condo that belongs to you under your name, you can use that condo's name to take a loan for another house, to take a loan for anything. Let's say I'm a dad and I have three kids and I have four houses, I'm going to make that houses one one one each. Because why? Now they can go and take loan Let's say they want to do business or they need capital right, so they can loan against their house, they can loan against other things. Suddenly I remember this thing Seungri spotted at Tan Sri's birthday Seungri in Malaysia babe like think about that If you guys dont know who is Seungri HE IS CRIMINAL! Member of Big Bang Ex Member of Big Bang And that guy is really problematic dude The scandal is called burning sun scandal Really disgusting Its something to do with child prostitution Teenage girls BBC has documentary about it for 1 hour We put the link in description Its so crazy But he is in malaysia celebrating some Tan Sri's birthday Thats why I got chills because like Last time when I didnt know about malaysia If i see the video like Tan Sri birthday idk what tan sri is right? But now I have concept like Tan Sri is basically like rich people here Ex-bigbang member aka criminal Ex-bigbang member aka criminal He was just like singing for the uncle you know Performance right? Performance like that Because he got out of jail already Thats the thing, you know how long he serve? How long 3 yrs or something like that? If im not mistaken 22 months How long is he in jail? And he rape some girls? or he allow some people to rape girls and including taking drugs at his club And he filmed it(raping the girls) Without their permission You know what just now the BBC documentary BBC Korea posted it too So the best like most liked comment of it is like I'm so frustrated to watch To find out the truth and to watch this like well-made documentary On other countries platform Not from Korea For the first time Yeah his message is like Yeah his message is like What our media is doing actually? And then he's also being sarcastic about like The Korean media and like this entertainment industry And also like rich people and politicians They work together Their power their secret power type And like police too Oh yeah the prosecutor was Yoon Seok yeol The prosecutor for his case is Yoon Seok Yeol Now you just found out? Yeah because I didn't watch the documentary yet actually So actually The prosecutor for Seungri's case is the current South Korea Prime Minister President Current South Korea President Crazy right? Crazy right? You didn't know this right? You didn't know this right? Yeah after you mentioned that I feel scared to even talk about this issue In front of camera It's okay don't worry you're in Malaysia now We'll keep you safe We'll keep you safe Seungri is Many of his customers were Malaysians too Malaysians and Singaporeans Malaysians who were like how to say They go to Korea they want clubbing and like It's not they go to Korea He's bringing girls to them That's one of the crimes that I remember One of the crimes is that Bring the girls together Lets watch the documentary together Young girls right? Or just like any age If I'm not mistaken there's minors too So disgusting How come they let him in? Police Malaysia Please tourism Malaysia Jakim or whatever arrest that dude What is he doing here? That guy is criminal Basically like We don't feel safe around him(Seungri) Ah I understand Girls don't feel safe around him We means like human No I think this K-pop idols People have this weird perception that They are like kind of perfect human beings But actually they are just regular human beings Who can make mistakes just like everybody else Mistakes is one thing Mistakes is fine but His case is not Mistakes That's what I'm saying It's crime basically So mistakes They can make mistakes And so they can do crime You know what I mean? And if they do crime They gotta be punished accordingly He got released so fast Yeah 22 months in jail for Like basically like prostitution You know what's even more crazy like One of the person who provided Like, she did important role For the investigation was ex Kara Is another idol group member Her name is Goo Hara And she killed herself So I don't know what She killed herself? Because of what? Because of her boyfriend Her boyfriend basically like Illegally spy cam her Like their private video And he blackmailed her And then like there's some footage About they were in a lift Her and her boyfriend And then her boyfriend beat her up Oh man Then she killed herself Yeah after that I don't really know much about it Because I didn't follow the news like That accordingly that time Yeah she killed herself And then now it's released that like She did some important role For this Seungri case Oh she gave some report la Oh she gave some report la Yeah yeah yeah Yeah yeah yeah I'll follow up We started having dinner with our light heart and then why we became so angry? Yeah because we are both really anti this stuff, like raping, raping stuff. We don't like it, you know, like this is just about humanity, you know. It's just like Palestine. Always remember Palestine. Free Palestine. Free Palestine.