- The Richat Structure is in what is now modern Mauritania. And to some on the internet, it is for sure the location of Atlantis. I disagree. Firstly, because I just don't I think Plato made it up. - It's an urban legend Not a chance. - But secondly, I think, it's hard to imagine that if you look at the actual I know it's a very remote place, but there is still A lot of it. And that's what we're gonna discuss today, the real actual archeology Joining me is the sheriff of Google debunkers himself, Milo Rossi, AKA Miniminuteman. You already know him. You love him. This is actually our so that was a lot of fun. He's joining me because on the archeology of the Let's dig into the actual (cool jazzy music) I'm gonna hit record so we don't miss any of this magic. - Exactly. There we go. We're live. your shot there, have I, with the twist of the... - With the twist of the camera. - I think we're all good. I will say, on my little audio I'm not getting a waveform showing up. I don't know if that's good or bad. - It seems like it's - On yours. Okay. That's what matters. All right, well, I think we're live then. Stefan, how's it going? - We got Milo and Milo, together at last. - Milo and Milo. I'm glad you made that 'cause I get Milo all the time. - It works perfectly. Like I told you, I get Milo all the time. I always wondered who Guess it's you. - Yeah. You know, I had ambitions like, starting in a coffee shop and someone says like, &quot;Coffee for Milo.&quot; And we both stand up and then it's like... - Next one. Next one. - If there is one person that I've been requested probably the most, it's probably you. - Oh, for sure. For sure for the audience, - Yeah. - And this is literally - Yes. This is it. - That's the exciting thing. viewing audiences, this is our first introduction, all right. You're getting this at - Yeah. By the end of it, we're and be like, well... - I'm never working- work out at all. - Yeah. - Yeah. - Well, it's good to So, talking about the green Sahara and the Richat Structure. - That's right. - Excellent. - Excellent. on the green Sahara when your video on the which is just fine, of course. Absolutely fine. - Industrial espionage. - Yeah. But I thought it would be good to talk about the Richat Structure, because obviously, me and you, I mean you more so than me, but we dabble in that pseudo archeology, that sweet pseudo archeology. - And boy do we. always comes up. And when it comes up, the archeology of that region. - Yeah. - So... - I feel like, obviously of delving deep into the but I feel like whenever you know, obviously it's in, or some long-lost civilization. And it seems like the only, like, evidence for it being Atlantis is the fact that it looks like concentric circles, which is, like, what one of the Which you'd think, if this of the most advanced civilization to ever walk the earth or whatever, there'd be a little more than just, like, natural-looking stone features in, you know, a semi unusual pattern. I feel like they'd be columns and metal working But I don't know, maybe that's just me. - Yeah. Yeah. It's so different to the that, even if they found how do you know that's the one Because it's different - Also, like- - Yeah. It's also not underwater. Like, wasn't under the is it was lost to the sea? I feel like the desert from being under the ocean as you can get. - Yeah. I think I looked it up, I think it's about 500 So for sea level to have risen and drowned the Richat Structure, there would be evidence all over the world of like sea level rise that - Yeah, inland. - Yeah. So let's just say I'm skeptical that this is Atlantis, for sure. - Absolutely. To say the least. That being said, though. - There is evidence of - Yeah. I was surprised. Yeah, obviously, of course, I have to concede the Sahara is not as archeologically well known as virtually every other you can argue. - You know, it's a hot, dry place to be. It's politically unstable very frequently. So I was surprised when I was like, oh, but still there is literally hundreds of archeological sites documented. - Yeah. - Despite that, despite that. It's the thing about looking for the long-lost is when you are hypothesizing that there is something and prestige and scope and scale, and you're not finding Like, it's not even like, that's like way crazy It's like, there's nothing. Like, we're finding hunter-gatherer camps literally everywhere. And there is not, like, a spear point from this civilization. - Yeah, it's true. And, like, if it existed, it was just a larger than Like... - That's what we're looking for here. Like, a slightly larger than - I think that's also kind of, you know, the frustrating thing is who isn't captivated by it? But like, we've almost lost the ability to actually kind of look at it critically because of how much of, You know? Like where... - The same people who are to be really reverent of, and, like, really, what the truth might be as 100% fact. And you know, it doesn't really feel like there's any interpretation for Which, you know, as someone who, you know, studies archeology and understands the power and like, I fully agree that there could be some root truth to that story somewhere far back. You know, even if it was a larger than average Neolithic village. But it doesn't seem like the discussion around that is around that. It seems like it's more - Yeah. It has to be, like, all or nothing. Like I'm perfectly willing to concede that oral history could go back to the Early Neolithic period. I've made videos on oral history arguing that oral history can go back that far. But it just has to, you know, there has to be some element of, this is a hidden truth. I dunno. Like, it has to be this I suppose the people who are in finding a larger than I don't know, 'cause it It doesn't change everything. Yeah. - Yeah. And it's all about, you know, I think that they don't really take into account the true extent of hyperbole when it comes to repeated storytelling. You know, like every ancient story that has been morphed has turned into something And, you know, it involves and like massive, colossal, like, you know, change in the world, even if it stemmed from something that was pretty, you know, local. And that's just the nature of it. So, you know, it's funny to listen to people kind of, you know, hypothesize that Atlantis is exactly one for one what is described in Plato's they will, you know, talk about how there's shreds of truth in other ancient stories, you know? - Yeah. Yeah. Like the part of Plato's story, like, everything about Plato's Like, maybe the date was this, But the one thing that was this an all-powerful - Yeah. - That's the one thing that Do you ever feel like on you can get an incomplete picture or you don't get the full picture, you know, there's a bit - Absolutely. Absolutely. Okay. Well, this video is (Milo laughing) - That was amazing. - Cut to the ad read. Guys, we all know sensational nonsense, it's everywhere on the internet. That's the entire thing Sensational nonsense, It's a huge problem. Ground News is trying to fix that problem by giving you a more data-driven Lemme show you quickly So I've got this article here about AI being used to Incredible pattern recognition. It's a brilliant story, incredible work, but one where there's Of course, the usual suspects. Ground News gives you a on any issue you like. You can get an overview Of course, you have links to You can see who owns the on these issues, their political biases. You can see their factuality, which is based on scores by There's truly no better way to get a broad global Obviously we're talking but it really comes in handy when we're talking politics, elections, the things that dominate our life, but are fed to us by annoying what I think I want instead Ground News has that broad perspective, provides more insight than obviously, maybe exposes you to some bias in your media diet. And it just helps you form You want a bigger picture, you wanna know the bigger picture, then I think Ground News They're independent, subscriber funded, but you will save 40% which is what I have here, if you go to www.groundnews.com/stefan, or click on the QR code, But yeah, thank you so much for sponsoring this video, Ground News, and for supporting content That's what they're about too. Let's look at the facts of what's going on in the Richat Structure. Bada-bing bada-boom. Anyway, let's dig into them then. Let's dig into them. So I have emailed you a Google Drive. - Ah, I saw that. Yes. Oh, okay. Theodore Manod. Whoa. - Theodore Manod. I don't expect you to know By any chance, do you? - I don't believe I do. No. - This guy, I also, likewise, had no idea before I looked into this. This guy is a number-one gangster. Now, I also don't know So if he did something and cancelable by 2024 I do not know what went on but I don't mean to slander him like that because he is an absolute legend. Get this, he has published in his lifetime. He gave his name to 30 50 crustaceans, and several fish. I don't know how many fish. It just says several fish. - This man is a prolific, I don't know, bon viveur scientist, French naturalist, archeologist, explorer. - Wow. to be titled. And yeah, he went to to see what was going on. Actually, first of all, lemme see. In these pictures here, you can see the pictures except for the last one that says famous French scientist, how old do you think he is here whilst he is exploring the Richat? - [Milo] Oh man. 70? - 70? Try 96. - You are kidding me! - Yeah. He was still exploring - Woo. Wow. I hope to be able to walk. - When I'm 96. I hope that I'm alive - Yeah. Yeah. I think a trip to the Sahara nevermind when I'm 96. - Wow. Look at him go, dude. That's awesome. With his little monocle on. That's sick. - Yeah. Yeah. He's a real tough guy. Apparently, according to his Wikipedia, he was a lifelong vegetarian and once walked 600 miles to prove you could be tough - Point taken. I'm never questioning him again. - He's just a gang... Like, I dunno anything But he just seems like an - That is awesome. Yeah. - Wow. I'm inspired by that. I wanna be following in - I know. Yeah. It makes me feel kinda pathetic, to be honest. I thought I was doing I guess not. - No. Yeah. Yeah. - I walked to my mailbox this morning. - Yeah. I suppose I've still got 61 you know, so we'll see. I think we're already behind. - Yeah, yeah. But he was the first man, it seems, to find archeology in If you go to folder 2, Stone Tools, we'll take a look at what he found here. - Wow. Beautiful. Look at those. - Yeah. Yeah. - Damn! - If you see... If you open the map, can you see the map there where it shows the Richat really clearly? - Yeah, yeah, for sure. - So, I mean, he's but it seems that a lot of these artifacts are coming from the okay, in this northern And I've read several papers about this. Or, well, actually this to put the caveat here. A lot of these papers The Richat is in Mauritania, France is doing the majority of the research in this region, the majority of the papers So I had a French archeologist - Excellent. Okay. - So... - So any errors, those are on him. - Any errors, those are on her. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just to clarify that. And I do wonder, to be generous to people sometimes I do wonder if there is just a language if I'm being generous. - Could be. Could be. The language barrier - No, no. Exactly. But there are several French and they are available to - Population of France: several. - Yeah. Several French people. So it is possible to get the information, even published in French. But one thing that's really interesting and might be a bit of a bummer for the Atlantian people, you can see when you look and when you look at this map too, there's clearly still water moving in and around the landscape. And it has been. Like, it's not like it Sometimes even in the Sahara, they get precipitation, they get water. Apparently though the interior of the ring is almost and animals, according because it is particularly - Wow. - And they find a lot of in the outer rings, just because humans and It's kind of a thing we need. - Yeah. That's important. - Yeah. - Yeah. I definitely see that. You know, I think that to look at because you can and, like you said, you know, even though the Sahara is a And I think that especially, when there was more rain in this region, which I would imagine is probably when more of these artifacts date to, I'd imagine they probably, you know, will date back to the or at least around then, this would be a great place to be. Again, like, you know, by a lot of open desert. And so being in a place that to trap moisture, but also and channels that fresh will not only provide fresh water, but also all the things that come with it. You know, plants and, you know, animals and things like that. And not only with that middle part, it's interesting that it But also, you know, if hunting and gathering I probably wouldn't go through the effort of crossing all of those and, you know, rough of the structure that just doesn't have You know, I'd stay on the outside. - Yeah. Yeah. You might, you know, you to see what's over there, but as soon as you realize, where there's no water and no animals. - Yeah. - You're probably gonna Be like, okay, I'm going where there's things I can - And shade too. I mean, you know, it would And just looking at, like, those kind of canyon of the structure look like And so, you know, it's almost that we'd see in the American Southwest where a lot of, you know, in very flat desert canyons and gullies and things like that. Just because A, it's a has settled and B, it does have, you know, sort of shade and some shelter. - The main thing I think that he found in his early excavations, and I should also shout out Is it Vernet? Vernot? Another guy who has a whole blog all about the archeology of It'll be in the description. All sources will be in the description. So you can Google debunk me for yourself, as the Milo Rossi fans. - You heard the man. Get Google debunking. - Get Google debunking on me right now. But remember, it's not my fault. It's the French archeologist's fault. - As always, blame the French. - Yeah. But yeah, they're finding a lot of what they're calling galets amenages. Galets amenages. These are really, really You can see in the folder there, we've got some pictures of - Yeah. - And then some, like, you what's actually being found. They are very rough. - Yeah. - That's crazy. Yeah. I don't even think, at first glance, I would identify those as tools. That's crazy. I would look right past that. - Yes, exactly. - You'd look right past it. If you look at the fourth image where it shows lots of different rocks, all with the drawing, when I was chatting to these archeologists that oldest archeological site in the world. I was asking them, like, how the hell are you identifying And obviously they've got an eye for it, but you've gotta think, you a lot of these rocks, sorry, they're all worked on one side. Someone is going along and taking, like, chip after chip after chip after chip in a line across this rock. So, you know, you could where a rock is being hit - Yeah. maybe it rolled down a hill and by chance it got hit on But when you find 10 rocks like that, 20 rocks like that. - 100 rocks like that, all worked in that same logical fashion, what are the odds of in the same spot, time That's basically how they determine they have a really versus just a random rock. - Wow. That's crazy. That is a lot of those. And it's interesting kind of looking at the variation and complexity of them. Like, some of them have and sharpening with a lot But there's other ones that look like they've just been struck, like, you know, with two, like, large flakes coming off. - Yeah. Yeah. One thing that's interesting with these, on the one hand, you are making you could call it, this worked pebble, but you're also getting the flake, right? And so what were these to do at that moment in time? Were they after a chopper? Were they after the flake? - [Milo] Yeah. Yeah. Is this even the tool? You know, it's interesting to wonder about that. be the byproduct. You know, they could have been getting just a thin blade, you know? - Yeah, yeah. Exactly. - So these are very difficult to date. As you can see, these which is always a challenge to date. But probably the youngest I would imagine these tools would be - Wow. - And potentially up to 3 million easily. - So these, do you have any sort of idea, or is there any research you know, human ancestor created these? - That's an interesting question. So one of the challenges in West Africa is that there are not many human remains. In fact, I don't think or Archaic human remains - Wow. - They all seem to be found But we know from the - Yeah. Yeah. - It's just for some reason, maybe it's the conditions, maybe the fluctuation of like - Oh, rotting out bones. - Because that would've been through quite a few humid periods then. - Yeah. - The only one that's in the Sahara is And that's a very old human fossil. Like over 4 million years. Probably wasn't them making these tools. I even have the skulls This isn't Sahelanthropus, - Oh, look at that. - I would imagine a hominin for these, maybe some sort But it could also be like you know, we're finding the more we study. - I'm looking at this fifth slide now with some of these points. These look like they're Are these different than the points that are shown in the fourth slide? - Yeah. Yeah. So now we've moved forward in time to what is called the Acheulean period. - Oh yeah, I know that one. - Oh, yeah. - These tools, humans were using these for, like, over a million years. It's by far and away our we've ever come up with, - Yep. It's not the pencil, it's it's this rock. - It's a rock. - Yeah. This pointy rock in hand, this was the tool that We've been making them for so long. You can see at this point, if you compare it to the earlier choppers, we've worked out how to for a start, which says, you know, it's probably functional. It is probably functional, but it does raise the question and we're talking probably anywhere from a million and a half years ago down to 500,000 years ago, for this, did hominins, a Homo erectus, did they have an appreciation What's going on in their brain? You can't call it art, but is it, like, the is an appreciation of, - Wow. That's a really I know that's something that is, you know, debated quite a lot is, you And what could be constituted as art? But, you know, I think the you know, like, would there to have something that symmetrical? Does it make sense to make Are you only using one side of it? They kind of look, some of which could make sense having, you know, a symmetrical design to it. Or is that something that was done just because it scratched that little itch in our brain, you know? - Yeah. I think it's I'm sure there is a functional reason why a tool should be this shape in the same way it works There's gotta be, you know, there's gotta be some functional benefit to it coming to a point. And others, they're almost doing more as like giant choppers, almost like a modern ax would be. - Yeah. to create one big, like, cutting surface. - Yeah, that middle row and some of the ones on the like, you know, an ax head. - Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So there's gotta be a But again, you can't help but wonder. - They're beautiful. They're really amazing. I really like that one on with the stripes on it. I don't know where it's from, - These all from the Richat. Oh, sorry, sorry. Yeah. Yeah. - No, I saw something that was found and it was made out of some sedimentary rock, and it had like a trilobite And like, that's another where it's like, you know, I assume they left it Like, they probably broke and kind of sculpted, you know, the lithic around the fossil, which is pretty interesting, you know? - Yeah. You start to get... I know exactly what you're talking about. I'm sure it's appearing - [Milo] It is. - It's so hard to imagine that they didn't do that deliberately and didn't have an appreciation So, I'm not saying Homo erectus made art or anything like that, but did they have, like, a I think so. I think we're starting in our brains at this time. Lemme see. that's something that to see in the same way, just because what we that's so complex now. Hey, look at that guy. So this is probably the kind of the chap that's making these. This is the Turkana Boy, - Hey, I know that guy. - Yeah. He lived probably after Homo habilis. And you can see in that - Yeah. That's a big - Brain size. Yeah. So with that is there some appreciation I think so. I think so. - Again, like, I'm gonna You can probably already but you will not believe how many of these freaking things - I know. I've been trying It looks very interesting. - Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of these things. All right, last one. Arrowheads. - [Stefan] I'm sure you can see the one that I'm talking about. - [Milo] Those are beautiful. - Yeah. These are called Aterian points. By the time we're making these, we're talking 150,000 years ago, up until, you know, 20,000 It's difficult to date, but this is modern humans. This is anatomically You can see there, I don't know, no, these probably are not Sorry, these are probably But you can clearly see They've got that little knob at the end. There's no other way to say it. I don't know the technical terms. They've got a little knob. What's cool about these Aterian points is that they're kind of associated with out of Africa a little bit, or at least our very earliest I did a video on the Paleolithic in India, and they have them as far away as India maybe about 100,000 years ago. - Wow. That's crazy. - We've sort of got the whole from the very earliest through to like Homo erectus down to modern humans expanding on a huge geographical area with hafted stone points that are much more sophisticated. Let's look at the map. Let's look at the map to see - [Milo] Holy shit! - This is how many for the Paleolithic they have - Wow. I was like, I'll count them quickly just before you hop on screen. And then I was like, oh, - [Milo] Good choice. - [Stefan] Yeah. - And the thing that's really interesting, you know, about this, bringing it back to kind of around this site, is not only is there extensive at this site that is not talked about, but it is extensive archeological history that covers literally more than a million years of human history. Like, it's not just like, oh, we found a few things from a long time ago and, like, there's nothing recent. So, like, we don't know. And it's just, all this... It's like, no, no, no. We have, like, a chronology of this site. Like, there is evidence and covers a really long time span. It's all right there. - Yeah. Millions and millions of years, humans have been living Now I might ask myself, how come hundreds of Paleolithic and yet nothing from this You know, I might be - Whoa, whoa, you're thinking Take it down a notch. - Yeah. And there always has to be how come all these sites survived, but Atlantis never survived? - Yeah. Yeah. - We have million-year-old hand axes, but nothing from what was, for many years, the most advanced civilization - Yeah, yeah. None of that stuff survived. You're asking too much. We just haven't found it yet, you know? - Yeah, exactly. That's our trawl through the paleolithic. I wanna take a brief look at rock art, if that's okay. - But now we're sort of getting into the African Humid Period, though. - This is the Humid Period, looking at it. Whoa. I just saw the carved stone elephant out of a rock. Look at that. - That's not from the Richat, but this is just examples of the culture we're talking about. But yeah, there's like in the Sahara. - It's kind of crazy. Do you mind rattling off for us quickly, why is the Sahara going dry Do you remember that from your video? That would be because of So that has to do with where as it spins, and it wobbles on a cycle of about 20,000 years. So it'll kind of, the North Pole will tilt And as that tilt happens, it affects what part of the during the perihelion, that the Earth orbits the Sun. So during the African Humid Period, the perihelion occurred when, I think the southern you know, closest to the Sun. And now that that cycle has changed and the Earth has tilted when the Sun is kind of focusing a blast. Oh, no. Vice versa. The Sun is now blasting the during the perihelion, where during the African Humid Period, it was blasting on the Sahara area in the Northern Hemisphere. And because of that, it which created monsoon seasons that would sweep over the continent. So even though a lot the Sahara Desert, it was creating a So the land would heat up a bunch and the ocean would evaporate and make a bunch of moisture. And then as the seasons would change, it would cause huge and inundate most of, in monsoonal rains. - Interesting. - Yeah. So that still Obviously the Earth hasn't - Yep. Yeah, so it's on cycles. I believe that African Humid about once every 20,000 years, I think since the start So for over, you know, a million and a half years, I think that there's or at least around there. I think that, at the very least, I remember reading you know, 800 African Humid Periods or something like that estimated. So it is a cycle that, you know, for many hundreds of as long as we've lived. - As we finish with the map, let's start with the map as well. These are all the sites where rock art has been recorded around the Adrar Plateau. There's quite a lot, as you can see. This isn't just one site - [Milo] Yeah. - And then, do you see the you might have to hit - Richat Elephant, yes. Wow. That elephant is, he's packing. - Oh yeah. He's packing. He's got a bird on his tusk. You know, he's living life. He's living life large. Man, wish I could be that elephant. - Yeah. Yeah. Kinda showing off a little bit, actually. - Yeah, really. Cool it there, big guy. - So this elephant comes from the inside of the Richat. You can see there's a with a spear and a shield, maybe. The alternative history crowd, the pseudo-archeology crowd, they do love this image because apparently Plato and they're like, well, here's an elephant in what we think is Atlantis. - Hey. You know... - And it is a cool-ass I'm not gonna deny them that. - It is, but, you know, I think the really funny thing is, looking at the evidence that they give versus the evidence that that they ignore. You know, like, okay, he mentioned elephants and How about the fact that they were supposed to be more technologically Like, where's the evidence for that? I don't really give a shit You know, like it's Africa. And it was rainy, of course there was elephants. Like, are you kidding me? Yeah, exactly, you know? - All this rock art has survived showing what we would expect. You know, first there's animals and scenes of humans hunting animals. And then as the Neolithic develops and people develop agricultural then we get pictures of cows and people herding them - Exactly. in the real timeline is what we have. - Yep. you know, images of life in Atlantis anywhere - Hey, there's that one guy with a spear. - One guy with a spear. Yeah. Yeah. - That's pretty good. That seems like Atlantis to me. - Pretty advanced. Yeah. - Very. - Yeah, if the definition of advanced was Neolithic village then it's like, okay, Yeah. That did exist. maybe that's where we're wrong. Maybe they are saying that it was just a really and we're the ones who are blowing it out of proportion. - Yeah, yeah. Perhaps, perhaps. Yeah. - It is. Man, it's funny. And, you know, again, the real sort of takeaway here is the fact that this conspiracy and beating or I guess dead elephant as it were, is something that really takes away from the actual archeology of, not only the Richat Structure, but of the Sahara and Africa as a whole. You know, I mean, it's of the alternative history how there's been no, you know, there's been not enough and that's a huge, you know, injustice, which I fully agree with. I think it needs to be I think many parts of of largely left behind and need to have more but then they just make stuff up. They don't talk about any that has happened there. They don't talk about the at these sites and what it actually means, and the evidence that we truly have. Instead, they start with conclusion and, you know, we'll to find literally anything to support it, even if that is one - Yeah. Yeah. It is annoying to focus so heavily on this carving of an elephant, albeit a very cool one, and to ignore the entire, like, cultural tradition of these artworks stretching And, like, some of these are, like, genuinely incredible pieces of art. Like, I'm looking at what I think maybe you're gonna It's like a zoomed in shot of an elephant. - [Milo] That carved elephant. It's magnificent. It's beautiful, - You know, to focus on just the one because it's an elephant and Plato mentioned elephants, and to ignore this whole, that stretches across the Sahara is just, it's silly. It's silly. It is. And it's unfortunate with both the art and is it's a whole timeline. Like, the lithics and They show the rise of the green Sahara. They show, you know, how people hunted the natural It gives us a window into what the animals And then it shows us as you know, get smaller and smaller and people were forced into, you know, there's carvings of cattle and Like, it really tells a story. Like, the full story is there and it's really frustrating and, you know, like, add to the story and, you know, be able to, you know, continue the interpretations that we have and really flesh it out further. But instead try and and pretend that they have their own story for which there's no evidence. - Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like the, because Atlantis has to this information, they have to discard it, in a way, because- - It just doesn't fit, you know, with their timeline of how - Yeah. And so the only thing they have to go off is vague and, you know, the - Yeah. It really is. And it's a shame because so to these theories are people who are genuinely interested and things like that. And there is so much great that they are not finding because there's people who make that is more preying on people's interests than actually being dedicated and the things that they'd - Yeah. Yeah. This is a great time, I'll probably have to put this caveat at the start of the video and if it's possible to take it will be taken the wrong way. But I'm 100% sure me and Milo here, we're not hating on the random person who is interested in Atlantis, they didn't have an blah, blah, blah. Like, of course, we also think and amazing and, you know, and professional lives So of course we love it. This is more directed at, you know, the whole economy of like blah, blah, blah, who of money talking about this stuff and not giving people who are interested the context that these - Completely. Completely. Well said. Well said. - Yeah. anyone listening who has to just continue digging on it, continue doing, you know, research on it. I think that a lot of the of these theories that are about doing your own research And I encourage doing your own research, but doing your own research you know, the same guy you know, what he already believes. And, you know, look at all the evidence, look at all of the different sites, and look at the immense amount of research that's been done there. And you can draw your own - I do have to say, there is like a couple of Google Earth screenshots to finish on a positive for They are very, very good And that is a legitimate - Totally. Yeah. using Google Earth. The thing is, for this you know, if the idea is that Atlantis was swept then these have to post-date Atlantis. So these are, you know, cool things to have seen from Google Earth for sure, and shout out to the but there's no logical way If you hit refresh on - And if the flood did wash away Atlantis, why didn't it wash away any - Well, quite, quite, yes. So these are... You can see one of them is - [Milo] Wow. Yep. That - [Stefan] I would bet these are animal enclosures, personally. - Yep. particularly on the left one, you have like a round structure, which is maybe a house, and then the entrance to the And as a triangle, I think towards that opening. - That's just my hunch. Of course, I've never been there. My hunch is that these are by the local people. - Yeah. And then that is That second one, are you kidding me? - [Stefan] What? The Richat enclosure? One that I called- - [Stefan] Richat enclosure? - I mean, I don't know what it is. It's hard to get a scale. And there's clearly something - [Milo] Yeah. You know, maybe it's a wall, like a low stone wall to keep things in. - [Stefan] I think this is a wall. - Like an animal enclosure. But like, there's nothing around it. Like, there's no context to any of these. And there's no artifacts. Like, I fully believe that people are finding things there. And they very well may It's very possible that I'm not diminishing that, but I don't think that they're Atlantis, - According to Google Earth, this thing is 72 meters across. So it's quite a large enclosure. How many feet is that? I have no idea. Americans, you have to - 72 meters to feet. 236 feet. That's pretty big. - It's a big enclosure. These things aren't small. But I think what's that the Richat is a but it's not devoid of human life. There were trade networks throughout every human including the Medieval Period, And there's gonna be something there. There's gonna be enclosures there. But I just have to mention it because I just know if I of the Richat, people are gonna be, like, you didn't mention these three enclosures. - Wow. Grasping at straws. - It's a little bit grasping at straws. Yeah, yeah. - Let me show you one last - [Milo] Let's do it. - Because all of that is but maybe, maybe we're because we are the liars, okay? We're lying. We're funded. - Dude, you weren't supposed to say that- - And we're keeping this- - Information from you. I know, I know. I'm pulling back the curtains. - Man. Yeah. The Smithsonian, National the CDC, actually, is - So these screenshots these are from a YouTube I haven't seen all of her videos, but I suspect you might like her because she was traveling And you're a biker yourself, I believe. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - I'm more of a moped guy, personally. That's more my speed. - Rock on. - Yeah. I'm more of a Vespa. Vespa in my flip flops, but... Shout out to her. I don't know much about Itchy Boots, but I was looking for and she went there in her motorbike. She did have an accident in So if you're watching this, Itchy Boots, I hope you are recovering okay. - Yeah. Get well soon. Ride safe. But she was vlogging this and went to the Richat. And as you can see there, there's a screenshot of from the video. This is the village You can see the Richat sort of peeking up behind him there, I believe. These are the people that day in, day out. These aren't archeologists just And he has what is dare I say, shop. And you can see from this screenshot what kind of artifacts he has. - [Milo] Wow. Well, I mean that has all the hallmarks of a highly-advanced - [Stefan] Yeah. - Hundreds and hundreds of- - Paleolithic artifacts. - Pointy rocks. There is some other stuff in the video. There's like a nice vase, other stuff that we might expect from the green Humid Period. Maybe those are even those stone points there. That's a possibility. But if you are of the mind that archeologists are because we're not looking for it, or we're not being funded to look for it, and blah, blah, blah, blah, I would like you to consider how little the guy in this village cares about any of this, right? Like, this guy is just living there. This is where him and for centuries, for millennia. And he's just talking to people as they're coming to visit the Richat. And what does he have to show you? Paleolithic stone tools. - Yep. - Okay. Paleolithic stone tools. - You would think that someone, you would think that would have ruins and relics that are literally impossible to miss. - Yeah. the archeologists are being to keep you in the dark, that lived there would at least of them, unless they were and there was no Atlantis there. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Maybe he's being... No, I think what happened, destroyed all the evidence they got every pot sherd out of the dirt, filtered it, and then they and then they placed all these artifacts. - Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. - Trust me, we have that much power. - Yeah, that's exactly the kind of thing an archeologist would do. Yeah. - Yep. - That's great. I mean that, honestly, I'm because that's an to, you know, the thing it always turns to whenever people get backed into a corner with actual evidence is, well, they're out to get or they're being paid off Which is, like, that's Like, why don't you actually support what you're saying? How about that? - But this is a great retort to that where it's like, no, If there was any Atlantis, they'd be the ones finding because it's not there. - Yeah. This guy is there, like, this guy's in the Richat And he hasn't found it, guys. He just hasn't found it. But he's found plenty of archeology. - Yeah. Yeah. plenty of archeology. It's just not of Atlantis. It just isn't. All right, well, that's all I know about the archeology of the Richat. I don't know if you've - I don't know, man. - Dude, it's so hard for me to say Milo 'cause I'm so used to saying Milo. It's like my tongue struggles every time. - Yeah. - Thanks, Milo. It's been good hanging out with you. - Yeah. - Well... - Yep. Yeah. Well, I'm glad you're I'm excited to see when it all comes out. And for any of Stefan's viewers, I'm Milo Rossi, come check me out. YouTube, Miniminuteman. And for any of my viewers subscribe to Stefan. He makes great stuff.