-[Titus] I think I may go -[Peter] Okay. -And then see if I can bend it And then come over to that one, -You've done this a few times, Titus? We didn't have TV growing up so... -This is what we did for our spare time. -And I still do it for fun. I'm gonna see if [branches rustling] -Geez. [branches rustling] Trying to get to this other tree. [Peter laughing] I think I'm gonna ride this one down. [branches cracking] [both giggling] [slap] -Titus... I think you've got some stories. -Yeah. [Peter] How long have you been out here? [Titus] I've been on this farm, -Did you grow up like this? -Well, we did grow up We never had electric heat or anything. But uh... Like, my parents have computers, I just felt like God was calling -Oh. So I don't have I do have running water and it runs through the creek too. [Peter laughing] -How much land are you living on here? -I've got 50 acres. About 20 is open like pasture and about 30 is woods. -Y'all can come inside. I'm single and I'm busy working outside -You're a bachelor? -Yeah, definitely. My buddy is staying with me too and he's got some of his Okay, so you do a lot of canning? -Yeah, I do some canning, yeah. This is a wood cook stove here. Which during the summertime Since it would get too hot in here. -So you have no electricity in here? Which it is wired for. The electric was on when I bought it but I've been here, and I have not had any electricity. -So why do you choose for no electricity? -Well, it gives me, like, a freedom of a nine to five job. I don't have an internet bill. I don't have all these bills and so I can just work a small amount. Whatever I want to work -Okay, what are you doing for work? -Oh cool. How much money do you think -Um, I guess probably my two main bills would be dog food. And my phone bill, -Land line, no cell phone? It's crazy, I didn't want the internet They wouldn't give me So I'm paying for internet So I have a land line phone And then dog food, I probably spend Things like salt, fruit, and things like that. Probably spend like $30 -So 90, 20, and 30? -So $140 a month is your expenditures? I always dreamed of having and the dream finally came true. -You love it? I wake up in the morning and a green hill on that side, and I just have my own -[Peter] So no car? -You get around with carriage? -So you're almost living an Amish lifestyle? -But you're not at all? -No, I'm not a member, no. I'm not a member of the Amish church Want some banana peels? Nothing goes to waste. This is Greatheart. -Greatheart? -That looks bad, Titus. -Having that in the barn. -You don't seem like you're unhappy, so... I sometimes take up hay, -And I'll loop this around and snap it. -But this is the way [both giggling] -Titus, let me give you this -All right. [Titus] Wait... here we go. Got it. [grunts] -Am I holding it right? Okay. -Yeah, I got some hay up here. First cutting of hay. -You were telling me off-camera you sleep up there Yeah, sometimes it gets really hot in the hay and it's nice. There's Peter down there. My friend Isaac was staying with me And he said sleeping on these hay bales is an eco-friendly, green, [giggling] And it smells good to top it off. [both laughing] Go out the front and I'll show you -All right. Titus, you're a character. [both giggling] All right, what's Titus got for us here? You gonna jump out? -I'll show you the funnest way [grunts] [thud] [both giggling] There's some potatoes. -Oh, nice. -These are organic potatoes. -Okay so-- -You don't use any chemicals, huh? I just spread manure from the horses here, and then waited a while, -So you're getting -I was like 13, 14 years old, shoeing some horses and... I said, &quot;Uh...&quot; They asked me, &quot;Do you like pop?&quot; They're like, I said, &quot;No.&quot; They said, &quot;You wanna try it?&quot; So I tried one and that was enough I didn't like it. -It was what, one Coca-Cola? -It was like an Orange Crush. -You hated it? And my dad, he helped build a plant and he said if they had a spill It would eat away So if it does that to concrete, [cutting weeds] Kind of like golfing except for you hit the ball every time. [chuckles] Gonna grab a few... -So this is for supper? Yep. -Titus, I know there are but you don't worry about 'em at all, huh? -I just pick 'em off if they get on me. Here's some purple onions. We're gonna cook those. [peeling onion] [stream trickling] -This is your whole Yeah, I wash produce -So you set this little barrier up here just to let the right amount of water in? -Yeah, my buddy Isaac did. I usually take a bath in there. -You take a bath up there? -And so that acts -Yeah, it's got some sand, -So, having this -Oh, yeah. -You gotta have this for this lifestyle? -Having plenty of water, I don't it's just right here. [stream trickling] [chopping] [Peter] Do you ever -I've gotten colds, I've gotten flus. Like the past year Like not even a cold, My thought is eat lots of healthy food, breathe deep of fresh air, trust in God, get your exercise, and do things that So then your immune system fight off whatever virus is out there. [chopping] -Is this one of your classic meals? That's red potatoes, And then I'll put a little bit of and we'll put some water in there, and then we'll put it on the stove, and then later today, -Yeah, Titus. And it's got the Titus touch. [Titus giggles] -From the source. -We'll put a little bit more wood in here. Some of this cedar that we cut earlier. -How far away are your parents? -Okay. -And you like going over there to visit? This is Truth here. She's being affectionate. [chuckles] -When you go to your parent's -'Cause they have electricity, right? -Is there a temptation in that? -No, I don't really... And enjoy hanging out with my parents but as far as the electricity or whatever, I guess probably Like, living without electricity A refrigerator is just so handy. But I can put stuff in the creek Like if I have beans left over in a pot in the creek During the wintertime I keep the door shut and that's basically like -Yep. -No GMO, no herbicides, -Not Monsanto out here? -No Monsanto, not for me. There are neighbors that have Roundup Ready corn and soybeans. From what I've heard, they have They spliced a gene into it So it's just good for one season. -Why, so you have to buy more? If you plant this stuff If you were to spray it But the Monsanto seed, they've got corn and soybeans So you can plant them in your field and then that kills -So that's just easier to farm? -Then with your garden -Yeah, pull weeds, or hoe 'em, or like that cultivator You take that through your rows and it kills the weeds [horse chewing corn] Kind of a peaceful sound. -It is, I like it. -It's sort of therapeutic, huh? -It's like raking sand or something. -Yeah. [horse chewing] [Titus whistling] [Titus to horse] If I'm at peace and I'm right with God, I have his peace in my heart, then the horses are gonna have it too. -They feel your energy completely? It's just like attitude there's some people that are cheerful, they're positive, and you feel like, &quot;I want to spend time with that person.&quot; And there's other people that &quot;Man, let's get out of here.&quot; Like, I want to be polite You know? And I believe animals are the same. If you have God's peace the animals will want They'll want to be with you. [Titus] You can ride shotgun. -So where we going, Titus? -We are gonna go to a... Yeah, that's broken, -Okay. -An Amish friend of mine -Amish friend? -Ruben Troyer, -Oh. -But it's amazing the workmanship and a hook in the other. [clicks and kisses] [Peter] Your dogs coming too? -Yeah, the old one there, He's kinda slow and getting old. He may not go the whole way -[Peter] Ah, that's a nice little breeze. -How good does that feel? -And do the horses -They like working. [Titus] There's times when we may or not doing anything there's a sense of satisfaction. You think a job well done, you know? I think it's the same with a horse. They plow that field there, later they get to eat it Or it's hot and sweaty, -That's hard work -But when the snow flies they've got -Do you have a girlfriend? -Do you want a girlfriend? -You do? It's gonna have to be the right -Definitely. -Because you're not -No, I just don't like being in cities. Like there's been times and I've gone for that but as soon as I can [hooves clopping] [machine approaching] -He likes you, huh, Titus? -[Peter] Beautiful countryside out here. -So do you feel like Living out here, is there any one -Uh no, I feel like the people that are They're missing out -I mean it does look like in the sense that you're and you're connected with nature. But to do it, I wouldn't be able to hack it out. I mean if I had to, I would, I could. But you gotta work. -Yeah, but you have to work either way. Because if you have then you have to work. Most people have to to make sure they have -Yeah. -And they're working Or they're at a desk like this and then later So you're gonna work either way Yeah, it takes me longer or take me longer to do but I'm working at home in -You want to raise kids out here? I think the only thing I'm missing really and children, they'd enjoy it. -Maybe there's a fine woman that wants to meet up with Titus one day. -I don't know. -How do people get in touch with you? Or you don't want Ah, you can put my phone I'll not do address but I would do phone. -Yeah, that's fine. -But if somebody calls -'Cause it's a landline phone. -And so I'm not there I have my phone I've got an Amish neighbor and we both use the phone. -Your Amish neighbor -Yes, so you just leave a message This is a Mennonite family. -So they have power? -They do, yes. Little fella mowing the lawn. -You know these guys? [Titus] Whoa. Whoa. Hey. [Peter] Oh, beautiful. [Peter chuckles] [Peter] What do you learn from animals? [Titus] Well.. I can answer that question with a story. [kisses] So... I was-- I got Greatheart back in like 2012 and so he had never plowed before. and I was just learning to plow. So I wasn't good at it, and in order to plow and one horse and the other has to walk up on the land. -Sure. So as I was plowing they were getting-- The horse that-- he kept getting out and I was getting so frustrated, and I was trying to make him walk straight -Okay. -I was all by myself and so I started and just like whipping them. Just without mercy. And then I felt-- I felt the Holy Spirit &quot;Titus, if you were married, you would be -Oh. -And I said, &quot;Please forgive me, And then I felt God telling me, &quot;Titus, you get out of line, you don't always walk &quot;How do you think it makes me feel in the right path I said, &quot;Wow, that's right.&quot; So I asked God, &quot;Please forgive me.&quot; So horses have You know? You can't expect them to always do maybe they don't understand. They've not done it before. They don't understand So you learn to be patient. You learn to take your time to teach them and then if you're willing then they're willing -When you say God, Walk me through that. What is that? It just naturally happens What do you mean by that? -Well, like when I was saying or the Holy Spirit speaking to me, I didn't hear like an audible voice but it's this very strong -Okay. Because naturally in that situation and all my thoughts were just frustration -Yeah. -And then there's this reasoning with me saying, &quot;Titus, you're being &quot;You need to take a step back.&quot; -So how... Well I know the answer already but spirituality is -Definitely, definitely. -You wouldn't be able -I wouldn't be at peace. Like I would be afraid. I would be afraid that and a droughts gonna come or... -Okay. Some country's gonna attack or... Which those things could happen but I'm at peace now knowing that cares about me -So you... What's going on in society, or are you? -I hear people talk about Russia taking over Ukraine, and I am interested to know Um, but there comes a point where you hear -Mm-hmm. and you can do nothing at all to stop it. So... why constantly You know, negative information If you're constantly giving yourself it'll wear you down, It'll make you sick. But there's so much positive, This cool breeze that God made You know, the food that he gives us This clean air we breathe. There's so much positive if we'll thank God it'll change our mental outlook and then if we are healthy it will also help us -You feel the connection? You know, we could We could worry about We could worry about The Bible says that So we borrowed from China one day we'll be China's servant. That could happen. But why should I worry about that Just trust God one day at a time, and just live life. [Titus] This is one of my favorite places 'cause there's all these big trees. It's been a long time So it's really big trees and there's and then there's a spring. There's spring water that comes down and just take a drink right along here. -Okay. So a hot day like this, it sort of -Yeah, probably. Maybe more than that, [hooves clopping] [Titus] This is Ruben Troyer. He does custom saddles and leather work. He's a skilled craftsman. For training horses. [Peter] Training Tituses? [giggling] [both giggling] [Peter] This is one of [Ruben] Yep. -Yep. Because not supposed to show and how you're working with it. -Yes, I have... I guess I've been very blessed -And how long have you had that? -Since 1997. I've lived longer with this [chuckles] ...and accepting that the lord -Okay. -Just literally accepting that We can accept and still go on with what we've got. [Peter] So you've been able and you have a saddle shop here, right? -Yes. Saddle shop, We're overloaded, extremely busy. If I could find the right person that had the capability of doing -Mm-hmm. -I would probably -It's hard to find workers right now? -Sometimes you wonder. -If we have leadership? Sometimes it appears like we have none. -And you Amish out here, for the most part. -For the most part, yeah. -So what's going on with the government doesn't really bother you -Not necessarily, no. [Titus] At this point anyway it's not. I could see a point coming where it will. If things keep going eventually there's gonna be Where the Amish, or plain people, or whoever wants to stay is gonna be probably harshly tested. [Peter] You think -As of today, not really maybe. -But eventually I could see it coming With this COVID coming in but it kinda backed-off. Not being a threat anymore -Mm-hmm. [Titus] I think we have Like in Romania or China. A person could have a Bible, but then when Communism came over, It was a crime to preach in the open. It was a crime to meet The government felt like Christians, first and foremost, to be only to the government. And so, uh... You know, we see Socialism and Socialism becomes Communism. [Peter] You feel that, -Yes, there is. -You're not watching TV, right? No, thankfully not. [laughs] -So how do you feel it then? Like you just hear it with the stories, -That and you can tell Since this COVID moved in everybody just gets Just kind of nasty attitude to deal with. -You notice that -Oh yes, everybody gets -Still even though it's-- But there's still... It has happened You still know that eventually something different's [mower blades clanking] [Peter] So all your kids -Ah, he's just started. He's pretty proud -Does it make you feel proud [Ruben] Yeah, I'm happy that he's able to, with those mowers you're still on the edge You're like, &quot;Ah, what is he doing now?&quot;. -Right. -So... but it's kind of a thing where you kinda drill safety and then loosen the reigns a little bit and kinda [Peter] This is all [Ruben] Family business, yes. -And all your employees are behind me, -But they're making all of these? -And why are the Amish so good -I would say that part of it mentality, focus. -That's how you were raised, right? -Okay, and so you raise your kid the same? [Titus] It says, &quot;Hand crafted by [Peter] You made this for who? -My youngest boy. -Oh wow, he must have been so happy [Ruben chuckles] -And your right arm, you figured out -Oh, we have a few little issues -There was some battles with it? -I did, I struggled -But you wouldn't be doing all this today -Oh, no... No. [hooves clopping] [Titus] I had broken both my feet and the doctors They said that I would probably and that I would have -Okay. -And so I got really, really depressed. It was like I wanted to work, but if I would work and be productive and then I wouldn't have energy. -And so I really struggled with that. I'm like 21 years but I'm walking like I'm a 90-year-old man. Like I almost need a walker and the doctors have And I just felt like And so I planned to ride my horse Where there's a cliff, saying my goodbye to my horse, -Really? -And then I wouldn't have to I wasn't planning to I didn't tell anybody what I was gonna do. That is what I was planning to do. And then if it hadn't been for Jesus' intervention in my life I woulda just done it. One of the things &quot;Titus, if you would do that And that changed the focus life is too hard for me to go on to how would this decision... -Okay. And so it changed my focus. And so... And then I prayed, Am I gonna be healed to where Or not? Because I need to know. And the lord told me, So today there are times when I struggle -Yeah. -But for the most part For the most part I'm able to work hard or able to go. So that was really and to the viewers that are watching this if you're thinking about ending your life don't do it. -There's something better, there's hope. -Go to your father and have him in prayer and Jesus will make -Yeah. [Titus] Whoa. Easy. [horse and buggy passes] [Peter] Old Order Amish -That's Mennonite. -How do you know? -By the design of the buggy. The Mennonites have a square box. -Okay. -And they have rubber tires, and they have -Amish won't do the orange triangle? And the Amish buggies, it goes like this at the bottom. -Yep. -And they have steel wheels. So if that was an Amish buggy -I had no idea Kentucky I came from Eastern Kentucky, That's like really deep Appalachia. Then down here is more rolling hills.. We're sort of on -Yes. -Totally different feel somber country [Titus] Spider just caught a fly. That's one less fly -You're in an alliance with the spiders? -You guys team up, they help out? [Titus] This is one of -So Ruben's kids go here? There's about 12 children -Twelve kids, all ages, right? -This is the parking -Yes, during rainy weather and things They're storing some firewood Often times they walk That's like a three mile walk. Six miles a day. -Three miles? -Wow, so they legitimately can say -[giggling] Yeah. [Peter] Guys, it's quite surreal out here, So peaceful. So removed. So wholesome. I get it, Titus. I'm not saying I can live it, It's definitely more -I'm really blessed [birds chirping] [Titus softly] Back. This is Standfast, and he and I have a lot of fun with him. So I'll show you [horse snorts] [Titus] Ooh. Ooh. Ooh... ho. -Smooth. And then I'll show you, for me, [thud] [Peter giggling] [Peter] She just cools herself down, huh? My wife will love this. What's up? [splashing] -[Peter] Ah, you're so sweet. [Titus giggling] [Titus singing gospel] Our broken-hearted bow down with care I met a savior and I knew him there And he filled that longing I searched for him But I knew not what I longed for I longed for him But I knew not what I longed for Till I met Jesus I knew that I would search no more He filled that longing down in my soul [stream flowing] [Titus] This is milkweed right here. I'm trying to let it grow up 'cause the monarch butterfly, that the monarch butterfly will feed on. -Mm-hmm. Like I remember when I was little Every summer I 'member seeing monarchs and now they're going extinct. So I'm trying to leave these -[Peter] Home made scarecrow? -Does this work? -I tried it. I had a straw hat on this one 'Cause the crows So they stayed away for about a half day. The other one, and I only wear and they're not around So that one didn't work at all. And this worked for half a day. The crows, they want And when it's about this tall they'll come and pull it out -Is that a tick? -Yes, that's a tick. That is a tick. -So those are -My understanding is and the ones that have a dot on the back and the other ticks don't So this one doesn't have [Titus] We have kind of like [Peter] Drive-thru fast food, -Yep. -You can just drive by, grab it, and go. So I don't have Like no driver's license, And then God called me And I was like, &quot;Okay, Father in heaven, if you want me to go, So I started walking from here and... Like from here to Nashville, it's about three hours. -Okay. And I got there in three and a half hours. -Just putting the thumb out? -So hitchhiking is still alive for you? -Definitely. -One time I was going to Tennessee, and a state trooper stopped, and I told him where I'm going. And he's like, &quot;So... do you have any And I was like, He's like, I was sitting there and I was like, He didn't tell me So I'm riding along and I was like, &quot;What's going on?&quot; And then he's like, He said, &quot;So, I'm talking you but I radioed ahead to tell my buddies pick you up and give you a ride.&quot; And I was like, So then he drops me off at this exit and I was standing And then this city police shows up He said, &quot;Hitchhiking is illegal And I thought, &quot;Oh no, if I say no If I say &quot;No, I'm not hitchhiking.&quot; but if I say yes So the Holy Spirit I said, &quot;Officer, I am prepared to walk He asked the same question twice He looked me up and down and he's like, &quot;I could take you in &quot;You have to stay on the state highways.&quot; So I was like okay, I was like, &quot;Please, Father in heaven Then I got a ride real quick -Do you hitchhike with bare feet? But not in the wintertime. It's not healthy -No driver's, license, no ID, -I don't have one. My parents did establish and the card said, So I never signed it and I decided to revoke [Peter laughing] -So in a way, you don't exist? And I had a birth certificate So I don't have that either. I don't exist but I do exist in the lives and my Father in heaven. I have no clue what happened to Titus. He took off somewhere out there. But I know I can call him. So I'll just give it a shot here. [phone ringing] [Peter surprised] Oh! -Hello. -Hello, Titus. -This is the office? -So this is where -Yes. -So you gotta come -Yep. -So why do you have -Didn't want the distraction? -Like if I'm studying I don't want to be interrupted. Just, I come out here to check messages. When it's convenient for me [splashing] -This is how you get your water? -Yes, I got a little gutter and it just fills up -No filter? -Mhm-mm, no. This is Jerusalem artichokes. Some people call them fartichokes I've got corn, and pumpkin, and beans. And you can see The Indians called corn, Because they grow really peacefully, Corn needs a lot of nitrogen, out of the air and fix it into the soil The beans need something to climb on The corn provides support for the beans and then your pumpkins, or squash, and they will shade the soil, and suppress the weeds. They're like three sisters Here's my bee hive. -So these bees here -Oh, yeah. -So that's key, huh? -Yeah, definitely better pollination. -Do you ever read, Titus? -Yes, I like to read my Bible -What historical period -I'm very interested to read and how at one time they had freedom, and then how Socialism and then how they lost their freedom. I was reading a man in Romania I also like to read biographies How they grew up or their stories. I read a book recently about a man that was between the Hutus and the Tutsis and how they grabbed him and they're like, &quot;Dig your grave.&quot; So he was digging his own grave &quot;Before I dig my own grave And one said, and the other leader said, &quot;Yeah, go ahead, And then as he was preaching and then eventually they just let him go. They said, &quot;You leave, you go.&quot; So that's amazing that he wrote Those who do not learn from the mistakes -Who's famous quote is that? -That's a good question, I don't know. -Do you know, Peter? -Definitely true. [chopping] -Well why don't we pause a minute -Okay. -Father, we wanted to tell you that that's so fresh and good. We ask that you would bless it in our thoughts, We ask that you would be here too with us. We thank you -Amen. I don't think I've had maybe in my life, Titus. [Titus giggles] -Oh, yeah... [chewing] Oh yeah. -It's a short distance... -Your kale has such a short commute. -Yeah. -And you don't eat meat at all, right? -Eggs or animal products? -Just a plant-based diet. One of the reasons is he put them on a plant-based diet. So clean meats are allowed And another reason why Like a standpoint of So... if we took, say, a cow... -Mm-hmm. -Feed it ten pounds of grain. Then when we would butcher it So... obviously if you compared between one pound of meat, calorie value per pound -Mm-hmm. -But if you have and you have the calories in the grain is a lot higher And Albert Einstein said that... I'm not quoting it exactly if everyone would go that would save What people put in their body to take that choice away from them. -Right. -I can just tell people how good I feel on a plant-based diet. You saw me climbing up the rope, -You know, it def-- -It's working for sure, yeah. -And like growing up, I never had soda pop, -You grew up -So you just kept it going? -You didn't phase out of it I grew up going to church -You know, if you mean by religious, no, that's not really me. But as far as, like, reading my Bible... Going to the Bible that's definitely, definitely me. Going to God in prayer, that's definitely a daily thing. -So wouldn't you say in the sense that it's just -Sort of like an instruction manual. -Here's what to do and what not to do. If you're someone like me, It's teachings are amazing. Culture in general lives off even if someone's not religious, they're Like you're not supposed to steal. Do unto others that you want done to you. -Basic tenets of society. -You have it easy in the sense I don't follow it word for word. So a lot of my compass and there's some trial and error. I mean at this age -Right? Sorta grounded. -But I do always want and explore things, and be creative. So for me, And I respect the Bible, Like I totally get it 100%. And this will probably sound In ten years and that to me is the adventure of life. But I'll tell you what, I used to sort of I'm like, that's newer than 'Cause really it is, there are And then I did my first videos and I lived with a family basically from a big conflict in 2014. Russian missile hits they moved to the countryside, Actually living in a similar way. Your definitely producing more good crops. They were in a dryer climate but I saw how religion and how it was a guide. He used to be a street fighter, he was He was like a bad apple in that sense. -Wow. And he doesn't do drugs, and he doesn't And then that opened my eyes to, These people, much worse of a life than with it. I think that's the beauty, we don't have to believe the same thing -God definitely did -Mm-hmm, yeah. Titus, we gonna do some creek side dining? -Yeah, it's cooler here than on the porch. -Titus, you got a call. -They can leave a message. -So you have -Mm-hmm. -You ever have a cell phone? Never did. -You're untraceable, untrackable, Titus. You're such a bad consumer. [both laughing] You're really... You're terrible If they can break through to Titus [both chuckling] -Somebody called me on my landline phone. -And they were trying [Peter laughs] -And... I told them I've got a security system that works And it's free, My Bible tells me that So I have angels She's like, &quot;Oh, okay.&quot; [Peter chuckling] She hung up on you? -I had a-- -This is tasty by the way, fantastic. -It's simple. See the beauty of when and I'm so disconnected from it everything tastes much more and better texture, Instead of like I got some arugula Just 'cause I was craving some greens. I ate it and it was just this dead green. You could tell there were You know, not the same obviously. -Coulda been hydroponically grown. -It was, yeah. -In a way, your life, I know it's through God's will very independently. Like, you are extremely self-sufficient. Like if the power grid goes out or supply chains get messed with Some 10x level pandemic Um... You are like... So you're very much on your own but because you believe in God a lot of the stresses aren't necessarily yours. You don't take those on to yourself. I'm just trying to think and therefore, that gives you -Fair to say? [stream flowing] [Titus] Fresh from the garden. [birds chirping] -This tree is made for relaxing on, huh? -It contours your back. It's like a perfect made little seat. -Oh yeah, that's like childhood. Mmm. Wow. Check that out. -I planted these strawberries this spring. A friend of mine has And she gave me some plants, Jesus really blessed them. Because consistently I've been than what I expected for the first year. And they've been just super sweet. Just really good. -Let me ask you this. What do you think people say, not living around here, not understand about your lifestyle -Maybe some people would be like, &quot;Why would somebody -Okay. -Or maybe that's what they-- I mean maybe there's or maybe somebody looking &quot;Wow, so peaceful. I mean it would take You know? Eat 'em up, brother. And it gives you the freedom to like, if your neighbor's then you got the freedom to go and just spend a few days somber country