What are the limits of Geometry Dash? Over the years, people have pushed this simple From making a level that uses over a million long. Today, we'll be taking a deep dive into answer to this rather interesting question. How far can we truly push this game before Where do we start, though? This is the game's supposed health. Our goal is to bring it down to 0 and what possible object count. So, what is it? Let's begin with 80 thousand objects and Since placing so many objects one by one will into the same grid space. But when I do that, something weird happens. As you can see, the level cannot open. And while there is no known reason why this why. It's interesting; to say the least, so let Back in 2.0, Absolute had just released a a program that allows you to import images However, while this could be used to make well, inappropriate art with it. Of course, this made RobTop quite unhappy. And so later in 2.1, it is said that he added to open that have more than 2k objects in Of course, this is just a theory but it honestly Other theories also include an anti-lag feature Anyhow, now that we know we can't place just put them separately. The highest object count a level can normally cause instability on lower-end devices. However, since we are only trying to find really care about that (add joke about phone Sorry, mobile players. How can we exceed that limit, though? Well, since some creators feel sort of constrained modifications that allow you to bypass it. So, let's try going from 80k to 100k objects. As you can see, the level opens just fine. *music stop* But what happens if we just jump them triggers in the editing)? Are you ready; 3, 2, 1 (show crash or something). The game crashed, but why? While you may think it has to do with my PC Geometry Dash can only use up to 2GBs of ram If a level has too many objects, it will exceed it. And that's exactly what happened here, the and it crashed. So now that we know that, what actually is I went and asked Adaf, a skilled GD modder, He told me that without a patch that doubles and have text under say uses 400k objects) If you download a patch, though, the number But this is not 100% accurate. You see, the types of objects used in a level So if you compare a level with 800k 1.9 objects with the 1.9 objects will open up more easily. Taking this into account, we can make a rough objects is around 600 to 900 thousand; while since playing and saving have some differences. However, even if this is already pretty insane a look at how long a level can get, things The longest level you can normally build in This is because the editor just ends there, But what if I told you we could? With the use of an external program called length directly. A level that used this software is Timeless. Timeless by Cyrillic is thought to be one Dash. When you enter it in the editor, you will seconds in length. This led to a lot of people believing that that it is 68 years long, by converting the The thing is none of these are actually true. Let me explain. The level displays that big number, which editor because of overflow. Basically, if the level's length surpasses number, it will overflow and show it as a Think of it as an error message. Now that we know that, though, how long is Well, around 2.5 billion years have existed for around 2 million years. That's more than a thousand times less than And the crazy part is that we can go even In fact, we already have. Emptiness is a level by EulerNum that's By how much you ask? Around 35 octillion times. But what if I told you that both levels are Not humanly impossible (cause well that's You can never, ever, ever, reach the end, The icon will abruptly stop moving. So, what is the true longest possible level Well, the answer happens to lie in the FPS Yes, you heard that right; Frames per second Not because RobTop is bad at coding but due So let's look into it and maybe we can find To understand this, we need to first take move next. In short, it takes your current X position on your FPS. The higher your FPS, the smaller the movement Keep this in mind for later as it will be Anyhow, let's look at an example. Your cube is at X position 900, that's around To move to the next frame, GD will take your steps to it. (Put text at the bottom of the video saying dependent on the speed and FPS you use). This means that your new position is now 910. This is then repeated for every single frame until it doesn't. So, why does this happen? Due to how computers calculate equations between complicated than it actually is, the result Let's look back at our example. If you remember, we added 10 steps to our The thing I didn't mention, however, is something like 910.000, some 0s later, 1. Now the reason this happens and the science researching for this my brain restarted multiple And since this is a GD video, I won't go need to know is that the bigger the numbers Now, this is a huge issue when talking about The way GD calculates your next move is by If we go too far, way too far, that X position of the result will go off by so much to the rendering your icon still. But while we've figured out why it stops, Well, accuracy pretty much determines how Remember what I said before? Well, the more FPS, the less you move. So the equation on a very high frame rate which requires more accuracy than something Hopefully, I didn't lose you too much in this, what is the longest possible level in After talking to Adaf for a while, he told stops, is around 32 hours, making that the While we've discussed a lot so far about touched on how we can break levels in the Of course, that can only mean that there is How can we break Geometry Dash? The fact is, is that there are lots, and I Either it'd the countless bugs littered to make it do unintended things. So, where do we start? Let me explain to you how a crash trigger First, you place a move trigger. Second, you set the values of it to something Then you place it in one of the most anticipated unrated, remove it, and then get it rerated; Basically, what a crash trigger does is well, It's nothing too crazy but due to how popular Infinity shebang I thought it'd be best Things get way more interesting from here, What if I told you about the "Geometry Dash I know that sounds confusing, how can the Remember when we talked about the longest Well, one thing I didn't mention is that things get. Let me show you a clip. Notice something odd? The cube seems to be jumping normally but Why? Well, the farther you are in a level the faster The reason this happens is the same as we else. The icon and textures are also funnily messed Like look at this, it looks drunk. Editor's note: Apparently if your wave gets makes it move by just a bit, making your trail It's really funny to say the least and I ye let's continue. Guess long lengths mess up any game. But what if I told you there's something Frames per second; the more of them you have, So, of course, let's use 19 thousand FPS. As you can see, the wave moves at a strange possible. The reason this happens is once again because I swear every problem we've found has something Anyhow, frame rate also messes with physics said before, and the ship's rotation. *brush sound effect or something lol* But possible with the use of modifications. What if we take a peek at some bugs; game-breaking Game file corruption is something no one wants However, there is a small chance that when This makes you unable to open Geometry Dash files. As far as I know, the exact cause for this one explanation I found was that it has to Now I won't go into detail on how this happens, to the game for a bit just because you saved *sigh* Even so, the next bug we are going Ocular Miracle is a level released back in Upon its release, it got rated extreme demon it. However, the level had an insane amount of This led to GD using more ram than it could some devices, yeah. However, graphical glitches like these have GD modders have theorised that the glitches causes the textures that are stored in the They have even tried debugging this issue but the exact reason is unknown. It's pretty funny that a single level can While these seem to be the limits of the game being in development daily, there's one These limits will be broken. The older video on this topic is located here out immensely with this video and make sure for also helping me. Goodbyeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.