MATT ABRAHAMS: Small talk, I We refer to small talk as any that we don't put When, in fact, small talk is bonding, learning, growing. And what makes it so that we can't have a script. We have to just go with what's We often think that It's like a tennis match, where to the person or and I hope it lands I think a better way is like that game that little beanbag to keep it up all and never have it If you envision your job as to keep the conversation moving match, where I just need to get it can really change, and two, the experience All of a sudden, it's rather than something [MUSIC PLAYING] When you first get into I think we need to Rachel Greenwald, a has this wonderful saying. Your goal is to be A lot of us go into thinking that we need to engaging, and interesting, need to be present and be that's happening. It also helps reduce the We feel like we And the reality is You can reduce the we feel by putting your [MUSIC PLAYING] Many of us have as something spontaneous have to respond to do it We have this sense that is associated with competence. But really, what reflects is an appropriate response. And appropriateness can We have all said mean to say because or it wasn't appropriate. Pausing helps reduce So here are some things you can Paraphrasing is wonderful. Why? Not just because the gist of what somebody you're clearly going to or what's needed, forces you to slow down Paraphrase isn't what a parrots back what you've said. It's a distillation of And when you paraphrase One, you validate the other heard you. You're not necessarily agreeing. Paraphrasing doesn't It just means this And it validates the content. So you validate the person, can say, no, no, no, no. What I really meant was this. So it helps with fidelity. Most of us listen just enough to saying, and then we immediately and responding. When I paraphrase, I have I have to listen to understand you're saying? That slows me down. And by slowing my own thoughts them, I buy myself some [MUSIC PLAYING] There's always something to say. You can always ask a question. My mother-in-law was She had a black And her superpower She would pause for a tell me more. If you are ever in a conversation where you most of the time you could or give me some more mean about that point? And just by giving the person that gives you time to to say and to connect to it. CREW: Tell me more. When you say, tell me more If you just say, tell but if you say tell me-- yeah. Tell me more. Tell me more about that. Yeah. [MUSIC PLAYING] Mistakes are normal and We make them all the time. Spontaneous connection, not perfection. You know, in film and TV, to have multiple takes. A take is just another shot So an actor might say something or they might say it being more curious. Those are all different takes. So I'd like people to reframe What you did wasn't wrong. There might be another way to [MUSIC PLAYING] Many of us, when we in spontaneous speaking We're discovering what we're So we just take people on the as we're speaking, and we It's almost a where if I just throw that maybe something will oh, that person's what they're talking about. Concision is almost always My mother has this I know she didn't create it, don't build me the clock. Many of us are clock-builders situations. And we have to remind ourselves tell the time. I know the irony that I'm and I was not concise One of the best ways is to leverage structure. Structure is not a It's not bullet points. Structure is a logical It's like a recipe or a map. Now, this sounds ironic, right? We're talking about and here I am saying structure But we see this in our If you enjoy jazz isn't just random playing. Jazz music follows particular connections of notes. So we can leverage structure tighter and clearer. One of my favorite because it's so useful in so is three simple questions. What? So what? Now what? The what is your idea, your belief. The so what is why is it or people you're talking to? And then now what Maybe I'm going to show you set up another appointment. When it comes to small talk, Imagine you're at a corporate and there are people in the met. So if I'm engaging you in what brings you here? That's the what. When you answer, I can say, or why do you find That's the so what. And then after that, I can ask more are you going to do, or or do you want to join So I've got the now As with anything that you have to practice it. When you read something pause it, stop your reading, why is it important to By drilling it, it When we're in small we often initiate with How are you? What brings you here? What do you do? These are simple, started, but they actually I am a big fan of initiating but through questions to the particular context Just the other day, I was in And the very first to somebody I didn't know and There are more people in this think I've seen in a long time. And the person You're right. That's really interesting. And all of a sudden was off and running. All I did was notice Initiating with something that something that might be not known or commonly can really invite people And they say, fine. Well, now I'm back and it's even more [MUSIC PLAYING] Perhaps more challenging small talk is getting Many of us rely on biology. Oh, I'm thirsty. I'm going to go get a drink. I'm hungry, or I need Biology is not for these circumstances. I love an approach I learned It's called the If you know anything prior to the last they wave a white flag to that the race is ending. As you're drawing near to either because you need to or the conversation has you signal that. You say, I need to and this is where you provide one last So you continue the conversation So it might sound I need to get going because I need to meet. But before I go, I want about that trip you were And together, you can draw rather than you I need to go to the bathroom. Or, wow, that looks like It's just a much to end a small [MUSIC PLAYING]