Good morning everyone. Summer vacation is over and the new semester starts today. And in Japan, autumn is coming. Today was the first time in a long time that I was able to sleep without air conditioning. I don't plan to put fans and other summer items away yet, as the temperatures will be very different in the fall. I don't have bed hair today, so I'm just going to wash my face. I have frizzy hair and it is hard for me to set my hair everyday, so I straighten it. I was shocked when my mother told me that your hair is dead. lol My cat came to greet me in the morning. His name is Sora and he is two years old. He is not interested in anything. Just kidding. I overslept today, so I have to hurry a bit to get ready for school. I drink coffee when I wake up in the morning; at $0.6 a bottle, this is very inexpensive as I drink it in portions. A liter (34oz) of milk costs about $1.50 I put too much milk in... feels great. I've taken caffeine so I can move briskly! I will make a lunch to take to college. This is my lunch box. The rice was prepared the day before and set on a timer to cook in the morning! Mix lightly to prolong the flavor. In Japan, school lunches are provided for elementary school students. Currently there are many problems and opinions about school lunches in Japan, but at least I have irreplaceable memories of my childhood when we all ate the same food But now I'm in a hurry, so I'll leave the warm memories to the side and put the frozen food in. lol. Is there a custom of making lunch boxes in your area? In Japan, there are actually countless mothers like artists who make lunch boxes, called Chara-ben, that represent anime characters for their child. (Burger steak with the secret flavor of aged miso) (Beef ribs with mayonnaise that you can't stop eating) (Savory teriyaki flavored chicken tsukune skewers) (Dried strips of radish : 6 kinds of Japanese side dishes) Next, select Furikake (rice seasoning) (Egg flavor) (Toasted seaweed flavor) (Salmon flavor) I'll bring the side dishes to the university in a frozen state. Frozen food packages are labeled as naturally defrosting OK. This lunch box is a good product I think. Each section of this is sealed by a lid, preventing juices from leaking out and transferring flavor to other ingredients. complete!! put my lunch box in the bag I take to college. I'm gonna change my clothes. The moment I find it difficult to live in Japan is when I go outside, I am expected to be at least clean and seasonal. So in Japan, clothes cost money anyway. UNIQLO is the best choice for minimum cleanliness at the lowest price. So all my clothes are UNIQLO. I heard that the price of UNIQLO clothes varies all over the world, with Japan being the cheapest. Breakfast is chestnut buns from the kitchen and coffee made earlier. My grandpa gave me this yesterday and I was binging on it. But when I looked at the back, I couldn't believe how many calories it had... Incredibly, one 65g (2.3oz) has 175kcal. &gt;_&lt; But very tasty... In Japanese, this is described as a 'sinful taste'. Yummy. After brushing my teeth thoroughly, it's time to go to school! I'm off. The school is reached by bus. But it's quite far to the station to catch the bus. It takes me a little over an hour to get from my house to the college. This is probably the average commuting time for Japanese university students. My city is not that urban, but recently large buildings and commercial facilities are being constructed all the time. The bus arrived just in time. Touch your phone or IC card to board the train. You can also board the train with cash, but it is quite a hassle. I recommend that you get an IC card called Suica for your trip! How do you commute to work or school? Please tell me your region and primary commute in the comments! Arrived at the University. Arrived at the University. When getting off, show your smile or say thank you to the driver :) Heading to the first classroom. I got there earlier than expected and no one was there yet! I have no friends in college because I was busy outside of school and was easily ill. This is why I have been living a quiet college life alone all this time. I sit at the very back end of the room. This class is about to begin, so get ready. This class is to study C language. Actutally I freelance as a programmer, so the classes are not that difficult. But I'm a little jealous that they can discuss assignments and exams with their friends. Have you ever envied others or had a hard time in your life? If you have a problem that you can't tell anyone in real life, you can write it in the comments. Gladly, all my subscribers are kind, so let's help each other :) The first class is over. Here are some of my favorite places :) This is a less conspicuous location behind the cafeteria. During the pleasant breezy season, I work here or just relax without thinking. I have been editing Youtube contents recently. By the way, the screen is very dirty... lol I work too much in front of the monitor and my eyes get tired often. So I can't do without eye drops. I was taking my time and I dozed off a bit. It's time for lunch. I came to the study room. I always eat dinner while watching Youtube or anime on my laptop. Wear earphones. In Japan, make sound are basically not allowed in public places. So most Japanese use earphones Now how's in my lunch box? All nicely defrosted! Mostly meat, but they look good! I spilled some of the rice seasoning lol Let's enjoy a quiet meal alone :) First, I will eat this Japanese radish. This has a Japanese broth that goes well with rice! This burger steak is thick and very tasty too. I ate all the other side dishes in no time. I regret that the amount of rice was a little small... Gochisosama-deshita!! After finish eating lunch, I'm doing assignments. This is an economic report that analyzes a company. This class is very hard because there are so many assignments... And I'll review for the class I just took. To be honest, there are many rules in Japanese classes don't make sense. For example, in a programming class, I was asked to submit source code on a piece of paper. The next class is practical skills. But let's end with a quick one, since the same images keep coming lol There are about several hundred 'Mac' on the second floor and several hundred 'Ubuntu' on the third floor. My major is CS and MEDIA, or maybe it is because of the $9300 per year tuition for equipment. The average cost of four years of university tuition in Japan is as follows. All classes ended at 4:00 p.m. today. I'm gonna take the same bus again back to the station. I am going to have dinner alone now. I haven't decided what to eat yet, but since I am alone I am free to decide. I had never been aware of the city I live in until I started Youtube and took it for granted. But, when I looked at it consciously, I realized that there are unexpectedly beautiful views around me, and I began to feel a small happiness every day. Suddenly it started raining. I surprisingly like Japanese scenery with power lines. Whenever I take a picture, I always see electric wires, which I feel symbolize Japaneseness. But when I drive, the poles are pretty much in my way lol Rain is getting heavier. Good thing I wore sandals. There are a variety of Japanese, Western, and Chinese restaurants in this area. What shall I eat? I decided to have a beef bowl from a chain restaurant called Yoshinoya. There are three famous beef bowl chain restaurants in Japan: Yoshinoya, Sukiya, and Matsuya. I like Matsuya the best. When you come to Japan, please compare each of them. But, I loved and wanted to eat Yoshinoya's limited-time sukiyaki gozen, but it was not available yet. So I ordered a beef bowl with four kinds of cheese on top!($4) The rich cheese that stretches out looks delicious! Very happy to eat something delicious at the end of the day! Chopsticks for eating never stop. The beef bowl is perfectly balanced with the soy sauce flavor and the sweetness of each onion and beef. I finished it right away. In our culture, we eat every grain of rice. (Gochisosama deshita) When I left the restaurant, the rain had stopped. It was a busy day today, but a happy one. I'll walk some more to get home. I have a hard time walking because I ate too much, but that is also a happy thing. Thank you for watching the video to the end. I'm happy if you would subscribe and press high rating. And please write in the comments your thoughts or questions you may have. I wish you all a little happiness as well :) See you soon :)