Viewers, the taste of a meal is measured by the taste of the Rasam whether the meal is served at the home, a restaurant, or at a family function. The meal is as often as good as the taste of the Rasam/Saaru served. The secret behind a tasty Rasam/Saaru is often the Rasam powder that was used for its preparation. I spoke to my elders, caterers, chefs and did my research and experiments to come up with this Rasam powder or Saarina Pudi recipe View this video till the end and then try this Rasam Powder recipe yourself. Let me know in the comments how the Rasam using this Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi tasted for you. First, we need to roast all the ingredients. So, add 1 tsp Oil to a pan. Here I have used Coconut Oil. In a measuring cup, I added 1/2 Cup Cumin Seeds / Jeera. Roast the Cumin Seeds in low-medium flame. Do not roast the Jeera to dark brown, also do not under roast either. Roast till you can smell the roasted aroma from the Cumin Seeds. Also, the moisture in the Jeera should disappear. The quantity of Cumin Seeds used by me is a little higher than that of Coriander Seeds to prepare Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi. Many prefer to have the quantity of Coriander Seeds higher than that of Cumin/Jeera when preparing the Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi. I followed my mother's recipe. Adding extra Cumin Seeds to the Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi will enhance the flavor of the Rasam. I have checked about this with a few Chefs and Caterers. Many prefer equal quantities of Cumin Seeds and Coriander Seeds, while others use a higher proportion of Coriander Seeds to prepare this Rasam Powder. You can try my recipe of Rasam Powder; the Rasam/Saaru using this powder will come out really tasty. Roast till the color of the Jeera is as seen in the video. Transfer the roasted Cumin Seeds to a plate and allow them to cool completely. To the same pan, add 1/2 tsp Coconut Oil. Add 1/3 Cup or in the Measuring 1/2 Cup, take 3/4 Cup of the Coriander Seeds. Roast the Coriander seeds in low to medium flame. Take care to see that the seeds are not over-roasted. If Coriander Seeds are over-roasted, then a burnt smell may appear in the Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi. Roast till the moisture content in the Coriander Seeds disappears and the aroma from the seeds starts to appear. I am roasting all the ingredients separately. I roast separately since the time taken to roast is different for each of the ingredients. If all the ingredients are roasted in one go then we would not be able to control the roasting amount of various ingredients. Also, few ingredients may roast in excess while few others are under roasted. So we need to roast all the ingredients separately. If not roasted properly, the Rasam Powder will not turn out well. Roast the Coriander seeds till they turn to color as seen here in the video. Transfer the roasted Coriander Seeds to the same plate as that containing Cumin Seeds and allow them to cool completely. To the same pan, add little Coconut Oil. Once Oil is hot, add 10-15 Black Pepper and roast the same. Black Pepper is optional. Use it as per your preference. Once it is roasted, transfer it to the same plate and allow it to cool. Add 1/2 tsp Coconut Oil to the same pan. Once Oil is hot, add 1 and 1/2 tsp Fenugreek Seeds and roast the same. If you add excess of Fenugreek Seeds than suggested here, Rasam will turn bitter. So add 1 to 1-1/2 tsp of Fenugreek Seeds. Again, roast this in low to medium flame. Once the Fenugreek Seeds turn golden in color, add 1/4 tsp of Hing/Asafoetida. Roast till you reach the stage seen here. I am transferring this to the same plate and allowing it to cool. Allow all the ingredients to cool completely. Once cool, these ingredients turn crispy. Now we need to roast the Red Chillies and Curry Leaves So I used a big Kadai. Add 1 tsp Coconut Oil. Add 25-30 Red Chilies. Add 15-20 Curry Leaves and roast them in low to medium flame. If you need more spice, add 8-10 Guntur Red Chillies. We prefer less spice, so we always use Byadagi Red Chillies. Chilies should fluff up and have to change their color. Also, the Curry Leaves should change their color and turn crisp. Roast till you reach the stage seen here. Chilies will be soft when they are hot. Once cool, they will turn crispy. Transfer to another plate and allow to cool completely. Now that all of the ingredients are cool, let's make powder out of them. Add roasted Red Chillies and Curry Leaves and grind to a coarse mixture. See how crispy the Chillies have become after cooling. Again, I am grinding them separately just like we roasted them separately. First, we need to powder the Red Chillies. Later we will powder ingredients and mix them all. The Red Chillies and Curry Leaves have been ground coarsely as shown in the video. I am transferring this to a plate. To the same mixer jar, add other roasted ingredients and grind them. I will post the video on how I prepare Rasam/Saaru using this Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi as early as possible. I have mentioned the ingredients list in the description box in grams and also in measuring Cups. Please check the same if required. Grind them all to the consistency shown here. I transferred the powder to the same plate to which I transferred the Red Chilli Powder and mixed them. Once everything is mixed well, we need to grind them all again. By following this method, we help grind the Rasam powder to a smooth powder and everything gets mixed well. Also, in Rasam Powder, the seeds of the Red Chillies will not be seen and will be fully ground. I ground them in two batches and transferring them to a plate. If there are any lumps in Rasam Powder break them with the help of your hand. The Rasam Powder now looks colorful and ground to a fine powder. Now the Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi is ready. We can prepare Rasam/Saaru 10-12 times if you prepare Rasam Powder with the measurements mentioned in this video. Friends, you all have seen how to make Rasam Powder or Saarina Pudi. Do give it a try. If you like the video, hit the Like button and subscribe to my channel. Thank you.