In 2001 Nokia folded a full colour screen and This was at a time when every phone had a small communicator, and the screen on this phone is it could play Snake. This phone was sent into having in the previous video, with the backlight to send me their well cared for example. And thank you to everyone who supports this channel. is I believe the only phone to have ever used I found out that during production of these 9210i, the older fluorescent tube technology, to the LED backlights. That powered screens in the 2000s. have the original florescent tube, or it could be ear and turn the backlight on, I can hear a very this indicates that this is the fluorescent tube open this up and have a look. Which I'm going do something I didn't get to do in the previous operating system that runs on this phone. This for use on Nokia's Communicator series of versions of Symbian. Giving it a completely unique this to the previous Nokia Communicator Model from between these models. Most apparent is they share With the most notable external difference being While the 9210i has much more of a light gray and the older model. But I'm curious to know which one two models is the main inner display. The older this amazing full color LCD. With a very bright these two also looks quite similar. But under the uses a 486 based CPU, which I've had a closer runs an ARM CPU. Nokia also completely switched While the 9110 runs the GEOS graphical user 9210 runs the Symbian operating system. This with palm PDAs a couple of years later. When over to an ARM based CPU. This was a time just starting to be disrupted by ARM CPUs. A case they had the challenge of how to maintain had been developed for the older CPU architecture. wasn't much third-party software available for the discontinue all support for the older system, from scratch using Symbian. At the time Nokia's things. In particular they were faced with the to manufacture high resolution grayscale but with a full color LCD. Using the same high before the very first iPhone. Which itself was But Nokia were able to do this and they did it simply nothing comparable to this pixel density Communicator models described as feeling phone. After using this for a while I have to which brings up a menu system that's more like Also the 9210 includes a browser, which when controlled by the arrow keys. Really adding I found that the software Nokia included uses on the certificates. Some of the certificates to only last about 5 years. Either way most of some of the inbuilt software, there's also a word software in this phone really shows that this was installs some games on this. Which I'm going to do I showed at the top of this video, didn't come To find and download games today, we have the are dedicated to collecting together as and I'm really pleased this exists. I then need to card. MMC cards predate the SD card format. SD you really need to find an MMC card to use with saved on the MMC card, I just need to slide my MMC is for a SIM card, which is not needed to use the Now I just need to go to settings and installing software. There's also another way and browsing to the installer files on the card. settings installer. There's an option to memory or to the card memory. With the very it's good to first start installing to the card and like Snake this is another Nokia published common on later Nokia models through is interesting because it's designed to The next game I'm trying is a Civilization like a very decent game with nice graphics. But Another interesting game is mood this game sets up with its startup and it looks like it's going to be another very These two games are similar in their depth and types of games are available. Which is when that's played vertically on the phone. It's Gameplay is quite fun. The ball sometimes almost like the system can't keep up. responsive. It's an interesting mix and I went through a few other games and just also a game called Pyramid which turned out but a version of the solitaire card game. As I kept exploring this phone I started The 9210 comes with an inbuilt version of it does so in a rather small window, and not party app that can play mp3s. Though it's hard And of course there's no headphone socket. I don't think there's any way to get But this phone was not really intended or This was 2001 before these used for multimedia type applications. and of course I'm interested in seeing how there seems to be some games that can provide a This game puts you in a 3D environment and battle it out with another tank. This is Combat game. Right down to level design, and the But even better is a game called Meltdown, style game. The aim is to shoot the robots, These 3D Shooters are reminding me of something. That game of course is DOOM. And not only there are two different ports of DOOM for here is DOOM9210. This runs OK. The frame rate is The other port is called C-DOOM. Which is a bit map. But it can also be switched into full screen on this phone. The irony of seeing this on here is Communicator. Which ran a 486 based CPU and could system. These are both the original CPU and originally released for. Yet there's no port there are two ports of DOOM available for I'm very curious to know if this phone uses of the later revisions that uses white LEDs. carefully and have a peek. In the last video and I considered the possibility that the the circuitry that supplies power to the tube. In lots of people describe the possibility that runs through the hinge mechanism. Many people this. From all the details people provided, faulty 9210 has a damaged ribbon cable. With to confirm this. But I'm going to wait until I doing that. Because I don't want to unnecessarily just need to remove this rubber insulator so I While I've got this phone open, I'm going to try And there it goes! with all I still have more things I want to try. One This is by Gameloft. A company well known early days. This game really shows off the fine too detailed and tiny. You really have to look For some reason I'm having a lot of trouble Making it a bit hard for me to play. This game was Including many portable systems. Despite I also note that Wikipedia doesn't mention the platforms this game was released for. Though they but not a compatible system. I'm really amazingly powerful computer inside a phone. I for this phone by pygmy projects. This phone itself was released, and this really Nokia continued to release Communicator models hopefully seeing some of these later models seeing what Nokia were doing when they 2000s shredded this brand. But that's it time all close my eyes for me but my last exhalation slips out of the will close my eyes for me piercing Wick out [Music] Your feeble efforts amuse me human [Music]