One of the biggest myths about the Israel-Palestine that this is all about ancient religious hatreds. In fact, while religion is involved, the conflict the same land. And it really only goes back about a century, Around then, the region Israel-Palestine had been under Ottoman rule It was religiously diverse, including mostly of Jews, who lived generally in peace. And it was changing in two important ways. First, more people in the region were developing but Palestinians, a distinct At the same time, not so far away in Europe, which said that Judaism was not just a religion of its own. And after centuries of persecution, many believed safety. And they saw their historic homeland in the Middle In the first decades of the 20th century, tens of thousands of European Jews moved there. After World War One, the Ottoman Empire collapsed, up the Middle East, with the British taking Mandate for Palestine. At first, the British allowed Jewish immigration. But as more Jews arrived, settling into farming Both sides committed acts of violence. And by the 1930s, the British began limiting Jewish formed to fight both the local Arabs and to resist British rule. Then came the Holocaust, leading many more and galvanizing much of the world in support In 1947, as sectarian violence between Arabs and Jews there grew, the United Nations approved a plan one for Jews, Israel, and one for The city of Jerusalem, where Jews, Muslims, and Christians all have have holy sites, it was to become a special international zone. The plan was meant to give Jews a state, to end the sectarian violence that the British The Jews accepted the plan and declared independence as Israel. But Arabs throughout the region saw the UN plan as just more European colonialism trying to steal their land. Many of the Arab states, who had just recently in an effort to establish a unified Arab Palestine where all of British Palestine had been. The new state of Israel won the war. But in under the UN plan, taking the western half to have been part of Palestine. They also expelled huge numbers of Palestinians population whose descendants today number At the end of the war, Israel controlled all controlled, and the West Bank, named because controlled. This was the beginning of the decades-long During this period, many Jews in Arab-majority in Israel. Then something happened that transformed the Arab states fought another war. When it ended, Israel had seized the Golan and both Gaza and the Sinai Peninsula from Israel was now occupying the Palestinian territories, This left Israel responsible for governing for decades. In 1978 Israel and Egypt signed the US-brokered Israel gave Sanai back to Egypt as part of At the time this was hugely controversial Egypt President Anwar Sadat was assassinated But it marked the beginning of the end of Over the next few decades, the other Arab if they never signed formal peace treaties. But Israel's military was still occupying and Gaza, and this was when the conflict became The Palestinian Liberation Organization, which state, fought against Israel, including through Initially, the PLO claimed all of what had to end the state of Israel entirely. Fighting between Israel and the PLO went on of Lebanon to kick the group out of Beirut. The PLO later said it would accept dividing but the conflict continued. As all of this was happening, something dramatic territories: Israelis were moving in. These people are called settlers, and they whether Palestinians wanted them or not. Some moved for religious reasons, some because some just because housing is cheap -- and Some settlements are cities with thousands deep into the West Bank The settlers are followed by soldiers to guard off of their land and divide communities. Short-term, they make the occupation much Long-term, by dividing up Palestinian land, for the Palestinians to ever have an independent state. Today there are several hundred thousand settlers community considers them illegal. By the late 1980s, Palestinian frustration for uprising. It began with mostly protests and boycotts with heavy force. A couple hundred Israelis and over a thousand Around the same time, a group of Palestinians too compromise-minded, created Hamas, a violent By the early 1990s, it's clear that Israelis from both sides sign the Oslo Accords. This is meant to be the big, first step toward territories, and allowing an independent Palestine. The Oslo Accords establish the Palestinian bit of freedom to govern themselves in certain areas. Hard-liners on both sides opposed the Oslo to try to sabotage the process. The Israeli right protests peace talks, with a traitor and a Nazi. Not long after Rabin signs the second round him to death in Tel Aviv. This violence showed how the extremists on and keep a permanent conflict going as they That's a dynamic that's been around ever since. Negotiations meant to hammer out the final big Camp David Summit in 2000 comes up empty. Palestinians come to believe that peace isn't coming, and rise up in a Second the first. By the time it wound down a few years later, about 1,000 The Second Intifada really changes the conflict. will ever accept peace, or that it's even worth trying. Israeli politics shift right, and the country to control Palestinians' movements. They're not really trying to solve the conflict The Palestinians are left feeling like negotiating they're stuck under an ever-growing occupation That year, Israel withdraws from Gaza. Hamas Authority in a short civil war, dividing Gaza Israel puts Gaza under a suffocating blockade, This is the state of the conflict as we know It's relatively new, and it's In the West Bank, more and more settlements with protests and sometimes with violence, In Gaza, Hamas and other violent groups have The fighting overwhelmingly kills Palestinians, In Israel itself, most people have become keeps the conflict relatively removed from horrible violence. There's little political will for peace. No one really knows where the conflict goes Maybe a Third Intifada. Maybe the Palestinian But everyone agrees that things, as they are now, can't of the Palestinians is too unstable to last, and that, unless something dramatic changes, whatever comes next will be much worse.