- Inside the tank is Brandon Birchak, and he is going to for this entire video. (dramatic music) Brandon is one of the in breath work, so please don't try this at home. I'll put his info in the description if you want to learn more. I'm going to keep this on the right side of the video, and while he's holding his breath, we will figure out how he does it. And I'm even going to way longer than I ever have before. I failed the very first level of swimming 'cause I refused to This is somewhat terrifying. (soft music) All the cells of the human body need oxygen in order to survive, oxygen to react with the molecule that delivers energy wherever it's needed in a cell. Breathing is so important, it happens without conscious thought. It's under the control of When resting, we breathe But that rate automatically The brain knows how using chemical sensors There are chemoreceptors for CO2 in the carotid arteries Increasing CO2 in the and it's thought that this CO2 acidity is the main feedback mechanism CO2 is created at the same so acidic blood tells the body we're building up too much CO2, and therefore, running out of oxygen, so we better breathe. The only known chemoreceptors are in the carotid arteries, but these are thought in regulating breathing. And this is why hyperventilating is a really bad idea, because hyperventilating making the blood more alkaline. But it doesn't actually of oxygen in the blood, which is limited by the and the number of red blood cells. So, with the blood starting out alkaline, more CO2 must be produced give you the urge to breathe, which means more oxygen will be used up, sometimes to the point where the brain runs out of oxygen to stay conscious, so you can black out underwater before even getting the urge to breathe. If you want to maximize the time you can hold your breath for, you have to optimize two First, you need to maximize in your body before you And second, you have to reduce the rate at which oxygen is used - So, when we work with an athlete, one of the first things we do is we check their BOLT score. Just tell them, &quot;All (inhales) And then they hold their breath 30, 40 seconds or something. They breathe, that's your new BOLT score. - [Brandon] Where BOLT stands If you want, you can try to Whenever you're ready, and then a really big inhale. (Brandon inhaling) The BOLT score just measures you can hold your breath before you feel the first urge to breathe. - Your first inkling to breathe is when most people choose to breathe. - Yeah, that's, (both laughing) That is exactly when I'm Some people are naturally The bigger your lungs, for example, the more air, and hence, Most people have a lung capacity between four and six liters, but some people have a 10-liter capacity. (soft music) - (exhales) I dunno, how was that? - [Timer] 40 seconds. - [Brandon] There you go, 40 seconds! - [Derek] Stretching can - I'll do degrees this way, 90, 90, and then also on my chest. And then I'll do it again at about half the volume of a lung pack, so I (exhales) and then I'll do it again. - [Derek] The ideal is someone tall and skinny but not too much tissue to use up oxygen. - Aleix Segura, excellent breath holder. He's also built for it, too. He's six feet tall, weighs less than me. I mean, he's like a lung with a brain. - Another technique that can increase the amount of air stored in the lungs is called lung packing. After taking a full, deep breath, you continue to take little sips of air, packing it in on top. - I'll hold my breath (exhales) and then I'll do about 20 packs. (inhales rhythmically) - [Derek] The other side of the equation involves reducing the rate oxygen is used. (ethereal music) And since muscles use oxygen to contract, it's very important to be relaxed. - Go through the whole body and we're going to do a muscle check. We're going to go all the way So, once I hold my breath, (inhales) now I'm just going to check to make sure that nothing is engaged. - [Derek] Brandon where he's active during the breath hold, but since he's moving around, he uses up oxygen faster, and so doesn't hold People actually have a secret weapon when it comes to reducing by virtue of our evolution. It's called the mammalian dive reflex. All mammals have this that helps us survive when The trigeminal nerve in our face detects the coolness of the water and triggers a series of responses. The heart beats slower, decreasing the rate at which are circulated around the body. Our blood vessels in our confining blood to our ensuring we have enough - If you take a free diving class, you can see your fingers, your hand, very sort of like a pale color. - If I do a 10-minute breath hold, this will read at 50 or 60. And then it'll just turn off, 'cause I'll have no blood in my hands by the end of that long breath hold. It's all from here to here. - [Derek] And the spleen releases extra pre-oxygenated red blood increasing the available supply of oxygen. The brain also uses a - Mental activity, neuronal so you're trying to - When your body's not moving, your brain is using 80% of the oxygen that your body is utilizing. 80%, it's a biblical amount. So, you want to turn (soft music) You want to give yourself that you can just keep You want to stop thinking, but you do need to pass the time somehow and you have to fight So, give yourself something short, something that you can remember. And then, you get through that you'll pass another toward the end of the breath hold, particularly when it's really and you're dealing with a really bad about of acidotic response. Once you do your body check, I want you to go through the alphabet and I want you to have a The more you practice this, the better you'll get at just the sensation of compassion or gratitude. And then, that in itself When I do a really big breath hold, I'm not thinking about anything. I'm on cloud nine. I'm just, between five and 15 minutes, I feel like I'm just on a rocket ship at 1,000 miles an hour. I'm just like, I'm not I just have a sensation and a color. But that's because of It's a little bit psychedelic. (dramatic music) - [Derek] After a half hour of practicing with Brandon in the pool, this is the longest breath - Nice, nice and relaxed. Immediately relaxing. - [Derek] I'll leave it running in the bottom of frame, here. - Just know that that urge to breathe is just your body lying to you. You do not need to breathe. You have plenty more time. So, when you get that Just appreciate it for what it is. It's just your body taking sending a signal, But you're totally fine. You've got maybe four or so you're totally, totally good. So, when you get that urge relax, appreciate it for what it is. And then I want you to try to count to 10 as slowly as you can. Just give yourself 10 extra seconds after the urge to breathe, okay? - Okay. - [Derek] I practiced - [Brandon] And I want you to five seconds out, just through your stomach And again, as much as you can, but without engaging any muscles. So, one, two, three, four, five in, and then one, two, three, four, five out. - Followed by holding my breath I feel like, psychologically, I was like, &quot;I'm not comfortable not - Well, you made it about a minute. Nice, you made 1:30. - Oh, wow. Easy, and we're we're just starting! Amazing, amazing, amazing! - For real, what was that? - We made about 1:45, - I modified the strategies to keep my mind calm. I think what I was doing that time was going through the alphabet, and just, I couldn't do gratitudes. (Brandon laughing) They were too hard. But I was just doing animals. - [Brandon] Yeah, great, great. Good way to gently distract the mind. - I was singing nursery rhymes because it's something do for my kids. - (laughs) I love that! - I was like, &quot;I'm just going to sing some of the songs I sing for them.&quot; (dramatic music) I was skeptical that my heart rate would drop significantly, but my watch showed that really did kick in. - My average heart rate was 72- - 48, you got down to, nice! Look at that. - That's wild. I don't even get down to 48 when I sleep. That is, that's low. That's low for me. - That's awesome. - It's that thing of, when have Maybe never in my whole life. (soft music) - How'd you go? - [Timekeeper] 2:36. - 2:36, look at that! Yeah, baby! - I think I can guarantee that I've never held my The psychological side is the hardest. How do you distract your How do you stay calm when you feel like, &quot;This is not something I'm used to?&quot; Calming my mind while holding my breath was honestly the most challenging part. But it really helped to have a knowledgeable, experienced to help me through it. And I think that sort of assistance can be helpful in everyday life, too, which is why this part of the video was sponsored by BetterHelp. The idea of BetterHelp is simple, to connect you with an who is trained to listen and give you helpful, unbiased advice. And I know from personal experience that finding a good therapist is hard, especially when you only have But BetterHelp changes the game on this. It's an online platform, and by filling out a few questions, you'll get matched with so you can get talking in You can have your therapy as a video chat, or even via whatever's the most comfortable It's easy to sign up. There's a link in the description. It is betterhelp.com/veritasium. Clicking that link both and it also gets you 10% off so you can try it out And if you don't really fit which is common, you can easily switch without stressing about insurance, who's in your network, Regardless of if you have a like depression or anxiety, or if you're just a human who has fears or stresses, I can't recommend speaking to an experienced professional enough. To give BetterHelp a try, visit betterhelp.com/veritasium or click that link in the description. And now, back to breath holding. I managed to hold my breath but that is nowhere near the record. In 2014, Branko Petrovic held his breath for an astonishing 11 He did this after But there are additional ways to extend breath hold duration. One way is to spend time at high altitude or in low oxygen chambers. - Right now it's set to 5,000 meters. - In the chamber, there's not a lot of O2 in there? - Right, very little. - This triggers your body to increasing your oxygen carrying capacity. But if you really want you could breathe pure oxygen beforehand. Brandon's record for a is 10 minutes. But with oxygen, he has held Breathing pure oxygen is dangerous if you don't know what you're doing, especially dangerous for free divers. - The theory says if you do that and you pass six meters, your risk of oxygen - [Derek] But if done correctly, breathing pure oxygen before a hold can extend it dramatically. The current record is who held his breath for after breathing pure oxygen. For this video, Brandon went through a lengthy breathe-up process, and the last part involved Here he is packing in the last few gulps. (ethereal music) - [Timekeeper] 15 minutes, 15 minutes! - [Derek] But even with oxygen, remaining submerged for With his wife, Brandon has pioneered the first active underwater performance that lasts 10 minutes. - It's one thing to choreograph a piece and direct it and put it together when you are able to communicate normally, when you're not dealing But when you have a man underwater and you're trying to and you're trying to give direction and you're trying to piece this together with an aerial dance, we've done some really big but this was unlike (Brandon laughing) any other challenging piece of theater that we've had to put This has never been done before, so we're literally and we're trying to make sure that, we have to take risks to make But it's that limit, right? How far do you go, how far do you push? I think we're dancing on that line. - You have the urge to breathe, and it starts kind of like maybe a little bit in the But then, eventually, you'll start to really CO2 has a slight narcotic effect as well. You get it high enough, and that's one of the ways that you know that your breath hold is over. - What do you mean, you Time is slow or time is fast or you have no idea how - No idea. You're totally, you're screwed. Your urge to breathe increases, increases, increases, increases, increases. Then, the urge to breathe just plummets. (dramatic music) - [Melissa] 16:45. - And you're like, &quot;Oh, I'm fine.&quot; but your body's not fine. (laughs maniacally) - [Timekeeper] 17 minutes. - So, that's when you (laughs maniacally) - [Derek] And if you want to for up to five minutes, check out Brandon's What was going on in your head? - In the first few minutes, I'm just focused on retaining and not letting my epiglottis Making sure that while I'm engaging that, I'm not also engaging other muscles, like my traps or my So, just focusing on that that I need to engage, making sure that everything else is calm. And then, after about five minutes, my lung volume goes down So, then, typically between I'm super relaxed. I have this sense of falling, And then, typically, after 15, then the CO2 starts to encroach on me. And as it goes up, I have on fighting the mechanisms like my diaphragm, like my intercostals, like my epiglottis fluttering, stuff like that. - Can you feel a difference in your blood when you're getting really acidic? - Yeah, yeah, absolutely. - [Derek] What does that feel like? - Acidic. (both laughing) Feels like the urge to breathe. If you do it enough (radio squealing)