- You're doing great, but I. - Guys. - Horowitz. - Try to be professional - Oh, my God. I'm so sorry, Josh. - It's OK. - Aren't you a First of all, hello, Emily. Hello, Ryan, I don't even know Do I say hi Ryan? Do I say hi Ken? Do I say hey girl? - Hey girl. An Apple a day - What's wrong? Are you OK? - This is so stupid. - What do you prefer nowadays? - You know I prefer hey girl. And I'm insulted that - That's just I get to call you that. That's just our thing, right? Congratulations on You guys know I Emily put it best, It is pure, unadulterated - Joy. - And you know I don't But you two are two of the most - You really don't. Oh, my God. It's your least favorite thing. - I will say. - It's like dentist. - Dentist complimenting - Then give compliments. - I will say begrudgingly, I Blunt are two of the on the planet, I suppose. There, are you happy now? - We haven't met - Yeah, you haven't met - Yeah. - Who's more Be honest, you've spent Who's got it? Who's got that X factor? - What, between us? Who's more charismatic? Now, come on. All the knees go weak Come on, come on. We know it. - See, it's coz she - All the flutter. - That just makes her that that she's so complimentary. - She's got that game. [LAUGHTER] - I could do with never - Me too. I've never said that ever. I was kind of like, No, that's not how you put it. - You've had a few - Can I tell you something? She's given me an has had a weird effect on me. - I gave him one of Dwayne - That's Dwayne - He's just drunk on - I'm very sensitive. - Very sensi system - Ryan, I heard you say that Emily can have chemistry - Oh, is that nice? - I don't know. I guess my question is, Ryan. - I think that's true. - I love flirting with garbage. I just love it. - You do. She can't pass a - Just giving it the eye. - Yeah, just checking in. - Giving it a little side eye. - But I'm a little I feel like, what does that say I mean, repeat after me. I'm Ryan Gosling. I'm more charismatic - Say it. - You're not the - He does not like directives. - You're not my real dad. - I've got the paternity test. - You can't tell - I was going to save [LAUGHTER] - I think when Ryan said that with a trash can, he was in his own charms, in his very short. Because clearly, I chemistry with a trash can. It's not, it's not - Well, they're not all [LAUGHTER] - Some of them have really have - They got a. - To return to the initial that I mentioned, you guys have in recent years, but not are what I would For instance, A Quiet - Joy bomb. - Is it a joy bomb? [LAUGHTER] - Maybe a fear bomb. Is The Notebook a joy bomb, - Yes. - Yes. It's a nostalgia bomb. It's a romance bomb. It's beautiful. - The ducks are pretty fun. [LAUGHTER] - It does feel like there's of Ryan Gosling movies that Am I wrong about this? - La La Land, I do have Notebook, for sure. Blue Valentine is quite sad. - Blue Valentine? - But have you noticed. - Let's not dwell there. - He's going towards Let him go towards the light. - You're the one - No, no, no, no. - He doesn't want - No, I do want to just say Because I recently And he told me Blue And I don't know what that he wants to feel that. - Really? - Yeah, truly. - He's a great singer too. - No. He's just so talented. - Speaking of Thank you, sir. There is some But we're denied Mr. But we do hear spoiler alert. - I know. - Listen, have we not, from Gosling and his pipes. - I'll be the - We have heard enough. - Amen. It's time for some Emily Blunt. It's time for some - That's not true. That's an impossibility. - No, it is. And I hope Phil doesn't see But who likes anyone Those people suck, - We're so happy that If I could show you - No. He was pushing Meat And I didn't want And this one loves - &quot;I Would Do Wouldn't you do anything - Give us a little - I don't think There was another one you - It was Meat Loaf. - No, there was another one. - I had nothing I just can't hit I can't. - Is that what it - Yes, yes. - Ryan, what's your - Oh, I don't go near it. - Really? - I don't have one. - You want me to have. - You have sung karaoke before. - You want me to have that I just have in my pocket. - He's so evasive. - I'm not going to do it. I don't have one. - He's snaking his way - I'm not going to - I'm going to try and imagine Maybe your karaoke - He can sniff it He knows when you're. Right? - It's obviously a Look, I'm trying to Taylor figures importantly There's a key scene - Having a good car cry. - And there's nothing There's nothing - PSA. - You have a car cry every - If I knew how to drive. I do. In the passenger seat, I cry. Yeah. - You never have a - You do it in an Uber, which But it's still a car cry. - I highly recommend it. I had one 15 minutes ago, - Jesus, when did you sneak - While you were - That's where Ryan - Yeah, the right song - Yeah. You did work up those tears like it was-- - It was almost - No, it made me a bit sad. - Oh really, you're going [LAUGHTER] - I'm just saying, have an effect It's undeniable. - I'm only human. - What's the go-to Taylor song? What's your favorite - I think &quot;All Too Well&quot; it has a soft spot in my What's yours? - Yeah. - No, that's the song. - What a poser. We got him, we got him. Good job, Emily. And this is the - This is it. It's all born out of a - She set that up and knocked - Emily has told me in the kids are with you, Ryan. I don't see it. I don't get it. But they enjoy the Gosling. - They love him so It's criminal. And they just think in the world, which he is. They think he's the I showed them a little - Well, they have the two - Well, they are very funny. And they know funny. And they're the coolest And they just think And they don't want to But they asked me, do you to see Fall Guy? - Absolutely not. - It's not. - No. - I was like, it's really not. Hey, I've got some really Because I know you guys both You're there. I know you're on - We like calling it sosh med. - Yeah. - That's what all the - Yeah, the sosh med. - Oh, yeah. I'm so down with sosh med. - This interview, or at will be on TikTok. So this is your opportunity, that understands TikTok. Do you have any questions? - On the TikTok. - On the TikTok. Do you have any questions, - How TikTok works? - They don't want - Don't say that. That's only going to invite - What do they want Horowitz wants me to They don't want me to - They do. - They got better things than to have me ask them. - They've got more [BLEEP] - Random questions - Have you ever dipped into - In the Tik or the Tok? - Oh, my God. Let me tell you something. I don't know much, but I know favorite conversation. - Yeah. This will not. - TikTok has no interest in - Or the Tok. - Or the Tok. - This is going to sink - See how she does it? - Very impressive. Again, always winning What's the next '80s reboot? Do we want Airwolf, What do we want to bring - Golden Girls. - I'm Blanche. - He's Blanche. - You've thought [LAUGHTER] - You're too much. - What would be another - What do you think, Josh? - Knight Rider? - Maybe. - Oh, look at that. Speaking of which, always trying to get you work. You told me Ghost Rider was the I spoke to Kevin Feige. You know this, you saw this. Did I help you out? - This was a magical moment. I told Josh I'd like - You spoke to Kevin - He found Kevin does an interview with him. When he says, I would like [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] - Ryan's amazing. I'd love to find a place - That's the power of Feige. - Or the power of Horowitz. - No, I have no power. - The combined power was just. - So, any movement, have - Nada. - Do you remember, Josh, being in a superhero. - He would never do it. - You did, you said-- Josh Horowitz asked them you would never do it. - I was like, I'd love to. - Right. You don't even know - I thought we wore that we weren't into - No, you do. - I know, I really thought-- I don't know why well, Gosling's with me. - Come being Ghost Rider. - What a turncoat. - Ghost Rider. - You don't even I feel like we haven't even about and the are so important to this film. Let's end on this note. Do you prefer water When you see it in the What do you want to avoid? - I am very. - Can we talk about instead of this weird - Yeah, bring it. This is a tribute. - Water and fire road - This is a love - It's a love letter to - They risk their souls, their to make us look cool. - They risk more than anyone. - That crackling sense of and they know that stunt realistically done, - You can't separate with the history of stunts. - True. - They're inseparable. - But guess what? - Since the beginning. - Of time. - Not time, but I mean. No, don't. Don't do that. - What's the all time? What's the stunt What's the action scene that be near that, if I could that would just blow my mind? - I mean, the Indiana Jones was so amazing, I remember. - The jump in The Fugitive. - The jump in The Fugitive. - Really, in the where he jumps from the - Do you know who that is? - David Leitch. - David Leitch, making Matt When we all know the [LAUGHTER] - Emily only works OK, yeah. So let's end really strong. Matt Damon, Gosling, you can only work with one. You can only work with one. - These are my These are my three fave dudes. Cillian's up there. I don't think I'm going to Oh, my God. Josh, I can't. I can't. It's almost as bad as your - It's The Rock. We all know. We all know. There's no shame in that. - I would actually than choose between your fire and water question. If I see fire, I swear to at the stake in a past life. I have a full allergic do you know what I love and just do some s'mores. I panic at the - At s'mores? - No, fire smoke. Like, I hate the smell of fire. Everyone loves lighting fires. I don't like it. - But what's your - No, I don't - Well, why did - I'm just saying when-- to be this lovely, warm and bond, and make And I'm just like, the smell of that smoke. - I'm so sorry. We'll deal with this at OK, thank you for unlike Mr Gosling. It's good to see you both. Congratulations in all is [BLEEP] amazing. - Thanks. Thank you so much. - Love you, guys. - Bye.