All right. The plan I want to move some rock with it. So let's get the cab off, to go on a truck like this. It's out Can you reach it? Ok good I mean, you could almost roll this window up. The guy said, this ran, It looks pretty broken look how the axle broke. That's impressive. Ever seen a quiet air compressor before? This thing has, like, central grease points Can just grease that one spot, and that's greasing most of the machines. A bunch of leaves that could start a fire and, you know, stuff like that. That's very bad. That could get, rattled We might have to wait for them to get past the guard rail We're measuring if we can fit through here That took a minute. To get to a spot where we could pass these guys Those back tires look new JThey are new, I just put them on there you did? You put the chain on the brake lines. The lines are crushed I didn't feel anything back there. There are brake lines there What's that? This isn't by any means going to be fixed Try to start it back down. Important step right here. Go higher and curl. Go down Down a little bit I'll go forward too Looks like it's good right? Can you pick it up a littel bit? You all right? That's all together. I got the part to fix this. Did he come up here? Yeah. Look at that. What are you doing? You helping? Is that fixed good buddy? I feel pretty good about that Ratchet broken? Well, I put it back where it looks like it supposed to be It's already go. The guy did a good job Look at this. This one's pinched flat. How did he not notice that? He said, "Oh, I didn't feel anything" The chain should have went Yeah. It should have been a good one. It should have went somewhere else. Where it should have went I don't think that's happening. I just ordered new brake lines. It was like 300 bucks, but I topped everything off 115 Cody. What do you think? That was good. First day with the loader up here. All right, so that's nice. all right. So that's nice with that big loader, with the conveyor from the crusher I bought a new roller. The other one kept ending up on the side. Yeah, let's hook it on the low side. If the cable don't break That packs that down nice Then a trick is this to keep doing it Like, drive on this for a while, Drive on it, Roll it. This time last year, And now look at it. That is nice. My dad came up today to help roll Drive up with a pickup truck That happens. But now you roll again. And now Since that one's on top, it breaks up good So if we just keep rolling it, eventually this will stay packed. See? Look at that. That's what we want to see. Big rocks made in to small rocks. This guy who's been showing up He gave me this 40 year But you know what they're, he's getting that Belt is running a little off center here. That is perfect Decent day crushing today I had one Luckily I fix that and the crusher, I was pushing material into it and a rock fell over the I bought this roller. I've rented it at first and I'm like, How much is it to keep for this? It was more than I wanted to spend But it's nice when equipment just works. Look how nice this roller does with the rock This is what I broke That's a pressure sensor right there. I taped it back together Here is that thing that broke on the crusher it's got circuit boards and I think some of these pins and they kind of broke shorter. There are two pins there. That have to plug in. we're connecting four pins here It doesn't seem like it's working. You know, they put the sensor So I'll see if it's got fluid to it. Yeah, it does. All right. Got the part. This looks pretty different. It's going to plug in It does plug in the electrical connections. Right. But the threads are different. Just got back from the hydraulic shop. That's It looks like that worked This has been working fine, but MIght as well put them in Yeah, that's right. There we go. Hold the pedal down Well I'm going to end this video So I probably should have done That definitely loads Well, it's got a little more gravel At least there is plenty here. I also finished crushing everything So I'd have to blast more to crush But that's good. That was the goal.