&quot;I am Paul Cartwright.&quot; &quot;My father was judge Albert Cartwright.&quot; &quot;Once Lieutenant Governor of the State.&quot; &quot;He was killed two years ago &quot;We were not only &quot;But friends.&quot; &quot;The shock of his violent &quot;My nights are troubled &quot;Albert.&quot; &quot;Albert, you've come back to me.&quot; &quot;I'm happy again.&quot; &quot;Mother, no!&quot; &quot;This man isn't father.&quot; &quot;I thought my happiness was gone &quot;Mother, listen to me, mother.&quot; &quot;Don't waste your breath, Paul. &quot;I am your father now.&quot; &quot;You're not!&quot; &quot;You're not my father.&quot; &quot;Dorothy .. Dorothy.&quot; &quot;What is it, Paul?&quot; &quot;Dorothy, speak to mother. &quot;Of course he is.&quot; &quot;Look at the lovely &quot;Isn't it beautiful?&quot; &quot;It has a lion's head.&quot; &quot;Dear father.&quot; &quot;Thank you.&quot; &quot;Thank you so much.&quot; &quot;A train.&quot; &quot;Stop the train!&quot; &quot;Just what I've been waiting for.&quot; &quot;My father.&quot; &quot;The train.&quot; &quot;You!&quot; &quot;Mother.&quot; &quot;Mother.&quot; Mother! Paul, wake up. It's you, Doc. The way you were yelling, What's the trouble? Nightmare? Yeah. What a nightmare. Well, you get up and dress. Fall to, Paul. Here is your breakfast. Doc. Do you remember what you About the phenomena of dreams Yes. But to healthy minded people, Come on, Paul. There is nothing like Doc .. I'd like to go home today. Home? Why Paul, what's the matter? Now look. You're not going to let Why do you suppose mother didn't Oh, she probably had some reason. Now get on with your breakfast. I'd like to tell you about Well alright. If it will Let's finish our eggs, then I'll get the Huh? He said: 'You have hallucinations. And he held on to my arm. That was when you woke me up. Quite an extraordinary At the inquest after You'll remember the engineer He caught a glimpse of the Acme Trucking Although nothing has It still remains the only clue Naturally, it will be Well yes, but .. And the Schumann concerto .. Was your father's favorite But it all seemed so real, The bracelet, abandoned farm buildings, 'It's just what I've been waiting for'. And the terrible danger Forget it, Paul. You've been This is a perfect way to relax. Hey, they're jumping Hi there! Hiya, Mack. What are you doing down here? Sure, that's my racket. You'd better hand your license in. How are they biting? A letter for you, Paul. Okay. It's from the Waynefield Trust. They sent it up from the school. It may Thanks, Mack. No trouble. If there's an answer I'll There is no answer. Ha? Say, you're not pulling No, Mack. Dad left a series of I get one every few months. Well, I'll be doggone. Leave it to the judge to Uncanny smart, that man was. Well. You want to read Good fishing, huh? Fine, Mack. How long you figuring Oh, Doc. Yes, Paul? Would you mind coming So long, boys. Goodbye, Mack. What is it, Paul? I've received one of Dad's letters. Go ahead. &quot;It will be your responsibility &quot;To protect your mother and Dorothy by &quot;I have always guarded your mother &quot;For in my experience ..&quot; &quot;I've had ample opportunity to observe Fits right in with A curious coincidence. I hate to ruin your trip, Doc. Alright, Paul. It wouldn't do you any good anyhow, If everything is alright, Meantime, I can have a nice little visit Thanks a lot, Doc. You can reach me at my sister's. Hello, Ben. Well, this is a surprise. I got kinda homesick. Well, everything is Where is my mother? Mrs Virginia? She went over to the club to Curtis? Who's he? Why, he's been coming round You mean he's been coming He sure ain't been coming What's he like, Ben? Well, he's a fine-looking man. Nice talking, too. But it ain't exactly my place You don't like him. Well, you see how it is. Being with the judge so many years. I got know just what folks And I kinda suspect. This Mr Curtis wouldn't I see. But don't you take no pre-congested It ain't constitutional. To exert undue influence That's right, Ben. I'd better take your bag upstairs. Should I run you a bath, sir? Never mind, I'll just take a shower. Yes, sir. Thanks, Ben. Hello, George? Yeah? Well for a guy's sakes. Well, where are you? Well, why didn't you let me know? Come on over. I want to talk to you. It's confidential. Okay. Mr Paul is home. What brought him home? Well, he said he got homesick. He's up in his room. Paul, darling. Hello, Princess. Didn't you like the fishing? It was alright but .. I wanted to come home. I had so many engagements, dear. Of course, if I'd realised .. Who is the Romeo? Benjamin told you? Well .. his name is Brett Curtis. And he is most charming. You know, I haven't even been slightly But I must admit I like this one. You'll meet him tonight at dinner. Are you sure he's alright? Of course he is. Everyone finds him fascinating. He is amusing and interesting. He has been everywhere. You know in some ways he reminds me Oh, don't look so worried. Well, you're my Paul. You know how lonely I've been. Yes, I understand that. Darling. I've got to change. I hope you have a decent suit to wear. I've been bragging about I'll probably slide down the If you dare. Excuse me, Mrs Cartwright. Poorly, ma'am. Poorly. But she'll be alright when Hiya Paul, you old guy. What's all this 'confidential' business? How about this guy my Oh, him. Well, what gives? Does he rate? By me? Strictly poison. Dorothy and I are washed 'Oh George' says she. 'Why can't you be more like Brett? Women. They get on my nerves. Sounds like a purely I'm after facts. Is he solid? Well, all I know is what Mum and Dad say he's a cosmopolitan. But for my dough, he's a first class .. Hello, Sis. Hello. Well, what happened to Cancelled on account What's with this Curtis If you've been listening to Brett is positively out of this world. The Princess is mad about him. Yeah, and so am I. At least he has manners. That's more than I can Of course, it must be quite a shock to To civilised standards. See what I mean? You know how we used to Take it easy, George. It may blow over. Nah, she'll never be the same. And I'm too old to change. There he is now. Brett, how are you? For me? Oh, you are too divine, Brett. Really. He brings her flowers, the big droop. You simply turn my head. Turn her head? She thinks he's a great wit. But nothing I say is funny anymore. How about staying to dinner, George? I don't feel like facing this alone. Okay. I'll call up home. Oh sure. Do I look alright? I should have gone home and changed. How nice you both look. Paul. This is Brett. How do you do. Of course you know George Hanover? Hello, George. I've been hearing quite a lot about you. Well mother and Dorothy have been Ha, ha. Well I hope you I feel as if I've met you That's because Brett looks like father. Oh, I don't think so. Except maybe his nose a little. Thanks, Paul. I'd rather not Paul is a great deal like his father. I understand you have his talent, too. Maybe a speck of it. I've been reading one of My friend, Professor Muhlbach, The Professor thinks your Well, father's best book I hope I'll be able to I knew you two would like each other. Dinner is served, ma'am. Dorothy? Paul, I have everything you want. You don't mean to tell me you like him? I didn't say I liked him. I just said Yeah, but does Dorothy have Oh Dorothy is nothing but a child. Child, nothing. She's a first-class flirt. The way she hangs on that guy's words. Honest Paul, it sickens me. Pure jealousy. Me .. jealous? Pah. Gosh, that's right. Maybe I am. Paul, look. It was in the box with the Isn't it beautiful? It's a lion's head from India. Brett has such divine taste. Well, don't you like it? Nice girls aren't supposed to He's not a strange man. [ Piano music ] Paul. What's wrong? You're as white as a sheet. I feel .. Kind of .. Paul. Paul. Gosh .. he's fainted. Mother! Oh, Mark. What's the matter, Virginia? I don't know. Dorothy said When he came to, he babbled something He seemed alright at dinner time. Let me see him. Feel better? Say, you know I had an uncle They had to put a spoon in his mouth. Hello, Doc. Well young man, what's this all about? Darling, what is wrong? Nothing, mother. If you don't mind though, I'd like Well, I guess I'll barge I hope you'll feel better, chum. See you tomorrow. You look feverish. Oh I .. just had .. A kind of a mental shock. Remember the dream I told Yes. The part about Dorothy and the bracelet? Yes. There is a man mother is Who is this man, Paul? Brett Curtis. And he did And it was in a corsage and .. It was the music, the same music. This may sound kinda crazy Doc, but .. That dream is beginning to happen. Now wait a minute, Paul. The only similarity to the And that could be a coincidence. Dorothy is very fond of trinkets. Anyone As for the music? It's .. Probably sitting on the piano. I wouldn't worry too much about it, son. Have you told your No. Mother thinks I've got Besides, she's gone And you can't talk to people when You're pretty young to know that. I felt the same way Nobody could tell me anything And you may be entirely Now the best thing to do is to Suppose you and I go down A banker doesn't usually We'll let him investigate. That's an idea. Oh, and Doc. When you go downstairs, I wish I'd like to find out what Alright, Paul. Now stop worrying. Come on, Paul. Mr Allen is a busy man. Thank you, Mr Allen. Goodbye, Bill. Doctor. Good morning, Curtis. Hello Paul. How are you feeling? Oh, I'm fine, thanks. You certainly gave us I hope you've laid down What he needs is more Well, you can't pass exams on fresh air. Not in my school. No. Paul takes his Come along, Paul. Good morning, Curtis. Goodbye. You don't suppose he followed us here? Oh come now, Paul. The man banks there. Weren't you convinced that Allen My intuition isn't. I'd take it easy on that It can become an obsession you know. Well, if you don't mind Doc, Why that's a splendid idea. Try and rid your mind of Curtis. Hi there, doctor. Going anywhere near the club? I go right by there. Hop in. It's a nuisance to find a I don't drive myself. That's unusual. I thought Well, I was in rather a bad accident And it made such an impression on Where is Paul? Oh, he decided to walk [ Piano music ] Hiya Paul. Feeling okay? What gives? The gang is here and we're going I thought you'd like to come along. Hello, Lydia. If you aren't the absolute limit. Not to Ben, what are you doing Miss Virginia wants it Why? Where is mother? She'll be back for lunch. Come on, let's go. We don't want to Okay, come on. Come on, Lydia. Okay gang, I guess we can We can all squeeze in. Come on, Paul. I'll see you later. Paul. Are you deliberately trying to avoid me? Because .. If you are, I'd just as soon you No I'm not, Lydia. I .. Just don't feel like going, that's all. I'm sorry, sir. I sure did hate to move Well .. maybe this is where He spent most of his Yes, sir. He looks so alive. Almost as if he could speak. I wished he could. Ben. When is Curtis coming here again? He's coming tonight, sir. I want you to do something for me. Anything you say. When you take his glass off Use a napkin and put it aside. You know what I want, Ben. Oh, and Ben. I'd like a sandwich and a Do you have the keys to the files? Thanks, Ben. &quot;Prominent in unsolved crimes is &quot;An amazingly clever and &quot;He was suspected of &quot;Including attacks on &quot;Yet the police have been unable to find &quot;His quick disappearances.&quot; &quot;The failure of &quot;The lack of fingerprints &quot;Indicated a marked talent for crime.&quot; &quot;Suspicion first fell &quot;When in 1932 ..&quot; &quot;He married a wealthy &quot;Who was drowned within &quot;Leaving him a substantial legacy.&quot; &quot;However, no evidence &quot;That Barrington was in the Paul, darling. Reading up on something in Dad's files. It's a lovely day. Sorry about moving the picture. I wanted to change things It's old-fashioned. That's alright, mother. Paul, are you going to I haven't said anything. It isn't what you say, Why don't you like Brett? I just don't want you to How much do you know about him? Everything. He's told Paul, why are you so mistrustful? I received one of Maybe you'd better read it. He saw so much of crime and wickedness, Now I understand why you are so anxious. What is it you want to know? Has Curtis ever been married before? No, he's a bachelor. He was going to be But the girl drowned shortly Brett was terribly broken She was .. drowned? Quite a tragedy. She was so young. Well, Paul? Anything else? Where does he get his income? Oh he owns mines and things. I had Mr Allen check into all that. You see, I'm not as You're not going to marry him I don't know, Paul. I think you should wait. Well, I don't want to make you unhappy. But that is one thing I You mean .. You're going to marry him right away? But you can't. You must give me time .. For what? Well, to .. To .. to get better acquainted with him. Darling, you'll be going Your life will be occupied Paul. Try to understand. Try to be fair. Please. For my sake. Alright. You'll be down for lunch? No. Benjamin is bringing my Maybe you can play some tennis with If you just give him a You two would probably be I've got to go now. Don't work too hard, darling. Out! Why, you wretch. That did it! I'm lucky I got two games. Hello, Paul. How are you feeling? Okay. How was the boat race? Keen. The Blue Moon won. You should have come with Oh, she'll get over it. Any lunch left for me, Ben? There is sandwiches and milk in Thanks, Ben. Hello, darling. Hello, Paul. Where have you been hiding? I had some work to do. I hear you're taking law at college. Just the groundwork. Mister Curtis. Do you believe there is such It's possible. I've been reading about some He believed there were more .. Undetected criminals at large I shouldn't be surprised. The police have their limitations. What a morbid conversation. Brett, too bad you changed. You could I wouldn't have time, darling. I promised to go to Middleburgh and look Oh Brett, why couldn't we drive you up? The ride would do Paul good. That's so nice of you Virginia, but .. It'll take hours to look at contracts I'll phone when I get back. I'll walk down to the gate with you. Do, Paul. Goodbye, Brett. See you later, darling. I understand you've travelled a lot. Yes. I've always been curious about Ever been in Nevada? Yes. A magnificent country it is, too. It makes a man wish he could paint. You'd like it. What is Reno like? It's a hotchpotch of Cowboys, divorcees, mink and mustangs. Huge ranches and the real I'd like to see some of And a real silver mine. Well, I have an interest Perhaps we'll .. take a trip someday. Do you know Colorado? Quite well. Waynefield must seem pretty Hmm. I've seen pretty much I'll be glad to settle down right here. Well .. goodbye, Paul. See you tomorrow. I hope we're going So long. Hello, Charlotte. The Professor is expecting me. Mister Curtis. &quot;Send him in.&quot; Go right in. Good afternoon, Professor. Well, how does it go? There is a new development. Yes. He came home unexpectedly. Hostile? A neurotic type. Interested in criminology. He asks a lot of questions. Remarkably intelligent for his age. I have a feeling he knows Does his attitude affect her? But he is a persistent little devil. This morning he made enquiries Nothing to worry about there. Everything is in order. This afternoon, he was looking When he came downstairs .. He asked me if I believed there You'd better watch him. Has she accepted you? She hasn't yet, but she will. What is the girl's attitude? Oh, Dorothy. A complete conquest. A little beauty, too. Be careful. I've warned you before. That Don't worry. I've waited a long time to I'll make them pay for his meddling You'll do as I tell you. Don't forget, I'm in this, too. Perhaps I made a mistake. Perhaps I should have Instead of making you an associate. Don't forget I am concerned with Not your personal revenge. You have nothing to complain of. The boy is the first hitch. He sounds like a subject You might suggest it to the mother. Sometimes these cases The important thing is to get the When you are legally in possession, Funny, that thought was in my mind, too. Why wait until I'm in possession? As her husband you would be As her fiancee, such a tragedy might That's true. The stakes are high. There's a danger of Barrington is legally dead. Fortunately, so is the judge. However, fools and children Which even the most careful I had better meet the Meanwhile, you must impress her Understand? Now be careful. If you can't accomplish Our relationship shall revert I'm spending the weekend with them. I'll have her consent before Monday. Oh, that was beautiful. I give up. Brett, you've I seem to be lucky in You don't really mean that. Virginia. Why do you keep putting me off? You promised me you'd You know how much I care for you. We've both been lonely. Why should we put off the Brett, the water is wonderful. Brett. My answer is 'Yes'. When, Virginia? I'll give a dinner party You're not going to put me through No, just a dinner party. We'll slip away quietly and I'll Good. We'll elope. That sounds so young and reckless. It doesn't seem right Brett. You do like them, don't you? Like them? A handsome full-grown And you. What more could a man ask? Darling. Do you realise that .. You haven't kissed me Princess .. Brett .. Not much privacy round here, is there. That's family life. Why don't you come in for a swim? Brett, the water is wonderful. How about a swim, Virginia? Oh no, darling. You go. I want to write the dinner invitations. Is there anyone Why yes. My old friend Professor You'll enjoy meeting him. Enjoy your swim, darling. I wasn't supposed I think it is only fair you should know. Oh, I kinda suspected. I guess they didn't tell me because No. I don't either. I thought all you girls I was at first, but .. Not anymore. Aha .. No really, Paul. I mean it. Remember the other day by the pool here? Yeah. Well, Brett came for a swim. Once when I dived under, he .. I don't know how to tell you this. I haven't told anyone. What happened? Well, he .. He swam underwater. Got a stranglehold on me. And started kissing me. I know it doesn't sound like very much. It was horrible. I can't describe it. I pulled away. He followed me and .. And said he hadn't meant any harm. And asked me if I'd just I've felt sort of queer You won't mention this to him, will you. No. And don't you say anything about it. What you've told me What other things? I can't tell you now. I haven't any proof. Just a hunch. Nobody wants to believe me. I'll believe you, Paul. Thanks, sugar. Well there is Dr Vincent. You'd better run along, Lydia. Are you .. well ..? What I mean to say is .. You still like me, don't you? Oh sure. But everything is on ice Yes, alright. Only .. don't forget. Okay, funny face. Hello, Paul. They are announcing their engagement. I suspected as much. What have you found out? Nothing unfavourable in Curtis. Mr Allen gave me these answers After reading them you'll probably agree That may be so, but Lydia Would you mind coming up Not at all, Paul. Good evening Professor, Well, I was afraid You know how it is, always Oh yes. Virginia, this Mrs Cartwright. I am honored, madame. It is most gracious of you to invite me. Brett has told me so much about Thank you, madame. A happy occasion, they said. Curtis is a lucky fellow. Come in. Come in, Professor. Now I'll show you something That ties in with what Lydia told me. That's funny. This drawer was locked. Maybe you just thought you locked it. I haven't opened it since. Curtis was here, too. [ Door knocks ] May I come in? Or is Hello, doctor. The Princess wants you There is a big psycho something-or-other A friend of Brett's. You too, Paul. I don't want to go down. But Paul, you must. You can't spoil mother's party. That's right, Paul. Because Virginia was keeping score. Virginia's arithmetic is delightful. She subtracts by counting 10-9-8-7-6. That means 10 minus 5 equals 6. Well that's right, isn't it? Of course it's right. Well tell me about psychiatry, I'd love to be psychoanalysed sometime. I'd be delighted to do it. Miss Cartwright. Benjamin, Mr Curtis will carve. Well my friend, here is a chance to It's just what I've been waiting for. &quot;It's just what I've been waiting for.&quot; Sorry, I .. I don't .. feel well. Paul. You stay here, Virginia. Paul hasn't been himself lately. An extremely sensitive boy, madame. I would like to talk to him. I have been most successful It's nothing serious, Paul. What is it now? The words in my dream. Curtis said: 'It's just what I've been waiting for'. When he said that I could hear the Gosh Doc, it's spooky. It's got me. You've got to pull Now, let's look at this I understand Bill Allen is going He's known your mother all her life. Do you think he would sanction I can't figure it out. Maybe I'm going whacky Doc, Barrington is dead, Paul. But it is too fantastic. [ Door knocks ] How is the young man feeling, doctor? Oh, he's alright. He was just having a dizzy spell. Perhaps I can be of some assistance? Well, it's just a reaction Yes, I was an intense Do you mind if we have I feel alright. Perhaps the doctor had It seems a pity to spoil madame's party. I'd rather have Dr Vincent stay. Of course, I have no objection. Let's sit down and be comfortable. I understand you are Extremely talented. Do you intend to pursue your Yes. But something must be done They are not exactly normal at your age. I presume you are Of course. As one student of human May I speak frankly? Go ahead. In some cases .. Filial devotion to a mother goes It can frequently Did you say 'hallucinations'? Do not be offended. I'm merely stating a theory. Please don't agitate yourself. I'm only trying to help you. But you do. I believe it is your emotional aversion Which produce these neurotic symptoms. I'm sure I can cure you I would like you to place yourself Rest View? That's a sanatorium for mental cases. Yes, but I wouldn't consider Guest? Well, that's white of you. Goodnight .. Professor. I am sorry. I assure you I meant no offence. May I see you a moment, doctor? I'll be right back, Paul. The boy's agitation .. Reveals an emotional influence which I hope you can persuade him. I'll speak to him. Well? The same words as your It's extraordinary. Those two are mixed up Hallucinations. Do you believe that stuff? I've read about it in textbooks. He seems to think so. What else did he say, Doc? Well, he wanted me to ask you to go to You know Doc, that But I don't think it's necessary. But Doc, I might find out Yes. Paul, if .. If those two men are what you think You could come up every day and Besides, it might be a I'd make mother promise not And meanwhile, you can take these to They are fingerprints off a water glass. Curtis? I'll talk to Muhlbach. Paul, you're a very clever boy. Thanks, Doc. I'd be in a Maybe we're both crazy. Then again, maybe we're not. It's a lovely room. Isn't it, Paul? Very nice. I hope you'll find it comfortable. My routine is a simple one. A few heart-to-heart talks. Believe me, Mrs Cartwright, he'll return I'm sure he will. Goodbye, darling. Don't read too much. You'll take good care of him, Of course, madame. I'll drop in tomorrow and Please do, doctor. I'm always happy to Goodbye, Paul. I'll see you tomorrow. Goodbye, Princess. I'll see you later. Office. Could I call outside, please? I'll get the number for you. Well .. I forgot my tennis shoes. Do you happen to know I'm sure Professor Muhlbach Thanks. [ Door knocks ] Come in. Well Paul, can I help you get settled? Oh no thanks, Professor. That's a funny place to hang your coat. I got tired of looking at That's your inferiority, eh? I encourage tidiness Orderly room. Orderly mind. I hope you have a Pretty fair. Anything special you prefer? That's a nice garden you have. Gardening is my hobby. How about the rest of the place? Do you have many patients? Quite a few, but don't let You are facing in the I hope you will have I will ask you many personal questions. You must be truthful and That's important. Remember, we're friends. Just call the office Is it alright if I use the Certainly. Feel free to Thanks. I'll see you at lunch. I'd like to get Waynefield 1531 please. Hello vixen, what's mixing? Oh, Paul .. where are you? &quot;I'm up at Middleburgh getting &quot;It's all very scientific.&quot; It cures hives and hangnails It says here. Are you missing my kisses? Is that some kind of code? What please, is the significance? Young romance in the modern manner. Romance. I see. 9-3-4-9-6. 9-3-4 .. Well I can't sleep. Nightmares. I'll get you a sedative. We don't permit the patients to I'm not a patient, I'm a guest. I must admit the boy puzzles me. I can learn nothing from him I'm sure he knows you're Barrington. How he arrived at that From his father's files. I found the Barrington The boy is as persistent I won't be in the clear until I get It will be quite ironic, won't it. The elusive Barrington, married to the You won't be if Paul can help it. Right now, his main idea He's managed that already. She promised him not to There must be some way to overcome that. Find some pretext to leave town. You should have sufficient influence I will detain him here As soon as I have word from you that The troublesome opposition How do you propose to do it? I will attend to it. [ Door knocks ] Come in. Mr Curtis, ma'am. I didn't expect you so early. I have to go to Washington on business. I want you to come with me. We can stop off at I couldn't do that, Brett. Are you going to let Paul spoil Darling, don't even think such a thing. We'll turn the trip into a honeymoon. Couldn't we wait until Paul gets back? I'd feel so much better about it. Virginia, from the first moment we met, Then Paul came home Nonsense. We've announced our engagement. Let's go down and get the license Right now. I couldn't. Very well then. Just as you wish. I'll be leaving this afternoon. I'll be gone for several weeks. Brett, do you really have to go? Perhaps it will be just as well if you I want you to be sure of But I am sure. You know that. Then why not marry me and I can't help being concerned He's my own boy. But he's getting the best of care. Muhlbach will have him Let's call him up and .. find Of course, he's doing splendidly, No need to delay your marriage. Allow me to offer my felicitations. Goodbye. How long will it take you to Whose are they? He asked me to turn them over to you. He's a chip off the old block alright. The judge hung on like a bulldog That's right. I'll have these checked just Let me see. Where does Curtis hail from? Oh, he's lived in Oregon .. Nevada, Colorado .. California. They put thumbprints Curtis says he doesn't drive. Well, we won't take his word for that. Check those with Washington, Tom. And try the California License Bureau. Okay, chief. So long, Doc. I'll let you know doctor, Goodbye, Mr Armstrong, and thank you. You say the door was not locked? Why should it be? Sometimes we lock doors as a It's described in the notes here that Can you tell me about it? Only that something dangerous Do you have such dreams often? Yes. Can you remember anything The train .. my father's death. I dream of that often. I understand, of course. A shocking accident .. It preys on your mind. It wasn't an accident, Professor. It was murder. That was never proven. You have some theories on the subject? Indeed? I should be I'd rather not talk about them now, Very well, Paul. What would you like to I see you have some binoculars. They are excellent. Would Could I? They're swell. I'd like to take a good look. Come along, you can see Waynefield There is the county seat down there. From here, you can see Waynefield. Over here Paul, you can see What is that building down there? Just an abandoned farm. Over this way, Paul. See the ferry? You can almost distinguish Nice binoculars. Oh, there is Dr Vincent. We'd better go down. Would you mind going to your room? Then I shall send him to you. I am very glad you came, doctor. I'm having a little difficulty. I feel there is something on Paul's Is there something you know? All I know is, he has That he has told me. His reticence hinders my diagnosis. If you could persuade him to It would be of great assistance. I'll see what I can do. Where is Paul? Show Dr Vincent to Thank you. [ Door knocks ] Come in. Hello, Doc. Sure glad to see you. How is mother? A little worried about you, otherwise Well, Professor Muhlbach is a Fine. Look, Doc. I found something Oh yes .. yes. A great chap, Plato. As modern today as he Paul, how would you like Well that depends on Professor Muhlbach. Let's do that. Well, do you find your patient, doctor? I'd like to take him for a drive in the That is, if you have no objections. Not at all. Provided you Only half hour or so. We'll take a drive through the I trust you will urge Paul to relax. And talk more freely. I'm anxious for him to get straightened If he falls any further behind .. I'm afraid he'll overwork again. Of course. Well, come along, Paul. That was luck. He couldn't very well refuse. I saw Armstrong. And Paul. While I was at the City Hall .. I saw your mother and Curtis go into But Doc, she promised me. It hasn't been easy for me to Maybe you won't have to. What do you mean? There is an abandoned farm building I saw it from the roof. Paul, one ramshackle old Maybe. But something very strange I had a feeling that Muhlbach was going Are you sure you're not just Sure, I'm sure. And I'll tell Curtis drove himself up here last night. Curtis driving? That's strange. I know. That's why I got I thought maybe you could What's that? It looks like .. Jiminy! A part of a motor. Give me a hand, will you Doc. Why, Paul. That's the sign from the truck. Son, you've certainly That sign will certainly be We'd better take it right You'd better. I'll have to go back or You'd better stop here, Doc. No use taking any chances I don't like to see you go back in there Oh, I'll be alright. I've got If things get too hot, I'll .. I'll phone Lydia and say I'm lonesome. Alright Paul, but take it easy. I've to go home and clean up a bit. So long, Doc. Darling. Don't be angry. Surely one day doesn't I've promised Dr Stone he can marry us. You don't want me to hurt Why can't we go over there now? Why wait? We can spend tonight and tomorrow at After all, I must think of Even a man in love Alright. I'll call Dr Stone and see if He ought to be able to work us in Do you want me to call him? Dorothy. Hello, Lydia. Oh, hello. Is Dorothy home? Oh, I'd better come back later. Brett? Oh Brett, where are you? Out here, we have a visitor. Hello, Lydia. Well, goodbye. That's strange. What on earth happened? Nothing. She just came What did Doctor Stone say? Doctor Stone? Oh, yes .. he's busy all day But I made an appointment Oh good. Now, where shall we go to celebrate? Why not go to that little inn where Brett, I'd rather not go out tonight. I've got packing to do, I'll just have dinner on a tray And tell her the news. She goes back to school on Monday. I won't have another chance to see her. I hope I look forward to your exclusive Well you shouldn't It's very unlucky you know. With all the luck I have I I'll phone you later, darling. [ Door knocks ] Come in. Hello, darling. Is anything wrong? You've been crying. Just my nerves. That's all. Benjamin is going to I thought it would be nice Come on. Sit down, darling. Something is wrong. You're packing. Dorothy. Brett and I are going to Married tomorrow? For a minute, I thought Brett must go to Washington on business. It means breaking my word to Paul. That's what has me upset, I guess. I'm worried about him. Don't be foolish. After all, it's your life. Paul will mind as long as you're happy. Where is it going to be? What are you going to wear? I'm going to be there of course. Of course you are, dear. You're Oh darling, that's marvellous. What will I wear? Oh just something simple. We're to be married And then we'll leave you at the Allens. Brett and I will go to the cottage for What did he say? Did he kneel down? Of course not, silly. But he was very determined Oh, Brett is so masterful. You'll write to me, won't you? Of course. Every day. That's the story, Mr Armstrong. You must admit it's not just a I've run across some strange But this screen detection You want me? Hey, where did this come from? Paul Cartwright dug it up on an Near the Muhlbach place. Well, I'll be doggone. All we need now is the Better start a search up there. Any news on the fingerprints? Put in a call and speed it up. Miss Farber, didn't you It must answer. Lydia is Hello? Hello? What do you mean by disconnecting the I want you to be absolutely quiet. You are agitated. I was afraid your outing today I'm getting out of Not in your present condition my boy. You are hysterical. I couldn't possibly allow you Allow me? You don't think you can keep me I'm afraid that may be necessary. You seem to be forgetting All my patients are guests. Sit down my dear boy and calm yourself. Tell me. What has upset you? Was it something you found at that You followed us? I observed you from the Alright, since you know so much .. We found the truck The police ought to have I know you and Curtis Again, you are having hallucinations. [ Telephone ] Hello? Oh hello, Professor. Where have you been? I've been I went to the station for tickets. That's impossible now. Meet me in half an hour at I'll be there. I don't like to exaggerate But that place up there I'm uneasy about the boy. Why does everything take so long? It's much better than it used to be. Armstrong. Farber? The car driven by Curtis is registered That name mean anything to you, doctor? She's Muhlbach's secretary. Put a call out for it. Get going. Chief. California Motor Vehicles It matches the print taken from the body That means Curtis was killed in the And Barrington is just cunning enough Then it isn't unlikely that Curtis ..? Well, Chief. We got Buried under a ton of hay. Yep. In the tool compartment. Compare those. They match alright. They match the Curtis prints Well, are you satisfied? Go to the country club. Suspicion of murder. Cartwright case. We've got to get to that boy, Armstrong. Muhlbach and Curtis There's no telling what may have Get me the Muhlbach Don't worry, doctor. We'll Brett. Hello Dorothy. What are you doing here? The Princess told me about tomorrow. Brett, I'm so thrilled. Mother is going to let me be her I thought we might drive down to And take them to the cottage. I want to do something special. That's a charming idea, Dorothy. Well then, let's go. I was going to meet somebody here. But I'll leave a note for him. Don't be long. You sure? That's strange. Come on, doctor. My car is downstairs. Professor Muhlbach? Mr Curtis asked me to give this to you. [ Door knocks ] Open up! What's the meaning of this? How dare Sure, we know. We're just nuts Where is the Cartwright boy's room? Well, we'll just have to go You have no right to search this The District Attorney wants Paul Of course he's alive. He's in his room. First one down the hall. It's locked. No. Professor Muhlbach has the key. He is out for the evening. Slate .. take this woman into custody. Hold her as a material witness. Come on, Langdon. Paul! I'm afraid we're too late. Looking good that he got away. I hope. There is no connection here. You calling his home? No. I'm calling Lydia. I don't want to That's right. I'd better have the Hello, Lydia? Yes, this is doctor Vincent. We've been trying to get Paul is here. Hello, Doc. Oh, sure I got out. What? I knew it! Boy, this is really it. Hello, Lydia. Paul come What do you mean, wedding? Mrs Cartwright is marrying that droop How do you know? I saw Dorothy and Curtis come They drove off in her car. Mike said they're going to decorate the Curtis and Dorothy went Yes. Listen, Paul. Curtis and Dorothy have gone up What? Doc .. my sister and Curtis went up Muhlbach knows the police know. Anything Come on. Where's the car? Lydia, you better stay here. Well why doesn't somebody He must have turned off. I don't see him. Better back track. Put up your hands and get out. What's the meaning of this? This is an outrage. You must be Come along. Get in. Of course, the Princess will She can make flowers look as Well, we'd better be What about a ride in a launch? It's perfect out on the lake. There are a million stars The crescent moon looks like Brett, you are the most romantic person. Most men around here have never If they did, they'd think he was Mother is really lucky. I'm glad you think so. Why are you looking at me like that. Because you're very Why, everybody is. But I adore compliments. The best I ever got from George was .. 'Come on, you look alright'. You know Brett, I don't know what I ever saw in him. I'm really quite poetic at heart. Only it is positively lethal to let They'd simply jeer. I heard a car. Didn't you? Probably out on the main highway. Don't hold my arm so tight. Oh, I'm sorry. The steps are so uneven, Really Brett, I think we'd better not. I must be getting back. Where is your spirit of adventure? I thought you were romantic. Alright. But we won't stay long. They're here alright. There is no lights on in the house. There is a light in the boathouse! They are in here. Come on, heave .. 0h, Paul. Alright, Barrington. You meddling fool! Paul. &quot;It's clearing now.&quot; &quot;Look mother, we can see ahead.&quot; &quot;No, Virginia.&quot; &quot;Don't look back.&quot; &quot;It's all over.&quot; ..tg..