I'm heading to Porto in Portugal for a whistle tiles, tiles tiles tiles everywhere, and explore I haven't had time to plan much but offer and what food inspiration I can find. So day one in Porto, Portugal, I'm very very about, learn things taste things suck up all go and have a nice little bit of breakfast but, to have a look at this one. I mean how many Absolutely beautiful. One of the reasons I about it. I've always imagined that there would out to also be incredible here. The cafes and they're filled with freshly baked goods, full love it. Sadly I haven't got all day to try every and the clock is ticking. So we're off to meet for more than a 100 years to find out a little bit Bom dia! Bom dia hi Jamie, nice to meet you! what's your name? I'm working. Antonio. Antonio? display for instance it's like a Christmas this is a story really isn't it? You're telling the boss... Yeah of course, the boss, we need The boss is 100 years old? ...More or less. do everything. Yeah make sure you're doing your put them in with some beans and a few vegetables, and you're going to have the... You're going to another kind of bean. Right. We normally eat that like that. Yes yes. So are these in water you water, because it's so salty it's good for drink. to peel. So just peel it... then out it comes. Oh So Antonio I don't understand Portuguese but I do promotion, and there's a barrel. What is in the liquor but it's not a cherry, it's the cousin the taste is more sour and more dry. Okay so especially with the little cup of chocolate. No You put here... No! And we open the... you're so classy! No! And we drink. No you and we eat it because there's no dishes to do. So my tongue heat it up and melt it, or do I just Antonio... Is good? Antonio! This is come from? I don't know... is more less like they have some flavours they, it's incredible so well so well, from eternity. No but Antonio you've given me an edible cup. Yes. I eat the... And now I can feel the alcohol going more beautiful. Oh my god. Viva Portugal, come no no ((No no no no)). We want ginja with the ambassador's party. Oh my god. Antonio I don't you've given me a lovely little alcoholic you too! You've given my trip the most brilliant So on the edge of Porto is this little now I don't know where I'm going to eat going to happen they're all cooking outside the I know they've got amazingly fresh fish. So I excited and I've heard that everything Beautiful sardines. Hi chef! Bom dia. Look at that. Nothing more Portuguese course it's such an incredible dry heat. You fats! And the flame. I'm now deciding what I food store and cooks outside all year round, secret to this amazing cooking is even heat crisp and then finishing it off with a squeeze of keeping it simple is bliss. Filipe doesn't just the sardines and the other so yeah really nice it's that lovely dry heat. to render out and create those little which creates the flavour again. Simple food but Oho, here we go! Delicious, going straight in with fingers haha, just no time. Oh! So fresh. So good. I'm gonna use knife and sardines have actually, they've been cooked This is bread, this bread is on the grill, you're then the oil we going to pass totally different. One piece of bread? sardines on toast. Yeah. Lovely. Let's have Completely different. Just soaks delicious. Thank you very much What a beautiful day, so we've left Porto and this some of the incredible fish that they're catching Matosinhos market boldly claims to I think I'm going to have to test that claim for the market building is laid out over two butchers, bakers, and of course plenty of what I'm interested in. So we are in the fish John Dory. Look at the size of that one, my buy your fish and then the restaurants nearby quite excited about some of these. Bom dia! So [Speaking Portuguese] So we're going to have seis of those. Look at these little Dover Looks like a little shark fish. [Speaking Portuguese] Look at these little Dover bless you, thank you! She just gave me I think I've ever seen which is one of my It's a beautiful white flaky fish. The idea she's going to gut it for me, and then we'll ask them to cook it. Thank you my darling. Thank see if we can find someone to How are you my friend? Is it possible that great. Look we got one table here. We have... it's a big one. It is. Then I got Okay. What are we making, so this is what you the rice. Okay so what rice... Fresh tomato Good things are happening now so we got tomato we have a grill. So we can turn the grill on yeah? fish, make some rice. We'll use everything! These authentic cooking with the freshest ingredients, might be the most fish in the smallest amount of It's beautiful chaos, I love it ((Chaos, really Oh no it's a pleasure. What an absolute joy to be Okay, well done Fernando! So what do you want a beer and thank you very much. Not bad for believe me. So look let's just do a little plate. let's get some of those lovely clams, let's these beautiful hakes. Look at that come on we look at this beautiful gurnard I've Look at that. So there you go, a little market friend, our new friend Fernando. The best beer cheers guys. Cheers. Enjoy your meal you because when it's... Haha, thank you my little bit like little baby sharks, it's just with olive oil and salt. Such a Oh! Sweet. Sweet sweet sweet. And then I love the way they put the tail Oh my lord. Yum! Thank you Fernando! Top man. a little salt, little olive oil, we got you you can't get fresher than that so I love Porto without trying a little bit of port with all of that walking I deserve a little since 1751 and has been run always by the head wine maker Luiz Who can talk me through hopefully give me a little taste too. Lovely extraordinary! Yes. It's unbelievable. So a house. Where you are before is street. Oh That's another version of tree hugging. The 1 o'clock. Every day, port, before 11. So you're professional taster, professional taster. be doing any spitting. Oh my lord, look at Look at that. The colours are amazing. Wow. I'm kind of getting... oh, beautiful um... it's a very cozy flavour. He keeps a it's clean and it's long. Next is a that is a delicious... oh it's changing in my here is now... Look at, compare the colours. More young of course but uh with some a lot radically different I mean this journey of me when I feel those gentle tannins around very nearly up and I have really had the most drinks, and I think I've got time for just one to try a local delicacy called francesinha, it's stuffed with steak, sausage, salami, cheese, Welcome to Santiago, my name is Thiago no &quot;San&quot;. okay, so I have heard a lot about this sandwich of the francesinha is like a Portuguese they have like the the toast, the croque to Portugal. Yeah. And the first place where a restaurant Regaleira and the sandwich is just so like a steak. Yeah like a steak, cheese, ham, with the passing of the years we start putting and fresh sausage, the mortadella. Having fun trust you. You give me the version that you think Santiago with the fries by the side. Brilliant. it? Look, under the napkin is like a secret. A cheers. So the anticipation of this sandwich, it would all be seafood and uh kind of rustic I have to try it it sounds completely bonkers. Oh my god. So, enjoy your meal. Okay look, look sausage, ham, cheese. That is a proper Gordon Bennett it's bonkers. Mm! I mean it's good. Look perfectly cooked steak. Medium. You've got or ham. And then this chilli I think now is the time to attack the egg yolk. its form look at that, okay I'm getting good I'm starting to eat it properly now you've got bonkers sandwich ever. It's kind of fabulous. it's really good! Thank you very much my friend. So that was a brilliant short trip, I've learned a whole bunch of stuff that I didn't to the world of port and so much more. I had around getting filled up with love and passion I hope you picked up some inspiration