Is the universe infinite? Does it have an edge? Today we know that the universe had a beginning expanding ever since. But something that's Well, it sort of does. Information can't travel faster than light. That whose light has had time to reach us in the what we see is a sphere centered on us, the complicated - because the universe has been things whose light we can see are actually So the observable universe is a sphere It contains around 200 billion galaxies, So for us, there is an edge: We are looking This edge is really more like an edge The real universe is for sure bigger There are two options - either the universe is A finite universe means that, if you can do it. You need a lot of ice But that leads to a weird problem. Such a universe ends. And if there is an edge there should be definition is "all there is", so how could there something outside of everything even make sense? have a universe that has no border, but that still What if the universe is truly finite? Imagine an orange and a really tiny ant. skin - just as you can only see a small chunk it will eventually walk around the starting point. So the skin of an orange is The universe is not like the skin of an orange, sphere, it could be a hypersphere, where 3D-space brain to visualize unfortunately. But the hyper sphere - from our human ant perspective, our you were aboard a spaceship flying in a straight How does any of this make sense? The actual lie a bit here. But in a nutshell it all boils creates gravity by bending spacetime. This but sort of stretches on forever, like a very This could bend the whole universe in which then makes the hypersphere. If you If the universe happens to be a hypersphere, how see things disappear below the horizon and Scientists tried to find some sort of "universe cosmic sphere - but didn't see anything. Which it needs to be so big that from our perspective this to make sense, a hyperspherical universe our observable part. It could be a trillion times Some scientists thought all of this is way too The universe could be like the frosting of visualize for your brain. This, too, means you'd get back to where you started. In a hyperdonut universe there is direction. If two spaceships one could get back to the start way earlier. galaxies would do fun and confusing stuff, We could see far away things in two places different moments in time! Because its travel in one direction than the other! of you and see that same star die How big would such a hyper donut universe actually this is kind of the smallest possible than the observable universe. But it could Ok. So much for finite universes. But... What if it's truly infinite and space goes What if the universe is truly infinite? Actually, the cosmological model used by universe. We mostly use it to calculate but if taken literally, it An infinite universe goes on, well, impossible to visualize. Wherever you in every possible direction. This kind of First of all, if the universe is infinite, is Was there a time where there was nothing everywhere? Well we don't know - but we so it really seems like the universe But wait - since the big bang the an infinite thing that is everywhere just means that the distance between an infinite space can become bigger. Infinity gets much weirder though. As you you find new galaxies, stars and planets, new and new lifeforms stranger than you could ever most special thing in the universe: Yourself. An How can that be? Well, everything in existence is And a finite number of different particles can That number may be so large that it feels like If you have finite options to build full of things in all directions forever, there will likely be repetition. Although doesn't mean it will actually happen. Maybe boring stuff repeats itself endlessly. But if the laws of physics are far away gas could have given where primitive genetic information could ended up in cells and animals that evolved apes that learn how to create online videos. It Even if the chance of there being an exact is almost zero - almost zero is still Unfortunately you'll never meet. Because almost Earth as it exists right now is so unlikely, second identical Earth: Some 10 to the 10 zeros - times the size of the observable universe. Still, in a truly infinite universe, every (sighs) It's time to stop now. While these entered science philosophy here. Currently If the universe is infinite we will never know. The reality is, for us the universe is finite the edge in time. Everything we can interact with is within the observable universe and Even if this finite universe feels small to the dreams that we and our descendants can ever While we can't be sure whether many fascinating questions do have and technology - and you can learn Brilliant will make you a better thinker and lessons on just about anything you may be curious data courses that use real data to tell powerful through the chaos of truly massive data sets. maximize revenue hosting on airbnb using the to explore the distribution of galaxies a foundation that can take your We've also partnered with Brilliant to create knowledge to the next level. These lessons most popular videos, from rabies and mammalian Each lesson on Brilliant is interactive, like you can get started whenever, wherever - To get hands-on with kurzgesagt lessons and you can start your free, 30-day trial There's even an extra perk for kurzgesagt viewers: the first 200 people to use the link get 20%