What's going on? It's your girl Shaleen the Queen coming to you guys with a today. So I'm going to start with this one. Then I go up, then down, up, Delivering packages for the world's largest e-commerce company is a I've been tired, exhausted long days. Shaleen Williams, and 115,000 other package's journey, getting it that last mile to customer doorsteps. This is where I used to load out. 210 right there. We spoke with current drivers and took a ride with former driver Adrienne 2020. I would average between like 150, 180, somwtimes 190 packages. Since 2018, Amazon has been building out its network of these independent them across the U.S. now DSPs helped Amazon reach notoriety for extremely There's a lot of aspects of the job that are really enjoyable. You get a whatever the heck they ordered. But there's things that need to be fixed. From urinating in bottles to running stop signs, routes that lead drivers times, DSP drivers have voiced big concerns, largely tied to the relentless The expectation is just go go go go go at your own cost. Historically, Amazon relied heavily on UPS, the Postal Service and to a It was 2013 they had a holiday season was a fiasco in terms of late and do with Amazon dumping massive amounts of volume at the last minute on UPS we can't entrust this business entirely to other people. So Amazon built an in-house network called Amazon Logistics. It's grown to drivers, and since 2018, fleets of vans run by Delivery Service Partners or Amazon pretty much has control over the operation. It's Amazon's vans, it's entrepreneurs, they need drivers they want to control as much of the These small contractors allow Amazon to oversee deliveries in regions all Amazon fights tooth and nail to maintain the status quo that these are you've got to pay them benefits. You've got to pick up their expenses for And if Amazon's cost structure changes, so will yours,. They have a built up their operation very, very quickly, largely because instead of having to go out and hire all these people and put them on the Amazon Logistics also allowed Amazon to avoid paying outside carriers for packages through its logistics programs like DSP. We estimate that Amazon roughly spends in a $3.50 to $4 a box to deliver. $12. So we think it can be a meaningful savings to Amazon to do this Control over its own deliveries allowed Amazon to make one-day shipping the number of Prime members recently reached 200 million. Since the early days under contract to deliver for Amazon. But in 2018, Amazon went after a small businesses with fleets of 20 to 40 vans and 25 to 100 employees. To Sprinter vans to start, leasing them to DSPs at a discount. It offered American entrepreneurs and military veterans trying to launch a DSP. The which independent gig workers make between $18 and $25 an hour driving discounts on things like fuel, insurance, uniforms and electronic package else, from maintaining the vehicles to hiring drivers and providing pay, It's cheaper, it gives them more flexibility, they don't have work rules to go ahead. Amazon will not do that. Amazon offers terrific deals to people. structure that a UPS has. From washing vans to replacing vans to paying for workers that get hurt, While UPS, FedEx and the Postal Service directly employ drivers, Amazon's Ground has around 7,500 of what it calls Independent Service Providers. What Amazon's doing is a little bit different, in that they're using DSPs more mom and pop and a little smaller in nature. The DSP is responsible for recruiting and hiring drivers. Fast pace, you're not really dealing with anybody. You're doing it by something that you have to do. I mean, I guess I'll say Amazon's the best Drivers pick up their vehicles at a designated lot or Amazon warehouse, bags. All my bags are over here. And then I have my oversize over here mainly on Each package is labeled with yellow stickers that assign them a I normally always sort my first bag while I'm just waiting. And that helps sorted. So I don't have to go through and re-sort everything and take more Some DSPs also have the bigger walk-in style delivery trucks like those California. She wasn't comfortable appearing on camera. It's so much bigger, it's more room, you can spread your packages out. In DSPs also lease unmarked white vans for their drivers, although these don't Anytime you stop, any time you turn, all your packages will just fall all rummaging through things. And then that also lends the problem of slowing Amazon sets the routes and delivery loads of up to 400 packages per driver I have left 111 packages. So if I click on this map, you can kind of see my Amazon estimates it costs as little as $10,000 to start a DSP. Amazon pays $300,000. But the DSP business can be a tough one. Amazon is not about making money for anyone but Amazon. It's very hard for per parcel. And also the workload is very, very intense, you know, 10, 12, CNBC reached out to several DSP owners, although none would talk on the owners or drivers. During the pandemic, Amazon sales have smashed earnings always share in the success. Some turned to federal aid to make it through, But the pandemic was certainly a popular time for drivers to join the So I just debrief from my route today and Amazon has some snacks out for One October 2020 survey of 1,500 delivery drivers found that 63% joined in around $18 an hour, about $1.50 above the national average. Shaleen makes $20.25 an hour. Nash is trying to get a job at UPS. They pay way more. They top out at $38. They get raises every six months. not want to work for a union? And their benefits are excellent. UPS drivers belong to the Teamsters. Meanwhile, union presence at FedEx is to unionize. You will never have Amazon approach the same model as UPS does because to union work rules, union wages, gives them a lot of flexibility to pivot The arm's length relationship also gives Amazon the power to sever the insulation from the inevitable risks of the shipping industry like botched killed an 84-year-old grandmother in Chicago. Her family brought a lawsuit pressure on drivers to deliver on time. Two more deaths occurred in 2018. The little corners that you cut are very dangerous for both you and the speed limit. People are running through stop signs, running through yellow because the time it took just to buckle your seatbelt, unbuckle your A 2019 ProPublica report found Amazon's contract drivers were involved in In court Amazon has repeatedly said it's not responsible for the actions of drivers from any company. Of the 5,333 occupational deaths in the US.. in labor union coalition that analyzed data from the Occupational Safety and injuries at nearly three times the UPS rate in 2020. Amazon holds mandatory outsourcing driving to DSPs takes away Amazon's ability to control these tracks safety metrics with its Mentor app, which scores drivers on behavior scores to rank a DSP from poor to fantastic plus, offering bonuses for high It was more of an emotional drain, like a mental drain because you were Did I get caught doing something wrong? Did something get scanned say my driving on Thursday was risky. AI-enabled cameras in some vans have four lenses to watch the road, both it's recording 100% of the time. I just don't feel like I should be watched eight to ten hours out of the get into an accident, they want to see what we were doing inside the van. wrong. They could try to pin it on us. The camera's AI software can activate audio alerts if it detects one of 16 seatbelt, or pay attention to the road. Distracted driving. If I make a hard turn or something or try to grab a phone or something, Some drivers told us the cameras do provide a sense of safety under certain The camera that's facing out that can see the road, I feel that's a good there is an altercation. If the altercation is on the camera feed, you know Shaleen Williams has been bitten by dogs on her routes. Once she had to go packages. The first leg it bit, it didn't break skin or anything. But the second time and everything and then I had to go to Urgent Care after my shift. I wasn't finished my route and then went after. In a statement Amazon told CNBC, &quot;Safety is our top priority, which is why camera-based technology in our vehicles that reduces accidents by 48%. We more than 90% of drivers finish their routes before their scheduled time.&quot; So they've been driving out at a steady pace like this since 6am. Yeah, see record-breaking sales. And this means lots of deliveries and pressure When new people would come and they'd be like, Oh, I'm doing so good, we'd get 124 tomorrow, and it never ends. We can work 10-hour shifts. My heaviest day was I had 199 stops, about 320 to find the one that I need. Drivers follow routes on the Flex app, which are determined by Amazon's say the routes have made them walk across busy highways carrying armloads The route had me backtracking today a lot in the beginning. So I kind of hour shift is over. I've had days where the GPS was horrible the whole time because their GPS Locked there. Locked. Can't get in, can't get in, gate, gate, turn left to and it was triple digits outside and so my AC could never heat up and I got stuff can really be mitigated by just having a route designer that says if maybe we should let them be there in the daytime instead of 10pm in more apt to get carjacked. Thank you so much for giving me this in the In other instances, drivers have reported they don't have time to find a There were times where I didn't drink anything all day and eat anything all When you have to leave your route to go use the bathroom, by the time taking away because you're driving 14 minutes or eight minutes to go try to packages. Now that's why some people are urinating in cups and plastic bottles. The the vans or throw them in the trash or pour them out. They just kind of the next day, and seeing somebody's pee bottle sitting behind the seat or urinated in hand sanitizer bottles. So you can only imagine what it would pee. That was a talk at our stand-up meetings almost every single day. Like bottles. The conversation was never don't pee in bottles. That was never CNBC went to one gas station near an Amazon warehouse in the Bay Area where didn't want to give her last name or appear on camera in the interest of urine bottles in the trash constantly. It was a lot of dripping, it smelled It was leaking all over the freakin parking lot and everything because it Should Amazon be doing something differently? Yes, maybe they can provide porta potties around the cities for them trouble using the restroom. Amazon initially denied that workers urinate in bottles, but later said it's an industry wide issue and is not specific to Amazon. With Amazon, you have a different route every day. One day you might be in middle of nowhere. And that's where I think it's different from like FedEx have any control over your day with Amazon. Holding my pee for like two Amazon reserves the right to deactivate drivers for things like public locations. Williams decided to quit after a particularly bad day last July. I had like the day from hell and I just lost it. I had gotten like, charged It was only for like five minutes, but when you're on this strict time the three drivers got sick and they told our boss not to tell anybody?&quot; And A new feature of the Flex app pings drivers when they're supposed to take on for too many hours. I wouldn't say it's kind of any riskier or any worse or any more of a Amazon is also working to make its vehicles safer. It ordered 100,000 on the roads by 2030. Features include exterior cameras that give the space for moving around packages in the back of the van, and wraparound I think Amazon owes it to the contractors and the drivers to make sure that make 25 stops in a specific timeframe that compels the driver to take risks Adrienne Williams suggests that an Amazon employee be physically present in routes. There's a destination on my left across this water. Maybe it's too big of regionally because you're really putting drivers in dangerous situations by they're putting drivers in. And they're putting drivers in really, really like, &quot;Hey, this didn't work. You drove me into a lake. It'd be nice to not An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC it's working on addressing gaps in its fewer stops. They have to ease up on the time. Stuff happens on the road and it's not eat lunch or go to the bathroom, he or she, is a problem. People are they're so afraid of losing their jobs because they have to get these delivered in two days.