$931.4 million. That's how much the Federal bills in 2023. But there's a problem with We haven't modernized or That's probably a mistake. For example. We should have dollar coins Physical currency has but not in the US. The Nordic countries we see digital. India had a to eliminate small The rest of the world has which are a form of plastic Lasts something like four paper notes. Meanwhile, an increasing ditching cash for The Pew Research Center 2022 didn't use cash in a That number rose from 29% Still, cash demand is it's not going away. There's actually more cash ever. Cash production has been and a half to 2% for at The US government is very commerce, in addition to cash. In terms of electronic no, cash always has an So what's wrong with us? Cash? And how can we fix The $1 bill was the most for years. But in 2017, for the $100 bill surpassed the And today, 18.5 billion circulation. $1 bills are at 14.3 billion notes, and least at 1.5 billion. The $100 comes from US currency, and a lot of the country and they're value. Some speculate that the rise may also be to avoid taxes since cash can be traded I think the other argument illegal activity will find having $100 bills. Credit cards or electronic There's a way to track But I do understand wanting go about your day, and cash They don't want their wife coin for collectors, for And in the past, what currency Americans The $2 bill has lost its It was left out of the Denominations like the $2 coin. Because there was no cash registers, they became In the 1960s, the half because it wasn't included meters. The Federal Reserve has also before and tried to change America used to make things The penny wasn't always the . Bills over $100, like the discontinued in 1969 spent, and at that time, payments were on the rise. In the late 1960s, the Printing called the called the Federal Reserve, print these bills again, we There was a debate going on they thought, nobody's years. And 6 in 10 Americans say spending. The US Treasury oversees and Printing, responsible mint, where coins are made. The 2023 budget to produce million. About 28% of that labor, while 63% goes to general support, research The fed says US bills are linen, 75% cotton blend and folds before a banknote But many countries have denominations to coins to A metal dollar will last circulation. How many of us machine and tried to use a it in 5 or 6 times? You don't need to do that The rest of the world makes It's hard to find a paper dollars in most developed Japan's Y=500 coin is and Australia and Europe notes. But the US has tried In the 1920s, the Treasury dollar and the $2 bill $1 coins last a long time. $2 bills. You only have to print half It didn't go over at all. Then they tried it in the administration, people twos except to save as a People have thought about production by five. Save money. Nobody's going The fed also says inefficient and costly. The argument for the $1 the long run, but over time additives and varnishes. So now the $1 bill, I think years. Then why has every other Why has Canada done it? Why hass England done it? Why has all of Europe done Why has Japan done it? Australia, the UK and other from paper to polymer Since 1988, when Australia notes. They've become very For not going to polymer, a certain feel to it, and currency, someone inside or realize if this is a Some experts claim that the notes is a waste of money Vendors hire lobbyists to the same type of alloy for Or in the case of paper, production. If they lose jobs as an organization, There are billions of going from paper dollar printed using toxic ink for So there's an environmental Why is there a pushback in towards dollar coins, the The world that we're in and to, we're certainly not coins better. I just saw a of people said they had not week. In fact, I couldn't wallet right now. Modernizing cash is not Banknotes are extremely And then there's buried tags. And innovation is changing Those technological advances influence people's lives Making cash something that electronically. Connecting Many businesses support plus innovative ways to If you still transact in want to buy something There's a variety of stores Scan the QR code, pay in merchandise. Your electric bill comes. You can go to a Walgreens And cash is cheaper. I got my hair cut today, surcharge if I used a card. There are a lot of people don't want to spend money New York City and requiring businesses to Legislation being passed and that you cannot have a However, with the exception fed says businesses are method of payment to To access digital mechanisms either through a smartphone connection. Not quite there Give the American people Cash - it's been around for its job really well.