- We'd all like to increase but the truth is suffering, even collective suffering is often the earmark that - There's stuff that life throws back at you that you can't control. - Resilience is absolutely critical to accomplishing your mission. - I had a choice in whether to give up. I had a choice in whether to - Difficult experiences are part of life. They're part of our simply by virtue of being here. - What doesn't kill That gets at the idea, the psychological principle It's a wonderful term. That's actually a clunky, ugly term, but it was made up by Nassim Taleb because we don't have a word which is that there are some if they get pushed around, knocked around. So a wine glass is fragile- if you knock it over, it A plastic cup is resilient. If a kid throws it off the but nothing good happens. But there's some things that have to get thrown off the table. There's some systems that things like the banking where it gets fragile and collapses. Bones have to be tested, If you were to fly to Mars, The immune system, if you if you keep them in a sterile environment, you're damaging the immune system. The immune system has to face - Life's beauty is inseparable You are healthy until you are not. You are with the people that You have a job that you love until, for some reason, that It is really important we develop our capacity and emotions in a way in a way that embraces them and is with them and is - The old idea of happiness, that the Stoics sort of enjoyed, was that happiness was So this is really all about a recipe for avoiding unnecessary So you don't try and control Now the only things you can and your actions, and that is it. That's it. And if you accept the idea of your thoughts and actions as they are, and you let into your soul, then you for avoiding unnecessary The opposite of all of this thinking is the American obsession, forgive me, with positive that you can, by believing in yourself and setting your goals, crank the world up into line with with your aims. And the reality is, we just can't. - I do have concerns about the overarching societal messaging that we are hearing, which is that we should that we should choose to be happy, and that we should think positive. Now, just to be clear, but what I am concerned about is that I think what it is is setting people up for Let me explain why: First, what we know is and time again on being happier, when they value that idea of being happy, there's a body of research that shows that those individuals over Now, why is this? One of the things that I talk about in my book &quot;Emotional Agility&quot; is the idea that expectations are When we overvalue the idea we essentially set ourselves every disappointment as a marker of, and proof of, the fact that we aren't achieving So in a very strange is not ultimately the - You know, I flew in and we're here in New York, and something that I'll and over is &quot;Resist nothing,&quot; but to me it's a real key to Richard Rohr says, &quot;Love is learning to say yes to what is.&quot; And that is one of the of this sort of thought prism, is learning to say yes to what is. As Eckhart Tolle says, &quot;It's madness to resist what's happening.&quot; It is madness. Obviously, if you can change something, if something is unpleasant and you can pivot, yeah, resist, resist- like, I'm all for that. But if your flight is delayed, you can watch people start suffering. So, there's an unpleasant thing happening: a flight has been delayed, but the suffering happens when you start, and you can watch this and myself call the 'witness plays.' You watch yourself constructing a story, and this is where suffering comes. It's your attachment to how And of course, I still do this. Please don't think- I'm sitting in a chair, I'm not floating. But you see the story begin to happen, and you go, &quot;Delta or They're always doing this.&quot; That's like the first level. And then you start going like, &quot;I'm going to miss this thing,&quot; or, &quot;I'm going to be late to the dinner.&quot; And, &quot;Damn it, my ticket costs this much.&quot; And you know, this is the Really, something has happened. The flight is delayed. Maybe it was completely You need to find a quiet place inside where just the fundamental fact that you are participating and dignity to draw upon at any moment. You only change through suffering. Otherwise, why would you change? Why would you change? It's working. - The things I learned about resilience through my time in prison I believe by nature, are very resilient. And oftentimes we don't until we're faced with obstacles and circumstance that And it looks different for everybody. You know, when I think I went through some very I had some significant including, you know, long-term which they estimate is designed after 90 days. And what I found in that environment is that people figure out ways to cope and to survive when And for me, I found that I was very was against the wall. If you acknowledge what and you recognize that it is an obstacle- that it's that dark moment- but you also realize there's of that tunnel, then you can get through. And to me, I think hope is probably the As long as you have hope, you can come out on the Once you dim the light of hope, there's no possibility of you And to me, I think that's I always looked at, &quot;If I of the pain, then I can get And that's how I live my life. And to me, you know, those things embody what I would think three things, toward being resilient is Optimism is such a integral part of getting through adversity. I would say a second thing and figuring out in your environment what are things you can with whatever it is you're going through? And then I think the third you have to have memory loss. I know that probably sounds crazy, right? But what I've found is that a lot of times we replay memories over and over in our head. And what that does is And so, once you begin and recognize that you can or that time, or that experience- then you can move forward in life. You know, because now off your feet and you're And I think in order to be resilient, you have to not be thinking and you really just have to be focused on what you need to do to move forward. - The first step of honing and strengthening our resilience muscles is to take the first step into into the uncertainty, that all of us- including the leader- have within themselves. It doesn't have to be a big step. You're not, you know, you're in a tall bound, you don't or a wand or Gandalf's magic You do have the ability to And the wonderful thing over time of leaders of these people get more resilient, and a little bit quicker about stepping into the about stepping into the fear and so it's accretive. It's about the mileage of moving into our fear just with a tiny squaring our shoulders, moving into it, and then getting more access getting more access to our resilience. So resilience is absolutely critical. And yet, I am absolutely certain that it doesn't come from on high, we can't download it on our iPhones, but we can discover it within ourselves, and develop it within and easier to get each - Get smarter faster with videos from the world's biggest thinkers. To learn even more from the world's biggest thinkers, get Big Think+ for your business.