At the center of this big factory in the Netherlands, in the midst of a whole world has come to rely on. You can see an EUV machine right behind me. The size of a city bus, but working with atomic level precision, these EUV microchip that powers the modern digital age: data centers, cars and every We are the only provider on the planet of this critical technology. These machines are the only way to print miniscule designs on these chips. Advanced Semiconductor Materials Lithography, or ASML. Today, ASML has a monopoly on the fabrication of EUV lithography machines, single advanced processor chip that we use today. And this company is one they produce, each one of them is among the most complicated devices ever In the midst of a chip shortage that's caused backorders of everything from skyrocketed since 2018. While it's three main customers, chipmakers TSMC, technology. The price tag for this next machine, which promises to push the It's so expensive that most companies cannot afford it. While the chip was rage on, we wanted to find out what's really going on This is the optical part of the machine that makes EUV possible. We got a rare tour inside ASML's cleanrooms in California and the molten tin, and the smoothest surface in the world to bring our digital age ASML's crucial role on the chipmaking stage has brought it wild success of the biggest chipmakers it supplies. It's double digit growth every year. We're not a startup. No, we have now Peter Wennink has been CEO since 2013. But he joined ASML back in 1999, Dutch electronics giant Philips in 1984, conducting research out of a leaky They were in financial dire straits, so we had no money. We were poor. And outfit out there that was trying to do something crazy, so they neglected Still, in its first year, the company successfully launched a designs on silicon to make microchips, a technology known as lithography. The first lithography tool really looked like a projector. There is there is an optical system, which is going to take this image and project Semiconductor lithography was invented in a U.S. military lab and for a based in New England. Chris Miller of Tufts University is writing a book called, &quot;The Chip War: When the industry was getting ready to jump into the early stages of EUV would be an expensive and risky proposition, whereas ASML was. By 1988, ASML had five U.S. offices with 84 employees and a new Dutch took a tour earlier this month. We're walking through the EUV factory, which is about 50,000 square meters produce 100% of the EUV machines shipped worldwide from this facility. With a breakthrough machine, ASML started turning a profit and went public acquiring California tech companies like Silicon Valley Group, and various the cleanroom where ASML's light source is produced. So this is actually the nozzle manufacturing area where we actually build what's going to create your EUV. EUV refers to extreme ultraviolet, an incredibly short wavelength of light revolutionary technology was incredibly expensive. We didn't have the money. So we went out and we found partners, which forced to be a system architect and a system integrator. In 2012, ASML offered about a quarter of its shares to its biggest three TSMC. They had to accelerate the r&amp;d for EUV and the only way they could do this commitment real is to make them a shareholder. ASML is a Dutch company, but it's also a Dutch company that relies very point, relies also very heavily on one Taiwanese customer for its sales. TSMC made up nearly 40% of ASML's sales last year. In 2019. The Taiwanese milestone that's kept it at the head of the pack ever since, its chip And it has been TSMC's customers that have gained a lot of benefit, like expense of Intel not executing. Intel is just now producing its first chips with EUV this year, three years investment to secure the first prototype of ASML's next machine, High hinges on ASML, let's take a look at how EUV lithography revolutionized When you start breaking down, what does it take to make an EUV lithography involved. Chips are made from silicone, an abundant element found in rocks and sand, on which chips are built in a grid formation. Each wafer can have dozens of chips can do. These layers are printed using lithography. Extremely precise light hits the surface of the wafers, which have been coated with extremely high volumes. If you think of a typical processor chip in an iPhone, for example, will or more iPhones for each model that's rolled out. So you're already talking As the wavelength of the light source in making chips gets narrower and which means the chip is faster, the chip can be smaller, the power The smallest transistors are more than 10,000 times thinner than a human printing at the very edge of known physics. With the help of customer create large amounts of extreme ultraviolet light with a wavelength so natural substances, even air, so the entire process has to happen in a is the size of just five DNA strands lead side-by-side. The previous of 193 nanometers. The vast majority of ASML's business 268 of the 309 less advanced chips which are in shortest supply. DUV is for anything that is low technology like a toaster, or refrigerator, Both DUV and EUV lithography is so advanced, it requires precision down to This is an EUV cabin of our cleanroom, which is 10,000 times cleaner than the environment, but we're protecting the machine from the contamination This tiny threat may look like the strand of a spiderweb, but it's actually light is created. This is continuous tin. It never ever, ever stops. The tin is streaming through a perfectly calibrated nozzle which we saw kilowatt carbon dioxide laser hits each droplet twice per second, EUV light. A huge number of tin explosions need to happen because only short they get absorbed by mirrors, the typical method used to precisely Zeiss, which makes the flattest surface in the world. The flatness is really just incredible. If you took a mirror element that in, the biggest bump would only be about one millimeter across the entire EUV light bounces off these groundbreaking Zeiss mirrors until it hits miniscule designs that make up the chips. The aim needs to be so precise, the earth. So your tin is inside a reservoir here, and then you're firing out this Pete Mayol has been running this cleanroom for six years. If any kind of defect particle whatsoever is even on the tip of that And the speed and scale at which this has to happen is staggering. ASML hundreds of chips on a 300 millimeter wafer, and up to 10 billion They take extraordinary achievements of engineering and physics, and enough cost where these machines can be used in chip fabs to churn out A completed EUV machine is actually made up of seven different modules, locations around the world, then shipped to and reassembled in Veldhoven trucks and three fully loaded 747s. In 2021, ASML sold 42 EUV machines, machine costing up to $200 million, only five customers can afford to buy making up nearly 84% of ASML's business. It certainly has eliminated a lot of players out of that market. So we saw pursue a seven-nanometer chip. The handful of huge customers it does have are furiously adding capacity to We got a lot of messages from our suppliers that said, hey, we might be And we said, if we cannot get the chips, we cannot make the machines to fingers crossed. But it's a daily struggle. The question is, can ASML keep up with demand? I think the answer is probably yes. Maybe the growth will exceed even their production, which is I think good news if you're worried about a chip The world needs more chips, so we need to make more machines, which by the cost per transistor down, which is exactly what we've been doing for the Before EUV, chipmakers had three companies they could choose from for their competitor for DUV, but ASML is the only option for EUV. Experts say it ASML's proprietary tech, but because it's built complex, often exclusive, And we're unique to our customers, like some of our suppliers are unique to than being married because you cannot divorce. It takes 10 years to not only get the technology but then be accepted. So One of the ways ASML has insulated itself against supply chain risks is by out there in January. But Wennink says it won't significantly impact system annual revenue growth rate of 11% until the end of the decade. It's actually driven by you. You're asking for more solutions that will productive. We're changing into a sensing world. There are sensors PC, they're everywhere. Sensors, they need semiconductors. All of the world's most advanced semiconductors are made in Asia by two of raised concerns about overseas dependency. This is why you see all these initiatives around the globe: the U.S. CHIPS Chinese Chips Act. It's now a very strategic commodity. Intel just announced a $20 billion chip fab in Ohio. And it's also building make advanced chips in the U.S. for the first time. And Samsung is building proposed the CHIPA Act, with $52 billion in subsidies for chip companies to It means that we need to ship our machines sooner, earlier, and at higher it's people. I think that's where the biggest challenge will be. But this movement toward domestic production has another side that poses a China. China has wanted to get into that race. But there's been politically technology as other companies. As far back as 2018, the Trump administration reportedly pressed ASML not to China. 43, 42 countries around the globe have agreed to put export control choice of governments. ASML also refurbishes older lithography systems and sends many of those to the 90s. 96% of all the machines we ever sold, we ever shipped, are still working. There's a lot of debate about whether selling additional DUV equipment to ability to manufacture close-to-cutting-edge semiconductors. So I think that are imposed on ASML's ability to sell DUV equipment to China as well. If export controls were expanded to include DUV machines, it could greatly This is where the biggest demand is. This is where the exponential curve whether it's in Korea or in China, to just keep adding capacity. Let's go look at the big boy. And then there's the question of whether demand for the most advanced chips generation EUV machine, High NA. This is the machine Intel announced it This is the EXE 5000. So this is what we'll be testing for High NA.This But even now, before the bigger, better machines, the whole world's What can really get in the way is the geopolitics like the Russia and the of course, not only hurt us, but hurt the world economy. But apart from execution. And we will keep shrinking the cost per transistor and we will to stop.