(bright music) - [Presenter] Video game secrets and Easter eggs are often tricky to find, but here are some that took We've kind of touched on but we figured we'd round up We got a whopping 25 examples and stuff linked in a But let's get started off with number 25. Now, &quot;Fallout&quot; games are so and secrets that some of them Take this Easter egg for example. We'd wager that a lot of people found it, but just didn't get the reference at all, and there were like three of them stacked on top of each other. This one wasn't even discovered. It was actually revealed by the guy who made it, Joel Burgess. The first part of the Easter egg is maybe the most well-known if you manage to find This whole secret is called the Vitale Pumphouse, that requires the most of all time, 0451. (button clicks) (door opens) Inside is a skeleton and a gun. The gun is called The Gainer, which is meant to be a and fellow game dev, Steve Gaynor. The skeleton is a reference as well. It's an opposed, similar from the game, &quot;Snatcher&quot;, of infamous game developer, Hideo Kojima. So, there's a lot of layers to this one that we'd probably never get if the guy who made it didn't just come out and explain what it was all meant to be. (tense music) (gun firing) - [Character 1] Reacquired. - [Presenter] Now, next over at number 24, &quot;The Last of Us&quot; cordyceps Easter egg. There's a secret in the that's been hiding for seven years, discovered by Anthony Calabrese and created by game who all but confirmed through a kind of convoluted you can make it, so of a cordyceps-infected ant will appear on the TV Now, what you have to do to make the image appear is so arbitrary. No wonder nobody really found this thing. You have to go into the bedroom, then quit the game and load the auto save, then go back up the stairs and for some reason, the It's all messed up and weird and gross. These are the kinds of Easter eggs it takes years for people to find, like one where you just have even if it doesn't make sense, and hope that something happens. (dog braking) Now, next, at number 23, and the spinning heart. Sometimes, Easter eggs are so secret that they're not even meant to be found. This was created by &quot;Black Drew Marlowe, who explicitly said that this wasn't meant to It went three years The thing is, it was The only way anyone even knew it existed was through decompiling the game code and figuring out the triggers from there. Multiple individuals came together to actually find this thing that is credited on this Reddit So, they deserve all the The steps you have to follow to trigger this thing are Just look at these instructions. They're ridiculous and even when you know exactly what to do. If you manage to do everything right, then you get this nice little tribute to the game devs family, complete with a spinning heart object. Isn't that nice? (character shrieking) Now, next over at number 22, even games as big as &quot;GTA V&quot; can have secrets that This one took only about but considering how hugely and still is, is pretty impressive. Discovered, at least as far as I know, by a Twitter user named, KarmaIngram1, there's a phone number that you can call that triggers a random That's all it does. (button clicking) (bomb explodes) And it's a completely random number. I have no idea how they found it. Maybe just from randomly guessing codes, but hey, either way, this was eventually found to be a thing. This has nothing to do with the actual big mystery of &quot;GTA V&quot;, the whole Mount Chiliad secret we've talked about a million times. But with that never really we're stuck with the Easter It's nothing incredible, but it's shocking that it went undiscovered just by the sheer number (keypad clicking) (bomb explodes) (character screaming) Now, next at number 21, and the Uncle Sam Easter egg. This is a game obviously that's just like a treasure Every time it seems someone else somehow manages to find one hiding somewhere else. This is a relatively small Easter egg and it's one that people have at least been aware of for a while. Some people managed to after digging through the game files, but it didn't become widely known until a YouTuber named xLetalis made a video about it in early 2024. They technically didn't find this though at a Reddit user posted about this find a few months before their video. But either way, this is an Easter egg that went relatively Yes, it's been that long So, to see this one, you of the office in Novigrad and you'll find this texture on the wall with a pointing guard and a message that says CDPR needs you. It's a parody of those recruitment posters featuring Uncle Sam and it's just hiding in a Now, down at number 20, the &quot;Resident Evil 4&quot; mystery person. Discovered by a YouTuber there's a mysterious if you look extremely closely at a specific spot after the cut scene where the helicopter crashes Playing the game normally, even if you know exactly where to look. Of course, with the game players have just used a no clip mode to get a closer look at this guy, which appears to just be a (footsteps pattering) Nobody knows exactly who or why they're in the game at all. If it's a dev, then it's not anybody people So, the actual name of this It took 12 years for anyone and we still don't know who it's meant to be or why it's here. I love a good mystery like this. Now, at number 19, it's and the Calendar Man's secret date. Now, it took almost a year for anyone to find the Hidden Room and that was only answered through dev's heavily hinted Players managed to find most including a hidden room, But there was one secret that went unnoticed for I Once again, it took the developers heavily hinting at it for it to be found. In Arkham City, you can find Calendar man locked Depending on the day, and players pretty quickly discovered all the obvious ones like Christmas, New Year's, Easter, stuff like that. There was one message This one was only said if to the day Rock Steady was founded, and not just in the month and If done correctly, Calendar about being there in the beginning and being there in the end. - I was there at your beginning, and I will be there at your end. - [Presenter] Which ended up as you can spot Calendar Man in the crowd during the golden ending for the final game in the Pretty wild, huh? Now, next, over number 18, we have &quot;Gears 3&quot; and the locust hunt. You'd think Easter eggs obsessives would have found everything in something like &quot;Gears of War 3&quot;, these games love their little secrets. But for whatever reason, this one took five years Credit for the discovery who explains in a video What you have to do is in the level, House of Sand. If you do it in the right order, then you'll trigger this That's like a take on &quot;Duck Hunt&quot;. (character screaming) (gun firing) (gun firing) (character evil laughs) Now, it's a pretty elaborate and new game mechanics and everything. Usually, you don't see this kind of effort put in this small of an Easter egg. But &quot;Gears&quot; games always when it comes to this We have &quot;NieR: Automata&quot; This was discovered by Lance McDonald while exploring the game's code, and this secret allows players of the game all the way to the, quote, unquote, &quot;true ending&quot;, starting off at the end credits. This method to unlock the and probably why it went undiscovered or unnoticed for so long. As stated by the director it was 3 years and 10 months before this final secret was discovered. The trick here is that you of the prologue, then of barrels in the boss room. Then, you need to input a special code, which as some people have pointed out, was also in another platinum And if you do it right, then you've skipped - [Character 2] Have anything Who are suffering because they (notification chimes) - [Presenter] It's not and it's completely meaningless if you're playing the because it literally just skip But for people who want to of unorthodox climax again, well, this code maybe will save you some time. (robust music) Next, over number 16, sometimes to be found, and other times, they're absolutely supposed to be found. But just again, for whatever And this secret remained hidden in &quot;Mass Effect 3&quot; for nearly 10 years and wasn't widely known who put the secret in went on To trigger this secret, you have to walk through the solar panels at the start of the Mars And if you do, then the Mars Rover will roll up to you and Now, this is one of those Easter eggs clearly they put some effort into. It's a new model and it has But I guess the method defining it was just a little too hidden, because &quot;Mass Effect Legendary Edition&quot; came out before this secret (tense music) Now, over at number 15, I mean, Bungie loved putting and Easter eggs in their games that seemed to be designed primarily to entertain the developers, the people behind the scenes. Take this one for example. If you set your console and start the game, then you can use the thumbs sticks to pan down and see a secret message that just says, Happy Birthday, Lauren. This was put into the game by programmer, Adrian Perez, for his wife. Bungie actually hinted at So, it's likely that but it wasn't widely known until a YouTuber named Lord Zedd posted a popular video about it. This was seven or eight years after &quot;Halo 3&quot; originally came out. So, this is one Easter egg that Now over at number 14, one of the most popular of all time, &quot;Punch-Out!!&quot;, is a game people have figured out really front to back, the top to bottom. But even with all that scrutiny, that managed to slip through the cracks. It took a whopping 29 years but if certain fights, if to the bearded man in the crowd to the left of the fighters, he'll nod at the exact right moment for you to hit a knockout punch. (video game effects whirring) The circumstances to trigger than just waiting for the guy to nod. But if everything actually then it'll work every time. This one was discovered by a YouTuber named Midwestern Housewives and all the props go to them. Next over at number 13, hidden in the pretty good co-op campaign for the previous gen version of &quot;Splinter Cell: Double Agent is this elaborate &quot;Call of which has multiple steps that It took more than four years for anyone to properly So, credit for finding if I'm saying that right, who has unfortunately probably because it was posted on Vimeo. There was a time when people like this on Vimeo, but YouTube took over. But anyway, it just so happens that Julian wasn't some random guy. He was with his friend who was the level designer It really is a complex thing and vending machines and And then, there are even dead ends. So, if you give the seal the wrong thing, then you'll fail the quest. Yeah, I forgot to mention there are seals, like literal seals, like the animals. (footsteps pattering) (triumphant music) You are helping out five baby alien seals and trying to get them This is probably the most and nobody even knew about it until the actual and explained the whole thing. Next over at number 12, this more difficult as a secret boss in but there was actually a that remained hidden for nearly 25 years. Seriously, there's a secret character in &quot;Street Fighter&quot; that It wasn't until a modder named, Gizaha, reverse engineered the game to discover the steps Now, the requirements are You have to beat arcade mode, then start the game over, select the mode, and hold down a certain button combo on the second controller. Then, select Akuma and hold down start plus another button to actually get this Shin Akuma. (attack slams) - [Announcer 1] KO! - [Presenter] It's a marvel. This thing went undiscovered for so long, 'cause everybody loves &quot;Street Fighter&quot;. At least some people knew about it though. Like there's a Twitter post from Yamada Arthur But this secret was Now, number 11, let's talk It's no surprise that the would sneak in a metro Easter They did work on the before making &quot;Donkey and &quot;Tropical Freeze&quot;. But most people found the and then assumed that was all there was. It took four years for someone to find the other Metroid Easter egg. Credit to this discovery who managed to find the hiding in the background of level 4-3. The trick to making it appear is to go through this underwater tunnel, then turn around, and So, to get to where the Metroid is, you have to deliberately take damage. It's an intuitive and easy to miss secret, but that's why it was so hard to find. And there it is. Next over at number 10, it's &quot;The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker&quot; and a secret method to instantly kill the This stuff, called forest water, which is part of a side quest here, it doesn't to have any useful functions, but if you collect it and hold onto it through the entire Forbidden Woods area, then you can use it on a This wasn't widely known until a YouTuber named fish_waffle65 attempted the trick and it somehow worked. (video game effects chiming) (video game effects chiming continues) You gotta be careful with the water, 'cause one wrong move and you'll lose it. But if you wanna kill the then just pour some water on it. This one wasn't known after &quot;Wind Waker&quot; came out, which is a long time for anything, but especially a Nintendo Now, at number nine, let's talk about the for PlayStation 1. It was developed by Neversoft, the guys behind &quot;Tony Hawk's Pro Skater&quot;. This game remains a fan favorite all the years to years later. So, it's actually pretty shocking that there's actually a secret in the game that nobody knew about It's not even all that hard to find. It's just one of those things that just happened to slip by unnoticed. To find it, just go to the find this section of wall, It'll move to reveal a low (robust music) Now, credit for this discovery seems to go to Reddit user, Luge 95 Ramos. Like a few of these, people probably did find this but it wasn't widely documented anywhere, and most guides didn't mention it until he posted a video about it. One user in the comments which makes sense, because but for the most part, or at least widely undocumented Next over at number eight, one of the all-time great Easter eggs went relatively unnoticed for years. It wasn't until 2010, nine years after &quot;Wave did people finally find out the evil or sarcastic announcer. Now, as far as we can tell, goes to a NeoGAF forum who just dropped this code out of nowhere. They don't explain how they found it. I have no idea how they did. It just exists. It's out there now. Maybe he's a developer, I don't know. So, change the audio wave and input the code and the announcer will switch from being the generically you're used to, and now insulting you left and right, - [Announcer 2] Ooh, a turbo. (speedboat humming) Super. You are about one second ahead So (faintly speaks) on the left. You're wasting my time. (speedboat humming) Waste of time. - [Presenter] Next, over at number seven, let's talk &quot;Black Ops II&quot; and Thor's hammer Easter egg This Easter egg wasn't unknown, but it took a long time for anyone to finally figure out what to do with it. In one of the earliest levels of &quot;Black Ops II&quot; in the campaign, you can find Thor's hammer in a little cave behind some bushes. (thunder rumbles) When you interact with that says that you are not worthy. For years, it seemed like but about seven years players finally figured out the trick. Credit goes to YouTuber, ManuWesker, for putting in the work for finding this. So, with the help of fans, they managed to figure is to reach the stairs near the hammer without being noticed. You have to play stealthily until the alarms go off automatically. Then, Thor's hammer will actually work. All it does is give you and only the Titus 6, which isn't bad, but it it is not great. Hey, not every Easter egg that takes years to find is actually worth Next at number six, you You know that cute little multiplayer game it's supposed to be for all ages, but it's got a vulgar secret These games have their own language, and it took a group of dedicated players around five years to fully decipher it. The hardest part was finding and translation efforts weren't made easy. But the many parts of the game where the language is just nonsense or translates just to filler text. Most of the text on But there are some like the language on the This is Jelfonzo, and he cycles between of apparel when he pops up, but there's one that's a white If you take the text on that shirt and translate it to English, you get FU. It's a &quot;Splatoon&quot; shirt that Now, a lot of people worked They did a great job, but it seems like the person responsible for finding the shirt text was a Twitter user named rassicas. Now, over at number five, Found in the dream level, You can shoot it for a secret, but there's another little Easter egg here that nobody noticed for around 15 years. At least that's the case which claims that this The trick to triggering the secret is to find the giant crab float, but instead of shooting it, just aim at it with your sniper scope If done correctly, you'll attack its weak point for massive damage, which is of course, a rib on the E3 2006 Sony press conference that will live on an infamy, you know, giant enemy - &quot;Genji 2&quot; is an ashen game, which is based on Japanese history. The stages of the game will which took, actually took So, here's this giant enemy crab attack its weak point for massive damage. - [Presenter] Now, &quot;Silent Hill 2&quot;, it took almost 17 years for anyone to discover this specific one. So, Twitter user, punk_7890, that unlock bonus features in the game. Some of these people were aware of, they just didn't know how Previously, these features were Nobody knew how to actually use them. The two hidden features are a mini map and the ability to save anywhere, which requires some pretty The real kicker is that those codes can only be used after finishing the secret So, there are a lot of restrictions for some features that of interesting rather (tensed music) Next, at number three, we have Mario hidden in Now, in 1985, the Nintendo-Sega So, this is pretty unexpected. This game, &quot;Astal&quot;, was Its pixel art was some and while it's mostly it was kind of a big deal It took 26 years though but Twitter user, yoshinokentarou, managed to dig through the game files where they discovered this very These days with first on rival hardware all the time, this might not seem like a big deal, but back then, any crossover between something like Sega It was forbidden. It So, seeing a different version of Mario in a Sega it's just kind of interesting and weird. (character grunts) Now over at number two, the &quot;Titanfall&quot; Timecop Easter egg. It took six years and the help of the developers for this Easter egg to finally be found. It started with Apex Legends leaving clues online from the guy who made the Easter egg. Only a day later, a speed runner named, nextracer11, found the secret hidden in Now, the trick here is that you have to go to a certain spot, which in one timeline is a burning pit of fire, and shift time 88 times in a row. Done correctly, it'll make a door appear, which has a room with a bizarre tableau. (door cranks) (gun fires) So, if you've seen the movie &quot;Timecop&quot;, you might recognize what It's a scene where Van and electrocutes the bad guy, which sounds ridiculous because it is. But the movie rules and Now at number one, &quot;Spitfire&quot; Channel F. It took around 42 years for The game was &quot;Spitfire&quot;, like I said, and it was a game for a relatively obscure console It cost 170 bucks back then, which is now we believe It's expensive, but The only way this Easter egg was found was by looking at the of raw pixel images and So, people doing this which could be inputted by pressing three on the start screen. The password is long. It's like 48 individual characters, so there's no way anyone could guess it. And what do you get for all that trouble? A message that says, It was 1977. What did you expect? A big, crazy thing? Yes, it's technically but it's an important achievement because it's actually older than the first reported by like two years. Most say that the first Easter &quot;Adventure&quot;, from 1979, but and neither was &quot;Spitfire&quot;. The 1973 game, &quot;Moonlander&quot; at least as far we know. &quot;Moonlander's&quot; secret wasn't while &quot;Spitfire's&quot; secret very much was. It didn't even work on original hardware. It only works if you But if you wanna read up on it, it'll be linked into It's a great story with and all of these are, so what you think of these 25 Easter eggs that took a long time to discover. Be it fans on their own or with the help of the games creators, let's talk about this stuff. Now, if you like this video with us every single day, click on the like It really helps us. And if you're new, consider subscribing, maybe hitting the notification bell, because we put out But as always, thanks for watching and we'll see you guys next time.