(upbeat music) - When I was a kid back in the '70s, I was allowed to eat a once in a great while as a real treat, and I loved them in those Now, I haven't had one and that's probably a good thing, because today Lan's gonna show me how to make one from scratch. - Oh Julia, hand pies are so much better than regular pies, right? - Well, I like that you you just maybe need a napkin. - We're gonna make hand pies today that are really neat to eat, with flavor, lots and lots - Mm, I'm in. - All right, let's start with the filling. - Okay. - I've got sweet cherries here, and I'm actually using frozen cherries. I let these defrost. I cut them into half inch pieces, and they're just gonna That was 10 ounces. I'm adding a third of a cup of sugar and 1/8th of a teaspoon of salt. Now I'm gonna mash about and the reason I'm doing all of the cherries whole, and so you can't cram into each hand pie. But we only want to mash That looks pretty good. Turn this up to medium, and for about five minutes. I'm looking for the and the sugar to dissolve. And the reason I love all the juices come out when they defrost, so you don't really have to be as careful about heating things through. If we were using fresh you'd have to cook them more carefully to make sure those juices get drawn out. Now, I'm thickening those I'm gonna take my four and stir it into two So it's been five minutes. This sugar is totally dissolved, and I'm just going to And I'm gonna let this After it does that, I'll just until that juice thickens up. You can see it bubbling, and those juices are already thickening. This looks great. - Looks delicious. - Yeah, let's get this out of here. Now, when I was working on a couple of different fillings. There's a peach one that I just love, and there's a pineapple one - [Julia] And you can find - Now, this has to cool so it doesn't melt the I'm gonna pop this in the You can make this up - [Julia] Okay. - Hey there fellow fans of cooking. Want to stay in the know? Visit AmericasTestKitchen.com and sign up for our free &quot;Notes from the Get exclusive tips, seasonal recipes, product reviews, and more Sign up for free at - Are you ready to make some pie dough? - I am. - All right. We're gonna do this by hand. - Okay. - This is a rough puff. You kind of have stacks of and I'm starting with a one gallon heavy duty zipper lock bag. - You're making the dough in the bag. - Yes. - That's interesting. I've never seen this done before. - It's a lot of fun. You'll like this. I've got two and a half cups of flour, and I like to actually because using the right amount - [Julia] It's all purpose flour? - Yes, so 12 and a half Next up, two tablespoons and 1 teaspoon of table salt. - Okay, I'm with you. - (laughs) We'll just (bag crinkling) Next up, our butter. This is two and half Cut it the long way. It's straight from the Now, I'll seal this up, and I'm gonna work most of the air out. You don't have to get all the air out. And we'll give this a shake (bag crinkling) Now that my butter is at the bottom of the bag, because this butter's still fairly hard. Rolling the pin would just and I want to flatten this And as we're doing this, sticking to the bag, I'll just pick it up and give it a shake to move it around. Then we can just roll large flakes, maybe an eighth of an inch thick. - [Julia] Okay. - [Lan] Once it's gotten how it's softened up a little bit. - [Julia] Oh yeah. - Now rolling is really easy, and we're gonna switch to that. I'm gonna continue to flatten the butter, make butter sheets in that will puff when we bake this to give us our flaky layers. This looks great. Let me dump this out into a bowl. I have three quarters Because we weighed the flour, we can just add all of this all at once. - [Julia] I love that. - Now I'll give this a quick So now that I don't have any we're gonna work this on the board. We're gonna generously flour this counter, and what I want to do is pat this mixture into an eight inch I'm gonna roll this into I'm gonna keep the short side And I'm not worried about the fact that it's looking a Now I'll use that same bench and it's kind of the fold you'd So let's give this a quick spin, and we're gonna repeat that folding step, and that's gonna build So it's a 90 degree this has already come You don't see discrete pieces of butter. When you have a discrete chunk of butter and you go to bake it, and you're left with kind of a hole. - [Julia] A hole that the - [Lan] Exactly, and we don't want that. - [Julia] Yeah, you can see it's really quite swirled in there. - Yeah, and I'm not super concerned with this being a perfect rectangle. We're gonna keep working this So all right, one more fold. So this amount of dough I'm gonna divide it in half a little bit easier. And we'll wrap this up and pop During that time, the flour's gonna absorb some of that water, the dough the gluten relaxes, and it makes rolling this dough out a dream. All right, Julia, it's been an hour since we popped these in the fridge. - [Julia] Nice and chilled. - They really are, so let's get started. I'm actually gonna I've got one whole egg here, And I'm just gonna beat this. (fork clinking) So we'll set this aside and and roll out some pie dough. - All right. I see two rolling pins. - Yeah, so each of these I thought it'd be fun if you - Yeah, I love it. - I'm gonna flour my work surface, and you are shooting for - [Julia] Okay, a little Okay. - When pie doughs are really firm, I like to do that rock So just kind of a little bit of mushing to thin it out and soften it. - [Julia] All right, this My goodness. - So we want this dough nice and thin. 17, great. So now we're gonna rotate this. I think it's easiest to and then you rotate it and unroll. We're actually gonna use this egg wash to mark where we want I'm gonna put a one inch wide strip right down the center of the dough. And then I'm gonna put more and the bottom, but just the bottom half. And now we're gonna because we're making four hand pies. So once right down the and that is where our filling will go. - [Julia] Oh, okay. - I want to pump up the I'm using an eighth of a but you can use lemon zest, We're gonna put two tablespoons of filling into each of these squares, and not all the way to the into a square and flatten it slightly. That will make folding the - [Julia] Okay. - A little bit of smooshing out just to make a nice Instead of folding this I'm gonna cut it into four with just one hand pie at a time. And I'm using a pizza wheel, but a sharp knife will do just fine. - [Julia] A pizza wheel - [Lan] That looks great. - [Julia] Yeah. - [Lan] Yeah. Now we fold. The only trick here is I like to push that down first to anchor it. - [Julia] The fold? - [Lan] Yeah. - [Julia] All right, press on the fold. - [Lan] And then you want to make sure you get as much air We'll vent it later, it's not a problem. - [Julia] All right, I think I'm good. - Yeah, nice job. Okay, now we trim. Since they're all lined your cutter or your knife Getting rid of that fold allows the dough to puff a little bit taller. - [Julia] Right. - [Lan] I'm gonna clean up the edges. - [Julia] I'm gonna use this fluted cutter because I love the tidy edges it makes. - [Lan] This is kind of the fun part, because you can finish I'm actually gonna do a I think it's such a lovely - [Julia] Yes. - Totally fine to skip is the thing that's holding not the crimp. Now, to vent these, I'd like to put a one inch or so slit in. It almost doesn't matter You can use a little decorative cutter and put shapes on top if you'd like. Now, these hand pies, and then pack up into keep them in the freezer and bake them off one at - [Julia] Oh, that's cool. - I'm gonna move these to the fridge. I want to let them firm up a little bit. That helps the dough hold Just 15 minutes in the - [Julia] Okay. - [Lan] All right, Julia, one last thing before we bake these. - [Julia] Okay. - I want to add one more bit of gilding. I'm gonna egg wash these. It's gonna give these a beautiful sheen, and it'll help the browning a lot. But that egg wash will also be the glue. I'm gonna sprinkle a little I like to use demerara or turbinado for that extra molassesy flavor. - [Julia] Mm-hmm. - [Lan] I've got two tablespoons overall. It's kind of up to you And the sugar doesn't melt. It crunches really nicely. So Julia, these will on the upper and lower middle racks, and they go for 20 to 25 minutes About half way through, I'm gonna go in and rotate those trays so they bake evenly. After they come out, they'll before we can dig in. - Mm-mm, they look ready to eat. And they're still warm. - [Lan] Yeah. They are best served warm. - [Julia] Oh, just slightly warm, so you can still pick them up. - [Lan] Yeah, but didn't That little chill really kind of give them a little bit of extra. - [Julia] They are lookers. - [Lan] Yeah. - [Julia] So sweet. All right, I can't wait any longer. Mm, mm, that dough is so delicious. It just tastes like butter. It's flaky. You can actually see - That's so tasty. - Mm, mm, mm, the filling. - You've got to try the other fillings. You're gonna love them. - That filling has so much flavor. You can taste that little bit of almond. - It doesn't make a mess when you eat it. There's no filling dripping on you. - Wow. - It's a hand pie. It needs to stay in your hand. - You have no idea. For me, that's a huge achievement. - Win. - Lan, these are delicious. Thank you. - You're welcome. - So if you want to make these delicious, sweet little hand pies, start to make a filling, make in a plastic bag, and seal From America's Test for cherry hand pies that (both laughing) Big points in my world. We hope you enjoyed this video as much as we enjoyed making it. - Don't forget to hit that like button and subscribe to our channel. - And if you're ready to take your cooking to the next level, head over and get a free all - While you're there, you can sign up for our free email newsletters - [Julia] With unlimited access to over 14,000 of our test kitchen recipes and 8,000 product reviews, to cook and learn. - So I ask what are you waiting for? - Let's make something great together.