River Phoenix was only 23 when he died because of a drug overdose in Viper Room nightclub in Hollywood. at that time he was acknowledged as death had a huge impact not only his brother moments, his family and his loved ones, but it and Hollywood. one person whose life changed Explorers where he acted alongside River Phoenix how Hawke grieved for the death of Phoenix has parents divorced when he was four years a huge intellectual, musical and artistic gave Laurence Olivier's book on acting for his school and were in the university when they he decided never to divorce to avoid disappointing a writer during his teenage years he started was Explorers with River Phoenix at the age of an actor you think it's there I don't know if yeah yeah I I would I'd like to continue if I can I get older I don't know you know even though he bombed in the box office and he stopped acting. he despite this he returned to acting just four years life. that movie was that dead poet's society and learned about carpe diem as a kid. the Latin term for means carpe diem that seize the day. very good Mr how the movies we watch as children leave the never quit acting. what do you love? and if you get you and it expands for me it was really easy I I was in a play called St Joan by George Bernard moreover since then there hasn't been a time when just as he was beginning to enjoy fame, recognition friend River Phoenix occured. it was a shocking just lose one of his best friends he also saw eat you alive. mourning his friend had a lifelong first of all River had just died and and that was of child acting was was not like an idea it was I really wanted to survive. first of all he never chaotic lifestyle. furthermore he began focusing on afraid of being labeled as pretentious, so he felt career for himself. this ambition was clearly see this is all we need a couple of smokes you and me in five bucks you got it. this Ben Stiller's recently graduated university students with dreams movie for Generation X. besides everyone dies all plays guitar studies philosophy questions life's was like all he was in real life. you know that mean pretentious and selfs serious full of himself I knew guys I wanted to be guys I didn't like if playing you really get immersed in their point with Troy in a second today to be honest. while he of youth of that day he chose scripts that were an IQ prerequisite but there's no secret hand a sensationally famous and well respected actress even today defines Gattaca as one of his best roles married in 1998. it was finally complete for Hawke. he and smart characters of profound scripts. he also talented and charming wife and two cute kids. but young man. in 2003 rumors surfaced suggesting that couple divorced a few years later. even though with her ever since, the divorce shook his own that he wouldn't be the father of a broken home he realized that life is not a place of such big to be easier than it is it's really I I think I you work hard you tell the truth your aim is better and better and life doesn't work on some sense you know it it was turning into much more of Twisted sometimes what you thought was a failure a success turned into a failure. Hawke had to grieve second marriage he had to mourn after his parents. his suffering besides acting. his childhood dream the before triology which had a profound impact on Sunrise premiered in 1995 and became an odd to the is totally inaccurate if you ask me. for this to the script alongside director Richard Linklater encouraging Hawke to pursue other creative endavours beyond acting. whenever you feel sleepy. you know and I love doing new things State was published in 1996. his first movie he wrote a novel called a Bright Ray of darkness cheated on his wife and was at the brink of a story. but what happens is as an actor we're only to find exciting opportunities Ethan Hawke wasn't he was now creating his own projects writing successful famous and wealthy that you might think having acted in countless plays he developed know here I am was turning 40 and I'd always been was that of a young person you know uh when dead client at my agency right you know what I mean I debut at 21 oh he wrote a book at 24 I was such sudden that wasn't true anymore and I felt like was time to deliver. he was not confident as he hands were shaking. what was happening to him for us from being our best self. the great bulk know and I think a lot of people feel that way. Bernstein. Bernstein reassured him saying of course and that was a seed for his first documentary loss of his youth and create another artistic bit of balance of maintaining that youthful according to researchers, a successful morning light on in the world again. when successful to the deceased loved ones while also able to imagine successfully the person re-engages in daily a future with potential for joy and satisfaction. dreams I see him when I watch the work of Joaquin. I see own private Idaho. this idea that life has this true. whenever Ethan Hawke, suffered he returned had to challenge his own beliefs and transform many times in his career that finding his way back potent mourning processes every time he lost to you to decide whether your work is good or bad you think writing a book is valuable if you think telling the truth as they know it is valuable that he didn't need to chase fame he needed to he didn't need to stay married to the mother of be himself with all his complexities like the all the answers. you can't win pretending like somebody else. to avoid being pretentious