- There is one specific because I absolutely adore Sam Jackson, and every time I hear or say it, I feel connected to my friend. - [Interviewer] Which is? - Motherfucker. (uptempo piano music) (indistinct) - [Interviewer] Salma, what did you learn from your - What I learned was that I have an absolute terrible paralyzing stage fright, so that was quite shocking. Imagine you wanna be an actress and you realize that you cannot But thank God, there's - [Interviewer] Do you still of large crowds today? - Yeah, and even if it's you see me, you think, But I am, I am. - [Interviewer] Is there one film that opened the most doors for you? - I don't think there was one I would think every Now, you know, people are but it didn't happen like that for me. Even after I was nominated for an Oscar, the type of roles that What has opened the doors for me, it's been my tenacity, my consistency. I just wouldn't go away. And it's funny, just when they told me like, after a certain age, that's that's when my career They said, &quot;You stop and here we are, 58, I'm still working. - [Interviewer] What did it mean to you to be the first Mexican actress to be nominated for an Academy Award? - Ah, that was huge because it's not what it means to me, but what it means to such a And you know what, then one of my best friends which is Penelope Cruz. And it was so, so meaningful and we had dreams together and we fought all our battles, So it was so emotional. - [Interviewer] What was it and acting hats on the set of Frida? - It was a very demanding shoot, and it's in Mexico City, and they actually gave me oxygen. One time I kind of fainted because it was really but I wouldn't change a thing. I would change some things, - [Interviewer] You said that you didn't have any icons. Has that changed? - I have a lot of admiration For example, Madonna is iconic to me. I went to see Madonna many years ago when I was in Mexico City, and it didn't cross my mind that I was going to be an actress. And I was so inspired by this woman, the energy of the place, her audacity to be unique and herself in an artistic way all around, not just the singing and the songs. And yeah, she really impacted me and she just invited me this which is where I saw her and to be on the stage. And that was mind-blowing. - [Interviewer] What have thought of that? - She would've never imagined that one day she was and dance with her on stage, And I relate them very because they both had - [Interviewer] I've heard that you create scores for the characters that you are playing. - [Interviewer] If Salma had - Like, when I was coming I had the radio on, and what I do is I keep skipping, skipping, skipping, skipping, and I hear an interesting You know, (indistinct) And so I discover a lot of and that's what's fun about my life. - [Interviewer] What's it like - Oh my God, I loved it. I loved it because she She brought the speakers and I would walk the scene. Sunny, we was delicious. And she would separate the time and I think it really - [Interviewer] You also of Marvel's &quot;Eternals.&quot; How did it feel to be a superhero, - But the people of this with a snap of a finger. I was not like crazy about this. It's not kind of movies I normally watch, I'm not gonna lie, but it was huge. And at my age was even like - [Interviewer] I've heard that &quot;The Hitman's Bodyguard&quot; movies resulted in you swearing more. - What the fuck did you just say? I found it so liberating and giggling. You know, at the beginning especially because if it's they don't have the same as they do when you were growing up and you were told, &quot;This is really bad. You're not supposed to say this.&quot; And then it just kind of stuck. It was not good. - [Interviewer] Your recent raised over $3 million. What's the secret to running - Well, one of the secrets of this gala is that it's also very intimate. So there's only 200 people. And also, we have amazing, inspiring people talking. Sometimes you think you're about people that are And you start seeing they start realizing And so that's really beautiful. - [Interviewer] Is there anything from your time in Hollywood that has influenced how you highlight philanthropic endeavors? - Yeah, but it really works for me, the way around my time spent really listening to their stories and also having to come up to things that are impossible, That gave me the strength to believe that I could go through because when I arrived in that Mexican actress could in that industry. It was kind of laughable. But because I've done some that has informed my ability to understand characters - [Interviewer] What's the best bit of career advice you've been given and what's the worst? - It's the same one, I The worst one is, &quot;Go home.&quot; There's nothing for you here. It'll never happen. Go home.&quot; And in a way, this is because it made me angry. And I'm telling you, I'm very contradictory character, so it was a bad advice that was the right thing to say to me. (uptempo piano music)