Learning a lot being a California 'Cause it's different here 'Cause it's different here I've learned when I go to a restaurant, if I order an iced tea, with three pounds of sugar in it. Y'all call that sweet tea. We call it diabetea. Learning a lot. Very simple things like if I go to a store and they're like, &quot;Can I help you find anything?&quot; I'm like, &quot;I'm okay.&quot; And if I'm feeling really &quot;I'm okay, thanks.&quot; That's it, that's where it ends. Then I got to Nashville. I'm at TJ Maxx one day. I can hear the ladies &quot;Can I help you find anything?&quot; &quot;I'm all right, but thank &quot;It's my pleasure, it's &quot;Yes it is.&quot; &quot;But they say it's gonna Make sure you get home before the traffic. It's gonna be a mess.&quot; &quot;Bless your heart.&quot; I was like, &quot;Ooh, I don't for the South.&quot; I don't know how to do it. Like who stops talking first? Then I look around the corner and neither one of them even worked there. And then somebody told me this. They were like, &quot;Hey, when they can mean it in a And I was like, &quot;What, like And they're like, &quot;No, trust me. Sometimes that's not what they mean.&quot; So now anytime somebody just to be safe, I reply Yeah, I wish you would bless my heart. Bless it again, go ahead. It's kind of like the old I'm gonna pray for you. Oh, that's funny 'cause I'm Yeah, you been on my prayer wall. About to lay hands on Learning a lot. When we first got to Nashville, what part of the city Like where do we fit in? Where do we vibe with, finding out this county has good schools, this county doesn't. This county believes in Where do we fit? And I would tell my friends, I'd be like, &quot;Hey, I wanna live somewhere where I could get a lot of land.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Okay, I'm like, &quot;Okay, cool, co, co, co, cool. But I also don't want my So how far South?&quot; You know what I mean? Like are we talking Franklin or Pulaski? Like how far? Because when you get to the I've seen movies. I'm not trying to do that. I mean if they have a TJ Maxx And I'm a good neighbor. Like State Farm, I'm there. I love my neighbors. I'm the one that has And if I haven't seen you in a while, I will send you a text. &quot;Are you good, do I need I got your back.&quot; 'Cause I love my neighbors. Every holiday season I'm Not the whole neighborhood, just the houses I can because I love my neighbors, as long as they love me. And I know that's not but that is my interpretation. This is not the new King James version. This is a new Queen Anjelah version. This is Anjelah 5:14. &quot;Do unto me as you wanna get done.&quot; That's how you say amen in my Bible. You could come to my Bible study, it's on Tuesdays. Learning a lot. One thing I learned right out the gate is allergies are a whole Because when I live in Los Angeles, we don't really get all the seasons. We get summer and fire. So Zyrtec works just fine there. Then I get here, come to find out Zyrtec lost their it did not work. One day I went to pour and the wind just blew it off. It was like, &quot;Don't bother.&quot; It's so fun waking up every morning playing COVID or allergies. Do you guys know that game? where you wake up in the morning and your sinuses are doing a weird thing and you're like, &quot;Wait a minute, hold on. Am I dying or did I have dairy? Can I taste anything? Gimme some peanut butter, can I taste?&quot; I was actually really lucky I did not get COVID at all. And then earlier this She gets around that one. At this point I know more than who have not had it. I know people who have had it and I know people personally So my heart goes out to anybody here who has lost somebody from COVID. I've been tested for it many times and the first time I got tested, my friends try to warn me about it. They were like, &quot;Yo, it's intense.&quot; And it actually wasn't that bad probably 'cause they let me do it myself. Yeah, they gave me the Q-tip and they're like, &quot;Okay, you wanna go all the way in your sinuses?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Okay. Sure, sure, sure, sure, sure, sure. How about I just put it in my Can you test boogers? I'll give you some of those.&quot; The second time I got COVID and he went all the way up in there to where like my eyelids started closing. I was like, &quot;Whoa, you're He's like, &quot;It's not that far up there.&quot; I was like, &quot;Nah bro, you're in my brain like you're giving basic Like if I punch you, it's He's like, &quot;Well I'm sorry.&quot; I was like, &quot;No, no, no, don't apologize. Just while you're up there, do you mind scraping out That'd be great.&quot; Could you imagine if Get your childhood trauma You'd catch me at the CVS like once a week. They're like, &quot;Can we help you?&quot; &quot;Hi, I'm here for my COVID my mom forgot me at the store.&quot; Another thing I've learned is the bugs are bigger. Y'all got some Nashville Like in California we have Then I get to Nashville, I went to get in my shower one morning. There was a spider in my shower. Now this spider was so big, I thought I was interrupting him. I did, I went to open the shower curtain and I was like, &quot;Oh my God, I'm so sorry. I didn't know anybody He was big, and he was furry too. Yeah, I didn't know if I I didn't know. He was so furry, he had dander. I need my Zyrtec pill just I was like, &quot;Sir, the Head Help yourself.&quot; If I ever have to kill a spider that big, I am morally conflicted, because at that point that's a pet. Put a collar on that thing, that's Bubba. Bubba had plans that day. He was just getting That's messed up. If you ever have to you could hear the crunch. And if you hear the crunch, you know that thing had a soul. That's messed up. I used to kill any spider 'cause I don't like bugs at all. But over the past couple years for nature and insects. So now if I ever see a spider in my house, what I like to do is scoop take it outside, throw it in a bush, and then immediately go like this. But if I'm left with no choice and I have to kill a spider, I now like to start with an apology. &quot;Listen sir, I know you I'll be honest, neither was I. Truth is I don't know you. You could be poisonous So at this point, it's either me or you and I have chosen you.&quot;