(dynamic music) - This is a Lego. No, this is a Lego. But this is like a giant steel Stack them together and in a couple of weeks, boom, you got a building. Then, just like a Lego, whenever you want and reassemble them. Why do this? Well, think about the mall. All of those shopping oases '80s, and '90s, all Well, the internet made a (man laughing) And what do you do with the malls then? Some unideal conversion, or demolition. Now extrapolate that to a world rendered obsolete every year. Annually, about 2 billion tons of waste is generated by destroying buildings. Enter modular construction. - In the modular world we think the holy grail is a red six Lego. You can build anything out of a red six. So we created what we think is a red six. - This building and disassembled nine - Nine times? - Nine times. - Let's pause on that. That means they put the building together. People used it. Then they took it apart, moved it to a different place, Then they did that again eight All of this raises the question, do buildings need to be permanent? Do cities need to be inert? This is Hard Reset, a series about rebuilding Just north of San Francisco where they used to make... - Submarines for the US Navy. - We went out to this island to visit the folks at iMod, one of the companies working to make modular construction mainstream. This is Reed. He's a general contractor by trade. So he spent most of his career Now he's all in on modular. This frame is his baby. Well, not his actual baby. Reed has human children. - We make one frame, that's it. There's not two or three different versions of our iMod frame. There's only one. You could have frames end to end, top to bottom. And from that we can build multiple, multiple different projects. - That's a big deal. 'Cause the modular and prefab movement - Few are to such a newfangled idea as the prefab. - Historically the emphasis has been on custom structures. - We're not gonna build a round one. We're not gonna build a square one. It's this shape. And you stick with that because you can't be - What makes Well, it's all pretty hidden. (dynamic music) - Our roof system has in-built gutters, which allow obviously the water to shed away from the building. - That's Mike. He used to oversee an assembly line for Rolls Royce airplane engines. That's pretty cool. - Our frames are manufactured Then they come in as a bare frame and we start putting in air conditioning ducting, putting in the wall and then the HVA system. - All that HVA system sits in one module. The equipment's in there, the return air is in there. That all allows for us to be faster and quicker on the job site when we get out to install our buildings. - And that frame So you can transport Offload them with a simple Stick a few of 'em Hook in the plumbing and the electrical. Bam, you're done. iMod is focused on building 'Cause apparently children that's not a Zoom conference. When we went out to see them put the final touches on this school we never would have guessed (dynamic music) - Typically it would to manufacture a classroom We're doing that in 12 days. - Yes, you heard that right. An entire classroom in 12 But wait a minute, I know Didn't a company in China just build a 57 story prefab They sure did, and that's super cool. But a lot of those Then what? What I think is cool about this approach to modular construction they can disassemble and - Ok we're just gonna walk. So follow me. Our six new classrooms - And that flexibility was the idea from the start. You see, a decade ago, spoke with an official from who said... We have all these classrooms that we built deployed over here. And because of demographic we don't need them there anymore. We need them here. But we can't relocate them. Your building is relocatable. That would be a tremendous asset to us.&quot; - In 20 years from now, guess what? They don't need classrooms anymore, but they need medical office buildings. These can turn into just by swapping out components, and not having to go through We don't want our buildings to ever end up in a landfill, ever. We wanna take that system and use it again, and - So what does a city look like when a bunch of its buildings can move? Picture this scenario. A giant company comes in, needs lots of places to put people. Lots of iMod frames come in. An office park emerges. In a few months, a But a decade later that and the people move to or different cities altogether. Those offices and that without leaving urban But what if we think about this modularity on a global level? (dynamic music) - We developed this system the big shipping company. Every one of our frames is And that way they can go onto a ship and transport just like They can go on a train and transport just like a Pretty much every country in the world, and every city in the world, They know how to do it. - What if, as the needs of countries change, entire buildings, even entire cities, could This would be a hard reset for how we think about We would have to shift our mentality around the notion of constant growth. We see cities like Detroit in the '50s, to just under and people think of them as a failure. But why? Cities are inherently dynamic and maybe they should be Today, those size changes because of the hollowed out warehouses and homes that are left behind. But what if we could to other parts of the city, (gentle music) We might lose the character that comes from old structures evolving over time, but not every building Some things are more about utility. Some things work better as Legos. Come back next time for another Subscribe to Freethink to watch our other original series and documentaries about technology, and people that are changing our world.