(text clicks) - Trauma is so ubiquitous that if you think you have never seen it, you have not looked. We meet people who fly off the handle. We meet people who shut down. We meet people who are very difficult. You know, it is a rare family that doesn't have a drug addict, alcoholic, disturbed person. You know, one thing I like &quot;Are there any normal people, who come from normal And sometimes one or two I say, &quot;Can I please come to Because I've never been My name is Bessel van der Kolk. I'm a psychiatrist, neuroscientist. I have been studying trauma I've treated a whole variety of different traumatized populations, see trauma in many different and I am the author of the book (pensive music) It's important for people to realize that not every mental what we're talking about here. The mainstream system is that there is something wrong with you and I need to fix you. That's a very different attitude Around the time that I first a group of us started and started to define 1978 was the year, and the Vietnam War was over The very first day that I was just blown away. They kept referring back Their hearts seemed to be with the people who were no longer around. They had a hard time loving They had a hard time being in in the present. These were guys who were my age, who were smart and competent, but they clearly were just a And what was also really striking is they were sort of And then people told them and they went from zero to 10 and blew up and became extremely angry. Something seemed to have happened to them that made it very hard for them to modulate their responses My colleagues and I started to think about how is what these guys from what other people who are in psychiatry So I dug up a book that by Abram Kardiner who had been working with World War soldiers. He wrote, &quot;These guys suffer Their bodies continue to re-experience that very terrible, frightening situation, and that event keeps coming back in terms of images, behaviors, So that became the core We write, &quot;These people have been exposed to an extraordinary event that's outside of normal And in retrospect, that and narrow-minded we were because it turned out that this is not an Trauma is actually - unlike extremely common. One out of five women in America has a history of sexual molestation. Even a lot of men have One out of four kids get beaten One out of eight kids see physical fights between their parents. People usually think about the military when they talk about trauma, but when we started to the amount of trauma that these kids experienced The nature of trauma is into your ears, into your and it goes down into a very that automatically Is this dangerous or is this safe? An event becomes traumatic when to stave off the inevitable and your body starts of fight/flight or collapse. The lingering effect of to react to mild stressors And so you tend to become hyperreactive. Somebody may irritate You may develop road rage. You may have a difficult time putting up with misbehavior from And most people actually are barely aware or not aware at all that their reactions that they're having right in experiences that they've had before. That event itself is over, but you continue to react to So the big challenge of treating trauma is how do we help people to live in bodies that feel fundamentally safe? The tradition in mental health is to dismiss the reality For example, it's only that people are beginning to talk about the impact of or the impact of unemployment. And people have sort of &quot;Oh, there something wrong with you. Let me fix you.&quot; But if you go to a physician or a mental health practitioner they're going to try to fix you with drugs or cognitive behavioral treatment to not do these crazy things anymore. It usually doesn't work very well. What was very clear is that where people can hear you, where you can talk about where you can talk about your guilt, and where you can start opening up where these feelings come from, and how you develop these to particular things that happen to you, that was actually quite helpful because you need to really &quot;This is what happened to me. This is what I'm dealing with, and I need to take care of the wounds that I'm carrying inside of myself.&quot; This issue of self-compassion and really knowing that your and are rooted in you is a terribly important part of beginning to recover from trauma. Most of us are survivors some much worse than others. And so if people say what do I'd say, I want our society and to really do all the so that people who grow up can develop a brain and to become full fledged members of society. That's our big issue, and that's the big challenge that we have. (pensive music)