Hello Internet... *Cough* *Clear throat* my voice is shot. I apparently caught what my four year old stiffness, subsequently followed by four days And I recognize that in order for this video it needs to get recorded. So if you'll excuse me, I'm just going to I'm going to now put all the ice on all of and I'm going to rest my voice in the hopes long, FNAF timeline episode. Anyway, Dan! ow, all right. I will talk to you later. Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory. The show that always choo choo chooses violence choose to hit that subscribe button. Go on, do it. And I can't believe Matt made me read that. Yes. Hi. Hello. It's Head Editor Dan stepping in for a very and gone to theory heaven. But enough about that, dear viewer. Let me introduce you to Choo Choo Charles, stop an unstoppable man-eating-spider-train. Okay. The moderately stoppable man-eating-spider-train. Okay. He might be a little stoppable. Anyway, regardless of his threat level. It's our job to get rid of them. To do that, we must find three mystical eggs While on our quest, the game presents us with Questions about a mysterious background. Questions about the nature of this evil spider Questions about pickles. Just pickles. Wrong you are Matpat. This is going to be a great episode. So what secrets are lurking in the corners All aboard the crazy train, loyal theorists. Because this episode is about to go off the Ga, why does he write these puns? Let's start with the simplest question first. What exactly is Charles? I've repeatedly called him a man-eating-spider-train. And if you play the game normally, yeah, that's But if that's your understanding as to the friend, you are wrong. It turns out Charles isn't actually a train I know that sounds crazy, considering I'm of Thomas the Tank engine. But stick with me here. One of the earliest missions in the game is Inside that chest is a stone tablet that seems spider monster. Huh, now doesn't that sound familiar? The fact it is literally carved into a stone implies the spider creatures have roamed the years. It would seem to suggest that the spider and spider ultimately came first in this sort This also makes sense based on the way the The island is named Aranearum, based on the So where does the train park come in? Well, to understand that, we need a bit of Throughout the game, we learn the story of a gold mining operation on the island. And we see evidence of his operation everywhere. Large open mineshafts, mine carts, tools, paperwork. But most importantly, he brought his trains. Warren is the reason for the rails running He needed mining trains to carry his spoils In fact, when we get our first train from see the Charles Mining Company logo plastered So on that note, have you ever stopped to I understand that the answer is likely no. When a spider-train is doing everything it going to walk towards it and ask for an inspection. But if you do manage to get a closer look on the side of the cabin is a logo for the The train belonged to Warren. It was not part of Charles' original body. In fact, I think we can pinpoint exactly when In the first mine we visit, there's a note While mining the farthest tunnel we broke There's something strange here and we don't Now, Charles isn't what they immediately find According to another note, this is when they with collecting. They found a whole nest of eggs while clearing And when they start using the eggs, this is train glory. While the prison was extracting life energy That's when Charles attacked for the first So while Charles wasn't found within that dormant. It was also here where he would have taken had left behind. Why do that? Well, humans have advanced a bit since the Their technology is better, more deadly. No longer are they fighting with bows and AND BAZOOKAS! Bazookas is just a fun word to say, guys. Let me have it. Plus, Charles has proven himself to be strangely Quote: Charles has never crossed the old wood bridge. Somehow the beast is cunning enough to know Charles saw the explosives and mining equipment onslaught with those more advanced humans. So he used what was around him the mining supplies to and from the mine. This gave him a layer of protection from their Which leads us to the events of the game and Charles III. While we and the rest of the island want to other ideas. He has hidden the eggs in three mines across to summon and fight Charles. He even takes away the weapons of the locals to fight Charles. So immediately this guy gives off strong villain We're told in another note found on the island made us bring our families to this hell hole about his business practices away from the That's right. Warren is a shady businessman. Shocker. So not only did he accidentally release an everyone away from the mainland to keep them But he also committed the biggest sin of all. He didn't issue his workers their W-2s. Now how were they going to file their taxes? Wow. Thanks, Matt. Really wanted to think about tax season right Though, I have to ask, what did you expect hat and yellow suit? Call me crazy, but with an outfit like that, to mind. Banana Cowboy is what immediately springs Editor, can we get a banana cowboy? Oh, that is excellent. That said, there are even larger accusations The local theorist Greg, A CONSPIRACY THEORIST! suspects that Warren may actually be using take over the world. And you can tell that Greg is trustworthy In fact, he's so trustworthy, he doesn't wear According to Greg: raise more of these eight legged critters; Warren must have realized how powerful these them, wants to use them to TAKE OVER THE WORLD So there we have it. Case closed. Warren is in cahoots with Charles and is trying Right? Wrong. You guys know Matt. You know that Matt personally loves yellow You guys also know that Matt isn't going to when the accuser signs his name "genius So we did some digging to see whether Warren thinks he is. And if you go through the game and find all of the story. A note you find in a random shack on the northeast family is rather wealthy with lots of success However, the writer goes on to say, I'm surprised Some people have taken this to mean that Warren That he knew about the eggs. If this family was so wealthy, why would he of gold? And while that certainly makes a lot of sense, In fact, if you find more of the lore sprinkled that Warren isn't as wealthy as everyone thinks During the mission for Ronnie, in the center of old towers built by Warren to retrieve that tells us "we will need to strike gold The note is written in the first person. It's from the perspective of a person who towers are where important employee paperwork ever received. It gives me reason to believe this note is He set up the mining operation. He was looking for gold and it's all because He wasn't necessarily bankrupt from the expedition, And this was a last ditch effort to save the That's why he took the risk. It wasn't for the spider eggs, thank God. It really was for gold. Again, I've seen people online suggest he only to realize how dangerous they were. But that also doesn't line up with what we The character Gail tells us that while under the eggs and protecting them. We also see this echoed in a note from one Make sure nobody goes near the egg. If you see anyone that shouldn't be there, No risks can be taken. As soon as it finishes, kill it, and bring He's talking about the spider eggs hatching. He's doing the exact opposite of what Greg Rather than raising them to make an army. He's actively trying to kill them once they Warren isn't selling the eggs. He's actively hiding them, locking them away, from being stolen. He fears that destroying the eggs will only That's not an option. So instead, the only solution is to isolate Wait for the baby spiders to hatch and then What's even less evil is that after the Charles At least according to the note from Gail. Yeah. Everyone on the island is convinced this guy on the island. But at least to start with that wasn't actually I've been praying someone from the first evacuation I guess they all think that George's supply Fun fact. We actually know someone that was on the first During the game's tutorial, we hear this line. Good old Eugene. May his memory live on. Just like Matt's voice. When you consider all of this, it absolutely about the cave in. This wasn't about hiding bad business practices. It was about trying to stop others from coming legs of Charles or trying to destroy the eggs He was afraid of escalating the situation, who decides to show up. Us. and what do we do? Escalate the situation. We kill Warren's guards. We steal the eggs. We try to do the exact thing Warren was trying And lo behold, it makes Charles stronger. The only mistake Warren made was doubting He didn't expect us or anyone to be able to But can you blame him? We're talking about a giant hex spider protected I'd have my doubts too. Warren isn't the villain of Choo Choo Charles. He's just a businessman, desperately digging only to unearth a horrible monster instead. And if that wasn't bad enough, his employees They all turn their backs on him and betray He saw the danger that was in front of them becoming stronger. He evacuated people from the island and he wouldn't be more deaths. And what did he get for his good deeds? Some face to face time with a monster he tried Or maybe, just maybe, Warren knew something And I'm not talking about the cave full of scene. Oh, no, my friends, I'm talking about this one of the shrines where? Beware the bus. His name is Gus. He's not on the island though so don't When you go back to the mainland, don't Gus bus bus the Gus, he's bad and fast. Charles fears Gus. Forget about spider trains. Now we're talking about something really scary. Spider-busses. Great. Got to be honest, the scariest thing about the guy sitting next to you. Now, that is what I call horror. But, hey, it's all just a theory. A GAME THEORY!. Thanks for watching. And hey, if you want to keep riding the rails of our other indie horror theories like this Or if you like the idea of a video game lying of Evertale, the game that really made fake That one is a real wild ride. As always, don't forget to subscribe. This has been Head Editor Dan and I'm going maybe find some scraps on the floor.