In the printing shop of the Gutenberg Museum in Mainz , typeset and printing is still done by hand. The Christmas story today. (squeaking) Christoph Suner, the workshop manager, pulls out all the plug-in boxes for typeface B36. It is the typeface that Johannes Gutenberg used for his 36-line Bible. Today we decided to print the opening text of the Christmas story, i.e. from the Gospel of Luke. With appropriate initial. That means we are setting the text today, the first sentences, and then printing it on handmade paper. And tomorrow the initial will be drawn in. For our sentence, we first determine the line width by taking our A3 paper... Leave a margin of five to six centimeters on the right and left. Add three or four centimeters to one side. For the initial later. And then determine the line width on our typometer. And there come to about 56 Cicero. So we then place our angle hook in the lead type. Of course, in manual typesetting, we always calculate only in points and cicero. Hence the switch from centimeters to Cicero. Here we go. The smallest dimension in the handset is the dot, exactly 0.376 millimeters in size. A Cicero, on the other hand, is twelve points. So about four and a half millimeters. The type used by Christoph Suner is new, the working technique historical. Most of the time you're really aware that this is historical. And you're just happy to hold every single letter, i.e. every single letter, in your hand. And to really see line by line being created by hand. In the first four lines, Christoph Huhner leaves room for the initial that is to be painted later. A capital E. The text is not unknown. Of course we have our manuscript here, but the beginning with &quot;But it happened in those days&quot;, you can still get that by heart ... ah, together. It is set in the angle hook. We can see that. And, very important: You always bet on the head, but still from left to right, i.e. in the direction of writing and reading. But the letters are all upside down. So, now our first line is already done. So we're not going to do any more. We always need a bit of play, and we're going to fill that up with the dummy material. Then we have a certain amount of dummy material available, that is, dummy material, because it is simply lower than the type and does not print with it. And really only used to fill in the line or, of course, mainly to create the word spacing. It's always a bit of a puzzle. But at the end the line should be finished in such a way that if you clip it, it won't fall over, but it can still be clipped. A job that requires a steady hand and a lot of patience. I'm not necessarily that, a patient person, but it's calming, the work. Yes, you have to take a bit of time to always look for it here. Now it's refilled. Now we have the first two lines done. And now lift them out with the row line... You have to be very careful there so that nothing falls apart. The man on the apron is our portrait of Gutenberg, which we print on the aprons ourselves. Um, but now that was more of a coincidence. That's not me. That's really just the Gutenberg. And yes, that had... been noticed once or twice, that I see things similarly. I always like to say that that was a recruitment criterion. The next two lines are done. We'll take them out again. Line by line, Christoph Suner writes a total of 17 lines. Because just... The last sentence, the last line is: &quot;there was no place for them in the inn.&quot; After two hours, Christoph Sinner can implement the last line. From the angle hook to the nave, i.e. the plate on which the other lines are already. That 's it. Now we just have to untie the sentence. Exhausted? Yes. It's... You have to concentrate a lot with this typeface. So, now we're going to tie the sentence out with the column string so that it can be pushed back and forth, i.e. it can be moved. Otherwise it would fall apart completely if you pushed it. Just the column cord... Pinch the cord here at the first corner. And then just goes around the sentence in relatively tight tracks . It is not tied out so tightly that you can lift the sentence. This only serves to move the sentence back and forth. So, and now at the end ... let's make a small loop here, grasp it with the awl ... and pass the loop right under the rows. And pull them out again at the bottom. Anyone who can crochet has a clear advantage. And drag it all into the corner. So the sentence is now firmly tied out. And you can move it back and forth. Christoph Sinner is a master printer. He wants to print the bound set on a hand-printing press. A Correx, Hanover type, built in 1963 for short runs and proofs of newspaper pages. So, now we can easily slide the unbound set from our ship onto the foundation... of the manual trigger press. So. Now let's start closing the shape. The form is closed with these bars. And the turnkeys. It has to sit firmly in the machine now so that nothing can wobble back and forth. (clattering) And now the key... turns the closers shut. Always so evenly slowly criss-crossing. And then nothing should move here anymore. Then you can't take anything out of it or anything like that. And here in the sentence ... no line should wobble in any way or ... exactly, the letters should somehow move. Then we'll paint it now. First of all on the table. And then we rub the color with the hand roller. The colors we use are so-called printing inks based on mineral oil varnish. So a mineral oil with resins, boiled down with a resin mixture. And then the pigment. For black, it's an industrial carbon black. In the case of the colored paints, it's chemical pigments that are buried. So I can rotate by hand. get me some paint Put these on. And do a basic coloring of the paint roller. (clacking) So now let's color the shape. Let's get some color from the table over the reels here. Now we've colored the shape. So, let's make the first deduction. Align our paper here on the table with the side mark. We have a scale here that we can use as a guide. It's in centimetres. We also have them down here in parallel. We have an orientation there. And adjust the page mark so that we get... the desired distance... from the edge of the paper to the edge of the print. Turn them back on. Place the paper against our front lays. So, now the grippers are closing. With this little lever here... (click) I can snap them shut and they hold my paper in place. And then I can start printing. (clack) (clack, rumble) There we have our first deduction. Good. So, let's take a look at the whole thing. And find out that there is simply not enough color and not enough pressure. As I said, we regulate the pressure simply by putting paper on the back or by varying the paper thickness on the back. Then we read over the whole thing again to see if there are any mistakes in it. So that looks pretty good. Then we start with the corrections. Corrections - not mistakes, but inevitable work steps that are part of printing. Then we'll take some more color. It often takes several corrections and proofs before the actual printing process can start with high-quality paper. Roll them out well again. (Clacking) Most of the time it's like this, there's a little bit of anticipation and a little bit of tension. Does it fit now the way I set it up? And then you're happy about the right result. So, let's make the first print now... on the original paper. I put another bow behind it, a little less than before. Because the paper is a bit thicker... than our waste paper. (Clacking, rumbling) Yes. Very good. Terrific. I'll check the back now. I can see if the letters on the back are pushing through if I've applied too much pressure. That is not the case here. Looks great, even on the back. Very good. The print must dry before it can be illuminated with initials and decorations . (Shrill squeaking) Basically , it's just a simple text. Printed in black on white paper. What you could just let out of the printer. But it was made by hand and you can see that. Set by hand, printed by hand, all without electricity. That's just the fascination here. (squeaking) So, Julia, here's the good bit. Enjoy the initial. - Thank you very much. Julia Bangert has a doctorate in book studies, is the managing director of the International Gutenberg Society in Mainz, and has been working as a freelance artist for almost ten years - especially in the field of illumination, i.e. book illumination. Today's illumination with initials, tendrils and gold leaf is her own design. In the beginning there is always the preliminary drawing. This is an initial in the style of medieval illumination of Gothic letters. It just goes really well with this broken font. And from the E, a tendril runs down the left edge, so that the whole thing gives such a nice overall picture. Julia Bangert's work utensils are precious. Especially the gold leaf that she keeps in the box. The first thing I do now is apply the gold background. I have already prepared that. It is mixed according to medieval recipes. The main ingredient is, um, chalk. You need something for the gold to really stick to. And the gold background contains sugar, among other things. That means when I breathe on the whole thing later when it's dry, it gets sticky. And then the gold sticks to it. Breathe on first... and then apply the gold leaf. Basically, such an illumination always has the same structure. You always do the basic colors first. Then you draw shadows. And then come the highs, the lights. And I always start by painting the base color of each color first. And then I start with the decorations. The term &quot;illumination&quot; comes from Latin and means something like &quot;lighting&quot;. The book illumination was intended to bring light into the pages, above all through the use of gilding. Julia Bangert is an autodidact. As a student, she was so fascinated by the imaginative tendrils of the medieval illuminators that she started them herself. Now I'll do the basic color of blue. I can now also continue with the red, that's ... at whim, so to speak. Julia Bangert uses opaque colors like illuminators used to do. She uses gouache paints, which dry faster than oil paint, for example. As a freelance artist, she also offers individually and personally designed initials. Now comes the last step. The highlights. (Repeated clicking) And finally comes the very last step: the decorations with black paint. Illuminators used to do this with ink and pen. I could too. But I also do it directly with the brush just to be lazy . (clack) (clack) I'm done. (Laughter) After more than an hour, it gets really tiring at some point. Because you have to concentrate a lot and have a lot of control in the brush. I think the whole page goes very well with Christmas. The writing and this type of book illumination also has something solemn and festive about it. And if you imagine it now, lit up a bit with candlelight, that also creates a nice atmosphere. A hand-set print on handmade paper with colorful illumination and gold leaf. A magnificent setting for the Christmas story. &quot;Craftsmanship&quot;. Like, share, subscribe. And as a little tip: a new episode every week. SWR 2022