Around the World with Douglas Murray. Uncommon Knowledge, now. Welcome to Uncommon Knowledge. Filming today in Fiesole, Italy. I'm Peter Robinson. Educated at Eton and Maldon is a journalist based in New York. His books include the bestsellers, and The Madness of Crowds. Earlier this spring, earlier this in Ukraine and six months in Israel. Douglas, thank you for joining me. Pleasure to be with you. Six months in Israel, let's begin there. What surprised you most? I suppose two things stand out. I got to Israel as soon as I could after spent the next six months there. I suppose I One thing about the About the terrorists, I would say lot of conflicts and seen quite a terrorists did on the 7th of October was How many died? Remind me. Oh, it was 1, 200 people more than 300 taken hostage into Gaza. when I say the level of depravity, just the atrocities they committed. the kibbutz, the villages, the at the Nova party where hundreds there's something about, I've not just the 47 minute videos. I saw. Pretty soon after. But a lot of people have shared unpublishable and unbroadcastable. And I've heard a lot of testimony And I think that apart from the sheer rapes, the shooting women in the genitals cutting off people's heads with them. Cleaver and so on. I think, aside from that, the thing they were proud of what they were doing. Now that is something that, that an awful lot of evil things. I've very rarely seen one so proud of The Terrorists of the Seventh broadcast, And they were high on evil. some people have heard the tape, terrorist, who calls his parents in killed ten Jews with my own hands. Get mother on the phone. I think it's hard to think of many cases just carried out atrocities like that, There were two boys whose father In their safe room and they, one of the and they were staggering around the room. And the terrorist who just killed their their fridge and one of the boys says to And the terrorist said, I want her too. so a level of evil, which is about and of course dealt with. I suppose the second thing I'd say is the Israel isn't like Britain or America. it's threats are awfully close. Maybe always were, but the first in the day were not just victims, but a I'm thinking of people who dropped guns and fought for the next 48 hours. A friend of mine who left a farewell children on the way south, because and he saved a lot of lives. people of all ages, and The Muslim doctor I've spoken as a human shield by Hamas. Personally held as a human I think of the Druze men I spoke serving food and who managed because They could overhear They're remarkable men. And the country is filled in so those are the two I've been in Gaza a fair amount and attempt to get back the hostages and to And, I've watched the world lose lost sympathy from about day one. I want to come back to that. You've answered the question about again, but I must ask the question If the Israelis lost 1, 200, what may not pursue the war any further? It feels, in the response to Israel, the international response with the ICC, charges against Benny Gantz and the I don't know what the numbers actually unreflectively, unchallengingly seems for the number, but it's thousands who are civilians rather than Hamas. All right, just state it one the first thing is I refute started by an enemy like Hamas. Can only be responded to a I refute the idea. I don't think it's something expected to abide by in our past. I don't think it's something we've been Not many years ago, when we helped to get Islamic State out of Mosul. The French, British and American about the number of casualties We do not know to this day how many people and the borders of Syria to get ISIS. We simply wanted to get them Bataclan Massacre and much more. Only Israel seems to be expected to often called proportionality, I like beginning of the war when a journalist even done anything, and I said, if you it means that the IDF should be allowed the number of children that Hamas of women that Hamas raped, and so on. Would that be acceptable? No. Would the Israelis abide Of course not. What then is the acceptable calculus? As you say, most of the international There's a reason for that, Western media are in Gaza. That, Rory, we'll come to that as well. They're not in there. they lie to their viewers. They fib. They cover up for their It's not even a failing. I don't blame a lot of them. So let's come to that right now. Why is the reporting so It runs I think back to the Iraq war. When we went into Iraq, John wrote from the New York Times. He was on the ground. He was writing. It was military reporting. You understood. Any reader of the Times understood the progress week by week. No such journalism exists. there's only two ways to be in Gaza. One is to be embedded with And, the other is to Hamas are not very good hosts. And, they're untrustworthy hosts. And so most of the Western media All of whom are operating under Hamas whom are going to be Hamas supporters. And Hamas, as a result, It came out with this figure of And then they said that, this They produced no evidence for it. And the world just repeated this figure. That figure, by the way, has been halved. Has it? Yeah. In the last few weeks, more, more come out from a range of sources. Which say that the 30, But anyway. What, if you follow the IDF's figures they've killed inside Gaza and the If you take even the Hamas figures, is a horrible calculus, but this is war. You're dealing with roughly one America in the field, in Afghanistan, to three or four civilians. We don't really know. In Fallujah, How did we do? Not as well as the Israelis. So that bears, lingering on for a second, as I've seen too many times now, the repeat what Hamas has said within seconds. at the near the beginning of the conflict, It's sometimes called the Shifa Hospital. It should be better known as the It's a place we know from video footage, on the 7th and they didn't take them the Shifa had a rocket land, In And Hamas immediately announced that the hospital and killed 500 people. Note, by the way, that the Israelis exact number of figures from the 7th Because it's extremely hard. I've been to the morgues. I've seen the bodies. I've seen the charred remains. It takes a long time to work out Magically, Hamas can do it like that. And can come up with a round figure. Oh, but after the world has said hospital and killed 500 people, after the rocket was an Islamic Jihad rocket in the car park of the Shifa compound. And may have killed some people, not 500. This is the day in, day out reality Just before we're sitting forces are in Rafa, operating in very intense fighting. to get the last remaining hostages out the Seventh, who's almost certainly Just before we're sitting here, there's the Israelis have been indiscriminately Now already, after that lie has gone happened was that Just yesterday rockets from between the tents. and it seems what happened was a as a secondary explosion. now, who's fault is that? all of these deaths are in my mind There is a cost to starting a war. And there is no law of war that I know a war and massacre civilians in their the war you started, say this is unfair. We would accept this under no other But it's the Jews. So So from what you saw in Israel to had a congressional hearing with the of Penn, the president of MIT, and all straightforward, forthright way, all Exactly. All right. We have pro Palestine from the Demonstrations and encampments on Earth is going on. let me do this in the briefest way I can. The people who are currently at is what it is, I've seen those things. I've heard what they say. They're for Hamas. Even I, with my often jaded glance the West, was slightly surprised. At the speed with which adults on straight into the arms of Hamas. But fine, there they are. I would put out this question. I, suspect you'd agree with me, protesting there on these campuses, up signs that said, Believe All Women. Do you remember Believe All Women? I remember that. Wow. Believe All Women turns Turns out to have a cordon around it. It turns out to have an exception. It has a subclause. The subclause is, except Jewish women. Some of those students, 10 years schoolgirls were stolen from northern And, Hollywood celebrities, students, Hashtag bring back our girls. Tell me where the demonstration has been Hollywood, bring back our Jewish children. There's a reason there is no such hashtag. There's a reason why Jews don't count. Not in the eyes of these perverted don't know that they're bigots, and but we've been here before, many times. A lot of people don't mean to be evil. They don't mean to support And that's what the students at Columbia across America have been doing. All right, it looks to me, this is a speaking now just as somebody who reads Presidents of universities and out how to respond, or figured out So now, encampments are being rolled limited, we have, oh, here's an example, There was some sort of protest. The president of the University of They were in violation He called in the police and had it ended. With what result? That more than 700 members of the signed a statement protesting Dartmouth College, where I follow that situation closely The new president gets a The protesters are in The president has the police come The president receives a vote of censure first time any president in the more than So what I'm saying is it feels as out sooner or later by reality, Presidents and boards But you've got embedded faculties, simply, of course and because of But what I don't understand is, what is How do you go from the, senior members today are people who trained in the 60s? How do you go from anti What is the intellectual progression there's an intellectual explanation, The intellectual one is that a lot educate students into becoming radicals. I see, alright. Now, a lot of American, I would like such an extent that the job market would A lot of these people have nothing to add. They've never had anything to add. They teach grievance studies. And I always hoped, like a lot of people would discover, the graduates would were no jobs for them after learning cost of about 60, 000 bucks a year. But the, the faculty encouraged all, their opinions matter. And secondly, that they're informed. I will say this as strongly as I can. These students are narcissists they're not just narcissists, but Who thinks that the Israeli War Cabinet, alter its war policy because of a bunch of a war and never lost someone in a war. Why would any government alter its stop its war to get its hostages back It's preposterous. What do they think they're doing? Who do they think is listening to them? Why do they think they're important? Do they know how to clear house to house? Do they have any idea how to without any civilian casualties? Are they able to clear large areas wider than the London underground? Do they know how to find tunnel shafts? Do they know how to discern the is booby trapped and one which is not? None of these things. They've thought of none of them. So that's the narcissism thing and thing, Is that instead of being like, Why can't they just have peace? It's brilliant insight. Brilliant. No Israeli ever thought of that. instead of that, they actually run But we've seen this before, Peter. We saw this in the 60s. We saw it in the 70s. There were previous generations of people who had one idea of what not to be. Don't be a Nazi. That was their one political And it's not a bad place to start. Not a bad place to start. Don't be a Nazi. These people even now call themselves in 60s, a lot of the people who orientated alone, found themselves, for instance, even when they were hijacking planes. And some of the people, very interesting of the people involved in that, whose Nazis, don't let's do what our parents Jews from non Jews on hijacked planes. So when these students today at anti fascist, they believe they're And they behave as if it's available only to them. When they decide that in order to and anti white colonialist and much for or trying to ignore the rape and Europe. Ukraine. Again, I'm just going to give you a I'm as far away from Ukraine as can be. You were there. very hard to see how to get Russia out of the country that Russia has taken. Yeah. And every day the war continues, More and more of Ukraine gets smashed. They're able to do a little bit of They send in a drone, they attack a Russian Black Sea Fleet, that's fine. But Russia continues to live, more Whereas Ukraine, city by city, the understand the Russian chain of command, It wouldn't be the first time in in power haven't cared how many that is true. But it looks to That's but even at that, even at that much larger a population. They can afford to get ground down because they can replace their numbers. It's the all of that, grind down the Shouldn't Ukraine simply cut It worked out all right You take the bit of the You integrate entirely into the West, foreign investment, and 10, 20, 30 years isn't some option like that available it's not for me to advise them, I, because they've got, of course, That's true, but now you're talking to, and skin in the game than I do. I do, but they rely on American aid, to, which is why Europe hasn't stepped So America has some role to play here. All right. But what is your judgment? What is your, answer that thought. I find it difficult. I find it, let me say it, but I the Ukrainian army when they retook The morale was soaring. The morale was soaring. Yes. They surprised the world. I really did think then, if I might get to marry a Pole. The spring offensive last year did not. It just didn't work. Didn't work. And, there's a lot of self searching I would think at this point, and I don't many of whom just say, it's not going Nevertheless, I pretty much agree with you negotiation because the counter offensive And at the moment, the, Russian very brutal way to Kharkiv and, the, the point you make, I would agree with, thing that the Ukrainians understand it's not clear that any settlement up that was agreed to would Because we don't know with 100 Vladimir Putin wants to take. He has said he wants all of Ukraine. And he's made an awful lot Killed a lot of young and old But we don't really know, in my view, he is for the rest of the region. I've been to Moldova. The Moldovans seem to be very agitated. I was in the Baltic states last year. They're very worried. Now, my impression is, probably wouldn't break into NATO countries. I don't know. I was in Georgia some years happy to invade Georgia in 2008. So when people say things like, this on the right in America, who say things I've seen him do it before. yes. so yeah, he does do this kind of would West and East Ukraine Germany or North and South Korea? Or would he settle there and He wouldn't move on if there the Europeans pulled themselves If Germany showed. I'm putting this in I'm saying something that you So respond. Don't say. Yes, of course. Shy. You can rely on me. Yes, exactly. Exactly. But if the Germans pulled half the seriousness that the Poles small country have, half the seriousness that the Finns have demonstrated. The Swedes. That the Swedes of all people. Who imagined that? Yeah. That the Swedes have demonstrated. Then if Europe stood up for Ukraine and He would have no choice, or So the question then is, Olaf Scholz, Putin invades Ukraine, Germany, gives remarkable speeches all of us in the United States. These, we're going to get serious. There's an emergency addition We're going to increase I, some years ago, I was at It was a sort of trilateral. I think it's an, it's, Long enough in It was an off record. Your secret is safe with me. Exactly. It was an off record thing, but there encouraging speech in which he said, and rhetoric without a certain amount of chill Europe and Germany will have to at some to at some point be able to get to the for our way of life, but to kill for it. And I went up to this minister afterwards mind, I could quote you on that. Without attribution, obviously. But I said, if I could just, Absolutely not. Terror in his eyes. And I said, let me get this right. There are values you're wishing, for, but only off the record. look, a Ukrainian told me when I was there every day as France makes in a year. there is a global problem, of arms supplies. This is a case Israel. It's a case for Ukraine. They fire both conflict. They are firing with extreme precision in the case of Israel particularly but because they don't have that much skit. So the reason I mentioned this is because America, look at Russia, Russia is on It has turned around its economy which means it can do what it America, to be an ally of America And the Europeans, you I'm afraid extent, like the kids in Berkeley. We can no longer fathom the idea of war. We can't believe it. Oh, okay, again, here's This is the way it looks to me. Europe has two problems. One of them is Vladimir Putin. Poles, good looking, Amazingly enough, the Swedes. But Germany can't move without, I beg Germany and France and, alright. So that's one problem. The second problem is the one you of Europe, which has not abated. Europe is depopulating very rapidly. Every country in Europe, every below replacement birth rate. And at the same time the Muslim population and the society changes all the time. correct. The statistic I read the other day that population of Africa, some, hard to know but probably 60 percent of the gain, is There are going to be many empty look very attractive to poor people. From Sub Saharan, well from Are there not? This is predictable. It's in the press. Vladimir Putin is there. we have to make some decisions Is it worth protecting? How do we handle immigrants? What are the correctness? And I just don't see. None of them are serious. None them are serious. So, here I had a, to me, a shocking up because this is for you to speak and And I'm wondering if it I had a conversation with an I put all this to him. What about immigration? And the reply was, El Andalus wasn't so bad. When the, in the Muslim kingdom the Southern third of Spain, The Jews were permitted to live there and And maybe that option will be open to us. So has elite European opinion already All right, so what's going on? What is going on? you can tell your Irish friend If he doesn't mind it so far, turn Let me give one negative. The Muslim migrant to Ireland beheaded three gay men in Ireland. Ireland has often In the Republic? In the Republic. Ireland has had a fair share If it wants to import more, it should And your friend might say, on Andalus, good luck with that dream. And by the way, it wasn't Al Andalus was not great We were second class citizens. Yes. but okay. If you're happy to live as a second class explain to the public that every now Okay, deal. Is he going to be happy with that? Maybe. If he is happy with it, he should say it. He should stand up and He should say, we get such great things than we used to have in Ireland, Britain. I'm leaving, I'm treating Britain please you in the first place, least formally separate from Europe. Fourteen years of a Tory government. There's going to be an The present Prime Minister, David Cameron Bor One, two, three Prime Minister in these fourteen I put it to you, my Tory friend. Careful. Smallty conservative. Do not Stick me with the grotesque Oh, is it that A That the Torys They got Brexit through They went to the country and returned 80, Boris Johnson, Madison, 2019. Yeah. And after four. And they had not the slightest And after 14 years, even every full stop, but every Tory I know And willing to take a chance on labor, to be cooler toward free enterprise. We can't expect great leaps and We can't expect Britain to ascend to The United Kingdom is Deep freeze. Is this fair? Yes, it's generous. the Labour Party is led by, leadership is to say he's a leader. His, deputy Angela Rayner. Remind His deputy Angela Rayner is his shadow cabinet includes people foreign secretary at the moment. Might be foreign secretary. Some years ago on a chat show, on a quiz I've got this right, which monarch, he the fourth, and he said Henry the third. So he has a problem even understanding in an interview on the radio last it was possible for a man to become the right medical help, grow a cervix. we are not dealing with And, in fact, there's nobody in the shadow cabinet that's Every country in Europe, and maybe And particularly in Europe, The one exception is Britain, and the 14 years the Conservative Party has the contempt, the loathing, that Conservatives, sorry, who ought actually have the Conservatives they wasted their time. I said in an article in the Johnson reminded me of Dr. Faustus in Christopher Marlowe's version. Because Dr. Faustus, if you remember, Mephistopheles, wastes his time, pinches the nose of the Pope, and And then your time is up, and you go. Sells For nothing! Why did Rishi Sunak Climbed Stabbed Boris Johnson, just as Boris and Theresa May has stabbed people, and David Cameron, and everyone else. Why did Rishi Sunak climb through in order, as far as I can see, his I like to think that a country Alright, Douglas, the It was a dozen or 15 years ago Entitled, America Alone, and I confess, written and quite tightly argued, I on the show about the book, and, but I being a provocate, a provocateur here, but that's what it comes down to. I, you tell me if I'm right or wrong, have who knows where this is going to go. In the Middle East, the ultimate ultimate problem is in Tehran. Yes. Europe is in disarray, not all of You just said yourself the electoral continent is moving to the right. Goethe Wilders is the most popular Alright, there you have it. The polls are, we've already there are impressive governments. France, Germany, France, Spain, alright. So what do we make of the present I think a lot of what you've just sorry to say this, but is the Not a total absence, it has to be said. I'm not the greatest fan of Joe allies and has occasionally made However, I think it's without doubt mullahs in Tehran fear Joe Biden. Not really. Before Joe Biden came to office, bankrupted the Iranians. And Joe Biden has brought them back sometimes literally, with the cash. And, that's why they can afford to play like the 7th of October can happen. Funded, armed, trained by Iran. Why has Southern Lebanon got 15, or Israel because after the 2006 conflict, the, UN Security Council Which said that the area in the were in, they must retreat from And for the whole 18 years back, they've just built up the I've seen many of these rockets being I've been up to the northern border a lot. There's a lot of activity and it's a. As one, Israeli said to me, tandem bicycle going downhill. And the question isn't when, Now, this would not have happened put its foot down with Iran. And you're telling me that what we we used to be raised with, what my that the world Needs a strong America. Oh, you are telling me it's true. It's true. It's lethal without, and even, the I have great criticisms of yes, but it nothing to do with the world and yet Even the sort of Republican that is the position I'd like myself, but it's not available. It's not the you can't do it. Other people step in. Okay. Look at, look at the fact in the China have stepped in everywhere. And I'm not just talking militarily. look at the way that Look at the way in which mineral The Americans on top of that are the The Chinese are, no, we're and this goes back to this central on American campuses realize? That whilst they are being expensively each of them, there's a dozen students a lifestyle that these kids in America It ain't their birthright. It's not inevitable. They only have these rights because And if this generation of Americans Ha! They can ask the people of Israel what comes and hits you as hard as anything. Let me ask you one last question And, but give me a moment to set it up. We, the United States, It used to be American military fight in two major theaters at once. Jim Mattis, Secretary of State, Secretary of the Trump administration recognized do that anymore, so it's now doctrine. One major theater, one minor theater. That's where we are now. Theater one, Ukraine Theater two, Israel, Gaza, Lebanon, Theater three, China, All of this could go bad very fast. That's item one. Here's item two. I've done, I'm going to try correct me if I move in one. We have oddly enough, two incumbents President Biden in his eighties, let's put it as charitably as possible. He's not quite as quick off the It's sad. Your word. And then we have Donald Trump who's another, who is himself 77 years old. And who seems erratic, But these seem to be the twelve to toss in Robert Kennedy Jr. there is this strange, I feel, there's a kind of free floating This is a really dangerous Moment. Yeah. And these are the choices. wait, let's, withdraw from the Oh, there are all kinds of strange. let's find some third party camp. So what would your word be? As we enter the presidential? This is springtime. It'll be summer. The election is in the autumn. what would, what advice would How should they weigh the reality as Yeah, I don't I don't like advising a vote in about how to vote. there are some of us who hope that's only your, you apply for your citizenship. But go ahead. Yeah, I came as a signer. I take the point. but, there's one thing I just completely right about these. The idea that there could be three that, that is when American dominance to decide whether or not it's serious. And there are a lot of people in and right, Republicans and Democrats. But there's one other thing that has lot of the energy on the right now is we even secure the southern border? And why don't we do that before And I actually think, although nevertheless, there's something in it. There's something in it. And I sometimes refute them by saying, weren't supporting our allies in be going to the southern border? I think not. It's not a lack of resources. It's a lack of will. But that thing of the southern border, I wrote about in The Strange Death just about Europe, but also about Which is that the great challenge of referred to earlier, which is billions they do not have our advantages. They come from countries which are impoverished, violent, and much more. Not all of them, but that's pretty And they would like to Can we say no? Now, Europeans are not In the last 14 years, the Conservative promise from David Cameron that he of migrants a year, net, coming into which shouldn't be impossible. It was where we were in the 1990s. And you are an island, after all. We're an island. It's not as if we don't have Yes. and, I The immigration figures for government, were almost a million, net. Fourteen years later. Fourteen years later. They were off by scales. And, it's the same in America. And people don't, a lot of people outside understand it inside America, as I know People coming across the southern border, millions of people coming to America same inevitability, as Europe has done. And it'll lead to the same thing. It's completely divorced from reality. And it's it's not just weak, what the politicians It's positively treacherous. Because what they're doing unstable society for their successors. And some of the Democrats have said and South America are very like us. They're Christians. You want to see the footage? Thank you. Of who's coming across I was watching the other day and photos and everybody here seems the whole world is what I it's cheaper Africa today, illegally, than it If you take a flight to Mexico from Maybe you spend 5, 000 bucks to a cartel That's a bargain. And you're in America. And America seems to be weaker than So it's cheaper. It might be 10, 000 to go to Europe. So is America to steal Is America going to be the same you all just hope yes. And the problem about that, it's of the, turkey, The turkey is, had a good life and enjoys itself One day after the next, seems charming. People come and feed the turkey And then one day it's Thanksgiving. And, so when, people say to incredibly self satisfied When they say things Or, It's just going to be the What you're saying is alarmist, like It's just all going to be the same. One day, it's Thanksgiving. Last question. The last time we recorded a program, about the strange death of Yoruba, And I'm going to repeat the same question, Things have changed, generally ask you the same question. In 2024, given the state of the world, disruptions of artificial intelligence How does one lead a good life? I think I answered that before leading what was regarded as And I would repeat that. I'd add something to it. I've changed a bit in the last and readers have noticed it. And I've changed because of what I've and specifically the response of a sort of view among older Israelis weaker, a bit soft, the years of peace And, they want to just party in Tel Aviv. They want to go out to the clubs. They want to be on Instagram and And, when the moment of test and trial came for They'd be magnificent. Magnificent. I've seen them up close, I've seen people who've just lost, from the battlefield to a funeral These are remarkable young men and women. Now, they understand something, And I said this a few weeks But life, isn't just given to you. Life is something you have to fight for. You have to fight for the right somebody else has to fight for you. If you want to live a good or you expect somebody else to. I believe very strongly today that the rest of the West, are going because something is going to happen. I don't know what. But something is going to happen in the kind of reality that the people people of America, to the people of And we should prepare for that, and that, and we should encourage them, thing they're in, these ignoramuses, We've got to tell them that The age of grievance will be over And we should encourage that, everybody. And if these other people who want to talk about things that are so banal and non binary, no, don't have time for you. Get out the way. Life's too serious. Douglas Murray, thank you. Thank For Uncommon Knowledge, the Hoover shooting today from Fiesole,