Hey everyone, Dave Farina here. To get ready to understand a lot of different terminology complicated questions about them. Because let's go through them all together in as condensed for each of the nine units the exam will cover. these will be all the very basics. We will discuss substances and mixtures, electron configurations, valence electrons, and ionic compounds. topics as they arise but it will be a good so let's start with an abbreviated An atom is the smallest unit of an element, which such as copper. If we cut a copper rod in half, doing this many times until we finally reach the and that's a copper atom. Every element is made a different number of protons inside, and we wouldn't have copper anymore. bonds to form molecules. Sometimes molecules can only one type of atom, like diatomic oxygen and come together to form a molecule, we would call atoms makes carbon dioxide. One oxygen atom A pure substance can be an element or compound. element, that's a pure substance, because it have a sample of water, which is a compound, made of just one thing, water molecules. Each hydrogen and oxygen, but it is still a water are what determine the macroscopic properties compound together, we get a mixture. Notice that with totally separate identities and properties. different elements to form a single molecule, with water. But with a mixture, we have substances simply mixed together in the same space. heterogeneous. A homogeneous mixture involves distributed evenly in the container. For example, in water and stir, it will disperse evenly within portion of this mixture, it would look exactly the one another. By contrast, a heterogeneous mixture so every section will not look the same. An We can clearly see that they will form distinct we see only oil. If we zoom in on another in at the interface, we see oil and water So to summarize, we have pure substances and element or a compound. A mixture is substance is mixed together, and this can Next we are going to want to review atomic neutrons, and electrons to form atoms, Looking inside an atom, the protons and neutrons far away from the nucleus. The proton and neutron grams, which is a trillionth of a trillionth times less mass than that, at around 9.1 x the proton and electron each hold the fundamental though for the proton that will be positive, The neutron is neutral meaning it has no charge. in its nucleus. For example, a carbon atom has in the universe has six protons in its nucleus, not carbon. This is fundamentally how we define because the atomic number of an atom is equal element has its own unique atomic number, and The mass number of an atom is equal to the since each nucleon has a mass of approximately element has a particular atomic number, because unlike the number of protons, the number element. For example, carbon typically has six will produce a mass number of 12. But it can also or eight neutrons, for a mass number of 14. Atoms neutrons are called isotopes of a given element, but different isotopes of carbon can have six, different mass numbers. The atomic mass of an of the periodic table, is the average of all the respect to their relative abundance. So it's element. Most carbon is carbon-12, with a little therefore the average mass of all carbon as this equation determines. We just multiply that isotope's relative abundance, and add them Finally, since protons are positively charged atom will have the same number of protons and become negatively charged, because the number of positively charged ones. And if an atom loses because the number of positively charged charged ones. When an atom is not electrically or anion if positive or negative, respectively. understand how the masses of existing isotopes for any element using a technique called mass vaporizes it, ionizes it, and sends it through a field. The particles then have their paths to charge ratio, and this information is received displays this mass to charge ratio, which for atomic mass, against their relative abundance. So naturally-occurring isotopes for this particular horizontal axis, and their relative abundances on was initially determined for every element. is equal to the number of protons in the nucleus. of protons plus the number of neutrons in the number of neutrons in any atom by finding the mass charge on an atom is the number of protons minus values using something called a nuclide symbol. element, with the atomic number in subscript to left, and the charge in superscript to the right. so just remember the definitions of these terms nuclide symbol for magnesium. We see 12 down slightly redundant, because every magnesium atom as a magnesium atom. Then we see 24 up here, 12 plus 12 is 24. And then this plus two charge to the neutral atom, which leaves 10 electrons. understood, we need to be able to talk about is hard, since molecules are way too small to see, an unbelievable number of molecules. That's A mole is just a word that describes a number, very large number that allows us to convert carbon weighs on average about 12 atomic mass a mole of carbon atoms will therefore weigh 12 way of converting between atomic mass units in terms of numbers, but have that number be so see with our eyes and do chemistry with. In other and do chemistry with it, but still be talking ratios in which these molecules react. The number which is equal to 6.022 x 1023, which is nearly a of carbon atoms in 12 grams of carbon, because The mass of one mole of a substance is have a molar mass equal to their atomic mass units. Compounds will also have a molar mass, so to find the molar mass of a compound we simply molecule, and then we express that number in It should be very easy to convert between grams to know the number of moles in 28.35 grams of by adding up the atomic masses of all the atoms C2H5O2N, we get two times twelve for the two two times sixteen for the two oxygens, and values up will give us a mass of 75, which the molecular mass, but if expressed in grams or the mass contained in one mole of glycine We will multiply our gram value by this conversion the bottom so that grams cancel, and doing the We can go the other way as well, from moles to which has the molecular formula C6H8O6. Say in grams. Once again, adding up the atomic we can get a molar mass of 176 grams per mole. If factor, we can see that moles cancel, and we With moles understood, we can start to better as well as how these compositions discussing empirical and molecular formulas. percent of the molecular mass that is represented calculate if we know the molecular formula of a mass. If we know the molecular mass, we can just contributed by each element. Let's say we want know that ammonia has a molecular mass of 17 has a mass of 14 atomic mass units, and each for a total of 17. We can simply calculate the over the total mass of the compound to get one nitrogen atom is 14, then 14 over 17 will give that the nitrogen atom in ammonia represents 82% atoms have a total mass of 3, and 3 over 17 gives so hydrogen represents 18% of the mass of the so these calculations do make sense. great way to determine the molecular formula of an out the empirical formula of a compound, which of atoms of different elements in a compound. which is a compound consisting of only carbon dioxide and water. After performing some basic grams of carbon and 0.287 grams of hydrogen in the they do not tell us anything about the empirical mass. Instead, we must convert these to moles the molar masses of each element to convert to 12.01 grams gives us 0.142 moles of carbon atoms hydrogen, 0.287 grams of hydrogen times 1 mole atoms in the original sample. Let's divide both we can try to get a whole number ratio. 0.142 over or a 1 to 2 ratio. So we can see from these as many hydrogen atoms as carbon atoms formula for the unknown substance, CH2. We must which tells us the actual number of atoms of each many more than one carbon atom, but however many twice as many hydrogen atoms. At any rate, we compound containing any combination of elements, convert the mass into moles to find the molar We can also get the molecular formula if we have get through mass spectrometry. In such a case, the formula unit are required to get a total the previous example with an empirical formula of 42. The mass of CH2 is 14, 12 from carbon and two we just multiply the formula unit by three to get it obeys the ratio of the empirical formula, and With empirical and molecular formulas the atom and learn more about electrons. an atom? This will be important to understand Again, atoms contain both protons and electrons, are attracted to one another. This attraction which says that the force between two charged charges divided by the square of the distance an attraction, if the same charge it will be greater force, and closer together means greater Electrons themselves reside in things called of probability surrounding the nucleus where an kinds of quantum numbers which will describe the principal quantum number n. This refers to resides in. A higher n value means a higher next number will be the angular momentum quantum meaning if n is 1, L is 0. If n is 2, L can be of orbital the electron is in. An L value of 0 and they increase in radius as n increases. If lobes that extend on each of the X, Y, and Z which look a bit stranger. S, p and d are the we have the magnetic quantum number, m sub L. and we are discussing d orbitals, L can be -2, orbitals per energy level, because there are five to an individual orbital. For precisely the energy level, with m sub L values of -1, 0, and 1, with an m sub L value of zero. Lastly, there is positive one half or negative one half, and any atomic orbital, each pair will receive up or spin down. The key thing to understand is and the L value describes a subshell. So there subshell, and a 3p subshell, and a 3d subshell. within a subshell, and m sub s differentiates Now we need to understand how electrons the energy of the orbital increases, as we are law says the attraction to the nucleus will the energy increases from s to p to d orbitals. 2p, 3s, 3p, and so forth. But this pattern isn't the first deviation being that the 3d orbitals this diagram, we can see the precise order of the system will always want to be at the lowest energy that an atom will arrange its electrons. This called the Aufbau principle. Additionally there is of degenerate orbitals, which means orbitals of of d orbitals will always be, we must place one them up. So for these p orbitals, each one gets generating pairs by placing spin down electrons. orbital, and the specific arrangement of atom is called the electron configuration will depend on its electron configuration, so The convention for reporting an electron that are occupied along with a number to indicate item in an electron configuration should have the to the type of orbital, and a superscript that that subshell. So this would be read 2p4, which 2p orbitals. Let's make sure we understand that many orbitals are being described, as that number s orbital, 3 p orbitals, and 5 d orbitals. we are starting with the lowest energy orbital, orbitals according to the Aufbau principle and to an orbital. A convenient way to follow the on the periodic table correspond to which we must understand that each period, or or a particular n value. The first row we must know that this section containing groups p block. The transition metals are the d block, though we won't be too concerned with f orbitals one behind the period number in terms of principal 4th period it's actually the 3d orbitals that of looking at the periodic table, then the Aufbau to right and up to down on the table. Starting 2s, 2p, 3s, 3p, 4s, 3d, 4p, and so forth, which principle. This will make it much easier for us We should now be able to assign the electron do if we simply look at where an element sits on that the element will utilize by going left to to the element in question. Take chlorine for start up at the top left corner, and read off the so 2s2 and 2p6 from period 2. Then 3s2, and 2, 3, 4, 5 to get to chlorine. 3p5. That gives for chlorine. This makes perfect sense, as and this is the lowest energy configuration With electron configuration understood, we of the periodic table, and why elements are take a closer look at the periodic table Looking at the table now, we can see rows called will be in the same group because they have they have the same number of valence electrons, In group 1, all the configurations end in s1. In group, the electron configurations end the same move forward and learn about the periodic table, determine the reactivity and properties of any the ones that are available to do chemistry. Those and are therefore not valence electrons, are the inner shells, which do not participate electrons, and just a few valence electrons, We must comprehend a set of periodic trends, in a predictably periodic way as we move in some will look at is the atomic radius. It's difficult convention is to tabulate lists of covalent radii, the nuclei of two identical atoms that are bonded the radius of the atom outside of the context various covalent radii, we notice that the radius This is because when we go down a row on the thus adding a shell and placing the valence makes the atom larger, as well as its covalent the right along a period, the covalent radius will as the addition of electrons doesn't seem like must realize that as we move to the right we are is increasing, and the more protons there are attraction that will pull the electrons in the are a few deviations to this trend, particularly a particular period, but in general, atomic period. So radius increases going down and left, So that covers covalent radii, which essentially to this radius when an element loses or gains number of electrons should affect the radius loses an electron, the remaining valence electrons but distributed amongst fewer electrons, This means that any cation has a smaller ionic atom. This difference can be dramatic if all the in the removal of an entire shell, dropping electrons, the effective nuclear charge will be and there will be additional electron which results in an expansion of the radius. We three valence electrons are lost, it will lose a dramatically reduced radius. Sulfur on the the two additional electrons will cause the are no additional protons to pull the electrons, We might sometimes compare isoelectronic the same electron configuration. For example, exhibit the electron configuration 1s22s22p6. different ions can have this configuration if the number of electrons. When comparing isoelectronic number increases. This is because they will all since they have the same number of electrons, this pulls the electrons closer to the nucleus. defined as the energy required to remove the and in its ground state configuration. The higher to remove the electron, which tells us something the effective nuclear charge felt by the electron. which is the energy required to generate the ionization energies, like the second ionization ionization energy will be larger than the last, electrons the more positive the ion becomes, as The electron that is removed will always be the the outermost electron gets farther away easier to remove. Every time we add a shell, so ionization energy decreases as we move down the going to the right within a period, we can expect time. As we go, we are adding protons, contracting so they are harder to remove. That means in and left, ionization energy will increase up and That means helium is the most difficult element full and close to the nucleus, while francium is shell that is very far from the nucleus. can be determined by photoelectron spectroscopy. remove an electron from a particular subshell vertical axis tells us how many of those electrons means a greater binding energy which means with the 1s electrons. Then moving to the right nucleus. When we see these spectra we should be subshell based on its position on the horizontal each subshell based on the height of the peak. This is precisely the reverse concept of involved with adding an electron to a neutral charged ion. This process could absorb energy a negative electron affinity will mean that the Looking at this table, we can see that the since the harder it is to remove an electron, the easier it is to add an electron, and thus a like fluorine and chlorine have very large endow them with noble gas electron configuration, electron affinity increases going up and Noble gases do not follow this trend, as with not favorable to add another electron, so we And finally, let's examine electronegativity. an atom can attract electron density towards electrons are shared in chemical bonds. The more its electronegativity. Electronegativity will a greater effective nuclear charge will attract trend will be the same as the ionization energy the periodic table. Fluorine will have the have the lowest. Again, we will exclude the noble shells, they are not likely to share electrons, elements. There is a common point of confusion make the distinction between electronegativity and actual ionization and an associated energy change relative calculation of how well an atom attracts any transformation, and it is listed on an so to put it all together, atomic radius increases energy, electron affinity, and electronegativity And that concludes a review of Unit 1. I'll