Welcome to another Mathologer video. Let how to solve an equation by playing laser strange but just wait and see. Okay and here's my laser tag gun. Here's the right. The leading coefficient of our This tells the turtle to walk one unit in the counterclockwise direction. coefficient is 5 which tells the turtle very speedy turtle. Probably doesn't like quarter turn counterclockwise. The next The last coefficient is three and the another three units. Now we place our laser the turtle. But of course a straight shot So like billiard players of old we will try this. BUT, our bouncing rules are special. bounces off making a right angle, like laser shot slightly differently we can maybe for the turtle. But what's the found a solution to our polynomial killer shot our laser beam began with a game we are playing here it turns out solution of our equation. Don't believe five plus three that's eight minus one the turtle back into the game. hopefully we can find another solution little more. Okay keep going. There, a which means that -3 is a second solution but we'll worry about that later ok. was. And with suitable adjustments our polynomial equation. What are the degree polynomial will require more our example the turtle always always after each segment. Also the turtle deals polynomial by walking backwards instead turtle doesn't move but he still makes a one thing that may go wrong is that the enough so that the laser beam will miss. beam to bounce off the full line look at this. So it misses but on one of those extensions. It may seem a other hand, you've already accepted speedy it's definitely a little late to start and just run with it you'll see it all this crazy system work? Let me now take mathematical world of turtle tag. This method named after the Austrian engineer about 150 years ago. It seems that Lill's but it is now largely forgotten. I article by Thomas Hull, origami mathematics. We'll get to the imagine a number of you have already just Google turtle graphics and all will was also Thomas Hull who was the first method. I've set up this web page over The link is shown at the top and also in the coefficients of a cubic polynomial You can then aim your laser by dragging isn't it? Let's now have a closer look at top is the polynomial p(x) whose zeros positive slope of about 0.28. Then get about 1.4. Close but no banana. Now, exactly the distance between the blue cool proof near the end of this video. So, at the turtle at some slope is to and then we graphically adjust things can also take on a negative value this. Okay I think we can all agree that shooting turtles is really really cool. want to do now is show you some of the this method. That includes a clever way get free solutions to closely related quadratic equations by simply drawing and an ingenious way to solve cubic efficient rapid-fire iterative turtle a very surprising very beautiful and famous Pascal triangle. And, of course, this is Mathologer and so proofs of how all this works. Quite a that pace. Okay, well anyway I'll begin the ever more challenging. things get too scary. Okay off we go. we found of shooting our turtle to give flip the picture vertically. Alright this another closely related equation. What's Well, our turtle knows it all. So, let's turtle is on its way and again begins by usual counterclockwise turn. But that next stage. Therefore there's got to be a Turn again. and so we can leave the plus sign in more. Backwards again and so the equation for the flipped path but what the flip the starting slopes of our slopes we had previously and that means plus one and plus three, the negatives of this works for any polynomial equation. polynomial the solutions to the new original solutions. Very cute, hmm? :) Anyway here's a first easy challenge for you: Try to find a turtle-free proof of this you can answer in the comments. Now by diagram we get more free solutions and Here's a rotation that gets us to second challenge: chase the turtle around represents. How are this equation and its equation below and what's the general comments. So in my last video I tried to convince much more interesting than the aimless to have suffered through. Now here's some to solve quadratic equations. Okay here's have solutions minus 1 and minus 2. A the corresponding turtle path has three consists of two segments making a right beautiful theorem about right angles and trial and error approach of swivelling Do you know the theorem? No? Well maybe once did? We'll find out in a second. Start with a circle, draw one of its circumference. Then this triangle there that? This beauty is called Thales theorem. pretty, isn't it and you can see what it quadratic equation using the turtle path the midpoint and draw the blue circle. where to aim our laser and so also the How super pretty is that. Definitely something like this. How about you? If you draw the turtle path on a possible to use paper folding based on equations but there's more. Lill's method equations with paper folding. This amazing Margarita Piazzola Beloch in 1936. folding trick works using our cubic distance from the final red point to the horizontal line the same distance above. Now do the same for this distance and final segment of the laser beam and between the two horizontal lines, there first segment of the laser beam over Time to begin folding. Take the paper and laser beam. Then because we've got a will fall smack on top of its blue copy on the green horizontal. Similarly, the vertical. Let's do this.There, magic :) There green lines. This means that starting with the path of the turtle we can find solutions to black points onto the green lines. Okay crease pins down the middle segment of a is auto pilot. Also a super nice case you're wondering, here's our second Great! And maybe you've heard people say and compass. Have you heard that? I don't is exactly the fact that paper folding can more powerful than ruler and compass equations. Okay, one more super nice property before Here's our cubic again. Recall that we corresponding to beam slopes 1 and 3. Of real solutions by sweeping the laser also another iterative way of finding as usual. Now forget about the turtle laser beam path is a new turtle path. solution for our new path. Now what's equation is also a solution of our minus 3 corresponding to the slope 3. But Forget about the turtle path again and path. And here's a solution. That's slope 1 which, as we know, is also a combine all our solutions into one So we get the same solutions as before. twice, corresponding to two green angles. look at the polynomial it becomes multiplicity two. In fact we can factor green solution minus 1 has multiplicity iterative method picks up the basic Lill's method does not. Very neat Earth should turning laser paths into some details in the proof at the end of sketch of what's happening. After finding of one of the green factors down there. second turtle path corresponds to this this quadratic, we get rid of the blue factor. The final turtle path corresponds calculates the remaining green zero. Very proofs. I'll now show you why Lill's incentive to stick it out, at the very incarnation of Pascal's triangle that I preparing this video. I'll begin with a sketch of a proof of cubic. So what I want to show is that our slope is equal to the signed distance to do this, we are going to successively 3 and 4. Okay, so that first distance down there is just the first coefficient which is 1, notice that the same green angle pops up of the initial laser beam is just the minus that slope is the input x for our Sohcahtoa? The length of this yellow the aqua 1 which is minus x. Next, this 5. Therefore this aqua segment has length yellow segment has length tan of green next blue segment of the turtle pass is this long. Fancy, hmm? Repeating this distance between the blue and red points. polynomial just written in a very is our beginning cubic we just expand. So if we found an x to make this final solution to our cubic equation. And isn't it. But it gets even more magical. its Horner form. I still remember related mathematical miracle from Herrn teacher who sparked what became my was over 40 years ago back in Germany. wonderful surprise to discover that at just &quot;synthetic division&quot;, the Horner form all those years ago. Let me finish by then will also explain why iterating Horner form gives a very simple and Let's say we are looking at the specific corresponding to an initial slope of +2. from the inside out like this: 1 times plus 7 that's 1. And, finally, minus 2 lengths of our aqua segments are just efficient way of evaluating the miraculous bit, by calculating these synthetic division, which means that plus 2 in a very sneaky way. How, what, why, where? Well the result of dividing a cubic like this is a quadratic plus a and you should really check this, the polynomial are the first three those three there, and that the remainder So, again, we can divide a polynomial by a horner form. Pretty damn miraculous, isn't learning about and committing to memory agree? Now for iterating turtles the factor corresponds to one of the the remainder vanishes like this... Almost there. The remaining solutions of solutions of this quadratic equation,..., But, as you can see, and as one easy quadratic turtle path has exactly the that means that we can use the laser that is why turtles iterate. Let it Very, very cool, right? And that's just fascinating aspects that I was tempted generalization of Lill's method to also the beautiful characterization of turtle paths and what happens when we different from 90 degrees. Maybe another then check out some of the references in promise and show you an animation of of Pascal's triangle. I haven't seen it be a cute little original discovery. before, please let me know. Anyway enjoy