Hello, healers. My name is Ben I'm here today with my father, founder Dr. Ralph W Moss. Good morning, Dad. Good morning, Ben. So I understand that today a little bit about broccoli. What have you got for us? Well, the topic is, is broccoli, components of broccoli Oh, okay. So in what way? And where's the science? So the the main thing about broccoli is that they contain And it's a very interesting chemical. Most of this work was done at Johns University in Baltimore He passed away, Paul Talalay. The reason that I knew him was because we were near neighbors And in fact, is it still a Talalay Forest from where we lived. So he discovered this molecule? Sulforaphane? He did. I'm not sure that he discovered I'm not sure. But he certainly did the most of the work which were so deep and so profound that Hopkins, like most great medical universities, But they gave him a laboratory. They brassica I think it was called Meaning and similar cruciferous vegetables. And he for about 20 years ran center of analysis of broccoli So if you look up broccoli and cancer, the majority of the articles Umhm, very interesting. So what, can you summarize for us you've been able to find out Well, broccoli have a very profound effect in killing And, you know, again, the more important study for my point of view, was the one done by Max Wicha, which the director of the Comprehensive Cancer showing that broccoli and sulfurophane kill cancer, stem cells. Umhm, okay. And just a little background, also a fairly conventional facility This is not somebody's, Right. It's a major research Probably the the outstanding cancer center in the upper Midwest One of them. I don't know how you define upper Midwest, And Max Wicha was a, is a world class scientist who was chosen when they came He was chosen to be the first director So we're talking about, you know, Nobel I was so lucky that it fell into the hands and imaginative people to go ahead and do this study And one of the reasons chemotherapy and also radiation therapy don't effectively kill cancer stem cells. So you're good at addressing Wicha or Dr. Talalay, vegetable that everybody can purchase highly malignant, dangerous stem cells, but that our chemotherapy doesn't do that I can you can see how how revolutionary that finding is, very careful scientific terms. I just find it what you would consider mainstream or, the bastions of conventional treatments A into sulforaphane, as you said, cancer stem cells, which has still sort of not really permeated the knowledge base of most conventional oncologists So but for our audience, who may not be familiar first of all, let me just say that this is a key component And shameless plug. You can learn more about that But most people, I think, don't know Could you give us sort of the the quickie overview of what a cancer stem cell is and what its role is in cancer? The cancer stem cell perpetuates the cancer. It survives the conventional treatment. It is the source of the recurrence recurrence of of cancer, of tumors. And it basically directs the to the cancer as a whole. It actually it does cells are cells They reproduce themselves and produce another cell, So they have the capacity and their line going, but also produce a another So this, the cancer stem cell is more than the general of the cancer It's also the recruiting office So this is how tumors form. That's the that's I would say, of the shape of of a cancer it's it's directed by the cancer Now, as a layperson, I think of a cell Or it can change itself Is that a property that these cancer Yes, it is that that's why They're very And if something is needed the cancer stem cell can produce the daughter cells that can accomplish that task. Whatever the cancer needs, the cancer so it's acting like an organ And this is sort of the brains of the Are there conventional treatments that can help to kill Well, conventional cancer treatments, it's been pretty much shown I won't say that none, where maybe one or two regular chemo drugs There are drugs, repurposed drugs The most famous of these is metformin, drug for type two diabetes in the world, which could be acting But one of the ways but metformin has its own side effects, so it isn't entirely a benign drug. All right. But you're saying that there are natural and broccoli is among them. So tell us a little bit that study or studiesthat relate to that. So broccoli is one of the big five. What Dwight McKee, our friend And that's I won't go through all of them. But anyway, it is I did I did want to call your attention coming from Max, Wicha's And I, if I can, I'd like to just read Ben. Sure. So what they say cells in breast cancer they're talking has profound implications In this study, we evaluated Sulforaphane, a natural compound derived from broccoli in inhibiting breast cancer stem cells So in the laboratory the clinical effects, in other words, to actual human cancer patients. But just let's bear with me for a moment and we'll talk about The sulfurophane decreased the population certain of cancer by 65% to 80% in human breast cancer It reduced the the size and number stem cell by 8 to 125 fold and produced. That was for the size cell like things 45 to 75% reduction. And injections of this into into the mice eliminated breast cancer stem cells in living animals the tumor growth So in other words, once even if you re implanted it wouldn't grow, apparently because So the conclusions were that sulfuraphane obviously derived from broccoli and has a beneficial effect the markers of cancer stem cells. These findings, and I quote, support prevention of breast cancer stem cells and warrant further clinical evaluation. This was a paper from Clinical Cancer Research, one of the top journals in the field 2010, Yes, well, that's compelling. So that was in a lab and that's very encouraging data. But how does that translate into what could be actionable for someone in our audience I mean, should they just be binge eating broccoli or should they look to get this in an extract Or is it inconclusive in terms of Because it was only a mouse study Yeah, it's not entirely inconclusive. I think the and all natural supplements, when it comes to prevention, it's probably sufficient to use just the diet, the broccoli, and especially the broccoli sprouts, I think, if I remember correctly, in them than in just plain broccoli. Mm hmm. But for treatment. Yeah. I mean, it's a it's a maddening thing that these discoveries Paul Talalay was talking about this Max Wicha was talking about this And we still don't have a single, rigorous clinical trial on this. But I do very much want to bring your a clinical trial that was done in Germany because even though it isn't enough but I think the audience will be very, So let me let me walk you through that. It was it was called the POUDER Pilot Study POUDER, It was it was published in 2020. It was accepted for publication in 2019. And it was a study, a clinical trial, what's called a pilot study, meaning it's but it was just to see how you know, a small on the proposed treatment. So the patients were all patients pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma And of course, as most people know, that's a very aggressive type of cancer. And so in Germany, in Heidelberg, and the Yale of of cancer centers who were getting palliative chemotherapy. That's to say it wasn't in that but they were put into two groups, It wasn't a blinded study for reasons But the people who are getting were given 15 capsules of pulverized broccoli sprouts and and some other some other substances And 29 patients were included and 11 were in the placebo group. So the the things, their survival and the feasibility Now, here's the key sentence The mean death rate was lower pancreatic cancer patients who who got the broccoli sprout pills. Okay. The during the first six months after the intake, one day on day, 38% of the patients with it, with the pancreatic cancer had died. Who got the placebo, and 0% of those who got the broccoli on day ninety These were very advanced patients, 25% of the patients That's to say we're not getting 25% had died And on day 180, which is the six month mark, 43% of the patients in the placebo and 25% of those in the supplement So it was about half about half the there was obviously a higher it was higher survival rate But there was a high dropout group and 55% of the placebo group So this was this was disappoint thing. Why would 72% of the people Well, the intake of 15 capsules per day was difficult for some patients, And the broccoli sprouts digestive problems, nausea and vomiting. So this was the reason that, you know, at the end of the this study, 180 days, the results were not statistically significant to begin with and a lot of people But I think the key point one intervention, it clearly lowered going up to the point of 180 days. But the patients were dropping, because they found the if they found the the capsules And I can believe this because I once I was trying to make a green smoothie, to, you know, publish this as a And so I bought some nice broccoli and I started making up my green smoothies until I added in the powdered broccoli. It was awful, absolutely awful. I threw it away. It's it ruined any of it, So I'm not so you know, I'm It's bitter. It was bitter. But, you know, it has that sulfur-y kind of rotten egg type of now to it. So the name for a obviously comes back Correct? Correct. So I don't think But what occurred to me about this this study is that there are four and I could add another five to the list, natural compounds that inhibit or destroy And I don't think our ancestors gorged on broccoli. I mean, of course, Well, I like to gorge on it, too, But you know what I'm saying? They didn't know about sprouts what I would think is that from a scientific point of view, it has to reduce the number of variables, between the treatment group So that's the normal method But from a patient point of view, you, sulfuraphane I won't go into the whole history It doesn't actually exist So it doesn't actually exist because it's it's actually created When a when something on the plant, that these two elements So when you eat it, and you bite on that it just like a caterpillar coming. And that caterpillar is going Right. And it's almost all stomach. Right. So it's going to it's going to have they try to. It's the broccoli's self-defense Absolutely. Interesting. Yes. So in order to get the sulfuraphane, you have to eat raw broccoli. Okay. Because the enzyme, That enzyme is destroyed So if you eat, cooked regular cooked though it could have But in terms of the sulforaphane, stem cell element within the broccoli, you have to either eat raw broccoli or which you can do as a, you know, canape I mean, to have it as. True, to take a. Crudite So you could have that put it and it'd be fine. Or you can eat the cooked broccoli, floret of raw broccoli or one piece of radish with it, the same enzyme as the broccoli does, and it'll activate the the other chemical, I said there were two. The one that's destroyed is the enzyme So you'll then reactivate the broccoli by eating one raw floret or just a just one raw red radish would do which is a little milder But in any case, you have to have you have to add back the enzyme if you like to eat cooked broccoli broccoli, you'll get back the benefit or you can. The other easy all over the country, And then you can. Since eating salads is a very good thing, on your salad and you'll get 200 times the amount of sulforaphane And by the way, as far as I understand it, because it's patented by Johns Hopkins, a little contribution to Johns Hopkins Is there a way to grow broccoli? Sprout yourself if you want to do that. I tried it a few times and they got moldy, which didn't happen with the mung bean I found them a little difficult. I'm no expert, Maybe you need to boil, the bottle better or something. But any case, I, I, you know, that my experience was Absoluty and also broccoli seeds. So there are people doing it, I assume I just don't have So one way or the other, to our audience Absolutely. Absolutely. And the whole class of compounds, it's Here we have in hand something that We know the cancer stem if anything is the single root cause. And it's available to us either as a supplement or just as a food. I would say, yeah, if you have a strong aversion to eating broccoli But if you do, and and I wouldn't stop there. And this is very important I would concentrate on a group of different foods and supplements, So you've listed some out, though. You said broccoli, brussel sprouts. Cabbage. Cabbage. Mm hmm. And broccoli sprouts. And it's sort of low hanging fruit or vegetable that I think it makes sense If one is really actively trying to have an anti-cancer diet, It's sort of a no brainer. So unless there's No, I would I don't to think in terms of magic bullets mind, spirit effect, Hypocrates, the Greek physician said let food So you want to approach this that this is something you can do. It doesn't mean to negate everything else But this is in your hands in their hands. So I would stick with that. And, you know, to benefit us Well, thanks, Dad. I very much appreciate all that info. And for now, for The Moss Report, I'm How are you healing today? Thank you for watching. We really appreciate all of the support. Please leave a like, a comment, subscribe to the channel, We wish you all the