What external drive should I get? Hi, everyone. Leo Notenboom here for askleo.com. with a very, very common question. Given how often I recommend using external let's look at some of the things to look The first thing to be aware Make sure the drive you get is big enough to hold the backups Now, of course, you expect to keep your backups, what kind My rule of thumb is to make sure your bigger than the amount of data currently So, for example, if my drive has 442gb of data on it, drive that is at least Since 442gb is roughly half a gigabyte, I'd round up to one five Now, the good news here is that external It's not hard to get one And as with most things storage related, you can't go wrong So given that one five terabytes is probably not that common a drive four or six because the incremental cost And that will increase the usable As your needs over time Today, you've got half a terabyte next you might have a terabyte, those backups could be pushing If you get something much larger today, Now, the other thing to look for is There are two things I want to talk about the interface and then You'll want to make sure that your Fortunately, as I record this, it would be If you're getting a USB drive, because it's faster than its predecessor, fast enough so that the interface The amount of time a backup is going to take with USB three, it'll just There really is no reason not to get a USB Just do that. The other question that comes up a lot, There are external SSDs. Absolutely. It's not worth it. They are more expensive for the amount In other words, for a given amount of storage, say, expensive than a traditional spinning There's no point. There's literally no point in having SSDs are great for what they do. They are faster to read from. When you're backing up, They're just as slow, If you're going to get an SSD, use it as an internal drive The expense just isn't justified Now, I will say that there's We are now at the point where you could be Great. like, and then use it Assuming you don't have a better use somewhere else, and assuming you have But both of those are Like I said, if you've got an external SSD or if you've got an SSD, feel free to throw it in external There's no reason not to. But if you're about to buy an external drive, there's really no reason to spend Now, there are two approaches to power, External drives actually They will get all of the power That's convenient. That's great for portable drives. That's what I do with the external drive. I take along with me when I'm I just throw in my backpack and I've got a backup drive with me You're backing up a desktop as I am. Then it can be convenient to use These drives are usually They are often larger They will have a larger disk inside Now. That actually brings up a couple of interesting characteristics that aren't One is what I call physical size, It doesn't really matter what I'll Is that power supply issue Usually those portable drives or two and usually the powered drives are that you might actually also Those determine the size. But other than that, unless you're taking a drive that was into an external drive, to worry about size just so that you The other one that a lot of people seem to spend a lot of time worrying Drives spin at different speeds. It's very common for portable drive The three and a half inch drives, the bigger ones will often go at 7200 And yes, it does mean that the drive I don't care not for a backup drive, not for a drive that's on the other If we were talking about a drive you are Great. But for a drive that's external and being used for backing up rotational speed is I will happily choose a slower drive if it's cheaper, the money on a faster drive unless So with all that out of the way, it's difficult at this point to then say, that drive because as you can imagine, the quality of manufacturers, As I'm recording this in September of drives that are listed in the article That article does periodically get updated so that the links there may be more up to So I strongly recommend These are again, just recommendations. They're kind of sort of drives that if I had to buy a drive today, So for an external portable drive, the Western Digital four Is it's a nice little drive? In fact, I do have a few They've been good for a little while. They are increasing in capacity. my oldest drives are half a terabyte, This is what I throw into my backpack when The drive that I've gotten And so you can imagine that has quality import than just something I might get for myself when I can deal Our Western Digital, my book, These range in capacity from something like four terabytes or three The 28 terabyte one is actually bigger. I think it has two drives in it, but these have proven to me to be A couple of my backup drives now downstairs cooked up to one of my Linux They are these drives I literally did buy an external drive Not that long ago, and it's different than It might be a little bit pricier, but I bought it because of my experience So what I'm literally using right now is a G technology six terabyte It's got a separate power supply. It's a fine external drive, and in fact, I've actually done live editing on it, across a USB three interface, It's still better to do it internally, In fact, I've also run virtual So that gives you some idea of the drives speed and resiliency in being able And that kind of work. The reason that I and when I say today the machine The drive is about a year and a half old. I had a prior experience where I got another G drive that I used It's a four terabyte drive. It's an external drive, but it's It served me really, really well as my true work drive when I was using So the manufacturer G drive actually got some good reputation, So when I decided I needed a second drive for this machine, that's what That's where my Mac room reflect nightly I need to close with something that is, in that opinions are You will find that there are people who will vehemently disagree There are various reasons for that. One of the problems in the disk industry specific is that it seems that this I mean, a manufacturer that's really good today may swap roles in two So if you're watching this two or three or the manufacturers that would honestly It's one of the reasons I point you that I'm able to keep up to date When I updated that article for this that the recommendations remain stable I'm hopeful that's good to happen for a That article on which this askleo.com/17616. You can also make Like I said for the updated Both positive and negative that I expect Hope that was helpful. I hope that gets you purchasing I'm Leo Notenboom this is askleo.com.