``Charcoal-grilled Restaurant Gyuoh'' Staff) Does the Oyakata(master) come often? Owner) Ever since he was a sumo wrestler Owner) We've known each other for over 20 years. Staff) It's very long Assorted appetizer Clerk) Homemade meatloaf and Clerk) Soft salami Clerk) Chicken ham Clerk) Smoked salmon Clerk) This is a crab sumo wrestlers) gottyanndesu(Let's eat.) Roga) It's delicious Staff) delicious? Nabatame) It's Calpas Nabatame) Ah, it's Calpas Oyakata) Oh, it's delicious, Gyuo's famous &quot;Tail Soup&quot; Roga) This is delicious Roga) I eat this every year. Roga) I eat this every year when I come to Kyushu for sumo. Roga) It's delicious. Roga) I really like this meat. Roga) very soft Roga) delicious. Staff) It looks delicious. Staff) Which part is it? Staff) tail? Roga) That's tail soup, Oyakata) Oh no, the camera came to me. Kyoda) It's delicious, Oyakata) Say something nice, Oyakata) Of course it's tail, but Oyakata) This clear color of the soup . Oyakata) Delicate flavor Oyakata) Tail... Oyakata) Delicate taste that you won't believe is soup stock made with meat Oyakata) Ha~ Muto poses at the end. Kyoda) It's delicious. Kyoda) Yeah, Nabatame) My mouth greets delicious food Nabatame) I'll pick you up from here. Staff) That's right. . Is that manners? Nabatame) This is how connoisseurs eat it Staff) Connoisseurs? Isn't it about manners? Nabatame) I'm a connoisseur Roga) It's absolutely delicious if you drink it when it's really cold. Nabatame) Even now... Roga) It's best to drink when you're cold. Nabatame) I agree Cooking Hamburger steak in the kitchen bake in an oven Staff) It's huge ~ Owner ) No, today it's the size for sumo wrestlers. Staff) Is it different from usual? Owner) Different Owner) It's twice the normal size Spinach for garnish Staff) what is this? Owner) This is a potato Staff) Potato Staff) It's so thin. Owner) This way you can eat it easily, so you can eat more. Owner) French fries give me heartburn Owner) Since you will be eating a lot of meat, it will be easier to eat the potatoes if they are light. corn herbal butter Clerk) Here you go ~ Oyakata) Hamburger steak Staff) Wow, it looks delicious, Roga) gottyanndesu(Let's eat.) Roga)It's delicious, Roga ) Hot Staff) Is the green one butter? Nabatame) This is avocado sauce Staff) Oh, that's right Nabatame) I don't know, Staff) Huh? Nabatame) what? Nabatame) I don't know. Roga) I don't want to see Nabatame eat an avocado. Roga) Nabatame's avocado I don't want to see is Staff) Please eat Nabatame) First, eat without adding anything. Staff)It's normal Nabatame) Oh, it's so hot. Nabatame) What is this... Nabatame) It's so juicy... Nabatame) Haa, it's amazing... Nabatame) It has a deep flavor... Nabatame is unsure about his impressions of the meal. Nabatame) That's what it's like Roga ) Definitely delicious compared to other restaurants Nabatame) Next is avocado sauce Staff) Is that really an avocado? Nabatame) What is this green thing? Clerk) what is it? Nabatame) Is the green one avocado sauce? Clerk) No, that's herb butter Staff) That's completely different, Oyakata) I don't understand why he thought it was an avocado. Clerk) The color is... Oyakata) His ideas are difficult to understand Nabatame) I eat it with herbal butter Nabatame) Adding herb butter gives it a more mature taste. Nabatame) It's best to eat something hot when it's hot. Namatame) hot food when it's hot Nabatame) It's served with herb butter. Nabatame) The green one is called herbal butter. Nabatame) Adding this gives it a meaty and juicy taste... Namatame) Mellow, acidic, salty, and salty... Nabatame) The combination... Nabatame) What can I say... Nabatame) In other words, this is what it means Nabatame) It's sweaty. Staff) you are not feeling well today Nabatame) don't say that Nabatame) When you say that, I feel even worse Kyoda) It's delicious. Roga) The texture is crispy Roga) and the garlic flavor is also Roga) The best combination Owner) This is a salad that deserves a winning star. Staff) Is it cheese? Owner) I don't usually do that though. Owner) I specially cooked it to wish them victory. Oyakata) a great Oyakata) How many stars are there? Roga) That's 5 pieces. Oyakata) So it's 5 wins and 10 losses. Owner) Let's give it a winning star. Roga) 10 wins and 5 losses. Salt plum pulp Owner) Plum! Staff) Is it plum pilaf? Owner) That's right. Owner) Plum pulp rice additional plum pulp Owner) White wine! Owner) Sumo wrestlers eat this easily Staff)flying fish roe? Oyakata) Oh, it smells so good. Oyakata) Plum pulp rice Oyakata) Wow. Oyakata) This is amazing Oyakata) I feel like waking up Oyakata)It's delicious though Oyakata)It's so sour. Oyakata)Good food when your stomach is weak Clerk) Refreshing plums go well when eating meat. Oyakata)This is... Oyakata)Alcohol or anything Oyakata)It will help you when your stomach is weak. Oyakata)Uho~ Oyakata)The amazing Staff) How many grams is this? Owner) This is 300 grams. The Oyakata is 500 grams. Staff) Wow! Staff) What is that? butter? Owner) This is garlic Season the giant fillet with salt, pepper, and garlic. butter Once baked, turn on the oven Finished with charcoal grilling Potato lemon and butter Oyakata 500g steak Clerk) Please grill it rare Staff) oyakata meat? Staff) Very rare Oyakata) Wow, Staff) So delicious ~ Nabatame) Delicious and happy Oyakata) It's delicious ~ Oyakata who imitates Nabatame's wink Staff) Everyone cuts everything first, Oyakata) That's right. Oyakata) Almost everyone doesn't eat first. Oyakata) Sumo wrestlers are very detailed. Oyakata) Oyakata is faster. Oyakata) Cut the meat first and then Oyakata) All that's left to do is eat Oyakata) Do the things that take time first Oyakata) then eat heartily Roga)wonderful Roga)delicious Roga)It's really delicious Roga)Is happy Roga)Is happy Roga)When I eat delicious food, I want to feed it to my mother. Staff) Does eating something delicious make you feel that way? Roga)Oh, do you have wine? Clerk) We have wine Oyakata) Do you have one? Nabatame) This makes me want to drink red wine. Oyakata)L give this to you Nabatame) Oh, it's delicious. Staff)It looks like the Oyakata's meat is almost never grilled. Staff) It's Very rare, Oyakata) Delicious restaurant meat is eaten half-raw. Staff) That's the only way to eat it Staff) The meat is a little hot. Oyakata) This meat is definitely half-cooked Oyakata) The meat is thoroughly heated to the center. Oyakata) It's amazing Technical Staff) I see. Staff) The chef was using the oven. Oyakata) I got drunk and got drunk. thank you Oyakata) Today especially Oyakata) Tenderness and Oyakata) The tenderness and flavor of the meat was amazing. Oyakata) It was really delicious Oyakata) If you cut it into large pieces and eat it with a gulp, Oyasaka) The flavor overflows from the meat and it's delicious. Oyakata) My mouth feels so happy Oyakata) When eaten in large size Oyakata) I get excited in my mouth Oyakata) My mouth says, ``It's delicious'' and ``The meat is here! It's here!'' Oyakata) The cells in your mouth are happy Nabatame) I want to make the inside of my mouth happy. Oyakata) The inside of my mouth is dancing, Oyakata) &quot;Wow, meat!&quot; Nabatame) It's dancing, Oyakata) &quot;Wow, it's a blissful time,&quot; said Oyakata) You know how it feels, right? Nabatame) I understand. Nabatame) The cells were happy. Nabatame) I can eat it. Nabatame) I can eat it all up Oyakata) What was my past life like? Nabatame) It's steak lol Oyakata) There's no way my past life was a steak. Oyakata) How much do you make fun of your Oyakata? Oyakata) I wonder what my past life was like... Oyakata) I thought it was a bear, but Oyakata) It looks surprisingly like a snake. The way it eats is Oyakata) I swallow it and eat it. Roga) I agree Oyakata) It's like a snake. Oyakata) Because it swallows it Oyakata) It's fun to swallow it and digest it in the stomach. Kyoda)I don't know. Oyakata) It can't be helped that I don't know Oyakata) It has a unique feeling . Oyakata) digest large items in the stomach Oyakata) digest slowly Oyakata) That makes me so happy Staff) amazing Staff) What is this? Owner) V Owner) V road on the road to victory Staff) Amazing Owner) Congratulations on your promotion Staff) Ah Staff) can't be in time Clerk) Congratulations! Owner) Congratulations on your promotion to makuuchi Roga) Thank you Owner) For you too. V Road Nabatame) It's V Road Owner) Everyone's V Road Roga) Thank you Owner) Congratulations Roga) Take a photo Oyakata) Oh, it's disappearing, it's disappearing, quickly Staff) Look here, look here Oyakata) Clerk Oyakata) Does this mean there are a lot of them? Oyakata) We're all going to share this and eat it, right? Owner) That's right, Oyakata) I was surprised that you said that to us too. Oyakata)If it was only one piece per person, I wouldn't be able to eat it all. Roga.) It's hot, Oyakata) hot Oyakata)Nabatame is smiling Nabatame) No, lol. No lol Staff) Are you kidding him? Oyakata) He thinks, &quot;I'm sure it's hot.&quot; Nabatame)What kind of food is this? Clerk) Baked ice cream Nabatame) Sweets? dessert? Oyakata) Grilled ice cream Roga) delicious Roga) it's delicious Roga)eat ice cream Roga) It's delicious Nabatame) This is delicious Staff) It's sweet, but it's delicious Nabatame) This is so good! Nabatame) It's sweets, Staff) It's sweets, Nabatame) It's sweet, Staff) Is it sweet? Nabatame) Sweets... Nabatame) No, it's not good. Today is Wednesday. Staff) Not today. Not at all. Nabatame) If you ask me if it's always good, it's not always the Staff) Well, Sumo wrestlers) gottyanndesita(Thank you for the meal)