This is the Sydney Opera House. In this video, I'd like to give you a tour of what's on the inside and This is one of the most well so let's check it out. (electricity zapping) (loud explosion) This video is sponsored by brilliant.org. (soft, quaint music) The Sydney Opera House that's very well known worldwide. Millions of people come It is a multi-venue They have concerts, plays, operas, movies, and some people even get married here. It's located in Sydney, Australia. Let's look at the globe. Here's the country of Australia, and this is the state of New South Wales. And right on the coast is Sydney. This is where you'll find The year 2023 marks the 50th and it's been recently renovated with numerous improvements This land has a rich history. For thousands of years, it's been inhabited by the Gadigal people, the traditional custodians of the land. This spot on the harbor It goes by a few different names, but today it's most commonly In the 1950s, they wanted to so they had an international More than 200 entries came The winner of the and he had a very unique Construction began in 1959 to complete, much longer This was mainly due to In 1966, disagreements led to Jorn Utzon actually and going back home which in the country of Denmark. The project was completed in 1973, and unfortunately, Utzon to see the finished building. A bit of a sad story, however, the Sydney Opera House if it weren't for him. The building is made up of It almost looks like a large The sails were difficult to construct. The story goes that Utzon from pieces of the same sphere. This would make manufacturing Each sail is made up of pieces that are covered with ceramic tiles. There are more than one Sometimes during celebrations projected onto the sides of the sails. Let's take a look at the This is the Sydney Harbour, which is also part of Port Jackson. And this is the Sydney Harbour Bridge, also a famous site to see. These waters will have plenty of boats entering and leaving Circular Quay. Right next to the Opera House underneath the water is This gives another way to cross the waters in addition to the Sydney Harbour Bridge. There is also a large underground car park that can hold over 1000 vehicles. This is usually where you'll park your car if you decide to drive to The Opera House has a Large deliveries will be taken down here. This is called the Loading Dock. Some areas around the building, this is the Western Broadwalk It's not as big, but there is also an This means you can walk all the way around the building if you want. (gentle upbeat music) The area in front is called the Forecourt. The main steps leading up to the building are called the Monumental Steps. During warmer parts of the year, these outdoor areas will also Underneath here is Portside Sydney. This is an outside restaurant with views straight out onto the harbor. This area here is called the Opera Bar. Place to eat, hang out, and enjoy amazing views of the harbor. The stairways lead down below ground, and you can see there's also Coming down the line is called the House Canteen. This area is called the Lower Concourse. If you take a tour of the Opera House, this is usually where it starts. This is the Welcome Centre or pick up a gift to remember your trip. The escalators will take you But first, let's take a step back here. The Sydney Opera House is made up of three separate structures: the Concert Hall, the and the Bennelong Restaurant. Let's first look inside This is a great place to It has some of the best in Sydney, Australia. Normally, you come into the restaurant through this entryway. We'll see how you get The Concert Hall is the largest venue. The Concert Hall can It has hosted famous from around the world. In the very back, you which has over 10,000 pipes. This is the largest mechanical Hanging above the stage are This was part of the recent This improves the sound back to the stage and to the audience. So that's the Concert The other one over here is formerly known as the Opera Theatre. The Joan Sutherland Theatre The stage houses events such The Orchestra Pit is down here, and this is the Stage. In the back, there is for getting props up to this level. It appears to be three separate buildings, but they are of course There's a couple of You can go up the Monumental Steps and in through these doors here, or you can go underneath here. This is called the Covered Concourse. Earlier in the video we so if you're down here, then up to the Covered Concourse. Then from here, you can This door is called the Stage Door. I imagine you have to be very important to enter through here. For the rest of us, you'll want to use one of these entrances. There will usually be security checkpoints before entering the building. This is the Box Office Foyer. You can hang out in the lounge here, or you can make your way to entering the restaurant Here's the Box Office to buy your tickets, the Gift Shop. and this is the Utzon Room, who we saw earlier in this video. This room can be used for The room can fit up to 200 people inside. From the Box Office Foyer, you can enter either of Let's start with the Concert Hall. This is the Concert Hall Southern Foyer. You can buy a snack or a drink here and make your way around At the other side is the Many fancy events have been hosted here. If you make your way down the stairs, there is also a fancy bar underneath. Now getting into the is very similar. Up the stairs or escalator there's walkways around either And there's another It's just a little bit smaller than the one in the Concert Hall. There's a lift or elevator here to allow access to each level. (bell dings) And another bar at the bottom. Now, I haven't shown this with animation, but I do wanna mention has gone to great lengths to ensure that the building is very accessible. There are plenty of lifts or those who can't take the stairs. The Sydney Opera House also has a lot more smaller venues inside. Let's first look underneath This is called the Western Foyer. There are doors here, but to enter, you'll have to go underneath Remember, we got into the Box Office Foyer from one of these entrances, you'll come into the Western Foyer. So we have three smaller venues here: the Drama Theatre, Studio, and Playhouse. The Drama Theatre can the perfect venue for This is the Studio, which has very flexible It can fit a maximum of 600 people inside. The Playhouse has seating for 398 people. There's another room here on the north end called the Centre for Creativity. It is a space for kids and have hands-on creative experiences. This opened in the year 2022. There's one more venue right below the Joan Sutherland Theatre. These are known as the Yallamundi Rooms, perfect for private gatherings The word Yallamundi means storyteller which again pays tribute There's obviously more that aren't generally for the public, plenty of offices, rehearsal and places for maintenance. So if you ever find yourself come see this beautiful If you've made it this far in the video, then you enjoy learning new things. Brilliant.org is the best way not just by watching, but We're not just memorizing formulas or putting facts in our head. Brilliant teaches you how to think. When you get started, they'll find your comfort level, and for where to start learning first. Brilliant has thousands of lessons on a wide range of topics. So we have math, science and they regularly have new courses with relevant topics for today. These are real world skills at home, work or at school. It's even good for busy schedules. Each lesson can be completed You can try Brilliant Go to brilliant.org/jaredowen, or click the link in The first 200 people will get 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription.