If you could witness time from the Big Bang stay with you the most? What would you still remember, even as space What meaning -- if any -- would you glean 'Rust and Humus' is a worldbuilding project cosmic dawn to life at the end of time. Created by the visionary artist and writer it is perhaps the most surreal exercise in Over the course of the project's one-hundred create life on barren worlds, mortals build born from dreams visit magician butterflies Yet in exploring this strange narrative, a and the cyclical nature of history emerges. So, for this entry into the archive, I'll end. And since nothing can prepare you for what At the dawn of time, an immense tree dances Its roots begin in the dark oceans that cover we know -- and its trunk stretches up to Fed by the light and warmth of the Sun, the darkness for an age longer than you or I could Until, after eons, the tree collapses under satellite orbiting the Earth alongside the The Tree leaves behind its base, which forms ocean. At the time of the Tree, space is populated to planet. Described as vestiges of forgotten civilizations can manipulate dream magic to kindle anew and give rise to the wind. When the tree breaks, the Moon is a deserted There, the cosmic wanderers, bored and brimming Using dreams, they create wide seas and lush of flowers and sweet fruits. By the time these wanderers depart, the moon wild... The wanderers leave behind a guardian, the Weary of observing the silent stars and growth move according to the course of the Sun and For eons, the Oracle and their creations are Yet time pushes ever forward, and several waters first flowed establish coastal cities The humanoid Elide, a sea faring people with civilizations in this age of the dawn. Using great ships, the Elide explore as they At this time, sea life like the great Scylla, seaweed, provide food for many civilizations. The centaur-like Faulk are the era's other dirigibles and building marbled cities that A group of astronomers and explorers, they For generations, the Moon prospers, and civilizations But this age of tranquility doesn't last. Abruptly, the sun cools down, and the lunar In this era of uncertainty, beings known as to take advantage of the ongoing agitation. Made of dust, the shapeshifters can take the With their ability to change shape, they infiltrate of livestock or trusted advisors. They manipulate and curse to settle their And so, an age of suspicion and distrust begins. During this period, from beyond the sea, dragons the isles to flee the cold weather, and raze In the face of so many catastrophes, civilizations nothing but ruins. The Green Moon turns white, covered in snow No cities remain on the Moon. The few life forms who still wander its perpetually who document things of the past. Created by the now elderly Oracle, the Moths the civilizations that rose and fell upon none but themselves to read them. And thus, the tale of the Moon comes to a Yet as a final shroud of snow covers the moon, beginning. A host of primordial archeo-animals lurk among forms, and growing steadily larger. From these humble roots, a story will play will far exceed the drama of the moon. In the blink of a cosmic eye, the archeo-animals Like the monsters that lurk in the corners clash in constant battles for dominance. Yet amongst these mindless brutes, the intelligent Made of identical clones, the Titans share leaving the somber depths of the ocean -- but Gathering together, from their collective to the Giants -- beings endowed with the in their stead. The first giants are Great Whales fated to The second are the Starry Giants who will Finally, the black Goutlhs stride over the the Titans in the depths. For the Titans are not long for this world. Exhausted by their great task, after birthing finally rest... But the Giants fulfill the dream of their from the sea and venturing onto the continent Whales exploring the sky, soaring through Finding the land all but barren, they decide and dying bugs into vast forests inhabited Largest among these are the Greater Earthworms, forest. Once their work is accomplished, the Giants roots, allowing their bodies to dissolve into Within these forests, the Giant Insects reach Despite the abundance of their newfound environment, daily clashes and squabbles they did when Yet at the end of each ferocious battle, the plants that will grow into large trees. One peaceful group of insects -- butterflies and learn the ways of magic. Using their power, they leave earth and traverse Some eventually stop upon the moon, visiting with Great Whales who flew too high during Back on Earth, as the forest spreads, a new In order to spread seeds more efficiently, Some of these plant-animals take on predatory And perhaps even more noteworthy, in other in the form of early proto-mammals. The descendants of the fish that left the abundant food supply of the forests, these all corners of the continent. The sole continent on the planet is already Yet the story of this land, now called Uhia, As eons pass, intelligent Reptiles come to the shelter of the woods. And opposing the Reptiles are the Birds, a their own sparse civilization on the continent Yet the rise and reign of these two nations of the world. For soon, temperatures drop across the continent, it can truly begin. In place of the birds and reptiles, an unlikely takes up the torch of civilization. Spreading over the continent, they form a cities. Skilled horticulturalist mechanics, the Ancients plant-machines to serve as laborers. Thanks to their vegetal work-force, the Ancient's As technology improves, the largest plant-machines power. Fabrication machines able to bring to materiality And in time, the Ancients use these machines Humans, created by the fabricator machines Hatched from mechanical eggs, they live and Yet as the Ancient's civilization reaches The ensuing war is long and terrible, remembered Despite their greater strength and better -- fail to react quickly enough to stop the In the inferno of war, the Ancient's civilization Humans survive the extinction of the Ancients once more to a low level of technological For centuries, the humans live in small nomadic In time, a city known as the Heart becomes Here, a group of humans rediscover the Ancient's These new machines, the Auto-Fabs, prove even emptiness than the previous ones. Thanks to this miracle, from the heart spreads city where humanity comes to find refuge. And so, the age of night terrors and legends The Labyrinth continues to spread, a maze who find their every need met. Running at the human's service, the city to fill plates, energy to power devices, and The inhabitants, risen to consume from birth Within the city, wild animals are a rarity. Their appearance and customs have evolved little more than pests scurrying at the feet And serving the humans are a mosaic of machines, needs. In a bitterly ironic cycle, the humans have the Ancients created them for the same intended Greatest of all the machines are the Auto-Fabs Partially organic, these living engines continue emptiness, and are kept under close supervision. And the Auto-Fabs are starting to show signs Outgrown buildings, containing disfigured increasingly common. Made of living tissue, these early deviations Yet other shapes are also forming in the labyrinth. Anguished faces appear in the walls, and shambling, A catastrophic shift is coming... The Auto-Fabs develop a mysterious sickness, The machines, likewise, cease functioning Chaos breaks out across the city as the Labyrinth The machines' scream of agony -- known walls to fall apart and districts to crumble. Human civilization has come to an end... The ashes of the city rain down for years. The Labyrinth becomes a cemetery of concrete. Yet over the coming centuries after the Cry, Small groups of human survivors live separated, mushrooms that proliferate among the ruins. Much of the continent of Uhia is now a polluted, rust. The remainders of humanity -- reduced once to congregate in settlements in the Southwestern Soon, the age of the machines seems like little Away from the humans, a few populations of old programing after the Cry rang. With breakdowns impossible to repair, rust The Cry also gave rise to odd occurrences. Deep within the Labyrinth, some districts may lose sight of their path in the ever-changing Strangest of all, the humans do not dwell In their torment, the machine's cry has warped for the appearances of novel lifeforms -- which The humans consider these unfamiliar beings the maze. Yet many of these new forms of life are in and threatening appearances. Along the margins of the inner sea, buildings water. Novel populations like the Whale People make iodine breeze and available housing. In time, the great Goutlhs, hidden under the the depths to explore the maze. Small groups move into buildings and sift curiosity... Eventually, the era of the Labyrinth also Mysterious Black Trees begin to pierce through When these trees come to maturity, they die corrodes the buildings and allows plants to Once a sufficient number of Black Trees die, The forest gradually engulfs the continent, No humans remain by this point, and the monsters corridors of the forest. Underneath the canopy, they live carefully trees. For this forest -- simply called 'The Humus' Interconnected by a web of roots, all trees single intelligence. Within the never-ending forest, one can only held by birds and tiny rodents. For the world is green and wild once more. The scars of the Labyrinth and the Cry fade And for another eternity, a garden blooms Yet as we hurtle towards the end of time, Eventually, the Humus slowly dissolves, the Once the last grove vanishes, a desert covers The desert left by the Humus is breached with roaming beings from the birthplace of dreams. In places, time has crystalized, forming shapes Abstract beings like Living Lines and The For time is no long grounded by the roots dreams, nothing can exist for more than a Yet the Humus, sensing that their time was Their egg, carefully wrapped in a cocoon of being. Here at the end of time, beyond rust and humus, For how long do they stay there, alone, surrounded beings that occasionally flicker into existence? We cannot say. For such things are not for us to know... In some respects, Rust and Humus is a story or is forgotten. But like a tool turning to rust, or dead leaves a new one emerges. Equal parts melancholy and hopeful, the saga to cover, and you can read the entire story If you found this narrative as fascinating Lucas Roussel, who is working on a massive more of this incredible universe. Once again, links are down below. And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your icon to stay up to date on all things Curious. See you in the next video.