Take a look at the Moments posted by Mr. Zheng. No? He didn't post on Moments today. He should have blocked you. He and Green Tea went on a date today. I'll send you a screenshot. Look, Lao Chen, you need to be calm and open-minded, and you want to live a decent life. I have to bring some green Yuchen. Thank you for accompanying me today. I am very happy. As long as you are happy, I can go up to the mountain of knives or to the sea of fire. There is something wrong with Yanxia. I don't know whether to say what's wrong. You gave me a Porsche. It seems that your husband found out. He was very angry and called me and scolded me. Programmer, you are looking for trouble, right? Do you know how much investment Green Tea has brought to the company ? As the boss of the company, I will reward him. What's wrong? Why do you call me and scold me? Hahahaha Ruolan , we have to learn from Mr. Ma in the future. This low-carbon travel is both safe and environmentally friendly. Hahaha, Mr. Ma. It's such a hot day. You can wear a mink and you won't mind the heat. You understand. Damn, this is called a trend. Recently, the team leader has researched a new game called Mai, Mai, Mai, Mai . Several companies are very optimistic about this game. I , hahaha. Wearing a mink and a bag, you are really a goat farting like a sheep. You are both fashionable and coquettish. Hahaha, Team Leader Cheng is still working overtime. You have been up for three days and there will be an open call for investment tomorrow. Let me take the test again. Game, please come back first and go. Minister Chen, sit down, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait , why are you here ? I heard that Team Leader Chen has developed a new game. Will it be sold ? I am very optimistic about this game. I will give 500 million to this game. If the company invests, I will give you 500 million and get 100. Mr. Ma, you are a nouveau riche. Do you know what investment is? I don't understand. It's fine if you two understand. No matter how much you give, I'm only 100 yuan more expensive than you . 100 yuan. Three bosses, can you let me finish 40 before leaving? Boss , no, no, no, boss, no, I can't hold it in. Today , you have to choose an investor, otherwise Won't let you in Why are you blocking people at the door of the toilet? Why are you three attacking together? Get out of the way first. Hey, old horse, we will definitely make a lot of money after the investment meeting tomorrow . Hey, it's crowded. I'm not interested in money. Hey, he even rushed in. Hahaha, he became Lao Chen . Old Chen, you have been detained for being a cuckold. Why are you in the mood to play games and eat here? What's going on? Your wife, Mr. Zheng, and Manager Lu are parking underground. Forget it. You can see for yourself. Why do you have to scold others? When did I call him to scold him ? I'll remind you again . He's the boss of the company If you keep telling me what to do, get out of here. Zheng Jianxia, I told you that I didn't scold him. You don't understand human language. Is it because you don't understand what your dog is? Are you not sure whether you scolded or scolded? Green Tea has invested tens of millions in the company . You It's okay. I just want to study your game . Why don't you better study your job when you're swearing? You've been busy all day at work. You haven't had a bite to eat yet. The first time you saw me, you covered your head with me and had a full meal. Yes, yes, yes, you knew that you would die if you skipped one meal. When did you become so pretentious? I 'm in love , let me tell you, tomorrow is the company's new game bidding meeting. It is a crucial time for the company to attract investment. If you dare to make excuses for me , see how I deal with you. In order to catch up with the progress, I cut my hair all night and squinted. What about you, my dear wife ? Another man, Qingqing, I even gave him a Porsche. Do you know that tomorrow's bidding will be the key to getting investment? Research and development of new games is your job. Besides, if it wasn't for the green tea, do you think anyone would be willing to invest in your crappy game? Not only are you wrong They are so grateful, but you still call and scold them. Okay, I understand. You are just jealous that they have a car to drive. My car will drive for you. What do you mean? You want a car. Who can I show your shame to? Who should I show it to? I am a clean person. I'm obsessed with things that others have touched. I find them dirty . You Yanxia, I've bought all your things. I'm waiting for you in the outdoor parking lot. Thank you for your hard work. I'll give you some green tea another day. Thank you. Don't you just want a new gift? I buy it every day. If you don't have much ability, you know how to compare with me. Show me an old man like you My father, I have been unlucky for eight lifetimes . Why are you always following me? Are you a grown man who doesn't mind your own business? Can you let me have some private space ? If I don't take the elevator after work, why should I jump from upstairs? That will kill me. Tell you no You want me to know that you are following me. As for the gift, I have already prepared it. Just go back and wait. Is the Porsche beautiful? You bought it for more than 10 million. Oh, I don't want Yanxia. You have to buy it for me. Who told you to drink ? Don't know Yanxiawen Is the smell of alcohol disgusting? Why do you want to be your husband? You are such a piece of trash and you don't find him disgusting even when he's around him. Programmer, you're too much. I do all this for work. I'm so weird. I'm so weird. You still have me, my wife, and this in your heart. Home? You ? Aren't you just jealous that I rewarded Green Tea with a Porsche? It doesn't matter, I bought it for you too. I bought you one too , okay. Hey, wife , I saw a green little King Kong with eyelashes . Hey, okay, okay, go home first. Go home and give it to whomever you like. I don't need to give you face, right? I 've already bought the car for you . What else do you want ? This Porsche is Richard's reward for investing in the company. You can do it if you want . Ah, you also make money for the company. You are nothing but pretending to be beautiful. These are what I should do. I don't want money or rewards , I just hope you can like him. He He has a good car to support the scene. What's wrong ? If it weren't for him, do you think the company has money to pay you a salary as a broken programmer? What's more, the company is now Money is tight. I just contributed money to buy you a car. What else are you dissatisfied with? You spent 10 million to buy him a Porsche and barely spent 40,000 to 50,000 for me. Do I still need to be grateful? Do you think Yanxia's money comes from the strong wind? Yeah, don't push yourself too far I do n't feel sorry for Cheng Xuyao at all. I've had enough. Even though I'm married to you , what right do you have to control me? The company is mine. You Look how sloppy you are . How can you deserve this? Come to me, then look at this other girl's tea. What are you comparing yourself to ? He's not worthy of me. Stop and have a quarrel. You've learned how to run away from home, right? Me, you, you've been like this all your life. You're a loser . Don't be angry with him. In this life, Mr. Chen came to me so late. What's the matter? Ms. Chen, I want to entrust you to help me deal with the matter of resigning in a while. Okay, I will come to the company to see you tomorrow. It's time to do the work. This is still Group Chen. Are you tall? This is too handsome. Sure enough, a man is better than a man because of his clothes. Team leader Chen is much more handsome than Manager Li when he is dressed like this. The government said that I provoked feelings between you and team leader Cheng. You gave him a car and he still yelled at you. Don't behave like this when you lose your temper I've long had enough of Mr. Zheng thinking about the difficulty of crossing the airport . Our new game bidding meeting will only lead to the life and death of the Huoshe Group. I am afraid that only Team Leader Cheng will come to personally accept Vice President Xue. The investor is interested in Mr. Zheng and his programmer. He 's just a game programmer. OK, I'll give him a call. That's all. Forget it, you still dare to go on strike today. Let's see how I deal with him . You don't have to wait until tomorrow. You still know how to come to work? Programmer, you've gone too far. I just said a few words to you . Are you going to go online like this? Also, you are like this Can you please stop imitating Green Tea? Your behavior of being a loyal teacher and a filial concubine is very childish. It's ridiculous, you know? Mr. Zheng, investor, is in the conference room. Should we talk about work first? What about your meeting materials and the news in the group? Have you read it? Today is the company's new product investment meeting. You will talk about it. If you can't impress the investors, it will lead to the company. You know the consequences of a rupture of capital flow , and you'd better not give it to me. Why did the chain fall ? Because Team Leader Cheng has no sense of presence in the company, I forgot to include him in the group. It doesn't matter. It's not important. I quit. Sign the formal resignation application . Resign . Who allowed you to be so important in the company? Wang Xuyuan, who resigned when you were not doing your job properly, forget about it as a political commissar. I've told you a few words . You 're too selfish when you see this invitation. Are you so small-minded? Think about the overall situation, okay ? I never expect you to be like green tea and shield me from the wind and rain when I'm in trouble. But at least don't delay. I'm on the back foot. What happened yesterday can be treated as if I was wrong, okay? Director Chen, please forgive me. You're right to calm down. This is a moment that concerns the life and death of the company. Even if it's for yourself, you can't be so irresponsible. What responsibility do I have ? The company is yours. Just come. You are the one who should be responsible. I always thought you were a woman. The soft-hearted man who eats is actually a rebellious person now, aren't you? Do you want to resign? Then get out of this useless company now. With or without you, Team Leader Cheng, why are you yelling at Mr. Zheng? If Mr. Zheng and I hadn't invested, you would have been waiting to drink the northwest wind. Well, I want to see how your company will fare if you leave me. Even if you leave your company, you can still make money. Deputy Xue Boss, we have arrived at the investment meeting . Can Team Leader Cheng participate? If Team Leader Cheng doesn't come in person, we won't invest the money. Why does he know the investors ? How is it possible who allowed you to resign ? Did I agree? Don't you, Mr. Zheng? Do you want to fire me? That will also happen in the future. Now is the time for the company to employ people. No one can leave at this time. Why did the investor comment on me? Team Leader Cheng. The investor is right. Maybe he thinks the game was designed by programmers and wants to know more about the game. Otherwise , how could he be an investor with his ability ? Team Leader Cheng, Mr. Zheng, just said that. You threaten him with resigning from your job after just a few words. Are you still a man? Ah, are you so petty? I never expect you to be as capable as Green Tea, but at least don't hold me back. This matter is related to the life and death of the company . You must know better about the games you develop, so I'm the investor . How can a low-income person be qualified to explain tourism to investors? Come on, don't you have dear Richard? Let him go. Do you think you can't make money if the company is gone? Mr. Zhou and I, Man , are familiar with this game, and I also know them in the investment field. You can go. Let's talk to them and go. I want to see who is willing to give it to you if they are not reliable. What time is the investment ? Why haven't you come yet? Mr. Lei, Mr. Li, Mr. Ma. Hey, you are finally here . Let's start. We are still waiting for your game to help us make money, right? Hey, this is Mr. Hey. Hello today. I will be the host. You must be Mr. Cheng's secretary, right? It's not me. I don't have such an interview since it's not you. What qualifications do you have to host today's investment meeting? Mr. Zheng, what's going on today? I hope you can give me a reasonable explanation. Several bosses are like this. The three bosses don't know that this game is actually planned by me. He is only a programmer. I'm just responsible for the execution . For Green Tea, I'm the chief planner. He knows many details better , so this time it is more appropriate for him to introduce them to you . Please rest assured that I will give you a wonderful explanation. Our game will be popular all over the country once it is launched. I have a question about this game myself. I also tried it but I couldn't pass the second level. Is the game too difficult to make users lose their patience ? What happened? Why did the power go out ? It's all good. Why did the power go out? My things haven't been saved yet. Hey, answer Mr. Li's question. The power outage just didn't block your mouth. This Green Tea Beach program Member green tea should be elegant and vulgar. Oh, come and tell him what you just said. I also said that I am not the chief planner of this game. Besides, I don't know many details. Let Green Tea explain it. Don't delay. Invest in Green Tea. You are not the chief planner. Why can't you answer such a simple question? I'm afraid it's not you, the planning director, who is a fake. Lucky for me , it's not you, the director, who is fake, right? Team Leader Chen, what do you mean? What I said sounded like farts. Did n't you hear the flies? You , as a public official? Can the employees of the company have a sense of responsibility ? I think he is a dead pig. He is not afraid of boiling water. Help me get these 3 investors. Let's see how he eats . I'm sorry for making you laugh . I can't answer this question. It's in my PPT. Real data, I believe this game must be a big hit. Please invest in it as a sub-list. Bosses , look at it, the sky is already dark. It's early, why do n't I treat you? Let's eat and chat while we sign the investment contract. Oh, Team Leader Cheng, oh, Xiao Cheng. Logically speaking, you are no longer qualified to participate. But considering that all the bosses need to take care of you, why don't you bring tea and water to me? I will show you mercy and let you take advantage of it . After all, you have been fired. Why did Mr. Cheng get fired? The job of serving tea and water is more suitable for gifts, so I won't go . But if Team Leader Cheng is not going, then there is no need for us to go. Programmer, do you know what the occasion is today? Give me a slap in the face. Don't think that you can fly to the branches and become a phoenix just by wearing a skin. You will always be a loser. Richard, the coward , has already given you the steps. You are still pushing back and forth. I think you are sincere and deliberately want to interfere with me and several investors. The cooperation of investors is blind. You are really blind. Do you know that there is no such thing? This game is controlled by me at every level from development to testing. Even if Richard counts, he will allocate me the first step. Just because he is you. Future boss, my future husband, programmer, I order you to apologize to Green Tea right now , otherwise I will divorce you and make you clean up and leave the house, okay, okay, okay, okay. Stop pretending, right? Let's show off . From now on, I'll walk my Yangguan Road and you cross my single-plank bridge . Mr. Lei, I, Mr. Ma, Mr. Li, have canceled the investment . I think you're dreaming in broad daylight and haven't woken up yet. Do you think you are? Who can make decisions for several investors ? You think you can beat the world by developing a crappy game . If the company hadn't allocated resources to you and you could research crappy projects, don't live in a dream. Do you really think that the investors invested in this project because of your face ? Otherwise, they didn't think of it because of my face. Could it be that they were just looking at your face and making fun of them? The bosses are interested in the company's products because they are manly. Don't put money on your own face about the future commercial value of this man . If you leave the company and this platform, you will be a useless programmer. Can you please stop making trouble? Do you really want us to laugh in front of investors? Just don't think you are awesome . If you are a small-minded person, if you were really powerful, he would have banned us in the industry. Well, since you want to be banned so much, then I will As you wish, inform all investors and partners who are cooperating with them, that is against my programmer, Mr. He Ming, what do you call him Mr. Cheng? What's the problem? Aren't you guys praising him too much? He is just a clerk, and he deserves to be called Mr. Cheng . Today I will let you see how much I can stir up as a clerk. Today I will put it out there as long as I don't let them invest . No one dares to invest in you . You really think you are a dishonest person. Even if a few investors give you face and call you Mr. Cheng, you shouldn't be so shameless as to climb up the ladder. Son, you are too lenient, right? What does it have to do with you whether I am high or not? Programmer, why are you so arrogant? You are just a trash from the bottom. After divorcing me , you will be beaten back to your original shape. Just because you still want to ban me. It's just a crazy dream. I know, don't you just want to scare him into not divorcing you ? It's settled, let's leave. Whoever regrets who is a dog, Ma Xiaoli, let's go , Mr. Zhang, even if it's just for this pretty boy's platform , Mr. Cheng will lead us to develop new games day and night in order to put them into the market so quickly. You are making a joke with all our hard work and livelihood. I can't stay in this company. What attitude do you have to talk to me like this? Don't put a high hat on programmers. I won't. Xin Company can't survive without him. Lin Xia, don't worry. There's nothing I can't do. As long as I'm here, you must let Mr. Lei invest. That's right . Wait until we get you to invest , then we will slowly settle the score with you while Mr. Lei and the others are here. I haven't gone far yet. I can still fight for it. Mr. Cao fucks him. What kind of brain does he have to let Mr. Lei drive the door for him personally ? Mr. Cheng, do you really want to leave Sanzhimai? What do you think if this matter spreads? If you go out to other companies to compete for your talents, you have to fight with each other. That's right, Mr. Cheng, we have been brothers for so many years. Give him face and come to our company to be the top leader. How about I give you an annual salary of 100 million plus share sharing ? I said, Old Ma , why are you robbing me of people? I have already agreed with Mr. Cheng that I am willing to give you another 50 million are. you OK, hahaha. This old boy , Mr. Cheng, is also considering me. What do you think about you? We'll talk about this later. Let's go first. Okay, Old Lei , why are you always going against me? How is it possible that he is just a programmer and can't get into the job? How could a coward on the table let investors pay so much money to win over him? Are they blind ? Yanxia, don't you understand? It must be a programmer secretly following him. They made a deal, you said he won't start a new business and sneak past us to sell our products? This is not theft of trade secrets. I want to sue him . I want to sue him until he steps on the sewing machine. It's you who are blind, okay? You are the only one who forced Mr. Cheng to leave this lousy company. Mr. Cheng doesn't even want to be treated like a chicken. Did you know that the programmer was suspicious a long time ago ? Or is it just the two of you? We designed a trap together to join forces to trick me Zhanxiang. You are really blinded by lard. For this smooth-talking green tea man, you use Mr. Cheng as a coolie. Do you know that Mr. Cheng is the world's top game developer ? To enable you to live a good life , to satisfy your emptiness Rong Xin works day and night every day, and you, while you are having sex with this green tea man, I despise suppressing Mr. Chen. I have never seen such disgusting bitches like you. You are such a bitch. I wish you a long life. Fuck me today. Just put your words here and leave the city manager for this lousy company of yours. It won't take more than two hours for the server to crash . Then there's no point in begging the gods. Hmm, just open your eyes and turn around. How dare I ? Oh, Mr. Ye Xialei's car. Zheng Yanxia, for so many years, as long as you put some thought into me, you will If you find that my divorce is not as simple as you thought, I will Let Lawyer Wang solve the problem for you. I hope you won't lose your solution. Otherwise, Wang Kuo is just a word from me. How dare a good programmer threaten me? How could I be blind in the first place? How dare I let Lei Lei marry such a wolf-hearted person? It really pisses me off that they canceled the investment. Thinking about this In fact, it's all my fault. I lost my sense of proportion and hurt the harmony between you and your wife. But that programmer is really like the saying goes: &quot;One day is a blessing for a couple, a hundred days is a blessing.&quot; How could he bear to do this to you? I don't blame you for this matter. You are doing it for the good of the company. You should blame me. I can only blame that wimp programmer if he hadn't I pitied him and brought him to the company to give him a bite of food. He had long since starved to death on the street. How could he have a chance to meet the investor Yanxia? Your kindness was exchanged for his betrayal . Didn't he threaten me with divorce ? I will help him get clean and leave the house. I want to see if he can live in Jiangcheng without me. What are you doing? Don't be angry. If you are angry, I will feel sorry for you. Who are you? Who let you in? Get out. Miss Cheng, hello. I was entrusted by Chenggong to help him handle the divorce. This divorce agreement. If you have no problem, then sign it . What's the matter with Yanxia? You loser wants to share half of my property with you Tell the programmer that he can get a divorce but must leave the house. As for my property, he can't take away a penny from it. Ms. Zheng has left the house. Mr. Cheng also agreed to sign it. This programmer is really an old sow wearing a bra one after another. She was tricked into knowing her face. In addition, Director Cheng asked me to give you a message. If you do too much unrighteousness, you will be killed. You will regret, I regret, I, Zheng Yanxia, will only climb higher if she leaves him , and if he leaves me, he will just be like a wild dog that left home, being cast aside by everyone. I regret it, and he regrets it. I didn't expect it. It's not good to be angry for this kind of person. Mr. Zhang , why did our company's server crash ? I'll put it down today. This is your broken company . If Mr. Cheng leaves, the server will crash in less than two hours. At that time, it will be useless to ask the gods. The server actually crashes. How could Vice President Xue know about Mr. Zhang in advance? Please think of a solution quickly. I'm so disappointed if we don't fix the server in time . All users will need refunds and our partners will also terminate their contracts with us. At that time, we will lose all our money. I need you to remind you that as the company's technical director, if something goes wrong, ask me what to do. You have time to follow me here. Why don't I talk nonsense and think about how to fix it ? It's not that we don't want to do it. What 's going on? I know you must have deliberately made things worse and then came out to turn the tide to prove your importance and ask Mr. Zheng to give you a salary increase, right? Green Tea, you green tea. Now everything seems to be full of swear words, isn't it Mr. Zheng? If we don't fix it , the process is too complicated. We can't repair it at all , so you hurry up and find foreign aid. Who repaired it before ? Just ask someone to repair it now. Didn't you fire them? How can we have the nerve to go to them ? Who did you say it wasn't? You didn't know it was Cheng. Mr. Cheng, why is it that only this trash can repair it? Complex program Yunxia, don't listen to him ask Mr. Yan how powerful our company's server is. You don't know how it is possible to crash just because you say it crashes. I think they must have joined forces to force you to invite the programmers back. You must not fall into their trap. Ah, what the hell are you talking about ? Our company's service is so bad. If it hadn't been for Mr. Cheng 's fault, I don't know how many times it would have collapsed. You 're such a speculative and wretched villain. Why are you calling me a brat ? I'm the best seller. The whole company relies on me to grow and develop. You're blind. Look at them. Attitude , you must give me all these rubbishes . It's not easy to find programmers with two legs . You don't have to be programmers with two legs. You are a social dog who relies on you. Who do you think you are? Why should you fire me ? I will tell you today. I have withdrawn. Although my My skills are not 1/10,000 of Mr. Cheng's, but I have been with Mr. Cheng for so long. When I leave this lousy company, I will always be a guest wherever I go. The company, you, the boss of Xinfang, and you, the villain in the office, will eventually collapse sooner or later. I will resign and I won't work anymore. You are the one who left this lousy company. Why don't we go buy a car and drive away ? I forgot to tell you that our company's broken server can be repaired by no one except Mr. Cheng . Mr. Cheng, you two are just waiting to report it. Get out of here . Your Highness, you must not let these people bully your body . I must have discussed it with the programmer before helping others. I deliberately tried to trip you up, but they resisted . I suspected that this was a server crash , so they deliberately messed up. It's better to get out now. It's just a good time to provoke this damn programmer again. He even buried me. I will never let him go . But There is no need to worry about where we can find someone to replace him in such a short period of time. I have already inquired about it. I heard that there is a top programmer named Fei Ying in the industry. As long as we ask him to do something, he will definitely be able to outperform the programmers by more than a dozen. Is it true? Then where can we find him? I know Yanxia , just leave it to me, Mr. Cheng, don't tell me that you developed it in this shabby Internet cafe and killed a fan . You are the god of all programmers, the famous Flying Eagle. How can you be wronged like this ? I'm afraid that Mr. Lei will make fun of me when I say it. I don't have my own computer for the time being. I wanted to buy one before , but I thought it would be a waste to buy another one when the company already has a computer, so I never bought one for me , so I had to come to the Internet cafe, so I had no choice but to buy one. Come to the Internet cafe and I will tell you, Mr. Cheng. What kind of life are you living ? Zheng Yanxia is so shameless. You work hard in the company and don't even buy a computer. On the one hand, she enjoys the profits in the company. On the other hand, you buy that pretty boy a sports car worth more than 10 million. I really don't know what you are like. How can you bear it until now? Mr. Cheng said, seriously, I will give you a salary of 100 million a year. You should consider going to my place. Also, we have been divorced for such a long time. Sooner or later, we have to have a second spring. My daughter is a standard white, rich and beautiful girl. Her first two I just returned to China in 2018. Let me introduce you to each other. Okay , Lao Lei, I treat you as a brother , but you want to be my father. Hahaha, that's not what I meant. I just want her to learn from you. Hahaha, Lao Lei, I'm telling you. To tell you the truth, I don't want to work for others anymore. I want to go it alone . That's right . You're an incompetent person regardless of your abilities . I promised that if you succeed , I have to be your first investor. And Mr. Li, right? You're interesting, you can't tell it, right? I remember You two are college classmates. Hey , if we can join him, we will definitely become bigger and stronger, and maybe we can renew our relationship. Hahaha , the older you get, the less money you make . Let's have a meal together after I finish adjusting this. OK, okay. I'll wait for you downstairs. What's this? It smells so bad. Is the cause of the disease you said reliable? Oh, Yanxia, don't worry. Masters always hide in the market. Isn't it the case of a top programmer in his industry? The server crashed. How can you solve it with just a few clicks of your fingers? Programmer , why are you everywhere? What is your relationship with Feiying? Do I need to tell you? Programmer, you shameless thing, are you here to take revenge on me after I kicked you out ? Programmer, I know you and Yan After Xia's divorce, she will inevitably have resentment in her heart, but you can't make fun of Ye Xia and the company. If you really want to make a living, come to me and I'll apologize to you. You can apologize to him no matter what. He deserves it. I'll tell you, Cheng Xu . Better don't stop me anymore It has had an immeasurable impact on the company's procedures. If you dare to stop me from finding Feiying again, be careful. I won't let you have a bite to eat. If you don't want to be banned by the entire industry, you 'd better be honest . I'm busy . Come pick me up from downstairs. First, we are divorced. I don't want to divorce you anymore. Second, don't dump your shit on me. I don't have shit like you. As for banning the whole industry, I want to see who can ban him and Fei Ying. What is the relationship ? Should he? It's Fei Ying, right? If he was Fei Ying, why would he be a small programmer in the company? He must want to bring down the company and find the Fei Ying first to program our programmers. What should we do with this bastard? We have no news about Fei Ying now. I will arrange for someone to go find him. Let me introduce you to Mr. Cheng. This is Zhu Lan, an old classmate I haven't seen for a long time. You are here too. Why don't you welcome me? Oh, I heard that you had a period in school. Mr. Chen was in our school. That's a man of the hour. I'll chase him. Do n't be kidding me. How could you, a rich lady, chase me for three years ? Not to mention that we didn't know each other at the time, so why didn't we look at you? The people chasing you at that time were lined up from the classroom to France, but in your eyes How can Zheng Yanxia, the only one here, care about the rest of us ? Unexpectedly, we, Mr. Cheng, are still in love. But he is finally getting over it now. Didn't you come to me just to talk about these things? Let's talk about business. I've developed something for you. Manig Man is very interested. I have decided to invest in you. How much are you going to invest ? The hundreds of billions in assets in the card are for your investment. Qianyu is really worthy of being Miss Li. She is so generous. I want to start my own business and don't want to rely on women to gain a foothold . What's wrong with this ? It can be regarded as relying on women to get the upper hand Well, I just invested some money in you, and I didn't want to support you. You relied on your own skills to get the project started. You hold 51% of the shares. I'm not Zheng Yanxia, I only hold 49%. But oh, don't have so much. But just think of it as me begging you, okay? Fortunately, if you vote for my man in business, you will definitely make a lot of money. I trust you unconditionally. There will be a cocktail party at our house tomorrow night . You can drive my car there. Your family is holding a cocktail party. Why should I go there? You are such a stupid head. Our family But the richest man in Jiangcheng gathered many celebrities in Jiangcheng. What a good publicity. The platform of the project. We are partners now. You want to discuss the project with me. It's my fault. I will perform well tomorrow. Congratulations, Mr. Cheng . Miss Li, I wish you all the best. I wish you all your wishes will come true. There is also Zheng Yanxia. Zheng Yanxia, are you still obsessed with your ex-wife? I just don't like being used for things that belong to me. I want to take them all away. Is there any news about Yuxia? Where is Fan Ying? I heard that he will attend the reception of the richest man Li Jia tomorrow night. I asked my connections to help us get the qualifications. I must get him this time. He really deserves to be the richest man. Let's do it. The reception was so grand . I heard that this time Li Jia not only invited many wealthy ladies but also many entrepreneurs. We can just take advantage of this time to make a good investment. Yuchen, thank you very much. If it weren't for you, I really don't know what to do. Like a programmer, you can't do anything and can only find trouble for me . Do n't be blind for you and me. I'm willing to do anything. This time I heard that Miss Li is coming too and I want to introduce a top programmer dad. Do you think he is Miss Li's exclusive car ? Why is he here so early ? How about we hurry over to greet him and leave a good impression on him? Cheng Xuan, this wimp, is really stalking and refusing to change his ways . He must be here. Those who pester you must not Ask him to come over and stop. Who do you think you are? Who asked you to follow the programmer? You are like a dog-skin plaster that you ca n't shake off. I cling to him and there is always urine without a mirror. Don't look at your own virtues. Don't think I don't know. That dirty feeling in your heart Do you think I will regret divorcing you because you rented a luxury car to support the scene ? Wishful programmer, if you want some face , don't keep pestering me. You rent a luxury car and put it in a golden pot, or do you think I will regret it? I don't want to hear your barking. How dare you scold us? You don't want to see whose territory you are on today. When Miss Li comes, you can only roll with your tail between your legs. Okay, when Miss Li comes, I want to see who is going to hold you. Taixue, you really don't have the slightest sense of propriety to come to this hotel. Both Yanxia and I have worked hard to get here, so you are already divorced. Don't keep pestering us. Who do you think you are? You have disgraced our Yanxia family. Get out of here and stop pushing me . I'll ask someone to drive you away Zheng Yanxia Since you are so stubborn , I will show you today how a person you have always looked down upon was won over by the entire industry in Jiangcheng. Just because you are right and because the person who picked me up is here, Miss Cheng. I'll pick you up. Ms. Cheng asked me to come. Pick you up. Come and pick him up. Yes, miss, I'll invite Mr. Cheng to come in. Who is your miss? Of course she is the daughter of the Li family. Miss Li Ruolan, don't talk nonsense to them, just lead the way. Okay, how can this be a loser? How did he get to be the head of the Li family? Lady's beauty I understand. Why can I see him everywhere? It must be him pretending to be Fei Ying to trick the eldest daughter of the Li family. This wimp is really a big deal , but this is also our chance. Think about it, we told the Li family about the programmer pretending to be Fei Ying . Not only can the eldest lady Revenge programmers can still win the favor of the Li family, won't our company become prosperous? Let's go back quickly and tell the eldest lady of the Li family. Congratulations to Mr. Cheng. We have Li Jia's support. Now it's almost certain that we will be the leader in the mobile game industry from now on, haha. Ha Lai, Your Highness , they are there , programmer, programmer, what kind of big-tailed wolf are you pretending to be? How dare you pretend to be a Filipino servant to deceive your eldest lady. I think you are really shameless and deserve to die . You won't mind, right? Yan and I Xia is all for your own good, you know how to cheat What will happen to the eldest lady of the Li family? You guys dare to slander the east of the city. I see you are you. You said I pretended to be a flying eagle to deceive Miss Li . I came up with evidence and carefully slapped the prince in the face. I ordered everyone to come and see. This person is a liar pretending to be a flying eagle. The Great Eagle wants to deceive the Li family Miss , let go, you don't want to run away, let him go, what are you doing, let him go, who are you, this beauty, I advise you not to meddle in your own business. This poor loser pretended to be Master Flying Eagle and wanted to deceive the eldest daughter of the Li family. Fortunately, I controlled her. Stay here or it will ruin the party. It's not good to make the eldest daughter of the Li family unhappy. You said the eldest daughter of the Li family will be angry. How come I didn't know that he was deceiving the eldest daughter of the Li family ? How did you know that you don't even know who the eldest daughter of the Li family is ? Are you clamoring for confidence with me? Hahaha Zheng Yanxia You are so hopelessly stupid. This is the eldest daughter of the Li family, Li Ruolan. Hahaha , you are the eldest daughter of the Li family. This programmer is a liar. After being kicked out by Yanxia, he went to an Internet cafe to pretend to be some kind of flying eagle god. Fortunately, we know It's true that he is a dog in wolf's clothing . You are the programmer's ex-wife, Zheng Yanxia. She is indeed blind. You, Ms. Li, we will help you see through the liar. If you don't thank us, that's all . You 're so rude, it seems you've arrived I haven't opened my eyes yet. I don't know how to cherish the protection of a programmer, but I cheated on him. You said you are not blind. You also said that the programmer pretended to be a flying eagle. Do you think I am blind like you? Well, today I will open your eyes See how outstanding the man who once belonged to you is . Please introduce your product to everyone. Next, I will show you my newly developed game program. You can scan the screen first. Use the QR code to experience the garbage that has been eliminated by our company and still want to sell it to others. It's really shameless. I like it very much. Playing this game, I believe everyone here will also like it. Try it . What a fucking crappy game. It's so funny and it's so popular. You can't get on the market just like your game. This crappy game has aroused your anger and Everyone is already addicted to the game. I have passed the level. How can I pass the level if I am so good ? With my intelligence, I can play it all. I've played it dozens of times and I'm still stuck on the third level . The game you designed is so fun . Of course, because I'm the number one game designer in the world of Eagle. What 's impossible ? You must be trying to defeat me. Stop making excuses. The final debugging result of this game is that I watched Mr. Cheng complete it. One of you is blind and the other is green tea. It's a perfect match . You can take a look. Next time, you have been addicted to this system for half an hour . Oh my god, you can't feel the time passing so fast. It is indeed a game developed by Feiying . What did you do when you couldn't pass the level? I forwarded the link to my friends and colleagues like this Only then can I continue and replay it. Yes, yes, I recommended it to all my seven aunts and eight aunts. This game will definitely sell out. I, Wang Duoyu, voted for this project, and I, I, and I also voted, I also voted, I also voted, I also voted, you are so blind, this is the slap in the face I give you , hum. I stayed anonymous for this Zheng Yanxia for several years , but in exchange for her and Green Tea, she cuckolded me. My boss also removed me from the company. From now on, any company that cooperates with Three Meows will have a hard time with me Feiying . Everything will be decided by Mr. Cheng. Arrange for the three cats to completely ban Qu Yuan in Jiangcheng from now on. Qu Yuan, Qu Yuan, I beg you , I beg you, forgive me. I really know I was wrong . I beg you, don't ban me . It's considered that I have seen through it. It's useless to say more. Xueyuan, I beg you. Please forgive me. I will die without you . I don't want to see these two dirty things . Snowfield, Snowfield, Snowfield, put me in a picture.