2019 PSLE Math Question Answered! Hi everyone! This is the 2019 PSLE Math Question that stumped many Singaporean primary school kids. Given the figure, how do we find diameter of one of the semicircles with the given info? If you are curious to know, watch on to learn how to solve this question in less than 5 minutes! After going through this Practicle Math video, don't forget to try out the Geometry Math questions on our website to see how well you have mastered the skills you'll need. Ready to solve the question? Let's read this Math problem sum question together first. The figure consists of 5 identical semi circles arranged as shown. Looks like there is only one shape involved and that's a semi circle. We have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 of them and all of them are the same in size. That's good news to us! What are we supposed to solve for in this question? Find the diameter of one of the semicircles. Remember what's the diameter of a circle? It's the line that cuts a circle equally into half, correct? Looking at the semicircles that we are given, can you find the diameters of the semicircles? Looks like we have 5 of them and since all the semi circles are the same, This means that we can find any one of them to get the answer we need. But the question is, how do we go about doing that? Well, here's the important thing that all of you must know. Whenever we are solving Geometry Math questions, We must always learn to think in terms of the shapes involved and how we can move the shapes around to simplify the question. In this case, we are dealing with semicircles and the semicircles can be moved in a few ways, for example, they can be moved from left to right, from top to bottom or rotated around. However, because we are looking for the diameter, which happens to be a length, moving the semi circles up and down isn't really helpful to us nor does rotating them, correct? But, if we were to move the semicircles left or right, there seems to be a relationship between what we are given and the diameter of the semicircle. Let's see what it is, ok? We are going to focus on 2 of the semicircles for awhile and you'll learn the secret behind unlocking this 2019 PSLE Math question, alright? What we are going to do is to move the semicircles left and right and see what's the relationship between the way we move the shapes and the diameter of the semicircle. Let's start by pulling it to one side first. Do you see what I think you saw? Let's pull the semicircles to the other side to confirm if you are right. So what did you learn just now? Did you say that whenever we move one of the semi circles to one side, the distance of the gaps on both sides are the same? If you did, great observation! Let's see this in action again, ok? See how this works? Whenever we move one of the semicircle to one side, the distance of this length here is equal to this length here. So far so good? If you understand this, we're ready to solve this challenging PSLE Math question now! What we are going to do now, is to use our imagination and move the semicircles to the left and right. Let's start with the semi circle on the left. See the gap of 12 cm here? We are going to move this semicircle so that it closes the gap. Well done! To close the gap of 12 cm, we'll need to move this semicircle 12 cm to the right, correct? Previously, we know that this entire length Since we moved the semicircle 12 cm to the right, this would mean that this distance here is also 12 cm. Following so far? Now let's make use of that to find the length of the yellow line over here and we can do that by taking 22 - 12 cm. This gives us 10 cm. Now, some of you might be wondering, why would we want to do that? Well, let's focus at this 2 semi circles for the time being. Well, do you see 2 familiar semi circles here? We are going to make use of what we learnt earlier on, ok? Remember that what we said about moving semi circles? When we move one of the semicircle to one side, the distance of the gaps on both sides will be the same. In other words, the length of this gap and this gap is the same. So if this gap is 10 cm, this must also be 10 cm. So far so good? If you understood that, we are going to look at the entire figure again. Looks like we have filled in this missing Good job, people! Tracing the diameter of the circle, we have 10 cm here, 16 cm here but what about this missing part over here? If you could see that these 2 semicircles you'll know that this part here must be But if you can't, don't' worry! Let's help you see why this is true by pushing this semicircle to the left ! This looks exactly like what we did on the Now let's get rid of the confusing numbers and see what we have for the diameter of the semicircle in the middle, ok? Do you know how to find the diameter of the All we need to do to find the answer is to add the lengths we know. So 10 cm + 16 cm + 10 cm gives us a total of 36 cm and that's our answer. The diameter of one of the semicircle is 36 cm. Problem solved! We hope you have enjoyed this Practicle math video. If you don't want to miss future Math videos like this, don't forget to subscribe to this channel and turn on the notification bell beside it. Thank you for watching! Till next time, happy problem solving!