They're one of the most mysterious Einstein's theory of relativity, they of the 20th century. Today not only do we able to see the first actual photograph synchronized networks of telescopes holes are mysterious because they are peek inside one of these things and come Black holes are like the Las Vegas of black hole stays inside a black hole. Yet formation of our galaxy, but to our universe itself. Although we can't see Let's take a trip there because what you rethink reality itself. What would go dark? Or would you find yourself in - fantastical trip inside a black hole is first let's define what a black hole is. like a planet or a star. There's really curved space-time. It's a region in space theoretical infinitely small point, so effectively disappears from our universe. singularity. This is much like a hole in anything that enters the event horizon. of our equations, or notions of reality does it mean when we talk about about the size of a black hole, we're event horizon. This is like a sphere dark because light and no other form of something called Hawking radiation which horizon, but that's subject for another of a waterfall beyond which space speed of light. The radius of an event And it's defined by this equation. equations, that anything with a mass can mass was compressed enough. If you marble about one and a half centimeters Similarly, if you compress the Sun to a it would become a black hole. What ascertained to some degree by general singularity, the hole in space-time, is competing theory Loop Quantum Gravity, exists. Something even more fantastical there right now by taking a video this we have to choose the black hole the same. Ironically the more massive a the less dangerous it is from the body apart. This is because the Schwarzschild radius doubles as the mass doubles, according to the equation. But if the volume increases eight times. So the event horizon gets larger. Very large of our Milky Way, called Sagittarius A* of water. Ao if you want to go inside a bigger. If the black hole had only a mass torn apart or spaghettified long before gravity would be so large that if you pulled much harder than your head. You A*'s event horizon before tidal the singularity. We will use NASA's Sagittarius A*. It will take us three speed of light. When we arrive, we see that its event in diameter, which is about 17 times the simplicity, we will presume that uncharged black hole. This is also called curious member of our crew team, Adam has while the rest of us watch from a safe is made of a futuristic material that is radiation. As Adam gets closer to the up then something strange happens, he to get redder and fainter, until he there, but the light reflecting off of invisible even to our infrared cameras. that allowed us to view Adam that close be completely stationary. This is because perspective of the ship, time stops time dilation as defined by Einstein's gravity gets stronger relative to So Adam stays completely stationary of the enterprise. From Adams perspective, moving faster and faster close to the horizon. We're also going to presume that you're seeing now are not artists' renderings based on calculations by dr. Colorado, who generously agreed to let us realistic available anywhere. The event far faster than he expected, as the event horizons. Space is so distorted outside universe. Space-time curves more the black hole. His lines of sight from severely, but Adam sees nothing beyond As he peers back, all the light reaching In fact, as he gets closer to the event visible to him before, is now in the visible before, is blue shifted to for his indestructible suit, he would radiation. Since Adam is experiencing horizon, would he be able to see the just before he enters the event horizon? unless he had a very powerful rocket over the event horizon. Then he could as a small dot of light, directly and bright that he would not be able to how is it possible the people on the moving and doing just fine from his things about reality that Einstein's perspectives are correct. There is no see Adam crossing the event horizon. Yet he's moving just fine and about to go are equal? This is because the laws of remains on the outside of the event violate one of the fundamental never be lost. On the other hand, that relative to Adam, nothing is he goes straight on through the event enters a different universe when he is entirely possible, because the event firewall that keeps two different universes, apart. Let's get back to Adam horizon. But not much changes him. The visible. And he can also see some parts him as well. but he can never actually see the singularity, No light is headed away from it, towards faster-than-light flow of space-time but was outside the event horizon. He though. He still has a sense of upness every direction feels downward. Even Space-time is bent so drastically literally nowhere to go tries to fire his rockets to go back up entered, he will actually be accelerating becomes space inside the black hole. Like space is always moving inside the event possibilities move toward the future for singularity inside the event horizon. And singularity? He'll be ripped to shreds. He fundamental particles that will get become one with the singularity. At least happen to Adam. Is there any way that it or not, there are two theoretical survive, if of course his space suit was black hole is a charged black hole this math would be similar to a spinning believed to be. In this case, the one-dimensional ring. And this spinning centrifugal force, that space near it instead of attractive. And the spinning that is a wormhole, or an Einstein-Rosen you would see an infinitely bright point outside universe reflected by the catapulted out and through a white hole. hole reversed in time. Nothing goes in. Everything comes out. this would mean that if Adam's catapulted to another universe. And in Quantum Gravity is correct, which is a there would be no singularity in the very similar to the rotating black hole, bright light. Adam would be transported See my video and loop quantum gravity if theory is. Now all the scenarios I they realistic, because these simulations amount of matter and light that is What would a trip inside a black hole we're in luck because Dr. Hamilton also realistic trip inside a black hole that here is what the computer simulations Sagittarius A*, the four million our galaxy. Here's what it would look Notice that nothing special happens as point of no return. The tidal forces here you could make it through here just fine. event horizon. Notice how the outside shifted. As you go inside the inner here unlike the Reisner nordstrom black &quot;mass inflation instability&quot; instantly rips any caused by the tremendous energy and positive energy and outgoing negative that has fallen inside the black hole. intense in fact that it would instantly The inner event horizon. And as in the become one with the singularity. This be pretty painless. How long does it take? about 16 seconds, so not much time quantum becomes a dominant force at the quantum describing the singularity as a point or really a three dimensional boundary notions of reality are gone. And some takes over. What quantum gravity is is Just about anything can happen as far as holes may reveal to us is that there is whom you ask. It seems to be observer equations may lead us to an relative, but reality itself may be Arvin Ash here. If you like our videos, then consider subscribing. And ring the bell so that you can be informed when we upload more fascinating videos. We'll see you in the next video.