You know that old laptop you have lying around nobody would buy it if you tried to sell it, same time? What if I told you that you could not only using it for all sorts of tasks, no matter Want a personal media server to host movies You got it. Want network storage for your whole house? That too. Want a VPN to your home network? You're not gonna believe this... I'm Chris Kalos, I like computers, and today Home Server, a home server with the ESSENTIALS Huge thanks to ISL Online for sponsoring this Control remote machines with ease for your ISL Light is an affordable and feature-rich within the space, especially for enterprise. Connect to unlimited machines securely with Linux, Android, and iOS. Wake your remote machines with wake-on-LAN, with a user-friendly interface. On top of all that, ISL Light has RDP support All that, without breaking the bank. We've tested ISL Light ourselves, and we've It's the kind of program you set up and No matter how your business is set up, ISL Start your free trial now and get 15 days All features included, no credit card required. "Home server this, home server that, why I'm not a developer who needs external computing to bother trying to install one of those fancy spend money on a new computer just to have You're right. Home server videos have gotten so complicated I love watching videos about extravagant setups, for the task, but the creators that make those can't even dream of doing. At the same time, paradoxically, I do have It's this! A 2009 IBM ThinkPad with a Core 2 Duo, that And yet it's actually useful, and it's First of all, let's begin with the very The minimum requirement is that it needs to That's it. We recommend more than 2 GB of RAM, but it's Back up any data that you may have on it, and install Ubuntu Server LTS on it without wasting precious resources trying to render Also, it's highly recommended that you keep and that you disable the function that puts Check the description for pointers on how Ubuntu Server LTS is arguably the most well-supported We also tried Fedora Server and Debian for wasn't as well-supported by the packages defaults were completely insane. There is only one little quirk of Ubuntu Server which is to uncheck "Set up this drive as your drive. If you were to leave that checked, it would not use all of it, and you would have to manually the process. You cold also set up Ubuntu Pro if you'd and it has extra features, but it doesn't Now that we've installed Ubuntu Server, There's a guide in the description for you want. We're going to be covering a few utilities Jellyfin for a media server, Wireguard as those two from anywhere, and lastly, as a remotely access your machines from anywhere. Perhaps using ISL Light, the sponsor of this However, before you do any of that, there's that's to reserve the **local** IP address settings. That way, the IP is always going to stay the so that we can set up some utilities with There isn't one guide that encompasses many do some Googling for this one, I'm sorry. The result we want is that your home server Now that you've reserved that address, note From now on, we will be accessing your soon-to-be Open a Terminal on your main computer and set on your server, an @ sign, and the IP You'll then be asked for the password you You won't see the password, so just input This will be the main way you'll be interacting Now let's get to the good part, and set Samba is a free and open-source implementation network devices to be seamlessly connected It's not limited to Windows, however, as to Samba servers, and macOS can even use one This means you can use the extra storage space on your desktop! Depending on your local network speed, it or program from it. To install this, run `sudo apt install samba` Once that's done, we'll create a directory also where we'll place our files for the For this video, I'll create this directory Then, we're going to have to change the run into any issues using Samba or Jellyfin We're going to run `sudo chown $USER: /media/myfiles` all the programs you're running can access Next up, we need to edit the Samba configuration Run `sudo nano /etc/samba/smb.conf` to start Use the arrow keys to find the line that says to say "map to guest = never". This will avoid connection issues in the case on your client. At the end of the file, add the following description. You can change the path and the title according Then, press Ctrl-X to tell Nano to exit, press file, and press Enter for the file name to Lastly, run `sudo smbpasswd -a &lt;youruser`&gt; This will be the password you'll use on storage. Now, run `sudo systemctl restart smbd` to through. Now, on your Windows PC, you can right-click drive. Input two backslashes followed by the IP of "Browse" and seeing if your files are You now have network storage! You can see how much space is left on your you can access it from any device, even a On the Mac, you can connect to it by opening and clicking Connect to Server, where you and click Connect. Now how about we populate that network storage and shows database of [wink] legally acquired Jellyfin is a free and open-source media manager, be accessed either from the web or through Chromecast, and even some other smart TVs. It detects metadata for movies, shows, and UI that anyone can easily use. I've taught my mom how to use this, so it's Setting it up is as easy as running a single | sudo bash`. After you run this, open a browser and go to it, as Jellyfin runs on port 8096 by default, Since we made the folder /media/myfiles, we're "shows" folder within that, so that we able to add our movies and shows through our Let's point Jellyfin's Movies directory to /media/myfiles/shows. Now you can throw some videos in there and in your network. And if you keep watching, you'll be able hit that like button if you're starting Dale. Have you ever wanted a guard? For your wires, perhaps? Me neither. I don't even know what that's supposed But thankfully, Wireguard is just the name. Wireguard is a free and open-source virtual create a VPN to your home network so you can where you're connecting from. The term VPN has been diluted by marketing it actually means anymore. It doesn't have anything to do with inherent It's just a way to route traffic from one traffic is coming from Network A instead of newly set up home server, and Network B can We're setting this up so that you can tell where your server is located, so that you Now that we're past introductions, let's This process is a bit more involved than the you. Firstly, we're going to set up Dynamic DNS. This will be a domain, or a web address, that home network. Chances are, you don't have a Static IP so it's going to change periodically. Dynamic DNS will ensure your network will we can set up a VPN with it. We recommend DuckDNS for this purpose. It's free, permanent, and quite user friendly. Shoot them a donation if you'd like, they're Sign into DuckDNS.org, I signed up with Google, Next, head to the "install" section and Ubuntu Server supports crontab. There are other ways to do this, but this Select the domain you just created and simply instructions. You'll have it set up in no-time, and we can set up Wireguard. Go into your router settings and forward port There are links in the description to help with it once again because I don't know for every one of them. Now that we've forwarded the appropriate home server to install Wireguard and set it The PiVPN utility is meant to be used on Raspberry running Ubuntu, we can run it no problem. Run the command `curl -L https://install.pivpn.io as shown on the screen. Don't worry about the DHCP stuff in the in your router settings earlier. Leave the port as the default value, port You can select any DNS provider you want, After this step is the important part - make the IP address that shows up. Here, we're going to input the DuckDNS address We also recommend enabling unattended upgrades, Once you've rebooted your machine after add` and give a name to our client. It can be anything you want, really. Next, run `pivpn -qr`, and a large QR code Now go on your phone or whatever other device Add your configuration by scanning in the You should call him... It's been a while. From this point on, you can turn on the toggle and route all your traffic through there. If you can see that both "Data Sent" and works. This means you can use something like Swiftfin As an added bonus, we can create a second your local network's IP addresses through This way, you can enjoy the benefits of your every time you want to do something on it, your normal connection instead of the VPN. Scan the same QR code as before, but give I prefer something like "Local Only". Then, edit this configuration in this way: In the "Allowed Addresses" section, replace address range, and add /24 at the end. For example, my local network addresses start `192.168.68.0/24`. Then, if you're on an iPhone, scroll down Cellular and Wi-Fi, and under the Wi-Fi section, its name) so that this configuration doesn't Now, you can keep this configuration open as if it's a part of the internet! If you have an Android device, you can also want. The hardest part is now behind us, soldiers. Now it's time to awaken your trusty steed Remotely! With wake-on-LAN. The way this works is: your computer's Ethernet off. If it detects a so-called "magic packet" its current state, whether it's powered At least, that's what's gonna happen if it. Most desktops do, and some enterprise-grade Sometimes, it might only wake your computer Also, Ethernet on your home server and your this step, unless you have a device with Connected To set this up, you need to enable the Wake-on-LAN wake up. Go into your UEFI or BIOS settings, and look wake," honestly manufacturers name things Just look around, I trust you. If you can't find anything, it's either Assuming you've now enabled the feature on Windows and go to Network Adapters. Find your Ethernet adapter, typically Realtek Double click it, go into the "Power Management" the computer" and "Only allow a magic Now's the time to find your Mac Address. No, not the YouTube channel. Your computer's MAC address. To do that, right click the network icon in that comes up that says "Network and Internet Go to your Ethernet connection's properties, We're done on the Windows machine front. Connect back to your server, and run `sudo Once it's installed, run `ip a` and take using. Whichever one says "UP" and has the IP Don't get confused by `wg0`, that's Wireguard, Now, we're going to set up some Siri Shortcuts You can also do this on Android with something you. Make a new shortcut, and add a "Run script Input this command `etherwake -i &lt;your interface&gt; with the data you have from before. Where it says "host" you input your server's so that SSH can connect to it. Your shortcut is now complete, and you can The power of awakening is now bestowed upon Use it wisely, child, for it is no mere mortal And hey, if you want to control your machine to watch our video on remote desktop software! We have now successfully set up The $0 Home This humble old laptop, which used to be e-waste a media server, *and* network storage for Any computer on the network can mount network Jellyfin allows this server to host movies and that's thanks to Wireguard acting as Lastly, if you're away and you want to wake it quite literally at the click of a button, And that's not even scratching the surface There's endless possibilities, so if you're Computers so you don't miss any future videos. We hope you've found this video useful, Thank you for watching! I'm Chris Kalos, I like computers, and I'll