ROGER MARTIN: This thing for a long, long time. People would plan they're going to engage in. More recently, has been a People have put those two something strategic planning. Unfortunately, those things and planning. So just putting them strategic planning doesn't help. What most strategic planning has nothing to do with strategy. It's got the word, but it's not. It's a set of activities says it's going to do. We're going to improve We're going to open We're going to start a new A whole list of them, but the results of going to make the company didn't have a strategy. [MUSIC PLAYING] So what's a strategy? A strategy is an that positions you on a playing that you win. So there's a theory. Strategy has a theory. Here's why we should be not this other one, and here's we're going to be at serving the customers That theory has to be coherent. It has to be doable. You have to be able to translate to be a great strategy. Planning does not have to and it typically is what the few things they want, and the marketing people and the talent people that tends to be a list that and no specification is going to accomplish some goal for the company. See, planning is Plans typically have to do going to spend. So we're going to build a plan. We're going to hire some people. We're going to Those are all things that are Who controls your costs? Who's the customer The answer is, you are. You decide how many how many raw materials to Those are more comfortable A strategy, on the other a competitive outcome which involves customers enough that they to make the profitability The tricky thing about that is You might wish you They decide, not you. That's a harder trick. So that means putting here's what we We can't prove it in advance, but this is what we and that we believe will happen. It's much easier to say, I will hire more than I will have customers end than those of competitors. The tricky thing about planning chances are at is figuring out how to win. When US air carriers were busily and da-da-da, there in Texas called Southwest that And at first, that because it was tiny. What Southwest Airlines was What they wanted to for Greyhound, a way to get around at a price that greater than a Greyhound bus. Southwest said, everybody They have hubs, and We're going to fly point to aircraft waiting on the ground when you're in the air. We're going to only fly so that our gates our systems are set up our simulations are set up. We're not going to offer because we're going to We're not going to book We're going to encourage because that's less and more convenient. So their strategy ended up cost than any of the that they could offer Because it had a got bigger and then bigger and and bigger and bigger flies the most passenger The major carriers to win against one another. They were all playing They were playing to more planes, get more not having a theory of than our competitors. And that was fine until here's a way to be else for this segment. And so that segment then goes. It's gone [FAST-MOVING SOUND]. And the main playing have to share a left over after Southwest [MUSIC PLAYING] If you're trying to escape this trap of doing something good for you, how do you start? The most important is that strategy will have It'll make you feel somewhat chances are you've been that you can prove in advance. You can't prove in advance that You can look at a plan and are doable. Let's just do those because But they won't add up to much. In strategy, you have is right about what we can do this will position us Just accept the fact that and you can't know for sure. And that is not That is being a great giving your organization the The second thing I the logic of your What would have to be true about about competition, about to work? Why do you do that? It's because you can then And if something that you would have to be is not working out it'll allow you to And strategy is a want to have as a mechanism it, and refining it so it go along. Another thing that is not letting it It's great if you can write Here's where we're Here's how we're Here are the capabilities Here are the management systems. And that's why it's going this aspiration that we have. Then you lay out be true for that all to Go do it, and watch and That may feel somewhat more than planning, but I would that's a way to If you do strategy, it gives of winning.