Who do you think cries more kids Adults. Let's have a vote. Okay. Can you say adult adults? Charlie. Kids. Kids. Babies. Babies. Juniper. For the contrarian. Okay. Throwing in baby Mateo. it would have to be both, because, like, parents cry Yeah, and then kids cry Okay. Okay. I see. shit. Be babies. Fake damn babies. We started off going after adults. Mostly like babies. Your mom said you couldn't say what of them. Damn. that. damn, Damn. damn. And okay, I won't say it either, then. Yeah. Yeah. So I. When I'm saying it, I'm the thing they built in a river That's a dam. That's a dam. This is what now with Trevor Noah. And so for today's episode, with you about children, but not like children and not children No, this is one of the because I don't think anybody even though some people say And it's like kids, parents And the reason I say people often talk about parenting. I mean, you know this better than anyone Like, everyone's like, this is a good This is what you should parent, But I always think to myself, like kid, like kid up. Being a kid is really weird you have priorities, You have, And then there's this other human being who basically tells you Have you, like, my favorite thing? Have you ever seen, like, a little small Like, just like a box, A cardboard box. And they're folding it, then they squash it, and they move it around Then they take things out of it. Then they drag it around the room. Then You're like, Yeah, we've got to go, And the kid is like, I'm working. Have you ever seen the kid's face? Yeah. The kid always has a look like, And it's funny how I always think myself. It's funny how as as adults, Yeah, but I often think, what if we were Dear sirs and M&amp;Ms. To whom it may concern, Imagine if while you were doing that, then like lifted you up from your chair And you'd be like, So are you like, I've got to do And that's how it must feel for them. Yeah, definitely. You don't know, but it's time to go. Yeah. When do you think you became a mum? Like. Like became a mum. Mom. I was always someone's mother. I have three little sisters. No, I'm sure there is. I've because. Okay. Because I know you remember that. Yeah. I knew you before you were mum. You've always been caring, responsible, And I want to know when you became a mum. definitely. When I took O.B. home from the hospital. And I exclusively, exclusively breastfed, because I always talk about policy. And then I was like, I'm this child's I was like. Like his nutrition depends on me. And that was like, It was just so stressful. But I just remember just waking up and I'm He'd like to sleep. He's And that was I was just like. I mean, I was thinking than, like, I felt like a woman in a cave, you know? I mean, yeah. And that. That was like the shift. And now my headspace is so much of my kids I've. You know what I never considered, though, yet like, in a weird way, with a man, obviously But I'm saying to you, you are actually Yeah. Yeah. Like if I had a, like, a bad cheeseburger, it doesn't affect me. I mean, it's a it's a it's like if you that affects your child in a way. It's like, yeah, it's like as a dad, You can't crack. my God. As long as you blow the child may not even know Yeah, a fully normal because how many people think Because you think everything is normal. Because your frame of reference for everything is so small But like, my dad would get excited, like a milestone thing, the only time that we're like, Right. Right now is when I'm dad and like And so I went up to my dad He's like sorts. I hops up and he goes and he leaves the room, runs And then grabs some string and ties in my tooth and ties But he's not talking to me. So he's not he's not leaving. And he's like, be still. And then grunts and door and everything. And then he looks at me and he nods as This man So the noise slams the door, So it's just too much string. So we just watch the door slam and I was like, a string So I think he was like, Ah, oof! Okay, let me. And then he went to the bathroom now, because now I know what, that I didn't know what the thing was supposed to be, but I put it together So that he's like, I watch the water bath. And then he helped me get my tooth out. But I was just like, in my mind, and he knows what he's doing And then I, I just trust it And I'm like, maybe he doesn't have plans. Like, maybe that's one of the Yeah. Is when you for the first time think that your parent doesn't It's the falling out. The way you figure that out my God. That's very early. That's that. You all did as well. Yeah, I think that means you didn't know. I didn't I? I saw my parents as people I think I really deify them. I was like, They weren't perfect parents. Yeah, they were always like mum and dad. And then as I came into adulthood, that people and maybe therapy wouldn't How old do you think you were these are people They just always had it together. No, but I'm saying, Were you all teens? Were you in your. it was in my early twenties. In your twenties, I remember the not even the first time. This is one of the many times This wasn't her fault, by the way, we're in the car. We're coming back from a church service 10 minutes from the house. But it's like been an hour drive and I'll never forget I can, like, You know, it's a long, dark road So we're crossing over, right? So normally you'd wait for oncoming There's there's nothing. We see a car in the distance. We're approaching the intersection. We see a car in the distance. I'm looking out the passenger I see the other car. It has its indicator on its blinker. So it's going to turn into the slip road Essentially, it means it's going to go Right. But I see that it's coming straight. My mum clearly is like looking I see it's coming straight. I see it's coming straight and I'm and I was like, And I just sat there quietly And then I sat there and I braced myself and then it just wham, took off And like, in an accident, Like, your car's spinning around and, And then we came to a stop Really. We were really lucky. And then when when we were all, like, calm I said to my mum was like, I saw that. And she's like, You saw what it was like. I saw that car was going to hit us. And she said, Why? She's like, Why didn't you say anything? I was like, Because you know how to drive. I don't know how to drive. And she's like, But you know how to see. You know how to see, my God, no, to see. She's like, You must say something. But that was like the final one because Yeah, I had seen my mum forget things. I had seen my mom like so from maybe like five or six, I was like, okay, this is a human being who's in charge, but they don't always like have that, I even saw with teachers. I remember when I was little, Because I thought I. And But I was like, no, I'm, I'm, you know, But I was like, I have more brain power. I figured that out. I think my parents were just Yes. Yeah. But they were just very But then, you know, when you look you have those moments. You're like, Yeah, I was talking to Esther Perel like traumas and childhoods And it's really amazing how there will always be the lack that was created. And as a kid, there will always be. So there are some people because their parents They could do whatever they wanted they never felt like there was structure But then there are some people in therapy they gave me a rigid schedule and I had to be home at a certain time. And it made me wonder. I was like, Is there a single kid out there and if your kid thinks it's going well, I don't know. I feel like it's a it's It's like like you have the kid and you are taking So I'm not a killer. Right? Right. And then you're playing craps, and the dice are going to bounce They're going to bounce. And you could call some of the bouncing trauma, you get them, you get the numbers. And then when you look at the thing, good parent or like, crap, crap. But sometimes I'm like, you know, Because, you know, like, just, you this thing arrives in your life born This way, as Lady Gaga I don't mean it. Like I hear every parent say, I don't know. No, no, you're right. Yeah, they just. And you're like, you just like this. Like, I can try and pull you away from it. And this is good in the bad. Yeah, just stuff encoded in you and like, And there's some parents but the kid just turns out badly. And then there's people who don't do that much and the kid Pretty well. And so I don't get I think you can, like, like make sure there's no hunger. But then after that, you just. Yeah, but I'm saying, okay, so this is We're speaking as former kids, I think childhood Like when I don't just take advice Because everyone has had the experience Yes. Yes. Yeah. And I think that it's valuable I only care about You're not a mom. So I'm like, So you don't think someone That's what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, this is a different episode. Every now and again. I like to get up to some mischief Christiane and in this case, yes, I wrote a children's book. It's something I've always wanted to do because I love children's books And I still read them, by the way. I think they're like the best books. And the other ones have too many words I wrote a children's book let's talk about kids, Let's talk to them. So I sat down with a group of kids By the way, They're the real We're going to continue this conversation right after this short break. Spanish, what are we starting the podcast When you see my daddy in my squad, just like you coming in, I was just asking you questions know. Welcome to the podcast. Welcome, Nola Welcome. Eden Welcome. Matteo Welcome. Juniper Welcome, Charlie and welcome. Cana Let's let's start with with you. Eden. How, how long have you been a child For seven, seven years. Wow. That's like a real professional. How long do you plan to be like a child? Do you have like, a long term I like that. I like that. So, like, My first instinct was talk to you because, like, how a child sees their relationship and the internal monologues they have, and I think every child does. But then I was like, Like I got a full panel of children And can I tell you, these little things are pretty genius. They came in with some insights. They came in with some ideas. And Josh and Christina, I know And I was shocked at how much like Does this make sense? Yeah. Like, you'll be shocked at how many kids Yeah, about everything. So I talk to kids, I go, Hey, do you know And they're like, What does a living mean? Actually, let me let's talk about jobs. Let's talk about jobs. Wait, wait, So, Charlie, No, no, I'm just kidding. Glad that she being Google. No, you just get just got hot. And then you were like, all right, I want to know about jobs. So we're going to go down the line. So. So let's go. No. Nola, do you know do you know what parents do at jobs? Do you know what adults do? What's this what we're doing now? Yeah. So you think they, like, Yeah. And then talk about life? Yeah. okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Ian, what do you think? People do a job and this saying sorry. Just because my mom is a scientist, Like, It's so she stands so you guys know teachers? Yeah. Yeah. okay. Mateo, I know my dad. You know, like people Yeah. Yeah, that's what my dad does. dope. He's one of those guys. I've seen those people at airports. You would see, like, the kids. Like, for instance, if I say, like, The majority of them and then mimed typing, Okay, So let me ask you, what do you think adults do at work, I'm. What is that doing? Boring stuff Typing like. Yeah, none of them were like, You know what I mean? It's like everyone had like, yeah, You know, it's like, were like, in a chicken coop for humans Yeah, it really was like, that's what. And I was like, Wow. Like, I don't know, like, what did you think of your parents Because we get to an age where it starts to sort of consolidate Yeah. What did you think of your parents? Like you were like, Like what did you think of your mom? I mean, I, I it's tough because I the things I thought about my mom I still think about my mom in in a Like, I see how she isn't always the most patient in life, but she's very patient with people And so so then I'm I look at my mom this infallible version of generosity And now as an adult, I look at her as this very fallible version So it's like none of the and all the qualities that she possesses, the right interpretation of them like world experienced understand So like, I remember there was somebody my mom gave someone a ride and all I could think in my head was like, because we did. And then because you tell me and then you picked Yeah. To give a ride somewhere is still to this day my mom is very like Watch your stuff, all the stuff like that. But then there will be these moments I don't know, I guess supersedes almost every lesson You know, I don't think anyone will But it's weird that if something is a hard job, wouldn't it mean that, like, Yeah. so bending. But then we see the defensiveness of My parenting or what you tell my child, what that means about me, And so then we we end up in this place where your entire childhood is the extent of your Yeah. And if no one else is allowed in village isn't welcome. If all of a sudden the villages don't tell my child about literally I've watched it in stores and somebody that works at the It's like, No, talk to me. Don't talk to my child. It's like, Well, to tell your child to stop. So that was a while. And so I think that that all of my I'm like growing up was because I was, that would let another adult Yeah. I mean, because my mom would let's say and like, just some old woman don't run with your shoes on time, She would look at that woman, say, I mean, as opposed to, like, I got this. You know, I mean, and I think that I got it's a small thing, but I think going from because I remember and I was actually thinking about it today Like they used to be these grandmas Sister Barbara, sister Kathy, Mommy IGA These women looked after me So I was surrounded by like aunties weren't genetically related to me, Yes, but felt they had a stake in my life. And my son has less of that like my husband's family is in New York. A lot of my family's in London, But this isn't just specific to people apart from their families I just you talk about your aunt a lot. It's like, And because now it's just become you or your spouse maybe a nanny, like it's very nanny's Is the daycare worker. You become really defensive fails, it's an indictment on you Whereas like I grew up in a culture where it was a community shame. Do you know? okay, okay. And every like, just like, like you bear It wasn't just like it was just like Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The collective has such community. It was, you know, an ethnic community, and if there was a celebration If someone's getting married, our child is getting married, And I think a lot of that defensiveness But I'm the only one doing this. Yes, exactly. What if, when my child misbehaves, It doesn't feel like we have failed. And there's something to collective that kind of takes the pressure off, Yeah, I've been trying to figure this out, Trying to understand why grown ups don't seem to understand kids. Okay, I need you. Like, what do you think it is? Okay, No less physical or less employed. And kids are fun. So kids have fun Yeah. You think that's why they can't figure Yeah. Is the sitter loud? If you let it get chocolate, And then that is boring that you're right. Fun Chocolate is fun. Kena, Like, what do you think? Or what do you wish adults understood more about the life of a child I feel like especially parents I feel like there's two types of adults. There's like parents, and then people I feel like sometimes they like me so they don't like live in the moment So like everything right now in Like, you can't be out late. You have to like, there's so many rules so they don't live in the moment. And I feel like adults without kids way more to show because I guess But I wish like adults in general and just be like, And like, they figured it out I mean, some of those things but person like mostly So I think they I wish they could just understand to like, let me be responsible for myself because So when I'm sitting down with the kids for this episode, felt like they were being held ability or inability to cater to their You know, young people process the world Yeah, they were like, Yeah, these people are like that tired. Like, they're always like, they don't like, chill and And unanimously kids were like, I'm just all the kids. All the kids were all the kids All the kids like none of the kids I think my parent is like, They're not doing a good job of. Yeah, but they all were like, Man, But I wonder, like when you were a kid, did you feel like your parent Did your parents get you or That's really interesting question. so the first thing I will say very intelligent, very astute man, and he would always debate with me. yeah, we're like intellectual sparring I can't take it any more. Like, but I would be I always remember like, and it would be my also my, But I would speak to obviously that men. But I was a child and I would I was a real like contrarian And they would just go at it with me. And I think my dad saw I had something even though he always came in So he's so he's holding I And then we like debate from there. And he's still like, you're wrong. And then but it's like and in hindsight, I think especially My dad has four daughters, are valued less, but like he never saw me If I probably the problem was he And that's why I'm like, this way. It was just like he that sparring man. I went, I went out into the world. I was like, I know my ideas have value, I felt very misunderstood. But my mom told me a story recently. She said that But through the perspective of my dad, I do exams, I had a piano exam and my dad and he went home and told my mom. He was like, The gal puts he saw it and it scared him Why is this piano exam Have some mistakes, how they were raising me, by the way. But like, he came home and he was like, that kind of scared me because, like, correct it. No, he was just like, go be intense. But, you know, so and sometimes that you're like, Yeah, but maybe, you know, You know, it was just like, And sometimes now I'm thinking, it's it's just that they didn't have the tools They were not that time that were like, That is probably a little abnormal. Maybe we should get her some help. And that's actually just back to what I know I'm not enough I do not contain but I may be able to push yeah, Yeah. I wouldn't be a stay at home mother. I know I'd be doing them a disservice You compensating for the village, I don't have enough. I can't. Yes. Yeah. And so that would be like the village Yes, yes, yes, exactly. And so now I'm so. And I think if more parents, when I'm actually not enough, Because, Trevor, You give me parenting is you guys well, he needs to be driving. yeah, we're about to lose. I was like, He was like, What? Yeah. And then I spoke through your logic and I was like, I mean, but it takes a humility who has no kids, Yeah, I have, And I think if more parents what do you think, Josh? Trevor It'd be good for our kids, It's is also got to be very difficult. I know that I am not a parent, at least as was been described to me experience of like having the kid and you seeing parts of yourself So I understand that whatever, whether you want to call it problem or deficiency whether it's a behavior thing And so that I understand But I think that like to what example is a lot of the fighters got into trouble in school for fighting, Yeah, they just want to fight on the way. Hey, let's fight like that. And so, you know, in this way that could have so easily Instead of being like, No, my son's not going be a fighter. Like you might say, and you clearly like wrestling Yeah, Why don't we And now all of a sudden there's like, not only not a problem, So he has one thing and I know this is You can say that But I do believe my imagination And therefore it could be. I don't think and I know this is a I don't think there is anything It's just we have not created the space Do you know what I mean? Like anything like to your point, You go a kid. Your kid is like always, And to your point, not malicious we're not normal teenagers Now, take that child, and all of a sudden Now they are a quote unquote fighter. And it's correct, But now you have given them a do Or When I was young, which parents I can understand because It is terrible. Yeah. Unless you put me in an electronics And now I'm like, you know, assembling All of a sudden you thought your purpose And now you're looking at parts and you experiment again. And I know it's a broad statement because I think most things genuinely, most, most, If you get to the roots of what And that's what I mean by, you know, to borrow the phrase like, It's like, yeah, Kids are not trying to do They're not trying They just like the curious Don't go anywhere because we got more. What now? After this. Okay. Can I sit down? Yes, I'm on the floor. So that's going to make you comfortable. Sit on the floor Anyway, now, right? Life has been ruined. So, I mean, this is Whatever you do, you do something. You do something crazy. Okay, okay. But then we can't see you. You can't see no, I mean, but the So now you, like, just gone. This can. But I guess if you sort of like when they were asked about how do you if you could change Yeah. What would you do? I don't know. I just. You expect them to be like, more popcorn dessert for breakfast? And then they had very adult responses. So I. I have, like, a really important And this is about the world. If you could change anything So kind of what would you change? World hunger. wow. Okay. Because I feel like that's Like, but like, and then they'll be happy because if everyone's hungry, then like, You know, you say that You find a lot of wars are fought and like, I don't know about you, So end world hunger. Okay, Charlie, I think I would like change. Make it so that everyone's full. But also, like, and we wouldn't necessarily but just like a place to stay I love this. Okay. Okay. So end world hunger Jennifer, what would you do? I think that, like, you know, in, like, Monopoly or, You know, how, like, you start I think that everybody should be able at least they can choose They can choose how it is. But there's so many people who like, work they just don't it's like hard. It's too hard. So I think that everybody should at least and they can choose but at least they should be able Like, like, but I feel like that's Is it is. You're not wrong. So like in life, so they can stop playing the game Okay. Is a game. Yes. There's no way to win it. But you can survive. damn. That's deep. Wow. Not damn river. That's deep. Wow, River that's deep. I'm so glad you brought that up, Even though I didn't know I was proud of what they were saying. But I was sad. I was really, really sad because I was. I was hoping for just crazy. Yeah. I mean, I was hoping for, you know, And we did get like one But it's almost like and then we could get to. All right, the world is made of candy And then last but definitely not least, the world's cheese? More cheese. my God. What kind of cheese? Hard cheese. Soft cheese, socks, cheddar cheese. Cheddar. Just more cheese. Cheddar. But what would you do with the extra Eat it. All of it. Yeah. Do you think do you think that there's not Half. You know, when No laws like free cheese. But it's only because I said it and all. You can't repeat anything. But I was just like, Do we pause and think to ourselves what it says about our society you know, six years old to like eight, their number. When you say, They say, man, I think I would give people sleep on the streets and I would and I would give people and I'm like, You know, you're not living in like a just like a child's world, Yeah. And it was also I don't know, loud, is that there are no such things It's just that, like, kids get more I can actually buy into that idea. And I Why are we even doing this thing? Yeah. And sometimes we look at that Yeah. And the money thing, you can be like, But every once in a while And it's a question that, like sometimes finally ends up in Yeah, why are we even doing this thing? And so it's like people But I think there's a real amount of perspective Yeah, definitely. You're just not. You're not you're almost like, Yeah, I told you, like even even into my late teens, maybe even my most astute perspectives, well read or anything yet I was just like, You you now have this thing of like, I'm imagining and I'm also going I think that that's like that's with their answers being like very worldly if you could stay in a way, that you are now, then I know It's like that's actually the sort of that change the world. Yeah, because, because eventually stuck in the mud Okay, let's, And you're like, I just got this house. Josh, you sound like me. I mean, you joined like a neighborhood Cristiana no. On WhatsApp. no. yeah. that's what half life comes at you fast Become a NIMBY hand. And now it's time for a new segment Creativity Over Christiana You probably drink more coffee I couldn't live without it. Honestly, as a mother, it's funny. I like coffee for the communal side. It's like the standing around, you know, thinking of ideas, What are some of the ideas for the show? Like, I mean, look on the show, the idea of having kids By the way, like six kids sitting together on But it was actually great, like a fun idea, chatting to kids, And I don't know, I think ideas like that when you're sort of in like a flow state, Coffee puts me in the flow. really? Yeah. I start my day with Cobra. I love Cobra, also I love that. I absolutely love that. You know, that's how I met my husband. No ways. Yes, I'm joking. He did me on Twitter. I was like, I see. You're in L.A., too. We should meet for coffee. And I was like, Guy wanted to ask me out for coffee, And he seemed interested. And here we are. He brought you in without children? I'm not even. Okay, well, but hopefully you're inspired, with some creative ideas or a marriage. It's a great day for coffee. It's a great day for Starbucks. That wasn't It was it wasn't like that. I was there I was this machine. I am always everybody. Is this true? Is this true? It is true, Yeah. That was then the 1700s. Yeah, my dad was there, And I don't know if this is much of an African thing So I just wanted to ask, which by the way, It is very much it's the same thing. It's Sorry to cut you off. No, that's one of my favorite things is how much I Yeah. I feel like I feel. And, I mean, we don't want to go so we're not going to go there. Yeah, like, literally, when you talk about When you buy your parents, I'm like, Like, Yeah, but, well, basically there's that I wonder, Because I've been told by a lot of people I have a He passed away before I was born. And so it's not as if I could have been But so many people in my life have told me And it's almost like his spirit, And I'm wondering who you get So My parents are hyper Christian, okay? So they've moved away from the region, Igbo culture, like, There's like names that signify One of my close friend. Her name is Yolanda, and is normally a name to somebody And then the child that was I think Iyabo is the other name So I do like the lore of the culture So my parents never said that about me. However, Obi is so much like my father. There's things he does that scares me. Like the other day he was walking through the supermarket during the old man walk I was like, And I had to take a picture. I was like, What? And then he there's a way he sits And like, of course, he's around my dad. They speak on face time all the time. But like the actual. Yeah, mannerisms, mannerisms. And I was like, I gave birth to my father. Yeah. Especially if there's something Like, there's nothing. But he just was like, walking around like, And I, I took a picture, and I, like my dad was like, he said something about Gladys And he was just we're just talking about, because so I just say my son very much, and I see my father, but myself, So I was always told, that to me about my grandfather. They would say, like they would And you know, And this terrified me because we found out my grandfather was bipolar So I was like, you don't understand I've seen where I'm like, Are you sure? Sure. And they're like, you know, I was like, But but yeah, I had that They go like you. You just seemed like a flash They go, you know, you like to walk. And I didn't spend a lot of time his. And, you know, the the, and the way you you get you causing chaos It's like we're watching it happen again. And what mesmerized people was the fact Like I spent all my time with You know, we were like completely It's just, traits from my dad, And ironically, again, And these are like personality things It's not like a child Yeah, yeah. Mom's just like, So it is it is fascinating to see that you know, a passed down slash a you know. Yeah. Which I like. I don't know. So before we, before we go. So before we go, there's that I, that I really need your help What do you think adults struggle Like what do you wish Okay. So I think that like adults sometimes don't understand, like kids feelings and like the way that like popularity at school Like, my mom was just like, read it. And I was like, no. And like in other things, too, like, I didn't get into something And then they were like, Go read a book. And I was like, like parents are also. It can be very understanding. But other times, like even as early and then the next morning it feels like Okay, so if I'm hearing to live in a world trying to understand because maybe for them, and they like they sort of but then kids might still Yeah. I think that was that was probably my these kids was it made me that kids are a lot And if we used that as a resource, I don't even mean this in like a mere man You could like, build a better world. But even as a parent, kids can tell you things about yourself It's amazing how they will. In the same way funding of animal trade, like dog trainers, will tell you There's only a bad owner. I think kids tell you who you are. Yeah, Whether you like it or not. They'll just tell you. I wonder how many parents ask their kids. Hey, what do you think I could work on? What do you think I could spend Where do you see my feelings? Like, what do you. You know, because you're a parent. My. Your job is to raise this child, and yet you never ask the child how they think you're doing. Which To me, sounds like a crazy. We should bring end of year reviews. We should like to be parents. Your kids. So what did I do? Well, this year. Yeah. What do you think I do? Well, yeah. Yeah. It's hard. I don't even want to know And I think they would surprise you. Yeah, I think you'd be surprised at how lenient children are in Yeah, I think parents take for granted things and kids see in the world And if you if you ask them like I know until I was like maybe ten, My mom wanted to be with my mom. It's like you ask a question like that, It's like. It's literally like, But the way that, like, a child wants what's best for you It's like earth shattering, Just even kids that aren't my kids, How have you been in like, a child says they miss you is like what you were thinking about. Yes. Well, you know what week it is. Yeah. Like this is just the summer, It's like. It's like if we gave them a chance, I would encourage It's just like, try it. Just go sit with your kid and be like, Hey, do you think we could improve And and don't get me wrong, one of the suggestions is going to be more There's always going to be ice cream. So I think asking Yeah, that could be world changing. Yeah, we should do it. Well, this was fun. This is going to make kids. Josh, I'm good because this is the thing. No, no, no. Let's go do it. We're going to go make kids. Because it seems easy to me. It seems easy raising them seems easy. Understanding them. We're going to do it. We're going to do it. People listening. I didn't say we are going to do it. You heard it here first. Josh and Trevor I don't know why this office. Blah, blah, blah, blah. No offense. All right. Well, thank you so much, Hannah. Thank you for coming, Nola. Thank you for coming. Gina But thanks for coming. Matteo Eden Thank you so much for coming. I will make sure to tell the adults and let's try to change the world. Thank you, everybody. JENNY Nice job, everyone. We we think Bobby And What Now with Trevor Noah is produced by Spotify Studios in partnership with Day The show is executive produced by Trevor Again, Claire Slaughter is our producer. Music Special thanks to all of our kids experts for helping to make this episode My new book, wherever you get your books Thank you so much for listening. Join us next Thursday