One single scientist created that accidentally caused the deaths including himself. Not only that, they decreased the all around the world, increased crime rates, and caused two completely that we are still dealing with today. Part of this video is More about them at the end of the show. In 1944, as a young chemist Master's, Clair Patterson went building the first His job was to concentrate uranium-235, from the much more common And this required huge machines, mass the two types of uranium by After the war, Patterson went PhD, he picked a research advantage of his experience measuring the age of the Radioactive rocks are Uranium-238, for example, decays into and then 12 More decays until The rate of this measured. It takes four and a a sample of U-238. to decay Patterson's PhD project was to determine the the ratio of uranium to lead but to calibrate his instrument, first ages were known. Zircon is ideal for this purpose, because when it forms it uranium but absolutely no So any lead that you later find inside a zircon, of a uranium decay. Patterson was tasked with and another student, George Tilton 's uranium measurements But Patterson's over the place. And they were they expected. We'd take George's uranium and my lead... Not right Patterson! There was lead there that So where was all this extra That mystery would take over the rest of and bring him to the literal ends In 1908, a woman was driving in Detroit. When her car A passing motorist stopped to help. In those days He knelt down and and the engine roared to life. A The man couldn't get out of the way. the face and broke his jaw. He died as a result of his His name was Byron Carter, and he was the founder So he was well connected in the He counted among his close friends, the Leland was so death that he resolved to Leland hired Charles starting car. And by 1911, he Hand cranking was difficult and but a car that started itself changed everything. The world's first crankless car was the Cadillac Model 30. It cars before it. It had a top 40 horsepower, double the Ford huge success for Cadillac, sales, but it had a problem. In internal combustion engines which is then The expanding hot The problem with the compressed the fuel-air models so much in fact, that spontaneously combust before So rather than orderly, you'd get multiple haphazard turbulent pressure waves resulting sound led the To become known as engine Knocking wasn't just hard on performance, it reduced power efficiency. The vibrations walls of the cylinder engine. The good news was that engine changing the fuel. Different levels of compression before example, will spontaneously compression. Iso-octane, on much higher compression ratio it's much less likely to cause compression a fuel can with the octane rating system, iso-octane to have a rating of zero. Now real fuels aren't ingredients. They're a mix of hydrocarbons. But the octane of octane and heptane gives example, 98 octane fuel can as a mixture of 98% octane and take a little bit of 98 octane piston. And when I compress nothing happens which is This fuel can withstand a lot octane rating of 20. So it iso-octane and 80% n-heptane. diesel in there, let's see compression ratio. There you go. You get a little because this is a low octane diesel is meant to do. You But you don't want this sort spark plugs. The reason fancy is to prevent knocking in high-performance engines. Kettering wanted to find an the octane rating of ordinary high-compression engines. So engineer Thomas Midgley Jr. sorts of compounds from melted acetate and aluminum chloride. had no more effect than Ethanol was an interesting knocking, but you needed a lot mixture for it to be would be expensive and hard to was really after an additive produce and effective even at trying. Then he hit on wonderfully as an anti knock smell. You couldn't get rid of bathing. His wife was so had to sleep in the basement wrote, I don't think that economy, humanity would suffer On December 3 1921, after five problem, Midgley found what he solution, tetraethyl lead. in the center. This additive looking for. It stopped the was cheap to produce and all, you only needed one part effective. In a call to you imagine how much money We're going to make $200 is over 3 billion in today's discovery, the American prestigious Nichols award, and of public talks, but Midgley patented the process for they called their new additive confused with another common made no mention of lead. Then America's largest corporations Standard Oil of New Jersey to Their marketing was brilliant. record of accomplishment here without confidence that these eye to the future, looking for which will make things better at the 1923 Indianapolis 500, used Ethyl and the demand for keep up Ethyl Corporation had in New Jersey. But the project months of operating, dozens of poisoning. Five of them died. To address the public outcry, conference. And there he his hands, and he inhaled it he could do this daily without dangers. The reason he had was because he spent much of himself was recovering from anywhere near his company's Lead is dangerous even in in our bodies, so there's no it. And like calcium lead can meaning it can continue to initial exposure. The organ brain. Lead breaks down the prevents the release of common symptoms of lead memory loss and tingling in children are particularly cause permanent learning problems, and the dangers of hundreds of years. Already in remarked that lead had been considering its known with concern how long a useful before it is generally would have been aghast to later, scientists planned to add public health officials from health service, wrote to against producing Tetraethyl creeping and malicious poison health. Their concerns were This model shows how just the containing Tetraethyl lead and No one doubted that a lot of much harm could a little lead By the 1950s, millions of burning lead in their cars and Some of that lead ended up on samples, preventing him from 1952, he moved to Caltech, scratch, suspicious of he tore the electrical cables lead solder. He cleaned the ammonia and made sure that air the lab. To go inside, you had Patterson basically invented room, he turned his attention solar system. meteorites. All had long since been destroyed meteorites come from asteroids time as Earth. They have just until they entered the Earth's measure the age of the Earth meteorites. Patterson measured three different radiometric found they were all 4.55 is within 0.15% of the the age of the earth. You experiment, people thought the younger. So Patterson had done Earth, but he wasn't done Public concern about lead grow. But President of pushed back saying, &quot;We do not what has come to the industry the possibility that a hazard Scientists funded by the Ethyl was a natural part of our harmful to people. But natural is the lead in our the skills to find out. He began by measuring lead in natural, he expected the the same regardless of depth. increased recently, it would surface. He took samples in Oceans down to a depth of four lead concentrations were the surface. Lead pollution exactly had it occurred? To find out Patterson had to Antarctica. Ice cores record going back 1000s of years, the atmosphere have been elevated of it is due to human activity metal. You can see the rise Roman Empires. The dip caused 1300s. And of course, the to industrialization and So what did this do to people? lead levels in the teeth and Americans. And for comparison, and teeth of Peruvian and lived over 1600 years ago, to much less lead in their modern Americans had about 100 bones. But results showed it 1,000. 20th century Americans their bones than their teeth revealed that even Lead considered safe resulted in and increased behavioral consensus on the part of industry and its spokesmen at extremely low doses. A those with higher levels of many times more likely to fail result of studies like these, acceptable level of lead in 60 micrograms per deciliter know, today, there is no safe is believed to be responsible unexplained intellectual study published in 2022, US population, that's 170 high levels of lead in early 1951 and 1980, are The author's estimate that in of more than 800 million IQ intelligent today because of even more troubling steady rise in crime from the abruptly declined. This graph of preschool blood lead levels obvious question is did kids levels of lead grow up to otherwise would have? You spurious correlation. But the countries, including Britain, know there's a causal exposure and antisocial or 340 Teenagers found that those times as likely to have than similar demographic ins with the law. Now, this responsible for all of the very likely responsible for Now, it's tough to estimate lead. One of its lesser known arteries, leading to increased study from 2018 found lead was heart disease deaths per year rate over the past century, deaths in the US alone. approach 100 million. Most of Midgley's decision to put lead knew firsthand was toxic, but profits. And the problem is deaths caused by lead range year. The 2020 UNICEF report children globally, that's over blood lead levels at or above A lot of this lead now comes processes, but some is still After Midgley's success with another engineering project. also household appliances and most common gases used as formate and sulfur dioxide. is flammable. Midgley was alternative and in 1928, he flammable refrigerant called this new product Freon safety, during the unveiling Society, Midgley inhaled a out a candle. In the following very popular and were used as problem is CFCs are light and atmosphere, they climb up into can remain for 50 to 100 is hit by an ultraviolet energy, it breaks apart, this chlorine atom can then apart into chlorine monoxide was another environmental ozone layer. With less ozone atmosphere increasing the cataracts. Plus CFCs are kilogram they produce 10,000 The historian John McNeil impact on the atmosphere than Earth's history. An agreement Protocol went into effect in now showing signs of recovery, more decades to fully recover. In 1940, at the age of 51, Midgley contracted polio and to help him get up, he devised a series of ropes and pulleys. using the contraption, he and died of strangulation. Thanks to the work of Clair that the lead in our Burning lead and combustion elements across the planet. at the South Pole and even our ban leaded fuel and cars in followed suit. Algeria was the calculates that the saves over a million lives per dollars. But leaded gas is still used, airplane engines. That's now emissions into the air in the You will observe with concern how long a useful before it is generally When I first learned about Patterson, I was amazed by how single person could do to the to the sponsor of this video taking action on climate that we tackle the climate systemic change. And by making choices ourselves. On Wren's much carbon you emit and which impact. And if you like you through a monthly go to support a variety of greenhouse gases in the particularly like involves wood from California forests. Plus the collected wood is material that locks up the years. Once you sign up to you'll receive monthly updates It's completely transparent every tree planted every acre carbon offset, and for the using the link in the pay for the first month of to thank Wren for supporting thank you for watching.