Transcriber: Eunice Tan Have you ever met a monster? Someone so scary they alerted One morning, I was going to my job I stepped into a crowded elevator, faced front, and got the sense that someone So I glanced over my shoulder to see this man staring at me with cold shark eyes. So I stared back, and my look said &quot;rude person,&quot; and he didn't drop his eyes. So I ended that contest alarm bells sounding in my head. I instantly decided I didn't want him So at the next stop, I darted out at the last minute. I flew up the stairs my heart pounding. The fear of monsters is instinctive. In Denver, in 2005, reports of a serial rapist some were carrying baseball bats. Police released a name, Brent Brents, and the media scrambled to find out A reporter at the rival newspaper got and she said, &quot;He deserves whatever he gets,&quot; before hanging up. One sentence, but we'd been scooped. &quot;Get thee on a plane &quot;Find his family So I did. His mother described Brents He'd grown up hunting and fishing; ran track, wrestled, boxed. He had a learning disorder and became frustrated, He started smoking pot and that's when he began At 13, he flipped a switch and was sent to juvenile detention, where he was in and out when he was convicted He served 16 years in prison His sister remarked that Brent who had died the year before. So I turned to the mom and said, &quot;I'm sorry to ask, but this is a standard question was Brent ever abused as a child?&quot; There was a long pause, and then, looking down, she said, &quot;Brent makes up all kinds of lies.&quot; Police caught him At the start of that weekend, a detective had told him on the phone, &quot;Turn yourself in, you little punk.&quot; Brents essentially replied, That weekend, he raped five victims, and nearly beat a young woman to death. The DNA from those cases and the manhunt that followed ended in a dramatic car chase where police captured him at gunpoint. This kind of story Reporters flocked I didn't think it would do any good. Instead, I sent him a letter two sentences: &quot;Dear Brent, I went to Arkansas, where I met If you were to ask them, they would say I treated them and I would do the same for you.&quot; I then gave him the phone and told him to call collect anytime. Because I figured on the back of the envelope, I wrote, &quot;Please don't be afraid to open this.&quot; At the end of that week, police issued a statement And since they'll protect the identity they'll only release the cross streets &quot;Get thee to those cross streets, &quot;Find this anonymous victim, Right. So off we went to those cross streets, and we found a sea of rental units, like giant Legos. We knocked on doors It was close to getting dark Dog walkers are always great and sure enough, she said the handyman had told her She gave us the handyman's door number, and he gave us the victim's door number. I knocked on the door, and I could see this tiny, And I identified myself, &quot;You scared me.&quot; Her name is Margaret, and she told me her story. Her attack had happened and she still had the yellow outlines Brents had rushed her at her front door - she was coming home from running errands. She fought him, and he beat and choked her and then raped her. Margaret pointed to her couch, which had a big chunk The police had taken it for evidence because that was where And when you can't afford a new couch and you can't afford and Margaret couldn't - then you're forced to live The police had told her the DNA from her case They gave her no hope of solving her case. And then she saw a story and recognized his mug shot One of the last things she said to me She said, &quot;I hate him. Yet I still feel sorry for him. An animal - poor creature.&quot; A week later, Brents called me. One of the first things he said to me was I love it when people call me and say, &quot;I'm not going to talk to you.&quot; Okay. He then said, &quot;I have one question for you, and anything further And he said, &quot;People say Do you think so?&quot; And without thinking, You've done monstrous things, but I don't consider you a monster.&quot; And that's how we started In one letter, Brents wrote, &quot;Don't trip - I've actually stood And rolling my eyes, I pulled out a piece of paper &quot;Don't BS me. We had a deal And I realized that had been him The man whose very presence had caused me to run to the newsroom It turned out that Brents A few months before I had co-authored a three-part series into how the military mishandles cases and that had resonated with him. Not because he was a perpetrator, but because the angry man-child within him This is a picture of Brent in first grade. His father had been raping him A few weeks after this next picture his father beat him so badly that he suffered as &quot;a left orbital blowout fracture.&quot; His left eye socket was broken. Records and interviews with family members indicate that his father The two children from his second marriage were both removed from the home And Brent and his brother although it's not clear why. Brent's father told him that he himself had been beaten by his father, Brent's grandfather. And so the pattern repeated: pain, degradation, shame. Brent Brents did to others And while he was still a child, He once wrote, &quot;I don't remember much except fear and shame Brents told me that after &quot;Turn yourself in, you little punk,&quot; that he, Brents, Then he'd gone and committed And I'm not saying that these factors are an excuse He made choices. He absolutely deserves But knowing what happened to him does help explain why someone like Brents with such a lack of empathy - that his brain was predisposed to it and the abuse inflicted It's human nature to want to distance yourself label him as a &quot;monster,&quot; We don't want to have because then it could mean that we too But putting a rapist in the category but it's more dangerous for tomorrow because then we won't believe a co-worker, a trusted friend. And that enables them The dominant theme of how to prevent is cloaked in helpful advice like &quot;Don't walk alone, don't drink too much, And the message, primarily to women, is &quot;Don't get raped.&quot; How about we turn our focus &quot;Don't rape.&quot; And then why don't we take it and ask ourselves what are we doing wrong as a culture Because whether it's the ex-convict the college boy who rapes his girlfriend, or the celebrity who drugs they all choose to exert anger, power, And with that choice, And they all leave pain in their wake. I've interviewed more than 50 survivors in the past two years alone. And the details I learn paint a picture of so many young men They isolate their intended victim, they ply them with drugs and alcohol, they lock doors, they ignore tears, they ignore the fact their victim 10 years ago, Brent Brents Today, all over this country, we're seeing Why is this still happening? Why do we continue to reinforce that their worth is linked What if we prized compassion When they're little, we tell our kids, &quot;Play nicely in the sandbox.&quot; They get older, and we say, &quot;Don't get in fights in the playground. Take a breath, count to 10, walk away.&quot; Then they get older still, and we teach them about the biological What if we were to evolve and teach them how feeling shame, how feeling powerless, feeling angry - all of which cover up hurt and rejection - could cause them to want And that they can learn At least start that conversation. And then speak up and you'll know it when you see it. Don't make excuses for it, And because sexual assault starting with verbal harassment speak up if you hear or read a joke It's not funny; it's not sexy. It's dangerous. If someone confides in you believe them. False reports are so rare, Listen to them without judgment. Help them find resources and then support For victims, Brents told me that group counseling for sexual offenders For an inmate even to be seen puts their safety at risk. And once there, they don't want It's difficult to change And if we really do want why not offer more that can be felt with Something a damaged person Instead of building more prisons why don't we try to prevent them? Brents has often said, by the time he was nine, What if someone had intervened A neighbor, a teacher. How could no one have noticed smelling like urine because he had wet the bed rather than creep and risk waking his father? If you help an abused child, you could be preventing a lifetime of pain So many people today where the garage is the dominant feature. They drive up to their garage at night, the door goes up, the car goes in, and they stay inside They can't tell you the name They won't interact, What if we dared to care It's a harsh truth, but our society cares more if they are the right kind of victim. Remember how police told Margaret the DNA from her case When Brents attacked victims that DNA was processed within hours. Lady Justice might be blind, I stayed in touch with Margaret as her case wound its way In July of 2005, Brents Like many survivors who struggle Margaret was terrified She had nightmares, flashbacks. She couldn't hold down a job. Her marriage fell apart. The day before the hearing, Margaret asked me to deliver and I agreed. And this was her message: &quot;Tell him ... I forgive him.&quot; It's stunning, isn't it? How could she forgive this man Who nearly took everything from her? And she said, &quot;I'm not thinking of the man I'm thinking of the little boy And she said, &quot;Hating is not hard. But if I go on hating him, And she added, &quot;If it was me, I would want someone and not just look at me She inspires me. If Margaret can forgive Brent Brents, This case had a profound It taught me that we are all connected and that turning our backs on others It made me realize I didn't like It was actually Brents that he and I had something in common: we were both driven. I quit that job shortly after and I will never again work in a newsroom, because the desperate is unhealthy for me in many ways. And I no longer knock I started that correspondence with Brents because as a journalist who has spent I wanted an answer to the question &quot;Why?&quot; He began as a bug under a microscope, Brent Brents became a lesson Even so-called &quot;monsters&quot; Brents wrote me about his. He said, &quot;My biggest fear is that I will die without ever having done anything good.&quot; And that's why I tell this story. Thank you for listening. (Applause)