Stavropol Krai, Belgorod oblast. Vladimir oblast. From Khakassia. Buryatia, Yekaterinburg. From Bashkiria. Muscovites and St. Petersburg people are here. All in a heap. From all over Russia. &quot;Ordinary citizen&quot;. Documentary 6 am Thousands of Russian military personnel are held in Ukrainian captivity. The state keeps them in special camps that meet the requirements of the Geneva Conventions. How did I end up in the army in the first place? I wanted to walk on a knife edge between life and death. [Attention, prisoners of war, we're getting ready for the morning inspection] My name is Andrey Yevgeniyevich Yermolayev, born on August 23, 1980. I don't mind the filming. How long have you been in captivity? In a month it will be exactly one year. And what is your nationality? I am Russian The conversation with all the captives took place with their voluntary consent, which did not involve any rewards or compensation of any kind for them. All captives were informed that they have the right to refuse to answer any questions. The conversation took place in the presence of a representative from the Coordination Headquarters for the Treatment of Prisoners of War. I'm from Samara Oblast. I was actually born in Samara, went to school there, graduated from the Samara Polytechnic University with a degree in electromechanics. I worked in Samara for 11 years, worked my way up to chief engineer, and then moved to Irkutsk. I lived in Irkutsk for another 11 years and then returned to Samara to my parents. I have children, I have two wonderful boys. Well, I don't have a family as such, because by the time I was in bootcamp, I was divorced. My eldest son, Vanya, wants to become a pilot, first a military pilot, then a civilian pilot. I don't know how it will work out. And my younger son, Zhenka, currently - I literally learned from a letter from the Red Cross that - he is very interested in chess and wants to learn to dance ballet. Did you ever think that you would become a soldier? No, never. I was 18 years old, it was 1998-1999, and the second Chechen war had just started. At that time, my father was very close to the military commissar, the head of the military commissariat, and they made sure that I was not taken to this army, you know, to Chechnya. And then, sometime later, it so happened that I ended up here. And did you have any contact with Chechens in Russia? Yes, I crossed paths with them in Russia, and I crossed paths with them here during the war. As for the civilians, they are quite friendly people, quite straightforward people. The only disadvantage they have, I think, is that they want to win over any person to themselves and to... Well... To use them, to bring them some income. But here, at war, I can honestly say that they are cowardly. The camp is regularly visited by representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross and other international legal organizations. They monitor compliance with the rights of prisoners of war and inspect the conditions of their detention. I have never voted. Since I turned 18 years old when I became eligible to vote, and I never voted. Oh, I'm lying. I did vote for Zhirinovsky once. .Elections? But in any organization, whether it's for lawmakers or not, everything is already predetermined, and the word of an ordinary person, a simple person, doesn't decide anything. -- Massive nighttime attack by Shaheds on Kharkiv -- Yes! -- It is officially known that four people have died and another 10 have been injured... No one can convince me: any war is... It's politics and it's the division of land. That's all. Someone wanted to grab a piece. They just sat down. Well, it's just that even if you apply logic... like, logically. What do we have? Four or five years ago, there was a coronavirus. Roughly speaking, four people got together and said: &quot;Right, we have way too many people. We need to grab a couple of pieces of land over there. What should we do? Let's do a coronavirus.&quot; That's it. They invented this poison and spread it among the population. The population decreased a little bit, and we took a big piece for ourselves. And what exactly did they take? Well, no, I'm speaking figuratively. I'm not saying that it's... I'm just speaking figuratively. And that's it, and now that the coronavirus has petered out, let's start a war and divide this very Ukraine into pieces. But Vladimir Vladimirovich does not decide this. Neither can Zelenskyy nor Biden decide this. None of them. It's still a group of people. A shadow government? Well, of course, it's always been there, and it is there, and it's always going to be there. Whether it's 5, 6, 10, or 12 people, they are still there. The captives themselves maintain the camp: they prepare food, clean, and organize daily life. The camp territory is only staffed permanently by guards and medical personnel. So you wanted to walk on a knife edge? Did you succeed? I went to the military commissariat, filed the documents, signed the documents, a statement saying that yes, I am a volunteer. I... Well, I didn't think about anything at that time. There was nothing in my head. And in fact, even when I went out on all my tasks, I tried to get everything out of my head. Because it's easier with an empty head. So, I joined intelligence. When my father found out that I had joined intelligence, a special unit, he said, &quot;Do you realize that they are doomed men?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, I do understand.&quot; Have you ever shot at Ukrainians? I'll go back a little bit. When I was 14, I started hunting. At the age of 16, I was hooked on hunting. Saturday, Sunday - I was always out hunting. And I went hunting, starting with small game: hare, fox, grouse, wood grouse. I went after wild boar, elk, roe deer, and wolf. And when you're a little more cunning than them, when you when you take game, when you get game, you enjoy it. Basically, at that time I also enjoyed it. No, it's not a normal feeling. I'm kind of saying that this is a bit of a deviance, so to speak. Basically, I can say that 70 percent, probably 80 percent of the people who are directly here in the camp, many of them have gone nuts. When do you think you went nuts? I went nuts... Actually, the first time I felt it... I didn't feel it, more precisely, when I killed a man for the first time in combat, it was the end of February. It was an attack. There were four of their scouts. There were two of us at that time. We clashed with them. It was in a wooded area. Three... Three were killed, and one escaped. That was probably the first time I got a bang out of it. Are you ashamed of what you did in the war? I think not. Because let me reiterate: you see a person with a gun shooting at you, you shoot back. I don't consider myself an occupier. Everywhere I've been, in fact, in cities, in villages, in villages like... I don't know, maybe it's the local population that says that, but at least they never say... They say: &quot;It's good that you came&quot;. Well, you are carrying weapons. Yes, we were armed. We were armed, there were armored vehicles, tanks, like, in some places. But first, in any case, intelligence goes everywhere. Then the main body goes in. So if a person comes with a weapon, you wouldn't call him an occupier right away, right? No, well, that's... No, I agree. But the point is that they are saying, it's good that we came. Well, there is a small country, well, this country decided to divide in half. So they went out, smashed each other's faces, split up, divided, and that's it. One half lives on one side, and the other half lives on the other side. Everything is fine. If it were like that, I think that this whole ten-year war would have been over long ago. Well, Chechnya also wanted to live separately. Well, there are, like, everywhere there are nuances. Everywhere there are these... This is where I say again, we have to be politicians and we have to be so information-savvy that... Well, according to the information that is available, Chechnya wanted to secede. It did secede. Well, they didn't let it go. How did they not let it go? Well, anyway, it's independent now, it's kind of part of Russia, but it's kind of on its own. We don't call Ukrainians any names. But we do call "LPR" and "DPR" lot names. Well, the "DPR" ones are called &quot;dirindindins.&quot; And the people of Luhansk... Will you beep this out later? Luhandons. Is that chauvinism? Well, it appears that it is. The prisoners of war work 6 days a week. They receive approximately 8 Swiss francs per month (equivalent to 360 Ukrainian hryvnias) for their work. This currency is considered one of the most stable, and its use is stipulated in the Geneva Conventions. Prisoners of war can spend their money at the camp store, use it to make phone calls home, or take it with them after exchange. When I return to Russia, when I am exchanged, I will ask the FSB the same question. What about this expression: &quot;We do not abandon our own&quot;? Where is it [applied]? So you are not mad about the murders, but about the fact that you were not exchanged? Yes! Where is it? Where is this &quot;We do not abandon our own&quot;? What do you mean, you don't abandon your own? When Russia needed help, let's say, those who volunteered, mobilized, signed contracts, went to war. Although, actually, I doubt it... The majority of the population had the opportunity to dodge somehow, and not go. But they went. And that's it. And later it turns out that they are taken prisoner... Well, you are in captivity, you might as well stay there for a year, two, three. If you are exchanged and sent back, will you go? I'm not going to go right here again. But in the future, let's say, I will join the military. In addition to the Slavic war, there are other wars in which, actually, you can take part and... According to the Geneva Conventions, captured officers have the right not to work, but they usually do not avoid engaging in activities: as they explain, work in captivity provides moral relief and passes the time. Every prisoner of war who has worked for one year has the right to a continuous 8-day leave. Do you remember when Putin announced the start of the special operation? What did you think at that moment? That it's a special military operation. What was its purpose? Well... The purpose... I never thought about it. I, Danil Sergeyevich Nikitin, born on July 22, 1997. What is your nationality? Russian. How long have you been in captivity? Nine months in captivity. I live in Tver Oblast, the town of Nelidovo. It's just a small town. The population is about 20,000 people. It's not a rich town, we have some woodworking factories, but nothing else really. Some young people are trying to move to a big city. Like me, I once wanted to go to a big city, but it didn't work out. Well, whatever happens, it's all for the best. Where did you want to go? To Tver, the capital of Tver Oblast. Have you been abroad? No. I have been to Belarus. Why are you laughing? No, well, just because. But abroad, no, I've never been anywhere. Well, it appears I'm abroad now. I lived with my wife and child, and I have parents. My wife and I lived together in a common-law marriage. ...It appeared that we did because now she is seemingly living with another man. While I'm in captivity here... This was when I was still at the positions, i.e. at war. I called her, and it was already clear from the conversation: it was like this and that - and I realized she was sleeping around. And then one day, I went to make a call and couldn't get through to my mother. My mother was in the hospital and didn't pick up the phone. I called my father, and my father said that she was apparently already living with someone else. Well, what can I say... God is her judge, I can't judge her for that. There is still something left, love, right, I will not hide it. Moreover, she gave me a good, handsome, intelligent son. He will turn five in July. My job was ordinary, there was nothing serious about it. The job was related to woodworking. I sawed boards. I had work. And what did you like most about your job? Well, the salary, of course. I was getting 60,000-80,000 per month. Did you want to become a soldier? A soldier... Well, when I was doing the [compulsory] military service, I did want to become. And then, when I got out of military service, I even thought about signing a contract. But somehow all this stopped me... And that's it, and that's how I didn't become a serviceman. Well, until I was mobilized. What did you know about Ukraine before the war? Before the war? Nothing, to be honest, nothing at all. I had no friends from Ukraine... Yes, sometimes they showed us that there was a war. But otherwise, I didn't really get into it. As I said, I was not interested in politics, in all this. Did you ever go to the polls? No. And your parents? My parents neither. How come? I don't know. Nothing will change from our... from my tick, even if I put an &quot;against&quot; or &quot;for&quot;, right? No, why not? Things can change! No, I think that... My notion is that it won't change anything. Whether you go to the polls or you do not go to the polls. So Putin will rule until the end? Well, I think so. Would you like to see him go? Well... I don't think he's done anything bad to me [personally], like... For me, he's a... Whether he goes, or he doesn't go, I don't think anything will change, largely... He sent you to war. Well, to war, yes. A call-up paper, mobilization. I also took an oath, right? I couldn't run away from it, from everything. And what did you say in the oath? That I solemnly swear allegiance to my homeland. And that you will defend it, right? Well, yes. And how come you defended it in Ukraine? Well... Everyone has their own politics, right? And you say, because when... Luhansk, Donetsk joined Russia, it was like... they became my homeland. Isn't that right? I knew that those people who were from Luhansk, Donetsk - even here I talked to them - that they always wanted to be with Russia. I'm from Donetsk. I never wanted to be with Russia. Well, most of them. I don't know, the majority, or not the majority, from what I know, yes, they wanted to be closer to Russia, to be Russia. I came to defend the people of Donbas! You feel as a defender, right? Well... Not at the moment. What has changed? Oh... I don't even know what has changed. About the Nazis? I never saw any. Even when I came here, to western Ukraine, when I was taken prisoner, yes, here. No, everything is fine. They seem to treat me normally here, like everyone else, ordinary people. I didn't see any Nazis. The camp is located in western Ukraine. According to the Geneva Conventions, prisoners of war must be kept as far as possible from the front line. Do you consider yourself an occupier? Little by little, yes. But still, it's like f*cking... I don't even know how to say it correctly. It's like we're still in Ukraine, right? As if... We have already captured some cities, right? If you could rewind time, would you still go to war here? I think that... Well, yeah, anyway, the call-up papers. The call-up... No matter how much you don't want to go, you'll go anyway. So what about, I don't know, breaking an arm, breaking a leg? No, no... It's painful. When you break it yourself, it hurts. When you kill someone, it doesn't hurt so much, right? Well... Do you believe Russian government? Well, yes, this is my government. Do you believe Putin? Putin? Yes. Don't you think he fooled you? No, he didn't fool me. I am an ordinary citizen. Name. Hello, love. DO you hear me? Where are you? At home? - I can hear you. - Go outside so the connection is better. Are the military enlistment offices saying anything? The unit recognized you as a prisoner of war. The Ministry of Defense lists you as missing. But the unit recognized it. Since March 22nd. I don't know, they sent me some document. Put a deodorant and a nail clipper in the package. I forgot to write last time. I don't know, did the letter arrive? I understand, I've already made a rough list. And your letter hasn't arrived yet. And a black tank top with a black t-shirt. Alright. The kids are fine, they don't know anything about you, so they're fine. Everyone is doing well, don't worry. We are only worried about you. Father knows. Understood. Okay, that's all, goodbye. Hugs and kisses. We love you, everything is fine. That's it, the phone call is over, you can go. I lost my health for nothing, in fact, and I don't even know how I'm going to live on, how they're going to compensate me for it. I don't even know what my status is now, at the moment. My name is Denis Nikolayevich Gavrilov. I will turn 46 in a week. I am Russian. I'm from the city of Voronezh. It's a wonderful city. Not far from the border with Ukraine, by the way. A city with a population over one million, quite green. I like it very much. My son is graduating from high school, and my daughter is moving to the fifth grade. My parents are alive. I was in charge of sales, mainly dealing with food and beverages. Have you ever been to Ukraine before the war? In the Crimea. I was on vacation. The town of Koktebel. It was beautiful, a wine region, a lot of vineyards, I remember that. Very beautiful nature, beautiful sea. The people there were really nice, as I remember from my vacation there, they were quite friendly and calm. I liked it there. Did you follow the events in Crimea in 2014? Yes, I heard that some rights of the Russian Navy, which rented a base in Crimea, were violated, and that NATO troops were planning to enter this place, in Crimea, and that Ukraine withdrew its treaty... I don't know how true it is, I'm not going to argue here, I'm not much of a political scientist, as they say. But that's what I heard. Then, yes, I heard that a referendum was held and the overwhelming majority voted in favor of the incorporation of Crimea. That's what I heard. I heard the background story about Crimea itself, and how it came under Ukraine. The fact that it was given away, if I'm not mistaken, by one of our leaders of the state during the Soviet era. If I'm not mistaken, it was Nikita Mikhail... oh, no... Maybe it was even Khrushchev? The fact that after a certain feast, he just took it and presented it to the Republic of Ukraine at that time. Again, to what extent this is true or not, I did not delve into it, I did not read about it. So this is all information from television. Have you voted in Russia? No, I have not. Not even once? Once, it was when I was in military school. By the way, I also voted for Zhirinovsky when I was in the army. So, the same thing - I voted for him. He was a competent person, God bless him, completely competent, but because of his character and his behavior, he would never have become president. That's all. Do you trust Putin? Vladimir Vladimirovich, well, he is quite reasonable. Of the last presidents I remember... I'll say it again, I'm 45 years old, and... If you take Boris Yeltsin and those who came before him, then yes, he is probably the most reasonable president in history. What is the purpose of the military operation? Probably, to stop some aggressive actions on the part of Ukraine, omething that our president, Vladimir Vladimirovich, suspected directly, with regard to Belgorod, the territory, when clashes had already begun on the territory of Russia. This is the only reason. Well, hold on, the special operation started in February 2022, and in Belgorod, the first hits were only in the summer of 2022. Well, yeah, it wasn't right from the first days, it was later. So... Nazis in Ukraine? It's hard for me to talk about the Nazis, how many of them were here, and whether they are here now, at the moment. I can't tell. Well, at least here I don't see them for sure. And the people who work here, who live here, I can see from them that there is nothing Nazi about them. That is, people are reasonable, they treat us well, with understanding. So I can't say anything about the Nazis as I haven't seen any personally. I'm actually a contract soldier. I was a contract soldier, and before that, I studied to become the head of the food and clothing service. That is, it relates directly to the transport soldiers, the rear service. Basically, right when I came to the military commissariat, I mentioned how I wanted to serve in the rear. That is, not to kill, but to help. To help kill? No, with things... Well... Well, you went to war anyway. Yes, it is a war. Yes, I agree with you. It is. Yeah, it was very scary. Really very scary, when you see this many corpses all over the place. That's murder... It's hard to convey. I was just lying on the ground for 40 minutes. Things came flying at me, there was shooting... I don't know, everything there was, I guess. I still don't know how I was not killed immediately. I was just lying on the ground. I was frozen, my limbs were frozen. My arms and legs. I will not hide the fact that I was treated quite well by the medical services when I was captured. That is, I was not immediately taken to prison. I spent about a week traveling around a detached housing neighborhood, being transported. And even there I received medical care. I was brought to some kind of a trailer. Well, before that, I was blindfolded, so I couldn't see where I was going. And they tried to save my finger. To address the Ukrainians.. Well, perhaps, I would address them with the fact that, in addition to the war, there is also a life that goes on in parallel. That you should not give up, that you should do farming, do your work, as it is. It's hard to do work when missiles come flying. It's hard, yeah. I'm not a supporter of this war at all, of course, because I think that Ukraine is a fraternal people, we understand each other, without an interpreter, we have the same faith, so... We were never asked. At least when this war started, there were no votes. What did you dream of becoming as a child? I don't even remember, I don't even know. A good person, lol. Do you think you succeeded? I think so. Danil Valeriyevich Polin, I don't mind an interview. How old are you? 25. How long have you been in captivity? Three months, maybe a little more. What is your nationality? Russian; well, Christian. From the Karachay-Cherkess Republic. Well, that's the Caucasus. What is it like there? It's an awesome place, you know, mountains, no mountains, like. F*ck, I don't know what else to say. It's a small town, basically. But there are many nations there. There are the Karachay, Abazin, Circassians, and Russians. There's a lot of them. Normal people. The mindset is brilliant there, I would like to say. Have you ever been abroad? No. Well, only in Abkhazia. And that's it. Well, Abkhazia is a part of Russia, as it were. Well, you don't need a foreign [passport] there. I don't think it's a border then. Although you do pass one on the way. I was a sales representative. I sold water--well, in the whole Karachay-Cherkess Republic. I made 50K or 40K, depending on the situation. It got, well, I mean... It doesn't matter--the more money you have, the more whims you have. Have you ever thought about becoming a soldier? Yes. Even after my [compulsory] military service, I had this desire. Something was always missing, though, that would make me go and sign a contract, basically. And I didn't have, like, a clear idea in my head that I would end up, like in those kinds of places. What did you lose your legs for? For Russia, right? Why? Well, yeah... You have... You didn't lose your legs in Karachay-Cherkessia, did you? Of course not. No, it was in Zaporizhzhia Oblast. You would probably never have been there in your life if it wasn't for the special military operation. Maybe. What is the point of the special military operation? I have no idea. I am, like, weak in politics. I don't know anything about it. Tell us how you [joined the army]. No, I don't want to tell. You volunteered, right? Yeah, yeah. Well, I mean, there's nothing really bad there. I'm telling you honestly, nothing bad, like, nothing [against] your people. It's [just that things turned out like that] due to some circumstances. It just so happened, so to speak. Have you ever gone to the polls? Once. Who did you vote for? Well, maybe I don't want to answer that. Do you believe Putin? What exactly? In his every word? Well, like yes, like, I do believe, I have hope. But I wouldn't say that I'm like a proper occupier, to be honest. Well, you're in a foreign country with weapons. What do you call that? Anyway, this is a provocative question, I think. I don't know what to say to it. Prisoners of war have the right to receive parcels and letters. However, postal communication between Ukraine and Russia is currently absent. Therefore, relatives of Russian captives are looking for intermediaries in Ukraine who send parcels to the camp from the territory of Ukraine or other countries. Are you ashamed of what you did here? No. I'm not ashamed. I didn't really do anything wrong. Did Russia start this war? I don't want to answer that question. Did Ukraine attack Russia? I don't want to answer that question. Well, of course, it didn't. Everyone knows that. Is there any collective responsibility of the Russians for this war? I didn't even get the question. I mean, what do you mean, collective? Like, will a crowd give a response or something? Surname? - Ruslan Makarovych. - Surname Bez'? - Yes, Bez'. Ruslan Makarovych. Alright, tell me what you want. - Do you have a watch? - No, we don't have watches. - Can I order one? Well, later, yes, but for now buy what we have. Soda Alright, what do you want? - Mineral or this one? - This one. 950 grams, shall I throw it in? Of course. There is a bomb shelter on the camp's territory where prisoners are taken during air raids. Right up to here! You know, you've heard that a lot of things were flying over the camp here, right? And we're just waiting for it to crash here, you see... But how come? Because sometimes you don't believe in exchange or anything. It's a little bit difficult psychologically here. There is a certain contingent here that makes it difficult for me to deal with some people. Alcoholics! This is a problem, I think it's the scourge of society. It's hard with them. They were doing time there because of a bottle of vodka. His crony didn't bring it to him... He went to get vodka, came back, drank with someone, some dame, and came back to his house. He was like: &quot;You drank my f*cking vodka&quot; and stabbed him to death. The other one did something too... It was all booze, all booze. I, Ivan Andreyevich Varnavsky I am half Russian, half Tatar. 32 years old. I live in the city of Chelyabinsk. It is located in the Urals. It's an industrial city. Lots of factories, a bit dirty, but they are trying to spruce it up. In the area where I live alone, 60 factories have been built. Large and small ones. Every Sunday is a day off in the camp. On this day, the prisoners visit the church, play football, and rest. Is someone waiting for you at home? My mom; I am divorced, so it's just my son waiting. My son turned 10 in February. I missed his birthday twice already. Last time I was at war; this time I am in captivity. He was not told that I am in captivity; he thinks I am at war. He knows that you are at war, right? Yes. How does he feel about it? Well, he was against me going. He didn't want me to go. I told him that I would not kill people for money. And he... was fine with it. I didn't want to do it for free or for money. I wanted to go and help. In any way I could. And who did you want to help? Guys... Mostly... Russia. I knew that Ukraine was terrorizing Donetsk and Luhansk. They asked for Russia's help. Russia came in, and then I decided to take part too. You went voluntarily, right? Yes. Do you regret it? Well, 50/50. I regret that I ended up here. Well, to be honest, I didn't think it would be so cruel, I thought something else. I don't know what I was thinking. But it was very serious there. And how did you imagine it? I can't even say, well... Just not like that. And how did it turn out? It was tough, I guess, I would say. The last time we went out, it was in Bakhmut, in Klishchiyivka, and when you went in, you didn't even get to shoot, roughly speaking, well... You don't have anyone... There is no close combat, everyone is shooting from above. They shoot and fall. Everyone is going, going, dying, going, dying. My battalion is lying there. So you lived in Chelyabinsk, and you had a hard time living without Donetsk? I probably only read this word in books and heard it on TV a few times. No, I didn't care. And if you died for Donetsk? It would be sad. Well, for my family. Otherwise it would just be another death. And my son would have been left without a father. I think I was just a cruel selfish person, a complete egotist, that I just got up and left like that. Imagine how many sons you deprived of fathers... Yeah... Guys went on vacation, got married, made children, traveled - and the next day... they are no more. What a mess you have done here, have you even thought about it? Well, we have wreaked a lot of havoc, of course. As for the consequences, I don't know... If you win, you will get away with it, right? Well, kind of. Do you think we will? Do you have any remorse about what you did here? Well, so what - I'm ashamed, but what's this going to fix? At least if you were ashamed, it wouldn't be so bad. When, actually, well, by my will, a person suffers for no reason, I will be ashamed. Well, you came here of your own free will. Yeah, but am I personally bombing you with missiles or what? Did Putin fool you? Or did he not? In what? In what I expected and what I got? But he didn't promise me anything. Well, he promised me money, and he paid me. I think he'll wear [you] down. I think so. I don't know, I'm wondering myself how the war will end. Really. Wear [us] down to what? To victory. Because Russia can drag this out for a long time. It seems to have the resources, everything. And what can we do to stop people like you from f*cking coming here? I don't know, I guess, to show more corpses. To go around the fields like that and film. Our lot would say that those were yours anyway. But over there, it's just endless space of our guys, you run on top of them, you know, straight ahead, ou can't go round them, there are these windsnaps everywhere, and it's like bang-bang-bang on them, and then splash-splash-splash-splash-splash. I was running, and I was the only one who was running, as all my guys were killed. I thought: f*ck... They were lying there with their skulls, naked. I don't want to lose my marbles; it was the first time I had seen such a pile,&quot; I said: &quot;Guys, why are you lying around here?&quot; Z avtomatom bizhu. Strashno... Meni potim shche tut zdavalosia, nibi tip stoyit', I was running with my assault rifle. I was scared... Later I thought that some dude was standing there when I was in the dark... Now he has gone. I realized that it was abnormal, that I saw things. But later it went away. This smell... The flesh of rotten corpses would be... I can imagine. So what on earth did they die for? For their idea. Everyone has their own goal... Well, someone decided to achieve these goals through Ukraine... It is what it is. The command &quot;Dismissed!&quot; Yes, the main thing is not to get confused. I, prisoner of war Danil Sergeevich Nikitin Tver Oblast, Nelidovo, mobilized on September 28, 2022, have been in captivity since July 14 to this day. I am asking Tatyana Nikolayevna Moskalkova to bring me home, as soon as... To return to my family, to my home, to my child and... That's it. Some Russian prisoners of war refuse exchanges. They fear they may be sent back to the war or killed because of their time in Ukrainian captivity. Russia is also a signatory to the Geneva Conventions. However, according to numerous testimonies of Ukrainian soldiers released from Russian captivity, the Russians starve the prisoners, do not provide them with medical assistance, and beat them for speaking Ukrainian. As of June 2024, according to the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine, 2200 Ukrainian defenders held captive by Russia have been recognized as victims. According to the UN, 90% of Ukrainian prisoners of war endured torture in Russian captivity. In the fall of 2022, Ukraine launched the &quot;I Want to Live&quot; project, allowing Russian military personnel to voluntarily surrender into captivity. They can contact the &quot;I Want to Live&quot; contact center to receive instructions on safely leaving the battlefield. This project operates anonymously and protects Russian servicemen from potential persecution in Russia for voluntarily surrendering into captivity.