Get ready for a color test that can tell your mental age Well, I'm in trouble... a lot of times your brain feels way younger or older than you are... that's called Mental age. Do you want to know yours ? Lucky for you ! Bright side put together a simple test that will help you figure out if you're a carefree child, an old wise sage or just exactly as mentally old as you are... just answer our questions, write down your points for every answer, add them all up and get your results but enough talking, let's begin question number one : Look at this picture in your opinion, which color is dominant here ? You have five options here A B C D or E If you chose A it's four points the answer B equals five points if you saw C as the dominant color It's one point color D gives you two points and E means three points question two Here we have five beautiful shades of pink for you Which one do you like the most ? If you preferred shade A add three points Shade B. Leaves you with two points if your favorite is C you get one point Pink shade D. Equals five points well for E. You have to write down four points Question three Look at this beautiful photo. We have just one question for you is this picture black and white If you think that it is add five points if not don't add anything Man, I hope it won't start a huge debate like with this blue and white dress remember that ? anyway, another question is waiting for you ? Question four : I hope you like sunsets, just like I do so here's four pictures of a couple of the most beautiful sunsets ever. Choose one of them If the first sunset is so you add three points, if you got too distracted by the second one, you get two points. the beautiful third option gives you four points and finally, sunset number four leaves you with one point Question five Now that we're done with the shades of pink. Let's do the same thing with the shades of blue Which one do you like the most ? Shade A gives you two points dreamy B equals four points for C write down three points D stands for five points and E means... Yep one point. Question six : here's the beautiful winter view Which color in this picture did you see first ? White gives you one point Option B is four points if you chose C add five points D and E mean three and two points respectively Question seven let's make it a little easier... choose a water color If green A is your favorite, write down two points Yellow B gives you four points pinkie C stands for five points, red D leaves you with one point. Original E option equals six points and blueish F adds three points to your current number Question eight : Look at this picture, which color here is the brightest ? If you chose option A four points for you B gives you two points red C is for one point while D gives you five whole points finally E equals three points and that was the last question Time to add up all your points by the way if you want to find out even more about yourself Check out another cool test right here It will reveal the deepest truth about your character But back to our test... results are finally here. If you got seven to 12 points mentally you're just under 20 years old It doesn't matter what your passport says you're a carefree teenager at heart if you're way older than 20, Congratulations. You've managed to carry this constant feeling of enthusiasm and love for life through all these years keep shining If your result is 13 to 20 points, you are 20 to 29 years old, you are active Creative and full of life, but you can already call yourself an adult Childhood and teenage years are over But you took the best from them and left all the unnecessary stuff behind It doesn't mean that you're not having fun though, your life is just as exciting as it was If all of your points added up to 21 to 28 points, your mental age is 30 to 39 years You're still active and curious about new things and ideas, but you're already responsible and thoughtful if you think about it, that's the perfect balance between the children's joy for life and adults independence the golden mean at its best If your total number of points is 29 to 35, you are 40 to 49 years old You're mature and experienced, and you know exactly how to live your life You have no time for nonsense you're determined and hard-working You know what you want, and how to get it continue to be a true inspiration for everyone around. 36 to 40 points means that your mental age is over 50 years And that's not a bad thing at all on the contrary, you are wise and calm. You get what life is all about and you highly appreciate comfort You're the person everyone goes to, for advice plus you can always be trusted These are some rare qualities today, so your friends must protect you at all costs So what's your mental age and how close is it to your real age ? tell us in the comments section below... Don't forget to hit the like button and share this video with all your friends to see what their mental age is You can even find more quizzes and other fun and informative videos on our channel so click Subscribe and join us on the Bright Side of life...