I am traveling in a snowy area in Japan. I'm going to the place I've always wanted to go to Matsunoyama Onsen (Niigata Prefecture) One of the three major medicinal hot springs in Japan I will go to &quot;Taka no Yu&quot;. A hot spring nestled in a region of heavy snowfall It was hot and smelled like medicinal herbs! I'll stay here today. I bought olive oil at the convenience store. This time I brought a portable power supply but... I'm planning to install sub-battery system soon (I will introduce it later) Great beer it is cold A gas stove from Iwatani (*Use at your own risk in the car) Set to "low" Carbon monoxide alarm (ventilated with sliding door) Enjoy beer and firefly squid from noon it is comfortable The gas stove consumes a lot of gas, so I bought more gas. Public toilets are helpful Barebones LED lantern I'm hungry This is a Daiso product This is also a Daiso product 1st round 2nd round final round Everything is a stepping stone for this Drop the noodles into the soup stock that blends the Umami of the ingredients... The person who thought of this is a genius Also has a humidifying effect Because I felt like I wasn't getting enough vegetables... Thank you for the meal it is cold time for bed Good night (Sleep Talk Time) The other day, the sub-battery to be installed in the van arrived! 200Ah lithium ion battery with heat function Since I also use 100V home appliances, I got an inverter. I unified sub-battery system of the van with &quot;Li Time&quot; I will make time to install them. All items are on sale until 3/30 with 15% off good morning it is very cold It is inconvenient that I cannot open the rear window without starting the engine. Looks like it snowed a lot overnight About 40 centimeters piled up. Secure the passage I ate a lot last night, so I had only salad for breakfast. Protein source is milk morning coffee I guess everyone headed to the ski resort nearby. I was also interested in the ski resort here, but today I feel like going to onsen. I found a hidden onsen Let's go to a secret place There's no place that this mini van can't go. I will go to a secret hot spring in Nagano Prefecture called Akiyamago I will go to a secret hot spring in Nagano Prefecture called Akiyamago The weight of snow on the roof is likely to affect driving performance, so remove it as much as possible. Thank you for removing snow Start climbing the mountain Manual cars allow me to always select the optimal gear, making it easier to drive on mountain roads. It runs smoothly on roads that cannot be accessed by large cars Thank you for your hard work in snow removal Encountering a place where a large amount of water is flowing What's this? I wonder if they are running hot spring water to remove snow? Entered Nagano Prefecture This is the destination hot spring No one is there No one answers to my call When I call another hot spring down the road... It is possible to take a bath! Further into the hinterland arrival A secret onsen located after climbing the mountain for over an hour wow this is heaven It was the best onsen experience ever When I get off the mountain... It seems like a festival is being held at a sake brewery. Naeba Sake Brewery late lunch Because it's a great opportunity I'll also buy a sake. Today we will meet my friends &quot;vanlife-kyo&quot; who are YouTubers. They stay in this area all winter long for snowboarding Roadside Station Minamiuonuma early dinner Stewed offal set meal As the reputation suggests, it's delicious. my friends have arrived. We'll enjoy drinking tonight and snowboarding tomorrow. We arrival at Mt. Hakkaisan We had a great time drinking and talking in their van. Came back to my mini van After falling asleep... I woke up at a strange time Liverpool vs Man City has begun. Support Endo. forced De Bruyne to be substituted It was a great match I'm very proud to have a Japanese player in such a superstar group. next morning it is super cold Morning routine: start the engine and open the back window Gas stove has poor fuel efficiency but is excellent as a heater. Clear skies after snowfall I was aiming for this The cup I forgot in their van last night It's frozen Get ready... Now it's time Spectacular view &quot;vanlife-kyo&quot; who are currently in the groove They are just as happy as they are in the video. A girl who has been snowboarding for 2 years she has great physical ability I'll go back Thank you for your watching!