Getting to Egypt, by the way, was the most hassle I've It was the fact that absolutely no one wanted to talk to me. By going to the Suez Canal, I visited the Suez Canal control tower and seeing for myself how things worked. It was only by going to the in Ismailia, and hearing the lawyers talk about the problems on the bridge, that we learned all this new information. A giant container ship is blocking the Suez Canal. One of the world's busiest waterways, the route is vital for from oil to consumer goods. Initially people blamed it was never a very simply because strong winds happened for about half the year. Bad weather may not be the main reason why the ship got stuck. It could have been a That will be revealed According to evidence that was presented in an Egyptian court, the pilots shouting at each other, trading insults. So if this lasts for it could cause major headaches for global shipping and energy markets. Why did this situation even This ship is so huge. It's as long as the Empire And it is blocking the entire since it ran aground on Tuesday. I think most of us aren't aware of just how much global trade hangs by a thread. Hi, my name's Kit and I'm a reporter for Bloomberg. I thought it was critical to actually go to Egypt to report this story. I visited the Suez Canal Authority, I spoke to the chief pilots. I attended a couple of the court hearings and saw the ship owners for the first time that in the hands of the Suez Canal pilots. I'm Matthew Campbell. I am a reporter and editor So modern ships of all sizes really, have something called a voyage The idea is to capture audio So in the case of the Ever Given, as in so many marine accidents, the evidence from the VDR to determining what actually occurred. The urgent effort to dislodge a cargo ship stuck in the Suez Canal, blocking a key global trading route. This is a traffic jam like no other. There was this rippling to global trade, and therefore who might argue that they lost money as a result of what occurred on board the Ever Given in late March. Then, the happenings on the bridge, what was recorded by the VDR, becomes a matter of incredible sensitivity because it is just crucial evidence. Ships have, with some exceptions, just gotten bigger and bigger The Ever Given, if you the value of the fuel on board, and the 17,000 odd it comes to about a billion dollars. This is one of the largest objects that humans have ever put on the ocean. There was a crew of 25 led by a captain named Krishnan Kanthavel, a very experienced It had set sail from Asia, and was due to arrive in In the Suez Canal, you typically transit So the Ever Given would've coming into the Suez Canal. There were terrible winds at that point, a whipping sand, a really severe storm. And enough wind, in decided that they did not want to proceed through the canal on that day. The captain of the Ever would have had a choice It is always the final But there are huge financial pressures on a captain in this situation. The shipping industry is A captain of his experience that there were huge getting his cargo to Europe on time. If you look at the Suez it looks like a fairly straight with a couple of lakes on the way. And you would imagine, I particularly difficult to steer a ship straight through the passage. But actually, it's a very we're told by all all the sailors and captains that we spoke to. It's a very narrow gap in places, 200 meters or so wide, and quite shallow. So any mistake is liable to So when big ships come typically they will take on And a pilot is someone who a particular area and and the helmsmen of a ship that waterway on what to submerged hazards, that kind of thing. They don't actually steer the ship, but they give instructions as to the best way to get through. They have to communicate with the captain and the other crew on the which is a difficult conversation to have because the captain and the The Egyptian pilots would mostly have been speaking in Arabic. So it would have been to have a proper conversation. We were told by almost that the dynamic between and the local Egyptian officials, can be a tense one when And there's a few reasons for that. The captain is the master of his ship. In normal circumstances he has complete control over the crew. He's the boss. But when you go through Suez, you have to surrender some of that control to the local pilots whose job it is to steer the vessel through the canal. When you do speak to people in the shipping industry, you will quickly learn that Suez pilots have a pretty mixed reputation. We had lots of reports of pilots asking for cigarettes, for example, asking for other gifts in in getting through the canal. And all of these things add up to make it quite a fraught situation. So the Ever Given comes into the canal in these very windy conditions, and you have to think This is a vessel that is 400 meters long. It's also, at the top of its containers, more than 50 meters above the waterline. So it really is an enormous surface for the wind to smack against. And what appears to have happened is the Ever Given began to and was swerving back And we know from some of the evidence that's come out in legal proceedings, that there was an argument on the bridge between the two Egyptian pilots. They were arguing about And we know that when the captain tried to get in the middle of the one of the Egyptian pilots leave his post. At some point, as the vessel was swerving back and forth, one of the pilots, from the voyage data recorder, gave the order to go full ahead. And that would have taken the Ever Given's speed to about 13 knots. And speeding up is supposed It gives you more purchase on the rudder when you're trying to steer And in normal circumstances, that would be a good But, the situation at that moment, it was the worst thing they could've done because the ship is in that increasing the speed can make it much harder to control because of something called And the basic idea is that or any fluid rushes faster, And because there's less pressure, the vessel is sucked toward That then became a problem as the captain, and the helm, and the bridge crew, fought to keep control of the vessel. There were, according to what we know from the voyage data recorder, orders given in rapid to go hard to port or hard to starboard. So eventually one of these where it could be recovered, and the bow of the Ever Given The ship just slows down, and then suddenly you So the Ever Given was stuck in one of the southern reaches of the canal, quite close to the southern entrance. Now, the Suez has been Most recently in 2015. Critically, those at allowing two-way Because, originally, the for vessels to go in However, where the Ever Given was stuck was a one-way section, there Somehow when they crashed, they managed to not only wedge but the back of the ship So the ship was left diagonally wedged, completely blocking the channel. By the end of the first day, there would've been a anchored waiting to transit. And that number grew Every day, goods worth $10 billion were arriving at the canal Look around you in any room the vast majority of will have come to you on boats. And if you live in Western Europe, if you live in North America, it is very likely that those boats pass through the Suez Canal. So every company that depends on this waterway So having it blocked is just a titanically important problem. And one that there were riding on resolving quickly. The 400-meter long cargo is stuck in the Suez Canal. And it is fouling up global trade. 50 ships a day normally carrying 12% of the world's trade. So the pressure is really The ship crashed at such went six or seven meters Two tug boats arrived very quickly. They were just routine tug boats, they weren't especially large or powerful. But they immediately made And it didn't move an inch. It was clear it was firmly stuck. The main entity with responsibility and freeing the ship is which is the Egyptian government entity that controls the canal. And the man in charge is the chief pilot, Captain El-Sayed. And he was one of the first on the scene. And he, with his boss, chairman Rabie, put together a plan to Initially they realized probably wasn't going to be enough. They would have to dig as well. The front of the ship was that they would need to do some digging. One of the earliest photos we have is of a small yellow excavator, right up against the front of the ship, just scooping out scoop And you know, it looks ridiculous next to the size of the This somewhat anonymous Egyptian guy became a global internet celebrity when photos of this went viral. Just a kind of metaphor for The vessel's owners quite quickly hired a Dutch firm called Smit, who are one of the most prominent salvage So a team of experts from Smit flew in, from the Netherlands and elsewhere, and see if there was a way that they could help get this ship off. Salvage teams are awarded a percentage of whatever they save, generally. There are different ways to pay them, but that's the traditional fashion. Now, if you're a salvage fully-loaded oil tanker, you could be in line for So the team from Smit arrived So that's about two days The view of these was that preparations needed to begin bringing containers coming up with a plan very heavy boxes, in order Now, there were some people is our understanding, who were more reluctant to consider that option. I think they worked out to completely offload the So they were facing a much longer delay, and a much longer blockage, and take the containers off. So the compromise that was arrived at was towing would proceed until the time that a crane arrived. And then, if at that point, they would begin unloading it. In a situation where every costs the world economy no one felt they had time to wait. On the 28th of March, that was a Sunday, you had two very powerful Combined had something like 200 or 300 tons of pulling power. The tide is, of course, very important. You want more water, more ability to lift the ship clear of whatever it's stuck on. There was actually, at the a time when the moon is Tidal peaks are higher. So if you happen to be trying to get a 400 meter container that's potentially quite important because you have more water to work with. So everyone knew that was the best opportunity were going to have to There was no sudden movement or noise. They just suddenly realized their tugs, instead of treading water, were moving, and they were moving because the back had very slowly started to So the rear was freed first, One of the worries was that when the bow did finally come free, it would swing clear across the canal. First of all, potentially to anyone who was in lots of vessels from the and potentially also swinging right into the opposite bank, grounding itself again. So during the towing operations, the crew of the Ever cables from the bow of their so that when the bow it could be held from swinging Smit came up with an idea into the ballast tanks of The back is pushed down and the front is lifted ever so slightly. That slight lift of the just enough to help them So when the tide changed, and the waters were flowing out, and the two powerful tugs were pulling in the same direction, that was when the front And when that happened, There was jubilation, as you can imagine. They all sounded their it could be heard from miles away. One of the Egyptian dredges was cheering and shouting number one, number one. So once the Ever Given was free, it was towed up to the Great Bitter Lake, which is a body of water And it sat there during what became a pretty tense legal standoff. You had the Suez Canal Authority, which is part of the Egyptian government, demanding compensation in exchange for letting the vessel go. Now, the Egyptians was a so-called salvage award, which is the percentage of value that you're entitled to Part was also for what amounted The owners of the Ever Given, and frankly, a lot of people observing thought that figure was absurd. The Egyptian government reduced I think it's probably a safe bet that the settlement came but we just don't know. In any case, it is a great deal of money. One of the amazing things about shipping is that it's kind of The ships have become too or in East London, so the So actually, shipping has But in that time, it has part of our lives than ever before. Everything we depend on, all the energy, all the everything we shop for at a it all comes on ships. For about a week, the whole and also understood in some And all it took was one for that to all be shut down.