This is one example of quiet dominating social media and Zaid Khan, a 24-year-old video about quiet quitting, and trend has spread like wildfire quietquitting, quitting, and Does anybody want to work Then the mainstream media became Like working overtime? No, ignore those. Quiet quitting is a really bad you're not working for me. The world is changing. And the people saying I'm not going back definitely quite quitting until flexible. Covid was the ultimate reset. people start to ask a bigger life? Do I want to continue do I want something different? which is awesome. But do I also family? Do I also want to be think all of these things are quite quitting is just the trend ultimate reset, which is Covid. Something like 40% of workers change jobs this year. The pandemic also triggered the ...to retain people, but they're Millions of Americans quit their opportunities. Some for a career continued well into 2022. This labor turnover in the US We do think that quiet quitting story. So it fits into the level of quits over the past certainly a very tight labor labor market, it makes a lot of willing to work as hard as they very easy to get alternative So the question is what is quiet referring to a situation where not necessarily go above and to do. It doesn't mean that They're just not going above and Back in my day was called For me. My last time quiet used to be in tech sales. What I putting in the 40 hours anymore. anymore. I wasn't giving into answering emails or texts or after the work days, and mine. Even though it's millennials and talking about on social media. happening amongst Gen Xers, for the better part of two to The anti work movement is not a flat' or 'tang ping' movement it as an anti work phenomenon. in China against the country's argue that quiet quitting is movement. In the US, quiet backlash to hustle culture, the by figures like Gary Vee, and I think it is almost direct hustle culture, honestly, and I people are doing it. When it comes to hustle culture from Gen Zers, especially that ensuring that they have that mission driven purpose when it across Millennials as well. People are being more honest don't want to give beyond the 40 would get because they're tired. There has been a tsunami of job In 2021, the Great Resignation cycle on or need to remain in quarter of the same year, US biggest ever annual drop. And leaving jobs or not trying hard hit to productivity. Quiet quitting is probably part labor productivity. It's hard to why labor productivity has of the pandemic, but it's that you would expect to be right now. Employee engagement also appears from Gallup showed employee for the first annual decline in engaged employees in 2020 to 34% Disengagement, not being productivity. Mentally, they're aren't giving it their all trying to stay under the radar very much been impact I do think quiet quitting is a People are so burnt out, we've going through a pandemic. We are fleeting and so short, and we we love. And that doesn't mean think that myth of the dream job People that shut down their in life, want to go to the don't work for me, I can tell Labor demand remains a red hot looming risk of a recession. quiet quitting a short lived Well, if the labor market were quiet quitting would become less While the risk of you are quiet would slow and then you could where you're in a job where you effort that you can, and it puts of moving forward at that job. effort, they're more likely to otherwise. So certainly as the were to go into a recession workers at a disadvantage. In addition to talking to I talked to thousands of leaders supervisor all the way up to tell you that they are bothered one of two things. One, we have job, but they're not going above done as an organization to these like they can't give their best We're evolving as a culture, the workplace is evolving. And Because it's the same concept because I didn't have it, means should have to work hard. Just want to be careful about is the the, you know, the Gen Zs can be happening all over the engaged and connected and share issue disengagement will be and quitting term will start fading both employees being productive being very successful.