This video is brought to you by plan for free for up to 6 months After spending 7 days in orbit around the arguably the most difficult portion of journey through the earth's upper atmosphere. air molecules apart, forming a layer of Re-Entry is where the Space Shuttle The Space Shuttle was a radical not only surviving the immense heat of to aerodynamic flight, which required balancing the needs of unpowered glider This is the Insane Engineering of the Re-Entry The Re-entry procedure begins with a 2-4 minute while the space shuttle is upside With an orbital speed of around 7 kilometres orbiter's speed by just 0.1 kilometre per orbit enough to bring it into a collision A precise manoeuvre; bleed too little narrow window for success, skimming through bouncing back into space. The orbiter Bleed too much speed and the orbiter will reaching the thick lower atmosphere resulting in catastrophic overheating. This narrow Once the delicate retrofiring sequence has begins. The reaction control system flips 40 degree upwards pitch angle, ready Entering the upper atmosphere at 30 times the begins to rip air molecules apart, creating a surface of the orbiter. With peak temperatures Nothing like this had ever been attempted. re-entry capsule to date, designed purely for but tack on the needs of an aircraft Thankfully NASA had a test run in 1959 history of humankind, and it advanced providing many lessons that were However the X-15 had one major advantage over the orbit. It didn't even launch from the ground. This allowed the X-15 to use a state of the inconel X, with a max operating temperature of 980 degrees celsius (1800 F). The Space Inconel X is too heavy, about 180% airframe. A massive issue for an aircraft The Space Shuttle's airframe therefore is not aluminium, which has a max operating temperature The orbiter would experience temperatures 10 times greater than this for extended To make matters worse, one of the the X-15 program was that the hot pink foam top speed flights was completely An ablative coating is a sacrificial and fall away from the aircraft, However, the ablative coating of the X-15 had a plane, and begin attaching itself to the cockpit Which presented a bit of a problem. At one attaching a small explosive to the window, and to remove the ablative stained window, Thankfully they came up with the much less eyelid to the left window that remained the flight concluded. Providing the pilot primitive solution that created stability causing the plane to pitch Even more terrifyingly, this coating oxygen and could be triggered by even a for a plane that required a liquid oxygen be multiplied many fold with a vehicle filled The ablative was also not reusable, which refurbishing the shuttle between flights.The As the space shuttle descended and wings bore the brunt of the re-entry heat. The high pressure shock waves forming around if this heat managed to find its way into the it would be game over. This is exactly as a result of damage to the The first step to protect the this super heated plasma as far away wings and belly of the orbiter was carefully We can see how using schlieren imaging. through the air with efficiency and attached to its nose at an angle This shockwave is simply a region and with that pressure comes This can have disastrous effects, as DARPA testing their sharp nosed hypersonic minutes of re-entering earth's atmosphere, the 1930 degree heat penetrating their mission of collecting hypersonic flight not only survive this mode of flight, but to A good portion of this heat could be blunt body design.Which creates a rounded lower pressure air between the vehicle and For this reason the Space Shuttles surface is phenomenon. The rounded nose cross section This shape minimised the heat reaching the which used lower temperature insulation. We are now 7 minutes into the re-entry procedure, but only shedding 0.5 kilometres per second of maximum reentry heat. A confluence The layer of superheated plasma surrounding computers and astronauts inside. A result with electromagnetic communication techniques. A For now the shuttle is operating on its own of attack is maintained. Managing that angle with easy task. A massive control surface was needed. This is where the rear body flap came into underneath the shuttle's main engines, The body flap doubled as a main engines. With no cooling liquid the flap was needed to shield the On the Space Shuttle's third flight the Kuiper as it re-entered and captured an infrared image of validate NASA's newly developed computational This is what it saw [REF] The nose and leading beyond what the Aluminium airframe These leading edges, experiencing the hottest material on the entire shuttle, a reinforced materials created in the years between the A carbon composite manufactured It was initially manufactured like any weave moulded into shape and bound the heat of re-entry would fire without special treatment. The post The carbon composite is placed in a the hydrocarbon resin to decompose, releasing behind. Graphite. Carbon fibres bound together withstanding 1510 degrees celsius. They face The leading edge of the orbiter's wings panels. With sealing strips covering an essential solution to a lesson hard To investigate the heat of hypersonic special kind of paint that reacts to heat, strange wedge shaped patterns emanating Small gaps in the leading edge to allow the wing without buckling. This localised heating increasing the rate of heat transfer to this small floating strips of inconel These strips of reinforced carbon However, there was one more problem. Carbon is a thermally conductive material, The space shuttle has been travelling but is still travelling at 6 kilometres reestablished through the cloud of This is a sustained heat, and this heat could make its way to the If these carbon carbon shields were attached into direct contact with the metal, raising To prevent this the panels were fitted with aluminium airframe with inconel bolts. is a poor conductor of heat and could handle without easily transferring This wasn't enough to protect the a layer of insulating tiles were placed The same insulation that was used on The Space Shuttle Columbia had 32000 of these temperature, white and black. Both of these Silica fibres just a few millimetres thick, the remaining 90% was nothing by air. a thick and light tile, composed of a The coating is where the tiles differ. The black shuttle, were covered in a black borosilicate This black coating helps dissipate heat inner structure. Black for the same reason the This rule tells us a good infrared heat absorber, basically any black object, is also an equally from hypersonic flight vastly higher than preferable to prioritise outward heat radiation, So why isn't the entire space The shuttle has one important difference with the the earth's atmosphere the intensity of solar orbiter mission at 17 days, this heat had plenty The orbiter did have huge radiator panels to size we want to reflect as much of that heat back These tiles were coated with but with an aluminium oxide additive coatings also helped to waterproof The tiles were assembled like a giant precisely assigned a serial number that corresponded The tiles were created by mixing cotton like then cast into large blocks, and were then could be cut into smaller sheets. [Footage] millimetres thick. With the 127 millimetres These sheets were then into their precise shapes, according to their assigned serial numbers, We are now coming through the end of of the heat of re-entry has reached the aluminium these tiles are not flexible in the slightest, could easily break the tiles and open up a path The engineers needed a way move beneath the tiles without To do this, the tiles were first glued in This nomex fabric allowed the structure beneath without transferring that strain to These tiles and felt were then attached A commercially available high temperature RTV To prevent collisions between tiles, gaps between 0.64 millimetres and Thankfully the issue of turbulent flow created edges of the wing, so these gaps were not In areas exposed to lesser temperatures flexible temperature silica and nomex fibres to create with the same fibres, giving a quilted blanket resisting temperatures up to 370 degrees and the up to 650 degrees. These were lighter and bonded directly to the structure once again We are now out of the communication black out and are about 45 kilometres in altitude. About The orbiter has maintained that 40 time. [Page 239]. Being forced to hold an control problems. The orbiter needs to orbit. Managing its trajectory while being Especially for a glider with no way to add If the Space Shuttle wanted its altitude faster it could So the shuttle needed a special way to adjust Instead the orbiter decreased the lift into vertical and horizontal the shuttle in the air and trading This is what a typical re-entry flight profile keeping steady up until Mach 12 descends through the thick lower angle. As the orbiter crashes down from The astronauts inside, who are already on their sides up 70 degrees. The orbiter is There are some quirks of flying this high The bank angle controls actually work in reverse it should increase lift on the to rise, banking the aircraft When the elevon is deflected downwards, into the to rise on the outer wing. This causes the As the nose turns in the direction of the and causes a decrease in lift, causing So, where a downwards deflecting elevon would here, through a series of events, it Ofcourse this bank angle causes for its landing and to correct The orbiter has now slowed down to Mach 3, and at this point flight crew deploy air data Two probes rotate from underneath the providing air speed, angle of attack and At this point the orbiter is flying like a and the flight crew needed to carefully Especially as the orbiter is not built like survive reentry, while maximising lift efficiency difficult by Air Force funding causing the design Early concepts of the shuttle with much smaller wings. More than enough to The air force wanted a larger payload capacity, and they had one more specific requirement the Space Shuttle to be able to take off and land back at Cape Canaveral after the space shuttle like a military operation This came with some issues. A single orbit took 90 minutes, in which orbit by 2000 kilometres. So, to return need to be capable of flying laterally by crossrange. The original X-15 inspired design North American Rockwell proposed this huge which would have given the orbiter 2800 miles). The full reusable concept, internal fuel tanks were not to be, These delta wings provided enough lift in both regimes to provide the cross range needed to reach Despite that, the space shuttle was an the commander had one shot to land it safely. In 1973 NASA created 4 training aircraft by space shuttle. [REF] In order to mimic the space shuttle would create, the gulfstreams flew working in reverse, and flew with their flaps With flight characteristics like this the its energy. Losing too much altitude far The pilots aim, guided by beacons and into a circular approach path 5800 metres moment they intercept this circle the space At this point the space shuttle is still and it's at this point the wings are stressed than at any point during the re-entry process And the shuttle's descent rate increases, now losing altitude rapidly with the knowledge descending to about 3000 metres in At this point the Shuttle enters a straight 20 degree glide approach path. Bleeding speed as needed using the on the vertical tail wasn't just used for it could split in two, deflecting outwards The gear is lowered as late as possible down the commander will increase the the elevons in order to slow its At the moment of main gear touch down open. At this point the shuttle is still close to 0.3 mach, and there is The runway at Cape Canaveral is 4.6 kilometres typical 3 kilometres long runways being able to As the nose gear touches down the the 4 main landing gear wheels are fully engaged Each brake assembly had nine four rotors, and five stators, which were On STS 49, Bruce Melnicks mission, an hidden away underneath the vertical tail speed flight of both the endeavour and the drag can even see the parachute door and sabot being It was designed to allow the Space Shuttle a contingency plan in the event a launch and land on a runway on For each and every launch NASA sent staff like Fairford RAF base in Gloucestershire, England. A large team was needed to assist with And these teams were not once needed in the A giant fan was even rolled out on the runway like the hydrazine fuel, away The mission is now over. The crew has disembarked flown back to Florida on the back of a People often say how incredible it is that this were designed with pen and paper. Hand and a labour intensive art form at that. Today we computer aided design like onshape. Today's sponsor. Onshape is the description. Where your company wants to or if you just need a design program for home 3D Onshape is built entirely on the users have some unique advantages. are able to work together in Onshape at the same Ensuring there is always a single source for in my job as a design engineer, where sales reps Onshape also runs in a browser, virtually any device or operating system like Finite Element Analyse and Rendering are the design process faster and easier than ever. engineers and product designers can get the and the base free plan is available to all for at onshape.pro/realengineering, or by clicking