An expedition in Mongolia, Professor Samia, a bear researcher, venture into one of the most the Gobi Desert. A world that's breathtakingly beautiful, yet extremely hostile. Watering holes scattered far apart The biologists are on the trail of the desert's Flattened grass Professor Samia and Yandan and its droppings are still fresh. They are on the trail of the Gobi bear. Very few people have ever seen one. Some say it's only a myth, The legendary desert bears Ulaanbaatar, the capital of Mongolia, an up-and-coming metropolis in the step. The expedition starts out At the age of 62, Professor Samia For the Gobi bear, however, he's glad to stick around Yandan is close Ever since she saw the first pictures she's been quite enthusiastic For the Mongolians, the Gobi bear One of the last great wild animals and it can only be found here. It's kind of a national symbol. That's why we're calling to make sure it doesn't die out. [Mongolian spoken audio] The road ahead of us is rough. We could also drive out with air conditioning However, if they get stranded Our Russian jeeps are robust workhorses. They don't have superfluous electronics. If they break down, [Mongolian spoken audio] Before them lies a distance There's only asphalt on the roads At the gates of the city, an old ritual. Go clockwise around the oval three times which calms the steps ghosts We continue through the step, The traditional way of life going from pasture to pasture still exists here, even though most Mongolians After leaving the capital, the route heads to the foothills and then takes a turn towards the desert. The refuge of the last Gobi bears If all goes well, it will take four days Everyone has a tent. There's a gas cooker for noodle soup and a satellite telephone for emergencies. That's the extent of the luxuries. There's still a program for the evening. Up in the region of the bears, a doctoral student has been monitoring and the first snapshots have arrived. [Mongolian spoken audio] Mama Bear with a baby., which is not only cute, it's the proof even under the most difficult This gives them hope which is sadly at the top The Gobi bear is slightly smaller and its defining characteristic The spot is like a name tag. We can distinguish The cameras because the bears themselves I've definitely never been lucky enough. Among us biologists, there's a saying, seeing a Gobi bear is as rare Who knows? Maybe it'll work out this time. The next morning, Professor Samia Monk vultures have settled here. They'll use it as a starting point and a breeding ground for their offspring. The scientist's car and tents didn't go undetected [Mongolian spoken audio] We are researchers We're looking for Gobi bears. Bears usually live in greener areas. However, there are also What are they like? Have you ever seen one? A Gobi bear? No, but I saw a photo on television. I'm not surprised. They are very rare. Our rarest animal in Mongolia, but they do exist, and we're trying so we can learn more about them. [Mongolian spoken audio] For Professor Samia and Yandan, it's now time to continue out At the same time, is going about its daily work. In Mongolia, but 25 million livestock animals, so there's no shortage Three days later, Extreme heat in the day, Not to mention the sudden sandstorms. Here, the Gobi occasionally interrupted by sand dunes When I came here for the first time, I thought not a single blade of grass However, that's not true. There are so many green spots. There are watering holes, there are animals as well. It fascinates me. After all, the Gobi is a huge habitat They are now at the edge a strictly protected area. The entire region is considered but at first glance, and nothing can be felt except heat. At temperatures only the true artists of survival With well-insulated footpads the rare wild camels are on the move. Smaller ears, that's how they're different However, in the fight for water, The desert nomads are specialized It's a life of hardship and deprivation. Many nomads and are trying their luck in Ulaanbaatar. Those who stay in the Gobi The frequent change of pastures Just as it was centuries ago, with integrated air conditioning. The multi-layered felt resist the heat in summer In search of the latest green patches, the nomads move with their animals However, springs that are occupied cannot be used by wild animals. A fatal, cutthroat competition. Even though it doesn't look like it, products for the international market In the extreme desert climate, the goats acquire, cashmere, the finest wool in the world. Sukh Dulai is a goatherd like his father Now in spring, In Ulaanbaatar, the cashmere is processed in modern factories. The only real top export of Mongolia, the cashmere goats for the desert nomads. [Mongolian spoken audio] It's butchering day The goats have nothing to fear. As wool suppliers, A fat tail sheep is slaughtered. According to the old Mongolian method, the animal is cut This is archaic, but not brutal. A quick death and a relatively non-violent Sukh Dulai are proud desert nomads. Tales of the Gobi bears are part I've never seen a Gobi bear in the flesh, That was over in the spring, My grandmother told me that she saw the bears There are people who say I believe it was used I don't know if that's true. [Mongolian spoken audio] The Gobi bear. Yes, that's a bit of a thing. I saw one once. I was traveling on camels with my brother The roar of the camels woke it up. It raised its giant head, The scientists say Personally, I think that the Gobi bears They do have those really short bow legs. On TV, they said that they also eat roots but I can hardly imagine In the nomad's stories, eyewitness reports City dwellers laughed at the reports as a made-up ghost from the yurts. It was the Mongolian Yeti, and definitely not a real animal. Then, in 2001, German conservationist Franz Wellek His recordings on film that there really are bears Russian botanists at the end of the 19th century. At that time, however, there was a theory that it could be a bear Or maybe it was a Yeti, a creature of fable Professor Samia in the Gandan Monastery. Even as a rational scientist he respects the Buddhist traditions. It took a long time to the old monastic library, a treasure of faith and knowledge. Hundreds of valuable manuscripts Among them is one of particular interest The Old Tibetan Handbook of Central Asian The book lists that can still be found in Mongolia. A work of science, Yet suddenly, a Yeti emerges. The Mongols call it Hungarus or Almas. [Mongolian spoken audio] Hungarus, Almas, or Gobi bear... In the end, those are three names The desert bear that no one really knew The reports of a bear sighting The artist got it about right. The standing Gobi bear For me, that's not a hybrid creature rather, it's quite clearly the Gobi bear, as the monk put it to paper The expedition is nearing the finish line. Arrival in the Tsagaan Bogd home of the last Gobi bears. I read in a research report, Is that right? Yes, cicadas. Are there any of those here? The professor responds with proof Through the Golden Mountains of the Gobi The bears have plenty of insects to eat. After four days, their destination Arrival at 1,700 meters of altitude. Bactoktok has been waiting The doctoral student This sounds romantic, &quot;You already look like a bear yourself,&quot; Glad that his young colleague Bactoktok is Lord of the Cameras. He'll evaluate thousands of photos for his doctoral thesis titled The researchers at five watering holes of the bear population The hut They call it their four-star hotel. The cameras get the majority For at night, the Gobi is alive. When the temperatures the animals venture to the watering holes. A khulan, decades ago, huge herds of wild donkeys Today they are a rarity. Their enemies are also right A lynx has picked up the scent. Then the king the Gobi bear. An adolescent male on the prowl. One of the last of its kind. Rendezvous in front of a hidden camera. A snow leopard couple endangered because of their skins, which are traded for large sums Researchers called the Gobi bear When its habitat is protected, also have a chance of survival. Working with the cameras is tedious. The watering holes and often located The professor to his younger colleagues. Bactoktok has a practiced eye. He grew up as a nomad boy in the Gobi. His grandfather taught him how to track. Ah, that looks interesting. Look over there, down there. What have you found? Are those Gobi bear tracks? They're a bit too small. They're wild sheep tracks. The tops point west. They were definitely on their way We have camera recordings There was real traffic there: ibexes and wild sheep [Mongolian spoken audio] Those are the only ones because the predators aren't there. Then a first sign of bear activity. The droppings are still damp, so fresh, perhaps even from this morning. We definitely know now What do we do Then we have a problem, but that's very unlikely during the day. Look over here. Okay, down there? Bear tracks They're as big as a small human hand. I think the print is from the back paw. The track is well preserved. It's no older than a couple of hours, Maybe a 100-kilo male Actually, Gobi bears are not aggressive, In the spring we shouldn't risk anything. After a brisk march through the mountains, The camera is positioned so that there aren't because even the smallest movement can trigger the shutter. Often, there are hundreds Researching bears through cameras [Mongolian spoken audio] Oh, we're very lucky. There really is one here, maybe two. This looks like a fully grown male. Well fed. Could it be the bear That's quite likely. Then we really just barely missed it. Yes, that's also a good thing. The recordings are invaluable They can observe determine the population, draw up movement, and behavior patterns. For the first time, they've let the cameras A snowstorm in the Gobi and a desert bear satisfies its thirst on the ice Laboratory analysis of the dung has shown It feeds mostly on berries However, the Gobi's sparse vegetation With the help of the cameras, Maybe there are a few more that haven't wandered but we don't know for sure. Even though we document cubs the population in total There are also indications that the bears sometimes cross but no one knows in the Chinese part of the Gobi. Maybe in the end, like those for the Panda bear but that's controversial. One thing is clear, however, we're running out of time. The fact that we have bears is a great stroke of luck. After all, the Gobi bear It's simply brilliant. For Yandan and Bactoktok, it was a successful tour The recordings prove Back at base camp, a little evening assignment Professor Samia wants to set down traps. Not for Gobi bears, but for mice. They make a part and therefore, it's important The mice are lured with some dry food, and so they can find the traps they are placed Bear research something that can only be accomplished and researchers The water is drawn and there's not much variety on the menu. Once again, Soup with dried meat and boortsog, [Mongolian spoken audio] The next morning, The fact that bears catch rodents but the Gobi bear It eats whatever it can find. Desert mice in their largely vegetarian diet. A yellow-tailed Mongolian gerbil, a typical domestic animal that shows up in children's rooms The Gobi bear cannot catch it. It's too fast. However, it digs up their burrows There are also reports but we haven't really been able Searching for food and water for the Gobi bear, and poses a real challenge. Some animals were caught and fitted with GPS collars. This allowed them travels huge distances at night It's the mammal with the longest treks. That means only in a large protected area, and only if the sensitive ecosystem remains free of human influence, does the bear How a brown bear can manage at all remained a mystery for a long time. But the answer is simple. Due to a lack of animal food, it has largely converted and its favorite thing to eat This is wild rhubarb. The leaves are so large can flow to the root, A perfectly constructed desert plant. Does the bear just eat the leaves Neither. It digs a hole It's the particularly nutritious part This is a very cumbersome way of feeding, We have done many fecal analyses and can safely say rhubarb They lived here a thousand years ago We say it's a relic from that time, and it has adapted itself perfectly It's slightly smaller and lighter, but also more resilient We cannot say what will happen The lack of water has intensified Many springs in the Gobi have dried up, but the direct influences of man The giant protected areas of the Gobi seem at first glance Yet the habitat for wild animals Whether or not the last desert bears will ultimately be decided because economic interests from all sides. There are gold, copper, which consumes a lot of water. On top of that, as well as the nomads that are very close The population of cashmere goats because their wool ensures The last watering holes Every morning there is a traffic jam. Sukh Dulai to the sparse watering hole We, nomads, are accustomed but it has become very difficult here I need a large herd to feed my family, but we can barely find enough water. Actually, I'd like to have Then it'd be easier If we increase the herds, I know that everything is taken away What am I to do? I cannot let my animals go thirsty. I've already discussed it but so far, nobody's been able to tell me Many nomads have long since left the Gobi Sukh Dulai is holding on. A solar panel provides him He has replaced his horse The family is sticking together His daughter so she can finally stay in touch who lives 50 kilometers away. [Mongolian spoken audio] No one can predict how long the traditional nomadic life The Mongolian state to the cattle herders However, this leads to new problems. This mound of earth A fiber optic cable has been laid here so that the nomads can also have For hundreds of kilometers, this new scar now runs and cuts into the animal's habitats. Khulan Researchers have found to any disturbance Roads and railroad tracks The last outpost of humans in the Gobi There's a warehouse of cashmere wool here Most nomad children and only spend the summer Professor Samia and Bactoktok because educational outreach work is an important part [Mongolian spoken audio] You've probably never seen a bear before, They're really heavy. They weigh up to 120 kilos. First, do you know where the bears live? Yes, exactly. They spend the winter in caves. The babies are born at the end of March, the mum and her child go out together. Mother bear is very careful with her cubs, just like your mothers take care of you. Do you have any questions for me? Teacher, how old can a Gobi bear get? Not as old as us human beings. It lives only about 20 years. It has a hard life in the desert There are very few left, so we have to protect Teacher, how big does a bear grow? As big as us humans. At least when a male stands up, colleagues of mine those were between 1.47 meters The females are somewhat smaller. If you look closely, Other brown bears are darker. The Gobi bear Then there's a drawing contest. The assignment: draw the Gobi bears The children already and also that poachers lie in wait for it. I drew this because people should know This is not about the Gobi bears. It's about the children So many young people have moved I believe that only when the children to live in a unique and that that is quite valuable, will we have a chance I want the Gobi bear to have a good life. I want it to always find enough to eat. The Gobi bear family should multiply. As a thank you for the visit, the school and invited the bear researchers [Mongolian spoken audio] A puppet play with a message. The yak warns the other animals that wants to kidnap the Gobi bears We mustn't allow this. Help the Gobi bear Of course, the play has a happy ending, and for the finale, Clumsy bear with bandy legs, you roam through the desert, and we wish you a long life, The children's song goes. It's the final day of the expedition. Professor Samia and Yandan make an attempt The camera recordings show that it's been appearing The flattened grass A path also leads This seems to be one There's water, insects, and it's shady. We know that it's hibernated here before. The bear hibernates Yes, but this is the exception. Normally it retreats to a sheltered cave but unlike, for example, a marmot, It leaves the cave occasionally to drink. In February, they give birth to the cubs. Although the mother bears the baby weighs only 500 grams. Today is no exception to the rule. As soon as the researchers arrive, It is not only one of the rarest but also, There are also animals The petroglyphs at Tsagaan Bogd, rock drawings that nomads made Immortalized here are many animals Wild sheep, camels, and ibexes. This is a wonderful historical document, a mirror of that time. The drawings tell us in the Gobi back then, and that there was a rich variety Only one animal is missing, and that is the Gobi bear. Apparently, that humans didn't get to see it. One can say it's remained true to itself. It was already rare at that time, The expedition is coming to an end, but work When they are back in Ulaanbaatar, Professor Samia, Bactoktok, from the camera traps. I think everyone understands that it's our duty There are many more animals from this small fly We have a unique ecosystem here. Little by little, For this, the expedition was important. Even though I still haven't seen but who knows? Maybe it will reveal itself one day. I'm not giving up that easily. The Gobi bear is endangered, but I truly hope This expedition and I'll definitely continue when we're back at the university.