Glory to Ukraine! With you Battalion K-2 Today in the video you will see an assault on our positions by the forces of a mechanized platoon As we can see, the enemy continues to lose equipment in attempts to break through the defenses of our battalion Now we are watching one MT-LB of the enemy, which is still going along the same route to our positions Everything is standard, the weather is not on our side , as always they tried to place anti-tank weapons everywhere Here the paratrooper has already jumped off Most likely, this is the paratrooper who survived, since I think there were more in the MT-LB 5 have already fallen, the mechanic jumped off after him Someone can be in the car and eliminated Everything, here she is already it just goes on automatic It was two different drones, two different angles Nine people had already jumped off The enemy decided to retreat These are our FPV drones finishing off the MT-LB A good strong blast After those days when we were stormed by large mechanized columns The enemy did not calm down at all, every day he sent one, two or three MTLB, one at a time. Sometimes it happened that he sent two . across the field, it was already blown up by an anti-tank mine. After some time, probably 40 minutes later, another MT-LB jumped out. We already managed to see this a bit earlier. I understood that we had not yet had time to mine there. And then, when their equipment was detonated, their sappers came on motorcycles, removed our mine barriers. They kept trying to change the route. Here he changed the route not as successfully as he would have liked. There was an immediate mine detonation This is the first MT-LB that did not reach us. It has, as usual, a huge &quot;barbecue&quot; They hung it with everything possible Rubber bands from the mines, which they constantly cut Here we move on to the next day The enemy threw a lot of smoke at once The drone the enemy, who was waiting for his column and looked at the routes even then and how well they laid the smoke. And they threw the smoke very well then, it spread low over the field and blinded our anti-tank means. In the last days, such a column had not been seen for a long time. A tank, MT-LB, left and another MT-LB is catching up with them. There was a column of three units. The enemy slightly changed its route of movement. These are buggies. Then even their buggies began to drive with &quot;barbecues&quot;. When the tank goes first - it is always more stressful than just an MT-LB or two MT -LB If an MT-LB or BMP goes with a tank, then most often the tank has a trawl or claws that remove the minefield. Here he left without anti-mine equipment. Here is one MT-LB and another Friend, as far as I remember, the pilots shot from FPV 118 OBrTRO And they threw this MT-LB here, then we finished it off And the tank continued to move on the asphalt Previously they drove on the field, but now they decided to change their tactics - to go on the asphalt, covering themselves with landings This covers from anti-aircraft missiles, from Stugna, also FPV- it is much more difficult for drones to enter. Since you have to enter from the front or behind, you can't enter from the side. Here our FPV flew up to the MT-LB, but we realized that it was shot down by the guys from the neighboring unit. And the commander gave the order to catch up with the tank so that the tank could not come to our positions Because when a tank fires at point-blank range, it's scary . The enemy, to be honest, is surprising. I saw that the MT-LB was hit in front of you, and the crew ran away. Anyway, he drove around and is starting to catch up with the tank. They are sufficiently prepared. There are hits, there was a good move. We see , that the cumulative jet went to the side, most likely through a grid or a &quot;barbecue&quot; and the MT-LB almost did not hit. We also mined on the asphalt, but we did not mine with heavy mines, like the TM-62. Something went wrong with the MT-LB and there was a command to withdraw or the mechanic got a little scared and started to withdraw himself Or it was a tactical withdrawal, the tank covers and the MT-LB withdraws At this moment our armored group was already on the approach, as there are risks that the tank may pass our positions Or break our positions and go further deep, then he would have to meet And a tank should meet a tank The enemy's plan was really good, but a little unsuccessful Here we see how they enter their factory, from which they constantly start advancing. More precisely, not at theirs, but at ours, just now under their control. Our FPV pilot is trying to catch up and destroy as much as possible In the MT-LB, most likely, something was damaged, as she was moving slowly enough. Here he was unlucky