When I was a student, I think the thing I In fact, I remember when I had to do some Europe and the system over there is different You just take a course of study and you concentrate months or 12 months if you're prepared to, aspect of your studies, then you meet with then prepare for the next one. So there's always a minimum of six months doctoral program of the school where I attended. But after my first year, there was an emergency I had to return to America, and to make a other examinations in absentia and then wrote me to take six of these oral exams in the I mean, exams that normally would be spaced same time in a battery of exams. And my whole career was going to stand or examinations. And I don't ever remember any more terror on that occasion. Finally, the time came for me to go by myself when I was still foolish enough to fly in And I went and arrived in Amsterdam, checked and had my schedule in front of me. Each afternoon, I had to go through one of So that was my first real experience of the was such that the first day that I got there it was daytime in Amsterdam, and I was walking couldn't wait to get to bed. And so when I got to bed the night before rested and prepared, and of course, as I would town ringing at night, I heard them ring 12 them ring 2 o'clock, I heard them ring, I And for the whole time I was there, I had like a zombie. Don't ask me what happened in those examinations, I took them unconsciously. I should have done them anonymously while Well as I say, I hate to take tests, and I the same way. In fact, undergoing a test can be one of the we ever experience as human beings, and so when we pray, that in our prayer before God, but deliver us from evil.&quot; Now you say, &quot;What in the world does that Well, nothing would be a greater waste of God and say to God, &quot;God, please don't tempt In fact, that would be blasphemous to suggest enticing you or me into some sinful activity. When Jesus says that we should pray, &quot;Lead in the sense of enticement to sin, but really is saying that we should get on our knees us into the place of testing. Don't make us vulnerable. Don't expose us where we are put to the test Well, apart from the temptation and the test test that was put before Adam in Eden and that was ever produced and ever endured in some European theologian, a professor who college professor, or some grade school teacher, and the man who was put to the test was the of the faithful, even Abraham. The record of this monumental test, the test chapter of the book of Genesis. Let's look at it briefly together. Genesis 22 begins with these words, &quot;Now it Abraham.&quot; Again, before I go on, think of those words, How would you feel if you got a summons in Saturday morning I want you show up at such to be tested by God&quot;? That's what happened to Abraham. God tested Abraham and God said to him, &quot;Abraham!&quot; And he said, &quot;Here I am.&quot; And God said, &quot;Take now your son, your only of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt I will tell you.&quot; Now, let's look at that passage together. The terms of the test. Well, you remember the story of Abraham that of Mesopotamia, a pagan ignorant of the promises a special promise that He was going to make He would make him the father of a great nation. And do you remember that God took Abraham and said, &quot;Abraham, your descendants will and I will make you the father of a great And Abraham said, &quot;How can that be? I am childless. The servant who lives in my house is my heir, My wife is too old to have children.&quot; And you remember how God had spoken to Abraham Your descendants will be from your own flesh. One from your own body will be your heir, but you're going to have a son.&quot; And as the story unfolds, we know that God would have a child, and that that child would And through the further descendants of that world so that all of redemption history is So when Abraham heard that, I mean he just He said, &quot;This is fantastic! The thing that I've wanted all my life more He couldn't wait to go back and tell Sarah, I talked to God, and we're going to have a She says, &quot;You're right! I'll never believe it. What have you been drinking? Are you out of your mind?&quot; And so Abraham said, &quot;You wait and see.&quot; And she waited, and she didn't see. She waited for days. She waited for weeks. She waited for months. She waited for years. No baby. And Abraham's panic was growing in intensity that he must have been sensing in clinging finally he decided to help God keep His promise. And so between Abraham, Sarah and all of those we believe that God's going to keep His promise come from you, Abraham. It's certainly not going to come from Sarah. She's too old. She's barren.&quot; So Sarah takes her handmaiden, Hagar, and child. And they call his name Ishmael, the father Now Abraham had a son, but God spoke and said, The child that I spoke to you about years wife, Sarah. She will bring forth the child.&quot; And so God, Abraham goes back to his wife you years ago? We're going to have a son. God wasn't kidding. You're going to be the mother of the son.&quot; This time, what did Sarah do? She started howling. She laughed. And the name, the word for laughter in Hebrew And so in her barrenness and in her frailty And when she discovered that she was with roam for a minute, when she first knew that been a fly on the wall and heard the conversation &quot;Abraham, I think I'm with child.&quot; And Abraham grabs her and says, &quot;Sarah, can And as the days passed and as the weeks passed, womb. And Abraham would take his old hand and place feel the baby kicking, and they were counting finally be realized. And then morning came, and Isaac was born. And the Bible doesn't say this, but I know, his tent and he looked up at the sky, and has kept His promise. And Abraham, who had hoped against hope, who son that God had promised. What an incredible story! And now in chapter 22, everything changes. The Scripture says that &quot;After these things, God called Abraham, just as he had called He called him again and said, &quot;Abraham!&quot; and You know, Abraham couldn't wait. &quot;What do you want now, God?&quot; &quot;Man, I trust you now.&quot; &quot;Do you?&quot; &quot;Abraham, I want you to take your son, and you, to Mount Moriah, and there I want you I want you to sacrifice him to Me on the altar.&quot; Is that what God said? I intentionally misquoted verse 2 to you just That's not what God said to Abraham. I can assure you that if God had come to Abraham I want you to take your son to Mount Moriah would've said &quot;Yes sir,&quot; and he would've gone taken Ishmael, the substitute son, the forced, and he would've killed him. But God was too specific in the terms of the Listen again to verse 2. &quot;Abraham, take now your son, your only son, Isaac, Abraham. I want your son, your real son, your only in, the one that you love, you know who I'm let me name the child. I'm talking about Isaac.&quot; And like a sword in his soul were the words to himself inside, &quot;Not Isaac! You can't possibly mean Isaac. Not the child that we prayed for, that we years. You can't be serious. This can't be the voice of God.&quot; Verse 3 in typical Old Testament economy of and saddled his donkey, and took two of his he split wood for the burnt offering, and told him.&quot; Soren Kierkegaard, the 19th century Danish and often considered to be the father of modern Fear and Trembling, and the thesis of this scrutiny of the twenty-second chapter of Genesis. And Kierkegaard would look at that story from different aspect and peer at it from another sensitivity of the poet saying, &quot;Why does in the morning?&quot; Were these just desultory comments added by there some significance in the fact that the in the morning&quot;? And Kierkegaard said, &quot;Well, maybe the author by this time in his spiritual development in God that no matter what God commanded him the test from on high would be, Abraham was And so he set his alarm clock for the time he could appear on the threshold of the morning, That's usually the evangelical mythical view Or was it that Abraham nearly went mad with was utterly impossible as he tossed and turned &quot;God, how can this be? Can this be You? What is this? Is this the temporary suspension of the ethical? How could you, oh God?&quot; I know Abraham lived before Moses delivered God had delivered the law in creation and the hearts of every human being, and Abraham that it was against the law of God to murder And other pagan nations may have practiced was more repugnant to Israel than the slaughter &quot;Can this be God?&quot; Abraham said. He is beside himself. Sleep becomes impossible, and so he gets out Now, we know from the careful study of the wealthy man, and that Abraham in his old age Abraham could snap his fingers and servants In his old age and in his great wealth, he Abraham didn't have to go out into the shed tack and all of that for the animals and then He would wave his hand, and the servant would And yet we read here that he rose early in He took two of his young men with him and offering. You know how people say, &quot;Look at how faithful What a hero.&quot; I mean, he went out there and he just couldn't I don't believe that. I think Kierkegaard had more insight. Martin Luther once said that the only cure and meditation, of the onslaught of a debilitating labor. That insight is as old as humanity itself, and got that saddle was because he couldn't going on. He had to do something. He had to get his mind off. He went out and took the saddle. He saddled the donkey, and then he went and What do you think was going through his mind? I had a piano teacher when I was in seminary, person, and her son was a physician, and he And my piano teacher was so proud of her son. And I remember when her son and his wife had and how the grandmother was so excited about And then when the baby was two or three, I some folks in the mission station, inadvertently daughter went in and opened his medical bag candy and ate it. And when the physician came in, the girl was And when that word came back to my piano teacher, And when she told me, she wept, and I wept, other by the piano. And I said, &quot;Mrs. Winterling, how you dealing What do you do?&quot; And she said, &quot;R.C., the more I think about And she said, &quot;Because all of my feeling, out of my soul, goes down through my arms, piano. That's how I deal with it.&quot; And I've never forgotten that. I can remember, when we were in seminary, Vesta, we used to send one rose to Mrs. Winterling And how often I've thought of that, sitting the feeling go out my arms and out my fingers. Well, Abraham didn't play the piano obviously. He played the axe. He went out and he picked up the axe, and why he was cutting the wood, he was preparing pyre for the body of his son. And every emotion was intensified with each And then he takes the wood, the kindling, on the journey. Then we read, &quot;On the third day, Abraham raised God didn't ask him to just go there and say, I want you to do it and I want you to do it Remember Jesus in the upper room on the night that Judas was going to betray Him, and when he said, &quot;What you have to do, do quickly.&quot; Imagine having to contemplate for days the And every emotion was intensified with each And then he takes the wood, the kindling, on the journey. Then we read, &quot;On the third day, Abraham raised God didn't ask him to just go there and say, to do it quickly.&quot; Remember Jesus in the upper room on the night that Judas was going to betray Him, and when he said, &quot;What you have to do, do quickly.&quot; Imagine having to contemplate for days the I remember when my wife and I and our family Ligonier Ministries. The first facility that we had was in a mountain and the land had been purchased by a wealthy And you have to understand that the Ligonier of the playground for the great industrial industry of Pittsburgh. It's where the Mellons play and the Heinzes And the woman that began, who gave the initial was the widow of the late great J. Hartwell in American history. And when we came to the scene there to start she said, &quot;I have a special present for you And she went outside and she came in with And she explained, she said, &quot;Well,&quot; she said, one is from the Mellon family's litter.&quot; And at first, &quot;I said I don't know about the of their owners, you know, can hardly be any have produced these animals,&quot; and we had this and then this magnificent sable Shepherd who Now, the Grand Victor is the grandest German You know, that's like a horse breeder buying or something like that, and these dogs were And so they were named before we received and the male's name was Hosanna. I had lots of fun with that, as I would go People in the neighborhood thought a charismatic &quot;Hosanna&quot; and &quot;Hallelujah&quot; out around the Well, it was only a couple of weeks after In fact, there was still some construction door built in to the back part of the house their own. And in the morning, they would awaken and play for a while, and then they'd come back And this one morning, I was in the kitchen running through the dog door, and as soon happened. I looked at him, and he was grotesque. His head was two or three times the normal And I said to Vesta, I said, &quot;Look at this The only thing I could imagine was that somehow had been stung a couple of hundred times and And so we picked him up, and we took him to The vet examined him carefully and he discovered dog's face and head. And he said, &quot;This dog has either gotten his snake has stricken him three times. But he's received a lot of venom,&quot; and he I've ever seen in an animal.&quot; He said, &quot;Dr. Sproul, I don't think your dog But I left Hosanna there and went home and The next day I called, and the vet said he important in this kind of a situation. He said, &quot;The thing I'm concerned about now, swollen shut and sometimes when that happens to them when they can't see that they lose up and die.&quot; He said, &quot;But I'm talking to the animal, I'm him all these injections&quot; and so on. The next day or a couple of days later, he The dog has still survived. His eyes are open. I think he's going to make it.&quot; Well, he was in intensive care in the animal and finally the day came when I could go and And before I went to pick him up, the vet there's something I want to tell you before He said, &quot;Whenever an animal experiences an what normally happens is the result is called And if you know your Greek, you'll would know Necrosis simply means the death of the skin He said, &quot;So, your dog has lost its skin from you come to pick up this animal.&quot; Well, with all of those words, I was not prepared, I walked in there, and I saw an animal that The skin, the tissue had actually rotted and were exposed and it was the most hideous thing the first thought that went through my mind But the vet said, &quot;Sooner or later this will &quot;It's important that he have administered and he gave me this big jar of this salve And he said, gave me rubber gloves to use And I brought the dog home, and we prepared The rotting flesh, ladies and gentleman, was into the house. And I arranged this corner of the garage for it was like he slinked away. You know, how sometimes animals almost sense ashamed, they're embarrassed for you to look And I had to go through the first experience that stuff on my hands, and I said, &quot;How can I put my hand in the jar, and I got that salve mean I was, I don't know, I couldn't look, face very, very gently, that dog looked at human and it was like, it was like he was for you. I know this is hard for you, but it is, it's, And I know this sounds crazy, but in that dog and me. So that by the second time I went in to put put that stuff on my bare hands and wiped this hard, thick coat like leather formed covered what once had been his face, and this looked like the Quasimodo of the canine world strangers considered to be a perpetual snarl, grin. But that dog and I were inseparable from that I mean, when I would lecture, Hosanna would He would sleep at my side when I would lecture. If I would walk out of the room, he would If I went to the woods, he went with me. I used to love to go bird hunting, upland And one cold winter day I was out, and I had And every hunter knows that hunting safety especially a barbed wire fence carrying a You take the rifle and you slide it under over first without the gun and so on. And I went through this procedure, and I had this fence and just as I was going over it, taut as the barbed wire caught in my coat me literally head over heels, and I came down And when I hit the center my spine on this I was numb. I couldn't move my legs, and it was like a My dog, instantly, Hosanna, knew I was in by now he was full grown, big barrel chest, And Hosanna sort of slithered, put his head snuggled underneath me so that I could wrap dragged me off that pile of rocks and got It was an incredible animal -- gentle, loving, When he was about two-and-a-half years old, And I took him to the vet, and I said, &quot;He examined him and didn't know what, gave him The next day, he had another convulsion. The next day, another convulsion, the day having three, four, five, six convulsions And the vet tried every medicine that he knew He said, &quot;R.C., the only thing I can think to the damage to the dog's brain from the And now with the degree of medication that function was so debilitating that he was in humane thing to do is to use the euphemism, I brought him home. I said, &quot;I have to talk to the kids, I have We talked about it, and Vesta and I agreed She said, &quot;Well, how should we do it?&quot; I said, &quot;Well you know, we shouldn't have give him a lethal injection. He loves to hunt with me. I'll just take him out tomorrow in the woods his attention is drawn like Lennie and George I will just turn the sights of my rifle, get misery instantly.&quot; And I thought about looking through the scope I said, &quot;There's no way in the world I can I said, &quot;We're going to have to take him to And she said, &quot;Well, will you take him to I said, &quot;Honey, I can't take that dog, my to the veterinarian, knowing that I'm taking If that dog looked at me from the side on I can't do that. I said, &quot;Look, some day this week, don't tell here at the study center when I least expect me when it's done.&quot; And three days later, I came home and Vesta She said, &quot;Hosie's dead. I had a student take him to the vet.&quot; That was my dog. It wasn't my son. See, I couldn't take my dog who was in misery, 15 minutes to be mercifully killed. God asked Abraham to take his son, his only journey with him for three days while the life suffering or threatening disease, and Christians, think about that! And the third day, Abraham raised his eyes said to his young men, &quot;You stay here with and we will worship and return to you.&quot; Oh, again, how people love to read that. &quot;See the faith of Abraham. He said, 'We're going to go, worship, and Abraham knew that everything was going to Baloney! What do you think Abraham's going to say to What do you think Abraham's going to say in &quot;Hey, you guys stay here and watch the animals and then I'll be back.&quot; Ha, ha...he's not going to do that. Finally, Isaac spoke to Abraham, his father. And he said, &quot;My father!&quot; And Abraham said, &quot;Here I am, my son.&quot; And Isaac said, &quot;Behold, the fire and the lamb for the burnt offering?&quot; &quot;Father, you cut the firewood, we've made make a sacrifice, but don't we have to have You forgot the most important thing.&quot; What's Abraham, what is he thinking when he's in his son's eye? Is he going to say to Isaac, &quot;I didn't bring And Abraham said, &quot;God will provide for himself Take the comma out of there. &quot;God will provide, God will provide the lamb My son is the lamb that God is going to provide So, the two of them walked on together and told him, and Abraham built the altar, arranged giving away. Isaac's helping him build the altar. Isaac's still looking around for this lamb Abraham's building the altar. Abraham's stacking the wood. I can see Isaac handing his father pieces And once he puts them up, and then Abraham his son and he puts him on the altar, and he binds him to the altar. How stupid is Isaac. The truth is dawning on him. He's looking at his father. His eyes are saying, &quot;How could you do this?&quot; Isaac is looking up from him. He sees his father pick up a knife. He looks up and he sees his father raise his Isaac is looking up. He's seeing the knife. He realizes that his father is going to plunge And just as Abraham is ready to bring the that the angel of the Lord called to him from Abraham stops right there and says, &quot;Here &quot;Here I am.&quot; And the angel said, &quot;Do not stretch out your Do nothing to him, for now I know that you son, your only son, from Me.&quot; And then Abraham raised his eyes and he looked, horns in the thicket. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered And Abraham called the name of that place Mount Moriah, where is it? According to current archaeology, Mount Moriah that later was changed, and its name was called The historic place where Abraham offered Isaac of the Rock in the old city of Jerusalem. Two thousand years later, on this same mountain he loved, Jesus. And He took him to that same mountain, and But this time, ladies and gentlemen, nobody God brought the knife into the heart of His time and in space, the promise that was dramatized of promise. God said, &quot;Abraham, I will provide the sacrifice. I will provide the lamb,&quot; so that two thousand in Palestine and called the whole nation to of God is coming.&quot; And while he was involved in this process the kingdom of God, he saw a man approaching was doing and he sang the Agnus Dei, he said, sin of the world.&quot; The lamb without blemish whom God has provided. His Son, His only Son, the One whom He loves,