This is a story that was reported in the New Thomas McLaughlin and Brandon Ryan were cousins. They grew up in rural California. Grew up together. Central Valley. They were working men. 2 years apart in age. In September 2009, Brandon Ryan bought a new He called Thomas, while in Colorado for a Brandon knew that his cousin wanted one of He wanted Thomas to come over to help with the truck. But Thomas said on the phone that he had had That he had to go to the doctor to get it He told his cousin that he wouldn't be able doctors. Well, they found, melanoma. He told Brandon that he'd need surgery to "Wow," Brandon said. "You have cancer?" We know if there's a painful lump under a lymph node metastasis. That's the tumor spreading in the body. Lymph node involvement is minimum stage 3 which were just approved at the time. Having some spread, means that the cancer skin, and entered the blood stream. The lymph node is the only the first place Depending on how advanced the disease is, the disease start spreading to other organs. And it looked like it had started spreading At his surgery, small tumors appeared all One showed up on his collar bone. One showed up on Thomas' triceps. Things didn't look good, but they looked under his armpit just a few months later too. He originally didn't take it seriously. He didn't think it was a big deal. But in the emergency room in Colorado, the And this was a later stage than his cousin, just in his right axilla, but they were found Both cousins had BRAF V600E mutated melanoma. Weren't sure if the cancer was somehow in and they were diagnosed at almost the same BRAF V600E is a mutation. More specifically, it's a single point mutation to the cell to reproduce, to send those reproduction The discovery of this mutation was a breakthrough were looking through genetic samples of different in many of them. In between the years 2002 and 2008, the BRAF It was modeled. And scientists were able to design specific, into an active site of the protein, to halt Viable drug candidates for testing were available were diagnosed. Because Thomas McLaughlin was diagnosed first, Now, during this time, the reality was that for metastatic melanoma. From the 1970s, there was chemotherapy called Cytotoxic compound that appears to be an alkylating to guanine bases of DNA. That's the G that you see in DNA sequences. Dacarbazine sucks. No one liked it in the 1970s. No one liked it in 2008. No one likes it today. But in 2008, it was still a standard of care In Europe, it was the only standard of care. In the United States though, there were some with cytokines. That is small proteins that signal to the These were approved for use in the 90s and EU didn't approve it for use. Now, the way that changes happen to medical What we do is that we take the current standard We select the relevant patients who would We put 1 group of patients to get the standard And a second group of patients on the experimental The experimental treatment has been vetted small numbers of human beings. We set an endpoint for when the trial should these medicines, and compare the two. In this process, there's a lot of things To control for bias, many times the treatment know whether they're getting standard of You may have heard of a placebo effect, that that they are getting treatment they quote Patients are also randomized to the different This is done to prevent preferential enrollment putting your friends on the experimental treatment, investigator genuinely hypothesizes that the If they don't, then why do the study? Right? So the trial for melanoma in 2009 done was In the setting of metastatic melanoma patients, drug that blocks V600E mutated BRAF. One group of patients will get the chemo. The other will get the targeted V600E drug. What will the trial measure? It will check the overall survival at 6 months. It will get a median progression free survival, the patients on the trial to progress in disease. Meaning their tumor gets bigger. More tumors start showing up. Et cetera. Then they checked for things like how many arm, and also how long it took for those patients So Thomas was diagnosed first. He was put on this trial first. Because it was randomized, they got the number And he was lucky enough to be on the targeted He didn't have to be on chemotherapy. This trial wasn't blinded because, the V600E Chemotherapy was an IV infusion. But if they're looking for survival, a placebo event to happen. "Dude, you have to get on these super pills" His primary tumor and metastases shrunk after Things were looking up. And anyway, Brandon was the one who had more When his time came to enroll on trial, he But as the number returned from the computer, He was assigned to chemotherapy. Up to this point in time, melanoma doctors They knew it worked in barely 5% of patients That less than half of people who are diagnosed While in America we may have had immunotherapy standard of care, it wasn't approved for No matter what, the main issue here, is that marginally better than doing nothing, then And when I say to finish, keep in mind, that people die. Because with the standard of care, we already of death before the 1 year anniversary of In this particular trial that Thomas and Brandon more than 90% of patients were still alive therapy. I mean, there was a good scientific rationale The drug was specifically designed to fit But survival at 4-5 months in the chemo arm, When the stakes are a chance of something even 1% is something that will cause many 90-75% is a discrepancy of 15% here. And so in this story reported by New York both with metastatic melanoma, the one with therapy, and the other one with stage 4 disease Chemotherapy that was known to have marginal Versus targeted therapy that had an unknown term benefits, along with a hot new scientific If just after a few months, we move everyone have a benchmark to compare to, to determine It would be a lot harder to say that this But if we run the whole experiment, we're What's a more reality-centered way to putting We're waiting for people to die to get data Now to be clear, had there been no advances it is true, all patients would have gotten as people had seen in the 40 years before But the introduction of a hopeful new compound a breakthrough discovery, changes things. So I hope you can see the problem here. The discovery should work. We don't know for sure. And it is true, that if we didn't have that But a reason, they would say, why we can't comparing to the standard in a controlled then we wouldn't be able to know for sure is actually providing long term benefit. But lets look at the reality. If any of these doctors' lives were on the I am going to be ok with a treatment with a 50% that by this time next year I won't Some might. But I know many others who wouldn't say So this brings me to the point to a future I'm going to be honest, I don't think in my lifetime. And the things I'm going to describe here of the year 2000 back in the 1800s. And, I may be totally wrong and none of these is going to change in the long term and it's problems that we're seeing now. Since we created the system of evidence based issues did not exist in the early 1900s, because Now, with a basis in evidence, that is high benefit, we've been able to achieve better In terms of number of people surviving from event. These are important to know because we can 20 years ago as standard of care. At the 1 year mark, 50% of patients were still At the 3 year mark, 2% of people were still But with the new medicine, we have 90% alive This is not comparing trial to trial, this who have this particular disease. We can measure these outcomes. And for people who are heavily focused on is that when you measure things, they get Longer survival. Decreased number of side effects. Higher quality of life. But the inherent problem to all of these is I survive with this medicine versus the other How many less side effects will I get with What happens if I get a different sickness use any of these medicines at all? And the question, will this medicine even Keep in mind, sometimes things don't work drug. These are all valid questions that can't because we can't compare a large sample At least we can't do that now. So I am going into opinion territory here. First, if you don't realize that today's System of Medicine in the year 2000," then to realize that you're the modern day equivalent Now with that said, yes, the methodology, today is the best that we can do today. I am not attacking the current system. I am saying that there's people in the far because they will have a fundamentally different fix some of the pressing problems we have But also in the process, they'll create will be on them to fix. The purpose of medicine is to restore normal The purpose of technology, unrelated to medicine, before, assuming they have normal function. If you think about it, these are mutually To put it another way, technology is here In the most extreme cases, technology enables an entire lifetime to do. It relieves us, for the most part, from mundane Medicine doesn't do that. The fundamental notion of needing medicine, and needs exogenous intervention in order It's not fun. It's not flashy. From the human aspect, in some cases having over yourself. You're hardly ever going to see a politician bedridden and ill. We've heard of kings who had psychological No one back then would have dared to draw imply a lack of control over one's facilities. That's why we sometimes struggle with patient When people are diagnosed with cancer, some control over their life, because it shattered thought was their future. When you ask someone where they think they'll "oh, im definitely going to have cancer," It's not built in to our notion of self. So medicine's purpose is a regain of function Whereas technology is here to enable people assuming they're at baseline normal function. Medicine is needed to live a human life. Tech is not necessarily needed to live a human People were functional two thousand years Some of the greatest scientists revered today the tech and instrumentation that we have So you can get by without having some tech. But in medicine, if you don't have it, you Those are the fundamental differences. But in the rare instances they do cross, both So, here's an analogy. Think of it like this, medicine is a tree. Technology is fire. The tree is protected by policies, and by The fire can't burn down the tree if it's But if something happens to the tree where can burn it down. This access would be lost in terms of popular of things. And after that, a bunch of little trees grow If medicine somehow loses the support of people, people to do things they couldn't otherwise And in the aftermath, you'll have some kind trees. So the analogy is this. At some point in the future, something is lot of people from our system in medicine. You can already see it during pandemic. The bureaucratic system, by design, will easily This is why people say that some of these in normal times, medicine seems to be time-independent. And when people's lives are on the line, go too far. At some point, it's going to lose support Try explaining how a clinical trial works I'm trying to do it right now. IF someone isn't inherently interested in And the reality is, I don't know exactly but it's probably going to be something Lots of people are going to die because of And that's what's gonna make people very When they withdraw that support AND we have going to see a system that makes today look Again, you need the self awareness to understand day plague doctors. Blood letters. Using leeches on patient. Which we still do by the way, on some surgical Lots of people today wouldn't be able to and the 1700s. One day, people won't be able to tell the So here are some of the problems that we have One. An individual doesn't know exactly if a Response rate isn't always 100%, 100% of An individual will not know how much better one. When you hear stories of people being told see this time next year, that's based on of disease. Some people do in fact, beat those numbers, people who did die, aren't alive to tell The second is that we're testing these drugs may not be directly applicable to you. If the trial was run in a bunch of men, but difference? Clinical experience says there's differences. So how can you generalize that data? A third problem is distribution. Some medicines are not easily accessible, They may not be able to physically access or because mail order distribution is flawed They may not be able to afford it. Their insurance won't pay for it and requires the administrator of the insurance doesn't generic name, which is an absolute disgrace. Fourth, it can be difficult to substitute patient develops a different disease that Take for example a cancer patient on PD1 checkpoint What happens if they get COVID19? While rare, both of these could cause cytokine This isn't an exhaustive list. There's more problems that can come up. But suppose these are on the top level. What technologies would need to be in place So, one of the first things that I think is give and administer the medicine to a physical Right now in today's world, there is no Don't get me wrong, I am well aware of that. But the question is, will there be something, would enable humans to be able to accurately Think about this, much of what we have done burden of hard, physical work on people. But in the case of medicine, people still In first-in-human studies, we're looking the medicine. Pharmacokinetic data is all collected during levels of medicine, metabolites, presence This first-in-human, human, has to bear the in the world has ever taken. We have an idea of what it can do because in animals. Mathematical models, that you find in literature They're usually physiologically based, pharmacokinetic These are subject and limited to the equations But we know the human body can't just be Different humans are going to have different How many of them would there be? I don't think it's enough to accurately And even if we do use PBPK models today, it's models during preclinical work. How would we be able to do this kind of accurate Well what if it was done like this. We simulate the body of a human with a given at that time. They might not even call them computers by We simulate the life of a specific person We can simulate them receiving some kind of That way, we can separate the reality of actually its risks, and prevent any possible tragedies. If the person dies from taking the medicine the person in real life. But we wouldn't just stop there. Why do one simulation? Assuming no limitations in resources, why thousand instances of that person to get a If we didn't have any limits on resources, for example, six thousand out of one hundred the simulation suffered a stroke as an adverse But inside, a total of 76,000 instances did If the model were really accurate, and the then we can say with certainty that the medicine person who is the one we modeled the simulation If this could be done in real time, then that for a person, with a given disease, using built off of that specific person. That eliminates problems of external validity today, and centers it around a single person. Now, that's provided we have the drug candidate But what if we didn't have one ready? Could we have a system upstream the process, candidates, based off of data we have from At that point in time, would it be genomic Epigenetic information? It may be some kind of metadata about humans So then to add to the system of running one we have an additional module that generates Based off of templates of existing medicines 10 compounds. For each of the 10, run 100,000 simulations Collect time-based data on each one of the efficacy, adverse events. But then, could we get the system to iterate Once a set has been completed, could the system compound, and then repeat the simulation, side effects. Could this be a variation on a genetic algorithm, and each subsequent generation of candidates survivors, of the previous generation, along then runs them for several subsequent generations. In this way, we are adding a random element of random instances of a single person. There would need to be many optimizations particular patient's needs, so I think using this may close people's thinking today on If we can get an accurate representation of could be arbitrary population based testing For example, if the evidence we have of a people, how could we have any validity of In today's world, we would probably do a different cohort. But that problem would be essentially eliminated And this would be truly, a system of personalized instances of the same person. It sounds like science fiction. But we're not taking any limits into account with a fundamentally different understanding limits that we have today. So to start thinking of what it could be like, have right now is the best, and we need to if we didn't have to physically test in But if we have a system like this, then that different medicines for essentially the same My diabetes control medicine would be different by a system that individualized it to us. How would we be able to deliver to each of by the system? Would there be a quote on quote "3D printer" a standard household item? Kind of like how a cell phone is typically But even then, some people don't have cell get the medicines, and that problem would So in going back to the problems that would 1) An individual would now know with high The response rate and efficacy would be ideally adverse events. 2) The generalized model would base events is, data gathered from a clinical trial, and that specific person. 3) The ability of the model to adapt to newly switch medicines at a later time should something that of the millions of instances generated like the events of reality would have been to find new potential candidates for the new 4) The distribution can be cared for using point in the future. And a system like this does additional things established. This is a decentralization of medicine and When I mentioned that when a clinical trial and we compare it to a new medicine. But what if, that standard of care is the one? We have that problem today. In some cases, the EU doesn't approve certain they may think that the benefit doesn't What if there is no standard treatment at in America. Should American regulators approve a drug on a non-American standard of care? Why should we? The converse should apply as well, if EU has they approve a medicine that's based on In some cases, people rag on pharmaceutical comparing a treatment versus nothing at all, treatment would do better. Why else would you do the trial if you didn't So it's not a fair match. But if there is a standard that is established clear that the experimental treatment would This proposed system eliminates that entirely, population data to one person. We don't need to guess what's going to The decentralization, at least at first, would lowest possible standard of care as a comparator benefits look better than with a standard Provided that the modeling is accurate, it trials, that have become used as a provider payers. And it can answer the question, will the medicine How well will it work. And what side effects can I reasonably expect Not only will those be answered, but those benefit, and minimized for the risk. We wouldn't need humans to bear the burden to obtain data, but we also wouldn't need data. And we wouldn't need to have to do things patients because of how a trial was designed. All of this bringing us back to Thomas McLaughlin In May 2010, Brandon Ryan was brought to UCLA His melanoma had spread to his spine and he At his randomization to the chemotherapy arm, right to play God? It doesn't make sense to say 'We want a chance at life." A week after his first chemo treatment, he own. His cousin Thomas offered to make him brownies They laughed. They joked about trucks while in the hospital. And at Brandon Ryan's funeral two weeks his hardhat in his coffin, and helped carry Thomas McLaughlin would keep fighting melanoma 12, 2014. BRAF V600E mono therapy did appear to extend mark. But longitudinal data showed that by around But keep in mind, that was likely because to convert over to subsequent therapy. What about that 54% who died in the first The later development was that we found out helps stem the tide of resistance that the They need to be used together. But it was around this time that more immunotherapy So one of the lessons that we learned from is really, I don't know, kinda not really to actually doing nothing, like in the case patients over to the experimental treatment? When is it a good enough time to say, you not be a good thing to do, given we already of care is. Obviously, a solution of a regulator allowing maybe too early could cause some problems, that the overall survival didn't really There was a short term benefit for sure. But a second MEK inhibition would be needed But at some point down the line, the system It will lend itself to be too rigid. It will lose support of the people, and anger And if the right technology is available at could be burned down, and started anew. And while it will create it's own set of today, look like how we look at medieval medicine This is the best that we have today, like And although our fundamental understanding the system that I described, when we get there, we have. And I hope that humans appropriately recognize Take care of yourself. And Be Well.