In the past couple hundred years, we've called a as the 1830s, when Poland rebelled against the revolution that technically took place in You then have the creation of the Weimar and most recently we had the 1989 Velvet in Czechoslovakia, the same But I'm here to talk about November of 1974. resignation of Richard Nixon just a few months Ford, were a slaughter for Republicans. securing the 2/3rds majority that would allow them the nearly 50 years since it remains the largest one calls this the November Revolution of 1974. event. Physics is about to experience a we're unlikely to see anything like it ever again. in agreement that atoms were made up of three surrounded by a fuzzy cloud of electrons. was just combinations of these three ingredients. that maybe there was a level even deeper than the made up the protons and neutrons. Quarks, as they Up, down and strange. And despite some quark model, it was still up for debate whether useful mathematical concepts that helped experiments. Sure, they fixed a few problems applied to what was a huge whole in the jigsaw an unexpected result off the California coast. working on their newest $6 million toy. A tunnel is a very expensive tunnel in which electrons and at high speeds in the hope that they'll explode when a breakthrough is made, everyone assumed weren't even looking for a new particle. And yet seven zeptoseconds, with an energy of 3 billion down or even strange quark. This was something quark appearing in tandem with its antimatter a 4th quark had been proposed before, but never charm as its now called, the band-aid could come Richter had wanted to name the hybrid particle but his coworkers didn't like that name. So letters were still available. Iota was free, but insignificant, which felt counterintuitive So in the end he settled on Psi. Later they would spark chamber. A spark chamber is a stack of high When a high energy particle passes through it, the And somehow, the spark trail was the exact shape is crazy. That a particle was named, and very But this wasn't the coincidence I mentioned side of the country, a group is working out of Leading the team was Samuel Ting, and with their they had stumbled onto the exact same J. As the story he goes he chose J because it's in his own name. Other stories behind the name choose a personal favourite story, it's that On the 11th of November, Ting flew to Stanford paths with Richter. When both men excitedly told soon realized there were talking about the same discovery of J/Psi. It's astounding that such an such a short period of time. For this reason officially recognized names. But we don't call it We call it that because it pointed the whole field discoveries. That same year, Jean Iliopoulos be the first ever edition of the standard model still missing some critical pieces. And you know can still kind of infer what it should look like. outer ring we call the Fermions, AKA the matter note that you'll never find one of these on their Only three years after the discovery of charm, was found. This new one was named the bottom partner quark was also out there, waiting to but elusive, top quark had begun. Gotta tell On the other side here we have the leptons. alone in the wild. They consist of the electron, electricity. Less well known are its big sibling even bigger sibling, tau. Each of these the neutrinos. One of them is still just Moving on inward we have another class of because they're *firm*, then bosons make up the for this one. The photon you've probably heard of, thank Einstein for that one. At the tail end of it's responsible for gluing together quarks to are still missing in action. You have the W and Z and decay. Their existence was so certain though, won a Nobel prize. And that's about all there is those who proposed another boson, one that would and this field would explain the origin of mass. and thus its time in the spotlight will come this was the state of the standard But something was becoming clear. To make the technology needed to catch up first. energy needed to produce it. They needed bigger joint announcement, Burton Richter and Samuel they had after all jointly accepted a Nobel prestige of the Nobel ceremony, this occasion was the announcement is being made for what will States history. It would be the particle physics was to find the holy grail of particle physics. to be called the final frontier. But today we've whose infinitesimal constellations hold out may question the practical applications of the the practical applications of this knowledge face of ever increasing global competition, edge in science and technology, and building is a visible symbol of our nation's Within 5 years the project will have completely in the realm of particle physics. Burton of high energy physics' greatest failures". I'm What it doesn't have, is a happy ending. This that it's hard to put into words. Instead, I If I gave you a rock, and asked you to describe to fancy tools, what would you do? Personally, I'd At some point humans realized that the best is to smash it open. And if it's a rock or an we wanted to break apart something small, specialized gear. Hence, particle accelerators. a collider, consists of three main components. that is held at vacuum, and at temperatures close be travelling through. 2. A set of ultra-strong ring is surrounded by equally spaced magnets, and the ring. Additionally, you have a specific the particles once every loop. Like a booster in the particles have approached the speed of region usually contains an advanced detector that Think blood splatter analysis, only real. Modern stages. With linear injecting segments, multiple of a rocket. But by and large, accelerators and we use them to get really really tiny Because collisions release a ton of energy, and iconic equation: E = mc^2. So, if you want to and larger machines. And for the past two decades, when it comes to building accelerators. 5 quarks and 2 leptons were discovered in Revolution. At the turn of the 1980s, the US was over in California where we met our buddy with our buddy Ting, as well as Cornell a little was the crown jewel of the America's particle in the outskirts of the Windy City of Chicago. The 1. TeV is short for tera-electron volts, or a collision energy the machine is capable of funny to name expensive scientific instruments and state of the art superconducting magnets, the the energy barrier from GeV to TeV. That was the to get filled in, the missing puzzle pieces were the W and Z bosons, and maybe, just maybe, the decorated army of physicists, wanted to be the Now consider how many accelerators existed in the straddling the French and Swiss borders, and DESY all to themselves. And finally, the rookies on the lab. (I swear that is the actual name). You may the world's major accelerators. And for a while But as the 1980s rolled around, this was turning physics had to be split between 4 labs that varied them competitive would require multiple ongoing slimmer. The fear was that Europe's consolidation the lead. CERN was already digging a tunnel for collider, or LEP. With a diameter of 8.6 making Fermilab's 2 km look quaint. physicists would have to 1-up CERN. Instead of 4 should be a new giant lab. All the eggs in one held over and over again, with dreams of a VBA. by Leon Lederman, then the director of Fermilab, bottom quark. Generally considered the godfather be the project's biggest cheerleader in the years until 1982, at a conference in Snowmass Colorado. gargantuan American collider that would be with a loop diameter of 30 km or higher. This was to go along with it, and thus would require an and empty. The hypothetical machine was therefore CERN announced the discovery of the W and Europe had taken the lead in the boson race. With sponsored panel was organized, and the American The Superconducting Super collider. A machine so 'super' twice. Rough estimates pegged the cost of going by 2021 US dollars. Now look, I get that basically meaningless without a reference frame. the height, the more expensive it is. We have billion. The most expensive stadium ever built, at at $7.5 billion. For a little mobile flavour bomber at $2.43 billion, and the most expensive $13 billion. For some scientific comparisons we the Human Genome project at $5 billion, GPS Telescope coming in at a hefty $13.5 billion. projects of the 20th century, the Panama canal? doing too bad considering this thing may or But still, there was only one way they were going taxpayer. And to be clear, each of America's same way! But each of these had a comparatively Look at em! Little baby machines. Don't get me of money. But when it comes to taxpayer funded that starts with an 'm' vs a price tag that starts built during a period of American history that was How do I put this...? Ever since they dropped supplanted itself ahead of Europe to become one thanks to that very same atom bomb, America took world war 2, nuclear and particle physicists have to other subfields in physics. With the successful clocked in at around $30 billion in today's money, would manage any future research into nuclear creation of the Atomic Energy Commission, or AEC. of operating largely out of the public eye, only on Atomic Energy, at meetings that were always nuclear physicists were given blank cheques to the pretense that their research was advancing into two camps over this. On the one hand you and Harold Agnew who actively championed the were more than happy to enjoy the money they were physicists who didn't much care for the war and willing to look the other way if it meant getting It's how the sausage got made, and no one But this age of scientific free reign was about of the 60s led to harsh criticism of the reactor safety, and had a laissez faire attitude Congress was so fed up with the lack of in 1974. The 1970s as a whole were a time of rocked by the Watergate scandal, and America's industries was waning, leading to Europe and Japan Middle-East had led to a global oil crisis, In response to this, President Jimmy The Department of Energy, the DOE. The DOE into a variety programs, such as solar power, all nuclear responsibilities, peaceful or created department. No longer would their the DOE would be subject to the whims of congress Projects. The age of the nuclear physicists always compete for funding like every other subfield. meager $52 million to begin R&amp;D in 1984. But if they had to get some key people in Washington on The SSC only got off the ground due to an alliance scientific project of this scope, both in physical accelerators funded by the US government, this dollar threshold. In fact it was projected to it was not going to be able to quietly funded particular, it needed the stamp of approval Ronald Reagan quotes often associated with the meeting on January 29th of 1987. At the end, when he was told that his decision would make "a lot probably fair, because I made two physics teachers quote gives a little more insight into Reagan's the merits of funding the project, he reportedly and went on to recite a poem by Jack London. "I for about a minute. In a moment that is very room with him were unclear what he was trying to which he pulled from his days spent as a to "throw deep". It was time for a Hail Mary. of all people, would be so enthusiastic about a abstract and with almost no short term economic "throw deep" perfectly encapsulates Ronald It took nearly 6 years of delicate political to get Reagan to throw deep with the It was like playing political whack-a-mole, every they'd either retire or get promoted, only to project. But eventually, they'd managed to sway First was George Keyworth, a nuclear physicist Eventually he was joined by Alvin Trivelpiece, He did a lot of leg-work to eventually get Energy. And Herrington was finally high enough fateful cabinet meeting, where Trivelpiece All of this is especially remarkable, given one of his first acts was to try and shut the DoE actively made promises to do just that. The big government overreach he villainized through slashed programs left and right and began to to all the renewable energy and synthetic fuel. he removed the solar panels Carter You can see just how little Reagan cared about it. Throughout Reagan's 8 years in office he would uniquely unqualified. His first pick was a Donald Hodel was closer, as an ex he's most remembered for his proposed solution to try and fix it, but rather suggesting His final Secretary was John Herrington, a Now, hindsight has painted Reagan as anti-science. be pro science. After some small cuts in his first funding for federal research &amp; development came with a big fat asterisk. Reagan was As you might be aware, the Department of Energy with completely gutting it. And it's likely department's true purpose. The DOE handles the almost everything in the DoE was cut, the nuclear massive increases. But let's visualize this in Well, they aren't actually mountains, they're Now obviously this is on a different If I put them on the same scale everything would the aesthetic, but also to give you a sense of Reagan bump, or Mount Gipper as I like to call it, that came immediately before and after it. US military history. Reagan was intent on winning Soviets in every area they could. And while most and equipment, an ever increasing amount of it high tech weapon systems. Before Reagan, if you military, military comes in at just 47%. Under up to a whopping 74%. Three quarters of all for military purposes. Take it from "those areas that are most exciting and those should be supported at a higher level than particle physicists, there was an upside. One of the search for the W and Z bosons over in Europe. also a firm believer that the government had the low-level physics and chemistry. Recognizing that many years down the line the research would and the influence of Alvin Trivelpiece, funding under Reagan. If a few Americans could win some Other fields of science were not so lucky, and teacher's pet of the US government. Less flashy energy, medicine, saw their budgets stagnate due cuts. In the eyes of the Reagan admin they were responsibility of private industry, the invisible you can't discuss Reagan underfunding science the AIDS crisis, which lead to millions of and criticism from gay rights activists and a commission to deal with the AIDS crisis he selected Admiral James D. Watkins to be in his appointment was widely criticized, He was after all, a devout Catholic who supported Despite what you might expect, Watkins took in funding for research, improved sexual health who considered the disease an act of god. In anti-discrimination laws for those suffering from of 7-to-6. Reagan would go on to ignore most didn't say so publicly, behind the scenes Watkins But there was only one thing that Reagan loved Throughout the 80s, NASA's budget was either actuality, Reagan was pumping plenty of money department. The department of defense. See NASA Military space funding simply falls under and its space division far outpaced the projects, Reagan had a knack for betting on and never saw the light of day. For example, where he said the words free and freedom 25 times, the ludicrously named Space Station Freedom. This civilian-based orbiting research lab until demanding that it could at any point, carry out and without the permission of any of the other nations would not be allowed to "displace either surprise you that other nations were reluctant to was never able to get off the ground, underwent ultimately being scrapped in 1993. Another of Space Plane, a hypersonic plane that could take also deliver satellites into space. After spending and the technology was considered unworkable. the most ridiculous of all of these was an outer was nicknamed Star Wars. It never saw the X-ray laser technology that hadn't been invented missile defense system was pure science fiction, obsession killed the 1986 nuclear disarmament space laser so much that he walked away from what Throughout its life-cycle Star Wars wasted nearly completely. But to hear it from Reagan's top entirely wastes of time. See, these lofty science hindsight, but so long as the USSR thought they continue to sink billions of dollars they didn't hopefully one day bankrupting them. And to the collapse of the Soviet Union. But on the led to a massive deficit that would follow So with all this context, it should be obvious George Keyworth knew that Reagan had a personal and ambitious, and thus worked hard to pitch the But whereas those projects helped probe the the opposite end of the spectrum: Inner space. clumsily adding subtext, it was the specific the SSC as a way to reassert American dominance. the SSC, Secretary Herrington stated that the SSC "putting a man on the moon". And in a lot of ways For one, the US did not win the space race, let's Soviet Union to every conceivable milestone.] It with a high chance of failure, was the US able to they won the space race. This was an approach Bold big advancements, where they would leapfrog with the Soviet Union when it came to space, their Europe. American projects aimed for the stars, miles ahead of the slower, less ambitious and Europe's accelerators were far more likely to work meant that throughout the 60s and 70s, the US had was very much following this template, a bold leap it was also very risky, years of R&amp;D would be with stable geology that could handle years of the kind of gamble that Reagan loved to make. of CERN, Herwig Schopper, testified in front of the SSC and join up with Europe. They were in collider, the LEP. He argued that there was Even better, they were specifically making the to upgrade it 10 years down the line, to an even But despite this open invitation, or maybe even America would regain its dominance in particle there were concerns within the academic community Supremacy could deter other countries from seemed to understand the reality that this was the board. This will absolutely not come back to haunt Meet Maury Tigner. Maury has been toiling away When the DOE approved an initial Maury was picked to lead the planning team out of the community as one of the brightest minds in Cornell's accelerator. The DOE was impressed and also by how he inspired loyalty in his team. in a field with so many conflicted voices, the become the full-time leader of the R&amp;D. With dozen million in funding, a small enough amount Like I mentioned previously, accelerators are thousands of ultra strong magnets, and a series much later in the project's life. The key criteria the tunnel loop going to be, and B. How were they is really a three-way compromise between the size, the loop as small as we could, because tunneling the same time, if we want a smaller loop, we need And these weren't just any magnets, they were Niobium-Titanium magnets, which meant that to to be held at temperatures barely above absolute 4.35 degrees above absolute zero, the magnets usually followed by a rapid surge of heat that can all these reasons, each magnet would likely cost need nearly around 8000 of them. So to summarize: strength, the size of the collider is really the the middle of all this was the sweetspot, Early in 1984, there were reports from CERN This turned out to be not the case, but the false CERN kept bragging that their eventual the SSC needed to go above and beyond that to and political reasons, Tigner's group decided would have a diameter of 30 km, nearly 3 times the SSC would absolutely find the top quark, They estimated a 9 year project length, 3 for full costs was updated to $7.5-8.3 billion, on the soliciting a number of different magnet proposals they settled on a magnet that could operate at This magnet won out over a design by a group from choice ultimately came down to the size of the the loop's diameter would nearly double in size, But here's where the drama comes in. The saying there was no way the R&amp;D team could Now whether their design would have been any right when they predicted that Tigner and his The prototypes were a mess. Way over budget consistently quenched before achieving the target so strong that the magnets would literally tear generating heat that ruined the superconductivity. that ate up much of the R&amp;D budget. In the its estimated cost had ballooned significantly. By 84, $8 billion. By 85, $10.7 billion. were being thrown around. It had doubled in all while the federal deficit had been growing tougher and tougher budget restrictions, and if to have to approve them. To stave off any cuts, promise that nearly 30-50% of project funding there had been no eager volunteers. Weird that project marketed as an America-first project with this definitely isn't an omen of things to come. congress denied funding to begin construction out $230 million for more R&amp;D. The budget was would've liked. Construction would have to wait Behind the scenes, the project had just narrowly momentum for years. The SSC hit its first in a shockingly negligent oversight, the location-search task force. During their travels bill of $19 million, which wasn't accounted for in who was in charge of the search committee, Instead, he was insistent that the $19 million which put Maury Tigner in one of the worst through the fiscal year which meant that R&amp;D had the purchasing of superconducting wire, and Tigner to cut. And when I mean cut, I actually Tigner as you might expect, refused to do that, also because he'd be laying people off who had no comfy university positions to come work for him. a months long process with no guarantee you'll be over, with no guarantee they'd even want to rejoin their peak on a particularly nasty Friday the to deliver a list of names to fire that same Disaster was thankfully averted by lunch, when committee had finally allowed DOE to take the his ground, and saved his employees, and likely victory. But Tigner's refusal to give into DOE joined the project, he was viewed as a highly labelled as someone who didn't follow orders, and Out of the blue, the DOE would receive an Goldwasser, a high ranking member of the R&amp;D team. was the logical organization to manage both the lab. Now the URA, for context, is the Universities of nearly 90 Universities, which operates the US's which at the time, was home to the world's that URA should be sole-sourced to manage the new Was it acceptable to award such a big contract a proposal? Or should the DOE wait, and have a And in fact, Alvin Trivelpiece actually brought DOE officials, and supposedly, one of those himself) had a pen in hand, ready to sign had to be resolved right this second. Trivelpiece And it stayed that way for months. Eventually, and the project had lost its last remaining key URA sent in a slightly revised proposal for a James Decker, wasn't a confirmed political the proposal up the food-chain. Again, poor timing wasn't until August 1988 that DOE officially put But the deadline was only 3 months away, wayyyy the only group that could meet a deadline like proposal. In essence, the DOE was telling the URA a bunch of egghead scientists to do it on their additional bureaucratic hoops, to show that they First, they wanted the URA to bring in the construction, and secondly, they wanted them So, the URA begrudgingly complied, submitting billion dollar proposals commonly found in proposal brought on Sverdup Corp. and EG&amp;G Inc. construction of the facilities, and the latter and scientific instruments. The physicists at of the military industrial complex, but they knew This would prove to be a very delicate the time being it would get the ball rolling. contractors, things were about to get a lot more This pick would determine the person who and likely many years afterwards. But there was a confidential government proposal, and what that for a director, as that would violate governmental they were worried about the science equivalent of search in secret, severing their connection to Dozens of names were thrown around for the were Burton Richter and Samuel Ting. Maury Tigner of this at the time. Even Alvin Trivelpiece resigned from his position at the DOE to avoid a ups were Leon Lederman, director of Fermilab director of Brookhaven. But the winning candidate Burton Richter and had played a key role in the one of Fermilab's major experiments. It had given which was not something that most physicists could were his skills as a communicator. He was the exact kind of person who could convince was the tycoon archetype, someone who could goal. A politician, to be frank about it. that Schwitters wrote in Politics Today, that So with a director chosen, URA finally drafted up the government. Directly under Schwitters you Helen Edwards would serve as head of the as director of laboratory administration, and also a real name) was selected for As the deadline drew near, the original 14 page 6 inch thick proposal. As one executive put it: the proposal was submitted. And, as many expected, this entire time, been the only organization and after a year and a half of bureaucratic And yet...the day the management contract was made up his mind months ago. Before even a single the management chain had left. It seems there had group and the incoming URA management team. Maury was the obvious choice for director, at partially blindsided by the selection process, conflict of interest. In the end Maury was passed impatient with non-physicists, overly blunt at and he was considered the best man to build the more adept at wooing the Washington bigwigs who To comfort a disappointed Maury, he was named negotiate their respective roles. However, these fraught, with Maury never satisfied. Schwitters couldn't be bridged. "It was clear he wanted couldn't be guaranteed. He had a very specific not the deputy director, then perhaps the project ideal for him. It was less front-facing than the and far more technical know-how. Well, according would not be acceptable as project manager". Ever him a troublemaker, and persona non-grata. going back home to Cornell. When Tigner left staff who worked beneath him. Thus many of those were simply gone from the project. Those peppered throughout the project in mid-level than they previously had. The selection of departure was the first sign that big physics was academics give free-reign. Now it was the age of to bureaucracy and micromanagement. This split in to worse clashes down the line. Maury Tigner and he won't be the last. But for now, it was time While the selection of the URA and Roy Schwitters was a far more interesting contest playing out. of timeline there was a strong push to have the would allow Reagan to be able to leave office in accomplishment he could claim as his own after 8 In April of '87 the site selection contest was to scientists, it wasn't exactly going to appeal average state politician. So, instead of marketing as a job creation machine. Specifically, one that 4,500 permanent lab jobs, as well as a guaranteed votes, simple as that. And with that, the grand attention of nearly every state in the nation. deadline rolled around, the Department of Energy 50 states. Of these, 7 were outright rejected including one that was pitched to be in it failed to meet the very first site condition. the US/Canada border was also rejected. This site contest, and honestly had a lot going for New York and southern Quebec, much like how CERN alone would have mitigated concerns about the SSC could have led to broader international support. massive electricity savings because of the nearby the proposal was thrown out by Secretary about the site being entirely within the US. but rather the outright rejection that would go But even more, the rejection greatly distressed in particular, Republican Sherwood L. Boehlert. A more intense 2nd round of evaluations further 8 finalists, which were announced in December of Illinois (Fermilab), Michigan (Stockbridge), Tennessee (Murfreesboro), and Texas (Waxahachie). First, there were accusations of favouritism. This Herrington's home state of California hadn't made is far too susceptible to earthquakes. A slightly wealthier states. See, the DOE had made a big be considered in initial rounds, as they wanted they feared would happen was a bidding war, where offer state funding as an incentive, leaving So for that reason a coalition of smaller states be submitted in a sealed envelope, and only opened was a farce, because many state legislatures they were offering over a billion dollars in state pretend like that hadn't heard or seen any of it. term support of the project. Marketing the science machine had enormous short term benefits. enthusiastic proposals vying for those tantalizing from consideration, almost overnight, their the project, to loudly complaining that the SSC was monopolizing the bulk of the nation's science a science machine, because now the rhetoric and how we should instead be funding several this should have been an obvious conclusion. Only and therefore, those oh so valuable jobs. finalists, New York Governor Mario Cuomo withdrew Apparently there had been strong local opposition large city center. Now, with the sole exception of were all extremely rural, with far fewer people project. Each of the remaining sites had their own to displace 4 families, compared to the hundreds had the best geology for cheaper tunneling. Texas, good variety of industrial infrastructure nearby. forgone conclusion. The contest was just a impression of political fairness. Fermilab, the best choice for the site. Chicago was no It had been the winner of a 1966 site selection and to beat a dead horse here, it was home The Tevatron. With Fermilab already constructed, existing lab infrastructure, and the hiring with ample housing and universities right advocated by Nobel Laureate James Cronin, was that at 4 particle accelerators labs, not 5. He argued to support 2 accelerator labs. Going from 4 labs During a weeklong retreat, the task force wrote and they submitted their report to the DOE Secretary Herrington made the final call. wh-what? What do you mean Texas? That was scientific community. And if tensions weren't much less surprising result, George H.W Bush had campaign. There was soon going to be a Texan in an ethics investigation from the US Government The real reason that Fermilab lost out to Texas is In evaluating the 7 finalists, there were two had been judged according to four categories. On Texas received Outstanding ratings, the highest Fermilab only received a Good rating, whereas fourth and final category where everything fell a Poor rating, the only finalist state to receive finalists, only Fermilab was situated in what was resistance within the local communities due noise pollution, and increased traffic. minority. CATCH-Illinois was a protest group who SSC expansion. They argued absurd claims that production, despite the fact that this is not the and also Fermilab had been operating a and hadn't had any negative impacts on the driven partly because of the enormous nuclear as well as the Chernobyl disaster from a couple at its most influential. But it wasn't just so the fact that CATCH-Illinois had specifically for 35 years". Worried that the DOE wouldn't construction, the Fermilab site was considered of Poor. As for the Texas site, located just south only location to receive 4 Outstanding ratings. to nearly everyone in the academic Richard Lundy, a physicist at Fermilab, made a them to write down three predictions. 2. URA would be granted the management contract. He was now two for three. And exactly 5 years But until then, plans marched on. The crown jewel And you know what they say.