Andjobe presents China. May 2023. The epidemic of the zombievirus has covered Deterrence measures are ineffective. Panic gripped the country. The UN troops suffered heavy losses due to In the rear, new outbreaks of the disease of encirclement. The surviving units are gradually retreating The troops of the Chinese army holding the the ranks of zombies headed to the city of Ten million people were in danger. Hospitals in many large cities, where people source of the spread of the disease. As soon as the connection with the strongholds on them. The inability to control panicked people forced the following regions of CHINA: Hubei, Henan. According to some reports, more than 80 million of zombies. These territories were recognized as irretrievably any biological species for 100% isolation Armored vehicles line up in barrage formations, at this time aircraft and artillery deliver This helped to break up and detain hordes populated areas, but did not stop the spread Armored vehicles continued to slowly move they meet on their way, civilians, military, The troops of Western China are holding their ground at the foothills of the Tibetan mountains with great success. It's unknown why, but strong winds and low temperatures emanating from Tibet are greatly impeding the zombie hordes' advance to the west. To the East of Xi'an, on the most vulnerable section of the front zombies were heading North towards the Great Wall of China The army lacked the strength to stop their advance, and the armored units had run out of ammunition and fuel. In a hurry, the inhabitants of Gansu and Ningxia provinces were sent to build a southern extension of the Great Wall to prevent the zombies from flanking them. The Great Wall of China is an excellent barrier against the zombie's northern movement. In the province north of the wall, a mobilization has begun to defend China. . Mongolia has offered its assistance and united its forces to send troops. *Mongolia* The day has come when Mongolia will show the world its greatness! Let's show these disgusting zombies whose horde is stronger. But, sir. Why do we need bows? And horse is not even real... Silence! These are the attributes of Great Mongolia! We honor our ancestors. Forward! The Wall is close. I think he's crazy... That's why I brought normal weapons... and... a truck. The Great Khan and his horde has arrived to conquer.... Uhm... defend our... tsk.... I mean Your Wall. Great! Please, follow me! The Central Gates are open, and we continue to receive refugees. The zombies are not too many; they were spotted here, here, and over here. Our frontline forces are managing to eliminate the threat so far. Engineers are setting up barbed wire and minefields, while snipers keep watch over the rocky terrain to prevent any sneak attacks. The Mongolian forces arrived just in time. We've stationed them in the most vulnerable areas where we lacked our own fighters Two 50mm machine guns are mounted on towers, and one is at the gate. Recently, the engineering corps sent us ten 120mm mortars, and the Mongolians brought a cannon. It may not be much, but we have enough ammunition for them. I think we can hold out. Do you think we're going to make it or not? With this... It's hard to say Haha, now this is the territory of the Great Horde!... And China, of course. Zombiiiiieees... zombies at the walls. Asia is ablaze, with China struggling to contain the infected Japan, an island nation that offered hope for salvation, has also been hit by the zombie virus. The first outbreaks of infection in Japan were reported on the island of Kyushu, n the cities of Kumamoto, Fukuoka, and Kitakyushu. Due to the active spread of the virus in Kitakyushu residents of the island were cut off from the rest of the country and could not be evacuated by land. Bridges were destroyed and guards were stationed along the entire shore north of the city. The artillery conducted intense shelling of the coastline. Later on, the Japanese Navy closed all sea ports to prevent further spread of the disease. Infected individuals from Kumamoto actively moved into the forests to cultivate a new horde of zombies. Soldiers in Sasebo are on high alert. The city is fortified and all residents are locked in their homes. We have taken preemptive action to activate Mt. Aso to flood the valley with lava, eliminating the first wave of zombies. Due to the eruption of the volcano, extensive fires broke out in the forests in the south of the island. This greatly reduced the zombie population and partially failed their goal of growing a new horde. To the north of the volcano, zombies were able to grow a new offspring and some of them headed towards the city of Kurume, where military forces were sent for protection. What the hell is going on here? Hey, look... hey Alright, gentlemen. We need to organize defense in this sector. Move it! You two, head up the street for lookout duty. We need to know when the zombie horde arrives. Commander! Do you know what's happening here? Zombie outbreak! We've been ordered to establish a stronghold and hold our positions for as long as possible. I recommend you stay with us. A couple of extra hands won't hurt. Millions of zombies from China are heading towards India through Myanmar To prevent the infection of the two billion people living in India, Myanmar, Laos, and Vietnam decide to set up an outpost to cut off the horde's path and give India time to strengthen its defense., Well, while the zombies are still few in number, we need to establish an outpost . I suggest clearing the forest in this area and building walls from materials we can use. While the walls are being built, send advance squads to set up sandbags and barbed wire This way, we can hold out for some time. We need to build platforms on the trees and make bridges between them. This way, the zombies won't be able to reach us. Remember, behind us is Hanoi, where our mothers and children are. Make sure zombies will never get there. Why aren't you shooting?!?!?! - Damn it! It's jammed! God, there are so many of them, I don't think we'll last long Give me more ammo Status check. Come in. Are you still alive? We're done here, you can retreat behind the walls. Well, finally. Attention Everyone! Retreat behind the walls! *see you in africa* coming soon to be continued! Subscribe!