Recently, Nintendo unveiled their Previously, if you uploaded game it would usually be copyright claimed by Nintendo. Technically, they have every legal right &quot;Why?&quot; Most other game companies allow you to use their game footage and see it as free advertising. With the Nintendo Creator Program, with the content creator. Extending an olive branch, if you will. However, the rules and regulations of and many people think the whole program is one Now, is it a mistake? I think so. But their BIGGEST mistake? Hardly. I love Nintendo. It's my favorite but even I'll admit that they have So I thought, today, let's look at the top three What is the Virtual Boy? Well, Nintendo wasn't really sure. Nintendo treated the system as and hoped that it would revolutionize the Instead, the Virtual Boy was a complete disaster. It had ugly colors, tons of health warnings... and a steep price tag. Only 22 games were ever made for the Virtual Boy and Nintendo spent a ton of money developing It was discontinued in less than a year and is one of the worst-selling While that alone is embarrassing enough, There aren't any concrete details, but it's widely believed that the was strained after the failure of the Virtual Boy. He quietly left Nintendo after 31 years of service. Yokoi was a Nintendo legend, having previously developed the Just a year after leaving, he died in a car accident. It's fair to wonder what Yokoi had he stayed on with Nintendo. This was a tough inclusion, as I love the But Nintendo's decision to stick with and ultimately hurt the company in the long run. Nintendo's mindset was that cartridges eliminate load times and reduce pirating. Developers felt different. Making a game on the Nintendo 64 would be a gamble. Each cartridge cost them $10 to produce and had to be purchased through Nintendo. If the game didn't sell well, CD based games, on the other hand, cost less than a dollar to produce and didn't have to be purchased CDs could also hold a lot more to implement full-motion video and digitized audio. Nintendo didn't budge. Their plan backfired. Nintendo's relationship with third- following strict rules and regulations But this was the final straw. Many third-party developers The most famous: Squaresoft. The company moved where it became a huge success and reinvigorated the RPG genre in North America. Besides that, Nintendo 64 games were sometimes For the first time ever, Nintendo did not The Sony PlayStation sold over 100 million units... while the Nintendo 64 sold about 32 million units. The effects of this decision can still be seen today, as third-party support on current Nintendo consoles is lacking compared to others. Oddly enough, the PlayStation is And probably their biggest. In 1988, Nintendo and Sony announced a joint as well as an audio chip for their next console. They eventually worked out a plan to develop a game and CD-ROM games, dubbed &quot;The Play Station.&quot; But as the system was getting Nintendo grew paranoid. Sony would have complete control including licensing and manufacturing. They feared Sony would use the console Nintendo secretly made a deal with Sony's rival, Philips, to develop a CD-based add-on for the Super Nintendo. Nintendo would retain all the rights they would allow Philips to use Nintendo At the Consumer Electronics Show in 1991, Sony announced their plans for the PlayStation. The very next day, Nintendo and announced they were working Nintendo completely humiliated Sony. In response, they formed Sony Computer Entertainment and began plans to release the They removed the Super Nintendo cart reader, and the space in the name, and released the Sony PlayStation a few years later. As for Nintendo, the CD-based add-on But Philips was still able to use They were embarrassingly bad and Nintendo refuses to Essentially, Nintendo's debacle with Sony which makes it the biggest For more information on the Virtual Boy, I actually did a full video on it, so you As for the Nintendo PlayStation, there's a lot more to talk about, I'm sure you have a differing opinion so if you do, leave your top That's all for this episode of Gaming Historian. Thanks for watching!