Cyprus has been at the crossroads of civilizations for millennia and is one of the most diverse and captivating places in the Mediterranean. Located on the edge of Europe, the island has been shaped by Its complex recent history means the country is divided into two parts, For the traveler, Cyprus offers a wealth of historic sites, spectacular architecture, lively urban centers, stunning natural landscapes, incredible food, and friendly people. In this video, I'm traversing Cyprus, on one of the most From the fascinating streets of capital Nicosia to charming From the walled city of Famagusta to the lively historic port of Kyrenia. From ancient archaeological sites in Pafos and Kourion From the striking Kykkos monastery to the ruins of Saint Hilarion Castle. And from the seafront promenade of modern Limassol to the rugged coastal scenery of Cape Greco national park. So join me, exploring the magnificent island of Cyprus. We begin our journey in Nicosia, the intriguing and bustling capital city of Cyprus. It's the island's most important financial and business hub, First settlements date back some 4,500 years, and slowly grew into Today, it's known by many as the last divided capital city in the world, symbolizing Cyprus' complicated political situation. We start exploring Nicosia in the Southern part, known Wandering the narrow alleyways of the historic center feels like stepping back in time. Contrasts are visible at almost every corner, as Greek Orthodox churches, both historic and modern, all within the spectacular Venetian City walls. Don't miss the Ledra shopping street, popular with both locals which marks the beginning of the modern part of Nicosia. The streets are wider here, and the buildings taller, making it a very different area to visit. From busy corner cafes and restaurants to vibrant farmers markets, it provides a great insight into daily life in the city. As you make your way through Nicosia, you often notice streets These form the start of the so called 'Green Line', or UN Buffer Zone that separates the Southern from the Northern part of the city. After gaining independence (from Britain) in 1960, Cyprus experienced some violent years, and was eventually divided into a Southern Greek and Northern Turkish Cypriot part. The Greek side is now member of the EU, while the Turkish The border crossing is relatively straightforward, and these days Many people have friends and families living across the border, That said, the Northern part feels distinctly different, with a noticeable Turkish influence. Smells of fresh bread and baklava welcome you after the crossing, It's fascinating to explore the alleys here, absorbing the sights From small bazaars selling groceries and souvenirs, to the captivating Buyuk Han, a beautiful example of Ottoman caravanserai I'm now walking through some more residential areas, a bit further away from the center of this part of Nicosia. It's a very different atmosphere. Many of the houses are a Beautiful nonetheless. Other places not to miss include the impressive Selimiye Mosque, and the small but delicate Armenian Church. After a hearty meal and strong Turkish coffee, it was time to head back to the South, and travel on to the next destination. Often praised for its coastline, Cyprus also has a beautiful interior, Traversing this region is an adventure in itself, with narrow, winding roads snaking through a landscape of forest covered peaks, including the inaccessible Mount Olympus, the highest point on the island. Along the way, you'll find charming villages with welcoming people, The valley of Agros is known for its vineyards and locally made products, and is a good starting point when driving from Nicosia. You can visit some of the wineries here, to see how the wine is made and bottled. The main village is also home to several traditional warehouses and workshops, my favorite of which is Niki's Sweets, that specializes Welcome, I'm Niki, and here we cook traditional sweets and marmalade. We cook about 90 different products. You can come here, taste everything, and see how we cook it. Driving deeper into the mountains, we come across some incredible Byzantine monuments, famous for its colorful frescoes. Scattered around the area, they include the monastery of Agios Ioannis Lambadistis, and the small but sophisticated Archangelos Michail, Probably the most famous historic site in Troodos Founded in the 11th century, it was destroyed and rebuilt multiple times over the years. Today, it is one of the wealthiest and most visited monasteries in Cyprus, and contains magnificent mosaics, icons and other relics. We travel onwards and reach the West coast of Cyprus The small city of Paphos has grown into a tourist center and gateway to the island. It remains a friendly place, where daily life mixes with While many visitors come here for the pleasant beaches, the city is one of Cyprus' most impressive ancient ruins. Founded in the 4th century BC, Nea Pafos grew into an during Greek, Roman, and Byzantine rule. You can spend hours strolling the grounds of this sprawling site, A highlight for many are the intricate and well preserved mosaics, Don't miss the Tomb of the Kings, to explore some of the Carved out of solid rock, these burial grounds were used by residents of Nea Pafos during Hellenistic and Roman times. We follow the Southern shoreline and pass Aphrodite's Rock, where, according to legend, the Greek goddess Aphrodite was born. Its mythical status makes it a popular stopover for travelers, who also enjoy the crystal-clear waters and beautiful beaches. Not far from here is Kourion, an ancient city-state built on a striking location, overlooking the Mediterranean. While the first origins here date back from neolithic times, Kourion became a permanent settlement some 3,300 years ago. Many civilizations left their mark here, including Myceneans and Greeks, but most of today's ruins date back from the Roman and Byzantine years. We traverse Limassol, also known as Lemesos This cosmopolitan city is the second largest in Cyprus, It's also gaining a reputation as a 'foodie' destination and serves as a convenient jumping off point for sights in the area. We only spend a few hours here, strolling the palm fringed promenade, and enjoying a refreshing juice, before heading back inland. Located on a hillside not far from the main highway is Choirokoitia, one of the oldest and best-preserved pre-historic sites in the Eastern Mediterranean. It's the earliest permanent settlement found in Cyprus, So behind me are some of the oldest parts of this whole excavation site. It's almost hard to imagine that these were people's living rooms, Walking past reconstructed huts and excavation sites gives a great insight into the evolution of human society in this region. Surrounded by steep valleys filled with pine trees and olive groves, is Lefkara, one of the island's most picturesque villages, and our next destination. It offers a great escape from the coastal cities, with a friendly Famous for its historic embroidery, lace, and silverware production, Lefkara was among Cyprus' most influential towns during the Renaissance. Although many of these flourishing industries collapsed in the 1930s, you can still witness artisans at work in the narrow cobble-stone Welcome to Lefkara, this is the original what I make here. I work just by memory. We make these with a specific design. And this design is made (in the style of) Leonardo da Vinci, I use Irish linen and cotton from France. This is traditional what I make, and has brown and white color. We continue our journey to Larnaca, a laid-back coastal city in the Southeast of Cyprus. It has a beautiful seaside promenade, where locals and tourists Despite the vast number of travelers arriving at its airport, Larnaca retains a real sense of community and gives a good Besides the beachfront, the city also boasts a small but intriguing historic center. From Larnaca's fort and Grand Mosque, which is still a working place of worship, to the imposing Church of Saint Lazarus. Named after the Biblical figure Lazarus of Bethany, who supposedly the church provides an eclectic mix of Byzantine architecture and Orthodox influence. We drive further through a countryside filled with tiny villages a city known for its holiday resorts and clubbing scene in Summer, to reach our last destination in Southern Cyprus, Cape Greco peninsula. This national park is famous for its dramatic rock formations, sea caves, and limestone cliffs. It's a beautiful place with rugged scenery, full of walking trails, Cape Greco has an end of the world feel, and in fact, We cross the border again, and travel to the Northern part Although first settlements were established here over 2 millennia ago, and became one of the wealthiest and most influential This prosperity and luxury slowly faded during Genoa's and Venetian rule, until the city was captured by the Ottoman Empire. Today, the historic center of Famagusta provides a great insight into this former stronghold, with a dense network of alleyways and crumbling churches. At its very core stands the massive Lala Mustafa mosque, a former cathedral that is now the main place of worship for local Muslims. It's a fascinating building with a combination of Gothic architecture I'm now inside the Lala Mustafa Pasha mosque, until it was converted into a mosque in the 16th century, It's a remarkable building. Other landmarks include the Othello Tower, an ancient castle built by the Lusignans, and, of course, the 15 meter high Venetian walls that surround the old city. Make sure to stop by this famous confectionary, selling everything Outside Famagusta's city walls we are tragically reminded of Cyprus' This abandoned neighborhood is called Varosha, and used to be a thriving beach resort, attracting tourists from afar, including many celebrities. In its heyday, it was given the nickname 'French Riviera of Cyprus'. All that changed in 1974 when Turkish forces invaded Northern Cyprus, after a coup inspired by the Greek military junta, essentially splitting the island in two. Varosha's mostly Greek Cypriot inhabitants fled South, In the years that followed, however, the area was fenced off by the Turkish army and Varosha turned into a ghost town. Closed for decades, except for Turkish military and UN personnel, Following a newly paved road, you can walk or cycle past Doing so is an eerie, somewhat surreal experience, and a stark reminder of the sensitive political reality on the island. For Greek Cypriots, the reopening (of Varosha) is a worrying development, as it threatens their aspirations to one day return to their homes. We drive through the mountains and reach the Northern coastline, After a roadside snack, we arrive in the sleepy hillside village of Bellapais, home to one of the most impressive monuments in Northern Cyprus. Bellapais Abbey dates from the 12th century, and was built by the Canons Regular, who fled the Holy Land, after the fall of Jerusalem to Saladin. The initial structure was expanded several times over the including a church, cloister, communal kitchen, and refectory. It's a tranquil place to wander around, especially in the morning before most visitors arrive. We travel onwards and reach Kyrenia, or Girne, the most visited city in Northern Cyprus, due to its proximity to and ferry connection with Turkey. Its origins can be traced back to the end of the Trojan War, although most of the current city was built in the centuries that followed. The skyline of Kyrenia is dominated by the massive castle, built by the Byzantines, and used by, among others, Richard of Lionheart, the It's a phenomenal structure, and walking through its corridors and on top of the bastion towers is a highlight for many people. Kyrenia also has a pretty old town, with winding alleys that Of great strategic importance for many centuries, the small port is now mostly used by fishing boats and tourist vessels. It's a wonderful place to explore and soak up the atmosphere, strolling past popular restaurants and cafes, many of which We finish our journey on one of Cyprus' most spectacular locations. Built on top of a craggy mountainside, with sweeping Named after a monk who lived a secluded life here, a fortified church and chapel were constructed by the Byzantines, Today, you can explore the crumbling towers, tunnels, hidden courtyards and ancient apartments of the remaining ruins of the castle. Climbing the steep pathways and stairs is not for the faint-hearted but reaching the top rewards travelers with incredible And that concludes my journey through Cyprus, a diverse and eye-opening travel destination, with captivating historic landmarks, spectacular natural scenery, lively urban centers, charming villages, delicious food, and friendly people. I realize I have only scratched the surface, and you could spend Yet I still hope this video gave you some travel inspiration, or at least provided a glimpse into this complicated but fascinating part of the world. Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely.