Hello, Chairman, Hello, Master Chairman, this is the Cultural Park bidding meeting. All tenderers' situation Please take a look Don't bother my dad with such a small matter of 50 million. You decide Dad, your main task now is to find a partner I'm waiting for the new mother to show up. You choose carefully There is also I'm over 50. How can marriage be so casual? You are 25 and still not married. When I was your age You will all be able to make soy sauce I don't care If you don't get married, I won't get married What smells so good? You choose carefully Come Brat What do you want to eat? Boss, give me two buns. good Two buns for 4 yuan There is also Excuse me boss I forgot to bring money Forgot to bring money? Young people are cheating Shame on you! Get out of here! How do you talk? If you keep talking nonsense, I will beat you up. release Lao Luo, don't be impulsive Lao Luo You loosen Everyone is here to make a living. It's not easy Help each other a little You are just too kind. Beware of scams Kid, are you okay? If you have no money in the future I also come to my aunt's house to eat buns You do physical work How can I eat two buns? Don't starve yourself. Thanks I'll give you the money later fine Aunt Are you single? Do you want to meet my dad? He's fine. As good as you Auntie is 50 years old. What's the point of dating? just My dad is also 50 Age appropriate The look is also suitable Or you can give me a contact method I'll go back and tell my dad Future mother, I have to go and get busy first Lili Lily, don't do this. I tell you Nothing I say today is of any use Your mother must move out. Lili Daughter-in-law, what are you doing? Li Yumei, you have been living in our house for a week, right? Is it time to move out? Lili, my mother has been busy from dawn to dusk for decades. He raised me by selling steamed buns She's for our down payment Sold all the old houses Now she has no place to stay Can we let our mother stay in our house for a while longer? Yu Fusheng, if your mother feels wronged, then I don't feel wronged, right? She sells buns every day Don't I feel sick from the smell of this bun? Don't forget I'm still pregnant But it's okay now My dad will take down the Zhao Group immediately Cultural park project worth 50 million Our family is not your kind. A place where you can eat and drink for free I just want to rent a house near here. It is more convenient to set up a stall in the morning Mom, it's all my fault. My job still depends on her father. Fusheng, don't say that. You are in my heart Always the best Are you done? When you're done, leave. This place is disgusting and smelly. I feel sick if I stay a second longer Are you leaving? Mom, I'm leaving first. Auntie, this is my dad's photo I have convinced him. See you guys Let's make friends Let's meet then good Chairman, you really need to listen to the young master and go on a blind date. Okay, let's go back to the company and clean up first. Need not This is just right Hello You are Ms. Li, right? ah I am Mr. Zhao who is going on a blind date with me today. Your clothes Oh, I just finished moving the bricks. The clothes are a little dirty If you mind I'll go back first. Hey, what's going on? I just think your clothes look familiar I didn't expect you to work on this construction site too. Sit over there This is the bun I made myself. Come and try it Dad, let me introduce myself first. I'm just an ordinary worker I usually work on this construction site. I only make two to three thousand yuan a month. Oh yeah I have another son A security guard You have also seen There is an old and dilapidated house at home. No way I am also an ordinary person You have seen my conditions. I set up a stall here to sell buns in the morning I also have a son But he's married. I just want to find someone who can take care of each other Live a down-to-earth life It also reassures my son. Oh yeah My son just troubled you. I'll give you his money for the buns. Oh no, no We all left our hometowns to work hard outside Who doesn't have difficulties? Just helping each other If you don't mind, we can get along. Oh, be careful. Are you okay? It doesn't matter How can you block it with your body? I hope you're okay. Li Yumei, if you don't move out I smashed your store. I was just trying to say that we get along pretty well. They all go on blind dates in order to live a down-to-earth life. Look How about we get married? I will give you a warm home in the future Ah Mei, just move to my place. Um By the way, you need to prepare a normal house. I suddenly remembered that I have something to deal with. Go back and clean up first. I'll pick you up at the stall later. Then I'll go back first. Hey Xiaohua You are in the old neighborhood near the construction site Buy me a small house of about 50 square meters Simple dad Tell me honestly Is our family bankrupt? Chairman, this is the house I bought according to your request. You can move in at any time Yeah, this is good. This suits my temperament with a monthly salary of 2,000 Why did Dad move here? Me and the aunt you introduced before Got the certificate True or False Haha so fast Actually, this guy is very good. I am very satisfied But I told him I just move bricks on the construction site. So I can only live here hahaha Lao Zhao didn't see it Ah, you are quite trendy. Learn how CEOs on TV pretend to be poor It's not you, you stinky boy. I was found a bunch of money-digging women before. I am inspecting the public Just go there in your work clothes I just want to test it But I didn't expect that he really wasn't the kind of person who despised the poor and loved the rich. I'll explain it to him in person when I have a chance. Hey, brat I have to keep it a secret for your dad. OK Lao Zhao, why is your house so old? Your furniture looks expensive. Hey, Lao Zhang Why does your house look old? This furniture looks cheap. Don't mention it, this decoration style is quite fashionable. Haha, I used to work with an engineering boss. It's a furniture store. If you don't have money to pay, take the furniture wages Wow So that's how it is Lao Zhao Is this blanket made of cashmere? Oh, this is expensive. This boss is really generous. oops No, they specialize in foreign trade business. Better materials However, these furniture are defective products. They don't want it anymore Oh, this is already good. Can save a lot of money How about living in the future? Let's save as much as we can. Oh yeah Wait a minute, I have to go out. My daughter-in-law is pregnant I was thinking of buying something for her. Okay, I'll give you some more money. Add some supplements Let's go together Hey, it's okay. You don't have to be busy. I have money Besides, you work very hard on the construction site. Yunfan has grown up too. This isn't a marriage yet. There will be more places to spend money in the future. You take this money Save it for him first. This thing You put it first I'll come back to collect it later I won't tell you yet. Go buy something with my daughter-in-law I'm leaving first. Why Hey, gone. Hey, let me take a look first. My mother-in-law is here too. I ordered a hen for Lili at the market. Just killed It's so fresh. plum beautiful Please don't bring any dirty things home, okay? Disgusting It's not this chicken. It's a native chicken. I ordered it at the market a few days ago. Free range chicken in the countryside I saw you were pregnant. This is very nutritious. You can supplement it well I don't use these to replenish my body This is what you rural people like to eat. I don't like to eat Besides, this bloody Bring it here and your house will be full of bacteria What should I do if I am sick? I'm sick and it affects my baby Can you afford the medical expenses? This is really nutritious. You need to supplement Don't use this to nourish your body You really need to make up for it. I don't want I really don't want Tomorrow is Lili's father's 50th birthday. You must come to participate It's all my son's fault I have to consider his father for my job. My son's job is important. We still have to maintain a good relationship. Okay, I'll definitely come. Mom, why did you let this poor guy Come to my dad's birthday party When I married Fusheng, I didn't invite him. Wouldn't it be embarrassing to invite him now? I let him come Just want him to know How big is the gap between us? One in the sky One on the ground I'm going to teach this poor bastard a lesson See if he dares to come again. Lao Zhao I'm back Are you injured? Why is it all blood? Oh, it's okay. This is The blood of the native chicken How can I get it on myself? What happened? I wanted to nourish my daughter-in-law. But she said she couldn't get used to it. Maybe it's the taste of city people. It's different from our rural taste. What's the difference? They don't know the goods. Many city dwellers I went to the countryside specifically to eat this kind of chicken. I like it very much Really Then I'll make you some chicken soup. No, it's okay. You wait. Chicken soup is here Let's eat Sit here Let me serve you some chicken soup Drinking more chicken soup is good for your health Especially for how long? Lao Zhao, tomorrow My father-in-law celebrates his birthday But I don't have any nice clothes. I'm afraid of embarrassing my son. After dinner Can you go out with me? Okay Eat it. It's really unlucky that I couldn't complete the performance Two more came I can't afford Lao Zhao's The shoes here are pretty good Pick a pair and I'll give it to you. Lao Zhang, this play is so beautiful 500,000 oops This is too expensive. Forget it. Go, go, go, go Hey You dirty hands You want to leave after touching our shoes This is the most expensive shoe in our store. Pay the money. I just touched it lightly. This shoe isn't bad. Why should I pay? Please show me clearly This is a luxury product under the Zhao Group. Your beggar's hand has stained my shoes with a touch And every pair of shoes in our store They are all carefully handmade by foreign craftsmen. Every diamond on it Be unique Even the soles of our shoes They're all sheepskin. The pair of shoes you just touched cost 500,000 yuan Even if you don't buy You should pay half of it. Swipe the card 250,000 250,000 Who told you that the Zhao Group has such a rule? You're dressed like a toilet cleaner at a shopping mall. Do you still want to learn from the boss? I said there is such a rule. Today Even if Mr. Zhao of the Zhao Group is here I will also kick you poor bastards out of the house. Mr. Zhao will let you be such a dog-eyed employee There will be no such regulations in the event of an accident Oh, it's still on stage. Won't keep me Are you trying to say that you are Mr. Zhao from the Zhao Group? Zhao Yi What if I say I am Zhao Yi? You said you are Mr. Zhao Yi What? Dong, aren't you a worker at the construction site? Oh, it turns out he is just a stinky bricklayer. I'm not even a cleaner at a shopping mall. Why do you feel so poor when you come in? What about Zhao Yi? I see You should change your name to Weird Yi You are the only one who has the same name as our chairman. Call your store manager. I'd like to see Who allowed a scum like you to work in such a dangerous place? You two pieces of trash are worthy of meeting our store manager. Get out of here The security will be here soon. I can't guarantee that you can walk out. Hey, Lao Zhao Forget it, let's go. This Zhao Group is monitoring That's overwhelming power. We can't afford to offend What's more There is no need for us to fight with these barbarians. Go Go Go fine I will teach those who bully you a lesson. Meet me at the store in a few minutes. Otherwise, get out of the Zhao Group You caught up with you, didn't you? I have to teach you a lesson today. Stop it You go, director. Manager, why are you here? Hey You stupid idiot You almost killed me. I heard Zhao's luxury store also divides customers into different levels My wife just touched the shoes was asked to pay compensation Is this the new rule you set for the Zhao family? Ah no no no The Zhao Group has never had such a rule. I didn't have enough training. Cause trouble to both of you I'm really sorry You can try on all the shoes in the store. Can I just try it? All stupid How do you handle this matter? Give you shoes Is it enough for you to just give me shoes? Ah, I understand. I understand. Don't reveal my identity Lao Zhang Well, this lady To express our apologies We decided to give you this pair of shoes ah Go pack your shoes. Oh, that's right. You can choose any of these clothes. this Do you think this is okay? Yes, this is their sincerity. Just pick two to try. Ah, then thank you. Ah, look at you. This dress is nice Change another set How about it Change another set nice Your clothes Thank you Then I'll go back first Walk slowly Start now You are fired Why Why was that Mr. Zhao from the Zhao Group? You dare to offend him? I can't tolerate you. Yunfan is coming Dad, Aunt Oh, auntie. I bought you a small gift oops Yunfan is thoughtful Just as you like This bracelet is so beautiful 800,000 So expensive Yunfang Aren't you a security guard at a construction site? Where does so much money come from? No No Auntie, this table is right at the door. Bought it at the supermarket entrance lottery You know The prices are all messed up Just a few hundred dollars Ah, yes, yes. Just a few hundred dollars So that's how it is Scare me it's beautiful I think I won't embarrass my son if I dress like this. Of course not. Auntie, are you going to attend any event? Yes, tomorrow is my father-in-law's birthday party. He invited me. I just went with your dad to buy two sets of clothes. Oh, my father-in-law I think he's the chief engineer of some Gaoding Group. Gao Ding Not that one Are you bidding for the cultural park project? Really good vision Chairman, will you attend tomorrow's board meeting? Let's postpone it. I have to attend my father-in-law's birthday party tomorrow. Oh, that's right. Xiao He's 50 million cultural square project Cancel the bidding? Just give it to Gao Ding as a gift to my father-in-law. Lao Zhang, this is about your construction site. Okay, I have a job laying floor tiles tomorrow. This job doesn't happen every day. Otherwise Go do your work tomorrow. I can go by myself. Okay, I'll go there when I'm done. Oh well Go try it Okay, I'll try it on. Laying tiles Our Mr. Liu is the best in Beijing. The core members of the Zhao Group Yes, Mr. Liu Can you personally come to our Lao Qin's feast That's an honor for our family, hahahaha Yeah, everyone sat down. No where I have good news for you. Mr. Zhao personally ordered This 50 million cultural park project I'll leave it to you Gao Ding. This is true Oh, of course it's true. And this project specifically asks you to be in charge It's a gift for you. Do your best. It's a must, it's a must, hahahaha I have something else going on. I'm leaving first Then you are busy, walk slowly well Yeah, yeah This is a $50 million project. Mr. Zhao gave it to me as a gift It seems that I am quite recognized. Yes, husband. We hooked up with Zhao What about our old Qian family? You will be successful in the future. Hahahaha, the Zhao Group is not only first in economy Look across the country That's one of the largest groups. Really? That's great. Hahahaha Dad Congratulations dad Fu Sheng Ge Know who you are with Thank you, Dad. Um Dad, I will work hard. Will not disappoint your expectations Iveson If it weren't for you marrying my daughter Our old Qian doesn't bother to care about your little shit. It's really like a piece of mud that can't be helped. Okay, mom. You too Need a room? No room? Need a car? No car You need your mother's help to buy a shabby house Follow my dad carefully in the future Don't be poor like your mother, you hear me? Sister Wenli, I will definitely let you live a good life Why My mother hasn't come yet? If your mother doesn't come, then she won't come. It's our own birthday party anyway. Besides, she doesn't even have a decent piece of clothing. Maybe he was stopped outside by security. Hey, you didn't tell her. Huachang Hotel is the largest hotel in Beijing. If you are a little bit poorly dressed, you can't get in. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm late Mom is not Yo I'm dressed quite decently today. Why This is not the limited edition high heel of Weiyao Group this year. Shoes? How do you have them? Oh, mother-in-law Are these shoes rented? Beware of athlete's foot The merchant returned the goods Not rented I went to the mall to pick it out yesterday. Pick the donkey door Don't think before you speak This shoe is the YL brand under the Zhao Group This year's limited edition high heels The diamonds above are all top-grade South African pink diamonds. It's worth more than 100,000 yuan. How to sell bags How do you raise money like this? I'm so ashamed to buy this Lili, please say less. I'm not wrong. Hey, this bracelet is made of glass-type imperial jade. Green Jade Bar Worth hundreds of thousands Yumei stole something No No I don't have much money But I won't do such a dishonorable thing Who knows if he is crazy? Just your little thoughts Don't think people don't know Your sister Oh no This is too much no Don't be impulsive, this is just a small misunderstanding Lili, she must be joking. oh Father-in-law, this is the gift I prepared for you. This is the ginseng and wolfberry wine I brewed myself. It's suitable for this age group. Wash your hands and pee Take it away You guys in the countryside don't wash your hands after going to the toilet. I don't know if it's dirty or not No No This one is quite clean. It's our poor and beautiful place. Our neighbors in the village I love drinking it. Your villages are all farmers. It's as dirty as a big city. Go away, it's so dirty My father is the chief engineer of Gaoding Group I'm here to give you a birthday party today. Not a gift If it's Maotai, it's roasted. You sent this small workshop wine Do you think you are really not presentable? Excuse me My mother-in-law, our Lili She was raised by her father since she was a child. The wine we drink at home At least more than 4 digits I was a bit too aggressive just now Don't mind it. It's okay. It's okay. I didn't think it through enough. Let's eat first I might be late for my father-in-law's birthday party. Such a small You let someone into my private wine cellar Pick two bottles of good wine and send them over oh Happy 50th birthday to you I toast you a glass If you don't know how to hold a wine glass, don't try to toast like others Hello Mr. Qian I am the special assistant of Mr. Zhao of Zhao Group. Mr. Zhao You are late for something. He just asked me to send a bottle of red wine. Happy Birthday to You Will Mr. Zhao come in person later? Yes, Mr. Zhao, didn't he tell you? Oh, that's great. Thank you Mr. Zhao Thank you, you're welcome Dad, you are awesome. Mr. Zhao came to congratulate you personally. Did you see Yu Fushou? My family is now favored by the Zhao family You can have the position you have today That's because she married me. Not because you can sell buns Mom has some relatives. Just have less contact Lower the grade It's easy to lose money, don't you understand? Oh, the 1869 Lafite is worth more than 1 million. Mr. Gao is very generous. Learn something Li Yumei, this is the good wine that can be given as a gift Hide that broken wine Hide it well and don't embarrass yourself by showing it out Lili, ah Lili Lili, drink some soup to nourish your body don't want I said no. I said no. Commander Feng was sent to But they seem to be bullying Madam. What How dare they bully Amy like this? I'll be there soon What happened to Xiaoke? The wife was bullied by her daughter-in-law at the birthday party What Give me the car now Mom is fine. Mom, look at him. Our family dinner What is he doing with his chopsticks? Can I still eat this? I don't eat anymore It's ok, I'll order you another bowl of soup. So expensive This is the Huachang Hotel of the Zhao Group. Of course it's expensive If it wasn't for our old Qian's birthday today Just the money you earn from selling buns for a year Can we have a meal here? Forget it, stop working here. This soup is what I feed my dog. Mom is fine. Help me get another one. Just enjoy your meal. A harmonious family brings prosperity What family is yours? Don't get close here. Our family is now favored by the Zhao Group. Not everyone can become a relative. Why don't you take a piss and look at yourself to see if you are worthy? Don't be impulsive Father-in-law and mother-in-law I know that our Fusheng can marry Lili That's her blessing. I really came here to celebrate my father-in-law's birthday today. I don't have any other meaning. What's more, Wu Sheng and Lili are already married. And Lili also Oh, don't call relatives. mom Lili Don't go too far. I am married My mom is your mom Is that how you talk to your mother? Yu Fuchang Don't think you are married to our Lili. Climb the high branch Tell you you are just an obedient dog See, my mom is here. What is his identity? Let me call him fuck Yu Fushou, I'm going to put this here today Either you cut off your relationship with him. Either you divorce me Don't want it, kid. I'm not making a fuss. Today is my dad's birthday. As an outsider, he cannot come in. Now he has made Shou Ye like this I don't wear Guan Yufu If you help him with nonsense again today Get out of here too Yu Fusheng, please look carefully at me On one side is your rural mother On one side is your wealth and glory. On the other side is your wealth and glory. Okay, okay. Wait until I finish my husband's project. Find a more obedient dog for my brother Isn't that simple? Yu Fusheng, have you chosen yet? If you didn't choose Get out now, security guard. Don't pull me Don't pull me Let go of your parents I really mean it to Lily. I am the only son of my mother. Raised me with great difficulty To make me get married The houses are sold If I break up with my mother Wouldn't I be a beast? Livestock Aren't you originally? Which one do you want, a house or a car? If it weren't for me You came to this city and were treated like an animal. You can't tell who is lighter and who is heavier What qualifications do you have to bargain with me? Father-in-law and mother-in-law Lili, I know I am from the countryside. But but I really care about you two. You're treating me like this now Aren't you pushing me into a dead end? Your sincerity is worthless. Dogs all dislike Yu Fusheng It seems you chose your mother. Well, you go with him. Mom, stop talking. The security kicked them out. Don't drive out. Mommy is a loser Divorce must be No, no, can't leave I promise you From today on, I sever my mother-son relationship with Yu Fusheng. It's not easy for a kid to settle down in a city. Mom doesn't want to burden you. As long as you are happy Mom is relieved. It's no use just talking I'll ask you to swear together next time Never come to Fusheng again Chen Lili stop Who dares to move My sister I'm here, okay? Auntie, are you okay? What to do It's none of your business here. You are not the leader of this bun seller, are you? How can you insult people like this? But my legal husband Legal husband I heard Fusheng say a few days ago You found a lousy bricklayer as your mistress That's him Dressed like a dog I thought you hugged a rich man. What happened to the bricklayer? Every penny we earn is our hard-earned money Why do you think we are more authentic than you? So what? My dad is the chief engineer. You just heard it. We won the 50 million project of Zhao Group laugh What do you poor bastards know? That's enough if you listen to me It is not impossible to soar to the sky in Gaoding But my dad didn't do anything wrong. You are such a loser. I am 50 today I won't continue to quarrel with you guys. Director Zhao will come to Nanjiao later. So you kneel down and apologize to me Then get out of this hotel. Forget about this matter Lest you accuse me of bullying you low-class people Why do we need talents? Why do we need talents? mom Or we apologize. Forget it Father-in-law today It's me Should apologize Apologize to Amei They should be the ones to apologize Apologize to Amei What grade are you? Let me apologize Asking you to apologize to Ah Mei is a sign of respect for you Hahaha Yo yo yo you think highly of me I tell you this stinky bricklayer We are now backed by the Zhao Group, the number one group in the capital. They named the partner company. If you make me angry I will make sure you guys can't survive in the capital. Dogs rely on their masters I want to see how you can make it difficult for us to survive. I'll crush you lowlifes As easy as crushing an ant Director Zhao will be here soon. Just wait to die. bring it on It's all my fault. I apologize to you on their behalf. I kneel down to you I kneel down you Yu Fusheng, please think carefully about where you are. There's nothing good going on here. No good thing You look down on me? Still look down on the low-ranking police gangs The Zhao Group is indeed powerful But I seem to have heard that the Zhao Group is also very kind. How can I allow you to bully people like this? Who bullied you? You just heard it. Mr. Liu from the Zhao Group came to invite my father personally. Since the Zhao Group has chosen me Then I will never help you poor people. The elite class selling buns at a construction site I won't show mercy to you low-class people. You are destined to never see the head of a big shot in your life The tone of your voice I really thought I saw it with my own eyes. Chairman of Zhao Group Really? You too. Mr. Zhao will come to congratulate me in person later. I'll see how you guys keep pretending. Mr. Zhao will not come The cooperation was also cancelled Bring Liu Feng to me within one minute. Yes, oops You stinky fish and shrimp Our old Qian said those few words about you You regard yourself as a character. Mr. Liu is also someone you can invite. snort Pretending here If you can call Mr. Liu I will kowtow to you three times right away Mr. Liu from Zhao Group arrived Mr. Liu is just a bunch of poor guys pretending to be nice. To sow discord between you, me and the group And he said he could call you over at any time. Oh, isn't this the Thief of Heaven? Shut up, hahahaha Good good good I shouldn't put you together with these low-class people. Don't be angry if I slap you Let's find a good place Let's talk about the project hahaha oops Haha oops hahaha You admit it, open your dog eyes and let me see Who did you catch today? Mr. Liu What did you say? Aren't they the two working part-time at the construction site? He is our The cooperation should be cancelled We are a multi-million project Is it something that a piece of shit like you can cancel? I declare that the cooperation between Zhao Group and Senior Group is cancelled. ah What Cooperation between Zhao Group and Gao Police Group cancelled Mr. Liu You're not going to cancel the project because of this stinky part-time job, are you? You are a bully. Not worthy of cooperating with Zhao Group Dare to say one more word I'll kill you Ahahaha This won't talk to you. Mr. Liu Didn't you say that Master Zhao specifically asked me to work with you? You don't even know that Mr. Zhao is here. Start Today A few chapters on the cooperation between Zhaoshi Group and you Get out of here now Where is Mr. Zhao? Hey Mr. Liu I beg you Please tell me which box Mr. Zhao is in I'll go apologize to him in person. Mr. Liu, I beg you Can't I kowtow to him and apologize? Hey Mr. Liu Why Mr. Liu You guys wait for me. Go or not I'll go ask for favor again let's go A-mei It's alright It's all my fault If I hadn't come today, there wouldn't be so much trouble. Oh, how can I blame you? They rely on their cooperation with the Zhao Group Only bullies That's right I heard from them that Mr. Zhao was also in this hotel today. But I didn't see anyone else. Lao Zhao Could it be that you are the Mr. Zhao they are talking about? Oh, how is that possible? They just happen to have the last name Zhao. Isn't this hotel owned by the Zhao Group? Maybe I happened to hear it when I was passing by. The Zhao Group is a benevolent and righteous organization. I won't cooperate with them, hahaha Hey, is it to transport food? Haha, yes, yes, yes When I first arrived, I heard the waiter say Mr. Zhao is also at the hotel today That's right. Like this big shot How could it possibly be related to people like us? Why Why are you dressed like this today? ah Hahaha Today We passed by a friend who was a tailor. They forced us to be that is Oh, your son That's too cowardly. They bully you He can only live in mud Lao Zhao, don't say that. Fusheng works under his father-in-law I must have suffered a lot. It's all my fault as a mother. I can't help my son. Mom is fine. I will be your son from now on You don't have to do anything Just enjoy yourself well Today is good I didn't even eat the birthday banquet. but The food in this restaurant is not as delicious as yours. Let's go home and eat Go home and eat Look how dirty you got. I'll come, I'll come You don't need to look Your palms are all calloused I make dumplings and set up a stall every day. Is it normal to have calluses? Besides Isn't it more stable to hold the needle cage with calluses? Hahaha I'll be here from now on I won't let you suffer so much. Old Zhao, you work hard to make money. And for me Why Lao Zhao, aren't you carrying bricks at the construction site? Why don't you have any calluses on your hands? I always buy thick gloves for work. So it won't wear out your hands. Parents Eating buns Hum, brat I don't know how to help Go wash your hands Airenfa No need to wash hands No need for help Just sit down My mom said Just sit down No need for help snort Just let it go. Oh, that's right. Ah Mei, your injury is not healed yet. No need to go out tomorrow Hi, this life If you can earn more, then earn more. Like this Our lives won't be so tight from now on. Then you two elders should have a good rest at home today. I have something else Go out first Then you pay attention to safety good Slow down. Okay, steam it. Daughter-in-law, let me see you. Why are you two here? I'll come see you Hey Hey, my daughter-in-law is rich. Bought a new house. Don't call me that. Yu Fugui and I have been divorced for a long time. Besides, I'm remarried now. Don't bother me anymore. If you say you won't come, then you won't come. Why hasn't my mother's alimony been paid in the past few months? That's right, 2,000 yuan in total Hey, Li Yongzheng, don't worry about it. We are a family I will help you How much money can you give him? You two are getting married so soon. Has she been cuckolding her husband for a long time? You're dirty Everything looks dirty Our Lao Zhao is ten thousand times better than you Don't accuse anyone. Better than me, right? Then you ask him to pay me back the betrothal gift you gave me back then A total of 220,000 Plus the betrothal gift of 2,000 yuan That's also 4,000 yuan. 20,000 yuan as soon as he opened his mouth I don't have that much money Then we won't leave here. Why You you are such a scoundrel I want me to give it to them. Like this dog skin plaster He won't leave unless you give him money. 20,000 yuan is too much I can't take your money My money is your money I'm here You just give him 20,000 After Lao Zheng Let's think of a solution. Today's money is lent to me by you. I will definitely return it to you in the future Why so much nonsense? Ah, bring it here quickly The squad leader has returned the betrothal money to you. Amei From now on, I have nothing to do with you. If you dare to come again We'll call the police. snort The rain is not good Don't come to me again. Hum go More than 20,000 yuan so much This is the money left for Yun Fan. He's not married yet. It's okay. I'll earn back the 20,000 yuan soon. You are carrying bricks at the construction site. Only 80 yuan a day How long will it take to save up this 20,000 yuan? It's all my fault. It's all my fault. They are now used to bullying me. I will be there in the future I won't let them bully you anymore. What happened to my parents? It's nothing. Yunfan is here. Mom, you don't have to worry about money so much. My dad and I have money Actually, I am from the group that caused the accident. Actually, I am from Zhao Group. Security guard of Zhao Group Oh, I know. Even if the Zhao Group does not delay the payment of wages But you have to save that money in the future Oh, forget it. I won't say anymore I'm going to cook. Lao Zhao, when are you going to tell my mom? You are the chairman of Zhao Group. What happened to you today? Why so sudden? Didn't you promise to keep it a secret for me? I just heard it. My mother can't even afford 20,000 yuan We usually go out for social events A meal costs more than 20,000 yuan Okay, you don't tell Dad. I have to say I know you are filial I'm not Let's talk about it another time. No, you should also give some money to my mother. Look at her selling buns under the hot sun every day You don't feel bad I still feel sad Oh, I know. I was just about to tell you I have already taken your mother's ancestral home. It is included in the planning of our Dujia Village Isn't this a natural thing? Did you give her money? Why Sure, Lao Zhao This is a good idea. What are you two whispering about? Hahaha Nothing, mom, dad I'll go take care of the work first. Oh, eating. Don't eat yet. I'm leaving first Then please be safe on the road. ensure Is this Ms. Li Yumei? I am asking you who I am a staff member of the accident group This time I came I want to tell you What about our company? Planning to develop a resort near your ancestral home This is a demolition contract. Please take a look We don't even have a highway. Can this make money? Ah ha ha, can I? Wouldn't the group responsible for the accident have repaired the highway at the same time? Yeah, yeah. Don't worry about this. Lao Zhao How do you know so much about the Zhao Group? How do you know so much about the Zhao Group? Oh, I saw it in the newspaper this morning. After all, this is good news that benefits the people. Yeah We have been interviewed by the media Just sign here. Oh this Please look at the contract terms 3 million yuan in demolition compensation It will be credited to your account next month. Uh, this resettlement house You have time to choose a set 3 million is so much Thank you Thank you. Good news, Mr. The old house my parents left me He's going to demolish it. We can get 3 million You can also get a new house This is great. Humph, you don't have to work hard every day. Are you selling buns? Hi, that one Can earn some money The main thing is that we now have emergency money Yunfan has grown up too I'm planning to get married in the future I live in your place now This new house Just leave it to Yunfan We are married Yunfan is my child Moreover, when Wu Sheng bought the house I'm out too The money is just right This house I'll leave it to Yunfan. You said that we parents If you don't support your children With Yunfan's monthly salary of more than 2,000 yuan How long do I have to save up to get married? This is such a kind woman, okay? Then you clean it up. We'll go choose a new house later. good Hahahaha, I didn't expect that You are busy Can you spare some time to visit our sales office? Today I am going to look at the large flat. Let's look at the villa, Mr. Zhao. Zhao Dong Didn't you say you were working on a construction site? What Dong? Construction site Ha ha ha ha This is their sales pitch. What do you mean by Dong? What is the total? You paid the money willingly, didn't you? I went to see the house with a co-worker before. He knows my last name is Zhao oh So that's how it is Yeah It's all salesmanship Which villa are you going to look at today? Oops, you misunderstood How can we afford to buy a villa? We are here to see the resettlement housing. Um Oh, why don't you just do your thing first? Let's see for ourselves Um Oh oh yo Look at my memory. The previous customer wanted to buy a villa. Hahaha Ah Mei insisted on giving the resettlement house to Yunfan I just bought another villa. Find an opportunity to send her Ah Mei, why don't you go and see the resettlement housing first? I'm going to check out the villa with the manager. Although I can't afford I also want to broaden my horizons. Why Okay, then I'll go check it out myself. Good cooperation Show me the villa worth 1 billion I bought this building for my wife. The commission is tied to your head Oh, that's great. Thank you so much Mr. Zhao You are so kind to your wife. Mom Lin Yumei, why are you here? Come buy a house I didn't come to buy a house I'm here to choose a resettlement house. What It's the Zhao Group that took in your grandparents. Leave that ancestral house to mom They said they wanted to develop Resort Mom Today I came to see the resettlement house Great, Mom. That way you'll have a place to live. Fusheng, Mom thought you were married now. Yunfan is not yet Besides, Yunfan doesn't have money to buy a house. This is the place to put it down Mom wants to leave this house to Yunfan Mom, it's okay. You're here for my wedding room with Lili I emptied my savings. And you live behind me now It's only right that the house should be given to Yunfan Why? That kid isn't his biological son. Sister Li, we are now a family with Yunfan Yun Fusheng, can you please stop pretending to be rich? I'm still pregnant Is this small shabby house habitable now? My project is gone. There will be plenty of places to spend money in the future. Buy another house Can I still raise that child? We'll talk about it later. Oh, it's okay. Yunfan is also old enough to get married Wait until your children grow up Mom will definitely help you. Li Mei Don't paint me a picture here. When my son grows up How old are you? Do you still have the energy to sell buns? ah You are biased How long have you been married to that old man? He rushed to give his son a house. Your son is here. I am not What happened? Lao Zhao Real estate certificate Lao Zhao, where did you get the money to buy a house? Lao Shao, where did you get the money to buy a house? Fake certificate I just participated in the sales department's lucky draw It's a consolation prize Commemorative Old man, just come. Li Yumei wants to give the house to your son Did You Know The house belongs to Amei He gives it to whomever he wants. No, you are just a freeloader. You don't have the ability to buy a house for your son. Just lie down on your wife and suck her blood. Lumei, open your eyes and see clearly. He might have predicted that you would get resettlement housing. I married you Otherwise, why would he be interested in you and the bun seller? Don't say that, Lao Zhao. He is not that kind of person. Besides, Lao Zhou and I are married now. Yunfan, he is my child I leave the house to Yunfan That's reasonable too. Do you think you are love-brained? Have you been played around by these two father and son? Your son is here. You don't care I'm not like you Staring at other people's things all day I keep looking at other people's things This house should have been ours. When he dies, my husband should inherit it. What's going on with your son? You Lili You say less Are you a coward? I'm helping you. Sorry, Mom and Dad I'm leaving first What to go Lao Zhao ah Haha ah What happened to him, mom? Li Yumei has become a demolished household The Zhao Group took over her broken house Gave him 3 million There is also a resettlement house But he didn't leave the house to Fushou Then he gave it to his stepson who was a security guard. You said this This Since he is a traitor Don't blame me for being ruthless to him. What can you do? I have a relationship The demolition compensation and resettlement housing he received All in my hands What's wrong The house we chose last week Why hasn't the property management informed me to go through the formalities yet? No way I have a co-worker working for the boss over there I'm afraid you'll forget ah Okay, then I'll go cook. Chairman Xiao He Why haven't the house and money been transferred to Ah Mei's account yet? We were just about to report this to your wife's mother-in-law. Bribed the village staff Give my wife the demolition compensation and resettlement housing All transferred to their own names How can this be possible? How dare they treat Amei like this? Didn't I tell you to keep an eye on me? Sorry we didn't notice His sister Wang Guilan is the village party secretary Wang Guizhi took advantage of this relationship Bribed our staff so Please contact Wang Guilan Just say that the person who caused the accident attached great importance to the resort project Other land will be taken I want to meet him in person What's the smell? It smells so bad. Sister, your mother has forgotten You also grew up in the countryside. Oh, how could that be? Sister, this time thanks to you Let me give my in-laws who got into trouble a resettlement house and demolition payment Got them all Oh, don't be happy too soon. I'm risking my hat this time. Things to do for you Money then. You can give me half. Ouch, no problem I'll talk about this in detail later. Hello Hey hey hello Thank you. What's the matter? Look how happy you are Just now This is a call from Mr. Zhao's special assistant. Mr. Zhao Special attention is paid to the development of this resort A moment Want to invite me to discuss developing other places? Hahahaha, really? Oh, I can climb up this big tree like Mr. Zhao. Oh, sister Then you later It's going to be a success. That's the time. Don't forget my sister. Hahahaha that's for sure Ha ha ha ha I think there is nothing good. Mr. Zhao's demolition The village is getting better. Mr. Zhao, you are a great benefactor in our village. Do a good job Of course Mr. Zhao, I have something else to do later. Come back in half an hour I'll let the village party secretary Wang Guilan entertain you first. You go ahead and do your work Just ask Wang Guilan to come over good Let Wang Guilan come Ouch What happened? Maybe he's Mr. Zhao's bodyguard. How to deal with the phone call that just came in Said Mr. Zhao will be here soon This is true Looks very impressive They value you very much. Hahahaha, wait till Li Yumei gets the relocation money. I also hired bodyguards Hey, village chief Ouch Guilan: The water supply pipe in our village is broken. I'll find someone to repair it. You guys are here to entertain our guests. He is the God of Wealth in our village. You guys are not going to treat me well. I can't forgive you Hey, village chief No problem, no problem Why Stinky bricklayer What are you doing here? Why is it you? What are you doing here? Isn't he the distinguished guest the village chief mentioned? Oh, what kind of distinguished guest is he? He is the husband of that stupid Li Yimei A bricklayer Hey, why don't you get up quickly? That's the VIP seat. Get out of here! Don't worry, I won't kill you. Even if your village chief is here, he won't dare to touch you. Ouch You have such a big tone. You don't want to owe the demolition fee, do you? Dream on Just that little money You are the only ones with little money. Even if you move 10,000 bricks, it's still not enough to make a small change. Eat Li Yumei's soft rice Your tone is still so hard. It seems he doesn't know yet. Li Yumei's house and demolition compensation have arrived at my place Hahaha I'm still proud of it It doesn't matter if I tell you My sister But the village secretary In the village, he has absolute power. Yeah I have never seen such a high-ranking official in my life. The Zhao Group not only took over your wife's piece of land Mr. Zhao will come in person to sign the contract with my sister Collect other land in the village As long as my sister moves her fingers His worth It's going to double It's hundreds or thousands of times more than your wife's relocation compensation. How about you come over and help my sister carry bricks? What a joke Ouch You're so proud. See these two rows of bodyguards? Mr. Zhao is here Don't get in the way Otherwise I will punish you. You have no right to control where I want to stay. This is my home. I'll let you go You tell him to go away If I roll away How did you meet Mr. Zhao? You, a lousy bricklayer, are trying to stop us from meeting Mr. Zhao. When we climbed up to Zhao Let you and Li Yimei, such a lowly person Get out of Beijing You don't have the qualifications. Mr. Zhao will be here soon. Look, I won't kill you. Chairman Chairman, I'm sorry to have kept you waiting. What chairman? village head My sister and I They are cleaning up this outsider who is carrying bricks. Shut up Is this how you entertain my guests here? Village chief, why did you hit me? I hit you, what's wrong? Who gave you the courage? How dare you talk to Mr. Zhao like this? Where is Mr. Zhao? Oh yeah Only this stinky bricklayer has the last name Zhao You shut up too You blind idiot Chairman Zhao You old thing You are blind. You recognized the wrong person. He didn't admit his mistake What are you pretending to be? Li Yumei said you are a stinky bricklayer That's right I am Zhao Yi, the chairman of Zhao Group. Occasionally go to the construction site to inspect and move bricks Chairman, let me handle it. Don't let these two villains bump into you. They bumped into me I can not care But they bullied Amei It's digging your own grave I heard My wife's relocation compensation and resettlement housing All under the name of Wang Guizhi How does the Zhao Group's project My rules How dare you change it without permission? No, no, this is all a misunderstanding. It's a misunderstanding Wang Guilan thinks you have been wearing the official hat for a long time. You've forgotten, haven't you? This is such a jerk thing. Make your own report Get out, village chief! Please listen to my explanation. This is all because of my sister who misled me. It's all your fault. Lin Yumei's husband is Zhao Dong. You must say he is a stinky bricklayer. I offended the Zhao Group. Look, I won't punish you. Chairman, I am a dog who looks down on others. You just let me go Leave me alone Let go of you. Let you go Okay, then let's settle both the old and new accounts. At the birthday party, you guys teamed up to bully Ah Mei. Today I will give you a thousand slaps Oh no no No, I won't dare to do it again. I will never dare to bully Li Yumei again I don't dare Do you still dare to ask for the demolition compensation? I don't want it anymore I don't want it anymore All the demolition compensation and resettlement housing were returned to the original Return the original to him. I don't want it anymore And watch your mouth. If Ah Mei knew my identity Never open your mouth I won't say I won't say Take away Come and take these two people down to me. So as not to offend the chairman Ha ha Chairman, please look at the Du Da Cui incident. Keep moving forward Don't let it affect other aspects. Oh, okay. Lao Zhao's demolition payment has arrived I just said it Zhao Group is reliable Let's go out to eat tonight Celebrate good Yes, only Yu Fen is left. Very good Why would such a stinky boy destroy our world of two? oops I have waited so long for you to finally come. How come you have time to come here today? I'm Xiao Zhou A hotel manager Don't you remember me? Xiao Zhou, haha Xiao Zhou When did you become so familiar with the hotel manager? No, I worked as a chef in this restaurant before. Xiao Zhou is my disciple. Really? Your cooking isn't good either. ah I just did some odd jobs for a few months. Oh yeah Sister-in-law, um That teacher's wife is good Uh, Brother Zhao He used to lead me in the kitchen. Then consider me half a master. Ah, yes, yes. This is your wife. ah If you have nothing else to do, just go and do your work. Ah that Okay, okay, I have something else to do. Going to work first Let's talk next time. Hahaha Let's go eat first. Good. That's perfect. Let's go try your enthusiastic female apprentice's dishes Ahahahaha mom Where's my dad? snort Hahaha Where did you run off to? Xiao Zhou talks to me Your mother is jealous. Who said I was jealous? I didn't expect you're already that old. There are also lesbians who are looking forward to you day and night. Oh, we don't know each other at all. He's just talking nonsense. Okay, can I introduce you to it in advance? Don't bluff me. I saw you holding hands. Hey mom, when I was a child, my dad owed He never paid back the money. So every time I see my dad, it feels like he's haunted Okay, Mom loves money. What are we doing today? So happy Also come out to eat Yunfan, how about you? Not small anymore Haven't bought a house yet So I'm going to divide this house up by demolition. Just write your name and receive it Not mom How can this be possible? This is your ancestral home. I have a house Don't worry snort Your house is rented Don't think I don't know Your dad told me Fusheng I paid money when I bought the house. You are my child now. This house is definitely for you. Lu Chao, my mother is so good What else are you testing? ah Tell the truth to my mother Oh, good. oops Sister, I'm telling you the truth. The last time you bought a resettlement house I have to turn the house upside down. I bought a villa for free. Where did you get the money? Actually, I am the chairman of Zhao Group. oops Lao Zhao, I know you feel sorry for me I also know that you don't want me to leave the house to Yunfan But don't make up lies to cheer me up. ah Make up lies Hey, don't say that Now these people who make fake certificates are really good at it This real estate certificate really looks like that Not mom This is true Yunfan, why are you just like your father? I was terrified. Cheer me up I'm telling you As for you, don't think about anything else. This is settled. This house must be taken. I've made note of Lao Zhao and Xiao Zhou's affairs for you. Oh my god Lao Zhao Look at the good things you did. Me too I don't know what's going on. Wait for me Oh haha Outstanding Entrepreneur What a beautiful certificate! Baby, come and see whose name is written on it Okay, let me see who it is. Hello Mom, come to the hospital quickly. Fusheng had a car accident. What? I'll be there soon. Fusheng had a car accident I'm going to the hospital. Hey hey hey son Son, why are you so injured? I'm fine Mom He was seriously ill when he was born. Need a lot of blood But he has RH negative blood type O The hospital said so much blood You have the same blood type as him. Now only you can save him. Okay, I'll find I'll go out and look for it. Don't be afraid, son. Mom is here. You wait, go quickly. The hospital's blood bank is now tight I just had a checkup I don't know if he can use my blood. Don't worry, it's just a small matter I can get plasma from all over the country. Don't forget I am the chairman of Zhao Group. Lao Zhao, stop joking with me at this time. Amei, this is all true Auntie, the test results are out, can you use it? real Great, I can help the possessed. girl Sister, drawing blood will hurt your body I'll figure out a way to do this. No, he's in critical condition. Can't wait any longer I have to draw this blood. Girl, please draw as much blood as you can. I have to save my son Auntie, you are too thin. I'll draw 200 ml for you first. 200 ml is not enough My son lost a lot of blood Please smoke more. How can this be possible? Smoking too much is bad for your health If there is not enough blood Remember to tell me son How is your son now? Mom just drew 200 ml of blood for Your doctor should be here soon. How can 200 ml be enough? Mom, I mean Fu Sheng was seriously injured. He may need 500 ml Mom doesn't give birth You have to listen to the doctor Mom can hold on Mom will go find you right now. Miss, can you please draw another 300 ml of blood for me? The blood just now was not enough No, Auntie You smoked so much at once. The body will be dangerous Yes, Amei I'll figure these out. Don't draw your own blood anymore. I know you feel sorry for me But I am Fu Sheng's mother. I don't help him Who else helps him? I'm fine. Just smoke some more. Then I'll give you some last Xiao He immediately Contact all private hospitals under the Zhao Group In one hour RH negative o type blood must be transferred to this hospital If you can't do it All closed tomorrow yes Lili, can't you tell my mom? Do I just have a broken arm? Are you sick? Tell your mom How did she give my mother a blood transfusion? I'm so weak How can you draw so much blood at once? It's not that you don't say What do you mean? You old your mother Damn you, you care so much about your mother What should I do with my mother? My mom, you don't care about my life or death, right? Lying in bed now It's my mom. My mom is bleeding heavily. You say that now Yu Fusheng I tell you If your mother and I didn't have the same blood I hate your dirty blood. Then you use my blood. I pinched you Can't stand Yu Fusheng Is there something wrong with your brain? You are hurt now How do I draw your blood? Besides, draw your blood As long as you are not short-sighted What should I do with the rest of my life? Let me take care of a disabled person? You can't draw so much blood from my mother. You fucking block me again I divorce you son ah mom Why doctor don't worry He has some anemia Probably because I drew too much blood. doctor There's not enough blood. Your mother's condition is really serious. More blood is needed Ah, I think of a way I think of a way I'll ask Li Yumei to draw blood again later. But his body can no longer bear it. Don't worry about him so much. My mother's life is important. higher Hold higher Drain his blood. Good good good Hello Chairman, our people have understood the situation. Yu Fusheng only had a broken arm No blood transfusion required What are you saying? Seriously injured and needing blood transfusion It's my wife's mother-in-law, Wang Guizhi How dare they lie to A-Mei like this? Yu MeiYu Mei Did you take any random medicine? How can I get enough blood? Go, go and suck my blood. What are you doing It's impossible The nurse clearly said that I was qualified. Don't bother with this. Go donate blood Do you still want to save your son? good I'm going to the book now Son Son You wait for mom Mom will go write soon, wait for me Hey, Amei? thing Lao Zhang, help me wash the quilt by hand. Can you hurry up? What are you going to do? Lao Zhang Your mother is also seeking a happy life He even hates your son for lying to you. Are you saying that the one who was seriously injured was Yu Fusheng? But I heard All the blood Ah Mei drew was lost to your mother Wang Guizhi What are you talking about? Ask Li Yumei if she wants to give my mother a blood transfusion In no mood She wouldn't let your asshole act for you, would she? Stop spitting blood on me. Your mother had a car accident and was bleeding heavily. She also has panda blood. You even cheated Ah Mei's blood with Yu Fusheng I tell you If there is anything wrong with Ah Fei's body I'll bury your whole family. no What they say is true You've always kept your head down whenever you lied since you were a kid. You disappoint your mother so much. Mom, listen to my explanation. I don't promise you She's going to divorce me. I can't help it Enough It is said that the body and hair are given by parents. Not only do you not repay your mother for giving birth to you, Still have the nerve to cheat his blood as an outsider Look at how weak your mother is now. Don't you feel bad? ah Don't you just want money? ah Don't you just want money? Is it enough? Is it enough? ah If it's not enough, I'll add another 10,000 Add another 10,000 20,000 yuan for your blood Is this enough for me to be a popular guy? Ah, is it enough? Is it enough? Guess What the hell is this dog doing? What do you want to say when you get 20,000 yuan? You can't buy Ah Wei's health Brain disease Go back to the health department I go You are sick Your mother is sick Lili Don't worry Let me think of a way to save our mother. If I think of another way, my mother will be gone. Then you can't draw so much blood from my mother. Then your mother hired my mother. I've already given her money. What else does she want? A-mei You take a rest first I'll go get the medicine. Yu Mei Yu Mei Yu Mei Yu Mei I beg you I'll give you another ten thousand. I'll give you another ten thousand. Can you save my mother? I beg you, please save her. I don't want your money Can I go save your mother after I get some rest? But my mother can't wait any longer. I beg you Help me! Please, please, please Quiet I just asked the doctor. My mother doesn't have to use IH negative type O blood Normal O-type blood is also acceptable. Can you please stop having your blood drawn by my mom? What do you know? People with the same blood type won't harm your body. And I have given her an extra 10,000 now What else does she want? Lili, this is not about money. Keep pumping. My mother's life will be in danger. But isn't she already here? There's no reason to not lose. I can't control you today I don't care whether your mother lives or dies. I just want my mom to be alive You let me go down Qian Lili Let go if you don't let go We'll get divorced. After you get divorced, you keep talking about divorce. Do you believe me kid? If you don't want it, just kill it. Just a drag machine You just leave You just leave What did you say Son, what are you doing? mom Don't worry about it for now I said divorce My mother and I have been treated well over the years. You had a cold and fever before Your parents are abroad It's my mother who cooks and washes for you day and night Busy with clothes You said you wanted a wedding room My mother sold all her old house and jewelry. But you not only don't let my mother live in the house And I raised you again and again Now I don't care about her life. To draw her blood Do you have a heart? Yue Fusheng You first saw me Isn't it just because of our money? I think my dad can help you with your work. I can warn you If you divorce me You don't have these My dad won't help you anymore. Stop fucking working Threaten me Your parents can do whatever they want to me. But you can't do this to my mom. Who are you playing face with? You and your mother have no money and no power, so just be a dog. Can you be a little more aware? Divorce quickly Get out of my mom's sight right now If you want to leave, just wait for me. Waiting Son, what are you doing? Go chase Lili! I haven't been chasing for so many years. You have been wronged You for me Getting up early and going to bed late to buy buns I relied on the buns to support my schooling Raise me up I still have most of my life savings to buy me a house and get married I treated you like this with an outsider. I'm sorry Son Son Don't say that. As long as you are happy Mom, it's okay to suffer a little It's okay. mom I promise that I will respect you well from now on This will never happen again. good Good son, good son Hey hey hey Come and take it What are you looking at? Take it Start Today You were assigned to clean the toilet. Why Why just because my dad is the chief engineer? If he asks you to train, you have to train. You are taking revenge for personal gain. So what? How can a small employee like you compare with me? I told you Let you wait Now I won't give it to you. What are you doing? Clean the toilet quickly Otherwise, you won't even get your 3,000 yuan salary. mom Son, what are you doing? fine I was transferred to the cleaning department. Is it Lili? She made things difficult for you. Too much Go son Let's go discuss an explanation. What to say Two poor bastards Hey, you dare to have an opinion Do you have the qualifications? You guys are bullying too much. If you don't want to do it, get out What to do What to do snort Where did you rent the car? Even if you dress like a decent person, you still look poor. Are you okay? I'm fine They are bullying Fusheng He must be the cleaner. Don't worry, I'm here They dare to bully Fu Sheng I will never forgive How dare you, a fool like you, go against me? I tell you Not only can I let your son clean the toilet It can also make your whole family unable to turn over a new leaf for the rest of your life. You can bully me any way you want. I can't embarrass my family. Fusheng, don't say that. Yo what day Three poor guys are having a meeting Don't let the company stink up. Wang Jie always looks at me twice How dare you talk to me like that? Isn't it you who can call Mr. Wang by his full name? You stinky bricklayer Don't even take a piss and look at yourself Mr. Wang is daydreaming while looking at your expression. Wang Jie will be here soon Hahaha Don't let your dreams get you into trouble. I don't want to waste time talking to him. Where's the security guard? Yo Wang Hao, President Oh, this ignorant waste. He wants to summon you. I'll drive him away. Blind waste Mr. Wang, you called the wrong person. He's a damn bricklayer. Mr. Wang, my father is a chief engineer after all. You hit him and It's obviously these three poor guys who are causing trouble, okay? I'm hitting you guys. How dare you humiliate my guests? Wang Jie Is your company so private and public that it doesn't distinguish between them? With a little power in hand, I dare to make my son a cleaner I think our cooperation can be done without Continue. No, no, that's not the case. You two blind idiots. How dare you ruin my cooperation with the Zhao Group? Pack up now Get out of here right now Mr. Zhao I'm so sorry about what happened today I am not good at managing my subordinates. Let them bump into you Please have plenty of I will never let them go. Please calm down, Mr. Zhao. Zhao Dong Zhao Group Mr. Wang, you are wrong. He is not Mr. Zhao He's just a stinking bricklayer. Could I be mistaken? How dare you mess me up here? Believe it or not, I will kill you Wangge Wang Ge I'm sorry Now people are wrong If it's too late, I will notify everyone in the industry to ban you. Mr. Wang, you can't do this. My wife is still in the hospital waiting for money. I can't lose my job You see, I work hard for the company. For so many years Please let me go. Floating Life I know I'm wrong I won't dare to do it again Let's not get divorced, okay? I will treat my mother well in the future Don't forget that I'm still pregnant with our child You never considered me and my mother as family members. I won't plead for you. Rich businessmen do well These people will only cause you trouble. This is what your family deserves. Oh, my husband. No, we know we're wrong. I'll kowtow to make amends, hahahaha OK Take him away Hey, hey, Mr. Zhou Leave us alone Leave us alone Fu Sheng Fu Sheng You can't do this to me. I didn't expect it was really Zhao Shi Extreme Zhao Hey, please eat slowly later. Oh son I told you this before. I am the chairman of Zhao Group. Now think back When you saved me He really looks like a chairman. Lao Zhao, I'm telling you No matter who you are I I like you as a person. I know you don't care about my true identity So I regret hiding it from you. You have suffered so much injustice I have more money and power. Not as important as you I swear to you From now on I will confess everything to you without reservation I will also face the ups and downs with you. Old Zhao Ms. Lee Yuk Mei Will you marry me? Will you let me take care of you forever? I do You finally explained it to my mom. mom Congratulations on finally finding someone who can accompany you for the rest of your life