Friday, April 13, 1945, America is petrified. Franklin Roosevelt, the president of the United States, while World War II Roosevelt more than anyone else, he embodied the hope of seeing on a better basis. As the crowd watches the whole planet Without Roosevelt, Westerners and Soviets And to build a lasting peace? April 12, 1945, Washington, at the White House. Three hours after Roosevelt's death, Harry Truman becomes He enters the scene In this month of April 1945, America is still at war To simplify nothing, it's only been three months since And nothing predestined it the new president of the United States. He is a former seller He launched and was elected senator for the If Roosevelt it's not for his skills. He took it for considerations while thinking that he was useless, When we choose the vice-president, it is not necessarily because it is often him places we need. Within a day, the old trader from Missouri therefore finds himself propelled to the head He himself is flabbergasted and does not hide it. On the front page of the press, journalists tell Guys, if you pray, I don't know if a boot but when they told me I had the impression that the moon, fell on me. Still, remembers that his grandfather to be the man for the job. He wasn't prepared for any of this. He said &quot;there must be a million to perform this function. It fell on me so i will do everything He was the kind of man to whom The task looks tough. We must rebuild the world But Truman has no During the three months Roosevelt never met him Truman was made aware of nothing. I think my grandfather was wrong He was fully aware but I think to involve Truman in his decisions Two months before dying, Roosevelt had met It is there, in Crimea, that the big three The agreements sealed Each of the allies Of all these discussions, It needs to update He's a pragmatist So he goes on Will this hard work be enough? The little Missouri tie merchant will he be able to do One month after arrival the Allies win the war in Europe. Across the continent, In London, a human tide The British Prime Minister Yet despite this moment of euphoria, Churchill looks drawn. The smile on his lips In his memoirs he writes: Weary, exhausted, and now triumphant. We knew However, few hearts were to be what can be The problem for Churchill Now that the Briton is convinced to establish wherever he can. Already, unlike the Soviet leader installed Poland, six non-Communist ministers but they have every day Stalin wanted It was by ideology, but it was also because it was a dictator The British Prime Minister The brand new For now, to respect He is not willing against its communist ally. Churchill can only hope The opportunity will soon be given to him. July 16, 1945, Berlin Airport. The plane of the American President Truman goes to Europe On this occasion, and make up your own mind about them. The discussions a few kilometers from Berlin. To get there, Berlin is nothing more than a field of ruins. Only a few rare This spectacle of desolation and will push him to want to help That evening, in his diary, he writes: I had never seen a show We saw young women what they could The conference opens the following day, July 17. Here at Schloss Cecilienhof, this is the only time that Stalin, will all meet together. As Truman expected, As for Stalin, his advisers constantly However, very quickly take the measure of the man I can deal with Stalin. he is honest For his part, Stalin, For him, Stalin has little information about him his spies and what had told him had let him foresee of slack and that we were going to be able But when Truman says no, it means no. Because against all odds, the american president It is by no means Question of character no doubt, Truman feels in a strong position because he is waiting for information who could make him At the same time, in the United States, an event As he negotiates, the american president On the second day of negotiations, finally, The doctor comes about the fact that the little boy The light in her eyes and I could have heard her cries This little boy in question, Since four years, the best scientists on the planet, are working to develop Operation code name: Trinity. The first atomic test The power of the explosion Never such power Only one weapon now has the power After some hesitation, This is bad news, It means that now Soviet Union Everyone was watching And Stalin, says: &quot;I congratulate you and I hope that Stalin Despite protective measures the Russians managed to introduce where the atomic bomb was made. Among them, This German physicist fled Nazism. Fuchs is also because he is a convinced communist. For two years, all plans of the American bomb. With this information, the Soviets began to Despite this, on July 24, than the bomb he gets nervous. Stalin hates nothing He summoned the people and he asked and to all those that he wanted us to speed up as much as possible creation This bomb will become Until he has the Generalissimo will not feel Relations with Truman Potsdam also goes In the middle of the conference, to go to London where he must As a convinced democrat, British Prime Minister Since weeks, while he is in the countryside, But on the morning of the elections, at dawn, I woke up suddenly as if and I felt The power to shape Churchill's intuition was correct. To everyone's amazement, he is not re-elected. To the hero of war, Labor leader Clement Attlee. After his victory, Attlee slides into the chair, Around the table, everyone Clement Attlee is someone Churchill said Or an empty car and Major Attlee descends from it. A modest man And there, because he was convinced that Churchill had done everything Because for Stalin, who is worthy of his position. Facing an Attlee Stalin takes matters into his own hands. He is the last Now, with Attlee, Great Britain The world only matters the United States and the Soviet Union. Truman and Stalin Very quickly, the disagreements that exist and transform Five days after Potsdam, which will have serious consequences. The United States will use Tension with Stalin August 6, 1945, in the early hours of the morning, American bomber Enola Gay At 8:15 a.m., A gigantic mushroom Temperature 70,000 people are killed instantly. The city is one Three days later, August 9, it is Nagasaki's turn to be bombarded. The whole world is in shock. For Stalin, He is convinced that Truman He doesn't understand that while on August 8, the Soviet Union had entered the war For us, was clearly that the use was not meant to win but to scare the Soviet Union in order to be able to dictate Clearly, Truman wanted and save American lives. But it is also clearly 'Cause Truman means to let him know Since then, Stalin wants to know by what margin so he will test it. In Yalta, territories in exchange Sakhalin Island, and a railway line But Stalin now asks, In a telegram sent to Truman, &quot; Russian public opinion &quot; receive an occupation zone &quot;She would be gravely offended &quot;I hope that my modest Then he changes his mind and adds "Will meet no objection". The American president is pissed off. His answer is straightforward. It's no. Grandfather was expecting people He was like that that people When he discovered and that Stalin he started to negotiate with him Stalin also decided He will push his advantage in Europe. Rigged elections, coup de force. wherever he can, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Bulgaria are about to fall This creeping Stalinization But the American president is The telegram that lands on his desk His author, just a diplomat Kennan had time to observe He understood that he wanted and he is convinced is to be firm. In a long telegram it describes the mode The Kremlin has in world affairs, which comes to him from his Russian instinct Russians are waterproof and very sensitive to the logic of force. Kennan explains that he is useless In any event, does not want to be reassured since But on the other hand, because he understands the balance of power Stalin is ready to step down. Kennan's analysis confirms everything From then on, the change of foot is total. Truman breaks up considered too soft on and promotes new men. In the aftermath, as a special adviser. There remains a difficulty for Truman, make the public understand The operation looks delicate Stalin is the great ally. The one who allowed The press never ceased They underwent four years who shows them Stalin and the best ally of the United States This propaganda Stalin is also The American president then has an idea. He will use and let him announce Churchill cums No one will dare And then, will surely be delighted Since his defeat in the elections, he goes through a period This March 5, 1946, the whole little town took out the flags for It is sunny. Truman, is all smiles. The American president knows that the but it will keep well A few minutes later, Churchill giving a speech and shake the whole world. From stettin in the Baltic an iron curtain has fallen The speech Americans are shocked. Stalin, their great friend. It was strategic to let Churchill speak and use this expression because it showed and world opinion that this turnaround Wasn't just Truman's doing but that a personality was going in the direction Soon, Americans who admired Stalin will consider it In the USSR, pass for once Stalin is furious. Intellectuals are headwind against Churchill. Churchill was the enemy He was the leader most He spent his whole life doing Now, European countries that of communism or capitalism. In this race Stalin is one step ahead. He has already got his hands on and gaining ground in the West. In France and Italy, entered the government. How far will Stalin extend Revolutionary France of 1792. The question haunts Truman and the American president understood that in this showdown he had against him an adversary Almost two years after the end of Europe still has not recovered. The Old Continent is on the verge of chaos. Truman is well aware that But before acting, he needs to have At the beginning of 1947, Truman Dispatch This senator from Montana His report is frightening. In all the countries visited, tuberculosis and diseases. In Italy, the majority of the population remains ranging from 75 to 125 grams. She hardly eats anything else. After reading this report, If he does not come to the aid of the Europeans, he will leave the field open Truman then decides entrusted to General George Marshall, the new US Secretary of State. Raw materials, machine tools, tons of material are transported Behind its generous aspect, the marshall plan who need to revive their economy. It was also a way 'Cause you can't you must have Therefore, if the United States, who had profited from the war, could not because other countries that meant that The Marshall Plan is also a weapon because American aid including Eastern countries. And of course, Eastern countries which are also need it a lot. Czechoslovakia, Poland, But what will prevail? The Marshall Plan was perceived like the map by the American imperialists. All of this was unacceptable to Stalin. Eastern countries are called upon to fall into line. Sixteen countries in total All West. France, the United Kingdom and Italy In mid-1947, the curtain A city will pay the price between Westerners and Soviets. Berlin. The German capital is located right in the But the city itself is busy United States, France and USSR. Together, all must surrender But the allies are not The priority for the Soviets because the USSR is ruined. As provided for in the peace accords, and dismantle German industry. Entire factories are cut up and brought to the Soviet Union Opposite, the Americans, Like they promised the Americans gave We on our side but we were unable We couldn't compete. West, while the eastern sector Americans would like to go further to revive the German economy. Stalin opposes it. He wants to maintain a status quo. What Stalin wants, it is, that there is on both sides of Berlin and that isolated West Berliners, end up falling This capitalist enclave what is east germany To get out of the impasse, Westerners do not see This will cause Until what point ? Generalissimo Before acting, And that's why, spying. Only, at the start of the cold war, the american secret service It is, moreover, interesting to note in 1942, the Roosevelt administration created and that this service at the end So between 1945 and 1947, the United States has no service In the summer of 1947, Truman decides to create which will soon be known Henry Hillenkoetter, a former admiral is named at its head. Hillenkoetter has and train The problem is that you have to find and apart from the Russians themselves, there are not many people. For this former agent this posed serious difficulties. The problem was knowing to someone who was Russian by birth in the case of important secrets. because we never had he wouldn't work too Hillenkoetter then goes to the most urgent. In pragmatics, it's with the enemies that he is going to recruit his spies. Reinhardt Gehlen, a former nazi ex-intelligence chief is recycled by the CIA. Gehlen knows very well He will become the brain of Through him, hundreds Americans The only thing that matters to Truman, The sky has changed. The cold war, the enemy, it was not Germany, limit, take people who are Of course, the former Nazis are So here we are in Facing the CIA, Russian GRU secret service They have a head start exist since Berlin will become In the street, in the army, All, whatever their side, have the same objective which is to to speed it up. Spying, in which We penetrated to the heart As Truman had asked them, Gehlen and his men seek to find out if Westerners In the late spring of 1948, german spies June 9, Hillenkoetter warns According to the head of the CIA, if Westerners this is how Stalin would react. The USSR will probably make sure to put sticks in Berlin and everywhere else but without resorting to force. It's the green light four days later Americans, British and French create the Deutsche Mark. For Stalin, is a provocation. He has to score. Like German spies the Generalissimo then decides On June 24, 1948, he cuts all the The roads that connect Germany to two and a half million Without food, In Washington, part of his staff The American President Supply Berlin by air. He didn't want to trigger It was even But he didn't want and show that we were not reacting. Because if you let afterwards, I don't believe the idea but he accepted it Four days after the start of the blockade, huge american cargo planes In their entrails, and the famous CARE packages. These packages, contain Bacon, margarine, The taste of America. What Stalin is that the Americans, the English maintain for 11 months a supply from West Berlin at the rate of 6,000 tons per day. That is to say, every day at Berlin's three airfields, there is a plane For a year, Berliners will live who take turns day and night Despite American aid, To hold on, We see appear Vegetables soon To warm up too, Americans so the Berliners The trees are uprooted. No more benches On the stairs, Coats, bags, shoes. Berliners lack everything, Americans, too, And as Gehlen had foreseen, Stalin does not give the order He wasn't ready for war because The Soviet Union could not while we had during World War II. Understanding that he lost on May 12, 1949, All over West Berlin, For the communist leader, Missouri's Little Shopkeeper made the man bend In his memoirs, He knows that in the race he has just scored a decisive point. The blockade had sharply returned Germany, to whom she would throw was now turning It does exactly who always wanted to sow It seals reconciliation and friendship between the German people They have become extremely popular. These are the men Fifteen days after the lifting of the blockade, Westerners create The Soviets retaliate with This time, yesterday's allies are To the White House, Visionary, he writes: &quot;At the end of the day, our policy on the continent where there are only three solutions: a disintegration or a terrible war&quot;. This threat of a terrible war weighs Stalin did not digest He tries to take over. By dint of effort, he goes, once again, On August 29, 1949, to the amazement of Westerners, the russians blow up Fuchs information ended up bearing fruit. intelligence services to accelerate the creation of and they allowed us Our scientists received by our secret services allowed us to shorten ten to five years. For Truman, the surprise is great. He never would have imagined that take so little time Stalin feels strong again. Soviet Union The world enters This cold war Raymond Aron saying it's an impossible war, impossible because it would be atomic, unlikely peace. Impossible war, improbable peace. Conflicts, in fact, But they will stay local Because never blood between Americans At the risk of causing It's in a small country, would be located on the map, that the first of these conflicts Korea. Since 1945, Korea, is busy on both sides To the south, the Americans. To the north, the Soviets. Since that time, Kim Il-sung, seeks to reunify his country. Many times, The Soviet has always refused. However, on January 12, 1950, the generalissimo changes his mind. Because of a very small sentence US Secretary of State, That day, in his speech on Acheson wrote: "Our defensive perimeter extends &quot; Passing by He forgot Korea. It's stupidity not to do. There was Taiwan, there was everything, it's not smart. It's curious for someone Finally, he screwed up and it was taken by Stalin And he said to himself that after all, Americans Stalin then gave the green light to On June 25, 1950, at 4 a.m., the North Korean army crosses Truman on the weekend is immediately notified. The American President We must respond with force. In his memoirs he recalls. If such a scenario were not it meant the start of a Because these are similar incidents who had provoked Americans did not expect They have practically no troops there. North Koreans are progressing and take over Seoul Truman is extremely concerned. How will all of this end? The president writes to his wife. I hope I don't have to give Truman won't need because he can count on a man, great hero he is in charge of administering Japan. He knows Asia well In a few months, MacArthur manages to resume In November 1950, Americans have almost They are close The Cold War threatens because since 1949, Mao then hurry to help Here too, we notice, finally, That he doesn't want and that he uses this artifice for, in a way, There is, of course, not theorized, Everyone advances but each so that the cold war don't become global and nuclear For Truman, this situation is psychologically exhausting. In his diary he writes: what the hell to be the president of I would rather be The American President other than &quot;the white prison&quot;. In Korea, the conflict is bogged down and it is an event totally Stalin will disappear. March 1, 1953, Dacha of Kuntsevo, Stalin now lives here as a recluse. The man who does locked himself in a paranoid delirium. He is afraid of being murdered. That night, he drank a lot. In the night, For ten hours he is dying without anyone Everyone is too scared He agonized alone. And all those who could have healed him, He could have recovered. When the old acolytes arrive, the Khrushchevs, the Berias, and all those people Because it could be blamed on them, but the doctors are afraid. They don't even dare to make a diagnosis And he said to them: and pay attention to what you discover. Lack of proper care. After four days of agony, on March 5, 1953, As soon as the news was known, five million people All want to see the remains of the one for a quarter of a century. Many people God be praised. Many others and they were stunned by the fact The third feeling that dominated &quot;what will happen now?&quot; The whole world is in shock. While Molotov and relatives everyone thinks next. In Moscow, peoples hope put an end to the tensions. Expectations will soon be disappointed. Eight years of permanent conflict and lava between have so shaped the world, that it is impossible The Cold War initiated by Stalin and to shake