(glass shatters) - This guy is stealing and this guy took my package off a porch, but what they don't realize is this is the final glitter And for the final year, the glitter is delivered by drones. (drones whirring) (drones clattering) Five years ago, when these from my porch, little did on an otherwise unremarkable would set in motion a series of events that would unleash buckets of would-be porch pirates nationwide and eventually lead to the takedown of a $60 million international crime ring. So today, not only will when you combine autonomous and then what happens when with a bunch of car thieves, with an update on what happened to those massive scam call and exposed in India. Now, if you're new here, is that after that package the police wouldn't do anything about it even when presented with the evidence. So at that point, I knew I was gonna have to use to go full &quot;Home Alone.&quot; - Ow! - Yes! - [Mark] And seeing how this is the final glitter bomb video, I think of how the box design has Out of the gate in year one, where when you took the this cup would spin, unleashing a pound of the and then hidden inside we had four phones, plus in an effort to encourage the thief to get rid of the box, so And that went pretty well. So we spent the entire next where we doubled the amount of fart spray and drastically improved the formula, which ended up nearly (Macaulay coughs) - Oh, I still smell it. (Macaulay coughs) God. - [Mark] We also switched and added a meaningless countdown- - [Computer] Five, four. - [Mark] And some fake police chatter- - [Police] Seems the package just to make things more exciting. Then, for year three, we doubled the fart spray to a total of four and added a handle the thief would be tempted to grab, which we covered in that And for the previous two years, the package thieves would right away, which covered up the cameras. So we added these posts that would passively pop out, which made it impossible once you'd removed it. - [Computer] 14, 13. - [Mark] We also added and made a doormat that had these conductive so we could keep the until the moment it was stolen. Then for Glitter Bomb 4.0, as it would get shot complements of these two boxing gloves attached to pneumatic pistons. We also added an actual car horn (horn beeping) and redesigned the cup so that by using the centrifugal force generated from spinning, you could passively get three instead of losing it Then for the porch, we that would slide over and so the homeowners wouldn't have to worry about bringing it in. And we were guaranteed to when the light was better. And all of that brings us to I knew this was gonna be the last year, so I decided to go for broke and attempt the biggest redesign to date. And this is a terrible idea, by the way. In engineering, if something conventional wisdom states you should basically change nothing but pretend like you changed a lot. So for starters, last year, we for a total of 20 milliliters, and for this year, because we have a one-liter tank. And for those of you that's 50 times more fart spray. To pull this off, instead of like before, now, we that continually forces the and basically never lets up. And because I can't exactly explain how much worse something - Aww! - [Mark] ...this is a sensor of particulates in the air, the more intense the smell. And if we place last year's it measures 250 particulates whereas this year's tops out at 750, which means it's not only but it's gonna be three Now, to house that massive we had to expand the which means we add room underneath it to house the brains of the system on an upgraded custom that communicates directly And quick shout-out to 'cause last year, we found where we were placing the boxes. So this year, they hooked us up, and let us put them all on their network. Then for the glitter delivery mechanism, the idea was to hack and rewrite their code where they could fly themselves without needing to be in So the idea for this year is the thief would bring the bait package back to their house, then remove the lid, which would lower these two doors, allowing the drones to And so instead of a single from a spinning cup like before, the drones would just leaving millions of tiny not to take stuff that isn't yours. And as part of our code rewrite, if the proximity sensors they'll just casually fly themselves to a different part of the room. And all of that perfectly because while they're fully distracted dealing with the drones, the box starts to drastically at a rate of one liter per minute. This design was ambitious and arguably at a much higher but then we took it one step further by designing a sister box that could be used for a car break-in. Since I live near San Francisco, which is the smash-and-grab two years ago, we went which placed the box in a - [Thief] I could bang it. I could bang... (alarm blaring) (color lines beeping) - [Mark] And while tempting, to have a couple drones flying around inside a moving vehicle, so this box could be triggered and can activate the fart spray And then right before the nozzles kick in, this 360 cam pops up to And if at any point the camera senses it's being tampered with, just like one of those it will retract itself So after about 10 months and testing, we set them and in a bunch of cars, and we waited. And we didn't have to wait long. (glass smashes) (upbeat music) - [Thief] Brand new in the box, bro. - [Man] It's your guys's now! - [Thief] Huh? Check it out. I guess it's mine now. - [Man] Yeah. (laughs) - [Thief] Guess this - [Man] I forgot I was but they just pulled out a gun? - [Thief] Yeah, they (box beeping) (alarm blaring) I don't think we can... (machine whirs) - [Computer] 15, 14, 13. Three, two, one. (alarm blaring) Activation complete. Recovery sequence initiated. (police radio chattering) - [Mark] And I really appreciate especially because when they just decided to make (color lines beep) When we retrieve this it was completely destroyed, But thanks to those blazing we're able to recover the - [Woman] But our neighbor here... Put it down a little. Our neighbor here, he has a camera. That's what I was gonna give (woman laughs) No way. The new one, huh? - [Man] Yeah, it's the new version. - [Woman] Can we just leave - [Man] Yeah, we'll leave - [Woman] 'Cause we're not trying to- - [Man] Bring attention to us. - [Woman] I'm not saying - [Mark] So they eventually took this home and were apparently pretty about where they got it from. (kid gasps) - [Kid] It's a VR. It has the handles and everything. - [Kid] So they go for like 400 bucks? - [Kid] Keep it. Keep it. - [Kid] Yeah, you can make - [Kid] I kinda wanna open it. Do you wanna open it? - [Kid] Let's open it. (alarm blaring) - [Kid] They were (beeps) lying! - [Kid] Mom! Mom, I think it is a bomb. - [Both] Mom! - [Woman] Get it out of there! (camera clattering) (color lines beep) - [Mark] And in addition to porches, just like in years past, we placed some boxes by we can track the number of good Samaritans that will call the number on - [Kid] It's for me? - [Woman] It's for you. - [Kid] Yay! - [Woman] Yah, yah. (sighs) (alarm blaring) (machine whirring) - [Computer] 15, 14, 13, 12... (color lines beep) (alarm blaring) - Mom! I think it's a scam! It's a (beep) scam. I knew it. - Scary. (beep) you, YouTubers. (machine whirring) - [Woman] What do you think this is? - [Kid] Yeah, (beep) this is a YouTuber. They do this to scam people. - [Computer] 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, nine, eight, seven, six, Activation complete. (color lines beep) - [Mark] Switching gears for a minute, for the past two years, I've experimented with in a parked car up in San Francisco because it's considered of the world, and things are so bad now, it's not even just the parked cars that are getting targeted. They average 73 car break-ins people have resorted to just hoping the thieves can that there's no valuables inside, so they won't smash the And for the past two years, while we did get the glitter bombs stolen, all we could really do was just play an alarm sound - [Thief] Hell naw! - ...'cause they never And after doing some research, it turns out there's a reason for that. It's actually a fairly organized system called a fencing operation, where the cards will go out in groups, and then immediately afterwards, they'll bring it to a in exchange for the most like laptops. But the gut punch is like a passport or don't really hold value for the thieves, so they just get thrown in the trash. And now that we knew they in the car, we designed the so that even if they just once the proximity sensor it was stolen and the box texted us, we could track them and a simple text message and activate the fart spray So we headed up to the city and placed our modified car and commenced our stakeout. And you can see this and this guy gets out and And then a little while later, and he sees it, too, and Then not too long after that, and once again, they clearly see the box, but they just leave it sitting right there without even breaking a window. And after observing all that it was the size of the So we removed the heart and all the other critical and placed them into a smaller box. And while it occupied a smaller footprint, it maintained all the same while still looking like So the next day, we put but this time, someone came by and actually smashed the window, only we didn't see them And our working assumption was that he just wasn't able but when we checked the footage, Not only did he once again intentionally not steal a smaller box, but the real reason for was to pull the backseat which means if you take nothing you should know putting is not a solution to keep The reason they break these but it seems like nothing is missing is because they're pulling down the seat to quickly check what's And at this point, it but we realized they'd adapted. Word must have gotten out from in previous years that a sitting out in plain sight (alarm blaring) And as an engineer, I never but I know the process to and that's trying and failing and tweaking over and over again. So while we did have a and a busted window, which meant we now had a plan, and that plan was to shrink to fit it into a backpack. That did mean we had to like losing the camera and down to this improvised pouch. But to make sure that we sprayed it on this chair, and not only did it still but we left that chair outside to air out and confirmed a few days later it was still in real bad shape. So with renewed hopes, we this time with two backpacks parked in two different spots, they both got hit within about (glass shatters) (glass shatters) Once again, you can see And there's two interesting Number one, if you look and compare it to the jacket you can see it's the same guy, suggesting they probably which means they probably versus a new visiting car. So I felt especially honored that a trained professional even if it was possibly just to find a belt. And number two, you can see even breaking the glass. The thing with tempered glass until it isn't. And while this guy looks just casually pushing his hand through, what you don't see on his is a sharp ceramic chunk or sort of like this. And as you can see here, to concentrate the force (glass shatters) it safely crumbles to But more importantly than all that, now we had both boxes while we tracked them both watching as they made their way around, stopping periodically to hit more cars. - [Thief] We could go around, or you could get in this car right now. - [Thief] All y'all seeing that Nissan? - [Thief] Go go go. Go go go go. - [Thief] I thought that was They had two big (beep) suitcases, and they let me steal their stuff. - [Mark] And after they each drove around for about 10 minutes, we sent a command to commence Operation Air Freshener. (spray whirring) And unfortunately, because down so small sort of last minute, the mic was in the same So we don't know exactly what was said, but what we do know is after the pump started, they tossed the whole bag from the car. And the best part about this the pump and spray are so the only possible way they could have located the source is if they sniffed And as our test showed, they'll continue sniffing it for weeks. (color lines beeping) And in the second car, it was - [Thief] This is a I'm not doing it if it's a - [Mark] Only in this case, because the pump ran a we got to hear them - [Thief] What the (beeps) is that? - What is that? - What is that? Look at it. I dunno what to do. - [Mark] And about 20 (camera clatters) met the exact same fate as the first. (color lines beep) All right, so to wrap up, I'll we've seen a decreasing and a steadily increasing And maybe people are or perhaps everyone just knows what a glitter bomb looks like now, but I love the idea that at some point, someone's package wasn't stolen because a would-be porch and had second thoughts. One thing that's not conjecture, however, is after so many of you where we infiltrated and glitter-bombed those three terrible scam it got the attention of some international and from the press and those three centers that for more than a decade, doing scamming the most vulnerable amongst us of their life savings, all got shut down, with their top officials arrested. So thanks to all of you and of course, thanks to these none of this would've ever happened. Being an engineer is the best, because you can make But what's the first step? How do you get started down that path? Well, I'll tell you exactly how. It's called the CrunchLabs Build Box, and it gets delivered right and then we build it together, while I teach you all the juicy It's basically like Mark Rober video every month where you learn a new that will have you not just but more importantly, So you're developing resiliency - Yes! - [Mark] On top of that, the like this super dope art machine where we learn about linkages, or in the spirit of the which you can use to prank your family, or I suppose, in some cases, yourself. So if you wanna embark on while there's still time just head on over to crunchlabs.com or use the link in the video description, where we're giving it away two months free as a holiday special. (logo chimes)