Etruscan is a dead language. It's as dead Not only has it had no native speakers it isn't written or read or spoken or used It has no living descendants and the inscriptions we have aren't even fully Etruscan is a closed case, easy to classify, but all dead languages are To talk about these undead tongues, I'd the reptile of languages himself, Lingo Lizard. The main way that languages go extinct, especially gaining dominance in the region and leaving people Parents don't pass the language slowly loses speakers, until there are none left. But what happens if one of these This exactly what happened with Manx. Manx is a Celtic language, between Ireland and Britain. The language when English was made the primary language and English became the only language that The last Manx speaker, Ned Maddrell, died in movement already started. People took to to see how they spoke, and some adult activists The revitalisation movement has only gotten more prevalent since then. Now there are over there are Manx immersion schools, adults children are using it in play, and there may Manx is very much a revived but has been brought back to life, and can This is practically a textbook and the biggest example of linguistic Though there is a case to be made for calling speakers. A dormant language is one that has community or ethnic group associated with learned and preserved for cultural purposes If there's a significant community of can a language really be labeled dead or After all, if Modern Standard does that make it a dead Classical Arabic is a great example used primarily for religious purposes within a Other liturgical languages include Sanskrit for and there's like an important one in One of the things these have in common meeting the base level criteria for While a liturgical language doesn't necessarily beliefs continues to be practiced for hundreds used at its inception is likely to fade The latter happened to Classical Arabic. While caliphates, both officially and in daily varieties that have been diverging from each other These varieties, or dialects if are often noticeably different from What makes things more complicated is that Modern Standard Arabic, or MSA for short, which is used in formal contexts MSA is also heavily based on Classical Arabic, vocabulary to describe modern concepts. Most Arabs both called &quot;al-Fusha&quot; (&quot;lfSH~&quot;), translating When distinguished, Classical Arabic is called &quot;heritage Fusha&quot;, and MSA is called &quot;Fusha While the modern varieties of Arabic have taken role of official language, Classical Arabic being called Quranic Arabic. While again it has an important role in Muslim society today, But on the topic of liturgy, we're of a language that has been used for a in readings, in ceremonies... Coptic. Coptic is used by the Copts, an ethnoreligious mostly native to Egypt. Linguistically, recent development of the Egyptian language, so It's used as a liturgical language by both the so it remains in daily usage, but is cited as it's a dead language, but there's remnants Well, there are some things that make Coptic Arabic... it's a bit unclear when the language Some sources, like James Allen's Coptic state that it was spoken until Other writers, like Samuel Rubenson, dead by the 13th century, at which point, language known only by those who That's a difference of 400 years. Then, there are reports that would suggest there late 19th century. Mind you, these accounts are a far closer to the modern day than other authors surrounding the language much more believable: This blog post from 2011 claims that there use this language as their daily vernacular doesn't work anymore, and I can't find that to Caroline, I just mean I can't confirm Numerous blogs and forum posts cite this which says that Copic remains the spoken and gives us the story of Mona Zaki, a woman Here, we have direct names and details, which we look up Mona Zaki is a famous Egyptian I mean, two people can have the same name, detail made me do a double take. I mean, I mean, hang on, it... it doesn't Actually, as far as I'm aware, this is a fairly is this guy who wrote this article? Where did he Well, I'm going to go ahead and guess he's the a freelance reporter based in Egypt, who it's not actually accurate to call it an article, stating that Mayton's opinion pieces independent review because he made up This doesn't prove that his articles of course, but a journalist known for inventing making up a fake source and fake quotes and None of this disproves that Coptic exists. often like to believe. They're called There might be Coptic speakers left in the revitalisation efforts that took place some Coptic nationalists didn't raise their kids language has generally been deemed a failure Now that's no substitute for empirical we have to assume that the language is dead, in the way we speak about these languages, we loop Why are the those things seen as and a language having no native speakers. Well, the obvious answer is that we have of Linguistics, for instance, tells us that a language of any community, but why do we use that Death implies something final, but there is it's in everyday use in churches, it's in writing. I think this is something that can be carried Where revival is often thought of as digging up cleaning it up, restoring it... where the dead language is holding on, bubbling This is in no way meant to minimise the the work that goes into it, or the very real place across the globe... but we cannot merely This binary will end up hindering our into how language knowledge actually works. have a very good ear for what is right or wrong Sometimes, languages just keep existing, like Classical Arabic or that or evolve into new forms. Sometimes, languages It's happening to Manx, and