Call me basic but &quot;You're basic&quot; but I love ketchup. I mean I wouldn't put it on a steak because I'm not a psycho but really french fries are just a socially acceptable way for me to get ketchup to my mouth. But would I feel the same Like with this 1787 recipe for white ketchup from England. Who knows! But thank you to Hellofresh for sponsoring my attempt to make it as I explore the history of ketchup this time on Tasting History. So before we get started I have an Next spring I am publishing the long-awaited much-anticipated Tasting History cookbook, ta-dah! What a lovely cover and it's actually already available for pre-order online and will be coming out on April 25th 2023. It has some of the best recipes from the show from melas zomos to parmesan ice cream and there will be new recipes that I haven't done here on the show yet. So I will put links in the description to where you can buy that pretty much everywhere that you can buy books and I will make sure to keep you updated as we get closer to the release date but for now let us focus on ketchup or is it catsup? Ketchup. Catsup. Ketchup. Catsup. Now as the debate over the spelling of ketchup and that is that ketchup has tomatoes right? Well maybe today but not in the past. Heck it wasn't even always red and this is just such a recipe for one of those off-colored ketchups. It comes from the sixth edition of 'The Lady's Assistant by Mrs. Charlotte mason from 1787. &quot;White Ketchup. Take one quart of white wine, pint of elder vinegar, and one quart of water, half a pound of anchovies with their pickle, half a pound of horse-radish scraped, one ounce of eschalots bruised, one ounce of white pepper bruised one ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs cut in quarters. Boil all together till half is consumed, then strain it off; when it is cold, bottle it for use. It is proper for any white sauce, or to put into melted butter.&quot; A considerably well written recipe considering it's from the 18th century but it doesn't hold a candle to the very easy to follow recipes from So recently with the move and everything I have been working overtime after a full day of editing or writing or whatever I've been doing, the last thing that i want to do is go grocery shopping and even pick out what's for dinner. Hellofresh to the rescue. They deliver full meals to my door in sustainable packaging so there is no shopping to be done. And all of the ingredients are pre-portioned so I don't have to fuss with a bunch of prep work and with over 55 weekly options I can always find something I love and they have meals for everyone: pescetarian, vegetarian, fit and wholesome and right now they have some wonderful light summery dishes like this Italian chicken over lemony spaghetti with fresh zucchini and chili flakes the meal was filling but light and it made for the perfect summer pasta dish. So go to hellofresh.com and use codetastinghistory16 for up to 16 free meals plus 3 surprise gifts. That's tastinghistory16 at hellofresh.com. Now for this recipe what you'll need is: 1 quart or 1 liter of white wine, 2 cups or 475 milliliters of elderflower vinegar, That is the one thing that is not easy to find but you can get it online, I'll put a link to but you can also make your own if you have fresh elder flowers. You just fill up a jar and then put some white wine vinegar in it and in about two weeks you'll have elderflower vinegar. 1 quart or one liter of water, a half pound or 225 grams of anchovies, and these need to be salted or brined anchovies and not anchovies in oil because you actually need that salt or what A half pound or 225 grams of horseradish, 1 ounce or 28 grams of shallots, 1 ounce or 28 grams of whole white pepper, 1 ounce or 28 grams of whole mace. By I used that amount of mace like 20 recipes of anything else so this has now become one of the most expensive dishes that I've ever made simply based on some of these And a quarter once or seven grams of nutmeg cut into quarters, and that's a lot easier said than done because quartering a nutmeg can be a tricky business because it's round, so just be very, very careful. Now first we need to bruise our shallots and white pepper, and the shallots very clear you just kind of mash them a little bit but don't like grind them up. The white pepper is a little different because I've never heard that term bruise associated with like a hard peppercorn so I'm going to assume it's the same thing. She wants us to grind it but not into a because later on we're going to strain things so that's what we're going to do. Then take a large pot and add the anchovies, horseradish, shallots, pepper, mace, and nutmeg. Then pour in the white wine, the elderflower vinegar, and the water and give everything a good stir. Then set it over high heat and bring it to a boil. So yeah... elephant in the room this white ketchup ain't white. I'm thinking that the name either comes from the very many white ingredients that we put in like the horseradish, the white wine, the elderflower and the white pepper, or it's because she says to add it to a white sauce and so that's actually what I'm going to do at the very end I'm going to mix into some bechamel, and I've already made this on the channel so I'll put a link in the description to where I made that. But first this needs to finish boiling and put me in mind of one of my very first videos and that was quick garum, and when I made that video I was living in a little apartment and had a bunch of neighbors so i couldn't make fermented fish sauce which is how garum is supposed to be made but now I have a backyard so I do plan on making actual fermented garum. The interesting thing is this recipe for the boiling fish that reminds me of the quick garum makes sense because it turns Now while today's recipe put me in mind of the fermented fish sauce that ketchup descends from where they still use a lot of fermented fish sauce. The oldest recipe comes from the Qimin Yaoshu from around 544 and it tells of a Han emperor who chased these barbarians all the way to the sea, and when he got there he smelled this interesting and very pungent aroma. He asked his emissary to go figure out what this was and &quot;It is simply a fermented paste made from fish entrails... take the shark, and mullet and wash them well. Mix them with a moderate amount of salt and place them in a jar. Seal tightly and incubate in the sun. It will be ready in 20 days in summer, 50 days in spring, or fall, and 100 days in winter.&quot; Later this type of fish sauce would proliferate throughout Southern China, Vietnam, Malaysia and down to Indonesia and the word to describe it kind of changed from language to language. One was kachiap in an old dialect of Thai, or kichap in Malay and at the time these could refer to several types of soy Now Dutch traders seemed to enjoy it and began shipping it back to Europe, and then in the late 17th century British traders came into contact and by 1711 in 'An Account of the Trade in India' the British trader Charles Lockheer said that &quot;Soy comes in tubs from Japan, and the best ketchup from Tonqueen; yet good of both sorts are made and sold very cheap in China.&quot; And soon after versions of ketchup began appearing in recipes in many English cookbooks. The problem was by that time nobody really knew what was in the original sauce, and the dictionaries of the time didn't help at all because they gave definitions such as &quot;a high East-India sauce&quot; that being the entire definition from a slang dictionary from 1698 and if you are looking for a bit of diversion later on might I suggest thumbing through 'A New Dictionary of the Terms Ancient and Modern of the Canting Crew' It was supposedly written to catalog the words that were being used at the time by London's more unsavory population, and it claims it's &quot;Useful for all sorts of people, (especially foreigners) to secure their money and preserve their lives.&quot; It's bawdy and it's hilarious at least to a modern reader so I will put a link in the description to where you can read that online, but I digress. Now with such a vague description for ketchup it kind of left the recipe writers of England at a loss, and so they were forced to start figuring out what this sauce might be, and so lots of different recipes for both ketchup and soy sauce start to pop up none of which have any soy in them and I don't think any of which are fermented. While some still do feature fish others are as diverse as walnut ketchup, a favorite of Jane Austen. Pudding ketchup which was more of a sweet and spiced brandy. Oyster ketchup, pickled mango, orange juice, onions, mussels, lobster, grapes, cranberries cucumber, apples, liver and rum just to name a few. There was even one recipe which called for a gallon of strong stale beer to be added the anchovies, ginger, shallots and mushrooms. And mushrooms are actually what became the dominant ketchup of the 18th and early 19th century. Much of those early mushroom ketchups were actually likened to soy sauce, at least in its consistency, and sometimes it was actually called mushroom soy and then sometimes it would be mushroom ketchup, they used the term interchangeably neither of which had any soy, but one reason that mushroom ketchup became so popular was that it kept for a very long time. One 18th century writer claimed that he &quot;had a bottle of this sort of ketchup, that has been opened and set by above a year, that has not received the least damage.&quot; And it seems that mushroom ketchup was the last type of ketchup that was okay to put on steak, because in William Kitchiner's 'The Cook's Oracle' he begins the chapter on broiling with a poem that ends &quot;And for skill in such cookery your credit will fetch up, if your broils are well-seasoned with good mushroom ketchup.&quot; And just like the recipe today it's not meant to be used as a condiment but more as an ingredient to help flavor sauces, or gravy, or stock. Kitchiner also includes He says that &quot;those who are for a superlative ketchup, will continue the boiling till the mushroom juice is reduced to half the quantity; it may then be called double cat-sup or dog-sup.&quot; [Haughty laughter] Hilarious! And to make this wonderful pun he has to change the way that he's spelled ketchup all the rest of the way through the cookbook but it seems that that's okay because I found over a dozen ways to spell ketchup in the 18th and 19th century. Though by 1831 that number had reduced to three: &quot;Ketchup, catsup or catchup. These three words but spelled by nobody.&quot; And this book 'The Domestic Chemist' says that true ketchup is only made with either mushrooms or walnuts, so by 1831 the fish ketchup, the original ketchup is now a false ketchup as are all of those other types of ketchup including the tomato. Now the first tomato ketchup recipes appear shortly after 1800, and the first published recipe comes from 1812 by horticulturalist James Mease who prefers to call tomatoes 'love apples'. But his recipe which had brandy and spices was much more like a tomato sauce than anything that we would recognize as ketchup and it didn't really take off. See tomatoes were still coming into their own after centuries of Americans and Northern Something I go into detail about in my video on tomatoes, and the reputation of the tomato was a little tarnished in those first ketchup recipes because it was made in a copper pot typically, and the acidic tomato would have a chemical reaction with the copper that would become ever so slightly... poisonous, strike one. Strike two came in the Other ketchups could last years on the shelf after bottling but tomato ketchup could last maybe months before mold and yeast began to grow, not a bad thing if you're making it at home and you're going to eat it in a few days but around 1837 they started commercially producing tomato ketchup bottling it and putting it on store shelves. So it's a bad thing when your product goes bad after a couple months, and even a worse thing when to preserve it you use benzoic and salicylic acid or even coal tar to help the color turn red. And in 1863 prominent food writer Pierre Blot cautioned people to &quot;Beware what is sold under the name of catsups... many cases of debility and consumption come from eating such stuff.&quot; And another writer claimed that the tomato ketchup sold in stores was &quot;Poor stuff, made of dubious ingredients and the And so bottled tomato ketchup earned a reputation for being &quot;Filthy, decomposed and putrid vegetable substances&quot;. Strike three! But just when you thought tomato ketchup was out &quot;And then a hero comes along&quot; And that hero was Henry J. Heinz. Actually he was not the only one to do this there were several people working on the problem, he's just the most famous and he's really not a hero but he was very, very good at marketing. Now Heinz actually got his start in the exciting world of horseradish which using his mother's own recipe he bottled and sold. What made him different was that he bottled it &quot;Look! I'm using clear glass, hence I have nothing to hide.&quot; His pitch worked and the business called Heinz, and Noble took off and they started selling other things including pickles and sauerkraut, incurring a lot of debt along the way which was and all the creditors wanted their money back. Heinz and Noble went bust, but Heinz was not deterred. It took him a few years to get back up on his feet but and they established the F. &amp; J. Heinz tomato catsup to the roster and a really benefited from his whole &quot;look it's and it was just a shtick because actually it had it included all of those preservatives that the other guys ketchup did, and it wasn't until an executive from Heinz attended the Pure Food and Drug Congress of 1904 that the company saw the writing on the wall and decided that they would be the first ones to get rid of all the preservatives. GF Mason, the head of the Heinz research laboratory spent a long time trying to figure out a way to make a preservative-free ketchup that would hold and with mixed results, but it had to happen so eventually they released one that boasted &quot;We do not use any benzoate of soda, any drug, any chemical, or any coloring or adulterant of any kind.&quot; Heinz knew ketchup even though it was quite a bit more expensive than any of his competitors sold like gangbusters and it led Heinz to become a strong proponent of the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906. They also changed up the recipe to include a lot more sugar, vinegar, and salt partly to help it stay preserved for longer and it also made it a lot thicker, and it gave us the flavor that we are acquainted with today when we say ketchup. Now supposedly the ketchup exiting a classic glass Oh, and that 57 that they use the Heinz 57 varieties yeah it doesn't mean anything. See he'd seen an advertisement for shoes and they said we have 21styles, and he thought that that was catchy just having a number associated with it so he decided I'll do the same thing and put 57 varieties even though they had 57 varieties of nothing. i=It that's what Heinz was good at was the marketing. It changing his spelling from catsup to ketchup with a K which thought it would make it stand out and clearly it and most people today spell ketchup with a K, as does the actual recipe that we're making today from 1787 for white ketchup which is also really good marketing because the ketchup is not white but regardless once it's boiled down by half, strain it, and let the liquid cool completely before putting it into a bottle. Now again just as you wouldn't typically drink soy sauce by itself you would put it into something as an ingredient to help with the flavor I'm going to do what she suggests and put it into this and if you haven't seen that video on bechamel and the wonderful yet tragic story of Francois Vatel I will make sure that that is the video that pops up after this one. And here we are white ketchup from 1787. Okay so before I try the ketchup in the bechamel I'm gonna try it just by itself. That actually smells really good. Kind of... sweet which is weird because there's nothing in there that should make it sweet smelling. Ahhhh. This is bound to go bad. It's interesting so like water but it's a little bit thicker. Let's give it a shot. [Instant regret] It's not sweet. OH! Yeah, that is not meant to be eaten alone. Woah. Okay, besides the fact that it's super salty. It's just- it's like concentrated flavor, and I don't know what flavor. I really don't know what flavor because I'm not tasting any specific flavor, it's all of them. It's really tangy though, that's what I'm getting now. Wow! Blew out my- blew out my buds. I'm gonna try the white sauce with a little bit mixed in, it's just Let's give this a shot. Now that is good. That's how it's supposed to be eaten, as she said. That is how it's supposed to be eaten. So when it's mixed with something kind of making it almost like almost like a tartar sauce but with like a weird umami very savory note to it. That's very interesting, I'm curious what it tastes like with a french fry because that eat ketchup. [Crunch] Sure that's kind of nice. :) So while I'm not going to be swapping it out for my beloved tomato ketchup i do think it's pretty good granted i wouldn't make it again. It's not good enough to go to all the trouble and the but it's fun experiment so make sure to Links in the description and I will