No, a helicopter cannot fly 90 degrees on its side like that. That's crazy. Hey, fly peeps! I am coming at you. My name is Andy Stumpf. I spent just under 17 My name is Adm. Jamie Foggo. Peter Rhee. I'm Nicholas Moran. Today, I'll be looking Warship scenes. Tank-battle scenes. Battle-wound scenes. Parachuting scenes. Underwater action scenes from movies and seeing how real they really are. If you need to cross the You know, there's no in the middle of it and give If you are trying to sneak up on somebody, you would either cross the or cross the entire thing below the water. Or go farther down or maybe find a log that's across it. You don't even have to get (dramatic music) (gunshot) All right, stop right there. I have been asked about this because people absolutely love it and they want to know how we And here's the answer: we don't. Because right, you'd never You just absolutely know that somebody's gonna fall when you shoot them in the head, right? Because why wouldn't you? What could possibly go wrong? But you gotta remember all of a .762 or a .300 Win Mag round The suppressor that's on the rifle, it's basically a muffler and and it drastically reduces the But bullets, when they they're super sonic. So it makes a crack and and it's much quieter. That's not what that person was shooting. The whole point of doing the and lowering them into the water as if it was just eating it's 'cause you're trying to be sneaky. So going through all this and then cracking off it defeats the entire purpose. It just, they're so, it's (dramatic music) Where you link up with a submarine in the middle of the ocean, They were on a zodiac, which is gonna have probably a So they could easily go from out into international water would wanna meet and do that, (dramatic music) (door clanging shut) Yeah, wow. So they obviously had direct support from the United States and I'm actually surprised they which stands for Seal Delivery Vehicle. In essence, it is a miniature submarine. It's smaller, harder to be discovered, and you can move people and and then go back to the submarine too 'cause you can go back and that you departed from. You are in your dive gear and it can be up to 14 hours. A lot of the times you're in dry suits. Dry and warm are two very different things the people should not confuse. They nailed it. It's very plausible that on an SDV operation. I'm gonna give 'em a 10 on that. The sniper water river catch is a zero. It actually might be a negative number. (dramatic music) Is there a more obvious way to let somebody know that you're coming than white and orange jumping directly over the top of them. Surprise! You didn't see that coming. I've worn dive fins on my and actually was falling More often than not though, you put your feet through that and you actually taped But if you're gonna land in the water, you're gonna want to have fins on you. In case you need to or exert yourself, you're (dramatic music) (laughing) Yes. And they had a fleet, a full fleet of submersibles I am not aware of any engagement of human beings where anything We are not trying to get like bottom line. We use it as a way to or to get from A to B, To like, well I don't Like bloop, here we You didn't see us, surprise! We're not looking to So no, we're not bringing or any of that stuff. (dramatic music) I like how they're cutting the hoses. Unfortunately, there is and an exhalation hose and they if they caught the wrong one. We always had dive knives on us, but it's for like cutting gear There was never a thought in my mind ever of pulling that out with the It was for anything but that. Like Phillip's head screws, using the tip of your, like that's the only use dive knives for. (dramatic music) I like the idea of what I'll call that the Gen One Spare Air, which with a canister of that size I feel like you have about So he certainly wouldn't (dramatic music) And then the concussive Concussion and the way that is a very, very real thing. Let's just say that was That would probably kill the people inside of that contained area, but it probably would especially if there's 'cause that stuff will bounce out as well. So it's plausible, but I would say you would wanna get outta before that thing went off, like out of the water I don't even know if I can give - I found door number (dramatic music) - Oh that's a national treasure, alright. You know jumping off of, I think it was the aircraft carrier, that's probably gonna be 50, 60 feet. I'm here for that. That's definitely survivable. You could definitely do that. (dramatic music) So we navigated with, we and we had three really that we used to get to stare The first one you already The next entertaining and lastly a stopwatch. That was it. We dive in pairs, but only one person gets So somebody else out there is This dive is taking forever. I don't even have anything to look at.&quot; So sometimes when I was the buddy I would just swim on top of my dive buddy and just look at the navigation board too, because I was so bored. I just wanted to look at numbers slowly just like creeping around. (dramatic music) - [Sadusky] Can you - Sir, it's the Hudson, - So all these people that are gonna see the bubbles. This would be an example would be better than open circuit. Because even though that guy every time they exhale, It's actually really easy from above when they're Open circuit, you can see the bubbles. Closed circuit, you can be sneaky. It's just a closed loop system that only allows the gas to 'cause obviously you wouldn't and you push it through it pulls out the carbon dioxide and boom, you're off and running. There's 100% chance that But if you wanted to do it I'd say closed circuit is a better option. I'll give 'em a seven. - Hi, my name is Peter Rhee. I served in the military for 24 years and I'm a trauma surgeon. I was one of the first Today, we're going to be (people yelling) - Jesus. - Bringing it in, bringing it in. - I said get his guts in now. (gunfire) - What they're trying to So a guy got hit, they're high velocity weapons, AK-47s out there getting hit and then you eviscerate your organs. They're making an attempt you can't do it. It doesn't work that way. The ones I saw were from through a little small plum size hole. You will shove everything as you're grunting and and then you can't shove it back in because it just pops right back out. So unless they're chemically it's a waste of time. In penetrating injury when we're and so on like that, the main thing is just get and stop the bleeding. If it's not your heart we can save you. If you don't hit those, - Hey, hey, look at me! - Now the one thing I is every time you get they make them spit blood Unless you get shot in the mouth or you have something and your throat up high. You don't vomit blood or anything like that. - Mayday, up! (man groaning) - Let's move! - The one thing I do like is they do show how difficult it is to move a heavy body out there. These are two to 300 pound and two guys pulling these I think that part's well done. (helicopter blades whirring) You'd never drop in a bird A bird's not gonna come down when they're gonna be shooting at a $40 million bird up in the air. It'll only land when it's a I'd give it about a six. - Expected fleet. Priority. He's gone. - It's a great movie. It's pretty well done. The triage in the field is very different than triage when you come You're not doing so much of this actually during the heat it's usually once the the There's four categories when we triage. So, he went through all they need your help, The guy's hollering and yelling. If they're yelling, they're And then he had one guy that's a priority, and then that guy was already dead. Confirming someone that's is not easy to do. I was in Ramadi when we had at one time from one bomb. We got 70 of these casualties just coming in and they and I was the triage officer. The first marine I got was expecting, but I couldn't tell for sure because I only had literally to decide whether he was dead or not, and there was no way we to work on them. So what you're doing is trying so you don't want to to which is very different than In civilian trauma we go full on top of one person for hours and hours. And that's not something I give it at nine. - Stay with me, stay with me. - Talk to me, guys, talk - Is that Kirk? (beep) man. - There's some realism in there. This is an outpost. This looks like Army. So army Italian base station. Army will usually have a medic or they'll have a physician's assistant. Usually with as much webbing and stuff, the unit that they're in, the housing unit is paper thin. So the bullets will go They should be a little bit more fortified with the Hesco barriers or dirt. You notice that the guy is bagging a guy 'cause he's not breathing well We don't do that out there. If they need CPR, that's wasting time because they need blood. - Medevac won't be here for a few hours, which means he needs fresh This is the only thing we can do. We're not sterile and we Our fresh blood is all - Gloves again with the bloody hands, that's not really realistic. They have gloves at this point. When I went out there, we started doing this for the first time, we actually started to really which is miraculous. It's unbelievably miraculous. We can't do that in the civilian world. But we did walking blood bank. In my unit in Ramadi, Charlie we had about 60-70 medics with us as well. The base was about 600 people. So we'd go to the chow hall and there would be a guy that screams out &quot;Walking blood bank.&quot; Everybody would spit out their food, go line up at my medical they'd lay down on a get a bag of blood. We would do a little test to see if they were So from that perspective, it's true. There's a lot of little mistakes in order to dramatize it and they can get away but you know, you wouldn't and giving them your blood At least they're wearing so I give 'em seven. (explosion) This is a really good scene. When that explosion you could see the boot It's a little bit unusual A shell coming in hitting the ground would take his legs off like that because seeing bilateral has been a really recent in previous wars. We didn't really see bilateral Before, in the other war movies, they would step on claymores and landmines and those were actually meant to take off your foot and your ankle. So the medics would come out and then you'd sniper the So it wasn't really supposed His was mangled below the knee, but obviously his was going to be close to what we were seeing in Iraq where they would just and bury them into the ground. We were seeing just legs blown sky high. (man grunting) I could do three hours on tourniquets. Blood loss is the number that we want to avoid. Some of the soldiers, they even wear tourniquets Actually what we are is that they put on your own tourniquets. The tourniquets are problematic because if you don't put it on right and if it's not on absolutely you'll bleed more and you'll bleed out. When you put it on, You gotta go full bore. And I tell you, putting a tourniquet on will be the most painful about three to four minutes. It's like your leg is falling off. So, it is something you It will save lives, but otherwise you will actually bleed more. (man groaning) - Here comes the morphine, It's gonna kick in real quick, Ralph. We're gonna get you shifted. - In the old days, morphine was good. We got scared of it because morphine can definitely kill you. If you take a person not a blood circulating then it can depress your cardiac function and then you can die, you So we've actually gone away We use a new drug called ketamine. While it provides a lot of relief of pain, it does not lower your blood pressure. So, that's the reason why we use it. The medics can do a lot and but a lot of the movies is, I think the audience doesn't is not a trauma surgeon. Trauma surgeon obviously did five years of general surgery, then two years of training So seven years of training The medic's job is to get 'em to us, not to clamp things in the field. It's pretty good. I'd say give it a nine. - My name is Admiral Jamie Foggo and I served in the Navy When I retired I took over as Dean of the Center of the Navy League here in Washington, DC. Today, we're gonna be looking (dramatic music) - Second torpedo to starboard beam! Bearing 1-2-0. (dramatic music) - &quot;Greyhound&quot; is an It tells and depicts with The Germans are depicted in the movie as deploying the wolf pack you see two torpedoes coming you know that's more than And these tactics were (dramatic music) - Meter, meter! (dramatic music) - So what you see on is an attack on the destroyer. I think that was very realistic. And you see the wake of the The propellers do something They create bubbles as they're and that creates a trail And so, a sharp lookout and it gives the commanding to conduct those drastic If it was nighttime, a lot of times it's even easier to see the torpedo because of the It kind of glows as it's coming at you. A lot of these torpedoes They had batteries and and they would go towards the target. Nowadays we have torpedoes and have a very long range. And so it was a different game back then, but in this case, absolutely accurate. (dramatic music) As far as the maneuverability is concerned of that destroyer, you have to keep in mind that displaces 50,000 tons. These are lighter ships nowadays, heavy destroyer in the United States Navy is about 7,800-8,000 tons. The propulsion systems the engines and the are made for speed and maneuverability. Particularly because in the they were not only going they were going after submarines. And that means you've gotta (dramatic music) (ships guns firing) The rounds that actually hit the water or penetrate the water, whether or not they actually As soon as you know a .50 typically it ricochets. If it does go beneath the water line, you lose velocity very quickly. So, it's highly unlikely that that would penetrate But again, you never know. (dramatic music) So he has to surface And then, while he's on the surface, they finish him off in pretty But you see what looks that are lowered to the deck plate level. As this projectile went in and it blew up, it may have caused secondary explosions. First there's an initial There's so much oil and fuel and weapons on board that submarine that, you know, once it took that initial and those shape charges This movie gets absolutely As far as realism, 10 outta 10. - Cradle lowered. - Right, I'll ram the projectile. - Easy! - When you ram that - Real easy. - This is one of the most accurate movies on how you load a 16-inch That projectile weighs 2,000 pounds. So you're essentially into the breach of that gun And you notice that the projectile, it's followed by these powder charges. This was a very accurate representation of how you load that gun. There are spark proof tools and everybody is very careful because you know that powder is obviously explosive and volatile and any mistake or any spark and blow up that turret. - 2-0-4 degrees, Calloway. (beeping) 2-0-4 degrees. - 2-0-4 degrees. - This very shiny brass and that's to allow the gun and see the direction that he's firing in. That's the way that we used to do it. Before we had these very and gun directors that are - My fire in the hole. (explosion) - I got a chuckle out of the fact that Tommy Lee Jones runs just before it's fired. We had, on the battleships, procedures to prevent sailors from being topside in proximity to those turrets because the over pressure of the blast blew 'em back, you know, And that's probably fairly accurate. Even today, with our missile systems, if you're launching from the nobody's up there when you're launching because there's gonna be as the weapon comes out the tube and you don't want anybody to get hurt. I'd give it a seven outta 10. (dramatic music) &quot;Battleship&quot; happens to be These are World War II era ships. They're not part of the but these ships are made to fight and when you're on one and you have a belt of armor around you, 12 to 17 inches thick to protect you, that's pretty reassuring. - Drop port anchor. - What? (anchor clanging) (water splashing) - The officer of the deck on the bridge uses the anchor on the by some of the aliens weapons. Frankly, that's pretty hokey. The amount of chain on a connected to the anchor is pretty long. You know, it's probably but we don't use anchors for that reason. We use anchors to more the ship in port and this is in the Pacific (guns firing) (dramatic music) One thing that the is it's so powerful that the ship actually moves When you fire a broad side, oh it can move significantly and you have to do a I'd probably give it a two. I think Hollywood took on the anchor in this case. - Hey, fly peeps, I am coming at you. And back in 2003, I became America's first serving two tours in Iraq. Today, I'll be looking at (dramatic music) (helicopter blades whirring) Flying in formation in We practice it a lot. We will land together, And in an environment like this where you have that mission say a flight of soldiers in this case, yeah that would absolutely (helicopter blades whirring) (explosion) Just everything about the insertion, them dropping. That's why we don't do static in combat because of the vulnerability and the helicopter has pretty when you're in that close to be able to get out really quick, a helicopter just doesn't move quick. A helicopter has to build up RPGs are a huge threat to helicopters, especially if we're flying But I remember flying in and it was early on in combat and I just saw these great clouds of mist and we were trying to figure out like what are those clouds of mist? And they were RPGs that had at 200 and 300 feet. And some of my buddies Huge threat. (helicopter blades whirring) (crashing) So the one I would say When that RPG hit the tail I thought it would've and it wasn't gliding down without power. And at the very end, if he tried to cushion which we're taught to do with the loss of tail rotor, we would've tried to circle around in the direction that it's spinning to have a little control. But it wouldn't have just landed flat like you saw in that video. So the guys in the back, hopefully they're tied in or they would just just like a car accident that twirls over and everybody gets ejected The reason I think they getting hit in the tail rotor just 'cause it's more dramatic. You get hit in the tail rotor, you're immediately gonna start spinning and go outta control. If you get hit in the main rotor, you just explode and fall out the sky. Which one's more exciting? On a scale of one to 10, nine. (dramatic music) (guns firing) Guns at the front of Is that realistic? Absolutely. I had a 20 millimeter it rolled around and very fast on target. So yes, 100% realistic. Only the pilots would fire that weapon. (dramatic music) You see two rocket launchers left, right then two missile There are 26 rockets in Then there are four That is actually a standard payload for an attack helicopter. (rockets firing) (explosions) The rockets are called 2.75-inch rockets. So they're about this big and they're pretty long. The rockets are just like bullets. You aim, you shoot, you pull, they go wherever wind shear impacts them. The hellfire missiles So they're guided by a laser A rocket, it impacts a small area. Let's say it's 20 feet, 30 feet. These rockets are as soon as they hit, they The missile has a lot more You could shoot a tank or a There are heat seeking missiles and missiles that can fly to But those aren't the kind of were on this aircraft. And number two, helicopters And they don't follow humans. And I doubt his jet pack had enough heat coming off 'cause it probably if that were the case. (dramatic music) There would've been no way going through the vortices I could easily see them being just like that. The payload, that was actually realistic. The heat seeking missiles, not so much. I'm gonna give it a seven. (explosion) (helicopter blades whirring) You can't fly through something like that. Unrealistic. Rotors would've already As hard as rotor blades look, they're very sensitive and And as soon as it impacts an object, you're not gonna be able to - Hurry up! - Because it's The Rock, with him hanging on the side. It's like hanging onto a car, right? Because most of the from a helicopter is on the It's not in the in the very center. So, the wind shear out of the middle. Totally unrealistic. It's just like the wheel of a car. It's never in one position. It's constantly moving. Where'd he get the piece When they showed it in that He was actually able It's just not gonna be stable like that. (person yelling) No, a helicopter can not fly 90 degrees on its side like that. That was crazy. I would give it a one. - Greetings all. I'm Nicholas Moran. I'm commissioned as an Armor Officer on M1 tanks and then M3 Bradleys. These days, my work as for the publisher of World of Tanks. Today we're gonna be looking (explosion) And that is absolutely accurate. The vast majority of had no idea that the enemy was there. And again, this is why in conjunction with infantry because they have more eyes than you do. They have better vision than you do. But more often than not, the first indication is when you get shot at. And knocking off either in an ambush in a row (people yelling) - 88, it's a goddamn tank. - With regard to the TCs in this case, keeping their heads out, there but certainly in the time all the way through the it would be in a head out position. The Western school of thought because what you don't see will kill you. The other school of thought, such as used by the Soviet was that you wanted to operate head down. So you close the hatch. No artillery could affect you, And the problem of course is the reverse. You aren't able to see So there is a balance to be struck. - Right, all tanks move forward. (tanks accelerating) - War daddy has decided for some reason that he's going to charge the enemy tank, I'm not sure I would've because that simplifies and just give them If you can have what's and then a maneuver element, then the enemy tank has a choice. He can engage the guy pumping accurate shots at you, or the German tank can who are coming around the side and the 76-millimeter actually would destroy a Tiger. (muffled yelling) Okay, so being obscured, the German tank has decided as opposed to just sit there and wait for whatever the The Germans were very, very The concept is called Auftragstaktik. These days we use a development of it called Mission Command. But the bottom line is you take the initiative, you And that is exactly what - Fivel, put it up his (beep) - I know to (beep) hit him. - The radical is accurate for And Shia, in this case is So you're gonna see Each graduation is for a type So if your target is let's say 800 yards, you will elevate the gun so is on the target. So the single biggest cause was range estimation error. If you get the range wrong, it doesn't matter if your aim is correct, you will go over or short. Which is why we now have to do all that mathematics for you. (bullets clanging) - Again! (dramatic music) - If you're in this sort of a knife fight, which I wouldn't recommend getting into. The first round set the engine alight, but that doesn't necessarily and turret can't still get a shot off. You say you shoot at a tank until it burns or changes shape. So keep shooting until you This scene is an easy nine. What &quot;Fury&quot; lacks in perhaps it more than makes up for an understanding the experience of being a tank crewman. (dramatic music) (gun squeaking) This is absolutely correct. There's gun crews on The tank is based off of which was a very late World War I tank built by both the UK and US. And at the time, British tanks, the heavy tanks had what The turret, that wasn't on the Mark VIII. (yelling) Shouting instructions to It's too loud. Inside a World War I tank, the entire middle of that tank It was massive noise. What he's doing there, That's the only way to communicate inside a World War I tank. (dramatic music) (explosion) Firing a gun with anything You're under risk of It's called petaling. When the gun barrel just and your gun is done. Oftentimes you'll see a tank on the end purely to stop any dirt at all from getting into it. And it's designed that you can actually shoot through the muzzle cap. (dramatic music) To my knowledge, on tank fighting has never been trained in any army. Personally, I'd have just used a pistol, but again, not very dramatic and it I would have to give the scene maybe a three on feasibility grounds. (dramatic music) A Tiger has appeared on the scene. A Tiger had a mythical It had a reputation because and because it had a heck of a gun, the 8.8 centimeter was lethal The problem was that it looks which is a lot more common. In actuality, historians on the western front ever actually met a Tiger. But for the purposes of (dramatic music) This was pretty realistic. Drivers are absolutely and they're utterly from the commander. So that's how you would low below the line of vision, below the the level of depression that the guns can aim at you. (tank squeaking) They're going for the wheels. Because the Tiger was a breakthrough tank, it was heavily armored everywhere. And if you're infantry, and you don't have high-velocity cannons, your best bet is to disable the tank and get what's called a mobility kill. To immobilize the tank. Your two choices are gonna be or the running gear. And the only thing that these sticky bombs are going to have any particular effect on will be the running gear. So the sticky bomb, it was in the manual, but it is also almost a The military is supposed to Late World War II era, you're Now the problem is that you of bazooka ammunition and a against something as So you're in desperation - Both sides! Get aboard! Get a grenade! - So now we see one of the problems with a tank going on its own. A tank shouldn't go on its but when you have infantry, an infestation we might crawling on your tank, there's a process that's called scratching What you do is you get on the radio, you call your buddy with a machine gun and he will machine gun your tank. Of course the bullets aren't you're in a tank, but it will very much the infantry that are (guns firing) And that's your example of delousing. So, the 20-millimeter anti-aircraft gun, like any anti-aircraft gun you aim that thing horizontally and you will do a number on infantry. If there's any big myth about tanks, it's probably that they're In reality, they're and they're absolutely of the Combined Arms team. You have the desperation You have this back scratching. You have the immobilization I mean this is easily on the nine scale. - Hi, I'm Mike Elliott, I served 11 years with the US Army Golden I have over 16,000 100 static line jumps and about Today we're gonna be looking at parachuting scenes in movies. (dramatic music) - Come on, come on, come on. - So I think you did With military free fall they have their O2 masks on, goggles. It's a lot of moving parts. So there is a possibility that It takes about 15 seconds and put it back to its helmet. You can hold your breath up So he had plenty of time to fix his mask and still leave the aircraft. (dramatic music) His body position is very correct here. He's in what we call a dive position. And it is so uber important to have the correct body position. Basically you have to learn So the wind is basically and chest area, which allows that wind to be so he can gain stability - 25,000 feet. - You did a very great Basically, HALO is high meaning you exit the You have to have some type in the aircraft as well as on your body. As far as the form is concerned, there's no different form with HALO. It's called the the box man Everything he's doing in Your knees are bent, your your arms are back. (dramatic music) That is a pretty gnarly looking storm. I have never had to jump and it's not even approved by the Federal Aviation Administration. With clouds, you cannot see the ground and you can get struck by lightning. And if you flying with other jumpers, now you at a risk of And when you slam into another it's gonna be some serious injuries. (heavy breathing) - 4,000. Deploy, deploy, deploy! - I do like that the body in this movie are correct. And if you're unconscious and you're going to be on your back because your arms and legs are the lowest portions of your body. So gravity will put you on your back. I would rate this a high seven for sure. All those are very unique maneuvers that could possibly happen. (air rushing) A total high five on this scene With a military free fall operation, each group that's exiting and you're guiding all the guys. So they're grouping around him so they can see what's going on. And that's the same formation they stay in during their exit and as As you see here, they Everything gets really, because you're either flying through NODs or just with your naked eye and you can't see obstacles, you can't see the ground coming up. And in the army you have from like the 82nd Air 1 Division and you have the army parachute team, which are demonstrations On the Special Operation side, US Navy Seals or Delta these guys are trained where they need to put it to So if these guys are yes, that is something that (dramatic music) In this particular scene, they're doing a HALO, their thing is to be as and as dark as they can. And the premise of a HALO jump is soldiers could step out at 25,000 feet, open their parachute by 20,000 feet and they can drift in quietly, stealthily, undetected from miles away. For this, I don't know especially, all you can't It is mandatory to have when you're flying at nighttime, so other aircraft could see you. Special Operation guys, they're not gonna have because they're coming in as stealthily, as quiet as possible so they can do the mission The landing, as you see, The tight parachutes that are called MC-4/MC-5s. Very big, very docile parachutes. They definitely can land on I don't think they would Not a bad looking clip at all. I would give them a six. (people yelling) (dramatic music) Being able to grip and hold That parachute is designed for one person and you're not hooked up properly as if you're doing a tandem. But if I knew there was a possibility that parachute could save both our lives, then I would make that attempt to do that. (dramatic music) I was trying to look and see what their alterminal reading was. I couldn't really see, I see but we have no idea of how low they are before they open up their main parachute. 2,500 feet is when you open Takes time for those things to fully open. With today's parachute systems, we have what we call a It's gonna open up the and that is designed to So your main parachute, which they're using in this scene, they could open up at is not very realistic. (dramatic music) To have someone attached that's not doing a tandem, It's called parachute accuracy. Two people under one parachute, somebody's gonna break In that case, they should a parachute landing fall, where you hit the balls of and your buttocks, which is So trying to land and roll to those soft sides of your body is kind of what they did in this scene, but there's just no way around that person enough to a target area. I'm gonna rate these guys at a five. Wow, I mean, every time I at this depth, it gives me chill bumps to think about soldiers in World War II, the forefathers of parachuting. With static line jumping, it's the most expedient way to put soldiers on a battlefield. If you look at some of the actual footage that happened on D-Day and Market Garden, that's basically what you see. Numerous, numerous parachutes (lines creaking) So, this is absolutely 100% correct. I was actually an airborne where I trained parachuters And the best way to get out you pushing the guy in so you can get out the and as you exit, you get into which is your hands over your harness, feet and knees together. And that static line actually and your parachute opens automatically. I'm gonna rate this as a 10. Just amazing any and every time I see what the guy's done for