Translator: Okay, ladies and gentlemen, welcome. There is a question which has puzzled me for quite a while, and that is, Why do our PowerPoints Or rather, How on earth, can we accept How can you do that? And do you know what's even more intellectually It's, How can a person sit over here observing this dismally bad PowerPoint filled with charts, fading away five, seven minutes, You know the feeling, This person, after 40 minutes, he or she will stand up, a bit dazed, trotting off to his own office, flipping it up, going like, 'Oh my god, and I do have a PowerPoint to build.' (Laughter) Now, what is the chance that this person as the one that he or she in the other conference room? Is that a big chance? Yeah. Now, what is that? Why do we do that? Is that vengeance? Is that where you go like, Phew! I'm going to do it to you. Is that the case? I don't think so. I don't think that's got to do I think it's got to do Now, my passion in life is the brain, and an even bigger passion And I love combining these two. And about four years ago, I got so, so upset I blew my top because the way all over our boardrooms today is just - it's not fair to our intelligence So I thought there's got to be something so I searched the world, I looked for training programs, that could solve this question for me, but there was none to be found. So I thought, 'Well, &quot;If it isn't written, write it yourself.&quot;' And four years later, I have the great honour What am I talking about? What are the PowerPoints I'm referring to? They can look like this. Now, this is one of the top three advising their students and their teachers I received this from a customer, and you've got to be semi-blind in order to even have something I love this one. This one was awarded the prize delivered by a public CEO in 2010. It's a nice prize to pick up, isn't it? 'Oh yes, thank you.' (Laughs) Well done, mate. And then you're like, Yes, it can. (Laughter) Now, this is the UN in Afghanistan, the US military describing And, well, there are no comments on that. But then we get this one. 'My god, David Phillips, This has got limited amounts of text. It's got a supporting image. It's got a clear headline. This is the truth.' Well, the thing is, if you recognise yourself in any of these, which I think you do, nodding away, I want to make you aware of the following: that if you've delivered a presentation 90% of what you said was gone within 30 seconds. And then you go, 'No, no, no way, Jose, that is way - I know it's bad, can it now, really?' Well, just let me give you an example and mine, for that case. I want you to imagine this situation. You're at the train station, You can see it coming on the horizon. You're fiddling away, you finally And you take it out, and you go, Have you? (Laughter) You have absolutely no idea So, you're like, 'Is this only me, or ... You put it down again. Have you got it? No, you haven't got it. You'll do this on an average of six times I've seen people in the train go, 'Five, 42, five, 42. Now, the bad news you do not have a separate and a separate working It's the same dismally bad So, I might be harsh when I say this, but there is one man on this earth who knows more about the brain one of the most leading neurologists and he puts it like this. [If companies would have as they have for presentations, the majority would go bankrupt.] And it's with his words that I welcome you Now, my objective for this evening, is to give you five design principles that will cognitively and psychologically And if you haven't used them before, they will make a tremendous difference to every PowerPoint you'll be delivering So, let's start. The first one of these five I received this from a customer, and I said, 'Hey, we've got but let's start with the first one. You've got two messages. Let's move one of them out of the way, So, why should we only Well, I'll give you You're at this nice party, you've got this person you're having a good time. (Imitates chatter) And then you hear your name; Your entire attention and with this person, hoping that you're nodding Yes, yes, yes. After a minute, this one so you divert your attention Now, that person will then say, And don't we just love that situation? We have got no clue The same thing goes for PowerPoint. If you've got more than one message, the chance is big they will be focusing or that one and not this one. Just make it simple for human beings. Have one message per slide. We are extremely limited Let's move on. Go to working memory. I've already given you this bad vibe and I'm afraid I'm not coming I'm coming with worse news, This equation has the basis and they come to the conclusion that there is something in our brain and it works like this. If you have text, sentences and you persist with the annoying idea what will be remembered by the audience is zero. (Laughter) Or very close to zero. Now, why is that? Well, it can't look like this. You can't stand and have this So, what are you supposed to do? Well, use PowerPoint Pick it like this, pull down your text and use the area up there short, sweet bits of text and an image. That is what enhances your image. That is what enhances your message. So use PowerPoint Come to the third and that's size. Before I go into that, I want to make you aware the following. Every time you open your eyes you will focus on four things: moving objects, signalling colours, contrast-rich objects and big objects Give you a practical example of that. Imagine yourself being home Now, the television is on, You're having a great conversation, but do you find it easy No. Why not? Because it's got moving objects, it's got signalling colours, and they're usually very big these times. So, why not use this to our benefit? If you look at this, without you even having a chance It's going to the big three all the time. Have a look at the practical situation; Where are your eyes drawn to? I can see that they're drawn Now, how often is the headline It's very rare. Even so, every PowerPoint template where the headline is the biggest object, going absolute opposite So, what does this look like Well, now I've reduced the title, Do you see how your eyes Now they're sucked into the headline, (Laughter) and now they're falling down So I can control exactly where you are, but why do people build PowerPoints where people will be spending when it's not the most important part? So, what I want you is the most important part should also be the biggest, nothing else. Moving on to number four, contrast. Contrast controls your focus. So, what does that look like? For instance, if I show you your eyes are over the place because you don't really know So, I'll use a built-in functionality I'll show you the first subject, and I'll show you the second one, and I'll do it again and again You're now following If I do this - dun-dun-dun-dun - I can see your eyes just wobbling around, and you're a bit like a kitten going after going like, 'Where is it? Because you're following Now, this is a beautiful example. Please do use this. Use it because you can show if you use the effect of contrast, Look what this looks like. Your eyes are all over the place; but I just apply and it looks like that, and suddenly, Here, they're all over the place, and here, they're exactly Now, there's a big, and that is that the majority they persist in having Look at that. Oh, it's bright, it's shiny. Could you tell me who has Well, the screen. Who's usually the biggest, Well, the screen. So the only option I have (Laughter) and jump around on stage and that is obviously not in the long term, would it be? I think the long-term strategy PowerPoint is not supposed If I do this, your eyes relax. You focus on me. I'm the biggest object. I'm the most contrast-rich object. I got your focus. Why is that important? It's important because I am, and I always will be the presentation. That is my visual aid. Moving into the last principle, Now, this is one and it goes like this. How many objects do I have here? If you count them quickly, Do you see this little beauty which goes 'page 12 of 95'? What is that? Why do we do that? That only creates anxiety. If anything, you are, 'Oh my god, (Laughter) But, it can also create hope because imagine ... imagine when it's 90 out of 95. 'Oh, I can see the lights; Kidding aside, don't do that. Now, there are so many ideas out there on how many objects and once and for all, and state to you In order to do that, How many objects are you supposed to have? And we're going to do that I'll throw up the balls. I want you to nod to me Simple instruction. You with me? Cool, here we go. Boom. Alright, takes you about two seconds. Good. Well done. Your next set of balls. Count them, and nod to me Here we go. Excellent. Yeah. That took you about 1.2 seconds which about 90% of you seem to be. (Laughter) We'll have the third Look at this, nod to me Oh, what was that? I just pressed the button, That will, if you are normal, two-tenths of a second. This will take you 1.2, And for anyone of you who - you'll find out that that number How is that even remotely possible? There are only two objects in difference. Well, might I suggest the following: this one you have to count, and this one you see. Could that be correct? So what you've just experienced that the cognitive process of counting takes 500% longer time, to execute than just seeing. So, what I want you what I want you to keep [Sex] which is the Swedish number for this: [Six] (Laughter) The magical number is six. It's not five, it's not seven, it's six. And I want to make you aware of this. When you go into and you've built this amazing PowerPoint, if you've got more than seven objects, you have to be aware they have to use 500% more energy to understand what's in your PowerPoint. Now, how do you think their energy-saving brain Will it go like, 'Ooh, I'll easily to understand this weird slide' or, 'I won't'? 'I won't.' And you've just incurred Now what does this look like in real life? Well, have a look at this. Sixteen objects - can we agree Yes, we can. So, what does it look like Look at this. We go from this to this. And this is where your brain goes, 'Ahh'. And this is where your brain goes, 'Ugh'. Ahh. (Laughter) Ugh. And I assume that in the future when you deliver PowerPoints you want them to go, 'Ahh' when you show them your slides. You don't want them to go, 'Ugh'. Now, there is - have you seen this movie, 'The Rain Man' by Dustin Hoffman? Seen that? It's a beauty, isn't it? He comes into this cafeteria, and he goes like, 'Boom, 247.' It's amazing, isn't it? His perceptive limit is here. Your perceptive limit (Laughter) is here. Now, what amazes me is that whichever country I go to, it seems like they build PowerPoints in the hope that all their fellow (Laughter) which obviously is not the case. So, but then you go like this, This means that I have (Laughter) 'Yes, that is entirely correct. You have understood me clearly.' I want to make one thing clear here, and that is that the amount of slides has never been the problem. It is the amount of objects per slide The stupid idea that corporate organisations they've come up 'Ooh, we've got this clever idea: You can't use 40 slides. So what do people do? (Laughter) Well, they take the content and they jam it in the first four. My god, is that counterproductive or what? And we call ourselves intelligent. No, no. Alright, so compared - I started off with 95 of those. We ended up with 135 of these. And yes, it gave an immediate result to the application So, to summarise this. Let's have some fun because obviously Do you remember I'm not going to be that harsh. Let's do a crossword instead. It's going to go like this. Words are going to come up. I'm going to ask you to scream them out How many messages (Audience) One. One. Very good. (Laughter) I think you were looking (Laughter) What can we use to steer our focus? (Audience) Contrast. Yes, and another one? (Audience) Size. Well done. What should we avoid using (Audience) Sentences. Beautiful. And what kind of background We should have dark. And finally, now you can say it. How many objects per slide? Six. That is magnificent. Thank you very much. (Applause) (Cheers)