We are a couple traveling all over Japan in a small car. We are currently living in Hokkaido, the most natural place in Japan. This time, we will stay in the car at &quot;Niseko&quot;. First, warm up in the hot spring. &quot;Kyogoku Hot Spring&quot; It's snowing. Turn up the windshield wipers. It's powder snow. It's very cold today. Our car is lightly dusted with snow. Let's go to the accommodation. Tonight we will stay at an RV park in Niseko. Arrived at &quot;RV Park Kutchan&quot;. Niseko is one of Japan's famous heavy snowfall areas. Wow, it's fluffy fresh snow. Look at me. Niseko's snow quality is excellent and it excites us. We'll get ready to stay in the car. The reality is that the inside of the car is a mess. lol Attach the anti-freezing sheet to the windshield. It can also be used to hide the inside of the car. Slide the driver and passenger seats forward. Install insulation panels on the windows. We will camping tomorrow, so we brought a kerosene stove. I managed to put it in the passenger seat. lol Move the split mattress. The insulation panel can also be a blindfold. It's minus 1degC now. It's -1degC inside the car, so it's colder outside. It's already below freezing. You are lightly dusted with snow. lol I didn't notice. lol Lay out the bedsheets for winter. The temperature in the car rose to 2.5 degrees. I will also measure the outside temperature. The temperature inside the car rises slightly with our body temperature. This thermometer can also measure the outside temperature. I want a blanket. It's cold as expected. Anything can come out of the storage space under the mattress. It's really cold. I think it's warm if you use kairo. Our car is too small to have a heater, There are still many kairo. How many are there? There are about 10. OK, we will be able to survive the cold. Wow, it's -5degC outside. Let's have dinner. It's cold, so let's warm up with hot pot dishes. Whoa, the table is like ice. The metal table is getting cold. lol It's also cold as ice! Next, open the other side. Cooler bag is under here. It is hard work to take out the luggage. The blanket is in the way. I need it because it's cold, but it's disturbing. haha Portable gas stove? Yes, portable gas stove and pot. Cookware is also under the mattress. Oh, it was frozen. The dishwashing liquid was already frozen. lol We can't use the detergent to wipe the dishes. This RV park has a sink so no problem. It's so cold that the detergent freezes. I'll open the window. When cooking in the car, we open the window for ventilation. Today's dinner is hot pot. This water was in a cooler bag so it's not frozen. It may be warmer inside the cooler bag. lol The inside of the car is now 1.4degC. The temperature will rise with hot pot cooking. Oh my God, the outside temperature is -6.3degC. It's getting quite cold. I can see my breath. Is true. This car is filled with smoke. lol It's like a magic trick. Add vegetables to pot. The vegetables may be frozen. When I started cooking, the temperature rose. It has risen to 3degC. It feels warmer than it did a while ago. Dinner is ready. It's a hot pot of chicken balls. The temperature inside the car rose to 5degC. But it's -7.5degC outside. It's getting even colder. Lets' eat. Niseko is really cold. It reminds me of when we lived in this car last winter. We ate hot pot every day. It's certainly the same as it was back then. It's delicious. But last winter there was a table. lol Recently, we rarely eat in the car, so there is only a top plate. lol Will it continue to snow tonight? I think it will keep snowing. If it continues to snow during the night, it may pile up. I'm looking forward to tomorrow morning. We might not be able to get out of the car covered in snow. lol The sliding door can freeze. Thank you for the meal. It warmed me up. Amazingly, the inside of the car rose to 8degC. I think it will be cold again from now on. Let's go wash the dishes. We will go to the communal kitchen. It has stopped snowing. Coffee after dinner Let's get some good coffee to warm up. The coffee is hot. It's really cold today. It's better than outside, but it's cold inside the car. lol The temperature difference between inside and outside the car is 7degC. Change into pajamas. Would you like to go to the toilet and brush your teeth? Wow, it's snowing again. Sleeping bags are stored on the ceiling shelf. It's warm in the sleeping bag. I brought blankets today, so it should be warm. It's time to sleep. Good night. Next morning Caterpillar No. 1 wakes up. Caterpillar No. 2 will also wake up. The lowest temperature last night was -8degC. Was the early morning the coldest? Yes, it was measured at 5:00. The condensation is frozen. The water may be frozen too. Everything is covered with snow. We'll clear the snow off the car. Head to the campsite in Niseko. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel.