[GOOBER] It feels sort of strange to I've spent over 3 million hours speedrunning Obviously I'm taking the Michael here, but I have been a part of the Monkey Ball And in that time, I've come to know of plenty of the most experienced players may well have So I decided to compile just some of them of things that you most likely didn't know about in Before I get started, big thanks to DarkViperAU He's doing some great stuff over on his YouTube page. So if you're interested in GTA V, speedrunning head over there and give him a view. I'll start out with something that's crucial to know or compete for high scores. You might have noticed, that at the start of most floors, rather than simply holding straight up. This is actually a strategy known as &quot;frame boosting&quot;, and assists in saving time whenever An easy place to see its effects is on Beginner 01. By simply holding up to complete the floor, By frame boosting here, either left or right, Though this may not seem significant: it really is, Despite some floors appearing to be symmetrical, to frame boost in a particular direction. For example: On Advanced 01, the fastest can only be achieved by frame boosting to the right. On the topic of the timer: you are given either 30 or 60 seconds This raises the question: Why do three digits display There's actually no way of changing the first digit However, in Monkey Race, it is possible to by obtaining &quot;Time Extensions&quot; from In both the Desert and Extra themes of the main game, Bumper models and textures for these themes but again, only in Monkey Race. Also, for some reason, have a chicken hiding inside, [BARHUNGA] Hoh! There's a chicken! Wait, I need to see this. Ah! I saw it! That's awesome! What the Hell? I love life right now. [GOOBER] On Expert floor 27, So high in fact, that you can actually trigger Sadly, if you manage to pass through this will not count, and the monkey will If you look at the individual level charts for &quot;Master&quot; you'll see that Master 09 is the only Master floor This is because Master 09 is the only and it's still just the one. For all the other Master floors, So there's no need to keep record tables for both. Interestingly enough, the banana on Master 09 so it's even questionable having a time chart I find the lack of bananas in Master considering only three of 108 other These being: Expert Extra 02, Expert 40 is also an irregularity on the time charts, Therefore making it the only Bonus floor There's a few floors where the score world record as the time record is just one frame faster than but barely misses a banana. I'll give some examples to better explain what I mean: On Beginner Extra 02, the high score record is 5,812 The high score completes the floor at 28:56 adding 100 points to the score. The time record is claimed by 19 players, The only difference being that none of to improve the high score record by that one frame. Another case is Advanced 01: The score record here finishes at 58:21, The time record finishes one frame faster at 58:23, Is it even possible to improve these score records Probably not. So I wouldn't bother wasting your time Both Master 06 and 07 are the only floors whose are different from their Normal Mode counterparts. As both of these floors rotate away from their small &quot;starting platforms&quot; are added to prevent and falling straight to their death. The &quot;starting platform&quot; on Master 07 by building up enough speed to roll right into the Now that is bloody epic. Playing in Competition Mode also removes the This makes floors from the Arctic theme And also reveals the different wires on both I'm sure many of you watching will look back fondly Either as a young, thrusting youth, or a An easy way to score an impressive 1 point here, and landing yourself straight back on the There's a handful of floors in the main game or are just missing outright from By heading to the L-shaped bracket you can see a single banana hiding inside of A similar instance of this is toward the end Here you can see a stationary single banana, as it moves side to side with the attackers. On Expert 35, there's a single banana Though it's not possible to see using the you can catch a glimpse of it by falling off the and watching the replays. Finally, a banana appears to be missing This can easily be seen by selecting &quot;View Stage&quot;. Each wall on this floor has a banana placed in the centre, In Advanced, there's a couple of floors The first of which being Advanced 11, which appears The other being Advanced 18, On Expert floor 41, does not accurately line up By going toward the back of the bowl, slightly clips inside of the floor itself. So, that should about do it for this video. Hopefully you enjoyed, because I think I know So let me know if you'd be interested in that. Also I've been using a new microphone, And yeah, that should about do it. Hello! I'm back. The video isn't quite 10 minutes so I decided to fill it with something actually decent So I'm gonna answer a question that I get &quot;Is that me in my avatar and channel banner?&quot; No. It's not me. It's actually a really old picture He's a Portal 2 speedrunner and, as of late, So if that's something you're interested in, He's a great guy and I love to watch his stream. So yeah. Once again: Thanks for watching.