- I paid someone to scan the entire planet and find the weirdest houses in existence. - We want wacky houses. - This house is made of Legos. This house is edible. This house just looks stupid. - Idiot. - We're gonna kick off with this upside down house. - That is a little wacky, Jimmy. Wait a minute. Whoa! I thought it was a normal house. But then they flipped the camera. - The entire house is upside down. It's like that room we built for that little escape room video. - Yeah. - That's pretty cool. - Surprisingly harder than you'd think to drill a bed into the ceiling. - Oh wow. Look at that! He flips the camera upside down. It looks normal. Whoa. I'm gonna throw up, Dave. Look, it's like he's - Wait a minute. - How do you get to the door? Questions science can't answer. - Skate park house. - Oh my gosh. - Everything is a skateboard That's sick. - Question. - Why don't you own that? - Because I have a child. - Just teach him how to skate. There you go. - What does that look like to you? - It's a rock. - No, this is the most unusual houses. - That's a house? Well, it's lumpy. - They built it to look like it's part of the four - It kinda just looks like, somebody was just like It was like, there's a house. Hey, its got windmills - Moving at five frames a second. When I said we have the most You wanna know what's even more unusual? - What? - This church that was - The opposite room only be reached via a slackline. - Yeah, you know? Building stairs is a - And this is his favorite way to round off the day. - What is with everyone having This is the &quot;UP&quot; house in real life. - They made a movie about this house. - They did. - Wait, where's the balloons? - We live in the &quot;UP&quot; house. - That's so cute. Not to spoil a main channel video, but I'm currently rebuilding this. That's all I can say. It's a replica of the White House. - I'm gonna go ahead and guarantee it that this was for filming the movie with Denzel Washington where - This Texas mansion takes the cake. - Wait, what are they - Where are they taking the cake? - I didn't know there was gonna be cake. - Why did he take my cake? - Why is the White House pink? This is a pink house, not White House. Wait now. Why is it white? - Now, it's off white. Now, it's off White House. - Wait, no. It's getting pink again. - An edible gingerbread. Isn't every gingerbread house edible? Oh, it's like, okay. It's an edible, full - What? You thought it was a tiny one? - Yeah. - I dare that little kid to test it. If it's edible, eat it. - Is that high chair Is that TV edible? Is that glass edible? No. Don't think so. - Come on. - Not everything in this house is edible. - Oh my gosh. - Hey, you know the old saying, &quot;Don't throw stones at - You know the old saying, &quot;If there's a desert that's uninhabitable and very difficult to live- - In the middle of, just put a giant house. - That's very long. - Covered mirrors - In the desert. - That's what they say. - That's the saying. - At any point, someone can break into - I feel like I walk around - Ooh. It's a long pool. - That's a good pool. All right, we get it. You got a long house. - Is that Colin and Samir? When did Colin and Samir do house reviews? - I don't know. You are the one that paid the guy to put these clips together. - Okay, so this might look Well, watch this. - My very own mom and - You go down the stairs, - Cool. Nice. - And... - Blockbuster. - Yes. This dude has his very own Blockbuster went out business. - No, there's still one left. It's in Alaska though. - That looks like the type of movies you're not supposed to watch. - Ooh, my mom wouldn't Anime! - Hey, look at, there's kids movies. Oh, he's got a theater too. He's got a laser disc collection. Karl would instantly - Yeah! - More. Bro, it keeps, where are we? - Dude, this is crazy. - What's the blueprint - You know, his wife was like, Just keep it in the basement.&quot; And he was like, &quot;Okay.&quot; It's a cat playground house. You know, you can go to and just hang out with cats? - And there's like a thousand cats? You wanna do that? - Yes. God. - Japan, let us travel. We've been trying to go to but it's closed off to travelers. - I'll do anything you ask me to. All cats are different. I have one cat that's a And then, one that is a spawn of Satan. I like the layout of the house though. I really wanna do that for my cats. I feel like I'm not - You're not. You're a bad dad. All right, so this guy apparently made a network of tunnels in his home. - Oh and you can draw on them. That's cool. - Wait, so this is just an air duct. Where does it go? Ooh. So, he like turned his air - Oh, and this gets you to the next room. You slide all the way down there. - Oh! - Oh, I thought that was just a kid. That was him. He's got a ball pit. Do not enter. Stop. Oh, they did it anyway. They don't care. A one fridge with six Cokes and- - Oh! - Oh, okay. That makes sense. - You thought it was a fridge, idiot. - That's pretty cool. - Wait, what is this? - So, it's basically - Awooo. - Ah, the animatronics get That one is just not scary, okay? Okay, that one's scary. - I mean, it's not scary This is a house with a bat cave. - This is the most amazing thing yet. The bat cave. - Ooh. - Chris has spent $150,000 converting a normal family basement into his own bat cave. - I wonder how his kids feel about that? They're like, &quot;Dad, I and you got a bat cave. I gotta wait for Santa Claus.&quot; - This is probably my My bat suit from &quot;The Dark Knight&quot;. - If I had a wife and a kid and a bat suit from &quot;The Dark Knight&quot;, I'd value the bat suit over them. - Tucker's lucky I don't - Basement converted to Main Street? What does that mean? Down on Main Street - Okay, this is a house - Hey, they made a song about this. There was an old lady She had many colors, her favorite was - Raise your hand if you She loved to - Bro, there's something over there. I need you to go. Just go over there. Go outside the room. I got you, guys. - And it's a boot that you've made into a house? - Uhh, this boot we made as a house. - Bro, he doesn't just have a Let's see inside the boot. - So yeah, this is the boot. - This is cool. But if this was Chris's boot, it would smell terrible in here. I could say that 'cause he's not here. Yeah, you get the point. It's a giant boot house. Chris! - There was... - Stop. Someone bought a house. So, this is what it looked That's what happened - That's really cool. When I was 21, I asked to be a Harry Potter world. And by God it was because because Harry Potter wasn't allowed because witchcraft and wizardry. - You go down Nestle's Quick. - Oh, whoa. - It's Hershey, bro. You can't call it Nestle Quick. That's Hershey. - Amazing, isn't it? - That is amazing. - This guy's really into this. - You shoulda got this guy to make your chocolate factory, dog. He like cares about this for no reason. - I would not trust that he - Yeah, this looks like getting smeared on you really fast. - The bubblegum room. Look at this. It smells like bubblegum in here. - Ooh, I like the bubblegum room. I don't know why, but this is creepy. - If you ever walk into a guy's room and he's like, I intentionally That is your sign to run. - That's a waving red flag. I'm sorry. Oh, I saw this TikTok. - I did too. - I kinda wanna live in an old school now. - We have an outdoor pool inside. My sister's TV spins around so you can see it from - So, they bought a school and they turned it into the house. - Let's get a bunch of homies together, live in a school and just and be homies. - Bro, honestly, that should Go to high school. - Yep. Making enough money where and then you move the bros back in. - Yeah. - We have to adjust about everything. - I bet it was a bunch and they like pooled it all cash. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, What? Wait! What does that say? - To toilets. - Isn't there supposed to be a W? - No, they're saying we - Oh, nevermind. - That was a test. That was a test. You passed. - A mansion that contains its own airport. - Wait, really? So, there's an airstrip and - Yeah. - And if you buy a house - So, literally five miles there's a place like this I was riding my bike through it 'cause I was so intrigued by it. Literally people's garages, they park their planes Their driveway is big - I love it. - Travolta then had the taxiway extended right to his front door. - How much money does John Travolta have? - All right, this is what The piece de resistance. The coup de grace. The grade A beef. The Lego house. We tried to make a Lego house. - A little bit worse than his. - He had the Lego key Oh, even the welcome mat is Lego. - Oh. Ah. - Ah, he had to put the British. Come on. - I mean, like you don't but just not British. - Yeah, like be anywhere else. That kinda looks like the guy - It is. - It is? No way. He is quirky enough to - If you thought any of subscribe.