- [Mark] These guys just broke and stole my backpack. But what they'll soon find out is that thanks to some high-tech glitter and fart spray delivery mechanisms, that's no ordinary backpack. - [Thief] Ain't nobody - And this guy's also but what he doesn't realize is those are bulletproof windows (beep) Every year, 20,000 cars are broken into in the city of San Francisco, but who's behind all these break-ins? Like, is it organized crime, or gangs, or just random individuals? And then what happens to all Well, just like when we to infiltrate and shut down those terrible scam call centers in India, I'm happy to report that having teamed up with a veteran investigative reporter, and gotten our bay car broken over the past eight months, we now have a much clearer and even some thoughts on how to stop it. And as this video is the conclusive finale to the whole glitter bomb I'm so happy to report that we finally got some really good reactions yet wretchedly abhorrent fart spray, including one that's not too far off from Macaulay Caulkin's here. (Macaulay coughs) Now, if you haven't seen any of my other glitter bomb videos, the 15 second recap is these two took a package from my porch, which inspired me to combine with my Christmas time - Yes. - And that not only led of glitter bomb bait spray, flash, stick, punch, or fly, but it eventually led us over to India where we ended up infiltrating, five of those terrible scam call centers. But Mark, you object, you said last year was the final glitter bomb, and that was true until earlier this year. I had the unfortunate realization that glitter and fart spray hadn't solved all forms of crime worldwide when my own car was broken into. I'm missing a window. Not cool, San Francisco. Not cool. That also made me realize our 11th hour cobbled never got enough footage to uncover who was actually behind all the So 10 months ago, for one final time, we completely redesigned the glitter bomb from the ground up. Only this time, it would be For starters, instead of to fire the glitter, 900 PSI of compressed gas because if you take a and attach a pipe to the outlet, then connect the high torque servo motor to the opening valve, and and stack them on top of each other, well then when you load those pipes with copious amounts of and then trigger the servo motors, that highly compressed push out anything in the At the core, we still have a that will make all the in addition to talking to us via a two-way cellular connection. Then we slap on a car and place that whole compact form factor into the base of a custom sewn backpack with external access Like in years past, we'll using a pair of phones that with the added benefit of and the speakers for the countdown time. And once these backpacks are stolen, they'll of course be on the and since there's no guarantee for the third year in a row, we turn to my friends at T-Mobile to make sure no matter what, we get the footage from the cloud given the complete coverage and crazy speeds of their network that I've actually gone out Finally, we lock up the bottom compartment to prevent tampering, then use a rubber stopper glue to a patch to plug and conceal the outlets. Then as a decoy to divert suspicion, we got some clothes and a bunch of old non-functional We also created a second version with a suitcase form in case word got out about the backpacks. Then the car itself has all powered by a 2,000 watt hour camping battery in the trunk that also plugs into the One to keep the entire device and both phones at 100% and the other to serves sort so the backpack knows to initiate the stolen bag protocol. We also served up two by first creating a bait car with impossible to break which is the same stuff That car also has the added benefit of a microphone in the trunk for detecting when someone's which will of course release triggering this pneumatic piston with a special surprise on the end. And as a final idea, we took removed the extra fan, and in its place, added a GPS tracker that would by using the laptop battery. That way we'd always know where it was, even if they wiped the hard drive. The thought here was to put to actually get stolen and then with the help of Dan Noyes, who spent 30 years as the for the San Francisco ABC7 news team, we could trace the laptop's footsteps to try and get some answers. So after a couple of months of designing, testing, and building, we put them out in a few and we didn't have to wait long. But before I subject you to gratuitous amounts of broken glass, I'm gonna start off with a Three, two, one. (glass shatters) Nice shot, Eloise. I'm Mark Rober, and for over a decade, I've been making YouTube videos to think like an engineer. But what exactly does that mean? You ready? (liquid explodes) (liquid splatters) Whoa. Thoughts? - Probably less catalyst. - Good call. It means you know failure's It's how you learn, and thinking this way makes you a better soccer because you're resilient and until you get it right. Or, you can just come up with (piano playing rapidly) Because if you think like an engineer, you think differently, and that unlocks creative and that's exactly why where you get a super fun toy that gets delivered to - Thanks, Mark Rober. - You're gonna love that one, Sarah. See you next month. And then you put it together with me as I teach you all the juicy So if you wanna train your brain, to see the world in a whole new light while having a ton of (liquids exploding) Just go to CrunchLabs.com You nailed it, Gabe. Outta the gate, it was pretty clear if our goal was to find out who was behind all these car break-ins, they were gonna do to not be found out. (glass shatters) But the advantage of teaming up with an 18 time Emmy award-winning is that when one of our eight cameras catches these guys nearly we can play it back so Dan which must be precisely why they'd removed their license plate. Thankfully, on our third And this time, we struck pay dirt because once Dan ran the license plate, he made a shocking discovery. Turns out, this car belonged to a longtime SF State College professor of a prestigious Oakland Charter School, and so like any good Dan found his home address except he turned out to be a that his license plate a few weeks prior. And what Dan would eventually learn on nearly all the other license plates he would run over the is that not only do the with stolen license plates. - [Thief] We got Georgia plates. - [Mark] But they tend to steal from a similar color and to avoid an obvious mismatch. So the car thieves showed that and investigative techniques, how would they handle a little Spoiler alert, not very well. - [Thief] A safe? (beep) this ain't no (beep) safe. This is like a bomb or something. - [Thief] That looks like a tracker, yo. Oh, it's on. Oh, that's a tracker, T. Come on, T. Y'all see that's a tracker. Throw that (beep) dude. - [T] I'm trying to, man. - [Thief] Dumb (beep), throw - [Automated Voice] (glass shatters) - [Mark] Notice how is check the trunk by trying to unsuccessfully steal This is pretty common for them to do, and it's why leaving isn't really a great option. (fart spray whirring) - [Automated Voice] 14, 13, 12. - [Mark] In the end, he changes his mind, not just about our backpack, - [Automated Voice] - [Mark] This next one is truly one of my favorite reactions ever because one of the guys proves there actually is honor among thieves as he takes the full blame And I'm just gonna let the tape roll to give you an exclusive of what it's like to ride along with some of these smash and grab thieves. - To the next spot. Keep going. - Not yet. To the next. To that parking lot. (beep) that, Money. We got Georgia plates. I got a route for us, Money. - [Money] Okay. - I got a route for us. - [Money] If you talking - Yes, and there's two more and yes, and there's two more parking lots going down the street that we gotta hit. - [Money] I deserve another bag. Sorry, baby. (fart spray whooshes) - [Thief] Ain't nobody - [Stang] There shouldn't be. - [Money] I smell it now. - {Stang] Me too, I'm smelling something. I claim whatever though. - [Thief] It smells like (beep) back here. - [Stang] I claim whatever. Is there (beep) back there? - [Money] Go. It don't matter. Just go. - [Thief] He can't bip - [Money] Do the other one. (glass tapping) Oh, they got that. Stay, baby. Stay now. Shut up. Come on. - Babe. Pull up, pull up in front of them. - [Money] No, Stang Look at the (beep) floor. - [Thief] No! I got it. I got it, open the door Lemme get it, lemme get it. Will you... - [Stang] I got it, I got it. - [Thief] Go in the front, in the front. No, stay. - [Stang] Get in the - [Thief] Get in the car, Money. (alarm blaring) Get in the front seat. - [Money] It's okay. Get it. It's okay. Why'd you get in the back? - [Thief] No, let him get in the front. Let him get in the front - [Money] Get in the front. Open your door. No, that suitcase not gonna Let's go. (alarm blaring) Good luck. Keep searching. - [Stang] We going back to the cars. (glitter and fart spray whirring) - [Money] Hold on, oh - [Automated Voice] nine, eight, seven, six. - [Mark] And we were surprised to learn that more than half of the steals weren't from thieves traveling in cars, but that still leads them to developing their own strategies. For example, this guy here and wants to steal our backpack. The problem is, all these That is unless, he just waits for the perfectly timed obstruction. (glass shatters) This guy not only has an official construction but his technique is to break it on foot. (glass shatters) Then walk his newfound where he can now discreetly to see what he got, really well 99% of the time. But it's hilariously the in this case. (glitter whirring) - [Automated Voice] 15, 14, 13. - [Mark] Because in the end, and drives off having stolen just our fart spray and glitter. Now one thing all the was how quickly they which is actually if you don't have the right technique because all car windows are which, by the way, as is an incredible feat of engineering because it not only makes the but if it does break, it that aren't going to leave deep cuts. The one Achilles heel to is it's extremely vulnerable to highly concentrated points of stress. So while this window can easily (soccer ball thuds) Baseball. (baseball thuds) And even wrench. If I take a simple spark plug and harvest just the the sharp ultra hard aluminum a tiny localized stress and that's all it takes. (glass shatters) And that's why in every case, they're using some form of this where the tip is a really or hardened steel, at which point, it doesn't take much force at all. (glass shatters) And since it's typically so easy for them, while the pop-up face didn't activate because of a dead battery issue. (glass tapping) It was still really deal with our bulletproof window. (glass tapping) When a juicy piece of luggage was just sitting right in plain sight only to eventually leave in frustration totally empty handed. And to be fair, quite were from individuals it as seasoned professionals. For example, this guy to break the window, which He eventually finds a screwdriver to snap the edge of the glass, but then realizes he and the backpack won't fit out. So he goes to unlock and open the door, but now he's set off the alarm. So he has to ride off to avoid suspicion with mission unaccomplished. Or there's this guy who tracking the car, pacing back and forth to come up with a plan, to make the steal. (glass tapping) Only to eventually learn on taking stuff that isn't yours. (fart spray whirring) - [Thief] (beep) smell just keeps getting stronger and stronger. It's on my hands. Look. - Now before I end this video, and the whole glitter bomb with hands down the best reaction to the fart spray we've I wanna revisit the question through all these break-ins with regards to who's And I'll start by saying, you'll see organized groups like this because that just looks but that was much more in our experience. More than 80% of our steals acting on their own. So like, not some kind of And a majority of the honestly didn't seem like So then why are they doing it? Well, as we were trying to we sort of hit a breakthrough because after it was stolen, it came to this location But then after that, it made its way over to this neighborhood, and that's But the thing is, Dan because he did a news report more than a month and a half earlier when he told the story of a video producer who tracked his stolen gear there because the thieves knew where they could quickly - [Reporter] He's on the phone with the San Francisco police officer when he sees his camera in the 300 block of Leavenworth. - And he goes, &quot;Oh yeah, that's a known major fencing operation. Everybody in the Bay Area knows that they can bring their stolen goods and offload them there.&quot; - And look, there's a whole host of things that leads to 20,000 cars and people taking stuff that isn't theirs, and some of the core issues and require nuance and But right below people stealing from cars are these fencing markets. There's a demand for these stolen goods so it feels like shutting and not having a place for money so incredibly to stopping car break-ins. This is also why you see like soap and toiletries The thief doesn't need that much soap, but when he knows he can in less than an hour, that look like this, or just permanently have to shut down altogether. And I can't imagine I'm telling the city something they don't already know, but when you have a public apparently everyone knows you can go to to sell stolen items, and then my laptop goes to the it certainly feels like to remove the incentive for the break-ins and store thefts to And so with that, I'll and I feel it's very that this fart spray is It just truly smells really, really bad. (glass shatters) Because after breaking not he yells out a racial slur ostensibly at an innocent bystander. - [Thief] Konnichiwa (beep)! - [Mark] And in the of instant karma ever, two minutes later, the dry heaving ensues. (glitter and fart spray whirring) - [Thief] Oh, what's that Dude, I think it's in the suitcase. - [Thief] Toss it? Toss it? Toss it? (thief gagging) I'ma toss it. I'm driving. I'm driving. (thief gagging) (case clattering) - [Automated Voice] - So that's it, my official and if you've been keeping score at home, we've had 167 porch pirates as well as 29 car thieves, we've returned $50,000 and had five scam call centers shut down with 53 of those scammers arrested. So thanks for watching and sharing these heartwarming videos a final thank you farewell to these two, without which none of this (dramatic operatic music) (person laughing) - {Speaker] Whoa! (dramatic operatic music) - [Speaker] That (beep). (dramatic operatic music) - What came out of it, glitter? - Yeah. - Oh my God! What the (beep)? - What the (beep)? - [Speaker] What the (beep)? - What the (beep)? (dramatic operatic music) (person sniffing) - Oh! - [Speaker] Ew, I smell it. - [Speaker] What the (beep) is that smell? - Smells like (beep). - All right, we (beep) get it, okay. Smells like (beep) in here. (dramatic operatic music) (alarm blaring) - It's a (beep) scam. (beep) you, YouTubers. (children screaming) - Yes! Look! - If you want a Christmas well, I got great news for you 'cause they're opening this toy. It's called the CrunchLabs Build Box, and it's something I made to help kids think like an engineer 'cause I myself am an engineer. I worked at NASA for a bunch of years, and now I make YouTube videos to get kids stoked about science by building ridiculous contraptions, which is passively only takes you so far. The real learning occurs in the trenches when you're engaging all the as I teach you all the juicy And our secret as to why we've delivered millions of these boxes already is 'cause we're real good and here's what I mean by that. 87% of kids rated an eight through 10 on a fun scale out of 10, but also, more than three outta four parents said their child gained a new passion around STEM and engineering after getting the build box. - Yes. - On top of that, each to contain the platinum (child screaming) - [Child] What'd you have? - Well, then you're to build with me and my team for a day. So if you wanna embark on and get a Christmas - Yes! - Oh my gosh! - Crunchlabs! - Just go to crunchlabs.com, or use the link in the video description where we're giving away two months free as a holiday special. Thanks for watching. (graphics pops)