[music - Dan Lebowitz - Tiptoe out the Back] Volvo saved themselves from bankruptcy with propagated a boxy look that became the sort Volvo needed was a new direction and the first to have the person behind this new design to take us through the whole S80 story. So, where did this drove the decisions over how the S80 This is the Volvo S80 story. [music] For Volvo, concepts were more than outlandish creations that would never see the light of design and showed off safety ideas that would what the new 740 would look like. The ACC the SCC would show off the ideas for the C30 hired a new design director - Peter Horbury Concept Car would showcase a new Volvo style. more about the S80 and the ECC: What really happened was that here was an opportunity to show something different was a one-off. This was a concept car and And I flew out on my first visit to this Volvo the senior management, and it was there that there was one sketch which I just And the sketch was from Doug Frasher who and I saw it immediately that he got this shoulders the flat topped fenders, and the PV544. But not just any PV544, it was the took the bumpers off and the grille - lowdown in this sketch, and I thought "well we've The PV had flat top, then a radius, then And I always felt that that was very much English furniture and America was all voluptuous backs, the Swedes used bent wood and that's It's that look which created this very S80. And to be honest if you look back at All the way down the side. A flat surface and then a radius, and then a vertical. console had an arc over it which we took top of a window in Sweden you don't get a or a flat top. You get a slow curve which is Even if we were tearing up the Volvo design that I think gave us something exotic selling Peter's predecessor was Jan Wilsgaard, a Volvo's cars. Peter, a Brit, had big shoes style was both Swedish There was a mixture of people in the senior older and younger and I did have a hard time time to move on. But you see the boxy Volvos designed the Amazon which was anything but with the Amazon and all its curves and roundness persuade them that we could look at the heritage and recreate something which had a lot more But I was also able to show them that we were shoulders running down all the way from the "Volvo Bridge" which was the three side surface running either side of that where one plane. I just moved them across to recreate in. But if you look directly from the side, honest straight from the 960 and the 850 but The ECC might look humdrum now because we've style, but at the time it was a striking new a new powertrain: To be honest the idea was it came from our, what we call the "Volvo Monitoring were working on a technology to create a hybrid in 1991, that you could drive in - say we're without any emissions whatsoever because you're from Los Angeles to San Francisco using the was a gas turbine. It could have been a diesel San Francisco you'd have enough electricity the city you could drive through the city we were working on way back in 1991. I have project, hybrids would have been a Volvo mainstay But I think it perhaps was a little too available gas turbine engine being built. the petrol engine or the diesel engine now. It was certainly at the time a very new And don't forget it was really the cities, the emissions were a real, real problem. NiCd batteries powered the car for 90 miles (145km) but delivered a slow 23s 0-60 time. the batteries and allowed for regenerative 12 1/2 seconds. emissions rules. By 2003 10% of a car manufacturers these rules. It was a rule crafted after General resulted in the EV-1. The ECC was Volvo's sell cars in the lucrative California market coincidence that it was developed at Volvo's All Volvo had to do now was perfect a gas no other car company had done up until this in 1998 - just 6 years away. No pressure Maybe a closer collaboration with Renault closer together in the 1990s and in 1993 a agreed to the deal, barely, but Volvo's in the works for Volvo's development team: And we were actually working on a new car based on the Safrane platform. And then one So, we had to first of all we had to facelift platform to work on. Volvo needed a new large luxury car, and that car needed a new platform. This wasn't a work and testing so a small company such as to that expense. The new platform would be So, we developed the P2 which was based And so, then we had a couple of years that and 850 and develop something totally new because the engines... We had a straight six. but we turned the straight six through 90deg the screen forward. And I've been forward or cab forward look ever since Chrysler forward, and the people stayed further back dashboards in the world! It had a look which 250 LM. It created a new look which I was new Lotus Eletre which follows that philosophy a really nice balanced proportion where the over the rear axle quite so much as the some Now with electric power you get all of engine in that way it was the opportunity The gas turbine and hybrid powertrain of the need to fit them in California would diminish part thanks to legal action from the company - General Motors! Volvo didn't have the and 6-cylinder versions of the Volvo Modular actually new. As Peter mentioned, the engine car more interior space. This meant Volvo's when the competition were telling customers Fitting the 6-cylinder transversely was a squeeze which required a new smaller manual shortest, beating out the previous recordholder A twin turbo option would also be available, 7.2s with an automatic gearbox. The 5-cylinder to 60 in 7.3s. system that utilised 18 computers, all connected that would come to almost all vehicles to Morgan Plus 4 today has a diagnostic socket The Volvo team evaluated four designs for Three were in the boxy vein of previous cars, from the ECC. This was the chosen design and upcoming range of cars. The shape didn't due to silly practicalities like comfortably was still impressive and helped get the most The key phrase Volvo used for the S80, was Volvo hoped to court didn't want to shout To underline this the new S80 would only be a line between affordability that the home market Volvo in Sweden had been more or less the people's car. The "folk bil" as they say of Volvo felt there was a duty to supply Mr the company to move upmarket would then abandon resistance to how far upmarket you could go. in our quest to move into Mercedes territory which would satisfy the local market. But Volvo knew that moving upmarket was critical to their survival. It was a path they'd the Bertone-styled 780 coupe in 1986. There would be held with the same regard as Mercedes-Benz in the 1980s. those expectations inside the car as well system with two aerials for optimal reception at least that's what Volvo's press information wild! A mayday system to call in the event leather, wood and a navigation system all Being a Volvo, it would naturally get all of traction control kept the car on the road, you guessed it, whiplash protection by moving an impact, and there would be a side impact as the safest car available. It was the first It got just 2 stars for pedestrian safety to be inside the S80 in the event of a crash The Volvo S80 launched in 1998, replacing were brisk - over 60,000 sold in the first as customers realised Volvo had produced a break the bank. This wasn't your father's by Picasso during his cubist phase. been tested on the ECC, but Volvo hadn't produced the obligatory diesel model of course, 43mpg (6.5 l/100km). But they'd also produce on both gas and petrol. If you're from the petrol is a very confusing statement! Specifically, and liquefied natural gas. These conversions Europe, but with large tanks taking up boot they didn't gain mass adoption. but at a corporate level it was all change. it alone, but it was always going to be hard small car producer. The mood in the car industry and Nissan had their Alliance and Daimler perfect match. After serious but ultimately Volvo announced their car division was being into their Premier Automotive Group that included not only gave Volvo access to parts from those that included Lincoln. And those benefits in the S80 platform, and this would be ideal the S80 platform would be used for the Ford same cars, the Freestyle, Flex and the Explorer. They'd ended Scorpio production just a few hopes on Jaguar with the new S-Type, Range European and now Japanese luxury competition but also in Ford's backyard. And the S80 brand, being used Ford dreamt big as the new millennium dawned, every brand in the Premier Automotive Group. more than 40% in the next 5 years. And why be big sellers. BMW was on the ropes as Rover them for a buyout. Volvo seemed ripe for growth. wanted safer cars as could be seen in their The S80 Executive would highlight Volvo's copious wood, a built-in refrigerator, TV of cup holders for good measure! Volvo was it one step further with shatterproof windows Regular S80s got Volvo's all-wheel drive transverse engine. And while the S80 was a an eco-friendly car at launch. But this was its tailpipe carbon emissions. Volvo also feature. A coating on the radiator would convert radiator. So, in essence you were saving the clear Volvo was trying to do what it could it had. There just wasn't money to build But with Ford's help, Volvo's range increased Well, the S80 begat the S60, the V70 and that it's much easier to start with the lower the less expensive car and then add on to What we did - we started off with the S80, the reduce that to make a cheaper S60 / V70. So The S80 got a few small exterior changes for mainly focused on developing the second-generation had tailed off somewhat as customers gravitated should use their existing EUCD platform that Land Rover Freelander. In fact, Volvo claimed with the Ford S-MAX and Galaxy, two very different economies of scale, and that was why Ford on a Monopoly board. Surely the largest company Yeah, and Ford are great at making money. use this platform. But it was always going near a luxury car that was that much smaller very competent design. But by then the BMW The front wheel way beyond the front door it. And that was a very popular format for of their front overhangs around the same time. competitor. It's just that platform. Remember it's a Mondeo, and to create hard to do that. And by then of course the were as I said - the width. You have to have appearance. And when you're following the There were holes in Ford's five-year battle plan. Jaguar in particular had failed, with of the retro-look S-Type were slow. At least Ford investing in new models there were years Despite the EUCD platform being smaller, the S80 actually grew a little in all directions, would be an evolution of the first generation has a new platform, it looked The new S80 would have Volvo's compact V8 giving the car a 0-60 of 6.5s that would allow a new inline-6 that would be shared with Land 4-cylinder, the Volvo 5-cylinder petrol a 1.6L turbocharged Ford Ecoboost in some a 0-60 time of 8.2s. It would give the S80 so keen to get with the first generation car. BMW M5 power, it couldn't match its handling. rather good with a form of active suspension. in comfort and style, not to set a hot lap were in a Volvo showroom, that kind of performance What prospective Volvo owners wanted from what the interior offered. The seats on the comfort on long journeys, and the second generation could be ventilated to keep you cool on a rear passengers could enjoy heated seats. sounds. The new dashboard look and a logical set of buttons - this many of these controls. They're cheaper use whilst driving. The Volvo controls on use, but one backwards step was the bank of climate. Reviewers criticised them, saying to maximum when you wanted a warmer cabin. debut, and the centre console allowed you system could be specced with a DVD player The new audio system used 12 speakers with according to Volvo's marketing people "It's easy to forget that you're actually I forget. Am I in a Volvo S80 or a concert hall? An interesting new feature was In the days before smartphone this offered a small remote control that within was locked or not, or if the alarm had been remote could trigger the car's lights, and the door handle, get in and press the "Start" Of course, a new Volvo needed more safety improved along with the side airbags. Volvo features to help improve that 2 star Euro spot detection systems made it safer still. collisions and automatically brake. And swivelling like you were rocking a 1960s Citroen DS. the 2006 Geneva Motor Show. Volvo, and owners 50,000 sales every year, mostly from North a flagship model, especially the Executive that would trickle down to the mainstream car in the showroom that helped sell the S40 Ford's dreams of building a luxury European taken a big knock with disappointing sales. of 2008 that took its American rivals into Land Rover and Jaguar. It initially held on at Volvo worried the Swedish Government who the same way. Ford's growing debts forced But who would be the buyer? Various Chinese and Russian investment companies, rumours Volkswagen was interested. Eventually Geely had concluded a deal to buy Volvo for years earlier Ford had bought Volvo for 3 1/2 in its future - so it had truly been sold Volvo was on the rocks. They had a solid line-up course that Ford had wanted to But in 2008 Geely had the odds stacked against to survive in the 1990s had led to many disasters, GM and Saab, to Ford and Volvo. And Geely luxury cars that sold on a world stage. Their it do what Volvo did best, while giving them Volvo chose to focus on the medium car sector, high on the priority list. That wasn't surprising The first sign of this shift was ending engines delivering more and more power, a so 4, 5 and 6 cylinder engines would be the Over the past 10 years Ford had been slowly Aston Martin into the Ford supply chain. Selling use Ford's parts for a while, despite Ford's would swiftly copy their parts. But over time the smallest sub-assembly through engines EUCD platform was designed for smaller cars. and would be used for the S60 and V60. Well, Volvo's a very proud company and the Swedes are very proud of their homegrown about the direction we were taking. But Ford I think when they put the Brit in charge, But I think I could sum it up, the difference years at Volvo I would say that in a nutshell came to ask us what to do and that's a big success stems from, allowing, as chairman Volvo still had one version of the S80 in the pipeline - the S80L. 14cm (5") longer 1m (40") of rear leg room. It was sold in the very rich with the same luxuries that generation car. The second In 2009 the grille got a larger badge engines appeared a year later including a the car with a sports setup that improved A DAB radio and new "infotainment" system Another small update appeared in 2014 to the like the Executive version provided a little Sovereign Hide leather seats, high gloss walnut system could be connected to the Intertubes of these systems, customers avoided them for digital with the Adaptive Digital Display, experiences depending upon the driving mode. a system that would automatically brake for engines continued to improve, delivering 71mpg a gutless wonder either with a 0-60 of 8.4s. expected sales of 50,000 every year. The result exodus to SUV platforms, and saloon sales though - the S90 in 2016 based on Volvo's their next generation vehicles. While sales have tailed off, sales in Geely's home market While sales of the S80 didn't match expectations, luxury category ruled by the German car companies, the point where they sold over 700,000 cars And they're planning for the future, that sells EV versions of their mainstream The Polestar 5 is supposed to be a large luxury will be the continuation of the S80 lineage After all, the S80 has survived the acquisition and the fire sale shotgun Surely it can survive Again, many thanks to Peter Horbury. When he's not talking to someone with a Lego with their latest cars. He also started 6 studios around the world. There's a lot more details about the S80 Thanks for watching