Transcriber: Reihaneh Iranmanesh When most people think about AI, they picture a sci-fi dystopian future, Terminator, Skynet, Black Mirror, But as someone who is working on the most ambitious every day, I can tell you To me, it's the contrary of that. AI enhances Let me explain why. There are many reasons AI always has, That's one of the reasons that I was actually inspired That and my background and why I started Scale. My parents were brilliant scientists who accomplished a lot That inspired me to use to have a real impact on the world. My dad was a physicist, both at the top of their field, who made meaningful contributions and the beginnings of the universe. Their scientific work will have on how we understand And I wanted to work or even more impactful than that. That's why I decide so I can make a difference in the world. Growing up as a programmer, despite how powerful computers are, you quickly realize In particular, they lack Programming is the art to computers to accomplish It's all black and white, As I learned about AI, It changed the game. It equipped computers with intelligence, I was studying AI at MIT and slowly about all the potential applications of AI For example, there was one class project where I worked on applying AI The goal was to take picture and ultimately identify and understand in facial expressions. Using AI, we built an algorithm that was able to detect intent We were extremely proud of that. It was the start of using AI to do That's when I realize and how it could tackle the gray areas You see, AI needs humans nudge it to find thoughtful outcomes, and ensure that human intentions It was a revelation. Before, coding was like versus watching in technicolor. What's more, AI has the potential meaning that new and fresh ideas and ultimately enable us to be more human. But, to power AI, which was especially hard to come by I realized that nobody was building It's unusual for MIT students Mechanical engineering majors electrical engineering majors and computer science majors are building But nobody was building That's when I discovered what to building meaningful You can't treat data as an afterthought. Bad data or lack of data I even realize this in my personal life. I put a camera inside my fridge to tell me when to refill my groceries That's when I realized to actually be able There's no way I could create enough data to be successful But it did help me discover (Laughter) At that point, I realized that this was going to be Building large-scale, to power every single application. This was the impetus quality data, to create requires human insight and guidance. If you think about the core setup of AI, and data needs humans. To ensure data is accurate, an expert human is often required. Only humans can understand to properly annotate Humans are the one who teach They're the ones making the decisions, If something happens, And AI learns from that We are teaching the AI and nudging the AI Machines make mistakes. We have to teach them and This is why teaching the AI human It's through this process that AI will have fair, ethical outcomes It's this alignment The constant alignment of AI to human and human ideas and creativity with the power of AI behind them. The long tale of real-world problems, and the fact that there's always means that humans from the AI development lifecycle. For example, I remember back in 2016 when chatbots were first starting It was right when we were starting Scale. We were all thinking there's no way There're so many different conversations It's hard to build AI systems that can For chatbots to work, there're humans and from there, the chatbots That's again why it's impossible or change without human input. Let's take you to the front lines of AI. The things that AI automates first An unintuitive example is the weather. Humans have tried for many millennia to crack the code It's especially hard for meteorologists because there are that can cause massive impacts It's the butterfly effect. Different elements react to one another There're so many inputs way more data than any person That's why we need AI and provide more accurate, nuanced, At the moment, AI can already provide extremely accurate including for critical storms and floods. So, it's not what humans perceive that AI will automate first, The use cases the brightest minds are much more positive Much more so than Terminator or Westworld. That's again why I think AI Unlike the movies, AI developers on building replacements for humans. They're building tools to focus on what human A good example about how AI According to the Association the United States could see of between 38,000 AI could save doctors' time and ultimately enable them to serve Health care is full of repetitive tasks When a patient is sick, which produce all sorts of data: lab results, X-rays, etc. Doctors then analyze all this data AI can analyze all this data proactively and go through a list of possibilities by cross-referencing It can identify when something isn't right and flag it to a physician, With AI, but it takes less time to get a diagnosis. You have to wait several weeks for your case to go The AI will supercharge, Similarly, in the field of drug discovery, experiment data, patient data, protein simulations and far more to guide a more efficient process of solving diseas Recent advancements in AI have dramatically sped up by allowing us to process and make us Another good example, and potentially We've all seen the images of tanks AI can help assess satellite imagery so Ukrainian forces can respond faster. At Scale, we're using our platform in key areas affected by the war. We've rapidly analyzed identifying over 370,000 structures, including thousands not previously We focused on Kiev, Kharkiv and Dnipro, in which we provided some data We also made the data publicly available We can also use this data people or commodities. It's clear satellite data in these types of situations. Thanks to satellite data, have been moved from one place to another. This is called change detection. Algorithms can constantly be monitoring and if it notices a change or movement, it will alert a human otherwise known as predictive modeling. AI can also help us understand We can use AI to track and measure the agricultural damage Ukraine is a major food supplier Understanding these impacts In conclusion, AI is not but it's a tool that can be used that needs to be better understood, and has the potential AI enables us to make use and sense that has historically been It allows us to add to automated systems Areas like health care and agriculture. This then allows humans Take this information, to strategize and act in a timely manner. AI is a supercharger for humanity. When AI is better than humans, it makes humans better. AI will automate repetitive tasks that don't require which frees us up to explore AI will enable us to be which I personally find It allows us to embrace so we can run faster with ideas and build better to the world's biggest problems. That's why I believe and I'm proud to usher all of us Thank you. (Applause)