Have you ever survived anything? Have you ever given up hope, and just when and grabbed hold of you in the depths? I've been preaching this all weekend, but for somebody who is in an unexpected place, The Bible says that those islanders were so that they built them a fire. Paul was such a good dude he decided to help. They're building a fire, and Paul doesn't Week event, looking like some lazy preacher Paul grabs a piece of wood. Look. It's right there in verse 3. &quot;He gathered a pile of brushwood and, as he Trying to help. &quot;...a snake came out.&quot; Let's go back to everything that has happened He's imprisoned for preaching the gospel. He's shipwrecked because the sailors are too Now he's cold on Malta. We're talking about Malta. Stuck and stranded, shivering and cold, uncertain, Just as he thinks he has made it to safety, This is almost comical...unless you've been Just when you thought the fight was going The snake pops up out of the fire that Paul island called Malta where he never even planned to his hand. So this is not some quick little strike. This snake bit down on Paul. Watch what the people did, because you have People will always assign a reason to why &quot;Well, if I were her husband I would have People will say stuff like that. Not to you. They never say it to you. They just think it about you. They think the reason bad things happen to Well, the islanders are watching this guy crawling out of the sea with some seaweed and a servant of God. &quot;If you're a servant of God, why isn't God Has the Devil tried to convince you lately be going through what you're going through? So they &quot;When they saw the snake hanging from his Which means it was there for a minute. When they saw the snake hanging from his hand, &quot;He must have done something wrong. He must be a murderer. He must be out of the will of God.&quot; &quot;...for has not allowed him to live.&quot; I love the next verse, because Paul preaches Testament. Watch this. When Paul saw them all looking, he knew he Verse 5 says that when Paul saw them looking This may not be in your Bible. I'm reading from the &quot;TSV,&quot; the &quot;Taylor Swift He said, &quot;Players gonna play, play, play, Come on, y'all. Go back to 2014 with me for a minute. &quot;And haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, Five times. It's a quintuplet in the New Testament. &quot;Heartbreakers gonna break, break...&quot; &quot;We get the point, Pastor. You don't have to quote the whole chorus and Paul's response... That's the word. Watch this. He didn't say a word. He didn't try to convince them that God was He didn't feel sorry for himself. He didn't go on Facebook and write a response Watch what he did. He did what you have to learn how to do when breaks loose on the shore, when they talk end, when you've been through it and it keeps The Bible says Paul shook it off. Touch seven people and say, &quot;Shake it off.&quot; Shake it off right now before it gets in your Shake it off right now before it kills you. Shake it off right now while they're standing You have to do it right now. Right now you have to shake it off. You don't take a vote from the island committee you. No. Paul said, &quot;I got a revelation. God already told me I'm going to Rome, so I already know he'll never leave me or forsake I already know I'm more than a conqueror. I already know! If I'm going to Rome, I can't die on Malta.&quot; When the snake fell off of Paul's hand and him. He knew it had to happen. &quot;I had to survive. I had to make it. I had to get through it. God had to prove his power.&quot; I feel your presence, Lord, for everybody You've been stuck on the &quot;why-land.&quot; You know what I'm saying? You've been so busy trying to figure out a Not just you but everybody watching you. God wants everybody to see you shake it off. God wants everybody around you to see you That's why the snake had to bite him, because Faith doesn't prevent me from washing up on What I love about it is that after Paul shook to see what was going to happen next, because They don't bring you an ice pack or an aspirin. They will stand there and watch you. The Bible says they were shocked, because You know you have some people who are surprised happy. They thought when they broke your heart you worshiping God, serving God, believing God. Look at you. So they're like, &quot;Oh, let's see what happens They waited a long time, and then when they they changed their minds. This is why you cannot put your confidence They changed their minds and said, &quot;He's a One minute he's a murderer. Now he's a god. One minute &quot;Hosanna.&quot; The next minute &quot;Crucify him.&quot; That's why your response cannot be to people. Even when I preach... I love you, but I can't preach for you. I can preach to you but I can't preach for to hear might make you cross your arms and Well, sit back and take it, honey, because Now watch this. I want to show you one more thing. So he shakes off the snake. They think he's going to die. He doesn't die. That's a cool place to end a sermon, I think, maybe help you. Let me just see from a show of hands. Is there anybody in here who has found yourself It could be a season. Malta represents that stuck place. I think these are the kinds of generic questions to get 100 percent participation. I mean, who doesn't feel stuck from time to That's kind of the point, isn't it? We all must go through Malta. Paul, at this point in the story, has a decision We already read that it was rainy and cold. We already read that it was unfamiliar. We already read that the man almost died. Now he has a decision to make, and so do you Paul didn't decide to go to Malta, but now He can sit and wait to get off this stupid Jerusalem. So they think he's a god now, so they're like, Apparently, the chief of the island hears this guy who can survive a snake bite. Your opportunities in life will be the by-product He gets invited to the home of the official up under the trial. You keep praying for the opportunity, but It had to happen. I had to go through something. I had to prove perseverance. That's the only way my faith could grow to Look at this in verse 7. &quot;There was an estate nearby that belonged (Which is, incidentally, a baby name that for something to name your child that will This guy is important, and he wants to see snake bite and survive the shipwreck. &quot;He welcomed all of them into the home and I'm imagining Paul is thinking, &quot;This is nice.&quot; But at some point during Paul's stay he learns is about to become Paul's opportunity. Publius' father is sick in bed with the Malta He has a fever and dysentery. Paul, when he heard about it, went in to see Now the way I picture it, and maybe I'm using sitting down to a meal, and Paul sees somebody and Publius says, &quot;It's my dad,&quot; and Paul says, &quot;He's sick, and there's nothing we can I imagine about right here is where Paul started this is the moment Paul realizes, &quot;There was There was a reason the hurricane hit. There was a reason the ship had to break apart. There's a reason we had to run aground on Paul said, &quot;Can I see him? Can we have a moment?&quot; The Bible says that when Paul went in to see Watch the next part. You're going to love this. Paul went in and prayed for him, and after It had to happen. You had to be here at this sermon today. There is something God wanted to speak to You had to be here with the ZZ Top beard. You had to be right there in that section. Paul put his hand on Publius' dad's head, Bible says he was healed, which is a miracle amazing to me was to realize that the same hand that had a snake hanging from it just Oh, come on! You ought to start praising God right now. What you went through that didn't kill you... Paul says, &quot;I can't keep the snake from biting It had to happen. The other day, Abbey came up to me and said, I said, &quot;Did you bite him back?&quot; She said, &quot;No, sir.&quot; I said, &quot;Go upstairs and tell your brother, Daddy said to tell you if you bite me, I bite Now that might not be good parenting, but Somebody tell the Devil, &quot;I bite back!&quot; The same hand that the snake bit became the What did you go through that you wish you should have gone through? I came to declare over your life it does not What matters is your response. You're on Malta now. Malta is what you make of it. The Bible says after he laid his hands on island. &quot;This guy has something. This guy knows somebody.&quot; When he put his hand on the father's head, all of a sudden, Publius had to turn his house got healed. It had to happen! The whole island got healed. I feel like I have something on me right now It's about the release. When Paul was going through the storm, he It had to happen. Paul thought he needed Malta, but it turns