One exercise that we the question, what is we could do for this? wired to just repeat successful in the past. You kind of have to up with a bad idea to of like innovative This is 40-year-old Cessario, and when he for his product, he came unconventional. What's the dumbest healthy, safest beverage Liquid Death. Probably Yeah. Liquid Death. Water in a Dumb name. Skulls on the packaging. But according to Mike, Liquid Death, that's his company has brought sales this year alone. If I saw that in a store. Or if someone I knew saw pretty sure they're that up and be like, And once someone picks basically won. There's three numbers to story. 3 million. The number of views that commercial got on 100,000, the amount of made in its first month total amount of funding raised. Here's how Mike idea he once had for a into a $700 million For CNBC, Make It. I'm Zach Green. This is Founder Effect. As a kid, Mike remembers him his collection of It turned out to be a I just completely ate kind of crass and and it was really funny Mike started playing says one of them had recording labels to put felt creatively drawn I was doing the show album covers. All the business creative Instead of pursuing a to attend the Art Center Pasadena, California, and eventually I just wanted to make what really attracted me it seemed like it was and comedy than graphic In 2009, a friend of backstage list for the Colorado. Many of the Monster Energy. I was just hanging out these stacks of what These guys are drinking like, oh, it's actually because these guys don't these energy drinks. I remember thinking that up. I'm like, man, Like at that time it was who were throwing money So they kind of had to But at the same time it about why aren't there that still have funny, branding? Because most memorable, irreverent for junk food. Bud Snickers, Doritos, Red And that was, I think, probably what ultimately Death. Early in his career, Mike agencies around the wasn't always creatively helped hone his own We were working on Virgin I started getting into I love Virgin's sort of was find a really stale be the one really cool, And they were able to really easily because disruptive and sticking whatever kind of Mike put his theory about test while working at a Tennessee. The health Valley, wanted them to campaign for their They were talking to, were looking to put on part of the protein And they knew they had those guys than they did they did most of their So venturing outside pitched them this idea Every day, millions of in order to get jacked, But most bros are chemicals and artificial shakes. And they almost killed went live. And then we completely viral. But despite success in struggled creatively, so own brand where he could After an unsuccessful remembered a pitch he canned water ad poking the bands at the Warped drinking. I always knew that there idea, and it kind of just on the side, over working at random just sort of continuing of canned water and be? But how could a new crowded bottled water between $146 and $350 Pitchbook? The only way the brand survival is the actual so insanely interesting marketing is baked into someone sees this on the bet they have to pick it or interesting and then take their phone out, post it on their social their hundreds of To prove that the idea to produce a commercial Despite having zero cans We designed a 3D render real. I came up with a brand that we shot for We put a few thousand push the video out and the course of maybe like Don't fall for the Water is not yoga. Water is liquid death. Four months in, the video The page had almost was more than Aquafina And we had hundreds of from people being like, thing ever. Where do I Is this real? A 7-Eleven franchisee in How do I get this in my of that sort of social go get people to take me And we raised the small actually produce a actual product. Mike was able to raise funding and after in Austria, sold the dDath online as a direct Our first month we made spent about $2,000 on We sold out a product. We didn't order near was. We were sold out The first big retailer to Liquid Death was Whole They're really big on loved our death to of bring death to infinitely recyclable were talking about these other brand in their They said, hey, we want national out of the gate So we literally loaded 15, 2020, the week the started. So that came problems. But we still growth in Whole Foods year. While still far below Aquafina, Liquid Death $2.8 million in its in 2021. Mike says $130 million by the end One of the most everybody with this was really was for something Hundreds of parents who saying thank you Liquid nine year old excited to soda because he thinks supposed to have. The construction worker 7-Eleven and typically now might be buying one going and buying a Liquid Death for me is people who don't decisions and now all of participate in a healthy brand standpoint at start incorporating it Liquid Death has raised and is valued at $700 A big part of that Liquid Death's of over 60,000 retail U.S., including Target, where it sells But more than anything, creating an emotional that drives consumers. People think that taste successful or brand is better than shows that is not even Monster didn't become a because it tastes so Bull. Most people out an energy drink in a life depended on. Our and making people laugh. We're not tying our niche like action So I think as long as riffing on culture, just long as something like relevant because you're culture and making At the end of the day, entertainment company we don't want to create actually entertain in service of a brand. And if you can do that, your brand because something of value.