Did the FBI really try to start a violent and American communists? Did it encourage a black rights activist? Did it have serial killers on its about the assassinations of JFK and MLK? Were This show is about those secrets - secrets from 50. Seek and destroy a program that at first was to snuff out into the FBI going after civil rights groups, pop singers, writers, artists, and anyone else A now-declassified FBI memo said the agents or otherwise neutralize" such groups or could mean. The FBI was deadly serious. the FBI's actions at times wouldn't have looked A difference was their objective was to fear, or even kill each other rather as you'll see, excessive force did happen. one of the darkest rabbit holes you've never heard 49. You scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours FBI worked at cross purposes at Talking about dictators who were let us introduce Rafael "El Jefe" Leonidas Dominican Republic from 1930 to 1961 with what As you probably know, during the Cold War, the CIA did not play ball with American corporations or In some cases, it was just about leaders trying or give land rights to the poor, which with various powerful people in the US. nations, but it had no issues with El Jefe's It was secretly supported with CIA money and Nixon. Dictators like El Jefe clamped down on rights activists with that iron fist of his. One of them was an FBI informant. His and academic who wrote scathing papers on As you can imagine, El Jefe didn't much like over the world. He would have killed Galindez in where he thought he'd be safe. As we said, informant, telling the FBI what he knew about FBI then asked him to spy on communist-affiliated Franco movement. Reports say Galindez refused ties with the FBI throughout his time in the A declassified FBI report said Galindez was "extremely detailed, accurate and thorough." 48. Breaking backs He told an FBI agent in April of 1955, while they State, John Foster Dulles, had helped create relations" in Latin American history. This was which it would eventually do in other According to the book "The Devil's Chessboard: Secret Government," Galindez told the agent, a government more effectively supported Galindez was well known for bravely speaking seriously affect a person's life expectancy. him on the payroll at $125 a month. J. Edgar Hoover, having an informant who The FBI secretly helped Galindez get American in danger when he was about to publish a long he vanished, the FBI wrote in a now-declassified would cause him some "difficulties." The 450-page became a bestseller in Latin America. this was an understatement. The American knew "he was a dead man walking." On the night after teaching a class at Columbia, not even the FBI, that employees had nabbed him at a sketchy businessman who was close to the His firm's agents were all former CIA or FBI Allen Dulles, brother of John, who could activities since his own CIA men were not The CIA put Maheu's agency on a $500-a-month who'd offered Chicago mafia mobster Johnny Roselli That's what you got for 500 bucks a month, a Maheu is less well-known for helping to spirit with a nurse, drug Galindez in the back of You can only imagine what happened when El him hooked to a pulley, hoisted up, and lowered and the rest was thrown to the sharks. but there were rumors that say El Jefe first made a caldron at a warehouse near a sugar plantation. missing from US soil. The CIA, under Dulles, put to take care of this very delicate matter. misinformation about Galindez running away with $1 tool of the Communists," but the smear campaign it did what it was supposed to: make the public Then matters became even darker. Galindez was taken on, Gerald Murphy, had found was he'd had on his plane. He got drunk a few that fateful flight. It's reported that he'd for blackmail or other means of earning money, It should be said Murphy did not know the purpose mercenary pilot because he couldn't get into the but he wasn't privy to everything going few too many times, he was never seen shark treatment after being hanged by El Jefe. wrote in 1964, "The pilot 'crumpled to the a rope around his neck and each pulled it Americans didn't know this at the time, but car was found abandoned near a slaughterhouse It caused an uproar, and the FBI took an his valuable informant plus an American pilot years later, the agency would declassify 10,000 In the nine months after Galindez was murdered, Jefe's men in what was an attempt at a as was the nurse who'd administered the sedative a colonel in El Jefe's security services. led to a young US congressman named Meanwhile, El Jefe spent millions trying to pull estimated six million dollars to discredit buy off witnesses, call in favors from U.S. dined in the past, and bribe members Hoover discovered a dark underworld of sketchy some very dirty work for dictators on American which ran the headline "The Story As you'll see later, the CIA and FBI were sometimes untrue stories, but this one was real. death, and that was a man named John Joseph Frank, arranged the kidnapping. The press didn't talk said the media, and was on the payroll CIA had actually planned it with El Jefe, but attorney named Stuart McKeever filed a lawsuit Frank's story appeared in the press while CIA. Dulles informed the department that The Justice Department ended up having to threatened to subpoena several CIA agents. The to have said the CIA would be embarrassed if In the end, no one was ever charged with others. The CIA had evidently had enough of assassination. El Jefe's murder spree was internal memorandum disclosed the CIA's "quite That's just a taste of how the FBI and CIA You'll see more of that later. The US went through a period of national hysteria alleging Communists had infiltrated Hollywood, high society, and He also went after alleged homosexuals since lives. He ruined careers, so naturally, the made sure he couldn't come after them. Each of One of the files Hoover had on McCarthy, should McCarthy had groped the breasts of girls. The keep his hands off" young members of the opposite 45: Dulles vs. Hoover much like each other. As we've just shown you, They were always looking for bigger budgets with Dulles being highly educated and quite posh kind of guy. Hoover once called Dulles "an said he was "a puffed-up nitwit." of course. In a declassified letter "It is a fine tribute to a great organization of a privilege to have had the opportunity which you. Faithfully yours, Allen V. Dulles." psychopathic tendencies, was often very cold Guess who knew? Hoover knew, and he kept a activities in case one day he needed it. They also worked together. In 2014, the New U.S. Spy Agencies Used 1,000 Nazis." and Hoover kept it quiet. The Times wrote, Department's own Nazi hunters what they knew about Those 16 were informants for the FBI. officer Otto von Bolschwing, who the Times said architect of the 'Final Solution,' and wrote This was hugely controversial when it came out in suffering from ill health at the time, and he died 43. Dulles vs. Hoover III had secret files on Hoover. It's well known that They were like man and wife. They went everywhere about their homosexual relationship flooded and allies that he had photographic evidence Maybe that's why Hoover stated in one file leanings." He didn't. Dulles did a lot of things, 42. Hoover's perverts sexual orientation, he supported and took which became known as the Lavender Scare. systematic persecution of homosexuals, deviant." During the 1950s and 1960s, hundreds jobs due to accusations that they liked or the State Department said it had fired 425 You can't blame the FBI for all of his part in the witch hunts along with 41. Truman's warning President Harry Truman wasn't quite as In a statement he once made, he said, "We want that direction. They are dabbling in sex-life would give his right eye to take over, and all They were all scared of each other, but so 40. Official blackmail although he always denied it, saying it was Another journalist called him "the most virulently lobbyist Roger Stone said Cohn had a liking for Cohn was widely known to have represented some mafia. Some of those people said Cohn male 'friends.' It's believed he kept 39. The bathroom bust Dr. Franklin E. Kameny, who was hoping to go far He'd been attending an astronomy conference in San bathroom stall he was inhabiting with another man. who was listed in the thousands of documents His arrest wasn't the end of the matter. After his arrest, Kameny was one of 16 men right across from the White House, to plan the named The Mattachine Society of Washington. knew the meeting was taking place despite it being stated that the hotel manager was listening to the told Hoover's desk what he'd heard. The FBI files Hoover actually had an informant in the It didn't stop there. On August 28, 1963, the famed civil rights renowned speech to a crowd of 250,000 people King talked about black people living on a vast ocean of material prosperity," and "That my four little children will one not be judged by the color of their skin In the crowd were Kameny and other of Washington. The FBI was watching them. but a classified report said King's speech might gay activism. This had never been done in the US. gave a speech in Washington in front of the under Fidel Castro's government, which had just "sexual deviants" to labor camps. The media watching, photographing license plates and faces. controversial matters in FBI history. As you will know, despite Martin Luther he was regarded as a danger to American society figures were numerous since King fought for civil stance. He was a veritable thorn in the side of It's hardly shocking then that the FBI had a big requests, we now know that the CIA did, too, with domestic issues. Those files show discredit King in the media, the eternal The files show the CIA said it had "highly included King having contact with pro-Communist of King being assassinated, adding that this would The CIA was right. He was assassinated in 1968, "As he lay dying, the popular beatification general and martyr to the greatest moral This video is about the FBI, not the CIA, but the FBI and CIA often worked in tandem. to do with King. After the famous 1975 Church Committee CIA, NSA, and IRS, it wrote: death in 1968, Martin Luther King Jr. was the Bureau of Investigation to 'neutralize' The surveillance showed that King had plenty of to the press. The surveillance also tried to unlike the philandering, this wasn't true. some of which were very serious, but these haven't should be released in 2027 might get closer to the files are hard to interpret. But the original unsealed according to a judge's order in 2027. 34. The letter effort to get rid of King was the so-called although anonymously. It was posted along with evidence of King's extramarital affairs. "The American public, the church organizations and Jews will know you for what you are--an evil are done. King, there is only one thing left You better take it before your filthy YouTube moderation won't allow us to tell think you can figure it out. It didn't work. a step further. There have been plenty of theories about the allegations made by a man named Loyd and another man named Donald Wilson, a former FBI government conspiracy. We won't get too deep into the weeds but the theories state that the James Earl Ray, either didn't kill King possibly involving the FBI and other officials who The theories, like with JFK, are not States House Select Committee on Assassinations King was likely, adding that Ray could have been a reached a unanimous verdict. They said that King There's more. King's wife, Coretta, said that after her husband was taken out by the government, She said, "There is abundant evidence of a major, high-level conspiracy in the She talked to Robert F. Kennedy, a man who might have been assassinated as RFK told her he'd try to get to the bottom of relations in the past. While RFK had been the agreed on many issues relating to war, poverty, run for the Presidency. RFK later made a speech "What we need in the United States is States is not hatred; what we need in the United wisdom, and compassion toward one another." murdered himself almost exactly two months later. In a now declassified memo two Hoover emphasized that the public must be led to Oswald, who'd just been murdered himself, was in 2017. In the memo, Hoover wrote, "There is he is dead." He meant that's all people Hoover wasn't happy with the Dallas police force. As many researchers have pointed walk right up to Oswald and shoot him Ruby, who had connections with organized crime and the CIA, had been an informant for the FBI. Dallas police headquarters so easily, say as someone had made an anonymous tip the night In his secret memo, Hoover said he'd told someone would kill Oswald. He wrote: our warnings to the Dallas Police Department a lot of civil rights people to raise a lot of There are bound to be some elements of our society rights were violated -- which they were." 28. More files released from CIA counterintelligence chief James Angleton. a man described as an anonymous tipster had urged him to "call the American Embassy 27. Fireworks to happen. Declassified FBI files show that on handler that something explosive was on its way. "The informant stated that on the morning of the would 'like to watch the fireworks'...He corner of the Postal Annex Building, facing at the time of the shooting. Immediately after area of the Dallas Morning News Building." skeptics, as well as what comes next. The Justice Department in 1975 said it had delivered in person to the FBI Dallas letter explained how he would "blow up" the office It is true that agent James P. Hosty was staying. He had wanted to talk to her something her husband evidently didn't like. but destroyed shortly after JFK was "F.B.I. officials were understood today to be a few weeks ago had not been known outside Many years later, Hosty admitted that by J. Gordon Shanklin, the then chief of the ever seeing the letter or even knowing about it. about the note" and told him to destroy it, but on orders from Shanklin, really did destroy it 25. What the FBI knew Yet, William C. Sullivan, one of the January 30, 1964, to Assistant FBI Director A.H. was never paid money for information, 24. Hoover's worries Hoover was worried people would start thinking Oswald's death, Hoover stated in a memo: Dallas office from a man talking in a of a committee organized to kill Oswald." told them they should keep an eye on Now, let's look at when the FBI became killers. 23. The Black Messiah to the art of assassination, it seems. One wrath was Fred Hampton, an activist for the Black Prior to taking part in his execution, the FBI by planting their own men among the Panthers. was willing to go to the most extreme 22. The hit 1964, when Hampton was 21, the FBI Chicago police on Hampton's apartment at 2337 At the time, Hampton was with his friend Hampton know that O'Neal was working with drink with a strong drug, although it's The upshot was Hampton falling asleep. The thanks to O'Neal, busted through the door. plan" that this information is of considerable informant requested in re Chicago letter." that would later help prove the FBI had played a Hampton was still sleeping with his pregnant Other Black Panthers were also sleeping. who was sitting guard with a shotgun He died instantly. The gun went off They fired between 82 and 99 rounds, people. No one had the chance to who was less than a month away from Police dragged her away from Hampton, who'd In a later court case, her lawyer 'Is he [Hampton] still alive?' Then she heard two and dead now." It was later confirmed that Hampton of the bed. The autopsy said he "had been shot This looked like premeditated murder by the what State's Attorney Edward Hanrahan said In 1970, a judge ruled the deaths of Clark but in a years-long civil case, a group of 21. The files come out given some people thought the police had rightly and others said this was a premeditated hit on the second theory, but then those declassified FBI. It wasn't a police visit gone wrong. It was The "F.B.I. had played a significant as part of its counterintelligence program director, perceived as 'subversives.'' came out on the FBI. The FBI went after anyone they believed was their targets was the cheeky and quick-thinking anti-war stance and all that "give peace a chance" living. Not welcome by the FBI, at least. Most solo work, but such were the polarizing For a man who'd sung about a yellow submarine and very seriously. There was a cache of one of the documents Hoover wrote in 1972: left-wing activities in Britain' of Trotskyist communists in England." of these files, citing national security concerns. Linda who owned a parrot that "interjects 'Right Arguably, the biggest threat to national security for the FBI. How much time and money had been was soon out of the FBI's hair anyway. He was a man named Mark Chapman in December 1980. Peace We should say here that some FBI agents did A declassified file shows Hoover's about the job at hand. Hoover said, CIP should not attack programs of community many prominent 'humanitarians', both white and as churches which are actively supporting 19. Murder and Mayhem havoc on American streets when he took part in the former narcotics bureau agent named George Hunter make arrests of drug takers in the 1930s under White knew the streets. He knew the dealers, him to run a safe house under Operation Midnight through two-way mirrors as prostitutes they'd White also went into bars and did this to his wife's friends, some of How does a man do these kinds of things and avoid FBI had a file on White stating he'd once attended This was better known as Camp X. It was described subversion, intelligence gathering, lock picking, recruiting techniques for partisans, the White called it the "school of murder and mayhem." Americans who's ever worked in law enforcement once said in a letter to Anslinger: actually a heretic, but I toiled wholeheartedly fun. Where else could a red-blooded American boy sanction and blessing of the All-Highest?" He also related to sexual matters. According to White's diaries, which were found the FBI might have been onto him and his "81 Bedford [safe house] - call Anslinger. pumped by the FBI, neighbors, etc." Another file the FBI had on White, which part of an "Ultra secret assignment as a of course. It wasn't something the In a separate related file, also sent FBI agents some of the "knockout drops" used White had used. The latter was probably LSD. 17. Mr. Olson's fall on Frank Olson, the American biological He very mysteriously flew out of a hotel window that he might open his mouth in regard to the novel ways the CIA interrogated people. death since much of the file is redacted; Olson's family has claimed he was evidence suggests that's a real possibility, 16. Alleged smear campaign engaged in smear campaigns in the past. It although we don't have the declassified files yet. to collect damaging information on the Middle East This University of Michigan academic sued both smear campaign against him by the two agencies 15. Definite smear campaign we know on March 6, 1959, Hoover told his staff either journalists or publishers, who he said The practice was to get dirt on such people so 14. The FBI abroad agency that affects change abroad. However, D. Roosevelt administration sent 700 FBI agents parts of Latin under the Special Intelligence to finding Nazis, Nazi spies, or smugglers Hoover then shifted the SIS's focus more toward unlike the CIA, the FBI did not take executive politicians and activists. Through extensive foreign leftists he deemed possibly troublesome. On March 25, 1965, the civil rights activist to Montgomery in the state of Alabama when to follow her and Leroy Moton, a young black the chase car pulled up alongside them and opened support of civil rights and voting rights for One of the men in the chase car was actually an was with violent, racist people, so Hoover decided many years later that he started a smear campaign He fashioned a completely untrue story that she husband to go cause trouble in the South. politicians, and leaked it to the media. Part marks in her arm indicating recent use that "she was sitting very, very close to that it has the appearance of a necking party." 1978 did the public discover that this was a campaigns is that they tend to work because they Liuzzo was no drug user and was not a cheat, but The three killers were convicted of conspiracy 1871 Ku Klux Klan Act. They were handed ten-year as a witness to the crime and went into Now, let's look at Hoover's take on UFOs. In September 1947, Hoover wrote to Air Force the spate of UFO sightings. Hoover said he was not down incidents which in many cases turned out to We guess Hoover was much of a believer. Four and told them to end any joint investigations 11. UFOs II you can find a trove of FBI documents relating of flying discs, flying saucers, and in one July Idaho who said she saw a "saucer within a saucer which was said to have been handed The FBI report noted this might not have been one. Pranking was a dangerous business, given U.F.O. organizations and U.F.O. enthusiasts in 10. Torture training under Operation Condor, the CIA sponsored state played a part. Trade unionists, journalists, suspected of being left-wing activists That is some dark stuff, but we don't usually declassified files show that the FBI Counterintelligence Interrogation" methods. we learned that what the American Civil program was, at times, indeed used by the FBI. 9. Torture Practice men called "high-value detainees" were treated to The Guardian talked about an alleged terrorist CIA, and Pakistani cops in 2002. He is He's kind of famous for the torture that happened Human Rights in 2014 and was awarded damages that FBI took part in some of the torture, which beaten against walls, hung by his hands kept in stress positions, and sleep-deprived. at black sites not just in Poland but in 8. Torture in Thailand track record where torture is concerned, black site. Human Rights Watch said the cops in some cases, crushed their testicles, and was when Thailand had its notorious uptick accused of abducting and killing at least It was completely illegal, of course, but it to have black sites. The CIA has had secret sites is we now know some FBI agents were sent to that The New York Times reported about this, saying It gave the example of FBI agents not liking "Its agents, disgusted with secret C.I.A. prison in Thailand, walked out." the CIA in Thailand while still on the record ended up in the courts. The public only found out relevant files. In 2022, after more JFK files were the first recorded conversation between Hoover erased. One of the memos sent by Hoover, dated am concerned about, and so is Mr. Katzenbach is having something issued so we can convince 6. Fake News sometimes said to be one of the most influential Luce, and he was the founder of Time magazine, He was also a friend of Allen Dulles, who, opinion of world affairs during Dulles's time "After formation of the Central Intelligence spymaster Allen Dulles -- privately urged his Luce also joined Dulles on the board of directors a CIA front that was said to sometimes to control leftist movements in Europe. the Cold War were paid CIA operatives. The New abroad, shaping narratives there. Rolling Stone "secretly carried out assignments" for the C.I.A" Times, Time, Life, ABC, CBS News, Newsweek, The But the FBI also had assets in the media when it its COINTELPRO program. It would leak information stories without many questions. Declassified to use "established local news media contacts." were to wage "a secret war against those citizens We also now know the FBI secretly investigated They looked at his credit card purchases, and they used fake IDs to interview his get dirt on him and find out where his employment data and his immigration field offices to investigate all newspapers The FBI liked leaking certain information, but agency supported. The leaker was Daniel Ellsberg, A Freedom of Press advocate said recently, "The we're just finding out about it now makes you to this length to spy on journalists in secret." campaigns still exist? In 1969, as part of COINTELPRO, the FBI a Chicago street gang that went by the name allied with the Black Panthers, the FBI the guy who you now know the FBI later had In a memo, an FBI official said this should the Panthers. He remarked how the Rangers were in another memo, the FBI said its tactics and a high degree of unrest continues to Diego . . . a substantial amount of the unrest So much for keeping the peace on the streets! Also, as part of COINTELPRO, the FBI tried the Communists. In a memo dated July 31, 1977, setting the La Cosa Nostra against the communists In another memo, the FBI admitted in getting into a bloody battle after letters to newspapers from apparent One such letter was from a man calling himself about the mafia and its loan sharks extorting their other "nefarious" activities. This was taking each other out and saving the FBI the There were more letters. One consists of who'd just been to Russia, was coming home They also sent letters to three top mafia was blaming them for bombing the communist HQ. vs. Commies did not happen. One of the most embarrassing moments for the FBI was a serial killer. He was Scott Kimbal, who The FBI had used him after he was caught in he gave agents was almost always untrue. It's hard to say how many informants the reported to be about 15,000. According to wrote in 2015, "FBI And Other Agencies Years With Many Committing Authorized Crimes." of Information request, there were 22,800 crime meaning that people were authorized to "It's not that we're ignoring these informant engage in the criminal activity for These are not major crimes, it seems, but get away with terrible deeds, such as the According to the recent Netflix true crime The Octopus Murders" - a crazy documentary heinous crimes for many years, but no matter he had a knack of staying out of prison. lest we end up having an, erm.., accident. To be almost impossible, and let's remember, the job is mostly about the hidden bad stuff. One of the most infamous spies the US has ever had He started working for the FBI he started passing information to the Soviets in a multimillion-dollar eavesdropping tunnel under high cost of the tunnel, the Americans got barely had told the Russians about it. He was paid about He gave the Russians information about the US spies, which led to the arrest and imprisonment executed because of his spying. It's thought he and about $800,000 right into one of his million to get information from a KGB agent Today, after being called "the most a country governed by the rule of law," he's 79 1. Undercover frightening jobs in the world is that of an organization. The name Joe Pistone from 1976 to 1981, pretended to be a criminal His work led to around 100 convictions, when he left his mafia in chaos. Over the groups. They've had people in environmental and they recently put a pink-haired woman who said While we guess most people for the right the racial justice group finding wouldn't want to get on the wrong side of drug was buying cocaine from a surveilled drug dealer At the time, his name wasn't published in always kept very secret, even within the FBI. very often. The Washington Post said in 2023 be killed on the job. Infiltrating drug gangs would do without giving it a lot of thought, but finish this video with a recent story of a A man got in touch with the site and wrote was talking to an agent. He was good at killing, "I'm looking for a job that pays well and is and Killing the marked target) so I can support my I do, so if I can find a job that is similar He was hired. The agent later met him in with photographs, the name, address, he was supposed to take out. He also got Now you need to watch "50 Insane Facts have a look at "MOST WANTED