Good morning, guys. Here in Las Vegas, We're meeting up with One being Oscar Goodman. And if you've seen the movie Casino, He played himself. Who was the attorney in the movie. Oscar's been an attorney for some of in the city and the country. Also the mayor for many years. And then his buddy, Michael Schneider. 16 years in the Nevada State Senate. Today's video is gonna be These are the type of guys know the inside stories, understand Vegas inside and out. And the goal is to get some content here anywhere else. All right, guys, let's do this. mellow jazz OSCAR: They had just written this book, I have it up there, The Green Fell Jungle. That one... that library... PETER: Can I grab it? -And I didn't steal it It was a tawdry version The Sin City aspect of it and as a young lawyer to be quite frank with you. We came out with $87.00 between us, We came over a hill and we looked out and we saw I don't think we saw and a tumbleweed ran in front of the car, and I hadn't seen a tumbleweed since back in Philadelphia. I think there was 70,000 people and maybe 100,000 PETER: What year was that? -How old are you? -Now, 83. We were babies. We left our families back there but if I was ever gonna do it, or else, unlike you, Pretty sedentary guy, and get happy with what I'm doing, I had a job waiting for me because they only gave So I had to wait an entire year I met a lot of the politicians, I went to a very good law school. They had me ghost write opinions for them, and when I finally hung my shingle up and I was ready to take on clients, and my wife and myself He was a lawyer in Philadelphia, and he was embarrassed That was his mindset. When they said, &quot;Where's Oscar?&quot; And... That's the way he looked at this story. We used to go to a place Which is where the Mandalay is now. And once a month with the $25.00 that my dad would send us, and anything that was left over she would play blackjack. I would stand behind her because I knew they weren't because people were beating them, And it was a different kind of town then. Much friendlier town in my opinion. The dealers would talk to the customers. They'd talk to me One day the dealer who was &quot;Can you do a bankruptcy for me?&quot; I said, I'd never done one &quot;Where there's a fee, there's a remedy.&quot; So I learned how to... I learned how to do a bankruptcy real fast and charged $250 And he was forever indebted, and then one day, and this is all the honest to God truth A phone call came into the pit and the guy on [raspy Italian accent] &quot;Who's the best Well nothing's changed Nobody ever says Everybody knows everything in Las Vegas. The pit boss answers the phone and he says, &quot;Who's the best criminal lawyer and my dealer friend said, &quot;I don't know whether he does any That's how it all started. The phone call came in from the East Coast. Who's stepbrother And they hired me to do the case [raspy] &quot;Come to such and such address, I said... And it's late at night, I said... Well, um... [as raspy mobster] &quot;You better get here, So being very brave, &quot;Sweetheart, will you take a ride with me?&quot; -So what were your feelings like When the mobsters reached out to you -That was the first one. -Well, it was nourishing. I mean these are people who had money. They had a great lifestyle. I mean every place I went with these guys I had the front seat I had first class tickets on planes They took me to They always had a wad of green. I mean it was a lot of money They had beautiful women on each arm. The women, even in 125 degree heat, I mean it was... and they were all characters. See, there are no characters anymore. They were characters and they had nicknames There was a fella who was And he had a little arm, and they... Wingy. -Wingy from Caesars, right? Wingy had a little hand coming out here, and Lefty Rosenthal, who DeNiro portrayed. He was left handed, and Tony the Ant... I mean everybody had some aura about them that you don't have today. Today, a lot of the big shots... And I'm a person who doesn't believe I haven't met one yet. Met a lot of people but I haven't met one yet. I wouldn't give you two cents -Now there are no big shots? -I don't think there were ever -Never? -No, at least the... The alleged mobsters they didn't hold themselves They were... They learned low profiles. PETER: What about the mobster -Yeah, that's Tony Spilotro. -Wasn't he a loud mouth? See, no one believes these stories but he treated me better When I would leave town to try a case and I wasn't representing him on that case, he would actually call my wife, who was Founded the first non-profit, &quot;How is everything, Mrs. Goodman?&quot; &quot;Anything I can do Came into my office, we had a little lady, who would serve coffee to our clients, and treated her like Never cursed around women. So I never saw the tawdry side of him. I... Uh... With me, he never asked me -When you saw the movie, Casino then, you're seeing a whole nother -Oh, not only that, and... [chuckles] ..seen Casino before I saw it, I would have owned I would have owned planes and boats. I was their lawyer but I had no idea what these guys were Millions and millions of dollars to the real hidden owners. These were all front people. -They were all out of Kansas City, right? -No, no, just the Tropicana. -Just the Tropicana? I mean I would sit and they'd always have a chauffeur. They were good portrayals and that's the way but there was a different side. I did not know for instance... And I'm their lawyer. I'm Lefty's lawyer and Tony's lawyer, okay? And this has happened more times than not a guy from the Lucchese Crime Family I don't know the difference, and they're hating each other, I had no idea about this and for Tony to have had I wouldda bet all four of my children and we had some dogs, that it was impossible. I see these guys together. They like each other. This could never be happening, I said, &quot;They're making this part up.&quot; And then I've had FBI agents &quot;We used to follow them Well, they know a lot of things And... Uh, no. They were always... They needed me. I know that sounds funny and arrogant. But I was the only person around really of their going to prison -There were no other attorneys in Vegas... -Why didn't they want to do it? -Harry Claiborne was the best attorney. Um, ended up our federal judge. Uh, a brilliant marshaller of the facts and good sense of humor, I tried many, many cases with him. He wouldn't touch a mobster or an alleged mobster. He felt that it was demeaning. He felt that it would ruin his reputation. -You didn't feel that at all -I was proud of it. You kidding me? Why? They... They could go to any lawyer They had all the money in the world and they chose me, I wore it like a badge. -So it represented -In my mind. And now how about -They were entitled to a defense, -Okay. -Number two, you're a smart guy... [clears throat] ..and I'm not gonna It would be real easy to but... Um... God forbid you go back to your home and you see your front door is busted open, and you walk in, and you see and you pick up the phone, -Robbed. -You weren't robbed, you were burglarized. Big difference, robbery is taking something Burglary is entering and there's about a 15 year difference So I never wanted my clients They don't know what they did. The only thing I ever wanted to hear was if there was someplace else rather than where at the time the offense took place. -So for you, That's paramount? I wanted to make sure -Yep. -And in every case Because most of my cases were federal. ..at least make one lie. Catch him in it and make the jury look at him It was almost like [coughs] 'Cause they can't do They wanted them so bad they tasted them and I wasn't allowing them Prosecutorial misconduct -So today, none of this exists here, huh? -Oh, I think it may be worse today. -How so? -I think there's more corruption today The FBI stunk then, the FBI stinks now. -So more corruption -Nothing changes, no. -Well there's no mob -No, no, there isn't. Over the years, [clears throat] the mob... I had a lot to do with Number one, when I became the mayor So they left. That's a joke. Number two... [Peter chuckling] ..every time I caught them they corrected it the next time. So I was helping them refine their... Um... Their role. And it got harder, and harder, they changed the law [coughs] ..using certain procedures. If they didn't follow the procedures Next time they followed the procedures. So I made it difficult By winning future cases because they would I was not a good winner. The best thing I liked and I lost a lot of cases. When I won though, I made them eat it. I made them eat it. I shoved it right down their throat. I crowed on the courthouse steps. I mean they knew Now two ways about it. That was my compensation -When you're talking about -Yep. -Have citizens lost more rights -Oh, I think everybody... My wife got a bill, I think from Verizon. Every phone call we've made for the past two, three years. [coughs] It's on the bill. They know who we're calling, I mean big brother is sitting on your lap. You don't know it, They know everything we're doing. We have no privacy whatsoever and we have a government that really as long as they have that information. [Oscar on phone] Try not to eat too late. PETER: How long have you been married? It will be 61 years come June 6th. -All your successes in life, -No! She was my rudder. She kept me straight. Oh, the temptations were -What temptations, ladies? -No, not the ladies, but the money... The lifestyle. It was all [unclear]-esque. I mean it was... It was like living a story book. I was very susceptible to... To not having too much Not that I was poor but my parents were Um... I never came close to and here it was offered to me on and she said, &quot;Don't become your client.&quot; When Tony Spilotro got killed, with very little to do because I had all over the country in these And one day And it's not a pretty face, &quot;You know, I'm beginning &quot;This isn't me.&quot; I go down to the office every day, 'cause I like to work. It's play for me. And I... I was seeing how much and I was charging some very hefty fees, I took my family on a cruise in 1998, and we have a wonderful family. They're... And they love us, we love them, little family meetings and I said to them, &quot;You know, I think I'd like to They said, &quot;What do you have in mind, dad?&quot; I said, Well the kids voted I said, &quot;Why?&quot; They said, &quot;Dad, you've got more baggage &quot;There's no way you could win&quot; And I said, &quot;You know me, and I had won. I had done every case that you can. I represented the federal judge I was the only person to that point in time -Sure. -Represented a fellow down in Texas I won by 64%. They called it a landslide, The next time I got 87%. -[Peter surprised] 87%? And then the last time I fell off to 84% but I'm looking for the 16% still. -Why do you think you were so popular? -I'm not sure I was popular, Practicing the kind of law I did, Being the mayor, They both want the same thing. They want the person It's hard to believe I know it's impossible to believe that the George Washington of mayors, and the media was always But the meaner they were, So I got the best of that. But there was one incident where I... I loved to read to kids I was reading to a fourth grade class and some kid was sent in by either or some wise guy teacher, and they had a question, &quot;Mr. Mayor, if you were on a desert island &quot;..what is the one thing Well, I guess the average person Um... I said a bottle of gin. Well there was a maelstrom that took place. I mean they went nuts. &quot;We demand his resignation&quot; &quot;How can he be And then it turned into, &quot;He wants showgirls He... I mean... I was laughing at it I got a kick out of it. -What other controversial proposals -Well, I don't think it's controversial. I did a lot of nice things. We have a very bad graffiti problem here and I said if they catch the kid We have tortoises out there on the... I want you to convict them and we'll go on TV, Well you might have thought The public loved it Now you know where we are, Mike? We can go in the back part here -Okay. -Um... PETER: So you were joking -No, I was using satire. -They caught the kid and they brought him up to my office, and he was trembling. I didn't feel sorry for him at all. And I had a machete on my desk. [Peter chuckling] I said, &quot;Okay, you're not gonna &quot;Put your hand out.&quot; Well the tears started coming. He screamed, and yelled, He'll never do another graffiti, PETER: When did this open? MICHAEL: What is it, 10 years ago, OSCAR: 10 or 11 years ago, It was my idea but she opened it. -It was your idea? Oh, did I get heat over this... &quot;Goodman's building a monument to himself.&quot; &quot;Goodman's glorifying his clients.&quot; There's a city councilman who said this place I said it's gonna make a fortune. He said, &quot;I'll run through town naked I said, &quot;I'd rather starve to death [Peter chuckling] OSCAR: This used to be I tried my first federal case in there. I made up my mind when I was elected I was gonna keep them intact. So that's a problem in Vegas, right? They're leveling a lot of the old history. -Yeah, but not in my town. -Not on your watch? WOMAN: You picked this brutal day. WOMAN: All right, have fun. PETER: The tourists love it? -They love it. Oh my god. The English really love it. Go down here... PETER: What a beautiful court room. OSCAR: Yeah, that's where -Your first case was right here? [movie narrator] OSACAR: He was my client... -'..far from Main Street, USA, but then...' [gunshots] '..Virgil Peterson '..shined a spotlight on the connection 'Organized crime cannot exist '..between those who control the rackets OSCAR: I'd like you to see At the end here. They made a movie about my life, They put an FBI agent Unrehearsed. PETER: FBI agent with you, That's the number one question OSCAR: That's Spilotro here. This is the fella that Pesci portrayed. He used to call this the gelt bag. Gelt meaning money in Yiddish. And it would leave empty, MICHAEL: Is that yours? PETER: Oh, that was yours? I ate their heart out. OSCAR: Now this is pretty nice. This is part of a ship that was used down the Atlantic. You don't figure to see that MICHAEL: I have never -Oh, this is great. This meeting wasn't that bad. [chuckles] Mmm. PETER: What's your go to drink Oscar? -Bombay Sapphire. -No, just Bombay Sapphire... -..and more Bombay Sapphire. -And more? -And a jalapeno. The jalapeno is very important because it's as mellow as can be. And I'm not... It's cruel to do this but from here to here you lose all sense of touch, So you gotta be very careful. The cowboy sheriff Big guy, Ralph is OSCAR: Yeah, 6'4'', 6'5''. -Just solid muscle. In his older years he became ill. We had our battle with each other after the fight is over, you make up. Then we became fast friends. So he came down and he says, &quot;Everybody's talking about He's a cowboy. I said, &quot;It's a good drink, sheriff.&quot; He says, &quot;I'm gonna have one.&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, I am.&quot; &quot;I hear that you're not &quot;..and you should not be drinking.&quot; He says, &quot;I'm drinking.&quot; So he disappears and this big galute he ends up on the floor. Had a couple hits of this They had to carry him to his car. MICHAEL: In his defense, he was Mormon. -Well he didn't care. -Hi Hannah, nice to meet you. -This is Peter. -Hi. -Nice to meet you. -So you like the music in here, huh? We do, we've lived in Ohio forever -Good for you. -Yeah, we love it. -Little hot, but they have Yeah, I love the Jalapeno. -I do too. Can I have my picture with you? -Thank you, -It was so nice to meet you. I appreciate it. PETER: How great is that though? -I love it, when I was actively practicing because everybody I talked to was wired. -Oh, so it's like bottled up inside of you? -Yeah, and then I became the mayor, I opened my door. But when I was actively practicing, to record conversations with me and ended up in lady's rooms Here it is. Thursday afternoon... -It's 3:07. -Okay, well not a bad crowd on a hot day. -Oh, yeah. Where do you see Vegas going? Like what do you see as its future? You've seen a lot of different cycles here. -Well I think the only thing They always say we reinvent ourselves, There are new iterations, new projects that are different and the people who really deserve a lot of credit 'cause to put in hundreds of millions of dollars when I know right down the street a bigger, and better, But there's a certain So as long as that mentality is out there I think we'll keep on growing. Good being here. Thank you. MAN: Have a great day. MICHAEL: Little harder OSCAR: Yeah. OSCAR: This is our Smith Center PETER: Oh, it's beautiful. OSCAR: And of course for using tax payer money and then when they had the opening night, &quot;Boy mayor, thank you so much I say go home. The only thing I like is I always imagine married to another misanthrope, they try to hate each other. And I love looking at them I love it. PETER: This is Downtown technically, right? -So this really came around I was here -Nothing was here. -There are real bells in the tower. 'Cause my wife and I donated them. -So you were behind this too, Mike? OSCAR: Yeah. ..that goes to them So there's a little piece -So every tourist that comes to town -Right. It's a bust of the second greatest mayor See him? There we go. Oscar Goodman. No spray paint. MICHAEL: He's the man. [Peter laughs] You stand out in the bushes, Oscar? -Ready to chop fingers? -Look at this, isn't this nice? MICHAEL: They have a lot of weddings here OSCAR: Oh yeah, nice weddings. MICHAEL: Courtyard and all that. OSCAR: And this is PETER: Oh, that's great. OSCAR: It's a real city now. -What's that building over there? This one with the... It's the kid, when I was first elected He was wearing Bermuda shorts and... -And I said, &quot;This is the way &quot;Dressed like that, He says, It was a true story. Sam Cherry. I said, &quot;What do you believe in?&quot; He says, &quot;I believe that your Downtown I said, &quot;And what are you He says, &quot;I'm gonna build the first co-op.&quot; I said, &quot;You do that, He's built three of them. OSCAR: Headline: That was the end of it. -So your solution to homelessness is what? To take a building like that -Go to cheaper land, Medical, job training... -..sychiatric training, housing. -And then if someone can they come back to society. That's the only way to do it. -Because I don't understand... Personal freedom, right? Someone's personal freedom -They don't know the difference. It's like they want to give these homes... They wouldn't know how During Christmas What are they gonna do Guy's walking along the street, with nothing in it except... -I'm surprised the ADA hasn't come out in cities like Portland and San Francisco. If a wheelchair can't MICHAEL: Here's what that whole concept... The attorneys will slap lawsuits on you... -Yeah, ACLU... -Yeah. -They will say You can't make 'em. OSCAR: You can't touch 'em, You're not allowed to touch them You can't take them by the hand into Catholic charities -Yeah, I don't know what's compassionate with needles in their arms -Right, I don't see it. -But you're not nearly as bad I'm all over the country. You know, when I was first elected, and I said to Caroline, my wife, I said, &quot;Sweetheart, I want to They have a very pretty police station. And she said &quot;Why?&quot; I said, &quot;I got a couple questions So I went in there and I said, &quot;I'm Oscar Goodman, &quot;I got a couple questions.&quot; &quot;I come down to Coronado, &quot;Walk the streets, don't see any homeless.&quot; &quot;How do you do it?&quot; He says, &quot;We have very special treatment.&quot; Which means they take 'em like that, and dump 'em in San Diego. -Do you want to do -Yeah, absolutely. -No, I want to put them That building where they're gonna be All right, guys. What an interesting day. I want to thank all the people involved So Mike obviously got us to Oscar but one of my followers, Bob, knew Mike. And so that's how it works sometimes. What a fortunate opportunity to get to hear what he had to say. And like all my videos, I never want to tell you But to understand just by listening to them. Agree or disagree. Whether that might be... But that's how we understand So thanks for coming along and we'll see you in the next one. upbeat jazz