Thank you to Incogni for supporting PBS. Hey Everyone. Just letting you Merch at the Merch store. More May 8th, 2024. On the blazing surface of the for days, ignored by most of us but watched astronomers.These dark spots marked the presence held enormous magnetic energy--energy that sending a blast of plasma and magnetic field mass ejection plowed into Earth's own magnetic tropics. I was in upstate New York and the entire is only getting started. Solar activity is still more intense than scientists predicted. The magnetic storm back in May was the and we're still at least a few months of the cycle. Which is weird, because this--the 25th cycle a particularly weak one. In fact, the strength of Instead, the Sun's activity for this cycle towards an imminent polarity reversal So what's going on? Why does the Sun's it acting so unpredictably crazy right now To answer these excellent questions we're going What is the source of the Sun's magnetic an 11 year cycle? What causes the resetting the cycle? And how can we predict First though, a quick 101 on solar structure. core where hydrogen is fused into helium, a Then you have the radiative zone where fusion photons bouncing their way through the dense where energy is transported by flows of The core and the radiative zone are fluids, all latitudes completing a rotation in the same more sloshy and fluid-like. Over most of the top rotates once per 25 days, while the stuff at the Broadly speaking, the Sun's magnetic field the dynamo effect. In the Earth, this liquid metal outer core amplify small magnetic and through a positive feedback process sort of like a giant bar magnet. The processes behind the Sun's magnetic field hard to make measurements beneath the solar a set of current leading ideas, but this is In the Sun, it's believed that interactions sloshy convective zone lead to various swirly the coriolis force. This kickstarts the At first, the magnetic field looks much like the a south pole, and great loops of magnetic the Sun and in the solar interior passing Earth's magnetic field rotates at the and so that magnetic field is pretty Sun. Its magnetic field is generated and if you recall, the equator rotates faster than the nicely-aligned dynamo generators and their twisting these field lines around the Sun. The transformed into a ring around the solar interior. poloidal--towards the poles for the original dipole lines. This coiling of the poloidal into toroidal That was step one in breaking the Sun's magnetic work--magnetic buoyancy. So when you have a also being in a gravitational field, the tube beneath the surface of the Sun, the pressure has tube, the magnetic field contributes part of that (the gas pressue) in that tube has to be lower depth. So we have lower pressure plasma that's can only be true if the density of that plasma is towards the surface. The stronger the magnetic so as the toroidal field winds itself up, And now those rising flux tubes experience yet is the same effect that generates hurricanes with latitude due to the differential the Sun is roughly spherical. The stuff at the rotation to make it all the way around the sphere twisting of the magnetic field lines, inducing Sun's surface. This kinking of the toroidal The strong magnetism in these kinks can from the Sun's surface. With heat no longer being it cools down and so looks a lot darker than the This whole story nicely explains some of the pairs with opposite polarity where the one solar surface. Sunspot pairs are often whether the same toroidal field line Now as our magnetic field gets wound up, weak poloidal field during the solar minimum solar maximum. At the beginning of this process and that's where sunspots first appear. As approaches the equator, and the sunspots follow, This migration of sunspots and their increase in number is seen which show the number and location of The magnetic kinks emerging from the hundred times higher than the baseline are not very stable. There's an enormous amount magnetic flux tubes. They can release that energy reconnect into a more orderly configuration. The and the result is often an explosive ejection of a coronal mass ejection like the ones OK, so we've wound up our magnetic field chaotic mess. We know that this but how does the Sun reverse this process? intensity and the coriolis force rotates these to get lots of north-south mini-loops. begin to connect to loops close to or above Because of the direction of the line twisting by opposite that of the original poloidal field. Over exceed that of the original field. At that point the little coriolis-induced kinks in the toroidal At the same time, that wound-up toroidal field and it decays away. And so the whole process now that we know how the solar cycle works. We know why the cycle happens and why it resets. that's how long it takes. That's the amount of poloidal field into a tightly-wound and That 11 years is also an average. sometimes a bit shorter. There's even evidence cycles masquerading as a single longer one. We track solar cycles back 11,000 years. For example, formed when cosmic rays hit the atmosphere. so by measuring its levels of beryllium-10 duration and strength of ancient solar cycles. average 11-ish years for at least as long as that suggest that stability goes back average cycle length may be stable, but Over the geological record, solar activity appears that each last decades to centuries. The last deep of the 1600's, right near the beginning of our At the depths of this minimum sunspot activity was The most recent several cycles--since the strengths, leading to what we call the cycles that maximum appears to have been leading some to wonder if we're approaching until the current cycle got started, when its So how do we make these predictions in the first The strength of a given cycle seems to be the strength of the current cycle plays some role but there's a lot of variation. A much next solar maximum seems to be the strength of the And that makes sense. After all, that poloidal field, leading to more kinks, more sunspots, etc. field from the chaotic fields at the previous it depends in detail on how well the kinks in the During cycle 24 there was speculation leading to a weak cycle 25 and perhaps long-lasting period of low solar activity. But predictions because at that stage we just the newly rebuilt poloidal field was stronger than experts convened and produced this projection during cycle 25. It was supposed to be around compared to the modern maximum, but not continuing But this is what cycle 25 actually turned rise in activity, indicating we're in cycle. Scientists have been updating their The previous study estimated a cycle accompanying flip in the magnetic field So what went wrong? Well, nothing really. length of a solar cycle based on various strengths and field properties at different extraordinarily complex system of plasma and doing some incredibly sophisticated simulations can't make detailed predictions--they're primary which can allow us to come up with better Solar cycle 25 is ramping up to be a good one. peak of the modern maximum--although it's too But it's likely that before this cycle is done and perhaps auroral activity with it. So keep maybe find a dark place to watch the sky sending blasts of magnetic plasma to Thank you to Incogni for supporting PBS. Incogni information private. But there are hundreds of aggregate your personal information including is a service that will fight for you to have data brokers as soon as possible. They will requesting your removal and fight any objections and enter the info you want removed. And you see which data brokers had your information. https://incogni.com/spacetime Twelve years ago on July 4th, 2012 the ATLAS of a new particle to a packed auditorium Boson - the particle that makes the existence possible. To celebrate the fireworks of that edition UV glow print Higgs T-Shirt &amp; Hoodie. so after being out in the sun they'll begin to only are able to print a limited number. If you'd you'll need to put your order in by June 23rd. There's a link the in the description.