Hey y'all! Thank you for stopping by Today we're going to be cooking Salmon patties. First thing we're going Okay, so that's done. So, we're gonna pop that to put my Salmon in this bowl That way I can go through my Salmon and eat bones in my Salmon. Okay, now I've washed So, what you're gonna do is go through your salmon. I know it probably feels yucky! You see these them out and then put, put the remaining of the So, this piece right here doesn't show any And we have few little baby bones, so And that looks good. I mean it's okay if you have one or two or three of the little Because there's really no way of getting all of Okay, that looks good. That And got that out. And I'm only cooking one can of Salmon here by ourselves so we don't Looks good. And I'm trying to get all the bones There's these big bones that are kind bones like this. Can you see that? You see Okay, so. Okay, we're almost finished Okay, try to get all the meat out as much All right. Okay. Looks like we got a lot of it I'm gonna rinse my hands off. Okay, now the fun part. Here we go. We're gonna start mixing our items into our bowl. Okay, so what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna add one egg. I have two eggs here, but I have one. I'm gonna start out with one egg. Now your egg is the glue that holds your Salmon you feel like you need a little bit more liquid, Okay, so, we added one egg now this is about a And then right here I have a half a cup of But I'm only going to add a little bit at a There we go. And I'm going to And now I'm gonna add salt and pepper. I wish I had some black pepper This peppercorn medley's coarse. Okay, so, right now this is what we got of cornmeal and one tablespoon of flour chopped, finely. So, now what we're gonna do, we're go in there. We've washed our hands, we're We're going to mix it all up. See that? flour and all that kind of Yep, there you go. Just keep going. Okay. I like to make sure it's all in it might not be, I don't know if it's juicy enough. I might add one more egg. Gonna add one more and I think I'm just gonna leave the one a little bit more salt and now we're gonna One of the things I forgot to do, I forgot to Okay, it looks to be pretty mixed Oh yeah, that holds really well together. So, I think a little bit more. Okay. Okay y'all, I'm gonna come right back. Since I didn't heat up my pan, Here's my pan with my grease. I'm so you can see what I'm doing. my stove on and let it to get heated extra virgin Olive oil in my pan. Um, you don't have oil, vegetable oil. Um. you can use grease like um, So, once my pan gets heated up, I'm gonna show start cooking them. I'll be right back! Okay to smoke just a little bit, so, what we're just a little before we get our patties in there. just below a medium. So, this is how I'm going to about this size. About a golf ball, maybe a little just a little, and then, I just start forming turn my oven down stove down a little bit more. So, Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and put that one in here See? I've just put that one in the in the fryer. Excuse me going back and forth. I'm just uh, still and such. So, okay, so what we're going patties. Okay Let's kind of mush it together See, see how much one can will make? One can makes a lot of patties. So, if you're would suggest, um, using two cans, because kids will I haven't tried them on my grandbabies yet, it or not. We'll just tell them it's a chicken Okay, I'm gonna get one more down I'm gonna rinse my hands. I'll be right back. Okay, y'all. Now, I want y'all to see these Salmon patties cooking. Oops! Sorry guys! I keep moving y'all So, you want them to cook about like this the really don't have to cook it too long. Um, just Okay, all right. I want it they don't take Maybe not even that long. It really And you don't want to touch them, you don't want to keep messing with them while they're cooking on Because if you don't get that falling apart on you. And you Okay, I need to quit messing with them. All Okay y'all, I'm going to take a little break and once they get ready to start flipping Okay y'all, I'm back! It looks like that my Salmon pan and they wiggle, and they actually move freely, to flip. So, I want you to see, have a close-up Now what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go what it looks like on that side. Now, it's So, there you go! That's what that looks of your patty, like on the bottom right here cooked, you can normally see that when it's And I'm gonna flip this one. Whoops! That one didn't Okay, do y'all see how pretty awesome! So pretty! I love them love! I love me good Salmon patty for supper! Okay, all right. So, these patties are just about another three to five minutes on the other side or also. And then that's all really to add your ingredients, mix them all together, fry They are lip smacking good y'all! Okay, I'll be back as soon as I'm ready Okay guys, it is time to take the Salmon patties to see the bottom, they're golden brown. So, and get these out. Okay, I have one more. Okay, got them, so there are those Salmon Oh my goodness! I cannot wait to I still have a couple more salmon patties olive oil to my pan, or whatever you choose my remaining Salmon mixture. Just go ahead and get that in there. I need to turn up the heat just a little bit to Can you see how many patties that makes? That that eight Salmon patties. Now I'm sure that's plenty Now, I don't know if you like leftovers or Actually, food tastes better the next day because of all the flavors. And all the, um, things that have been added to and prepare. Okay y'all, so there you go, there Can y'all see me? Okay. So, that was the simple hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, And if you want to see more videos like nothing fancy, please subscribe to this channel miss out on any of my easy recipes. Thank Bye-Bye