Translator: Yuko Niizeki (Sound of airplane) Do you feel it? Anything on your body? Sensations on your body? How about if we combine (Sound of nails scratching) Most people react just like you did. So quite a number of researches were made on why we react the way we do to nails scraping a blackboard. One research found that it resembles a sound of the alarm calls of apes, and our ancient conditioning A more recent research found that it has to do with Our ear canal amplifies and so nails scraping a blackboard so it irritates us. But we really cannot change everything that causes us unpleasant sensations. it's just impossible. And we run into visions and sounds everyday of our lives. We cannot just wipe everything. 26 centuries ago, there was He made a six-year research and at the end of that research he found that every input, every data the mind the sense bases, every vision, sound, taste, smell or touch evokes a sensation on the body, and we are blindly reacting to it. The mind also brings some dramas, memories, thoughts, emotions, anger, fear; it always comes The remarkable thing was that he found that we actually react to the sensations and not to the outside object; the mind receives and it will immediately recognize it: a human being, man, And a reaction will come with a sensation. If it's a handsome guy, scary guy, unpleasant sensations, and out breath will also start pumping. That scientist realized that we react with craving, constantly. You just saw a number of examples before which were gross and intense but actually, every moment in your life, even right now, your subconscient mind You changed your posture. You were not comfortable. You changed to a more comfortable position because you don't like Or maybe one of you came a tight belt; soon enough you may find and you really would want but it's because you didn't come that would make you enjoy today. So we don't even know to sensations being evoked on our bodies. The Buddha gave a mental practice to come out of the blind reactions. And it is called Vipassana. It means to see like to realize out of experience; I was lucky enough to get to know about a ten-day course It was a silent retreat where I didn't know what exactly but I couldn't believe it when I sat there and discovered that I'm actually It's not to the person. It's to the unpleasant sensations I don't suffer because of my sadness, - which I had - it's the sensations that came along And so, at the end of that course, I couldn't wait to pick up the phone and told them, &quot;You have to go.&quot; I was living in Nepal at that time, Some took it seriously, and even went, but people like my sister, &quot;Eiona, you sound like a missionary!&quot; (Laughter) And when she said that, - I stopped telling people but I felt I had to do something. So I decided to make a film. I collaborated with Ayelat Menachmi, who was also a meditator, in a way that people would know And we figured, &quot;Let's do Back then there were that were teaching exactly by the teacher S.N. Goenka, and we decided to buy all 150 kg of equipment, to go around But what kind of film will come out of it? I mean people are sitting there What? Going for lunch, drinking, sitting? We started getting cold feet going from American centers, we came to Asia, and then it clicked: [we could have a film and that was Tihar Jail in Delhi. (Video) (Voice over) for its inhuman conditions. It was branded a veritable hell.] Eilona Ariel: A horrible place, but a change came to that prison They decided to turn one of the wards because they wanted to go through this program. And why? Because they were fighting criminals being released, coming back to jail; The Vipassana program so they really wanted it. A glimpse of what it looked like is here. (Video) (Voice over) [On the fourth day Students learn how to observe objectively all the sensations in their bodies, without reacting to them. They watch emotions come and go; they watch pain come and go, they watch pleasure come and go. And they realize, not intellectually, that nothing is permanent. Hatred, passion, greed, By watching the physical sensations and by understanding one can actually start changing Between the two poles lies a third option: mere observation.] The film was successful, it showed but then, it landed in the hands and he was working with Donaldson Prison. Ron Cavanaugh: then you're talking about that starts where cognitive Eilona Ariel: In Donaldson, most of the inmates will never go out. Most are either on death row, or life without parole, or lifers. (Voice over) [These prisoners live inside Overcrowding, deprivation, towards extreme aggression and despair. In this environment, self reflection and change are difficult, if not impossible. In January 2002, the prison It allowed a 10-day meditation retreat based on ancient Buddhist teachings to be held inside this modern day Man: The gymnasium had been transformed from a place where there had been a lot of fights in there, there had been people and it had been transformed into an area and walked to a mat to sit to meditate. EA: These people are locked in Some of them were so angry for years. The first time that they had some relief was when they were taught how to sit down these 10 hours a day, for 10 days, and observe the sensations that usually caused an immediate reaction. There was a 20% reduction And so they decided in Donaldson to bring Vipassana in, periodically, so that many more prisoners The Dhamma Brothers: I've always been angry. I took anger management, but anger management is showing me and stress teaches you When I went to Vipassana, I sat on a cushion for 10 days. That showed me how to... let it come up and deal with it. Don't let anyone suppress it. I've got to deal with it. I've done that. Everyone makes a mistake. And everyone can change. I can stay out of the change. It feels good. EA: If it wasn't for Vipassana, I wouldn't be able to stand because I was a very shy child and adult, painfully shy, stressfully shy, that I never dared and I used to get sick with high fever every time I needed to go to school I just couldn't do it. It's not that it's not but I'm coping. So I just wanted to let you know to bring a change to yourselves. Thank you. (Applause)