- There it goes. I made a 2D version of a and Matt Parker suggested that I might be able to build a water computer by chaining together a For example, maybe I to add numbers together. Computers add numbers by chaining together a series of logic gates. For example, these logic gates add two digit binary numbers together. I'll get into the details but what are the logic gates made out of? Well, in a computer, they're but they don't have to be. If you're familiar with you'll know that logic gates can be made out of dominoes, for example. But what about using the This was my first attempt. If both inputs are turned on, they collide in the middle, and water flows out of If only one input is turned and water flows into one In other words, water only if both inputs are turned on. In a computer, you call that an AND gate, a logic gate where the when both inputs are on. If I combine these two outer holes into a single tube like this, then water only flows out of this tube if one or the other of but not both. In a computer, that's So this should work as or both at the same time. Actually, this arrangement because water is too sticky. It sticks to these outer faces, and you can't get a jet strong enough to pass across the gap. But if you can separate you can get it to work. - What I did like about that one is you can very easily see why it works. - [Steve] Yeah. - And that's why I love these because there's no magic to computing. - One slight issue is flow rates. So for example, you know, if the flow in is slower this is gonna build up and In the end, this mechanism Also, I really wanted to use the greedy cup siphon mechanism, which this doesn't have. Actually, the reason Matt Parker thought of water computers while watching my video was because of a mistake that I made. I put the siphon in the That actually split the container into two independent areas. - I did enjoy your video, to pour both very It had that sense of an AND. - There really is an The problem is you have to Both those bits from each side have to come in at the same time, they have to meet at the Actually, you can get much from this thing. What you do is you define a one that gets just above halfway on here. So if you put two ones in, the volume of water gets the greedy cup siphon is activated, and your AND response comes out there. An exclusive or is a little bit trickier. - I sent you a sketch where I had a dual-height greedy cup siphon, with one on each side which I thought would work, but I wasn't sure if it would be reliable. - So in the end, the solution was to drill a small hole here. It's a slow leak, and what that means is if you put a one in you're not gonna get a greedy cup siphon, but you are eventually gonna get it to all come out of that slow leak. If you put two ones in for your input, then the siphon is activated It doesn't empty instantaneously, so there will be a small amount of leak through the exclusive or channel. So when you look at the chamber that's catching the exclusive or output, if there's just a little you read that as a zero, but if the chamber is full up to here, then you read it as a one. One thing that's nice is that this single device houses two gates. You've got two inputs and two outputs. One output gives you the exclusive or, the other output gives you the AND. - Conceptually, we had to switch from thinking about and it would just keep flowing and settle into some kind of state to now you've got packets - Why don't I show you? I can't change cameras, so why don't I do a WhatsApp I know, I know. Oh, you've just, why That's very rude. Are you screening my calls? - Hey, all right. - Hey. - So I'm gonna mute you. - [Steve] There it is. - [Matt] Oh my goodness. I have no sense of the scale of what I, well, I know the scale of the achievement. - It's pretty cool, isn't it? But what on earth is it doing? Well, it's implementing that I showed you before. Actually, if I turn it on its side, you can start to see they But what exactly is this Well, at this point, it's helpful to switch up the language that we use. Instead of talking being turned on or turned off, let's talk about ones and zeros. So for example, in the you would say if both then the output is a one. Thinking about the we'll be able to show that is actually going through a process of long addition of binary numbers. You'll know from doing that if you add two digits then you carry the one. So for example, here, you put the three down there, and you put the one up The same thing happens with If there's a one and then you put a one down here. But if there's a one and a one, well, one plus one is two, and So you put the zero down You might already be hidden in these operations. For example, the number if you think about that as the output, what we have is an exclusive or operation. You only put a one here in the output if one or the other of If they're both one, then What about the carry? Well, the carry is related to those two inputs like an AND gate. In other words, you only carry a one if both of the inputs are a one. So let's put that together in a diagram. This is called a half adder. Moving to the next column there are actually three inputs. So the logic diagram is a Here it is. I'm not gonna explain it all, but feel free to pause the video if you want to ponder it for yourself. But this is called a full adder. And if you want to add, say, two four-digit binary numbers together, you just chain three full with a half adder at the start because the first column Because now our devices are an AND gate and an OR gate in one, we can simplify this logic diagram to look like this. Some aspects of this water computer aren't completely obvious. Like this bit here, for The reason you need a splitter is because, well, if this siphon activates, it's because you've put two ones in. You've got a volume of water So you have a two coming out of here. But I only want a one to go in here. So I need to split it in half. A one goes this way and This is just a drain. I originally had one but that was acting like a siphon and preventing any water That's why you've got this funnel here. It just breaks that siphon effect. This bundling is also a bit confusing. Honestly, that's just for tube management. If you look closely, it is this one and this one. Really, I should have an into a readout bucket like this one, but it's a lot easier just to not bother drilling a hole in here, and then this doubles up You might be thinking, &quot;Well, hold on, &quot;this has got three inputs. &quot;How can that work?&quot; And actually, these two through an exclusive or But it doesn't really matter, because you would never actually get both of those on at the same time if you consider the logic So it's fine to just have Do you want to give me two numbers to add? - I kind of want to see 11 plus five. The reason I think that'd be interesting is you're gonna have different - [Steve] So let's put a one in there. A one is 10 milliliters, by the way, in case you were wondering. I've always wondered what - So these are the two 11 and five, written in binary. You take the two digits put them in these syringes; the two digits from the twos column, put them in these syringes; the two digits from the fours column, put them in these syringes; and the two digits from the eights column, and put them in these syringes. We're then gonna watch You've got the ones the fours bucket, the eights bucket, and the sixteens bucket. 11 plus five is 16, so we want a one in that final bucket and nowhere else. - There it goes! It worked. So now, and then that one should rollover. - [Matt] And then the next one? - [Steve] Oh, come on. Ah, balls. Part of it is getting the You don't want too much so that there's too much - [Matt] Maybe a one is 11 milliliters. - [Steve] I also think we've where some of the water's - You've got a memory leak, Steve. I've never been so proud Could be a security issue, if I'm honest. - [Steve] Yeah, I think to mine Bitcoin, and it's - What if we generate two random numbers, and we'll give the and we'll add the two random numbers so we have no way to influence this, and if that works, we - [Steve] Yeah, sounds good. - Got it, so four plus nine. And that's pretty close that we were thinking That's gonna be pretty boring, 'cause it's all just gonna plonk through. Tell you what- - Oh, I just had a closer look, Steve. It was a five. Huh. - Oh, right. - I'm sorry. - The reset is like, I lift this up, I go like that, and then I go like that. - Oh, yeah, the Etch A Sketch Underused in modern computing. Although the undo on the So the dominoes reset was a day if you have a team of like tens of people. I got two three digit numbers working on the domino computer. If you get this to work, this would be a substantial increase in computing power. - [Steve] All right, here we go. - [Matt] Okay, bam, we've had our AND, 'cause that still could have gone wrong. Like, I know we're saying but that split had to work. And now we just need two slow leaks. - [Steve] Which is what we've got. It's 01110, which is eight plus What were we adding together again? - [Matt] Nine plus five. - [Steve] Is 14, yay! - In my experience, the more facetious of the commenters on this video will point out that you to show that nine plus five - Of course, that's really a fair comment because you only do the at the end when you're converting back to decimal in your head. If you stay in binary like a computer, then we've actually done We've shown that 0101 You know, maybe I could build something that converts it to a decimal readout. - Your water computer, my domino computer, there's discrete states So it probably can't say it analog. But there are actual analog computers. So famously, there was a who was an economist and worked on dams, and realized the equations for water flow matched the equations that and they built a actual to model the economy, like with taps for like government This is kind of before you could just numerical solution In other news, Steve, I've just looked up. You are on 877,000 subscribers. I am on also 800 and something. We're gonna keep collabing - [Steve] You challenged I want to see a video on the game Dobble. - That is one of the most - [Steve] Is it? - And there's no accessible videos on it. - That's gonna be a so make sure you subscribe Link in the card and the description. He's approaching a million subscribers, so let's get him there as quick as we can. I'm also approaching So if you're not subscribed and you've watched a few of my videos, I'd love you to consider whether I've earned your subscription. Should we do one more calculation, maybe slightly higher numbers or something so we get down to that final bucket? - Yeah, what about like seven plus 15? - Yeah, here we go. - [Matt] Okay, units are We've got an AND. - [Steve] Yep. - [Matt] Oh, yep, twos have overflowed. We've got an AND. - [Steve] There it goes. - [Matt] Okay, the waste Just dump that one. - [Steve] There it goes. - [Matt] Now we just need one more AND. - Come on. - [Matt] There's enough, surely There it goes! - [Steve] Yay! - [Matt] You've done it. Seven plus 15 equals 22. - For completeness, here's 11 plus five, actually And just for fun, here's 15 plus 15, in other words, all the ones. I didn't go into detail about how binary numbers work in this video. If you want to brush up on that, I can heartily recommend the sponsor of this video, Brilliant. The best way to learn something is by doing it for yourself. Like, if you want a really about something, that's Brilliant took that principle and turned it into a website and an app. It's a fine-tuned learning experience. They throw you in with these problems that you have to solve, and When I say it's fine-tuned, a lot of thought to things so you never feel like If you ever do get stuck, they for getting you unstuck The result is something They've got courses on broad topics like science, maths, engineering, or you can take a deep dive like cryptocurrency or quantum computing, and, of course, they have Actually, I used Brilliant to get unstuck in my orbital resonance video. It really helped me to understand But to be honest, I mostly use it for fun. You know, a lot of people Not me. You can try out Brilliant.org for free, no commitment, using my special URL. It's brilliant.org/stevemould. The link is also in the description. So why not join me and 8 by going to brilliant.org today? I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe. And I'll see you next time. (upbeat music)