A brilliant queen sacrifice, that's a beautiful What moves! What style! Garry Kasparov is an absolute Genius! Want to see more? Well, in today's chess video, we are going of Garry Kasparov! Do watch the complete video as I also have Now let's start with the first game! It's from one of my favourite apps, Chess We go to the 'Chess Academy' &amp; then 'Garry's Alright, so in this game, Garry is playing And as you can see, this knight is under attack, Instead, he offers a rook exchange. Black obviously takes back with the knight. And now, can you find the best move for white Well, he decides to sacrifice his rook for And surprisingly, Black just resigned in this The point is that the queen is pinned, so And then, white has this sneaky, queen a3 Believe it or not, the king is trapped. So, black has to sacrifice his queen &amp; soon, Moving on, in this game, Garry Kasparov is by the rook. Now what can you play here? Do you save your queen? Well, Garry went for the bishop check, which He can't take with the queen because then Therefore, he moves away his king. Now what? You still want to save your queen, right? You can do that, but there's a better move. Garry went for the kill. He goes rook to d8, threatening a back rank If he takes the rook, then after the exchange, d file. Therefore, the rook comes here. The queen finally takes a sigh of relief. He again, can't take because of this checkmate And if he takes the bishop, can you find the Look, if you don't play this correctly, Therefore, the best way is to start with forcing Here only one way is the right way, and that And now it should be easy. If king c1, then this is a checkmate. And if king goes to the corner, then knight and knight. And finally, the queen pounces on the king On that note, you can also blow me a kiss So, do hit that thumbs up button right now. Onto our next game! Kasparov is playing as What move would you play here? Well, mere mortals like us would mostly say But we are talking about Kasparov here. He played the stunning, Bishop f6. What a move! If black takes, then he opens up the g file &amp; corner this isolated king. Therefore, in this position, black decided Kasparov is least interested, he goes rook If black takes the queen, then after rook end in a checkmate, just like this. Therefore, in this position, black pushed But then, Garry played queen d1 defending kinds of attacks on the kingside. Black takes this pawn, with the hope of covering But it's too late. First rook takes, then queen takes &amp; now it's resigns &amp; Garry wins the game. Next up, we have Garry Kasparov versus Nigel Garry is playing as white &amp; he's on the Can you find a way to strike the exposed king Well, going by his natural attacking instincts, You might think what if knight takes, you Yes, but then you have this queen check. He has to protect this knight so king h7 is And now, can you find the killer move in this Look, both the knight &amp; queen are attacking So, we have the defensive, at the same time, He obviously can't take with the knight Also, this pawn push would throw a discovered long. Therefore, in this position, black did not preventing this pawn push. And guess what Kasparov played here? He replied with the feisty, bishop takes on surrendered. Because say, for example, if rook takes, we King goes back &amp; queen g8 is a checkmate. So, black had to resign. Alright, the next game is - Garry versus Vishy. Garry with the white pieces, has just gifted What does he play now? Are there any discovered attacks on the queen? And if he wants to move the bishop, what would It is actually bishop h6 &amp; that's what Garry The queen is being attacked so he goes to And now bishop takes because it is defended If black does not capture this bishop, then Plus, this king is openly on display so it And if black takes, then you don't even a mate in two. Can you find it? Yes, first queen h5 check. Anywhere he goes, queen f7 is a beautiful Alright, let's check out the next game. Garry is again playing as white. Black just moved his knight here so we have this pawn. But this black king is also vulnerable so What is the best move for white? Well, you can take this pawn with a check, knight. He can't take the queen because rook e8 Therefore, black takes the bishop. And now, he takes the pawn with a check. This pawn is defended by both the rook and it will soon be a checkmate, just like this. And if he goes to the corner, then knight Therefore, in this position, black went for But then, white promotes and black does not beauties. Alright, so this is Garry Kasparov versus Garry is playing as white &amp; as we can see, But to gain a match-winning advantage, you Can you find it? Well, Garry captured this knight first, black And now what? Both this pawn &amp; bishop have strong backups, He gave away his rook for the bishop. That is Garry Kasparov for you. Can you find his winning idea? Well, he basically targeted this overloaded Look, if black recaptures with the queen, for black. And even if he does not capture with the queen rook &amp; white is easily winning this game. Now getting to the giveaway. It's from our friends at Chess Universe. For those who don't know, Chess Universe chess so much more fun! Recently, a lot of new features and puzzles For example, the 'Queens of Chess'. Inspired by the Netflix series 'Queen's on the best games played by female players. Also, you can now play time-bound puzzles Then there are these interesting positions So, you can challenge yourself and learn from Another interesting addition is the Tavern, gets 3 boosters to help them during the game position evaluations. Coming to the most requested feature! You can now link your Chess Universe account towers. You can save your progress &amp; enjoy the game So, with all these exciting features, 3 of Chess Universe app. All you need to do is Subscribe to our channel, It is white's turn &amp; you need to find the Comment below with your answers and 3 Lucky 500 Gems and 10,000 coins that can be redeemed Universe App. App Download Link is in the Video Description. Guys, don't forget to Like and Subscribe! Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in the