Being able to drive fast and all that, the answer is yes. What I would do is go really, really fast, right before an exit slam on the brakes, pull to the shoulder, wait to see if anyone My name is Naveed Jamali, For three years, I worked for the Russian military In fact, I was working for Today, we'll be looking in movies and TV and What's your name, lady? Rushman, Natalie Rushman. Front and center. Come into the church. That's exactly how I got my job. So actually it is kind of believable that someone would be directed to sort of infiltrate a network or a government agency My primary goal was to that I wanted to be a spy to essentially impact the ability of Russian intelligence to How do I spell your name, Natalie? Natalie: R-U-S-H-M-A-N. Pepper: What, are you So, in this movie, Scarlett has a pseudonym. Might be good short term, but in terms of building a cover and all that, it's pretty hard. Just as you saw Tony Stark doing, they were going to do records check. Listen, things have gotten better. But it's pretty easy to sniff because there's no electronic In my case, I did not have a pseudonym I was, in fact, Naveed Jamali. However, the one distinction with that is to protect my identity with the US, in fact, what I was given and that was Green Kryptonite. Ironically, when we're Never take your eye off your opponent. Oh, my God! No, unfortunately, no martial arts. I can make mean French toast, though. So, I was an amateur. There was no formal training, and actually, the Russians for any signs that you And one of the clearest signs is if you have some sense of training. The only direction I ever &quot;If you were a real spy, So in fact, everything I did was basically created in my own head, and that sort of escaped the Russians. Obviously, the whole premise of the movie is fantastical, but let's give it again a seven here. To be a successful double agent, do you have to know the language and customs of the agency the country that they're part of? And the answer is no. You know how much Russian I know? Nyet. That's about it. I mean, when the FBI were &quot;Look, I can just get And that's actually what they want. They're there to essentially understand US customs and society. So the idea that you can, you know, speak different languages, but, like, accents and to pretend, it's a pretty big lie consistently for a long time. It's hard. I mean, the Russians did try to search me at a certain point. What would be the excuse So, no, I was never armed. It's actually a question that in terms of trying to understand if Oleg, my Russian GRU And I still never got a clear-cut answer. You had to sort of suspend logic to walk into places alone So, are disguises necessary? It's very different from, like, if you're traveling internationally and you don't want a host country to know that you're passing or passing through that country, you might mask your identity. That's very different than a long-term relationship with someone. Disguises can work, up to a point. But to sit down and have a conversation over a period of time closely, I just feel like you're I uncovered your traitor Satchel. Percival was Satchel. So, the idea that Charlize is going to essentially of who the actual mole which is her, in fact, to someone else, is completely believable. One of the biggest things is gain trust of whoever they're allegedly working for. And once they gain trust, that you can do in terms of manipulation. You can pass disinformation, Emmett: Let's go home. In this scene we see that is a triple agent for the That's a lot. Triple agents are not namely because you would have to believe in that country that they're working for would have serious questions really had an allegiance to that country. I'm going to give that a nine. And I'll tell you why. The ending. All of spy world is about And this idea that Charlize and she just screwed over is like the chef's kiss of what any intelligence Enough games. I'm taking you out of here. With Henry Cavill's character, would try to trip him is completely believable. So that is something, actually, that intelligence services seek to do, to find someone, to and to do it so in an honest, So, when it came to the Russians and Oleg, it wasn't like he ever The big, sort of pivotal is when he started giving me taskings. That's when it was like, He's tasking me to spy for Russia. What? So, using a device to record Absolutely. In my case, I actually used a watch. That's how I recorded What the recording is important for is for the agents or the officers to validate what you're telling them. It's just the job. So, we just saw in &quot;Mission: that Benji's character was wearing essentially a prosthetic, a mask. Are prosthetics real? Well, the answer is yes when it comes to but it's used primarily not to sort of convince someone in a sit-down meeting, but rather to counter We see Henry Cavill's character That, in fact, did happen that I was working against, Oleg Kulikov, was essentially a Russian diplomat assigned to United Nations. But, in fact, he was a military attache who was a GRU officer. So the ability to arrest him, So, again, what they wanted to that the operation had been compromised, but to do so in a manner as to where the compromise occurred. And so, the last meeting I had with Oleg, I was essentially and it was a sort of very final moment where Obviously, &quot;Mission: and all the series is, you know, it's fun, there's gotta be action. I was never involved in a foot chase. I was never involved in a shootout. And the reason for that for a lot of them, but the primary one, is that sort of the jig is up, right? People are going to know that Normal people don't chase other people. I'm going to go with &quot;Mission: with a seven. Espionage is far more Such a great car. I can't believe So, when you're working undercover, your job is to build a caricature. And part of that caricature is going to be based on physical things. What you wear. Do you Do you drive an F-150 pickup truck or do you drive a Corvette In my case, working undercover, the GRU thought that I was a young person who was interested in money. So being able to show something flashy, and being able to show that that aligned with my motivation to spy, and sort of build this character in front of the Russians. I literally lifted dialogue from movies like &quot;Casino Royale.&quot; It was really helpful because there was no Insofar as being able to drive fast and all that, the answer is yes. You want to do things that aren't going to attract attention, but there are defensive to make sure that someone's What I would do is go really, really fast, right before an exit slam on the brakes, pull to the shoulder, wait then do it again. And it was just a way of making sure that no one was following you. I'll see you back here in a half an hour. Right now, I have a lovely wondering if you're ever This is something that Unknown to Bond, that she was working to help save the life of her boyfriend. And then once she got attached to Bond, she then flipped again and I'll kill her! Credibility and the capability it's all about motivation. And generally speaking, which is understood to It stands for money, Coercion can be a pretty good way to get people to do very specific things. But again, it's probably one for a long-term relationship. So when I was sort of my real motivation to was to help the FBI writing a letter of recommendation so I could join the Navy So I couldn't really go to and say, &quot;I'm really here So it came down to money and ego, the two easiest things as my motivation. I'll give this movie an eight. Is that all you have to offer? I don't believe you're in Fine, then. Kill me. Everything. Everything is a negotiation. I negotiated with the FBI. I So, in so far as Anna that's completely believable, right? You don't want to just say, &quot;Sure,&quot; because then they're going to say, &quot;Why is she doing this so easily?&quot; So when I was sitting down with Oleg, my Russian GRU case officer, I pushed really hard for money. And that was a constant The Russians, for their And also, they don't want to validate you. Just like Anna said, I would, you know, I'd say, &quot;Hey, man, I'm done. If you're not going to pay Here goes. You work then we make you disappear. You ever been to Arizona? Hawaii. Hawaii. All right, Hawaii it is. Yeah, they'd probably send her There's no way that he had approval that he's going to relocate her to Hawaii. This is, as you can A lot of people have to sign off on it. So you would never, ever say that if you hadn't already gotten approval. So, Oleg and the FBI They were given certain parameters of what they could negotiate with me, but they could not And so, maddeningly, what happened with me was &quot;We can't. We have to check.&quot; Say things very noncommittal. Would the US intelligence community offer someone relocation, Absolutely, if they deemed it important. I'm going to say it's about a five. There's just so much there Captain: Once the word was found, I'd make note of the page. The coded numbers would reveal themselves with a brush of iodine solution. Their portrayal of tradecraft, So, first of all, it's that the spy is most in hostile territory, whereas his or her case So you have to find another to both pass intelligence or pass messages but also to receive direction. The intelligence service but part of it is also just, again, how you want to do it. So the selection of that he felt the most Even in my case, which I communicated with the Russians by posting something on Craigslist. So we had agreed upon a city, and I would post a message, that didn't require them to respond. Captain: Claude knew I could He wanted me to. You want to avoid detection. So completely plausible they'd be meeting in a bar Both the FBI and the Russians met with me both in public, and then in private to have much more intense debriefings. But insofar as the Russians, for taking me to Hooters, The comments that Oleg would It was just weird. It was like being with a gross uncle. We were, like, trading state secrets over f---ing, like, chicken wings. It absolutely does happen. Captain: For the revolution, I infiltrated the secret police and sent intelligence back to Hanoi. Take yourself out of commission or give us a chance to talk at leisure. So much of that is believable. I mean, what you're watching here is the Captain essentially disclosing how he's passing And then secondly, getting Those are both very believable things in terms of the tradecraft. But the goal of coercion It's not to sort of flip him, necessarily. So to use coercion in that manner is absolutely an I'm going to give this a nine. I feel like everything The tradecraft, the approach, the motivation, it all tracks. Central Intelligence? Train you as an agent. You'd be working for The idea that recruitment or the process of recruitment absolutely. H--- yes. You're not going to bring where they could be as someone working for you. That could essentially blow their cover. For the FBI, in my case, was in a Dunkin' Donuts in Midtown. So, &quot;Spy Game&quot; doesn't necessarily I think &quot;Spy Game&quot; is probably that a movie shows the relationship between case officer and operative. And for me, &quot;Spy Game&quot; of what it was like to work for the FBI. You just gave her four pieces What if she were an asset? You told her four lies This is the most important rule. You just heard Robert Redford. He says, &quot;You now told her four What if she was an asset?&quot; And that is absolutely true, is that even the most mundane thing, you can't lie about it. One of the biggest about double agent or is that you're a liar. You can omit the truth. That's very, very different. You cannot volunteer it. But actively lying, that you have to commit to forevermore. So I love that movie. I'm going to give it a 10. I think everything about it, in terms of the relationship in &quot;Spy Game&quot; between Brad Pitt, who's the operative, and Robert Redford, who's The Russian agent is Salt. My name is Evelyn Salt. Then you are a Russian spy. So, when we see Salt say that she is a Russian agent, which in fact does turn out because she's a double agent, actually, there are instances historically where the allegiance of certain assets or case officers has been questioned, both So it is not outside of that a hostile intelligence service would shoot, essentially, disinformation to try to confuse the allegiance and tie up that intelligence service. So, in the scene we just saw in &quot;Salt&quot; where her husband is it's an extreme test of loyalty. And while I don't know that violence is always something that's used, loyalty is constantly tested. It wasn't so much about what you said in terms of believability, but rather answering Actually, I'm going to give it an eight. I think that the concept of and that is something for as long as you're working. Do you have anything to sell? I have the first set of disks with me. $250,000 per delivery, as agreed. Price of $250,000 is believable because it's important to understand that when it comes to an $250,000 is not a big thing for them. However, the question of what you charge is something that I And I think in many cases, there's no, it's not like you can go on Indeed.com and look at what the comps are. So you have to come up with Everything all right? I just have to wait for them to load. This idea of swapping out information, I suppose it's plausible. Certainly, it would lead to the potential of the double agent being exposed. It is absolutely realistic and to see someone sort of ad-libbing it. That was certainly the case with me. There was one point where I met with Oleg and we were showing him a database that had access to a real time. And at one point he just and said, &quot;Can I have this?&quot; And he's like, &quot;Well, can you just put it on this?&quot; In that brief second, I What would be my reason to say no? So I'm going to give this, I'm going to give it an eight. That scene I think is appropriate, in terms of Jennifer Lawrence Control: A Hungarian He has the name of the mole in the British intelligence service. So, I think &quot;Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy&quot; really nails that, nails one of the biggest threats The fundamental, main plot of &quot;Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy&quot; is that British intelligence So this idea that you don't know if your service has been penetrated. You know, counterintelligence, on that defensive move is And, look, in terms of the US, there's plenty of historical examples, whether it's Aldrich all these senior people in the national security of this country, in our ability to collect intelligence, because they essentially How the operations very quickly from the Soviet side go south, where they try to shoot him actually, it is, I think, that, look, there is always And if it does occur, it's that you might see in other movies. It is this unintended consequence. And it is something that is a clear sign of failing in an operation. It's hard to give this I mean, it is as -- the as it was a book. And again, it's written by someone who actually walked the I mean, Carre, the author of the book, was in British intelligence. He understands intimately and how these operations work. Do you want to stop this I'll tell you where the bomb There's this idea that she for essentially helping. That concept's not alien. Things like immunity make sense when you start talking someone who is cooperating from a law-enforcement activity, that is very different from something that is an intelligence So in my world, probably not that likely. So in your assessment, Nina Myers is our best Sir, she may be our only chance. There's this idea that of information. That is In the lead-up to the invasion of Iraq and this idea that there were that, from the Brits and the US, was traced back to one person who was essentially shown later on to have been fabricating So again, a level of, that an intelligence service, hopefully, would not rely on one single for something so grave as nuclear weapons. I'm going to give &quot;24&quot; a four just because it is, I think, a little bit of a bridge too What are you doing? You want to be an agent or don't you? &quot;Breach&quot; is based on a very true event, true story, I should say. It's based on Robert an FBI counterintelligence agent actually stationed here in New York. And he was and he has been described as one of the worst spies against the United States in our history. I mean, personally, I think There was that moment where, you know, people like him caused people You're not burned. No, I'm not burned. Kate: OK, we're on it. The FBI is the lead agency when it comes to Counterintelligence is so important because the intelligence in the United States has, I believe, become even more pronounced. The change that I have seen versus my time doing this. So what has shifted with the is that they're relying more on people that are less easily identifiable as intelligence officers, essentially, or in some cases, coming non-official cover. So they're coming here, integrating, and collecting intelligence. And it's much, much let alone do anything against it legally. I think what the FBI desperately needs is young people who have enthusiasm and an interest in innovation. I'm going to give this a nine you know, it's a factual story. I think they get the emotion right. My favorite double agent spy movie is actually not a double and it's &quot;Spy Game.&quot; I think that it really showcases what I spent most of my time with, which was not the Russians, but the FBI. And I think &quot;Spy Game&quot; really Hey, thanks for watching. If you liked this, I hope you'll check out the next episode in this series.