In the summer of 1565, Malta became the and the Ottoman empire was furious about it. See, got violently evicted from their home in Rhodes by Maltese archipelago, the Knights got ready for Ottomans and all of Christian Europe, the Knights and halting the once-unstoppable Ottoman advance to be a colossal pain in the ass, and so became decades following, these grateful rulers lavished saving the world, and as a result, the Knights of their new home into an impervious seaborne palace, look, the place is pretty, okay? So to show you reputation of the Great Siege and become an siege was finally over, priority one was building. Harbor, where the Knights' capital of Birgu forts got overrun and battered. Grandmaster and new capital was in order, but rather than move he stuck to the harbor and picked the of the Knights' new city, La Valletta. The city with a grid plan and vastly overhauled defenses in the siege and clearly needed an upgrade, so limestone to fortify the peninsula. After many Europe who financed Malta's new HQ, Valletta was centuries, the Knights steadily upgraded St Elmo and they also added more forts around the harbor, Gozo as well as the old city of Mdina, and the 1610s. With enough limestone fortifications a triple-layer citadel, with Valletta as the at large. These fortifications were never directly to the Ottomans was clear: Malta was impossible so good goddamn luck trying to take it now. Seeing as our boys the Knights were Crusaders was churches, and as Valletta took shape, they Our Lady of Victory as the city's first church the Knights built the Conventual Church of St John saint. Today we know it as St John's Co-Cathedral about it, it's fine. The church, like everything in a style that's big but not overtly showy, so real aesthetic and thematic heft is inside, as just how thankful Europe was for the Knights' gold on marble on gold on gold on gold. Beyond the there's a mountain of iconography relating the of Europe they came from. Rather than divide by or Langue in French, reflecting the major Auvergne, France, Provence, Castile, Aragon, its own chapel in St John's, and these 8 also cross. All this universalizes the Knights in given their origins as crusader-doctors in the cooperation stuck around. Most Knights could point so if the Knights weren't from Malta, Malta could Order lent Malta a Catholic universality, as well Europe. Thematic architecture is expensive. Now, each Langue had an administrative and Inn. The Knights originally built their Auberges and then built new ones in Valletta after the called the Mannerist Style, then 3 Auberges and the 16 and 1700s in the subsequent Baroque Style. the terminology is far more troublesome than it's described the Renaissance Architectural Style of ancient Greek and Roman ideas. Strictly because that term to refers exclusively to the characterized as a return to the simplicity to the elaborate swooshy opulence of Baroque. I term "Neoclassical" to one specific era, I just term for the Renaissance family of architectures. Knights is some form of Neoclassical, but within term. All granular terminology will struggle to loses me. This architecture does play a little different from earlier Renaissance works in Italy. more depth, more flair, More Size, so it's helpful me is just Renaissance Before Baroque. I'm sorry I'm sorry, this term just makes no sense to me. In that vein, many Maltese buildings started out fit the contemporary Baroque style, whether that's Grandmaster's Palace, or altering the whole face Baroque Auberges of Provence Italie and Castile. rebuilt entirely in the 1740s. And several other massive Sicilian earthquake in 1693, which takes arrived, the old Maltese aristocracy kept largely out by the grand harbor, and the city maintained had for centuries. But after the earthquake the Norman-era Cathedral of St Paul, the Knights building over the ruins, making new city gates, and new centerpiece Cathedral of St Paul; all didn't super belong to the Knights, but all, can't be that surprised: once a crusader baroque works bubbled up from the city, with fancy Crusaders, man, I tell ya. By the end of the 1700s, tiny little Malta could few could boast the raw aesthetic cohesion of a the city was either carved out of the peninsula damn is that a look. But at the turn of the 1800s, Napoleon who in turn got booted by Britain, who in 1964. In this century and a half, the big capital-N Neoclassical, which is to say: trying and Roman architecture. The British renovated the added a mini Greek-temple as a monument in Cathedral for Saint Paul in the style of a big Chapel for the Royal Navy boys. All told, just a them myself while visiting Malta, they really city. Even when Malta was part of someone else's uniquely striking than before. Impressive. One getting bombed to bits in WWII. The Second Siege needing heavy repairs or outright replacement in war, one of the most dramatic is the Basilica of now at last the city is complete - the other is a vividly modern City Gate, Parliament House, limestone keeps them cohesive with the rest of welcoming feeling of a civic plaza. Malta became statement makes it all click: a modern yet very it is a historical one. What I find so compelling every block of limestone. The Knights represented in their iconography, artwork, and capital city. monumental architecture rising out of it is just a Greek and Roman aesthetics is a bonus-bonus to me Catholicism in miniature, the British Empire in It's a singular example of how opulent form stunningly greater than each on its own. Not La Valletta is the empire. Thank you for watching. I cannot believe I I need to go think about some stuff. This to Malta with me earlier this year, I hope this does for me. Thanks as always to our community of