Hello, dear viewers, please support Halimah's family with likes and comments. Thank you We are waiting for your comments and suggestions. Please contact us on WhatsApp at 98/09922175260. Somia, I have to go and collect some oaks. Let's do it and take it to the city and sell it soon. Take care of Ali, mother, please come back. &quot;Dear viewers, the name of this fruit that Mrs. Halima collects is oak. &quot; I will explain 1 __ In the nomadic culture, oak bread is made from oak, which is very tasty and is a good treatment for many diseases such as heartache and stomach ache. 2_ Nomadic people can eat oak after cooking it and it is very delicious . It is also a good food for animals and nomadic people earn money by selling oak. 4 ___ There is a thin shell inside the oak that they can use to make paint after the oak dries. Oak trees grow naturally. Oak trees often grow in nomadic areas. Oak wood is very strong. The oak tree is very popular among the nomadic people and it is a kind of a sacred symbol. Earthquakes and floods rarely happen in the nomadic areas and the reason is the presence of oak trees in these areas. Nomadic women use the dried leaves of oak trees a lot. One of these Uses are making mattresses for new born babies. Please support Mrs. Halimah's family with likes and comments. Thank you. Ali is sleeping. It is raining. We must collect the oaks. The devil is back again . I was apologizing to you, I got sick, why did you come? where are you I'm not feeling well, I'm sick. When I left here, I caught a cold. I feel very bad. I lost my wallet. I went to the pharmacy. I didn't have money to buy medicine. I begged and took this syrup. The doctor said I should be hospitalized. I lost my wallet, and I had no money. I came. Let me ask you here, did you not see my wallet? You didn't find my wallet? _No, this syrup is for cough and sore throat. Do you want to accuse us of stealing? I'm very sick, I need to drink syrup. I'm glad you got sick. Do you want to accuse us of stealing again? No, I'm not accusing you of stealing, I just asked, did you see my wallet here? __ No, we didn't meet Mr. Asad, I didn't behave well with you, I'm sorry, I'm very bad, please help me, I made a mistake and I apologize to Mr. Asad, weren't you in the city?? Why didn't you go to the hospital and come here? There is no hospital or pharmacy here. I feel very bad. My throat hurts. If you want to get well soon, you should go back to your home and leave us. Mr. Assad. I am very bad. Please help me . Mr. Assad. Please help me. Mr. Assad. Please help me. Take me to the hospital or give me some money so I can go to the hospital myself, Kerm, you came here on the pretext of losing your wallet and you want to make trouble for us. Please get up and go. If you are sick, you should not come near us, we might get sick too. You always come here, that's why you caught a cold, my throat hurts. __ It doesn't concern us, if you are sick, why did you lay down in this cold weather?? __ I feel very bad, where is Ali? You got Corona, Mr. Asad, please help me. Mr. Asad is not talking to you. __ I will help Mr. Assad on time. I made a mistake. You always make mistakes. I have a sore throat. I feel very bad. Get up, go, don't pass your virus on to us . Who is in the cave? What do you want to do? I want to see little Ali. ___ You are not allowed to see Ali, don't pass your virus on to him, get up, go, I have to look for my wallet. __ no your wallet is not here get up and go we don't like you coming here you caused us a lot of trouble you want to fool us but we won't fool you anymore you big devil Mr. Assad please take me to the hospital or some money Give it to me so that I can go to the hospital myself. If we had money, we would buy a piece of land. We don't have money . ___ No, we don't allow you to come near the cave, you are making Ali sick, my body is shivering from the cold, what are you doing?? __ We are gathering acorns to earn some money but you are telling us to pay you to go to the hospital Mr. Asad, please help me. Mr. Asad always helps us and he has no money to help you. Mr. Asad always supports us . I have to look for my bag. ___ No, you shouldn't get close to little Ali, please don't get close to Ali, he will get sick. ___ shut up, I want to find my bag, where are you going? You make Ali sick! Please give me the oaks so that I can take them to the city and sell them and cure myself . Go here 91 00:25:12,000 --&gt; 00:25:10,000 We worked hard to collect these oaks, you want us to give you the oaks??? I need to find my wallet. ___ I won't let you get close to Ali. You are sick and you are making Ali sick. Where did you find this hat? I made a lot of effort to collect these acorns but you want to take these acorns from me by force Mr. Asad Please let me find my wallet Mr. Hosseinpour Please don't go near the cave Don't pass the virus to Ali Get out of here I don't want to fight, I just came here to find my wallet. ___ Your wallet is not here, no problem, mother, let him look for his wallet, go with him yourself, Mr. Asad, this man only came here with this excuse, your wallet is not here, Mr. Asad, I feel very bad, I have to look for my wallet and return to the city soon, Mr. Hossein Poor, please come back Mr. Asad, please help me, take me to the hospital or give me some money, you are sick, don't go near Ali, you must be beaten, what did you lose? Listen to me, what have you lost? I lost my money cards, all my important cards were in my wallet and I lost my wallet, I must look for my wallet, it 's okay, look for your wallet, if you can't find it, you should leave here, be quick, search and leave here, we were here and the wallet We didn't find your money. Please, if you have my wallet, give it to me . Did you find it? I have to search everywhere. Maybe you found my wallet and hid it. We didn't see yours. Where is my wallet? I have to search this whole place. You are allowed to search everywhere, but I don't allow you to go inside the cave and get close to Ali . I have to search inside the cave. ___ No, I won't let you get close to Ali, you'll make him sick. You didn't lose your bag here. You didn't have any card. How do you say I lost my card? You had nothing to lose, you just used the excuse of missing the bag . __ I don't have money, go back, you broke the glass of my camera and I don't have money to change the glass of the camera, why didn't you let me live here with you? I love you very much and I will never divorce you. __ But I don't like you, when you got a second wife, you threw me out of the house. __ But I want to live with you, I'm sick, I'm not well, you come here every day, so why did you get a second wife? I'm sick, I'm not well. If Zahra &quot;second wife&quot; was by my side, I would never get sick. Whenever I feel better, I'll go to Zahra's brother's house and bring Zahra here with me. Zahra Ali is sleeping. Speak quietly. I'm not well, please don't touch me. If you're not well, why are you calling Zahra loudly? 151 00:35:57,000 --&gt; 00:35:53,000 Please give me back my wallet. __ Your bag is not with us, please help me, why don't you leave us alone? &quot;Dear viewers, Mr. Karam said that I want to bring my second wife here, but be sure that this is not true and we will never allow Mr. Karam and his second wife to live in this cave.&quot; Get out of here, please let me see little Ali for a few minutes. ___ You are sick and we don't allow you to get close to Ali. Ali himself had a cold before and now he is better, but you want to make him sick again. I am not well, I can't go. Mr. Asad, please help me. Mr. Operator, please give me some money. Let me go to the hospital, get up from here Get up, get up, hurry up, get up, get up, your wallet is not here, don't accuse us of stealing, go, you got a second wife and sold the house, you must always live without a shelter, my daughter Samia, go to Ali, I have to collect the oaks, where are you taking the oaks? ? &quot;Dear viewers, I repeat again, be sure that Mr. Karam and his second wife never live in a cave, and this cave only belongs to Mrs. Halima's family.&quot; Leave the oaks, why don't you leave us alone? I'm not feeling well, I'm sick and I don't have money to buy medicine. Please help me. Put the oaks down. Why are you bothering us so much? Give me the acorns to sell and buy medicine. Go find a job and work, I can't work. __ Go get a job. Please give me the acorns. Drop the bag. If you're sick, why are you behaving like this? I will leave here, I will borrow money from my friends and buy medicine, but you will regret it . &quot;Dear viewers, rest assured that Mr. Karam and his second wife will never live in the cave and next to Mrs. Halimah's family.&quot; Winter is made&quot; &quot;We will never allow Mr. Karam and his second wife to live in the new cave of Halimah's family&quot; &quot;So please don't worry and support Halimah's family with likes and comments&quot; Please like and comment for Halimah's family Thank you for your support. We are waiting for your comments and suggestions. Contact us on WhatsApp at 98/09922175260. Thank you very much for watching.