All right. where being able to break every bone it's Stickman Destruction Heroes. Every stick man's life or just standing on their hands waiting to randomly headbutt and then drag their spinal Now, as you can imagine, this is a game with more bones which allows you to buy is that a trebuchet on wheels? I was going to say, usually, or a motorcycle, or a trebuchet. This might actually Do I get all the stick figures in this one because this was like a whole family How much money do you eventually get? This is 200,000 coins. Obviously, that looks like a good position the gigantic kick right to the sternum. What's the very first thing I can buy? You always want to buy I can tell you right now. I don't know why, but the shopping cart That was a good throw. That was the patented buttock This is such an inappropriate way to land. I was going to say, We're almost at 1,000 which is good. There's always more boards Why are they always only one word? Oh, High Voltage. Oh, God. I want to do this one now. First things first, I can't get anywhere without an awesome vehicle Maybe, if I do this on my hands. Yes, look at that. Big distance with the full headbutt, then I'm going to use I basically just doubled my point total. Now, I can finally get the skateboard. Let me tell you something, kids. Hold on. Right here. That right face first, a couple of flips right there. There goes some pieces of my skateboard My skateboard is very bouncy. Ah, yes. Going down, using Maybe, that was a good idea I can get a new character Does he do anything Does he explode more violently? Ejection. I don't really know [laughs] Hello there, skateboard. Haven't seen you in so long. Only 71 Bone Breaking on that one. Let's go ahead and eject from here. Get that right about there. Then, Look at that, skull, broken right there. Beautiful. Beautiful forward momentum. Then, we're going to do-- That's the small package from the WWE. He's down. That's a three count. There's a lot of things I want-- what? When they said eject out of the vehicle, Oh, maybe I should have been using There it is. Ow, stop hitting me. I didn't know there was this many wheels Shopping Cart. This is very important. Shopping carts are basically the gateway See, right off the bat, 700 points. What are the ways That looks safe. You know what, ejecting from this position 200, 400, 580, 600, 635. Not bad. Bam, 1,100 points. Oh, yes, big points. My shopping cart also destroyed my skeleton Wow. Oh, I can buy props now. What kind of props? Hi, is it just a lightning bolt? It's just a lightning bolt. I want it. First things first, and we're going to go ahead nice and very patiently roll down this hill. Then, we're going to eject ourselves. You know what, There we are. Go. That's better. You get a couple points I can finally buy my first prop. Why is another human a prop? I want to save my money I love eating bricks. I find it interesting that my butt what is going on here, Run me over. I want it. Ow. It was fine. We can finally buy this prop [laughs]. I still don't know what he is doing here. I guess he is just there for me It's a really strange situation to be in. Oh wow. I didn't actually know If he gets hurt, I got to reach this guy. I need some extra distance. I just shot a bunch of bricks I need to hit him myself. Just staying inside of the shopping cart is harder than I thought it would be. Yay. [laughs]. I landed in a perfect seated position. We've almost got the next level unlocked. I found the best way to get points here is to wait until you're at the bottom, eject out with all the speed you can. Then, look at this. I just dropped a knee All right. Close to 800 points. That's going to get us to the next level. Double props. Now, what props am I allowed? I guess I can have two people Here we are. It's not exactly I own them, I guess I'm just paying they can't really go Let us go ahead and break then break my skull and then swipe our way down to the bottom for a cool clean 2,300 points Oh, yes. We're going to get What happens if I eject way up here? That is my tailbone Luckily, Just let me go, man. I'm slowly falling off He's holding me by my toes. I'm going to eject way up here. Oh, that's not great. Oh, actually, maybe it is. Luckily, my shopping cart helped me out a little bit when I thought I don't know how I broke my foot there. Oh, big forward flip. Oh, man, just as good as it looks, 2,600 points. I had just broke my skull so many times, Someone's arm came off. Why? Nothing happened. I wasn't a part of that. I didn't do that. That's not my fault. I would distinctly remember for another man's arm Oh, wow. The wheels on my toe-- the wheels on my shopping an extra 1,000 points on that drop. Oh, We're going to get Couple of runs You can see 1,000 points Big landing for 1,100, All right, Speed. Here I come. Speaking of which, I guess I can go for another vehicle Now, there's a booster. There's going to be two guys in the way that I guess I'm just going to run The problem is I don't have anything Do you know what I mean? This thing Is this any faster? Not really. Mainly, I'm just curious what happens How much of a boost is this? Is this a minor boost, I'm not feeling a lot of boost there. This guy's like, Get headbutted. Why is it? It's just dragging him away. Oh, my God. I had to come back to this board, oh, wow, because I needed to get some extra points, Oh, God, 15,000 to unlock the motorcycle. I think that's going to happen pretty-- 2,000 Bone Breaking. All right. 15,000, Motorcycle. Now, I'm going to test it on this board just to see how-- Oh, my God. Whoa. Oh, my God. This is the right vehicle Are you ready? Oh, no. Why? My helmet did nothing for me. I'm still on the motorcycle luckily. This guy in-- I think I'm fine. I think everyone here is fine. I think we may be stacking Wait for it, eject. I just wanted to see I don't know if I would get as many points because I'm not on the motorcycle anymore. I need to be on the motorcycle. Whose motorcycle helmet is this, It barely fits [laughs]. It's the first thing that leaves my body, My motorcycle helmet just broke my spine. You betrayed me, motorcycle helmet. You've betrayed me violently. Real quick, we need to buy some props, we can buy this ramp here. [laughs] Wait for it. Wait for it. Wait for it. Yes, oh, God. Hold on, I have a better idea. We're actually going to put the guy there, and we're going to put the ramp there. Now, we're going to stay Through the boost, through the guy. Now, him and I, we're in this together. He ain't going-- Most of him isn't going nowhere. Oh, I landed on the wheel. Oh, my motorcycle is murdering me. 6,500 and 5,000 bone breaking. Oh, this is just a point extravaganza, This is so good. Hold on. Oh, I am inside of the motorcycle. It is randomly breaking my thighs. The motorcycle completely fell apart. Now, I tried to eject That did not work out well for me. Stop taking my helmet off. I need that helmet. It's important to my survival Luckily, there's a ceiling in this board. Kept me from completely Now, I can buy a new board. Now, we can buy whatever this is. Oh, it's just a trio of dudes [laughs]. Why not? Let me get Now, what other ways can I, This is not how you ride a motorcycle, [laughs] The guy at the bottom We totally missed him. How about over here then? Oh, this looks like such a bad idea. Oh, [laughs] my motorcycle took a man's head off. We can afford this wall. I'm going to buy this wall I don't even know if I can hit but we can try. Oh, no. We can totally hit the wall. Oh, 11,000 points. I went back to this area, This is going to be the place to get big points. What I've got is we got a guy Now, him and I are becoming We see each other all the time. Then, we have this wall right here, and this wall just We're at 7,000, 8,000, 9,000. Yes, so good. The points on this board are ballistic. Look at this. 9,200, 9,400. I'm getting my tongue skinned We can buy a new board, but I actually want like this race car right now. How fast and how good is the race car? Oh, the race car's pretty fast. Oh, my God. The race car is so fast Oh, wow. Oh, the race goes amazing. 2,900. 3,500, 4,400. [laughs] I'm going to hit this wall so hard. Oh, God. This is a very special Very important attempt. Oh, no. Oh, the motorcycles actually better than the sports car for gaining points. Look at the numbers. Sitting on a motorcycle I've ever had in my life because we're going to skip What? [laughs] We're going to skip I'm back in the booster. High Voltage. What's so high voltage? Well, let's get some people here. That seems like a great idea, We'll see what kind of voltage All right. It shocks you a little bit. I don't think it's incredible or anything. Right now, there's an extra guy down there. What's more valuable than one guy? The answer is two guys. I am slowly learning and value with every run here What you do is you sit on the front. That causes you to lean back, I don't even know what to call that. Then, this happens, and from there, you end up between 6,000 I'm actually going to get this mist because I can use Put the mist at the bottom, Go real fast. Now, we're going to blast Whoa. You can definitely but you need the right kind of board in order to get the true value out of it. Oh, my God, this guy's knees Oh. Oh. On the plus side, Oh, yes. Oh, my God. I don't even know I can have-- Oh, God. Oh. Nothing really seems that good here just to see what it does. I don't think it crushes you enough. That's the problem. Maybe the problem is too, I'm stuck here getting my intestines I knew it was going to take I can safely say infinite points. Don't mind me, Pretty normal, I would say, around Florida here. We drive our vehicles I am going for a new Bone Breaking record. What's the total value 10,000. 21,000 Bone Breaking. I went ahead and got the machine. I'm not going to lie, I put myself over here, then we're going to go ahead Then, we're going to immediately I really want to get double-tapped with All right. What we're going to do Here we go. I'd like to see I ended up ejecting, wow, Oh, my knee. Why God? Why? Are you ready? Oh, no. I think this guy's butt It totally did. Oh. I was going to say, and all of a sudden, part of his body Actually, There, just put a wall here. Now, I can go, I can eject. Perfect. Now, it's just the wall breaking my spine. That's nice. Nice seat, You know what? TNT, see what it's like when you blow up. Oh, it's real good. Oh, yes. Oh yes. Do it. Something else I wanted He went flying, so much for that. Then, the TNT box. Don't even ask how I did this. I legitimately don't know. All right. We're buying the saw blades. Now, to put the saw Now, you grab whatever vehicle you want. It really doesn't matter. I might as well buy this bicycle actually. All right. Now, we go ahead and bike I mean getting grinded by a saw blade. Oh, give me those sweet points. Oh, give me the sweet points, baby. I need to know Oh, the board is inside of my body. Oh, we're going to be getting Oh, we're going to be getting More saw blades, I love it. Oh, there's one more piece of saw blades, 20,000 in points, doing nothing. I love it. Oh, yes. We're not done yet. We're not done yet. 27,000. Big back flip. Oh, my God. 32,000. Keep it going. 35,000, 36,000, 38,000, yes, indeed. 42,000 is incredible. Infinite points. This is my new favorite board right here. This is my new favorite board. I don't need another board I'm going to get the last board The amount of points you can get Rise up and fall down. Rise up and fall down. This is how you get infinite points. You can just walk away, and see how many points you have. The best part is that my bike is off getting its own points If you notice, I'm at 15,000 points. Watch this, 17,000 points, 20,000 points. I think I've got a pretty good setup here. I actually got the car lodged over here on the right because all these blades have a tendency to throw you to the right, The car feeds me back here now and again. This seems like a great idea. Yes. I knew it would be a great idea Well, now my foot's caught Don't even ask me. I don't know how I manage this. I just know that it's incredible. Ride a cowboy, yeehaw. How many points would you like, Gray? All of the points. Don't mind me. Just violently gyrating for points. You know how it is. 20,000 points. No, not good enough. 24,000 points. That's all right. I guess the best way is to get a wheel stuck and the grinder and look I can do this pretty much every time now. I'm getting like 50,000 per go. Now let me show you. You get on the bike. Put your feet on the top over here. All right, you hit this. All right. Then, the parts get stuck in between the grindy You could usually get just because you're locked in there. You can see here, I don't know, probably 20,000 or so, It's actually going to be a lot more than 20,000.43,000. I unlocked the Hulk. He's terrible. I don't know why but his thick almost impossible to get He just doesn't get destroyed enough, You see, I'm getting spanked lighter because I'm not the Hulk, That's what you want because this is what gets I'm sorry did I say 40,000? I meant 47,000. I'm sorry. Did I say 47,000? I meant 52,000, or you know, 60,000. You know what? 66,000.70,000. Yes, nothing by a rapidly spinning blade. I got a new personal best over here. It's a 90,000 so far. I guess it could just be infinite, but I don't know if I want We're at 100,000. Oh, thank you. I can keep all these points for once. 139,000 points. We have 500,000. It's time to buy the final board Top secret board. The final vehicle is a Cannon Ball. Why? It could have been anything, I'm buying the van in the stupid van just All right. You take all these guys out. Oh, and then you get blown. Then, there's grinders, Oh, my God. Then, finally, you come to rest and your friends inside of a meat blender. Anyway, folks, of Hero Stickman Till the next time.