Hi, there. I'm an Adobe certified instructor here at, And together, me and you are going to started with Adobe Photoshop. Now, this course is for There is no need to have any or any photography or We're gonna start at the beginning and Now, we're not gonna go through every What we're gonna do is, we're gonna work through real world Then, we'll learn the tools and features necessary to make We'll start by getting the most Correcting the lights and the color. Also, how to change the colors We'll spend some time with text, along with all of its effects. I'll share some amazing cropping and to transform and distort images so I'll show you all my Cleaning up small imperfections as well Before the end of this course, you'll But you'll also have the skills for a super tricky masks like this, There's lots more as well, knowing the best practices for So it's just a really good foundation for I set some exercises through the course so that you can practice the skills So if you've never opened up Photoshop or you've struggled with it, follow me and I will show you the best ways to make All right, it is time to get started. Now the first thing you can do is The source files are just the files you can download those and play along. And there are projects that get Not homework, there are super But if you wanna share those with us, So go to the forums and search for Also you can share on social media. Twitter, we are Tuts+ Design or Or on Instagram, Okay, so share what you get up to. Next thing we need to do is we We'll jump into the computer now and All right, so let's just get our screens all looking So first just got up to Window, And doesn't really matter what yours is Okay, so what we're also gonna do So back up to Window &gt; Workspaces and just And that's just gonna get So yeah, All right, so boring stuff over, Let's start looking at Hi there, in this video, We're gonna do some adjustments to this see the different effects, and really just All right, Okay, so first thing to do is, Now from the files that you've that Okay, this image comes to us free from Let's open them up, thanks Milos. So the first thing we need to do is mine's over here. If you can't see it, go to Window and What we might do is, We're gonna look at him he takes up quite a lot Now, my screen's quite big, When I'm working on my laptop, I always go through and just to give yourself Okay, so down here in my layers panel, By default, when you're opening up a JPEG, it'll be locked, okay? What we wanna do is right-click go to this one that says Duplicate Layer. We're gonna give it a name, Okay, and that's the first of the Now, it hasn't changed anything, of each other, okay, Now, with the auto tone layer selected, in earlier versions of Photoshop, So we're gonna select it, let's go up You ready, stand back, and pretty cool? Pretty cool little automatic feature. Now, what auto tone's doing is, it's shadows, and trying to find kind of Okay, so it goes and does that for us, When do I use that, I use that quite a lot not gonna be the front cover of a magazine It's just, I want a quick fix, okay, and they're just not quite perfect. I'm gonna go through and use something upload them to social media. So over here in my layers panel, it's a little hard to see, What we can do is turn the eyeball just click the eye right in the middle. Okay, and now we can see the layer So the background's still there, Okay, and I can turn this top one on and Now when you're working with layers, So imagine you're always a bird flying And I can turn the eye on and off for It's because auto tone's covering it, then you off. Okay, so that's I guess what is getting an understanding of layers. Let's do the next of the automatic okay, so I turned off auto tone. Let's select the background layer and go to Duplicate Layer. Let's look at the other feature, let's click OK. Then with that layer selected, it should then let's go run the other options. Okay, it's better, okay, And so note that we've used auto Now let's compare it to auto tone on, off, on, off. Sometimes it can be a little hard in depending on the video quality And I can see a real clear difference stronger darks. Now, don't think auto contrast is Okay, what you'll find is, Sometimes I open up stuff and auto contrast does a great job. So open up your image and Okay, figure out which is the best, and then say you've got Then as long as they're kind of situation, you can often not have to try So we've got auto tone, which is nice, my So let's turn the two eyes Let's look at the last of Right-click background, call it Auto Tone, nope, we're using Let's go to Image and Pretty good, okay, Now if I turn them all on, I know auto contrast is not that great, And what happens is, if I have this off, If I wanna compare auto tone with color, And as long as auto contrast is off, you'd imagine you're seeing auto color. Turn it back on, you can kinda see I'm to see the difference. You have to experiment a little bit and Okay, and if it makes it a little easier, you can just click on him and click on Okay, keeps the layers a little bit Let's say that we want auto So we want it underneath auto color, okay, he's at the back. So click, hold, and you'll see this little blue line appears. Okay, that little blue line, it's a little Okay, I would like you to play around, I would like you to have So auto, my ABCs, auto color's at the top, then auto contrast, and Just to practice dragging them, And you'll notice that the difference auto contrast, on the video, minutely different, Then it's kind of up to do you like auto color better or Now, if you go through, just run that one automatic feature. All right, so we looked at some of the cool little Now we're gonna use layers So if you're finding, man, that was We're gonna kind of work through them you'll get a bit more One of the things we'll have to do before Now we opened it up, remember, Now if I go to File &gt; Save, you can't be a JPEG, why is that? A JPEG can't have more than one layer, that's it. If you had not created these other layers, it would have just saved Okay, but Photoshop says, you're gonna have to be this Photoshop And I'm happy for you to save it straight name, the only thing Don't change any of the settings, This little Photoshop format Don't worry about this, okay, it just this as a PSD, do you want me to save And all that means is that it's more Photoshop. Okay, so I always leave this on, it just leave it on and Because it's not something that I'm gonna leave mine on I need to explain this thing. It's a pain, but Cool, so let's finish this off And before you go, let's practice that, And I want you to, on your own, the Tevin Dodson, thank you very much for And I'd like to set you a task, duplicate the background layer, Okay, and I want you to practice with And then I want you to reorder them to the Remember, it's not always 100% perfect, But drag the one that you think is the and stack them up, just a bit of practice. All right, and where we are going to look at a little bit Where we show you how to work with paste from one to the other, All right, Hello friends, in this video we're going to look at Okay, we learned a little bit in now we're going to start moving things So, we're going to combine one, put them all together on this one So, few little shortcuts, just the things that get used quite a lot. It's best to use the the teeny, I promise not to overwhelm you much, Let's get started now. All right, so we need to open up all of those So we're gonna go to File and we're gonna be using Okay, thank you very much, Jessica. And it's the three, okay? There's A, B, C, and D. Now, you can click one and open them all individually if A little trick though, is select the first And they should all be selected, Now, what's happening is, you can see So all the images are open in tabs. If for some reason, yours doesn't, okay, go to Window &gt; Arrange, and Now there is, there's probably three or Now, I'm just going to show you the one reasonably easy. So we want to, this first image here, this is where we want to So this first one here, and the way to kind of drag it to this tab So we're going to grab the Move tool, which is the first one in And you click and hold with your hold the center of this image and It's a bit weird, okay? And so click hold drag, The mouse is down the whole time and Photoshop automatically I've still got the mouse then I move my mouse key down here and So, the big thing for that, I'm gonna drag it into place, you have the mouse down the whole time. Okay, if they went horribly wrong or okay, I'm gonna go to Edit and It just kind of undoes and keep going And I'm gonna practice again with Move tool, click hold, drag in the center. I'm just holding down my mouse key holding Okay, you do get used to it after a while, Okay, so, and what we'll do is, So, click hold, drag the center of it, I'm going to try and line them up nicely. Okay, you'll notice that tries to kind of automatically If yours doesn't align, go to View, the Smart Guides is on. It's probably on by default, Okay, so View &gt; Show &gt; Smart Guides. Great, so that works for all images and look at things later on called That dragging option is the best Okay, the last one is gonna throw us a So the same technique works, right? So I click hold, drag it to my first tab, Okay, so, this is gonna happen to you really big, So you need to kinda get them So this is gonna be our kind Now, we're gonna be learning So for this to work, So there is a magnifying glass over here, and over here you can click it to minus. And now this thing when you So you just toggle between these two here. Now, you can definitely do it that way, a common thing you do in Photoshop, Now, if you hold down the Cmd key on just tap the plus button on your keyboard, Just up on the top of your keyboard there, We're not gonna go through there's just a couple that you What I'd like you to do, is zoom out to Just so you can see the edges, because what we'd like to do So I've got that layer selected. I'm gonna go to Image, I'm gonna go to Transform and So scale is one you use quite often. We're going to cover all of these of fundamental navigation, you're gonna So we'll just cover this quickly now. So Edit &gt; Transform &gt; Scale. You'll see, that's what we zoomed out, Okay, so what you can do is if you you can re-scale it down. The only trouble doing it this way, is that you can see it So I'm gonna go to Edit &gt; Undo. And what I wanna do is, I'm gonna hold down the Shift key. We won't do too many shortcuts, But hold down the Shift key and grab any of the corners before And that just means it will kind of a fundamental Photoshop thing. Okay, so once you get it to sometimes if you're new. You're sitting here like me, do I let go of the Shift first or It's always the mouse, okay? Anytime you're thinking that, Let go of the mouse first, okay, and Now I'm gonna drag mine in kinda close and And what I might do now is just drag it so it's the perfect width to Now, zooming in a little bit, You all do, okay, so on a Mac, its Cmd+, Okay, and zoom into a nice kind of size. And this brings us on to our next kind that we need to learn in Photoshop, okay, So you can see I can't Now, the long painful way is grab And that is fine when you're really new. Okay, and I threw a lot of shortcuts Hold on the Spacebar key, The Spacebar key transforms So Spacebar key and just kind of click, So, the Spacebar + Down, click, Or use these little slider handles, All right, and what I'd like to do is it matches these sizes. So what's the key I hold down to make You remember, it's the Shift key. So holding Shift, drag it up and just get perfection right at this moment. We'll cover that a little Okay, get it close. And when you're finished, I am done to get rid of these like Because you'll find that, you see Cuz it's saying I'm halfway Then, finish it off by hitting Return Okay, and then it just kinda I'm gonna zoom out a little bit, which And what I'm going to do I'm depending on, if you've turned yours Okay, and I can click and I'm gonna drag this one here, Beautiful, all right, my friends, So just to recap, to move things at least one tab from another, Click hold, drag it up to the tab, let go of it. Now, if you end up with problems with it go to Transform and use Scale. And if you want to lock the height and That's right, Shift key, And the other two things we Zooming in, which is Cmd+ or- on a Mac, And once you're in really close okay, hold down the Spacebar key to move around. Click, hold, and drag your mouse. All right friends, where we start looking at Probably the thing I use All right, let's go there now. Hi there, in this video, we're gonna Basically, they get the shadows, the midtones all to look really nice, Let's take this image here, But then we add levels, Right, it's the foundation. It's the thing that I do most in Photoshop Let's go learn how to do All right, so first up, go to open and O4a, okay this one here. It is a photograph by Erol Ahmed, okay? And let's click Open. All right, so Now there's a couple of ways And if you've done Photoshop a long time Let's not use these, So we're going to use the non which is basically there's If you can't find it, let's go to window, going to hover above them after while But can you see here, I've hovered Oop, there is where levels is written. Okay, so now click on this one here. This is definitely for professional designer, I use this one cuz I need a lot of work with my imagery. Now this complicated looking thing And it's not complicated. Well, it's not very hard to use with, And basically what we're looking This is all the see this little dark This is everything that is this is everything that's Okay, you can see here, it's missing a little bit there. Now what you do with labels is black slide up on to the first Okay so click hold and drag up and hold and drag. As I drag it, can I get closer to this kind of peek If I go too far past this like first that's kind of like getting kind of weird. Okay, so you just drag it here basically The same on the other side. So there are whites in here, but they're not super strong to All we do is grab this white little kind And do I want to drag all the way in here? No because it start over they start blurring together. So it's kind of the beginning There it is them. Okay, so often distracting those we'll get you your strong whites and Now the middle slide here the gray Now this will depend on the image I often tech names, okay, Now where does this middle If I drag it all the way to the right, can up and this will really depend on your Okay, so I'm just dragging my back and not my slider over here. Okay, looking at the image and Now I didn't need to move it much at all. And that is correcting I do this, the first thing I do before is just get the levels right. Now to check whether you made this thing You can see here this is So these levels, you can see it's The cool thing about that is Okay, like we did earlier on when you can turn this on and off. Okay, so turn the layer off, And that's what it sounded like and So until we do the levels that you like, there was a bit more in that image I could What I'd like you to do now It's gonna ask you to call it a PSD, and And I'd like you to open up And I'd like you to practice on your own. So it's 04B, okay? And open up this one here and Create adjustments layer, see how you go attacking the two ends and And this will be a cool time kinda what your end result would be. So check us out on social media, Daniel loves Adobe. And on Instagram, So take a screenshot, save a JPG, I'd love to see what your end All right, so let's get on to the next Okay, getting and All right, let's go and do that now. Hi there, in this video we're we're gonna do this, Okay, I've gone a little level the intro, okay, but let's look at kind of some All right, let's get started. All right, first up, And if you did the previous tutorial, which was this one here, 04B, have that And if you didn't, and And I've done the homework for you. Click Open. And basically this is the image we want, you might have done the levels yourself. You might skip to this one here, So levels is the first thing that I do. The next thing is vibrance, okay. So with the layer selected, And it is kind of V here. Okay, it's the last one on the top right, Now vibrance, if you were like you're kind of getting back into it, And saturation and vibrance are, So vibrance is the best Okay, watch this. things just get more amazing. Okay, or the big difference is that some of these colors here, the front here, these yellows, And what vibrance does is when it lifts colors, supporting colors in They go up a little bit, but not as So let's look at this green here. Okay, if I lower that back down to And instead of increasing it leaves some of these more And brings up some of The difference between that and, if I crank up saturation to get these guys end up going Okay, you might like that effect, okay, It's more, this is probably gonna increasing the vibrance. How far do you go? You can max that out, Often, depending on the quality it's only kinda slight adjustments. Just to kinda lift the colors. Plus 40 in this image works for me. Down at the bottom here, remember the just to see, You can see it's just lifting, say, these just to make a more colorful image, Might go up up even a little higher, Okay, bit of saturation and Cool, so that is vibrance. And that's kind of like, leaving some of the saturated ones alone. What I'd like you to do is save it'll save it as a PSD. And I want you to open up This one is here is Jaztina Poon, Okay, and Go to Adjustments panel, And this one here, I set it for homework, Why, because this one's a really clear saturated, but say this, mm, So watch this when it comes up, okay? Vibrance lifts the color of this Whereas saturation, okay, ends up blowing So have a practice with this, even though I'd like to see your final result, okay? So check us out on social media. Twitter is TutsPlusDesign. And on Twitter, I am danlovesadobe. Or if your favorite is Instagram, I'd love to see what you did. where we start looking at At the moment, Okay, let's say we have a color shift and We can start doing some All right, I'll see you in the next video. Hi there, hues which is basically And we are going to look at doing kinda the stalk alone but Cool stuff like that, and Where say this image here, we just wanna make them Can you see before, after, Just to kind of like subtle adjustments adjustments. All right, let's go and All right, let's look at the first step, In your source files open up 06a, Okay, thank you. Thank you, DJ. It's going to open, we are going to go back Okay, so we looked at levels earlier and then we looked at vibrance now we're going we're going to look at this Click on him is the first And start off with I want you to grab Grab a little diamond in drag all slowly to lift Go, okay, it's just the way of changing the hue of Now this works perfectly for this particular one because there's Let's close this now, and jump into we have to use a couple So let's save and close this one and I'm not gonna save mine because, let's go to File Open and Okay, and this one here by Philippe. If I pronounce people's names let's look over this lines selected. Let's go to adjustments and Now, if I grabbed this hue slide and now and I want to change this to say pink, Okay, you notice it's changing So, just by dragging the slider at the top It's quite cool kind of let's say that I wanna kind of Okay, so where's his master, let's go down to rids, okay and now Okay, so that's a way of You might have a product that you've And the cool thing about it is that it's If there's multiple things that are in red But yeah, we'll look at something But for the moment, okay, cuz we've quick easy way to adjust the hue. Not just adjusting the hue, adjust the saturation of that colour Okay, the other thing is let's the colour of the stock. Now what happens especially kind of nature shots is the like, I can't clearly because it's the stock of a rose. But if you look real closely, it's actually a bunch of kind of focus and my brain tells me that it is green because So, what we forgot to say green since you can see, okay, it is because actually So it happens quite a bit you It is not just like the yellows are just They are more of a yellow color. So now I have got yellows and You can see I can adjust it. And often what I will end up doing is the kind of green you just drag it's kind of made a green. I'm going to drag up the saturation. Okay, just as an exaggeration to show you Now the Lightness slide here, I never use. It does a pretty weird thing, we're looking at this down here, covers Okay, so I never use that slide. If you wanna play with the lights and go back to the labels like we Remember that's under adjustments, So you might not be doing this kinda wanna replace the color. Let's look at kinda more thing that So let's save and close this one. I'm not saving it. And let's go to File Open, and in here john-mark-arnold, okay, is, Okay, so this is kinda I don't end up changing like changing completely different color, Most of my work is, I got an image from And I just want to make the greens So to do that it's the exact same but we're gonna be a little So adjustments panel, And what I wanna do is Now, like in the last one, grass in this case is actually If I grab the greens and try to adjust So if I go to yellows though and Okay, you can see there's a lot more What I wanna do is, instead of making I'm just gonna make them a bit more green, Now, on, off, on, off. You can see, yeah, a bit more green. And what I also might do is grab the Now, it says kind of These are the hard ones because it's like, sometimes you wanna just make it scream often it's just more kind of That's the kind of, I guess the nice adjustments Same with the sky. The sky is actually made up of So you have to kind of Check that they're in there by You can see that they So what I want to do is probably Okay, on, off, And in here you might go to the cyans. And I click at the saturation. Definitely in there as well. There's a mixture of both of those colors. And you can decide whether if And make them maybe a little bit There's a little bit of touch that way. And I'm going to crank out Okay, so on, off, on, off. Might be a little bit hard to see in along your monitor, Yeah, it's kind of like tiny adjustments time doing, just little fixes. One thing before we go is, If I click on colorize, it kind of removes the slider here to do like a sepia or Okay, so this can be kind of cool for Find a kind of a really yellow or kind of dust color and Okay, has a color is good for that. Okay, so I'm going to actually what I want to do is I've got an exercise The last one and I am just gonna, anyway, just click open. Okay, and this one here beautiful the way it is but let us say that we the guy the trees in the water So I would like to use us to do this for Okay, so go through, And use your hue and saturation and techniques, raising the blues, just kind of, I guess, Right my friends, that is gonna Okay, we did some big sliding then we got a little bit more and as we got along just kind of tweaking the So, I'll do homework and I will see you in the next video Hi there, and this tutorial we Now we are gonna create It is gonna be a postcard And yeah, All right, let us get started. All right, so and let's say we've got Which is it's got a File Open. In your source files, it's called O7a, we're back, Okay, let's click Open. And instead of trying to resize that's what people tend to do. Let's say you want to do something for grab this and try and It's way easier in Photoshop to go Then drag that in, and use our cool little it fits, But you'll also find in you can just type in your Or switching to centimeters or millimeters depending on which What we're gonna do is, there's some default templates in here. Okay, you can see this US, click on this little View All Presets. And what I'm looking for is one in Okay, it's in the Art &amp; Illustration and So now that's selected, it's given it the right height and width. Know in different parts of the world we're gonna use the US. What we're gonna do is we're Just for this one, Just make sure yours looks like mine in we'll discuss that later on. Let's click Create. Now let's go and save this thing. And what you'll notice is that Photoshop, it's one of the kind of quick. So Photoshop is, I'm not gonna save it. So if I grab the text tool and Allow me to save or And I'm gonna give it a name. I'm gonna put it into my Source Files. And I'm gonna call this one, Let's click Save. Now we're gonna use our fancy trick We're gonna go to our image of flowers. We're gonna grab our move tool. We're gonna click hold drag, Keep holding the mouse down, All right, so it's the wrong size. Okay, I kind of did that on purpose so And what we're gonna have to do is So make sure our layer here is selected. It's got the little icon, or Let's zoom out, That's right command minus on We're gonna zoom out so Let's go to Edit, let's get on to Okay, and he's actually, reasonably the So let's go to Edit, Transform, And the same kind of thing, grabbing Now remember when we did it would kind of resize holding shift in this case when Just kind of locks it Okay, so it's just nice little steps. So I'm gonna rotate mine around, Now you go back to Scale, hit that Remember holding Shift, drag down, and You can drag this into it afterwards by just drag the center. Don't drag the little dot in the center, It's just the center of rotation just drag anywhere else in here, Okay, I'm not too worried too much Okay, I just want to get it Now remember, nothing works. Why is it not working? We've got a press Enter on your keyboard That's what I wanted to do. All right, so So down here is your text tool. Now actually the zoom in a little bit. Remember the shortcut is command Grab the Type tool, And what you can do is, we're gonna learn And the first way is clicking once, okay? And you can type in, and I'm just mashing away the keyboard Now if your font is a whole lot bigger, or What you might do is select it all, You can do it both places, the top or over here on the right down to So that's one way of adding type. When you're finished, okay, and that kind of commits that change. And I wanna show you That's good for headings. So but if you've got some like say grab the Type Tool. And before you start typing, And is just a click hold and Whereas before we just clicked once, This one we clicked held the mouse down, What this is cool for is, You can see it kind of breaks Okay, it's a good way If yours is like mine, there's these massive big gaps Okay, I'm going to select and just kind of like And then over here on the line spacing, I'm gonna sit back to order, go. So let's look at styling So those are the two ways of doing it. Clicking once and the other one depending on what you need. But to finish this, So what I'm gonna do is, I've got these And so this first layer here, actually, If you grab the type tool, I'm gonna select all the text, I'm gonna type in some proper text now. So yeah, we're gonna cover a few more We're doing a little bit of design work. Okay, so Mother's Day Sale, I'm going to make it white. Now you can see there's, I've got the text selected, And in terms of choosing a color, you Okay, let's say you wanted pink, You can see here's my text and that color. You might have to move this out of What I want is white, and to get white is to grab this little And just click hold, and And drag it kind of like wing to this it gets all jammed up in the corner, I'm using Gehrman for my main one just because it's a font And so What am I do is after day put a return in, And if the spacing between we're gonna have to adjust it. The other thing we might have to do is the one at the back. So let's grab this lamp, okay? Which is the top one there. We go by move tool, and I'm gonna say, way down here. Back to Mother's Day, and Awesome, don't worry if you you against the background with your phone. We're gonna add drop shadows, and Let's look at a couple Let's grab the title. It's click once, okay, because I just I'm just going to put in, fonts little bit big, so Let's just make it a bit smaller, okay? And we live different or And so I'm in Europe at the moment, and it's different from where I'm I get the second Monday, it's not the same in Ireland here, Sorry mom, the reason I'm doing this And I wanna make it capitals. I wanna change the font first. I'm gonna pick probably You can pick any font you like. I like Museo at the moment, okay, buy from type kit. We're not gonna cover how to install I'm gonna pick, yeah. Okay, so pick any font, and So over here, you've only got You've got the fonts, Basically, whether it's light or You got this Advanced button, Click on it, and it gives you kind of, I know some of the stuff that I'm And the one that I want is this third one, That's what I wanna do. I wanna drag the font down. Now another little tip for fonts, Like what if you want 20 you can just that'll force it to be. Or the trick that I use quite a lot is or this one down here, close them back in. See this little icon here, you click and I'm just clicking, holding, If you got really so But I'm dragging mine I find this this Great, I've got mine down to 12 points, My move tool, and I click it, grab my Mother's Day layer, And this last layer down here, okay, this crazy layer gonna Now I don't have specific I'm gonna show you a little I'm gonna grab the type tool, I'm gonna slick all these texts, What we're gonna do is put in something Now it's just a really common way I know that, let's say that I'm not the copywriter. And it's coming from the client, So I just wanna put some text in. So .type, come down to Paste, lorem ipsum. Now it's just Latin words that just And it allows you to design without there fake words. And then what I'm going to do is [LAUGH] okay? So I'm deleting lots of mine. And just I've got a little I'm gonna put in a couple of routines. Now I put it, florist, my florist. This is totally made up brand, It's probably a website, not mine. So I'm gonna sync all the text, and now you might wanna skip Now looking white. Okay, what font am I gonna use and Museo, like Musiah rounded, Makes my move tool, and that's going to be, yeah, The big thing to know you get a tight box that goes on forever. And if you click and drag, or a kind of a break at the end. A good tip is to select on the layer, now I don't think advanced Actually, this good usable stuff in there. And you also know if you toggle this so It switches between your advanced So if you're looking for just keep clicking on this mesh away All right, my friends, get into the next video where Hi there. In this video we are going to do things photographer's name to flow along the edge And down the bottom here we are gonna make the text to flow along a circle. And then we are gonna make some all learning cool skills All right, so to get started, Let's go to File, Open, and in your source files, okay, Now, if you are following along this you can just use the file that rather than opening up this one. Okay, but if not, open up this file. And what I'm going to have to do, what you might have noticed is I just couldn't handle Garamond anymore. So I picked some fonts. The trouble is, So what I'm going to have to do is I don't when you're trying to open the document So what I'm going to have to do is click and [SOUND] we're going to get a layer and Now your file is going to open, the text is not editable. Sorry about that, cool. So let's start with the kinda that identifies the photographer. Okay, and we'll get, Okay, that's the kinda term for it. Now, what we need to do is And we're going to do two versions, we'll do that plus the little And we're going to start with, if you find So click hold, hold on the pen tool. Okay, and these extra options pop out. We're gonna use the free form pen tool. If you're already master of the pen tool, Okay, the freeform pen tool's for people So nice quick, easy version. So let's grab freeform pen tool. There's kind of two things Along the top here, Let's be on path, okay. And on the top here, there's a cog, curve fit, bump it up a little bit, okay? It goes, I think maximum is ten, All it does is when you draw, it's gonna So if you're drawing with a mouse and the line's not very nice, just go into Cool, so what I'm going to do is I It's best to start where If I start up here and I want my text to come up this way, So I'm gonna undo, step backwards. So I'm gonna down here. And I'm gonna try and up and over. It's a really hard movement to I've practiced a couple Okay, so that was okay. And you'll notice that it's That's to do with the settings in the cog. So that's an okay start for me. Okay if you get it wrong, hit it, Once you've got your path, though, the interesting things about they're one of the few things that They end up in this paths panel. Don't go in there, it's messy and scary. But for this technique, So all we need to do now to get the text there's no extra settings. You just gotta watch this icon change. You can see by default it's this kind of that drawing, that thing there, but And when it changes, look, ooh, Bad, good, bad, good, And wherever you start clicking So I'm gonna start somewhere down here, You'll notice my cursor is flashing. Now if the last thing you did in It was up to like 200. It's going to be this So before you start typing, I'm gonna go real small on mine. It's gonna be about 6 pt. Pick any font you like. I'm using Museo Sans Rounded. Okay, but you can use anything you like, Erol Ahmed, okay? And yeah, that's type on a path. If you can draw it and you can use the type tool, There's a couple of things is you can select all the text like Okay font and size and And the other thing you might want to So I'm going to zoom in, Okay, and Can't use my space bar shortcut I just learned if you hold down space Cool, so we've got this, ending point, There is this little cross icon, that's To adjust where it starts on this line and you have to use this tool here. It's just underneath, okay? It's the path selection tool. Now, again, you can hold down this tool. If yours is stuck on the white area, hold it down and Cool, and if you click hold you Drag it back. if you're finding like, man, It's a little bit tough to do. And the ending point, I don't really you can see If it's too small, it doesn't just kind of drops them off. So if you are finding everything's that little circle, okay, and Another thing you can do is click hold and You can see that little icon, see the little arrow there? If you click hold and drag it, okay, you it's kinda flipped underneath. I'm gonna go to Edit &gt; Undo, Okay, I'm going to though go get And the other thing is, Okay, now I can kind of grab just kind of drag them along, sometimes paths it's easier just to go to things to Rotate just say you just need to kind Hit Return, okay, and Don't just click anywhere on If you want to physically move this now, go back to your Move tool, okay, What I might do, it's quite bright. I'm going to lower the, not lower So I'm clicking on the color of my type, And I'm just going to lower it down off white. We're gonna look at drop shadows I wish I could add drop shadows. Why aren't we doing drop shadows? It's in a later tutorial. We'll do that real soon. Trying to segment everything out here, All right, the next thing we'll do okay, that we saw at the beginning. So I'm gonna use a little shortcut We can just hold Cmd+-, and it works. But if you hold Cmdon a Mac, or It's the one along the top, So not o, not o then, Click on that, and it just kind of puts it little shortcut. All right, so Instead of using the freeform we're gonna use the Ellipse tool. So if you click and hold down, you probably got the rectangle Click, hold the mouse down for a while, And the same thing with this, it's better to draw with a path, okay? Remember the path is this kind of like hidden invisible line that So, ellipse, path, I want mine in the bottom right here, Now if I draw out a circle, okay, I can If I want it to be a perfect width, who can guess what we need Have a guess, you might be wrong, It's the Shift key, okay. That Shift key constraints the height and We did it when we transformed early, down, we hold down the Shift key. Okay, get it to a right sorta size and Let go of my mouse first and I've got a kind of circle, Just like before, okay, we've got we're looking for the right icon. This is a little bit more important then sneakily, there's another one. Okay, this is a third group. So you might wanna do this on purpose, But if I use this icon where if I click once, it's going to turn So I'm typing and putting in a few That is a technique. We're not doing it in this course. So we're gonna go Edit &gt; Undo typing. Okay, actually, I'm gonna go what I want typing, okay, I'm gonna hit the Escape Just kind of like Escape key is like, let's get out of there button. Okay, and let's go to Edit &gt; Cool, so we've got our path, the right icon bad, bad, good, okay. And try and I want mine to start in the middle there. Kind of, all right, and I'm typing in all caps so FRESHNESS, I'm totally gonna pause this and [LAUGH] Okay, what you'll Okay, and, man, And what I'm gonna do is I could rotate my cursor's still flashing and It can be anywhere. I'm just gonna go and So that's gonna kinda try and center it. The problem is it kind That's okay. So instead of trying to play around little cross and then this little circle, They're really a bit of a pain. So what I'm going to do is I'm just Edit &gt; Transform path and I'm gonna go Okay, so I'm going to rotate it around so I hit Return, and These little targets are painful. All right, again, the font size is I'm going to go down to five We'd have print this out and double check It's always a interesting thing need to print, always print it off. So, budget one in your office just to Probably not, but heigh-ho, So I want to leave it there and go on to people will inevitably go, hey, And the thing about it is that you So what you do is, you have two of them, and flip it over. Doesn't make sense? Probably not. Let's learn by doing. So what I'm going to do is right And I'm gonna say duplicate layer, What was it called, next day. It doesn't really matter what you call it. I never name my layers, okay. You should though. Okay, I'll just call it next day. But you see it hasn't changed the text. What's happened is, if I grab my move tool, there's just two Now, this is a bit of a hack which would be perfect for doing this there's tutorials on how to do that. But Photoshop does it okay, So, I've got two of them now. I want to flip it upside down, so And, like before, okay, remember what I can kind of drag this so Where are you? I'm not using the text took, I'll leave that in there because Grab the Direct Selection Tool over here, The black arrow and then click hold and Cool, and it's on the wrong way. So I'm gonna use my Edit &gt; Transform Path Now, I'm flipping this around. You might have seen before that mine into these nice little degrees. You can manually do it at the top here. You can see those are degrees, okay? But if you hold Shift while it just kind of locks it And that's going to work for me. Hit return, Return, eventually you'll get it. Okay, so what I want to do is I want it to my move tool and I drag him up, he's on the inside of the line now. So this is where Illustrator kind of flip it to What I mean by that is, you can see where I want him to kinda be And I can't figure out a way I don't think you can. So if you can, leave me a comment, Okay, I don't think you can. So what we can do is just make So the same part, Edit &gt; Transform path. Let's go to scale. Okay, I want to make it bigger, but I wanna hold down Shift to get it Okay, and then it's just kind of working Try not to click on the line. Okay. Little bit of transforming, And this one down here is not gonna This one's going to be next day delivery. Now look. Cool, I'm gonna rotate You notice I'm not going out Okay, if I want to rotate, Okay, there are some shortcuts. Free Transform is the cool shortcut a bit of rotation all at once. So if you are like I'm getting really you'll notice that the really like undo is Cmd+Z on a Mac or So if you are doing something over and is there a little shortcut and All right, so we've got the top one and the bottom one, they're just things on Okay, but Next thing I wanna do is grab my Type I'm gonna be centered. I'm gonna type 100%. I'm gonna pick a font and a size. Bit big, pick a bold one. So you go off, pick a font and a size. I'm gonna stick mine in the middle here. And we're gonna use one So with it selected here, Okay, well it's selected, sorry, just had it's kinda this light gray. Make sure you're in your type tool and Okay, this little icon here Okay and watch this. Let's get down here. So Style none, let's go to arc and Lower arc, arch. I'm just reading stuff out now, And the best one of all, [LAUGH] Okay, so They've all got options you can make, right, decide which say There's lots of kind of And if you do find you've they're not really working anymore A little trick is hold down the Alt You see the cancel, so So I'm on my Mac, so I'm holding down everything goes back to normal. And what I want is Bulge, there you are. Cool, now I'm just gonna find a thing That looks good. [LAUGH] it doesn't, but that's okay, Let's click OK. All right, so that is the end of your homework. Okay, I would like you to take your new and make a badge for It's a real association. It's this one here. If you go to your exercise files or it's OAB called badge exercise. There's the text, okay? So it's the Association for Check out their website, okay, and similar to what we did Okay, doesn't have to Use a bit of creativeness in there, okay? And yeah, I'd love to see So pick fonts, colors, and I'd love to see either a JPEG or And either post it in the forum as send it to us on social media. So for Envato Tuts Plus, they are Tuts Plus design on Twitter, But for Instagram, find me at bring I'd love to see what you do or give me let's just share what everyone's doing, &gt;&gt; All right, friends, Let's get into the next one where Finally, you're like, man, let's add some drop shadows to this text It's time to do that next in See you there. All right, in this video we're working on where the text is a little ready, drop shadows. And we're gonna look at bevel and [LAUGH] We're going to hammer We're going to look at some of the other Plus, kind of lifting text with just All right, lots of effects to learn Okay, so first up, if you are continuing you can just work on your file. If you are not, go and And we're going to add, first up, a drop So just make sure in you have the layer that you want to change And down the bottom here there's Okay, and here are all the things we're Okay, so we'll start with drop shadow, Now mine, you can see it's edit a drop To move it, see this kind of light drag it to get it to a point where And the background here and Now it'll remember the last thing you did, yours is going to look So let's look at the basics. Okay, so let's look at the distance first. Crank it right up, right up, You can see the distance Then this angle here becomes You can see I'm just dragging it's just kind of the way Okay, so it's up to you what you Let's look at these other kind of like, Spread, spread you're not It depends on whether that kind of kind of does a weird Don't use spread. The main one is size, Okay, so you can see I'm And you can see it's got, you can still kinda see the text. But if I get quite high, Now if you're like, is it working? Is it better? Turn this preview on and off, Okay, so What I like to do is I like So I'm putting 90 degrees, and and I like the size quite low. So it will depend on your image and text. Okay, so I do like about maybe 5 by 0 by You can see this, I like that kind of drop shadow. You don't have to like it. Okay, but yeah, have a play around with Let's look at doing one more and So if we click OK, we're done. Let's say I want to edit it again because You double click on this word, So you can go and make amends. I'm gonna click OK. So let's do it to the SAVE THE DATE actually, let's do it to the photo, this So let's select the layer. Let's go down to the FX, And let's say we want to do Because it's smaller text and I can still use my shortcut to zoom in, He's my Space bar key to drag it around. So`, what I wanna do is I wanna do and distance don't work for this thing, And the angle is the big, It's this thing called Global Light. So, what ends up happening, if you use the change this one for this text, Okay, so So if I want to adjust this one Let's look at what I mean. If I rotate it around here because it's on an angle, I'm gonna switch around Okay, so the trouble with is, So they're all at 90, then I'm gonna I'm going to crank out the opacity. That's one thing I didn't mention Okay, how much you can see of it, This one here 5 by 5 doesn't really work, to kind of get it to come out. Put the opacity down a little bit, it's not affecting the angle here. Cool, let's click OK. Let's look at another way of kind We'll use bevel and emboss. Now bevel and It's not gonna work with any of So I'm gonna click on this one, 800%, make Down here let's go to bevel and I'm gonna move it out of the way, Okay, there we go, that'll work, cool. So these are the defaults. Okay, and And you can kind of look at this as a kind happening and down here, First of all, the style, emboss does the inner part, okay. Pillow emboss kind of looks Outer bevel, just the outsides, There's different techniques for kind of Okay, I don't like bevels much at all. [LAUGH] But people do, so we'll show them. Okay, so what am I gonna use, And let's have a quick little look, just look at the edge here, I kind of like, Depth is how like basically it's okay, how extreme it looks. And I feel like it should be a bank a lawyer's building, you need to use Trojan, the font, and And again Size and Soften, they're gonna kind of make sense You can kind of see it says here how much, If it's really thin, In this case can't see much of a change Okay, so and you guys have got kind of Okay, soften, I'm not sure why you anyway, there's more and In this essentials course, we're not going Just play around with it, experiment When you're finish click OK. And one of the things I wanna I'm gonna combine two One is one of the other effects, so I want to change the color of it as well. So the effect is called Color Overlay, Okay, you can do it by double clicking to open it back up again. And you can see on the top here, here are all the other options I had Okay, so Bevel and Emboss, And watch this, Its kind of made it a different color. But there's a bit of a gotcha. What ends up happening is I've you can see over here it's Look, cuz I can turn lots of these on. Okay, I need to actually click to bring up the options for it. So you might be ticking this on and at least say. Let's do it again, tick that on, making adjustments but nothing's changing. Okay, it's because you need So I'm going to turn all these Color Overlay, I'm gonna click on it and Yours is probably set to red, by default, Like when we're picking font colors, you can just drag this Hue slider Okay, and pick a color. [LAUGH] Doesn't have to be that bad, I'm not sure what color I'm going for So drag the Hue slider up. Now click in here for then just keep an eye out here All right, if you're looking for branded here or the CMYK colors, if you have it. Well maybe the hexadecimal Let's click OK. So we've got two things applying now. Let's click OK. So those are a couple of FX, and we've used those mainly to kind of What I'm going to show you is a technique it's just, it does the same type of thing. It's just using a big old rectangle. So you saw it at the beginning okay, So if you grab the Rectangle tool, the only trouble with what we've got remember we were using the Ellipse And as soon as we went we changed it from shape to path Cuz we don't want a path, Okay, so the path is just kind of like an actual thing on the page. So Rectangle tool, shape, fill color, click on it, I'm just picking black. If you want to get a bit more detailed, you can click on this option get you back I'm just gonna use black, and And for the stroke, I'm going to have no that says, I don't want any color, please. Click off. What am I going to do? I'm going to draw a rectangle that kind of goes in here. Cool, I'm going to move it. Back to my Move tool, And the trouble is, Yours might be different, depending And so like before, remember in our layers drag, drag rectangle down, I'm just dragging it just All right, and what I'm gonna do is now, Move tool, I'm gonna try and What you might find is, you might find Okay, and we're at a point now where, this might be an option for you. I prefer to have the Move tool, Okay, Auto-Select on just watch the last panel over here, Jumps to that, which is kinda cool, right. I find especially with a really thin type and I just make sure I'm very consistent So that's what I'm gonna do for I'm gonna say beyond this layer, And it doesn't really it's gonna move that particular layer. It's not gonna automatically do it, cool. So I'm going to do that. I'm going to grab my Rectangle tool, and Cool, and So with the rectangle layer selected, let's lower the opacity of this just [SOUND] Yep, so that's just another You see it quite a bit, That's okay, you might love the Chisel, All right, next thing we'll look at, You can experiment with them all. We'll look at putting Let's do it to the Mother text. So Mother's Day Sale. Okay, double click, cuz we're gonna add double click. And we're gonna add a stroke Remember turn the tick back on, make Okay, and you'll see I've got Let's zoom in a little bit There's kind of two things to work with. One is I'll change the color first of all, I'm gonna go to that kind of like And let's crank the size up, okay, Okay, all we wanna do is, which is doing weird stuff to my type. You might like it. I'm gonna go to the outside, so it's like okay then you can do this kind of thing. Now we're doing it with type it can Okay, that rectangle can have an image that you've masked out Yeah, it's up to you. All right, let's do one more before we go, into some slightly more, not advanced but So I'm going to zoom all the way out, control zero, And we're gonna work on Let's be a bit more proper about it Return, actually have to double click on type over the top. And we're gonna do a gradient overlay. Why, because it's super in fashion now. If you're watching this, and it's not gonna be super fashionable. But at the moment we love a bit So let's have a look. Okay with this layer selected, let's go to Gradient Overlay. Okay, and depending on if going to look pretty close to mine, So what we're going to do is We're going to pick a nice gradient, then we're gonna go and look at how Now, deciding on nice colors for let's have a little look. I just Googled the Envato Elements, okay. And there's just lots of good ideas for Just type in gradients in the search and This particular gradient background that you can get ideas from. So once you've got an idea for And you drop down this little Gradient Click on that, and My goodness, there are some bad ones. [LAUGH] Okay, these have been in here Let's click on just this kind it's a good easy one to start with. Now click it back in. Now to adjust the actual color, click And this big ugly thing opens up and NOw you're just using these bottom Don't use the top ones. So the bottom ones here, you can use your Hue slider to And then pick a color. I'm gonna pick a color that I saw, I figured that out earlier on Okay, click OK. So that's the beginning of it. Double click this last one and do the end. And I figured out the color that I wanted, I just copied and pasted it from when Let's click OK, and let's click OK again. Now gradient overlay is kind of cool. Okay, the thing is it's you saw at the beginning that I had And this has something to do with Now, blending modes are super awesome and Normal does exactly what Okay, but if you ever play around with the background a lot better. Okay, so it's a good dissolve, Darken, so it's kinda cool what it's doing, right. Always in the way, Okay, that'll do. And you've just gotta keep going through Color Burn, Linear Burn, I liked Overlay, kind of a cool one. And so is Soft Light, but I really liked Why can't I find you? You can see it, there it is, [LAUGH] Okay, it's It's a bit strong. Okay, I know we're kind of, I guess, like I'm liking this kind of thing. What you might do though, is lower the opacity a little bit just to So maybe something like that. Then play around with the angle of How do I want it? [LAUGH] I'm just gonna drag it You get the idea, right. So that's my Gradient Overlay, okay. We've used a linear one, which is just like a circle in But I'm gonna use linear. And yeah, that's gonna be it for Okay, there's a few other layer styles And it is time for your homework. Okay, so what I'd like you to do is, you've used the image What I'd like you to do is either go find a new image. Or if you don't have access to that, Find your own gradient, and I'd love to see what you what kind You can use the text that adjust it maybe for your own personal And I'd like to see what You're allowed to just show and tell, as well, and I will be kind and You're allowed to use I promise not to comment on them. Yeah, so do that and Remember, Twitter, And on my Twitter as @danlovesadobe, Tag us in it, and yeah, we'll comment and All right, let's get into the next videos, resizing images. Not as exciting as gradients but All right, let's go do that. Hi there. we're gonna learn some basic cropping. But we're also gonna do some magic We want it to be landscape. And you can see here, there's some edges here They've never existed in the world. But ready, steady we magic All right, so let's go and All right, to get started we're going Okay, a nice little trick just to add to I'm just using my source So I'm nothing to do with Photoshop. I can see Photoshop though. The look was if I click hold and drag the middle here, hey, they all open, That's a nice easy way to get started. Let's start with this first one tin A, Now the Crop Tool is about exactly the fifth tool down, grab it. Okay, and the basic use of the Crop Tool, just make sure the top here you're on otherwise, if you've played with So just make sure you're on that option, you can grab any of the corners and When you're ready, hit Return. And that is copying. Okay, I'm go to either undo and So back to the Crop Tool. Here it's kinds of dots on the outside and if I hover here, I can resize it. But if I hover just outside, can you see it goes from this like little I can click hold and drag. It's really strange if you're like, It is really, really weird. [LAUGH] Photoshop have decided And it's just a nice way can It's actually perfect in this photograph. Okay, thank you, Annie. But you might want to adjust this one, So I'm rotating around, hit return, You're less likely to be making it it's straight, but Now the next thing to do is let's say I always find we got to file new, then drag it into it. We did that in an earlier video text in this course go jump and If you are interested in But a different way is to Okay, so up the top here Let's say I want kind of really So five inches by eight. I click on it. And it gives me a little we're gonna have to trim off The cool thing about that I know it's perfectly gonna fit it's going into a frame, okay, If you need a different ratio, Okay, and if you need to flip it around, click on this little option here it If you needed to be a physical size, by 300 millimeters, you can go to this Okay, and you can say I'd like you to You should probably use millimeters but it's giving me that particular ratio Okay, to get out of this you gotta hit Escape twice on your Can we get back out of there? We can also hit clear because you don't crop anything for it's gonna remember those and It's gonna be trying to do stuff, you're The next thing we'll do will be our Okay, I love this feature. So what we're gonna do is we're going to, Okay, I'd like it to be like to flip the trouble with it like this is that So I'm going to click hold and drag my image to kind of get It's not. And so I'll let go. Now, I can drag these edges and it's not gonna kind of bend any way Okay, so I'm going to get it now I'm gonna drag, try not to drag this Okay I'm gonna get to like here, The only trouble with this kind of crop is around, so I need to landscape this Unless super magic content aware. Okay, turn that on, it's a little the magic, I'm gonna click the plus Give it a sec, get ready, Cool okay, it's kind of done a little Okay, but it's made it up new table, It's pretty impressive. It doesn't work on all We'll look at a couple of other examples this kind of like, I don't know it's got a has done a great job this side not so Let's look at another example. So this is 10b. Now the only trouble with our Crop Tool at thing, it remembers remember? Let's go back to with heightened rotation, I say with heightened rotation. With height and resolution I'm I don't want this kind of like What I want is let's say I'm doing it's like I'm doing a banner for Facebook. Okay, that kind of big banner right I do a lot of HTML banner ads and maybe a double page spread Something like this. I chose this example bcuz it's Content Aware is tacked on, click the plus says really nice way of Cool. This one did a perfect job cuz what you'll find is nature's pretty good. Cuz I can kind of mix it around and do it way, where it becomes quite troublesome Let's have a look at this Okay and let's do the same thing. I'm going to grab my Crop Tool make sure So, I've got just want a bigger option. Okay, nice little square. Hit Enter on my keyboard and And it's gotta do okay job. Already, I've already practiced. But it's gonna be a few things obvious, So, hey we've got two lemons. That's a bit weird. I've got two of these. Okay, and the lines don't quite line up. This one's done. Okay, that bit looks good. Okay, so there are just times where It's done an okay job but Later on the course will do a bit more to fix it up. Once you've got to this stage just to kind it's I guess I want to show you with and this one here that then just show you an example All right, so that is cropping we did Content Aware Fill you might want to turn just so that we're not trying to do it All right, my friends, What are we doing in the next video? We're talking about resizing and Hi there, it's real me, I'm back again for this video because we're And resolution can be I find it a little easier when I So, what we'll do is we'll go through forth to the computer to explain it. All right, so let's get started. So, let's get started, is a live in A resolution from And these ones from Jonathan Francisca, And what we're gonna look at is kinda of, we talk about high and low resolution, So this first one A, this one here is low quality, It'll open up in your just hit Command + on a Mac or You can see, we've all seen examples of all a bit pixelated and Yeah. resolution or density of pixels This bigger version here though, the cool thing about it is the human the difference between lots of little So what I mean, if I zoom in okay, it's actually just made up of, But far enough away, So they referred to often in, There is 72 dots per inch And that's Just kinda of let's say that most images that are born, Through a digital camera and or they're gonna come at So let's check that. Let's go to image and let's go to this one is indeed 72 dots per inch. Okay, we also use pixels per inch, depends PPI or DPI, people refer to them It doesn't matter they're So this thing is 72 dots per inch, You can see it is 72 inches across. So, let's say I've been asked we're gonna the specifications have said we would PPI, K and So what we do here is, let's say we've the printer or send it to newspaper, And what we're gonna do is we're gonna When we're resizing original artwork and let's turn the resolution to And what you would have noticed is that, that went from like a really big 72 Okay, and we'll cut to some real life footage All right, so here I'm waving time. And so, what ends up happening, right? Is you've got this document, it's 72 dots right, it's really really big. Okay, so but the requirement is 300, okay? So what that means is, my 72 dots in Can the 72 little squeeze in there? Okay, but the requirements I need So what you do is you end up 300 in that same square instead of 72. And what it does is it says, well, there's keep grabbing it and So instead of 72, I'm gonna grab some them, come in here guys and they pull Gets up to 200 and they pull them all in until is 300 of And the cool thing about it is that, now in it and it looks really good for print. And that's what print needs, our human that it's 300 dots in an inch. Anything less and it starts, you starts going like you start So and anything more we don't need, our dots in that little inch, So, that's why we need it. And what the trade off is of though, those dots that were hanging out here and The physical size of the whole document So we had to kinda of cram more in but the drawback is their And that's I guess is just one of the with print and Just know that whatever image you've got, I know it's not perfectly a third, Okay, so, and let's say I need it to be 300 DPI. Okay, so that job is finished, We got it, it's a bit smaller. It's, I think it's 17 inches across now, send it to them that's as big But let's say there's a chance where or it needs to be 300 and You've just done a little calculation and can only be 17 and you're like. What you can do is, we're gonna check it again in a second That's the thing where you tick that and Okay, and Photoshop will do its best, Okay, so it pulled in old ones well, I still need some more. So, I'm just going like, start duplicating and then making more. And, it's totally fine when you a little extra half an inch, no problem, But if you say I need it to be, I need to gonna try it's best, is probably gonna Okay, but it's gonna look bad. It's gonna have a lot yucky goop but Photoshop is good but not that good, turn re-sample on, But, if you're trying and do too much, All right, let's jump back in and Okay, so let's say needs to be 18 inches, You can turn this on and So, I'm gonna force it to be 18, okay. And, what's gonna happen is Photoshop is new pixels. They didn't exist before, And, with a small change like this, okay. We went from 17 to 18, It's when you're trying to do it needs to be 22. Okay, you're gonna actually start to see, this is kinda of like goop that appears, So, is a re-sampling goop and yeah, make up more pixels but it can't go So, that's kinda of like small changes, big changes, people, are. That's probably one of the main used you work on a Photoshop and You might be sending yourself into Okay, and So, change in here, then go and you might turn re-sample on All right, let's look at one of understand resolution. Jump back to Dan's hide. &gt;&gt; All right, one other common use for using Photoshop to resize images is going And what that means is, your image can be a maximum And it might be going to say Facebook or you just need to resize your image because You shot it on your disc allow, that's really, really big. You can get to a more appropriate size for So, let's go and do that now and Okay, so we need to get that right size. So let's go into image and resize. And, what we're gonna do is it They might not mention that, they just assume that if it's going up of standard website size, and this is We made it bigger and the last thing, Okay, so with re-sample on, I'm gonna it needs to be 1600. Okay, I can't remember what I said. [LAUGH]. The talking head version. Let's say it was 1600. Okay, and I've kept the link locked there And now I know it's the perfect size. It's the 1600 across the biggest that I'm gonna click OK. Okay, it's gonna be a lot smaller, that's what the website wanted. So that's what I've given them. Now, I'm gonna go into a File, Save, upload it to the website. Okay, so those are two hopefully It can be a little bit of And, but I hope it gives you some of the typical uses, getting them ready for All right, that is the end of Let's get into something a little learning things like masks and selections. All right, let's go do it now. Hi there, in this video, we are going to We're gonna create an Instagram We're gonna use the rectangle marquee And then the ellipse marquee tool, like a big circle, All right, let's go and All right, to get started, over here I'm gonna And then go and change it loads, okay? So in here I'm gonna switch it to pixels, got a square format, right, and it's 600 Now that's when this I always make it double cuz Instagram seem to suck in bigger size But I guess when they decide we're we want them to have So we're gonna go 1200 pixels by 1200 and Now we're gonna open up two images, in your source files they are called, So these marquee ones, thank you, So we're gonna start with this image here, grab the rectangle marquee tool, okay? Click and hold down and make sure This is a nice simple one, and you can And then we're gonna move Now to get it to be a perfect square, go to Deselect. It kind of gets rid of that selection. And who can guess what key That's right, it's Shift. So hold Shift down and It gives me like a perfect square. It's gonna work for my Instagram. Okay, got it kind of cropped how I want. If it's not quite right, you can just move it around, okay, And then all I'm gonna do And we're gonna use the shortcut Remember the fun Tab game, I won't come find you, but Click and drag, drag, drag, drag, drag, then, the mouse down the whole time and So what we're gonna do now we're gonna go to Edit &gt; Transform &gt; And I'm gonna grab the edge and I want It'll scale down, we're gonna hold Shift, roughly there, where I want, And then I can kinda drag the middle, this little target, We don't need to mess with that, kinda get it in the middle, okay? When you're ready, hit Return or Enter on your keyboard, So that's the rectangle marquee tool. Drag things in a big rectangle or square by holding Shift, and Let's go to 12B and just look at Elliptical marquee tool, it's gonna do exactly what you I can draw out an ellipse, and And if I hold down Shift, I'm just gonna kinda crop it there, okay? And we're gonna put our space So again, move tool, drag, Holding down the mouse key the whole Edit &gt;Transform &gt; Scale. Grab the corners, hold Shift, drag keep dragging it down until it's kind of The edges are a bit crisp, and more features as we go along. This is, I guess, just a quick and Now if you're finding it hard to I quite often just use my The arrows, so I'm just tapping up a little bit, I zoom in, okay, We'll look at doing a bit more of But stepping around when I'm ready, Looking cool, straight to Instagram. Okay, so The circle one, the ellipse one, quick and easy. What I'd like you to do, though, is I'd Find your own coffee cup or plate or bowl, find your own image in the inside, okay? One thing you might find is I just circle, you might be on So you might do, with this layer here scale it, and you might have to fit in with maybe, I'm not going to do this, so And because you've got probably got you to do is, you don't have to pick, and I come into elements here and I spelt it like Arial the font But some of these images, you can find some stuff that you can work straight down from the top and Once you've got it, okay, find your own and see if you can And then with your social media, Instagram So I am @bringyourownlaptop, You can also edit to that forum there in Envato. You can look in the forums and Adobe Photoshop for beginners, group where you can share If for some reason you don't have access okay, and find some images in there. All right, friends let's get into the next but it's a cheap trick, not a cheap trick, Let's look at how to do Hi there, in this video, we are going clip it inside a letter like this. Boom, quick, super easy, all still It's really cool, All right, to get started, open up the one called Get started, grab the type tool, Okay, now, mine's already a ginormous, big serif letter because I And [LAUGH] in my font size, you can Weirdly, the font sizes only go to 72, so You can either type in that 900, just kind of click and So clicking and holding my mouse and you can see it goes up way past 72, until And I've decided about 900 something. I go to my move tool, it doesn't matter what color because you saw at the beginning, Now the way this works is mainly The image has to be on top of the D, feels Now if I drag the background above the D, Okay, so Okay, we've run into this problem before, So just double-click it, drag it just above, and To make the magic happen, make sure then go up to Layer, and go to this one Ready, steady, cool, super easy, That's why it's in this section, and it works really good with these So some of the things, so Now let's look at a couple of I've got roses selected, so if I go you can see it moves Which is really cool cuz it means I And I can also use the Edit &gt; Transform this to how I want it to be, So same for the D layer, okay, if I it's independent. There's gonna be lots of times So what you can do is hold Shift down on your keyboard, They're both light gray now, okay, I can both transform Okay, just have them both selected. Now I'm gonna go and add the white You don't have to, But if you wanna hang around, Why don't we have a white background now, It's kind of invisible, and Photoshop uses this checkerboard kind of effect to There's nothing there, but I want a solid So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna click on this little icon here. If you hover above it long enough, Click on him, and instead of Layer 1, call it white background. And the easiest way to fill it go up to here to Edit, And from this drop down, yours is I've set mine to white. Click OK, and we have a white background, But over here, remember, the white background's too high. Click, hold, and drag it, okay, Next thing I want to do is So I'm gonna click on the D layer, and I'm gonna go to Drop Shadow, and probably for ten minutes, trying to figure One thing you might have to do is, the size, because it remembers We were doing drop shadows Okay, so first thing to do is just Or not the size, sorry, the distance, at least you can see your drop shadow. Cuz if the distance is really small, you but you can't really tell what's going on. So crank it up, and go on to the next All right, in the next video, though, we are going to learn how to It's pretty amazing to do selections with, Hello there, in this video, we are going to do some selections It's quick, it's really good, and it's and put it into our mixed background, It's quick, it's easy, All right, to get started, let's open up two of the files There's 14a and 14b, All right, so we're going to, we've got put it into this file here that I've made, In an earlier tutorial, we used Now we're gonna use kind of probably is the quick selection tool. So if you click and hold down, which is fine, but it's not as Let's grab him, now just double-check I'm gonna be on the adding to the Or you can be on this first option, In terms of the brush size, okay, you can drag this up and down and We're gonna start with 50, and Okay, roughly 50, doesn't really matter, Cool, and all we need to do is click, Now, what you'll notice is, I'm gonna I don't kinda start selecting the edge, it's a pretty clever tool. I'm gonna just start dragging can you see the little dotted line? They're the marching ants, and they just So I'm just gonna kind of drag around, you can see I just did And it kind of just, it's so clever, it this, so you probably want a bit more So I'm going to now click over here and you can see I can let go of my mouse, Sometimes, it's a little bit hard and what have I got selected, And the easiest way to do it is just Okay, it's called quick mask mode, kind of masks everything out in red. Okay, so turn it on and Okay, so just turn it on and What I'm gonna do is, you can see I'm not going It's pretty clever, the only thing it hasn't done is Now, I've picked a pretty good example for So when you're maybe using your own stuff, a little bit of extra tricks to But if it's a product shot or something like this, that's a really nice So these bits here are not quite right, so Ctrl+Plus on a PC, holding down my Okay, you can see it's miss these bits, there's a little bit of stuff in there. And yeah, quick selection is quick, okay? It's not gonna be absolutely perfect, So what I wanna do is minus for my brush is quite big, so So I'm gonna lower the brush size, I'm gonna click in here, You'll notice that when I start dragging, it looks horrible, and when I let go What you can do, The only trouble with it, it does it does stress your machine out. So get in there, and I've got a really it does stress it out. Don't worry about getting too far Okay, we're gonna do some more So I've kind of tidied If I, say I go too far, it's gone too far, go back to plus and But auto-enhance, you can see, Cool, so let's zoom out, and let's see click on that quick selection tool, So now we're gonna move we're gonna use our technique Okay, and one thing we might notice, Let's click, hold, and drag it, okay, wait, come down. You'll notice that my one has not So I'm gonna Edit &gt; Step Backward, Come back here, and I'm just gonna kind We're gonna look at more sophisticated don't worry. I guess we're just kinda quick selection is an awesome one. The edges aren't perfect, so we're gonna go to Contract. And how many pixels, you'll have to Okay, but I'm gonna go back maybe Now with my move tool, click, hold, not perfect. Okay, but it's a quick solution for Okay, and now I'm just gonna go and kind of rejig this just to show you But If you're happy with that, that's the quick selection tool. But a quick caveat with that tool there. I've picked an image that works well with When we get into things like hair and out-of-focus objects, Okay, so it's one of your tools we'll look at more advanced ones later on. But for studio shots and it's super quick and easy. So what I wanna do is, I wanna resize it, [LAUGH] My spelling is terrible, when I first start, with a U, So I'm going to use my selection tool, I'm gonna use my Edit &gt; Transform &gt; Scale, I'm gonna shrink it down, holding Shift. This is stuff we already know, so And I'm gonna rotate it, I'm gonna Hit Return on my keyboard, click anywhere on the outside here, what I'm looking to do in this case is, I want this kind of Dublin to be behind, So I've got it into where I want, we're gonna play with the layer order. I love this kind of real subtle Watch this, I'm gonna bring the flower That way, you can still understand it's the word And for no reason other than to balance right-click this, duplicate the Flowers With my move tool, move over, now instead Rotate, we're gonna use this one here, Okay, so from now on, I'm just gonna use a Mac, or Ctrl+T on a PC is Okay, so if you're gonna be learning Cuz what it does is, allows me to at the exact same time is, if I go I can rotate it around as once. If you're finding that tough, it just do it the long way, but How balanced is it, I need to find another image and Hit Return, and All right, so It is really amazing, but there's a few terms of selections and So join me in the next tutorial Hi there, in this video, Basically, we're gonna take the same do it properly with something The cool thing about them is you can bringing back the background, then we'll really double back and And you can see, we can fade the edges, around so that we've got more control, Let's do that now in Photoshop. So what is this layer Okay, it's probably better just to You'll see all the perks and So I'm gonna double back and use the exact 14A and B. And we're gonna get up to I'm using the Quick Selection Tool. Okay, and I'm just drawing around super And what we did before is then use The problem with that is it's And what I'm deciding is that, I've cut that background out forever. And my selection is kind of fused forever And that's not what I I wanna make a selection, maybe a quick fix it up later on, or make adjustments or To do that, you make your selection, like you just click this button down here. Okay, it says, Add a Mask. Okay, and it's got a layer mask. And what happens is, we're gonna give it Okay, I need to go through and There's a few little places we'll do that in the next video. But what's happened is, can you see My image is protected, it's perfectly This mask just sits over And where that becomes really nice my mask will do a better edge on this, something else where I Let's go and use it, so I'm gonna grab Up at the top here, using my technique, we've got the same kind of edge here. But you can see over here, And now I can do some modifications whereas before I couldn't. So what I can do is, see this down here in Can you see those lines Cuz you can work on the image or You can see your Properties panel changes, I've got my layer mask selected, and it gives me options to play And real basic one is the feather, so it just kind of feathers Okay, so it wasn't so Cuz it's on a black background, it's gonna kinda let the background And often, this is all you need to just give it a little bit of a feather. So let's look at what So I can right-click on my mask and I'm not turning it off forever. I can just see what was It's not much, cuz it was But if there were other elements that have cropped off, I can just double check. Okay, so this very similar thing where we kind of cropped it out. But now we can go back. Yay for layer masks. So whenever I'm looking I'm seeing if they're kind of self-taught I'd be always looking for layer masks the business that open your PSD files the Either fix it or maybe just turn it off, I can turn it back on by right-clicking I can delete it forever and So hopefully you can see the perks for What we'll do is we'll look at maybe amazingness. Okay, so we're gonna go back Remember we did this one here, Remember we used the circle, We copied and pasted this in. So we're gonna do the exact just use our layer mask to give ourselves So I'm gonna drag out my Get it there. And instead of just going to my cutting the background out and And I'm just gonna click this button. So it's not much in terms of what you do, except you can see here it's Where I've got this mask, this is black the image is perfectly fine. Here is what's called nondestructive. Now we use my technique, grab the Move Okay, now I can go through and So remember, I'm gonna use my I'm gonna scroll it down. Get it down. And let's look at some of the other perks. I'm gonna hit return. So that's done. which was real kind of, so it didn't look really believable, Remember the feather? I can just kind of feather the edge here. I'll go with maximum feather so But you can see I can kind of, It's got a blurry, feathery edge. Okay, and it just helps that to It gets better. Layer mask time, you can see at the moment But you can break that link. Se this little linking icon here? Click on it. Okay, and now, In this case, because it's kinda in the right But if I grab my image now, Move Tool, Okay, we can get our composition right, we'll make adjustments that the client So, in this class so far, we've been By just copying and From now on, though, you and Turn the link back on, cuz otherwise [LAUGH] And where we start tightening up some of We've been doing it easy so far. Let's make it hard. Or at least harder. All right, see you in that video where we Hello, in this tutorial we are going to masks. The most complicated of them all is here, that's a little out of focus And using the power of Photoshop and hey, we're gonna mask it out just because using the underwhelmingly It's amazing. It's gonna do it now. So we've got two files open. We've got 14A, which we've used before, and we're gonna open up So grab both of those open and And we're gonna built on some of So we are going to use We're going to use a brush size of, in this case, cuz it is such a clear So I'm gonna click, hold, and we did this in the previous tutorial. So I've got most of it there, Anything I need to fix up is just Zoom right in, Now it's shortcut time, okay. We're not going through too many in this kind of level, but look at your keyboard and And we are using the square So the open and close square brackets, It makes your brush bigger and smaller, going, okay, now I need a small brush It's a nice way to get started. So I'm gonna do something quite small, So I can go to minus here, and just kind minus that bit there. Gonna get it even smaller, and I'm not gonna spend too long now cuz I'm gonna tidy that up. I say no, but I'm gonna do it anyway. Zoom out and I've got my selection. And like we did in the previous tutorial, we're gonna add a layer mask cuz And we're gonna have something And we looked at doing feather, and what we want to do is maybe So what we're gonna use is this magic If you can't see it, you might be on So I can click on my mask, and then Select So click on Select and Mask. They should have called it like super Because it's got an insignificant name, it does some really amazing tricks. So yours might look like, more like this. So we need to do a couple of things. The first thing is along the top here, we to onion skinning, we can check Now, this will depend Ours is white against black. So if I start masking it against black, okay, so just put a solid black background It doesn't show me it very well. Whereas white, I zoom in a little bit. You can see it's a really easy So decide what works for It might be on the layers, that might if you've got a layer underneath. So where does the magic happen? Magic happens is, there's kinda two ways. If you go to Edge Detection, okay, and after you can just lift this up, I'm gonna crank it up a little bit, and It can stress your Now also note that we're not looking at on, it just stresses your machine out even So if the machine is struggling, I turn mine on, and what we're gonna This one here that says Show Original, So this is what it used to look like, So it's kinda softened that edge nicely. The shortcut for it is P, So just tap P on your keyboard to It's smoothed it out, but I find the magic potion often is and this Decontaminate colors. This works really well when there's a huge the foreground that you're And the color kind of leaks around you'd have like a blue kind of that's often where the problems So you can click on Decontaminate Select P on, P off. Now that fixed this What we'll do is we'll open We'll finish this one off first, but So there are other options, This is work for this particular exercise, similar flowering against the background, Don't think radius and decontaminate colors are the only things So let's turn Decontaminate colors off, kind of tries to kind of smooth that you might have got in your selection. Feather does what we did in I don't find that super helpful. Contrast, Shift Edge. Shift Edge is a handy one, If I go a little bit this way, instead of decontaminating the colors, this radius, minusing it a little bit, Find that is a reasonably useful one too. So if there is a lot of I guess is what I'm trying to get across. When you're finished, and what we gonna And you can create a new I'm just gonna adjust the one But what I should have done before I Decontaminate colors is And I'm gonna say, let's make a new I can see my one versus my new one. So there's the new one, and clear the edge, turn that one off, But let's go and look at a more will work the same for, say, some grass, So let's jump over here to the 15. So this one's a lot trickier. Where it's really had to out of focus here could be the hardest. So I'm gonna show you Is it gonna be absolutely perfect it's gonna get you most of the way there, So what I've done for you, for this I got the model on top of a background, What they have to do with our florist, I'm everyone's gonna ask about it, I know, So with the layer selected, okay, I'm gonna go back to my I'm gonna start with 50 just because, and I'm just gonna click and Cool, so if you're playing along, yours selected, it's gonna be slightly I've got a reasonably, And what I wanna do is add a layer mask. You're like, mm, not very convincing, Dan. So what we need to do now is click And at the top here, we've got to decide against what Now, you can see against white, against Remember, before, it was white, On layers could be quite useful as well, carried away with getting the most just needs to look good against here. So let's start with on black Now, the radius is just not gonna work bit so you can see kind of, This is kind of out of focus here, but the If I left that the radius, it's gonna it's kind of not doing So radius is not particularly Now, I can play along The problem is it's doing it globally, and I have these two really So I want to use some of these it's this one here that's It's called the refine edge brush tool. And basically, it's a brush tool to say, Have another look at this particular see if you can fix it for me, like magic. I'm gonna use a bigger brush size. Now, I'm cheating in using And you can use the slider up here to make it bigger and smaller. Have a look down your keyboard, It's one of the really helpful ones when P key, just to the right of it, are square Just tap them, and see that it'll I find this is a real easy way to work. So what I'm gonna do is make a nice big a look at paint, I'm gonna paint across Give it a second to catch up. And it's gone through and tried to re I might do this one, I'm gonna grab have a look at this as well. I'm just painting along down here. Wow, it's hard to do. Very steady hand. [LAUGH] You might zoom in and So it's kind of fixed, so you can kinda kind of start using some of these edge just particular parts. So I'm just gonna work around and save. That was a bad go have another go. This wasn't great. This wasn't great. This wasn't great. And moving around, give that another go. That's been another go. Now remember, we're doing against black, it's a good way to get started but don't this is never gonna look good. It's not perfect around the outsides yet. I'm gonna keep working around. Have another go at that please, I'm going super fast. I should be changing my brush But let's just have a little So let's look at against the layers. So this is kind of a more important You can see some of which is cool, it's not as blobby, Now, do you remember from if there's color kinda leaking around the called Decontaminate colors. And it kinda just tries to get rid of we're looking pretty magic now, right? I'm impressing myself, which I But I'm impressed with Photoshop. It's really cool, And you can see now I can just zoom in, and just work on the parts that So you have to change your brush size. It's gonna go through and Let's zoom out. Okay, see how convincing it is? I'm gonna probably have to go through, and more with the brush for these kinda But you can see if you tried to do this impossible, okay, so Select and Mask has For things like here that are out of focus So there is just times where If you've got somebody moving out of focus against the hay bale. Select and Mask is not gonna be you need some sort of contrast. So if you're in charge of the photo shoot, contrast against your model or so that you can use tools I hope you have fun with it. I love it when it came out, Thank you, Photoshop. Let's get into the next tutorial, Hi there, in this video we're going A lot of people ask me, There are lots of forums people Okay, we're gonna dive in, them right now in Photoshop. All right, so We're gonna look at smart objects images, things like logos and icons, So, to get started, 16a-smart-objects from the source files. Now let's bring in and image, File &gt; Open, and Another image from Norwood themes, great, click All drag, drag, drag. We've done this before, Okay, and we've got our image here. It's really big, okay, lots of quality in So what I'm gonna do is I'm while the way we've been doing it and So I'm gonna grab my Edit &gt; Transform and Cmd + T, zoom out a little bit, okay, I'm gonna scale it down to Let's say I get it down to this size, Mainly just to show you an example, I'm gonna remove the background. It's gonna be this little I click Return, done, what I might do is make it bigger. So I'm gonna use my shortcut again, And I'm gonna make it nice and can you see the quality of this guy here? I want it nice and big in here, okay? Hit Return, And that's where the value of If you make it really small, I'm gonna get ri of all of And when you make it bigger, they're just not there anymore, So with this layer selected, And we are gonna bring in the proper way. So same technique, And before you do anything, right-click And we are gonna hit Convert to Smart Okay, the only thing that changes really wasn't there before. We turn it off, turn it back on, basically all you need to do. You don't need to remember to do much, But what happens now if I go to my Petit, I'm not sure why I Bad transform, hold down Shift in, It's really teeny tiny, zoom in, Let's go, you can see all So that's the perfect, though, that's What it is, is, think of a wrapper it's like a little cocoon. Hit Return now, it's a little cocoon That protects it, so even though I make it shell, inside that shell is Now your file size will be bigger, okay? Cuz we've got the big version in there but it means that it gives me lots of And it protects it from what's things that will wreck the image, okay? You can kind of do stuff to it but What I'm gonna do now is, do this Now, just so I made a rectangle using the Rectangle And then I added our color We did this earlier in the course, right? I've got some ticks there as well. All right, the next thing we're images are used that way. That's the best way to use them, So let's bring it in and I'll show you two different ways cuz if what you're probably gonna be So I'm in Adobe Illustrator, You can just watch, I'm gonna File &gt; Open to my exercise 16c, it's my vector logo. And the cool thing about this, so drawing things like logos and icons, okay? Better than Photoshop but let's say what I can do is grab my black arrow, Okay, hit it Copy, Okay and then go hit it Paste and pixels is not the good way, Let's do the before and after, I hit Return, okay, to get it the right I'm gonna paste it again. So I got two options, let's turn off Add to my current library Let's click OK, I'm gonna hit return, So now I have two using both methods, And the difference is going to be So I'm going to zoom a little bit, they're both the same kinda So this is my second one, Let's name them, let's go, And Very Smart, I'm gonna Stick Click the first one, hold Shift, I'm gonna use my shortcut for Cmd + T on a Mac, Ctrl + T on a PC. And get ready for it, And let's make this thing very big, and I'm gonna hit Return, you'll notice Is, let's have a little look, You've all seen that, okay? It's all pixelated and See this guy, smart object man is, she, it's probably a she, okay? So that is the big difference, okay? When you bringing in logos or say your Envato Elements account. And it does give you the option, it says, Yes, object, Why would you not use a smart object? There is a handful of saved filters If there is lens blue, it won't work, Every new version of Photoshop, more of these features. So smart blue doesn't work on that but And let's go to Filter &gt;Blur and that's one of the drawbacks, okay? The other drawback it let's say you did wanna use Lens Blur, So I'm going to get rid of my Let's say I'd like this though, and But I wanna add a Lens Blur to it, so it's not gonna work until convert it And what that's really called is if There's one that says Rasterize Layer, except now when I scale it up, It'll scale down just fine, but any bigger So I don't want to do Filter, I'm gonna go to Edit &gt; Step Backward And I'm gonna show you one using a smart object, especially So I'm going to do a couple things, I'm gonna shrink it down, My arrow key is just to Let's make it white, with this layer we'll use Color Overlay. And mine's already defaulted to white, I've got that version, right? Now I wanna use it in a kind of a hero saw at the beginning, So I'm gonna right-click him, I'm gonna give him a name, So I've got two of them now, I'm gonna scale this one up, and it's got all the lovely vector, I'm gonna lower the capacity, thing in there, here it looks okayish. And so where the perk is, let's say that I'm still developing There's a really cool, neat little I can double-click, let's say, Double-click the thumbnail with Now it's gonna open up in So in this case, So I'm gonna click OK, and what it does is, It's a second version layer, That original one I made and copied in, I'm just gonna close them down. But this guy here, this is a vector smart object, there's What I can do is let's zoom in, okay? I'm just gonna do a real basic, gonna click on this thing here. And I'm just gonna drag the point, I'm just, Okay, so I'm just adjusting this, okay? Plants ask for changes or I'm go over File &gt; Save. Jump back into Photoshop, you ready? You see, That's a little thing we made, okay? There he is there, they're connected together, okay? So it makes for lots of changes, especially if say you use the logo It's all connected, It's nice to be able to go inside, see it update across different artwork. I am totally wrecking this thing now, That is right, save it, jump back in here, Jump back in here, and do it, save it, So to recap, basically bring in an image, you can put it into a smart object, If you have to convert it to It's right-clicking it and rasterizing it, there are some extra Copying and pasting from, Illustrator, copying and pasting logos in. And the other thing I'll quickly pasting from Illustrator, And this one it says Place Embedded, I can do the same thing without You might not be that keen on it, you so you can go straight to here. Bringing in your vector file, Place, And entering your keyboard And cool thing about that is that I'm just gonna make him a Smart Object. So you don't really need to, I guess, But you still have all the same perks Go into it and make adjustments, have it update in Photoshop again. All right, smart objects, You're gonna be doing lots of images, All right, I think I just need we'll get on to the next one. Where we look at some of the Transform and fun Photoshop stuff. Let's jump into there now and get started. Hey there. In this video, we're gonna take this kinda wrap it around our coffee cup and And kinda make it so You can kind of see it there. All using the magical Let's get into it. All right, so first up, it's from Rawpixel on Unsplash. And let's bring in our logo that we're And so let's go to File and And we're gonna start with we're gonna use transform logo, 17b. Click on Place. Yep, everything's perfect, click OK. And then we are going to I'm happy how it comes. I'm just gonna hit Return And remember from the last video And we were like Photoshop is awesome and it converts it to a smart In the very next video that's Okay, so what we need to do is we need to You can do the basics while it's which we've covered already, I'd never use Skew. Okay, you might need Skew. Okay, I'm gonna hit Escape to say no, So not a smart object, So we'll just Right click the name and we Okay, nothing changes except We get to go to Edit, Transform and we're Okay, and it's just gonna allow us to, when you grab one of the corners you'll Okay, so what I'm gonna try and do is I can click anywhere Don't use the little crosses in And then I'm just gonna kind of try and There's just a lot of like trying to, does that look right? Does that look right? There's a lot of that when I'm just trying to make it It could be painful to watch. And yeah, I fiddle around the way just You give that a go. Okay, when you're finished though, it'll be all grayed out until you Enter on your keyboard to say, Cool, so There's a few other ones we'll just Under Edit, Transform there's Horizontal just kind of flips it over. Okay, let's look at one of the other ones. Let's bring in another graphic. Let's go to File. Let's go to Place Embedded. You could be copying and pasting from using pixels in that case. Let's go down to 17c. It's just a square version that I made. Click OK. If you do get stuck in this kind of nothing's gonna work. It's kind of saying I'm boarding it in, I'm just gonna say Enter on my keyboard, Same problem as before. We're gonna have to Right click them and With my Move tool I'm just gonna move it I wanna kinda make it wrap Now there is a setting in here that I never use Perspective. Why? it does this which is kind of cool, This might work for you but I find to do that effect that we did Okay, you might like Perspective. Have a play with it. I don't find it very useful at all. I'm gonna hit Escape. The one I do find super useful there's this one called Warp. So I use that one and that one quite So Distort was great for And Warp it looks very similar So I'm gonna zoom in. Move across. And if I grab one of the corners here and just drag it around can you Whereas this was kind of like we're it was quite kind of solid. Whereas this everything's kind of bendy. So the cool thing about this, And there are some default You can pick Arc, and there are some adjustments over here. And you might get lucky and So say this one here, the Band, say it'a the moment there's a bit of So you might decide that So I say negative 50, maybe negative 20, But there's this other kind of I want these Custom ones are not gonna Remember Fish? Can we do this with type? You always need Fish. There's never not occasion for Fish. And if you wanna get back to Okay, actually, I'm gonna hit Escape on my keyboard to get Edit, Transform and let's go to Warp. Okay, and what I'm gonna do is again, just kind of a lot of playing There's a lot of dragging over. And what happens is there's So these kind of four corners, okay? And then they're these things. These handles that affect how you need to play around Okay, so you can just watch me there's practice in this case. Okay, out a bit further. And what I'm looking at is trying to follow the edges here and So I need this to bulge out a little bit. I need this to kind of come So we're doing quite a rigid object and say it's a mocking up So I've got a photo of a billboard and I've got my kind of like design It's a good way of kind of just trying I use this quite a bit when we do branding logos on the shirts and And another use, But I got a few tattoos and I like to mock them up on my body colors like look just to kind of, Cuz you can get quite, you can see you can enough kind of prodding. I'm gonna go, I've gone and wrecked Okay, so you can form this around the So I'm gonna try and You're getting the idea now It looked better [LAUGH] before. Okay, so I'm gonna jump out now and actually make it look half decent like All right, and I'm back. And I spent a bit of time just kind How long did it take? I don't know. I was at it for about two or three There's no miracle potion for that. But the last thing we'll do before the warping is awesome. You'll be both of them in your toolkit. But I want to get this to interact with the same color across and So we're gonna make it find the right layer to slay here. I turn the eye on and And at the top here we're gonna We're not gonna cover Blending modes switching it from Normal to this And you can see it just interacts with It's the way that this layer It's the same with this lay here. If I click on my Transform Logo and Multiply you can see it just It changes the color of it but actually The good thing about it if I click on this interacting with the background you can All right, so that's gonna be it for Let's jump into the next video where All right, I'll see you in the next video. Welcome back everyone. In this video we're going to look It's called the Spot Healing Brush and We're going to do a couple of cool things the wall, magic we're going to remove before, after, we're even going to go Look what do you mean? There he is, look, there was Cool. Let's go learn how to use this All right, so let's open up and there's going to be three that So we'll start with this one here. Now we're going to retouch out some I've worked as a retoucher for a long I love the technology though. So let's look at the technology. Not so much the faking life stuff. So what we're going to do, we're going to Okay, so the Spot Healing Brush hold down, we want this one here. Okay, and tons of brush size that this particular one, I'm using about, Okay, so you can drop this down. I use my brackets there, Okay, so brackets are really good for doesn't matter if it's the healing So I'll go my size at 15 and So just drag it down to 0, So when you're using it, the bad way is just And I want to show you that first Watch this. hold my mouse kind of painted out. I'm just dragging left and right, let go. Magic I'm gonna go to Edit Undo. Undo, undo, undo, undo, I can't believe how cool and But now you know when people say that it's hard to tell, if you're a good So, one of the problems with that is Like I can't go back now, what ends up happening is what I'm And if you just click once on some of to adjust your brush size, but eventually, looks like quite fake, they'll look like a So what you do is, I'm going to go, there's an option That just gives it back to when at least last saved, okay? So go all the way to the beginning. So the more pro way of using that tool It's a blank layer, nothing on it. I'm gonna call it my retouch layer, but I need to do this one here So instead of like, only just gonna look And make sure it feels as not it safe to should be set to normal, So now when I do it, same thing happens, watch I can kind of paint over these And you can work your way around, brush sizes remember is square Okay, you can go through and after a while It starts Okay, I'm just so good, Okay, let's have a look now. Now, that person is, yeah, let's say it's starting to Okay, what you can do is this layer, it's but it's what they call nondestructive. Okay cuz the background is fine. So what I can do is turn on and It's really good for Okay? And the other thing you can do is if it is just been at it for a long time, just drag the opacity down a little bit. And what that does is it lets some of the through, so you can start to see what's You can just kind of find kind of like maybe blemishes rather than turning them off, I had a friend in this casting for models she'll get people in and like, hey, you you know? Because of all the retouching, so a balance, I guess, softening some of Whatever it is, that's the technique, make sure sample or lasers in there. So let's get away from let's look at one of the cool practical Now we've got our brick wall here and Okay, and we want to remove it. Let's say it's just bad graffiti. That's good graffiti. We all need more love. So same technique here. We're going to make a new layer. So we're going to use our now we're gonna find I'm gonna zoom in a little bit, okay? And my 50 from last time Now when you're doing this, you need to need to click hold I'm holding down the mouse key the whole And now let go, and So I'm gonna paint him out as well, Now, this wall's gonna be pretty forgiving If this was a really even brick wall, this It's really good with nature, okay? So some of the things down here, say you wanna remove this glass bottle, It's really hard to tell where it was. Okay? you, you can go to Edit undo and Often just the act of trying again Okay, so you can keep working When you're practicing, you'll get the sense of You can see I lost that bit, but it depends I guess, If you had to go ahead, if you're old clone tool stamp, forget the Clone Okay? Let's look at this last option here. And it's really really good for Okay, so I'm zooming it a little bit. My brush size, You can see I can click on New layer, make sure a sample of layers. I'm just going to paint You can see pretty magic? I can't believe how good this tool is. And it works amazingly, If it was perfectly like it wouldn't work because there's Now, where it doesn't work, and I grabbed this example, assuming that no way, it'll do badly. Then I went and made a big paintbrush and And then something. Photoshop did some magic. I have to wait a little while but then she just disappeared. I was like, not a good example. But there will be times You'll try and do it and it'll look like there's some sort of And know that it does work really well, least if it doesn't work perfectly you But like I teach this all the time and like these are new examples and All right, so that's going to be it. Remember, it's on it's own layer, no instruction, we can go back later on. But yeah, that is going to be the end for We're gonna look at the next tutorial It's called content aware. So we'll do that next in the next video. Hi there, in this video we're going to look at It is my second most favorite tool or It allows to do fun things where This is the original image. I just need to magic Pray pester. Let's look at another couple examples is the smaller version, but the background A couple more examples that's the original seconds using the same tool. Let's look at this last one here, it's a banner ad or a big little box magic, the table got bigger, Let's learn how to do this All right, to get started let's open the source file, so We're gonna start with this one Okay, this lovely macro And the original photograph ends here but let's say it's, when you end up blowing like across the middle of There's always this like gap on the edge terms of sizes, so Now we could try using the healing there's lots of options but Remember my second favorite tool in this to do is just make sure on the right Bet naming then, go to Content Aware Scale, okay? I'm gonna Escape. If I just use the regular scale transform and obviously it's not going But if I use this one, and start dragging it slowly this way. Watch what happens. Magic? The background gets bigger. But the bee/wasp and When you've got it the way you want, dance around because that is Okay, so Okay, and if you are like goodness that is it. That's the only tool I need. Okay, it works. I've picked some images that It works really good when there's If this was cropped in really small like this, So it doesn't work on all. Give it a test. And we'll look at a few examples now and So this one here, what we need to do for And look, Content Aware Scale So we're in 19 B. We're looking at Katherine Hanlon's. So for this to work, we've run into being in the background, So double click it with background And what we're gonna do is I'm And I need to distinct, cuz I wanna You know the type of Facebook let's call it like a litter box kind So I'm gonna use my crop tool, originally Remember we had it this size, okay? So I'm put it together this time. So using the crop tool, you can see but you can actually crop things out, So I'm cropping it out so that I've got this extra room here, Hit return when you got the crop right, Edit, content aware scale, You'll see, our flower somehow stay the wall gets bigger. Just super cool. Okay, let's hit enter to confirm it. Now you might run into a problem here drag it up. So you want to make it bigger because you at the top here. The trouble with this one is that it's it doesn't work in all cases. So watch especially dragging it up, eventually can you see Okay, so there are times where it just doesn't Who knew what that vase look Let's look at some other instances. Let's look at 19c. So we've kind of expanded things out and you can also so back to my move tool. Make sure double click this layer. This one here is Annie's, this one and the next one. Okay? well, I guess I want to show continuous scale instead of Watch this, you can go in. Can you see the bottom guys, There's magic and And watch this, you can tighten all kind of a smaller group. Eventually it's going to start But for slight adjustments like this, man, move them together, Can I shrink ' down and spread ' out? I can, I can kind of reform this quite easily. Hit return when you are finished and My computer is gonna stress out. Okay, move tool, there we go. We've got this kind of like, you get the idea right? Now let's look at this last one and get are got to be times where everything looks So I'm gonna do the same thing here, I'm Because I want to do that little box I use this heaps when I'm doing, I do really weird shapes, you know that kind banner ad, or that skyscraper Okay, so So I've used the crop tool, And I'm gonna go to edit, transform, there's gonna be a bit of a problem look, So everything else is The desk just got bigger, the leaves that it couldn't work out this So we hit Escape, what we can do is we can So if you scale it out and what you do is you collect Might be the, we can use the rectangle and We're gonna use our favorite, And I'm just gonna kinda draw box in just kind of runs out and And I'm gonna go to Select Save Selection. Okay, so we need to do this step first. So we make any selection we like, go to Select, Save selection. You give the selection a name, Okay, I'm gonna go to Select, Deselect. So I'm done with that now. You just make your selections. It could be multiple selections. In my case it's just a little one. Now when I go to Edit, And there's an option up here that says A name, that's the thing I wrote. Okay, and now hopefully its gonna Hit return. My goodness, that is pretty amazing. I love it so much. Now we're doing pretty big examples here. We're dragging it quite far out to you might be doing two smaller adjustments to fit your dimensions. Okay, drag it out, If something does go wrong, Save that selection then start Now, another caveat for this one is that it's gonna work Okay, using the techniques we've learned really kind of confusing backgrounds where an object or a person. It doesn't work very well. So there are times where just doesn't But there are times where half a day's worth of Photoshop work All right, let's get on to one of the last all the different kinds of formats, I'll see you over there. Hey everyone, this video is all about So we've done our work, we're finished, We'll cover how to send them to sending them out to print and web and So first up, open up our file, Now, this is something you can have your version So the first use case is let's say into something like Adobe InDesign, So where I make my magazines and Now this technique is true for all of the it could be Premiere, All they really want is, there's actually you just leave it as this PSD, exactly the same file I'll show you what I mean, so I'm working I wanna bring in my file, File, I find my source file, I drag out my file, Great, move down, Cool, so And you can see, it'll print fine from InDesign. Okay, so if you need to incorporate product, just bring in the PSD. One of the perks for it, though, in here, and I need to make some amends, kind of move it around or decide that it The background, okay, I need to change, there's an invert adjustment, okay, and All I need to do is File &gt; Save, and in here, nothing really happens, except here my links panel has Okay, I'm gonna click to update it. And you can see, just went and updated. Okay, so it's a really quick and easy way to work within other Adobe And the cool thing is is that when it flows into other products. Now let's look at another use case let's jump back into Photoshop. So here in Photoshop, either my home printer, or email it to it might be a flyer or a business card. And in this case, we're gonna use the PDF format. Okay, so we'll do that one first, and then we'll look at maybe just So this one here, File, we use the Save As Okay, click on Save As, there's an option okay, or Photoshop, Okay, I'm gonna put mine on my Desktop, even, and give it a name, There's a lot of warning dialogs when cuz what we wanna do is, With that on, it's basically just a Okay, we don't need that, we don't need them to have all We just want it to retain all the image, any vector that we're working with, So we've turned that off, just make sure you're Go back to High Quality Print, it turns it's High Quality Print Modified. If you see modified, don't sweat it, all You click Save, and normally, I think I've It says, hey, you sure you wanna turn Cool, I'm gonna close it down now, I just wanna close it down now. Let's have a look at my desktop, Okay, the cool thing about him is, he's a real small file size The original that we opened was at 20 the niceness, that good quality, So that's a great way of Let's explore a different exporting We just did the retouching earlier, now I need to send it to Okay, it's going to a photo lab they don't need a PDF. The PDF will look fine, is a JPEG, and You do it under File &gt; Save As, again, and What you want is just the standard JPEG, Click on that, gonna stick it on it's on my Desktop, I'm gonna call And this is where I guess it's quite We've done some retouching, we wanna keep it as large as we can, okay, Okay, you wouldn't, especially if you we wanna make it look nice, keep Let's check my Desktop now, Okay, how big is he, So still really small, but The difference between that and, is there's no layers left in this one. You can see in my Photoshop document, This JPEG is a flat pancake, sending to the printer because they They just want kind of a nice, compact, All right, the next use case is going out the kinda same rules It's about getting great quality image for Because they they need to upload, we don't wanna be waiting for you image So let's look at this first option here, a banner for a Facebook title, What I wanna do is go to File, and it's under Export, and this one here. Export As is the magic one, If you're using Save for Web, it works Okay, so in this one here, because remember, there's no checkerboard kind of hole in the background, in this And the quality slider, when we exported use a different way because it retains Because it's going to a website, or Facebook or Twitter, we use the Export As feature. And whereas before we had the quality weren't worried about file size, in this Can you go down to 2% quality? The way to know is, if you zoom in, it's starting to look pretty junky at 2%. The cool thing about it, though, is over here, Okay, so it's teeny tiny. So best to check it at 100%, okay? And you can see, even 100%, some of the pixels all glooping together. So how low should you go? My rough rule of thumb is between, Okay, I find somewhere in there there are exceptions. Let's try 30, click out somewhere, Zoom in a little bit, Type is gonna kinda stand you're not gonna notice You can see it still looks pretty good, Okay, but things that have crisp edges So I might decide, actually, You can just drag this up and down by down and deciding what you want. You can see the file size, though, is a lot bigger at 135 than it is at 30, If you don't care about file size, So for websites, file size is really Leave it at 100%, that's fine if you're gonna just All right, once you've got it there, give it a name on my Desktop, and leave Now there are occasions where you I've turned off the background, Remember we did these masks earlier, cuz we need transparency. Often, you'll only need transparency Not everyone's gonna need this, okay, but let's say we need to retain Because on the website, you can which is perfect. So all we need to do is just go to we just save it as a PNG. A JPEG, you will see, will fill in cuz a JPEG just can't handle transparency, Okay, so we'll leave that, it'll just be see-through. This might be cool if you're going out to, you wanna keep the transparency. Or in my case, I do a lot of web stuff, Big trade-off is there's no you can see the file size is really big. If it wasn't so big, okay, and it would be a lot smaller, but yeah. That's how you get out a file for Click Save All, Save, And that's it. So hopefully that gives you, Okay, so normally just leave it as a PSD program like InDesign or But if you need to go to print, okay, But you have to go this File &gt; Save As, JPEG, it's different from the JPEG in If, like in this example, there's all sorts of stuff going on, it's that's under the Save. I like to mix them around, So Save As is the PDF. And the last was social media or websites. And it's just hiding under And a JPEG if you don't have transparency, All right, friends, that is gonna I will see you in the next one. All right, you made it, and we'll just talk about Okay, so first of all, Okay, so if you go to the forums here and Adobe Photoshop for beginners, you'll share what you've done and Okay, or you can share it on social media, Okay, for Twitter, we are TutsPlusDesign, Instagram, I'm BringYourOwnLaptop, And then I guess working at The easy one is an advanced there's a few of those here on But then you might consider yourself, Okay, so if you're a photographer, you might be more going into something That might be your kind of next step for If you are a web designer or UI kind of there's some courses here for Photoshop Okay, there's a few features you, you might check that out. Or you might move into something like That's a really cool tool for You might be in the marketing field or You might find the next best something like InDesign, Or Illustrator, which is more illustrations and icons and Or another nice thing you might that space is something It's a really cool way for Fix photos in Photoshop, and then add some So that is going to be us, we are done, I hope you did, I did. And that's gonna be the end of the course. I'm going to finish with an awkward wave. Bye now,