In the U.S., the typical home in an HOA pays between They act as hyper local governments and in many ways exist. When you sign into a covenant that runs with Home insurance companies are saying homes are too risky Losses are increasing related to climate risks. As that risk increases, so does the cost of insuring hand. A group of large landlords is now being sued for their Realpage is facilitating a housing cartel. There's not enough housing in the US, so guys like us a pretty good spot. The software takes empathy out of the equation. 84% of newly built single family homes sold in 2022 homeowners association, which are organizations that Certain local governments require almost all new They're rooted in the desire for municipalities to things that you would normally associate with paying Homeowners associations provide value to owners. But there's been a backlash to Hoa's because of some When I first bought this house, I was very excited. It seemed like it was a very nice, cozy, close knit Then it started turning into a horror story. I'm a huge believer that, you know, you do sign away condo association? It's a matter of personal preference. Some people like anchovies on their pizza and some Some people really like living in homeowners Others don't like it. So why are HOAs so powerful and do they make homes more Homeowners associations are run by a board of in the community. The HOA typically handles communal amenities such as swimming pools to making sure The board may hire a management company, which tend to Homeowners in the community pay into a fund for the In the U.S., the typical home in an HOA pays between HOAs have the authority to hand out fines to residents following the rules. Those fines may also accrue interest in some cases. The industry's annual dues for their HOA in Newnan, than the national average. So on paper, their HOA membership doesn't seem like But that's not been their reality. When we moved in in 2008, we found out that there was a the home because it had been sitting in the community balance and late fees and any other type of fines that home for lawn care or anything. All of that was attached to this home when we moved From 2008 to 2014, we tried to get in contact with the reply from them and we just kept trying and no answer. By August 2015, the HOA put a lien on the Inostroza In the court documents, the HOA said the Inostrozas A lien is when a party has a legal claim to an asset, satisfy unpaid debt. This can open the door to the HOA, escalating to the the home or, in the Astros case, garnishing wages. In mid 2015, they started garnishing my wages. The first time I learned of that was when I got my I didn't get any prior notice. I got a notice two weeks after. Even though the HOA was collecting from Jules paycheck, fines rather than deducting from the overall balance The HOA said the Inostroza owed more than $4,300 in I decided to go into debtors court. My attorney and the Hoa's attorney came to an $3,200. We paid in installments, and we finally paid year. But it seemed like never got to the management or interest. That's all that was doing. So they were still saying that I owed almost $8,000, agreed on 3000 something. The Inostrozas estimate that they've paid about $12,000 with thousands of dollars in legal fees to their own The latest invoice they received on August 18th, 2023, Even after paying $12,000. They're still saying that we owe them $8000 after. The past, with 23 after the past ten years. Ten? Yeah, about ten years, yeah. Cnbc reached out to Homeowners Management LLC for to contact the current management company as of August A representative from the current management company, the management company for this community in the last on historical facts regarding the Inestroza case. The former director of the HOA board, who oversaw the October 2023, declined CNBC's request for comment. The attorneys representing the HOA board did not Jessica Navas and Matt Bozzone, who are also their HOA. I started to have this feeling that there was something They discovered a history of at least 25 foreclosures Just one house can have a record between 2 to 3 Jessica hadn't just took the initiative to go to knew were homeowners. We never would have known any of this because all we home, raise our children, that's it. And we never knew that anybody else was going through me? I feel like it could be a positive thing when the good and good for property value. A big part of an HOA sales pitch is that the presence The board is responsible for protecting property values single biggest investment they're ever going to make. There's mixed evidence about whether this is true. A 2019 study found that on average, HOA homes cost at That comes out to an extra $13,500, but those property location. A different 2019 analysis of three US cities areas were less than those in neighborhoods. Without them, the Inestroza property value has following the housing crash to 2023. I don't think that HOA has anything to do with our I feel with the HOA, the management company don't They're just there as employees, the community that Hoas can also be necessary in order to manage shared homeowners. There are associations out there that handle all the Even though you may own your lot. The association cuts the grass and they do all the So is that a cost saving? Sure, management companies can help a community volunteers needs assistance. One large company will will manage 20 or 30 or 40 hoa's a region, and they tend to have it down to a science. They know how to deal with trash pickup. They know how to deal with yard maintenance. They know how to deal with complaints. They have their fines and their enforcement down to a Relying too much on a property management company is homeowners to run their own association is also going The management company and the manager are simply a They may handle all of that routine activity on behalf folks who live in the community and volunteer remain The board in that situation is still responsible. They are still the fiduciary they are legally and decision making in that community. I think that there are times and places for HOAs, and I abuse negates that benefit. A lot of people have trouble thinking of community many cases, they they are. You have to think about it like running a business. At the same time, you have to think about it from the all have this shared goal of making sure their that. And when you bring in an outside advisor to help goals are not the same as the goals of the people who Professional involvement in Hoa's is increasing, with to $38 billion. Jessica and Matt have been fighting for more We had four months of pulling teeth. We wanted a general ledger, but they gave us a balance We contracted a forensic audit or CPA. It is very concerning to see that the amount of income particular aspect. Fine citations, collection, legal fees and her freeze the account, get access into the bank account. The numbers don't align with each other. In most cases, it's association management companies management services for the association each month. They're not getting a share of the proceeds. That's not how they're compensated. We didn't have a management company. We wouldn't have to be dealing with these different Basically, they're just milking the community. The Inostroza's experience with their HOA highlights how much power HOAs have. 57% of homeowners polled disliked living in an HOA, saying they feel like the HOA has too much power. People need to understand how much power a board of Governments are giving the power of the municipality They act as hyper local governments and in many ways exist. When you sign into a covenant that runs with Covenants is shorthand for covenants, conditions and These are documents that outline the HOA board and A homeowner's association usually enacts the ccnr's, when it's incorporated by the subdivision developer. The board in the beginning is controlled by the are paid on behalf of the developer to operate that the time. In some cases, it takes years. In other cases, it might only take 1 or 2 years to a Homeowners who have disputes with their HOA say they channels. I have personally contacted the city officials. None of them want to get involved in the HOA. There are only seven states that have an office of HOA Delaware, South Carolina, Florida, Illinois, Nevada, However, the Ombudsman office is usually not very well they have limited jurisdiction over the types of some cases, that's all the Ombudsman office can do is They can't even take an active role in investigating As far as the regulation goes, I think a lot of that So in other words, there's already laws that are set And so inherently they're already being regulated that And of course you've got the court systems for checks your your homeowners association. I think that education is really key, um, to these I mean, they need to know that there's nobody that's is the only answer. So you can't even take these some of these communities There's really a very limited number of scenarios where covenants is not valid. Lawmakers in several states, such as Texas, North address some of the issues homeowners have been professional management industry. There's always going to be a wide variety of So no solution, no bill, no piece of advocacy is ever garner 100% support from everyone. We try to find the best middle ground that makes sure people's investments are protected. As of right now, change has to happen at the court system as well as through voting for a board Matt was elected president of the board in October So these are your new officers. Thank you very much. I did the oath when I became a citizen. It was my duty and regardless of my have to fight for them. I would feel bad, you know, selling this home to going on in the neighborhood. And I feel like I would probably just be like, hey, neighborhood. You may want to think about it. I love this house. It was our dream house from the beginning, even It was over our heads. But we just worked really hard and made it become our And I love it. I have my horses here. I have a 100 pound tortoise that I saved. So yeah, I just love it. It couldn't be more perfect But Allstate, who insured Darlene's house for 18 years, You can't just say after 18 years of being okay today, And that's it. Home insurance companies are saying homes like The nation's largest homeowner's insurance company, applications for property in California. Household names like State Farm, Allstate pulling out to be actuarially sound for their business. There are companies saying there are too many buildings Inflation is making it too expensive to rebuild, and Losses are increasing related to climate risk. As that risk increases, so does the cost of insuring hand. But without homeowners insurance, many homeowners can I've been trying to find another insurance because I 12,000 a year. I go from 2000 to 12,000. Yeah, we would have to move. There's no way. But selling the home might not even be possible. The moment that an individual gets a non-renewal letter lose 12% of their property value. It's not just California. Louisiana and Florida are contending with similar Why are so many American houses becoming uninsurable, homes lose some of their value? Darleen bought her house for $420,000 at the behest of My girlfriend that I've known for close to 40 years. She's the one that brought me to this. She lives two doors down and she said, you have to buy So I had really no choice. But it was the best thing we ever did. It's just three bedroom, two bath, and it's only You know, it's just perfect. You know, I'm a outside person anyway. So what's the most perfect is the outside. I have a huge pasture for the horses and the backyard on my back fence. So when I go sit in my little girl area where we have I've lost, are all painted on the side of the barn. It's just beautiful. Darlene and her husband still owe about $360,000 on Most mortgage lenders require home insurance as a mortgages on their homes. You are allowed to live in your home without insurance. That would be called self-insurance. It depends on your financial situation, whether or not Insurance acts as a risk transfer tool. So in order to make sure that that investment that the happen, a catastrophe of natural catastrophe or man allows the home to recover. The insurance business model works like this. Companies assess the risk of damage happening to a By insuring properties with varying levels of risk, riskiest assets among the whole group. They reserve some funds to pay out claims and invest They typically make their profits via safely held The insurance rate is a reflection of the risk. Insurance rates are the effect of the risk, not the So the insurance company, in order to operate its needs to do what it can to get those insurance rates Now, insurers are saying climate change, inflation and where it's difficult to operate a profitable business Private insurance companies are withdrawing insurance people are seeing their premiums increase in the Every state has seen an increase, but 12 states have The insurance is regulated at the state level. Some researchers refer to aspects of the regulation as not being fully priced into the market. For example, look at prop 103. Proposition 103, in the state of California was in. California, due to the regulatory policies, essentially in the calculation of insurance premiums, but they year. So the current limit is about 7%. Anything is 7% or higher. Has to go in front of the insurance commissioner. It has to be approved in front of the board. That can take a long time. If they can't charge the adequate rate for the business there. Which leaves people like Darlene with non-renewal their hands. Individual homeowners have a few options unavailable. If you receive a non-renewal notice, there are always Depending on where you live, you can go into residual Excess markets these markets will have a higher cost The rates are not at regulatory approved like the However, it is an option. I've been trying to find another insurance. No one will even step up to the plate. I had one company step up and said they'd do it for I go from 2000 to 12,000. Yeah, we would have to move. There's no way we're retired. Some states also have government assisted insurance A social welfare program, if you will. 32 states and Washington, D.C. have created insurers of last resort. The state fair program in California that is the state resort for properties that have extreme wildfire risk, market. Darlene's insurance agent told her that the fair plan In her case. The guy that was my guy for 18 years said that he quote with the fair plan because he said it's unfair. Plan 12,000 is not really a fair plan in my estimation the deductibles. Even on the 12,000 a year, the If this happens, I'm like, well, what's the point of In the case of California, just for example, the $3,200. Quite honestly, government does not do insurance well, taxpayer or it puts it back on the insurers who are Carlene's insurance agent said that any wildfire the insurers decision not to renew her coverage. On paper, they said, I'm in a fire area and we have a fence that's connected to the house that has been a, you know, so they they did notice note some things So that's why I called and said, well if I just we'll You know, I, I just paid like $7,000 to have trees If they need to be trimmed more, I could do that. I mean, what can I do? And he absolutely said there's nothing I can do. Meanwhile, climate change keeps getting worse. When I first moved up here 18 years ago, we certainly We didn't have any fires this last summer. It was wonderful. But I mean, the smoke came in pretty guess, and that was like upsetting me. Since 2009, there has been a 270% increase in the cost 335% increase in the number of structures destroyed by And for every additional building destroyed, there is notices issued from an insurance company. Florida is a state where the largest insurance company Citizens Insurance Agency. So today the the most at risk properties are on that it's become the largest insurer of the state, which is All of the risks that exist in the state is on one And if there were to be some issue with that now the Communities may need to rethink how they use insurance If you look at some other states who are beginning to communal approach to risk management, you're seeing I think the state of Alabama is a very good example of have embraced the understanding of what is causing we help manage better, manage that risk? And they're allowing consumers to to take grants up to grant to make yourselves more resilient. And we really need to think about the behaviors in so that as a community, we can make it more resilient. But in the meantime, all of this is going to have big therefore the US economy. The insurance mechanism is the first to really price in How would I even sell my house if I can't get This house, the next person going to, you know, house if they can't get insurance. And I guess unless they're coming in cash. But the insurance sector was 2.6% of US GDP in 2022. Housing in general accounts for around 15 to 18% of As the insurance market starts to price in climate impacted. So you need insurance to have economic growth. So hopefully we're beginning to see the policymaking some changes need to take place. Insurers need to be able to charge for risks like climate with a population, an economy the size of You know, as much as the customers are frustrated that they can't do business there anymore. So what we would argue is if we can get the regulation that state. Insurers will be back and wanting to do Their communities need accurate data to understand vulnerable not necessarily populations, but assets are What the most vulnerable parts of their areas are, protect and suppress the risks that exist in those What the insurance industry would also like to see is because if we understand that climate risk is increased climate risk, we've got to find ways to live incentivize that. The tax system, for example, is a great But also we've seen of late some investments taking Insurance companies say they have been trying to The insurance companies absolutely have their own to understand which areas are most at risk, versus When we produced our model, we correlated it with the the citizen plan in Florida and Louisiana. And what we ended up finding were really high risk and flood risk and the the either the those plans across those states. Insurance experts say rethinking how we account for Risk management does not come into play until it's When it comes to individual personal property provider needs you to go get it. And that's the first time when a consumer even begins might be. The cost reflects that risk. That should be, you know, an alarm to tell them that themselves, how could I reduce that risk? Or do I need to think about living somewhere else? Like many Americans, Darlene said when she purchased Now it wasn't even a thought. That's true. But now she's struggling. Even though she feels she did everything right. We're doing the right thing. We're doing everything we can. We retire. You know, we worked hard, we retired. We got our. We take good care of our house. I, I'm never late on my bills. I've paid that for 18 years. I've never you know, we never missed making everything And you just give me no choice. That's the part that bugged me the most, I think, is Give me something to work with. Raise it if you need to. You know the price reasonably. But don't just give me no choice. That's not right. The average rent in the United States, across all forms $1,950 a month. Prices are falling in the west and south, but still When we moved here, it was around 4000. In 2023, it's over $6,700. We were going. To get a 23% increase, which we felt was like an It was an eviction notice. Experts say the U.S. needs to build over 4 million new apartment homes by Otherwise, the pricing power of landlords may grow. There's not enough housing in the US, so guys like us still in a pretty good spot. A group of large landlords is now being sued for their The lawsuits focus on their agreements with RealPage, software. Effectively, RealPage is facilitating a housing cartel. If that's true, will landlords owe their tenants money prices in the United States? The lawsuit, brought by the D.C. attorney general covers over 50,000 apartment units in rents for years. In the District of Columbia. We're confronting, like many communities, and Our housing supply doesn't keep up with the demand. So as a result, we have ever increasing pressure on But what's of significance for the District of particularly in large apartment buildings with more For For example, see the portfolio of Besuto. The company and its affiliates allegedly use RealPage 15,000 housing units in the district, according to Landlords like JBG associates, Avalon Bay, Mid-America were also named in the complaint, which was filed in If you talk about the large apartment buildings in our 5,060%. And then if you add in that type of market total DMV, you have close to an 80 or 90% named defendants. They are not only providing housing in the District of These are national players. For example, Greystar managed over 700,000 units in Three of the 14 named defendant landlords filed According to D.C. Superior Court records, an initial May 2024. The defendant landlords declined to comment on pending This lawsuit and others focus on the software that's RealPage. Realpage products are used to set prices on million housing units in the United States. That includes the units in this complex, some of which month in January 2024. We've been told as tenants by employees of equity, that software takes empathy out of the equation so they can software tells them to charge. Property managers started to price apartments with It's pretty much unequivocal. Just turning this system on and letting it perform There's almost no way it can't. Geoffrey Roper is the inventor of Yieldstar. The product was acquired by RealPage in 2002. Its model was combined with another software lease tool dubbed AI arm for short. So you're going to find large REITs and portfolios out Absolutely. It's everywhere. You know, I can tell you from the design of Yieldstar, across the street is doing in order to determine my He has pieces falling into vacancy points in time that The company says its software can increase a landlord's Realpage told CNBC that it charges landlords a fixed regardless of its rent price. What happens with the proceeds is up to private equity $10.2 billion in 2021. In court filings, Thoma Bravo claimed that it's not The attorney general in D.C. says local landlords comply with Realpage's Our complaint alleges that the terms of agreement that to compel those landlords to charge the rents that the spits out. So rather than making independent decisions calls for in terms of filling vacant units, landlords agreement with RealPage, to charge what RealPage tells Realpage told CNBC that its landlord customers are suggestions. It also says that the algorithm may context. That could depend on how much housing gets The problem is that as prices have gone up since 2011, entry of new developers that compete with those that New construction in key housing markets like Orange to forecasts shared by companies like Equity Or 96% occupied. We raised the dividend 6% a few months ago. So the story is housing is expensive and That could give landlords more power to increase rents. This dynamic of one tenant to a massive landlord, when one, you really have almost no hope. They can basically crush you. Equities Investor Materials say the company started to 2008. They were using some kind of system that every day The entire process had always been stressful, but over especially after Covid, it just got so much worse. Rita Botelho says she moved into Portside Towers She moved out after a 2022 rent hike, which left her Even in the area that we're in right now, my my The rents here are also going up. They're also now fearful. It affects people whether they have rent control or Right. It's manipulating what the market rate is. Tenants across the United States have launched numerous At least 34 landlords were involved in litigation in The Justice Department filed a statement of interest adequately alleged violations of the Sherman Antitrust The Honorable Judge Waverly Crenshaw in Tennessee will He set a February deadline for a response from the The lawsuits ask if the conduct of RealPage and the meet a legal definition of collusion. The lawsuit we brought is under our D.C. antitrust statute. Our lawsuit is aiming to do three things. First and foremost, it's to put an end to this We're also seeking a monitor to come in and put fresh practices. And then finally we're seeking monetary restitution for tenants who have been unfairly and inflated rents higher than what a naturally These systems are carefully designed to avoid conflict with fair housing and any other regulatory As we analyze the markets, we find the opportunity for be, uh, really questionable. There's just not as much concentration as we like to Roper, the inventor of Yieldstar, now develops revenue Similar products are also used in hotels, grocery roads. Back in Jersey city, tenants at Portside Towers subject to rent control. The local housing authority agreed, ordering dollars. Equity residential told CNBC it's filed a challenging that decision, which was separate from the But for the city's non-enforcement, we wouldn't be There is no market rate under rent control. We not only lost our home, but we lost our community. We lost everything. The attorney general in D.C. hopes his case will preserve housing affordability in It's not only illegal and unlawful in this day and age, And that's why we felt it necessary to bring this