Transcriber: Hafsa Atif When I die, I want you to say I helped you dent the universe, change the world-- every phrase that Steve Jobs ever used. And I've been dedicating myself as a podcaster. I've interviewed remarkable people, and I gained a lot of information And what I figured out is that ... there's three stages in life. Actually, I happen to love tricolons, So the tricolons of life. One tricolon is: life progresses from growth Another way of looking at it is that you're underpaid. In the second third of your life, you're overpaid. And in the final third of your life, you should be paying back. And I'm talking about today, Really, just the culmination of life, So I'm going to talk to you today and I'm going to use Frankly, honestly, I believe that you can a top 10 format or a 2x2 matrix. That's all you ever need. And I'm going to use two of First is the top 10. So the first thing I learned these 200 people -- and they were people not rich, not famous, remarkable. People like Jane Goodall, Angela Duckworth, Kristi Yamaguchi, Roy Yamaguchi. Oh, they so influenced my life. Step number one is count your blessings. And all these remarkable people, "Guy, we're towards It's all about counting your blessings." Let me tell you a little violating all HIPAA regulations. (Laughter) I am deaf. I lost my hearing about two years ago. And so the only reason I can hear It's kind of my direct line to God. I don't even need, you know, And you know what? People, when they find out "Guy, you know, that must be I feel so sorry for you. How do you do that as a podcaster?" And you know what? I count my blessings. I have lived a charmed life. Yes, I'm deaf, but you know what? I'm on wife 1.0. (Laughter) I have four children. I'm very close to my children. I get to surf all the time. I count my blessings. And so, I think step one look back at your life. Look back as an optimist. Look at life as half full. Count your blessings. I'm a very happy deaf person. There are much worse things Trust me, nobody ever died Number one is count your blessings. Number two, you've got to change Don't get me wrong, okay? I kept score in the most I kept score by how much money you made, what Apple stock options were worth, what kind of car, what kind of house. I used to do all that. But now I've changed how I keep score. I keep score because I want as I said, when I die -- that I empowered you, that I helped you make a difference. I want people to say, "Guy empowered me his podcasting, his investing, That's how I'm keeping score. That's one way. Second way is, what kind of Because I think kids reflect So those kids they better come out good, And when I say good, I don't mean because they went I could care less about that. I don't want them to go to school (Laughter) I changed how I keep score. It's about the impact that I've had. How much did I help Number three is that -- As I've met more and especially in Silicon Valley, I think you can pick up this attitude like, "Oh, you know, I'm this hot shit CEO, CXO, CMO, CTO, I got all these options. You know, I live in Atherton All that kind of stuff. But what I figured out is you need to value almost And I will admit that when you you feel superior And what I figured out is almost everybody that you meet Now, it may be making tacos, it may be taking pictures, it may be doing sound, it may be writing, But everybody can do So don't be so smug because that person Value all people. Number four. When I was in high school, my father, he stressed on me this concept which means this obligation to help other people in the world, to help society. I have to admit that I recoil Because it implies a certain nobility, you're born with this wealth and power You know, if you're a Prince Harry you're noble and you have this obligation. And I think that's elitist. I think that's fundamentally wrong. And so my turn for this instead of I think that when you are successful, you have got to be obligated It is an obligation. You need to fulfill that obligation. It's not something that is nice to do. It's not something that you're It's an obligation. It is a moral obligation to help people. You have an obligation to help people Number five. Number five is one of by helping others succeed. Listen, when I was in the sixth grade, an elementary school teacher -- and I grew up in she convinced my parents to take me out and put me in a private school. This private school, it's called Iolani, it's the school that This private school prepared me And I tell you honestly, There is no doubt in my mind, because I haven't started a foundation, Nobody helped me write the essay. I didn't pay somebody to Photoshop me into the tennis team. (Laughter) I didn't do any of those things. But you know that teacher, she convinced my parents My parents agreed with her and they made the sacrifice I got into Stanford. At Stanford, I met a guy named Mike Boyd. Mike Boyd, years later, hired me to be I am living proof that (Laughter) And I'll tell you something. So now I look back As Steve Jobs said in his commencement, "You can only connect So I connect the dots. A sixth grade teacher tells my parents I get into the private school. I get into Stanford, I meet Mike Boyd. Mike Boyd hires me into Apple. This is not because I have qualifications. I had a psych degree because that's (Laughter) And I never took So I get into the Macintosh division. I do well as a software evangelist. Fast forward 20 some odd years and Ronit reaches out to me "I have Jane Goodall coming I need somebody Now, I didn't know Ronit. It wasn't like we were BFFs. Ronit knew of me, she didn't know me. And she reached out I said, "Are you freaking kidding me? You want me to interview Jane Goodall? Sign me up. Cancel everything else, I will be there." So I became friends with Jane Goodall, very good friends. And then, years later, I thought, "Who would be the best person Can it get any better than Jane Goodall?" So she was guest number one. And let me tell you something, the way many people make a decision who else has been on it, okay? And when you can tell people, And they say, "Who else has been on it?" You say, "Oh, I don't know. Jane Goodall, have you heard of her?" Everybody says yes, trust me. So the point is, help others succeed. That teacher helped me succeed. When you are successful, Your obligation is to keep that door open. Even better is to make the door bigger. Expand what people call, well, in a negative sense, the Overton window. Make it an Overton platform Help others succeed. Number six. Number six is life ... is about raising the tide because the rising tide floats all boats. Life is not a zero sum game. If the people who are in front if they help make A.I succeed, the rising tide of A.I will make It's not just about making First of all, they have to overcome what I consider the world's stupidest name So it's not about Perplexity. It's also like Bard and Gemini, right? It's all these LLMs. You make the rising tide And the falling tide So think about this. Raise the tide. Life is not a zero sum game. Number seven is to punch up. Punching down is absolutely despicable. Punching down means you go to SFO you rip on the person checking you in, you know, you rip on the waiter. You rip on the waitress because If you're a presidential candidate you make fun of a New York Times reporter because of his neurological That's punching down. You're a billionaire, you're making fun of because he has a neurological difference? What the hell is wrong with you? That's punching down. What you should do is punch up! (Applause) Take on these people. Don't be afraid. You know what? I've figured out that when you punch up, there are a lot of people and they're cheering you on. Punch up. You cannot go wrong punching up. Number eight. Number eight is when you encounter people like, why don't you believe Why did you believe Why do you believe all this kind of stuff? And it can cut either way, okay. But instead of asking, or "Why do you believe Ask people, "How did you Because the "how" shows to arrive at that place. So if you encounter somebody ask them, "How did you And if they say, "My grandfather They did an experiment on him They wanted to see the effect of it. It was a vaccination test So now I'm against vaccination." I have to say that is And when you hear that kind of story, maybe you will understand to differ with you. It's not because they're stupid, it's not because they've been misled. Ask them why they came to that conclusion. It's terrific for empathy and insight. Number nine. Number nine is to learn how to apologize. What a skill apology is. And I'll give you the key to apology. The most important thing "I'm sorry," must pass through your lips. (Laughter) That's it. Not, "Oh, I didn't intend to do this. Oh, are you offended? Oh, did it hurt you?" You know, not all those qualifications. Just say, "I am sorry." "I am sorry ... that the security of my company to get all your passwords and names. I am sorry." It's not that I never intended it, it's not that somebody else I am sorry, that's the key. I am sorry. Learn how to apologize, it is a skill. Number ten. Number ten is to ignore the small stuff. Ignore the small stuff. I'll tell you a story. My wife and I were living with our son towards the Presidio at the end. That is a very nice part of San Francisco. So one day I'm out in front -- (Chuckles) I crack up even when I think I'm in front of our house and Okay, I'm cutting the hedge. This older white woman comes up to me (Laughter) And I'm telling you, I said, "Oh, I'm Japanese American She goes, "No, no, no, I wondered if you do lawns?" Okay, so right there, which is bad enough, The punchline is two weeks later; my father comes from Hawaii. I'm Sansei, third generation. He's Nisei. He served in the U.S. Army More American than American. And I say to him, "Dad, This holly woman came up to me and asked me if I was a yard man And I thought he was going to "How dare she question you? You went to Stanford, you worked You've written books. How dare she ask you Right? Okay, guess what? He says to me, "Son, a Japanese guy cutting in front of a house on Union Street. Statistically, most likely, (Laughter) So he said, "Son, get over it. Get over it, take the high road. Give her the benefit of the doubt. Maybe she just wanted to know She wasn't making Son, you've got to learn If you take something like that to heart and rattles around in your mind, it's going to ruin your life. You're not going to be Ignore the small stuff. Now I have one more thing -- That stops at zero, (Laughter) That's good. (Laughter) Are we in a rush? Is there like a bar mitzvah All right. Okay, one last story. This is a surfing story. For those of you who are I don't have to explain this too much. But for those of you surfing is about 90% sitting in the water, and you're looking for that perfect wave. That wave is the right speed, It's clean and it's well formed. Life is good. Surfing, many people think, is How do I make the right decision? How do I know which way to go? How do I know all this? Make the right decision, then it's easy. I'm going to now show you a little video of somebody who was intent on looking out, but she made the wrong decision. And maybe the decision And I'll show you what happened. (Ocean waves crashing) She's turning. Uh oh. (Beach goers yelling) What am I trying to show you? I'm showing that so much of us, we spend so much of our life What's the right wave? What's the right direction? What's the right strength of paddling? What should we do I think that people who are what they do is they make a decision, and then what they do is they focus Not making the right decision anymore. Make whatever decision right. And that's the last way to embody grace. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you.