- Are NFTs stupid? Or partially stupid or not I want to get to a point in this video where we understand I want you to know what NFTs without necessarily technical detail. Because what I want to do is to what people say they are. Because it's my contention those two things are very different. Like if you read about from reputable newspapers, or listen to people that sell NFTs and what they say they to what they actually are. And if I can persuade you of that fact, does that make them pointless or stupid? Well, actually I've changed on that point. So let's see if we can figure it out. You'll notice that I've that's because I need to go for example, we really need cryptocurrency, and if you understand that you can skip forward. If you want to take a deep dive and how it works, I highly recommend 3Blue1Brown's video on the subject, the link is in the card but the best simple analogy like Bitcoin works, goes like this. A cryptocurrency like Bitcoin that cannot be tampered with. In the case of Bitcoin, that ledger is called You may have heard the Blockchain is just a tamper I won't go into the details but in basic terms, it's because anyone can and new entries can only by cryptographic consensus. So you could look at and see that Alice sent Bob sent one Bitcoin to Charlie. Charlie sent half a Bitcoin to Alice. You can look at the history and see, oh, look, Alice has The only entries that you are allowed to add to the blockchain that send Bitcoin from your Or to use the proper words, you can only send to someone else's address. You can't take Bitcoin from You can't even refuse So it's those two facts that the fact that it's a tamper proof ledger and the fact that you can from yourself. Everything that's interesting flows from those two facts. I mean, plus the fact of how new Bitcoin comes into existence, but NFTs or non fungible tokens They exist on a different ledger, so like Bitcoin exists on a ledger called the Bitcoin blockchain exist on the Ethereum blockchain. The Ethereum blockchain it can do all sorts of different things, including cryptocurrency. But NFTs on the Ethereum blockchain work in a very similar way to Bitcoin on the Bitcoin blockchain. So you can look through Alice sent this NFT to Bob, Bob sent this NFT to Charlie, and so on. The thing that makes non to Bitcoins is that they're non fungible. What does non fungible mean? Well, fun just means interchangeable. Like if you took $10 a different $10, then or at least not in any because I've still got $10. Whereas if you took my wedding ring and gave me back your wedding ring, well, I would care about that because this is my wedding ring, right? It was the one that my when we said our vows. To me, even if your ring it doesn't matter, my But actually for the there's a better analogy. Suppose I'm at the arcades and occasionally I win. So I get these tokens and because I can exchange that's on site there. And I've collected 10 tokens already, so I'm after the shop to get 'cause that's how many tokens you need for the oversized teddy bear. And on the way, for some reason you grab them off me and four different tokens, I don't really care, and I can still get the Because these tokens are But now suppose as I'm and I'm winning games, but there's something written on them. So for example, one has written on it, this token can be used And another token says this can be used to buy a flip flop from So I'm on the way to and you snatch one off me And you gimme back another I'm not so happy because now but I can buy a celery stick. And that's not what I want. I mean, I like celery, but... So these tokens that have they're not interchangeable, They're non fungible tokens. They're real life NFTs. NFT are made possible by because it works differently The difference between and the Ethereum blockchain between a calculator and a computer. With a calculator you can you can program it to be a or you can program it a word processor, or you In a similar way, the Bitcoin blockchain is for cryptocurrency the end. Whereas the Ethereum you can write a program that launches a cryptocurrency. Or you can write a program that does something else. For example, you could write a program and publish it to the Ethereum to create NFTs. These programs that you publish are called smart contracts. And once they're on the blockchain, they're there to stay, you can't stop them from working. Because it's an indestructible ledger of everything that has happened. So once it's there, it's there for good and anyone can interact if they want to. So if you publish a and it conforms to certain we call that an NFT contract. It's a contract that mints in the right way. So what's the point of NFTs? Well, here's a real world I'm hosting an it's a seated event, there's good seats at the and they're all numbered. And you can buy a ticket but instead of selling paper tickets or traditional electronic instead, we're gonna use NFTs. I publish an NFT minting And I use it to mint an NFT Why would that be better than a traditional ticketing system? Well, it's about Like if you bought a paper ticket, you could lose it or If it's an electronic ticket, maybe my database gets hacked or deleted or destroyed in some other way, but the Ethereum blockchain And when you turn up at the event, you can prove that you are the person that bought that NFT ticket How do you prove that of that specific ticket? Well, for this, we need a little bit, the important thing to know is that you have a it's called your private key phone and there's a that anyone can know. And actually that public on the Ethereum blockchain. Only someone who knows that the NFT to someone else. In that sense, it's the private you should never tell But anyway, thanks to the when you show up at my event, you can prove that you associated with the public key that is linked to the NFT ticket without having to show And that's how you who owns the ticket for So, you know, welcome to the an indestructible record of who owns what. Specifically, if it's a to redeem the value of it Just a quick note, actually Well actually weirdly you that you buy anything, potentially. Like I could set up a And if you want to buy an NFT ticket, then you have to transfer to my PayPal account. And when I see that you've done that I will then transfer the that you've told me to transfer it to. And I'm sorry, but you have to But surely the whole is that it doesn't require trust And actually if you want to buy well, you can do that. For example, you could write and publish it to the blockchain, and I, as the seller of of the smart contract and So I can be confident to that contract and know anywhere else until the transfers Ether into that contract. And I know from the code that that ether will be I mean, smart contracts are really cool. It's worth saying that NFTs in this hypothetical way or at least not to any significant scale, you might wonder why? Well, it's probably for the generally using arch but it's really confusing and difficult. So what are NFTs used for? Well, mostly they're used in And this is where the problem starts. Like you might be thinking, yeah, I've heard that I've heard that NFTs are used to sell digital Like what does that mean? Are people really selling Let's have a look at the NFT ever sold. The New York Times reported a digital artist called Beeple for 69.3 million. And that is not true. The JPEG was not sold. That's how the New York What about The Verge? The Verge said that an was sold for $69 million. An NFT of what does an NFT of mean? Does it mean the artwork and can only be accessed by the buyer? Well, it's no on both counts actually. It turns out that adding is expensive and well, a just a short string of text, let's say. And even if the artwork anyone would be able to see it. And that's the point of the blockchain. So it wouldn't be some to be able to see the image by Putting on the blockchain would Perhaps the NFT confers Well actually Beeple in an interview with CNBC, he says: I think that people don't you have the token, the NFT, you can display the token and but you don't own the copyrights. And that's true. So perhaps it's more when you buy a pop song, really what you're buying to that pop song. So maybe when you buy an NFT, you are buying the right to look at or display that digital art. But again, that kind a traditional legal agreement But perhaps the point of the need for a traditional Perhaps control over who is can be managed cryptographically instead. Well, let's actually track down Beeple's 69 million NFT on the blockchain and see if it works like that. So using the OpenSea website, I looked up the owner of the NFT. That's Metakovan, that's And if you go down here, look, this is the address That's the smart contract that for the purposes of making NFTs. And this is the ID for the particular NFT that was made by this contract that represents Beeple's artwork. So let's have a look for that NFT on the Ethereum blockchain. Now I could download its entirety onto my computer Or instead I can use Etherscan, which is a website that does that for me. So look, this is the smart And remember a smart we can actually send So I can say, for example, Remember that was the non fungible along with the And the token ID is 40913 So we put that in, it spits out this. This is the token URI. You'll notice it's IPFS instead that's a complicated thing to get into, but the point is, it's a If you put this URI it might not work. Some browsers have the so you could put this URI for example, and you which is the interplanetary file system. And look, when you put in you get a text file. It's a bit ugly, let's There we go. We can see this data it's in JSON format, which is machine readable, So here, we've got some We've got the name of it. We've got the description of it. There's a little preview And the full JPEG file is here. Interestingly, instead of they've put in this This is just a service and presents it to normie So we can input that and it Look, it's very, very slow. Here it is, it's coming in now. And by the way, this is If I clicked on this to zoom in, I mean, I might be in breach of So we'll stay zoomed out. And once that's loaded, Weirdly, there's nothing this image, it's available You could go to this URI and And that generally in relation to digital art. Before I asked, what does an NFT of mean? Because an NFT of is what Well, an NFT of a digital artwork means that there exists URI on the blockchain that is cryptographically or their public address. And that URI points either somewhere on the open internet, or it point to a text And inside that text file, there is another URI that So when you buy an NFT, a new line is added to the ledger that associates the NFT with you. So you are buying a line in a ledger. I mean, it's a pretty because it means that you in the whole world that can about that NFT, which is to that can transfer the NFT as someone else. You know, when you put it like that, it almost sounds like when you buy an NFT. But actually I think we of ownership to include NFTs, I just mean the, the tokens not the things that they point to. Like, I feel like I own but it's just ones and zeros Like I think it's reasonable of ownership when you're talking about these tokens that exist on the blockchain. Again, not the artwork that they point to, but the tokens themselves. In other words, when you buy an NFT, you own control over a string And when you put it like that, it sounds like owning an on the open internet is a stupid idea. Like anyone can download that image. So why would you want to own on a tamper proof ledger And in that sense, NFTs are Like if I found a picture on the internet, there'd be And if I printed out that there'd be nothing I'm sure loads of people of Patrick Stewart. I know I have loads of times, but if I took this to Patrick Stewart and to me at least that would of Patrick Stewart. Because in some sense, this picture of Patrick Stewart. And things like that have Like you can argue that it You can't use it for shelter. You can't eat a signed but for whatever reason, when a celebrity signs their And in a similar way, if an artist says, I have put this URI on the internet, that points to my artwork and its location on a tamper proof ledger is special, well, then that has value. In the same way that when of their artwork, that has value. Like I could mint an Beeple's URI, would it Well, of course not In the same way that if I signed a picture of Patrick Stewart, it as if Patrick Stewart signed I was actually planning to mint an NFT that points Because I wanted to see how And it wouldn't be copyright infringement because you can't copyright a URI, and it would be clear you know, in that intermediary file that I wasn't claiming to be the artist. You know, it would say it's not mine, it's just But then I'm not a lawyer, and without speaking to one. So I asked a lawyer friend would it be legal for me to And even if it was legal, would someone with a to try and sue me anyway? Here's Devon from Legal Legal. - Yeah, so the short answer in many different ways. The longer answer is it depends, but it's probably still illegal. The thing about copyright is as to whether NFTs A copyright protects people but it also protects people from creating what's called a derivative, something that is inspired So if you create an NFT, there's no copyright infringement going on because you're just pointing that exists on some other server, whether it's decentralized or not. But copyright is just the tip Copyright isn't the only For example, there's trademark, let's say that you make an people have done this. So you're creating NFT based the name of the song, and potentially the artwork you're making it seem like you and that the band is the one That's probably trademark infringement. Then there's all kinds of misappropriation of likeness claims, false advertising and unfair business practices. So if you go out and you make an NFT related to someone else's work, I would not want to represent you, or maybe I would wanna I'd be getting all kinds of fees for all the illegal stuff But Steve you're right, there's a wide Gulf between and what they actually are, especially when you're NFTs as you point out are between two people. And what the NFT represents of that contract. Yes, you're buying a line in a ledger, but what that ledger allows you to do is just based in regular contract law. For example, you say an NFT or it's like a ticket, it allows or it entitles you to some well, that's all based And what happens when to somebody else? What if those terms don't This is a legal maras. And NFTs don't supplant copyright law, sometimes they run straight into it and infringe on copyright law. NFTs aren't going to supplant that is basically set in stone Believe me, there are that no one seems to be talking I cover all of that over on my channel, but the bottom line is don't - I wont do to then. Thanks Devin. By the way, his full video is excellent. I make a small appearance in it as well. The link is in the card it's also on the end screen. So check it out once We haven't talked about NFTs which is how they started So you've got this front the Ethereum blockchain And you can go on, you can see, look, these are the crypto punks that I've got. These are the crypto punks oh, that's a rare one. Maybe I'll try and buy that And you could argue that but then you would also have don't have value, but for whatever reason, trading cards do have value. And crypto punks do for the same reason, because they're the same thing, it's just a digital version of that. And in a similar way, NFTs of digital artworks have value so long as they were So if there's a digital and you want to support them NFTs aren't a bad way to a digital collectible To be clear, the person on Beeple's NFT, probably wasn't doing it because they wanted to support the artist, I mean, that might have been part of it, but most likely that price that they thought it The question of whether or whether NFTs at the moment are a bubble is probably for a different video. I recommend a video called by the way, he also others is rife with scams at the moment. But anyway, if NFTs are a bubble, the question is what will The .com bubble collapsed and transformative. So who knows? Will there be a mature market to people who want to support them? Take this artist, for example, I actually know him and Every artwork that he an aspect of his life or And I'm really interested in that journey. Last time we caught up, explain what it means. So this piece has value to me. So the fact that he's getting for me, I think because Specifically, I like collecting things that have meaning to me. Transactions on the Ethereum blockchain come with a significant carbon footprint. So until they transition to proof of stake system, I might hold off on actually But if you asked me now are NFTs stupid? I'd probably say they don't have to be. I guess my beef is just with Like when you buy an NFT, you're not buying an NFT of the artwork. You're buying an NFT that of the artwork on the open internet. And that's okay. So long as we're all honest about that. You know, over the years I've I learn is by building Like, for example, by that actually works on the blockchain, I feel like I really understand 'Cause I had to solve all along the way. And honestly, I believe for most people to learn STEM subjects, which is why I'm grateful to Brilliant. Brilliant is a STEM learning platform that's incredibly interactive. Take a look at this large All the courses on brilliant And you can find courses on but they also have courses artificial intelligence, and naturally they have a So you can learn all about Brilliant's available but it's also got an app that I consume Brilliant I scroll through brilliant whatever other thing. And so instead of passively I'm actively learning To get started for free, brilliant.org/SteveMould. The first 200 people to use Brilliant annual premium subscription. The link is also in the description, so check out Brilliant today. I hope you've enjoyed this video. If you have, don't And the other thing I thinks (upbeat music)