- [Narrator] Store beer but non-alcoholic beer is growing fast. Since 2020, its sales have seen double digit growth every year, hitting more than $440 And in the US, Athletic Less than a decade old Athletic has driven about a third of all category growth for the past four years. - When Athletic entered the one style of non-alcoholic beer available, very few brands, very poorly distributed. - [Narrator] And in 2024, its non-alcoholic beer competitors beating out Heineken and Budweiser. But as Athletic rapidly can it keep the buzz going? This is the economics of Athletic Brewing. - One of the advantages that Athletic has over huge beer companies is that it is able to focus exclusively on this niche of non-alcoholic beer. - [Narrator] Since Athletic's founding, it has invested over $100 million into manufacturing and developing its own process of - Non-alcoholic beer was and it was a really penalty box concept, and then there was basically - [Narrator] Even as more companies have added alcohol-free it's common for them to just make their original product, beer, and then remove that alcohol Athletic takes a different approach. Instead of adjusting just Athletic makes 10 to 12 changes It's a new process and a single mistake could make alcoholic beer ruining a batch. - Their process can be more complicated, but in some ways it can - [Narrator] For example, for of water Athletic users, it creates one gallon Whereas the Brewer's Association estimates that the average craft brewery uses about seven gallons of water - So, we're almost two What we're trying to figure out is how we can squeeze out of every single batch. And so, we're investing in equipment that can help us do that. - [Narrator] And Athletic to the specific needs like pasteurization, one step due to its alcohol content. - It's very challenging for to go into non-alcoholic beer, because there's so many You're answering to different you have to have food safety plans, and it's just a lot more involved. - [Narrator] Now, Athletic's has the capacity to make making it one of the largest dedicated non-alcoholic breweries in the world. And with one San Diego and another underway, it over 1 million barrels per year. - This is a massive amount of growth and it represents a huge bet from Athletic that people are not just going to keep drinking non-alcoholic beer, but they're actually going to - [Narrator] Where Athletic Data from its direct-to-consumer sales helped guide its initial decision to build that first San Diego facility. - We were really following We right from the jump, in California in the Pacific Northwest, and so, we bought a brewery in 2020 to 2021 to meet that demand. - [Narrator] And DTC sales Athletic has that its beer - We had the option of in ways that alcohol had - [Narrator] In the US, alcohol - With Athletic, because we immediately listed on our website everything for sale that we were making. - [Narrator] In 2018, were direct to consumers, which let it gather actionable - So, we had really fast feedback loops on what kind of beer they liked, where they live in the country, what the purchasing patterns are, and that really informed our distribution and marketing strategy is like and can we build on that and what are we learning - [Narrator] Athletic found that 80% of its customers still drank alcohol, and more than 75% are under 45 years old. - Historically, people instead of alcoholic beer. Now, they're drinking non-alcoholic beer in addition to alcoholic beer. And it suggests that as the market is going to get even bigger. - Really, I was kind someone who fashions themselves but like likes to work - [Narrator] So, as Athletic explored other distribution avenues, Shufelt brought it to from 5K races to Whole Foods. - The beer aisle is immensely competitive. It's really hard to get - [Narrator] But at Whole Foods, about 50% of the cooler space So, its customers are And the fact that Athletic gave it a much higher In June of 2018, just one month its beer was on Whole Foods' shelves. - As Athletics scaled up its production Whole Foods was able to - [Narrator] Now, Athletic has been Whole Foods' top selling beer across all beer for over a year, and wholesale distribution has In Athletics' first year In 2023, it sold more With Athletic beating out in non-alcoholic beer sales in stores for the past two years. But today, the non-alcoholic beer industry is becoming increasingly competitive. - The other question for Athletic is, how much non-alcoholic beer can The answer to that question is but it's not really clear If non-alcoholic beer turns that's not a huge deal for But Athletic exclusively and that's usually an but it's also a huge risk. - [Narrator] Athletic says it's focusing on getting customers to view its product as more than just a substitute for beer, especially since beer is less So, while Athletic's 75,000 are mostly places like about 5% of these places aren't - It could be anything from coffee shops to convenience stores things like that. Every year we branch out more and more, so we have our beer trucks going to stores they've never considered going to before. - [Narrator] Athletic says are buying Athletic in places they would normally have And if that number continues to grow, the chances of alcohol-free beer being just a trend could diminish. - They believe that there more opportunities for people than alcoholic beer. You wouldn't have an alcoholic beer for lunch when you're at work, or, you know, at 5:00 om when but you might drink a So, they think that there that just don't exist in other (upbeat music)