All right, where the more horsepower I'm given, the more my soul is ripped from my body. It's GTA. Alex has put together with a brand new twist. Anytime I crash into anything, the horsepower in the vehicle and it goes Alex has given me a bunch It says that there's a part in this board where eventually we can achieve Welcome to Space Ranger Wars, where the speed multiplier Starting big. Did that man just get I'm pretty sure that man just It looks more like a space Kia. Did that count? Oh, apparently it does. Alex has given me a few tips for this. The big tip is that anytime that counts as a crash, Like that. The little ringa ding sound means Now, you can see that-- Help. You can see that Alex has gone and has now created Starship Trooper We have aliens versus human beings. Now, does that count It did count. Okay, so even that counts. All right. All I have to do is weave move through the guy in a spin cycle, who's probably vomiting out Then go around the Tokyo That's normal. We have a giant firefight in the middle. How am I supposed They're blocking the entire roadway. I don't think there's any way We're going to go right. There we go. Yay. Now, I'm noticing the floor is changing. Did that floor-- oh, God. No. No, no, no. Stop, stop, stop. Now I understand how this works. When the script kicks in, and I have to deal with In other words, I can't cheat it. I can't basically take and just run his script out. Oh, epic dodge. I was going to say, Now I'm screwed because I had-- Actually, because the brakes They don't run on horsepower, I have to mention something too. Alex was so proud of this that he had to tell me. He actually built me a working Now, you may be asking yourself like, why did you pick It handles corners really well, so I figured if I was going to be taking maybe I would be able to handle Look at that right there. Oh, squirming right around the alien. No big deal. Don't really want to touch that. Then we go through the carousel Now I have to-- What is this? Oh, it's rotating. Now, as I understand it, sometimes I'm going to want No, God. No, no, no. Oh, God. I was hitting and forward slightly of the side of the board like a cannon. I'm going the left side. Bam, right there. No big deal. Swinging it wide. Watching out for the-- What are they, It's like the motorcycle Oh my God, you have no idea how little-- Did that guy just take I'm pretty sure some dude just It was no big deal. I'm going to swing around the aliens. Now we're going to get No, that was awful. All right, Alex, touche. God, that looks like a bad idea. I'm absolutely trying this. War, what is it good for? Probably crushing my will to live. I now have a four. I took a vehicle that corners if you think about it, Even if I do take a crash, How did I go like 400 miles an hour? Is it going off the weight of the car? Oh, I just thought about something. It's an increase of a thousand horsepower. A thousand horsepower like this than the giant other vehicle. I think that means the more insane the boost is going to be. I feel like I just made but it doesn't matter. through the very first challenge Honestly, like driving I've been practicing It's really not that big of a deal. Oh, yes. Did I just get shot? Yes, I did. Oh my God. A thousand horsepower on this is no joke. It's like when you go &quot;What do you want to be when you grow up?&quot; You're like, &quot;I want to be an astronaut.&quot; They're like, Yay. Now, I'm going to drown. This was the worst choice I've ever made. I'm never picking Okay, let's go with something heavier. Now, my big question is-- Okay, One of the questions I have is, can I cheat this by jumping just Every time I see that guy twisting it blows my mind. is to jump over my problems It appears to be contact driven, No. it does not trigger the script. If I jump and then I land it, If I get hit with a gun or a bullet, or some dude just skidding his motorcycle that is the type of drifting I don't know what that is. That's when you drift so now you're just sliding Don't you do it. Don't you do it. Remember how I said that I figured it wouldn't get shot quite as fast out of the railgun of life? I seem to have been mistaken, that was really fast. It was so fast that I could not get No, no, no. I'm fine. No, I'm not fine. I almost got saved by my own momentum. Oh, God, no. Yes. Oh my God, yes. I've never loved aliens That alien legitimately just saved There was no way Ah, don't shoot the car. No, no. Oh, my tires are not in the ground. It's fine. It's fine. I'm fine. Alex said that all four tires I have two tank treads, What does that count as? Does that mean I'll be like all parts of the tank tread Where am I even supposed to go? Where is the end of the spaghetti? Oh, here we go, okay. The fact that Alex can put Spielberg movie in order to ruin my life, is in itself its own amazing achievement. I never thought anyone would put Okay, what is going on here? There's some teleporters. Okay. All right. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Oh, what? Oh my God. That's the hamster wheel. What is this cursed nightmare? I have to make it across this. I see what you're supposed to do. There's no way you can do it with eventually, Basically, what I have to do is crash let it fire, and then it vomits me, and we get to the next part of the track. Okay, very ingenuitive, Alex. Thread the needle, speed mile to 10,000 horsepower. I've got 69 seconds to complete this. That's great. God, is this a floor-- No, no, no. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. I've fallen down here Oh, God, this is awful. Oh, you can't. I have to jump because he put He's evolving. You can't stop me, Alex. I'm going to cheat this. There. I don't know I think it's probably too many, and I'm not going to be able to make it, but at least I can see Then you have to go around, Then there's a couple I'm going to want a slender car for this. Then, what's the choice? Was it left or right? Looks like it all goes the same way. This one is more but there's nothing You go the right-- Never mind It's a teleporting thing in the middle. No, oh my God. The distance. We're picking a new car. We're picking this supercar. Here's the plan. Since this thing is timed, I need something that goes really fast, but I needed to go fast otherwise it's just going to end We're going to go ahead and use this. Plus, it's real low to the ground. It actually goes underneath the gunshots. This is like 100%-- I was going to ask It's pretty bad. Out of the way Dollar I don't have time for your 99 cent antics. Get out of the way. I'm not 100% sure, but I'm pretty sure that an alien and that's what caused me and ruined my whole run. God, that thing in a distance is amazing. This is the part that constantly You dying just killed me, alien. No, no, no. Yes. Saved. Oh. Oh, well, that was enough to probably destroy You know what? Come one. Come on. Okay, I've got all the patience. I've got all the time. Oh, no, no, no. Just aim for something, Grey. I never thought Oh, God. No. This plan is working. Basically, my plan is, and I know the horsepower I just aim for a wall and hope an hour removes all of my forward There we go. There we go. Okay. ramp over the ramp, and hit the obstacle. Bump, ramp, beautiful. All right. Thread the needle. 10,000 horsepower, 69 seconds. You got it. Here we go. This car is pretty good on this surface. I actually like this because it works Just take the corners, Oh, yes. Oh, we've got plenty of time. This is great. I think we're going to-- Oh, no. Well, the script triggered, but it didn't really matter Okay, thread the needle, 69 seconds. Come on, baby, let me have it. Here we go. I was going to say, I don't really know how long it takes to reset, but whatever. Through this. Through the death walls. I don't even know what these are. They're just there to make me It's like, &quot;Grey, I'm like the last day of my life. No, it's just Wednesday. I'm like, &quot;Yes, it sounds Whatever day is the day that Alex makes a new board is the last day of my life. This way I don't have to slow Eventually, but squeeze through here, Oh, yes, Here we go, and then a little bit-- This is happening, right? Okay. Teleporter, not a big deal. Oh, my God the board teleport-- No, Come on, baby. Focus. Commitment. Shear force of will. All of the things that John-- we have that I don't, but what I do have is a high pain Oh, God. We're making this happen. We're making this happen. Nice turn. Okay. Oh my God. Oh my God, I didn't expect to take that. Quite so sharp. We're at the point where I can get The space ranger part, no big deal. This area, look at this. No big deal. Now I'm screwed, but it's fine, I was going to say, I'll be fine and I wasn't. I feel like this isn't a car that shouldn't be able to do it, but oh my God, this thing is sliding. Oh, yes, the struggle is real. Oh, the struggle is pain. Oh, I got the timing down now. This is looking pretty good. Oh, it's happening. It's happening right now. It's going to be on the left. Yes, yes. Okay, stop. Now, we're going to wait I should still have plenty of time so I should have plenty of time. Now, these are not teleporting. Just go around them, then through the windmill, Yes. Oh, hamster bee wheel. How much time do I have left? Apparently, not very much. Is that 100,000 horsepower? Okay, whatever. Oh, God, 100,000 horsepower. Go through the teleporter. I have to go. I have to show you guys You have to sit here and wait but this gives you an idea and then you have to run Now you're literally driving but it's moving as fast almost This is incredible. It's like playing Simon, Oh, I'm starting to go a little slow here. If you go too slow, you start to eke and then it starts pulling you downward. Oh, my God. This is probably one of the most-- No, One of the most diabolical I cannot believe How long do I have to do this for? Oh, God, no. Oh, God, no. Oh, wow. We do have a checkpoint, I've been doing the hamster and I tried to pan around. I can't do it now because I'll just I can't see an end. Oh, they disappear I think you have to ride the hamster wheel until you get to the next checkpoint. This is more like a survival wheel. Day 25 of being on the torture I still have no clue Did I just murder a bird? Does that count? Does that count as a crash? I love how everything but for some reason, I could have sworn I hit that bird. It's coming Oh my God, no, no, no. Oh, I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm so dead right now. In case you're wondering, I'm about to [?] Right on the roadway. I have a goal. That pink plat-- Oh, no. 90th time's the charm. What I was trying to say is, see that platform right I'm almost sure I don't know if there's an exit, like when you're on the highway some sort of airport terminal. What do I do? Do I just get off here? Do I go through it? What happens? Was I supposed to make a right or a left? Oh, there's another one coming up here. I'm just going to hope this is it. Oh, it's a curve. I know what to do now. Whenever I can see the end See, this is, is the board that we've already completed. That was the multiple-choice board. It's this one coming up and if I remember correctly, it's an L-turn that goes Right here. Get off. There we go. What have we got now? What is this? A space monkey and a checkpoint. Backup. Here we go. Hey, jackpot. All right. What else do you have? What is this? You have one second How many horsepower have I got now? It doesn't actually say. Oh, wow, he legitimately made a roadway Here's what we're going to do. Same thing. I'm going to line this up. We're going to back into this guy Go. One second to drive. Oh, God. I guess we have a winner. Now I know that infinite horsepower Anyway, folks, Till the next time,