My name is Sayce Holmes-Lewis. I was first assaulted by Since then, I've been This is how police racism works. People don't really to be stopped and pulled over in your car, and being followed by officers, and your heart's beating, People don't really understand where you think, potentially, if something goes wrong I've been dealing with for a long time, but also personally too. But all my views and expressions are based on my personal experience. I was assaulted at age of 14, just coming home from I was at the train station, on the train, and a police officer came onto the train and told me to get off I questioned him and said, &quot;Look, what am I supposed to And when I walked up to him, assaulted me, punched me, hit me twice in the abdomen with his dragged me with the all the way down the platform, two flights of stairs, because of public outcry Never told me what I was Went home to press charges was thrown out by the the criminal justice system And we had eyewitness and CCTV evidence too. But that changed my whole outlook and feeling towards policing. I saw that adults weren't That manifested itself through anger. Because that was the only So, after the assault, age 14, I experienced over 30 stop But it was always the same language. &quot;You look like a criminal.&quot; &quot;Look at the clothes you're wearing.&quot; &quot;Why are you in the area?&quot; &quot;This area is known for drugs and criminals, such as yourself.&quot; It's just the way in the And it made me feel like a criminal, even though I wasn't involved I was literally at the who came to contact me, And that just made me like less than human. And for some people, there's So, the London Gangs Matrix was born after the the shooting of Mark Duggan. And the Gangs Matrix of predominantly Black males that were seen to be part of gangs or organized crime in London. But many people on this list They might have been family acquaintances, but they were on this list. And this information was used a large number of young for things that they There were people on and part of that, but however, And a lot of people on that Gangs Matrix, on that database, had with other agencies, such It was sharing information about people who weren't and using that to decrease and opportunities within But this is also linking that to the criminalization of Black youth and dehumanizing Black youth and actually creating a stereotypical And that is attributed to But there are gangs all backgrounds in London. But again, it seems to on Black deviants, on Black criminality. Stop and search is a police power which is used to stop might be potentially committing a crime or may have committed a crime. And it's used under one of three sections routinely in communities. PACE, Section 1 of PACE 1984, which is the Police and which allows police to stop people based on reasonable doubt. Another one that's commonly used is Section 23 of the Misuse of Drugs Act. This is something which is routinely used in our communities, especially to stop them and to detain with the purpose of carrying And that is used, been used There are people that are consuming drugs in affluent areas, but in the way that some are being policed in some of our areas. Another one, which is very which is a police power which is used when violence is anticipated in certain areas or certain boroughs. This can be used to stop anybody When we talk about suspicion and we're talking about those seem to go out the window Many people are not They're against the way and the way that it makes them feel and the legacy of that stop and search. When my grandparents came here in the '50s, '60s, '70s, '80s, sus law was literally If they thought you looked And that came derived from which was used to actually and travelers and people And that was revamped in But it's still being used to really criminalize and oppress large volumes of working-class people based on their demographic There's a real lack of and that causes a lot of the trauma and reinforces a lot of the and the trauma that we face as Black Britons and the So it does make it difficult. But most of the officers And they want to make and they want to reinforce And that shouldn't be the way forward. And often, many of these searches end up with no further action. It's not really an effective tool. 78% of stop and searches, With only about 8% So that tells you within which needs to be used based on evidence and reasonable grounds and not just on a hunch. My response to those Black children being it just showcases the issue that we have that officers and adults to do something so intrusive. And I keep using the word is a driver for the especially with a lack And we don't access enough mental health and therapy because Black it's seen as a sign of We have a real racially motivated outlook towards young people But also the adultification of young people within those areas. It just, it shouldn't happen. We talk about young Black boys in education that may have growth spurts. You know, 6-foot-4, 13. There's a real fear around the A Black man. And that's something that's You go back to Margaret Thatcher when she came to power in '79, '80. There was this fear of the the person who was going And these seeds have been sown over time. That's at the forefront And because they've in that thought process, Because if you don't have empathy, you don't have understanding then you don't care. And that's why I do what Because I know what it feels like to be assaulted by an officer. I know what it feels like to be adultified by police officers and within education. But until you actually feel something, experience it, you won't understand it. There needs to be guidelines in terms of how we then safeguard that young person. Whether it's justified or That's probably one of the that's happened to some people. It's happened to my cousin, last year at the hands of the TSG, just as he was delivering Ended up being in a cell, no phone call, disappeared for 17 hours. Like, he hasn't recovered from that. Many of these young people to recover from that. They But, quite simply, many of these officers, if that was their child, I don't think they would. So, the Territorial Support Group, TSG, they are an enforcement arm of the police, the Met Police Force in London. They have different vans, so blue vans, and they police events mainly, public-order events as well and protests and things like that. But before the TSG were which was the Special Patrol Group. Now, my uncles and grandparents, they were routinely policed by the SPG. So the SPG used to go around and literally just pick up Black boys, Black men, assault them, and then release them without charge. And it was all based on sus law, suspicion that they were criminals. So the SPG was disbanded, I And then we had the which is basically the same thing, just revamped with a new name. So they go into communities, targeting people that might or drug dealers, whatever it may be. But they use stop and search. And also Section 60, which is without reasonable grounds, The TSG undo a lot of the good that the police have in communities. They routinely come in, and it's enforcement before engagement. They don't want to ask questions. They go in heavy handed, and they ask questions after. They get to impart that violence without any recourse, And that doesn't help. And that's a real issue And that's where a lot of negative incidents where is used against people. So the TSG have a lot to answer for. We see young boys being knees being put on their chest whilst they're on the floor, Like, even after what If it was carried out if things were defused and deescalated, then we would still have some Even the other day, young 14, in Croydon, stopped by police. They thought that he was a criminal and just committed a crime, but they restrained him with both knees in the who was facedown on the floor. And he thought he was going to die. In the interview that he gave, he says, &quot;I thought I was going to die.&quot; And how do you counteract that trauma? Who's going to give Who's going to apologize to him? Because it's not going to be the Met. We talk about Joy Gardner, And these are not isolated incidents. So that means that there's within those processes, and the people that we have who are supposed to be enforcing the law, because these things Based on the evidence I've come across, a lot of the police-custody deaths in relation to Black people and the ones that I've come across have been highly suspicious. And, again, the evidence or not convict the officers and being charged isn't The criminal justice system protect a lot of officers I think that's one of the justice we deserve. There's a database of officers, hundreds of officers that And these names, a lot and they're protected. They probably shouldn't be because day-to-day by the media or anybody else. We've had, I think, 390 with the Met Police since 1990. And disproportionately, Black people are at the heart of that. And there have been a number of incidents. You know, with Kevin Clarke, He said, &quot;I couldn't breathe.&quot; Nobody listened to him. He ended up dying in police custody. And this is something Dalian Atkinson, who had issues with mental health but was killed at the hands of the police. Was Tased nine times, kicked which all attributed to his death. But that officer was actually charged, but only got eight years. That's not justice for me. That's not justice for the family. The fact is, this man abused his power. So did his colleagues, and no one stopped it. But these are state-assisted deaths, and I feel that they're There's a different set when it comes to the law. So we have to be consistent in terms of how we enforce the law. And until these things stop and criminals within the police force are going to prison for for taking people's going to change our There are many instances of where how we are received when and we are victims of crime, like we shouldn't be victims of crime or that it's not important. In relation to Richard Okorogheye, who went missing, who was then but when his mom went she complained and said, &quot;My son's gone missing, And one of the officers &quot;If you can't find him, how Just shows you the lack And even though we are victims in crimes, we're made to feel like criminals. And that's a lot of the racial bias and stereotyping that we have to face. But there are numerous incidents of Black people going missing or reporting it as a As a human being, how knowing now that that person and that was your response to his mom? There's got to be something going wrong for us to be attached to the police service. Especially the Met, but in other police there's a major failing Are we doing tests and personality tests? Are we doing tests around psychology, the psychology of people How are we measuring these things, and how are we recruiting the wrong people over and over again? Parts of the Met, parts of police forces are deeply insidious because And if colleagues are not then you're part of that problem. You're part of the issue, despite all the good work in terms of policing. But you have to call it out. There was a man called Gwenton Sloley, who was training the who was the subject of a targeted raid by a group of officers They literally stopped him So he took that to court and won the case, defamation of character And he was paid out hundreds of thousands for that mistreatment. But also, they tried to destroy him. And some officers weren't happy that someone from the was educating him around And that's the reality of that feel that they're above the law and they can do whatever they want, and that's a really scary thought, because how far has that And how far will it go in the future? The Met have got a massive because of the way they've consistently mistreated communities. And this is not just about This is about working-class in the way that the state many people across this world. An apology is going to be the first thing, but the actions have to You know, how do you build trust and build a relationship It's by listening, being empathetic, and actually working in conjunction and in collaboration That's the only way that a relationship that's never been there. I think the transparency needs to be across the board. If senior Met officers are they need to be gone, not Just gone. You need to get this insidious And you have to target individuals within that institution. And unfortunately, that's the because ultimately, more senior officers are still having these same outlooks and having these same conversations in rooms which are closed to us, and they're based on our stereotypes and racially motivated stereotypes. And until people change and have a more inclusive outlook then we can't solve these let alone an institution. So, I've been training the so it's over two years now. And this was after a stop and search that I experienced during And I saw these officers and a Black boy. And it didn't look right. 12 officers around two boys. So I stopped in my car, wound down my window, Are you all right? Everything all right?&quot; They shouted over, Thank you for checking in.&quot; I drove around the block, and then I saw the blue lights behind me, and I thought, &quot;Oh, let me And then they pulled me the Misuse of Drugs Act. And it was, &quot;You look like a criminal. You look like you just made a drug deal. The car you're driving.&quot; And then I realized They were 21, 22, 23. I was 37 at the time, and I said, you know what? I need to change this. I decided that, you know what? I'm going to train you how especially Black youth, and how to engage with them positively, because you've done and I had no solution. And then six weeks later, I was in New Scotland Yard around conscious bias, but also linked to stop and search. It's part of the solution. It's not going to be the solution. It's part of the solution and getting people to and that we all want safer communities. So if we treat each other and we work diligently in anti-racism and stand in anti-racism and challenge the systems then we have better police service, but a better society, better community. So, Mentivity is a mentoring organization that I founded in 2016. So we mentor young people for activity. Not just sports, not just music. We're talking about professional outlooks and saying, &quot;I can be a lawyer. I can be a doctor.&quot; It's about really signposting young people towards their passions and