&quot;Nuclear power!&quot; &quot;Nuclear power...&quot; &quot;NUCLEAR POWER&quot; &quot;Nuclear waste...&quot; &quot;Nuclear waste?&quot; &quot;Nuclear waste&quot; Ok. I need to show you something: This is a nuclear reactor built in 1962... &quot;The atomic power plant of the future...&quot; &quot;being developed by Argonne But it's not just any old nuclear reactor. &quot;This reactor is different in many supply some of our homes today with electricity...&quot; The biggest difference was the fuel they used to make electricity. This nuclear waste. &quot;Nuclear waste!&quot; &quot;Nuclear waste...&quot; &quot;Some kind of nuclear waste...&quot; &quot;Well sir, where should we dump this batch?&quot; When I think of nuclear waste, I think of that classic glowing green goo in yellow we end up with after all of the fuel is used up... of years because it's so dangerous. We fight even use nuclear because we end up with this it? And not near my house! And you're telling make electricity out of nuclear waste and it was that we would use this technology to build this &quot;By the year 2000 more than half the electric power But today, we're nowhere close to that. Instead it just piles up. But if this that our nuclear waste isn't clean energy resource and it's just sitting there technology as constantly moving forward but this that could change our energy future. to using nuclear waste to make electricity, to the clean energy future that we could have had. is about the people trying to bring that future back. &quot;Nuclear waste&quot; &quot;Nuclear waste problem...&quot; &quot;A concern about nuclear energy...&quot; &quot;There are concerns about emissions...&quot; &quot;Abundant power!&quot; &quot;We need clean energy!&quot; &quot;Energizes the city...&quot; &quot;We are coming up with new nuclear reactors -&quot; &quot;that will guarantee a plentiful supply &quot;and the world for centuries to come.&quot; I first got obsessed with this topic because a video journalist Johnny Harris called me on a video that he was making &quot;Let's do this. I'm going to go nuclear energy. What are the events &quot;And I kind of want you to do a future for this technology and So I started to dig into it! And as part of I got invited to go visit one of the largest and Here we are! This is Argonne National Laboratory. that they're doing and they have been doing Hold on. Do you recognize that name? Yeah. This was the same national lab old nuclear waste recycling reactor. So we go on this incredible tour, my god I'm going to be so over-prepared to talk with me are these two people from Oklo, which is reactors. And at the end of the tour, I'm sitting says something that just short circuits my brain: &quot;So we're actually working with Argonne closely on how to recycle existing nuclear waste in the US. There's enough used fuel to power Wait... I'm sorry... what? There is enough used fuel in to generate power for the &quot;There's enough used fuel - meaning nuclear waste - in the US to power the country for 150 years.&quot; it's some fake math. Like maybe technically but like we could never really use it, Is it like when they say, you know for like thousands of years if we could yeah, we can't, we don't know how to do that. &quot;Yeah! We just don't have the facility, a commercial facility to do so. Experts differ on the exact number of the nuclear waste we have now based on technology that we've already built. But waste, especially if you reuse it more than once, time that the waste after all of that's done is to store our nuclear waste. The problems are cost Here we go! *Knocking* By the time I got to DC to talk Hello! Good morning! Welcome to our studio! We have all this nuclear waste, right? was a way that you could actually &quot;So you can use nuclear waste You can recycle nuclear waste, yes. And I dived all the way into this in a going to be on my channel by the time we air this one. This is that video. To understand except solar comes from spinning a turbine. *whispers* &quot;It's magic...&quot; Most of the time, inside a power plant, what you're really doing is you're heating up a liquid The most common way to do that is still burning also use liquid that the Earth already heated up apart inside special rocks and make them And the special hot rocks are uranium. &quot;Uranium&quot; &quot;Uranium 235&quot; &quot;Uranium&quot; &quot;Uraaaaaaanium fever&quot; But only a really small part one percent, is a kind of breakable uranium &quot;Uranium-235.&quot; The number refers to the number goes through a process called &quot;enrichment,&quot; which less useful Uranium-238. By the time that's all finger up to your first joint, that's about the go into these long metal rods that I got to see reaction. So you fire a bunch of free atoms at very unstable atoms and throws off a couple other more uranium nearby and then more and more, a chain split a little mass turns into energy which makes spins the turbine, which generates electricity... tada! broken enough of that special uranium that the fuel is now considered high level nuclear waste. little bit of leftover 235 and a bunch of very That ionizing radiation in large doses is the bad our tissues and our DNA in often deadly ways. And for an insanely long time. We're talking hundreds which is - to put it mildly - a problem. &quot;We've got to find better and &quot;Waste that can remain radioactive for centuries, Right now, most nuclear waste dry casks that look like this to material inside. Those dry casts are meant to years which is what we're talking about here. So about what to do with nuclear waste. There are are already doing that - Johnny and I got into the in lots of other countries there are a lot of dry nuclear power plants. So to summarize: We take then we store it basically forever. This is the Now listen to the analogy that to describe how stupid this fuel cycle would be: &quot;Would you say that using the 235 using the cream and throwing away the milk?&quot; &quot;Exactly.&quot; The key is to figure out how still useful from the real waste that's not. Turns testing nuclear waste recycling in I'm just gonna go right on up and they're It was as a whole thing. I had to send them before they'd let me on the tour In order to go into this place that I can't How do I look? Let's do it. Luckily, Argonne itself has actually published here's what they're doing inside up the nuclear waste into little pieces then they when they run electricity through that vat it from the rest of the junk and pushes it across stuff on the other side. Then they make new fuel in a reactor. And it's not just possible to do that electricity but also reducing how long that waste materials that last the longest, from hundreds of years, which is a much easier time frame to store nuclear fuel cycle that looks like this: You mine the useful stuff, then you use it again and maybe you put it in much shorter term storage that's fuel cycle and there are lots of variations. But for example are already doing this, and they say imported fuel it conserves uranium and it reduces makes sense. So what happened in the United States? &quot;Tonight I want to have an unpleasant talk with you...&quot; In 1977, President Jimmy Carter announced of nuclear war. And that meant stopping all nuclear we separated out during the recycling process. a highly radioactive element that was seen as So President Jimmy Carter stopped all nuclear nuclear power program can be sustained without away from the kinds of reactors that could handle kinds of reactors that exist today called &quot;light recycling, other countries didn't. The ban on to slow the threat of nuclear proliferation, so then companies, had invested in the kinds of we have now. Today, the main claim is that nuclear economical. And that's true, compared to using new incentive did anyone have to recycle their fuel? of wondering whether global conflict will cut off clean energy in as many ways as possible as fast technology and a dream that we left behind. &quot;We are not far off from it. that we're dreaming of, that we hope can has already been demonstrated before and There is a lot to figure out but if we can recycle nuclear waste, about what we as humans are capable of: Splitting atoms, sure! But I mean Changing our minds, and overcoming and our ingenuity to make other people's lives a &quot;And this of course is just the beginning. Not only will the rise and fall of the tides and imprison the Huge If True is an optimistic show about using something that you believe in the best thing that you do subscribe, let me know I'd love to meet you