amna: Stephen Colbert has been making America laugh for decades. Since 2015 on CBS' &quot;The late Show with Stephen Colbert.&quot; Over the years, his wife, Evie Mcgee Colbert, has often gotten a mention and makes regular cameos on the show. And now, the couple is sharing the ingredients that make their partnership work, especially in the kitchen. Their new cookbook, &quot;Does this taste funny?,&quot; is out now and we met up recently to talk food, family and politics for our arts and culture series, canvas. At New York City's porchlight bar -- Stephen: I've never been interviewed in a bar before. This is nice. Evie: What have we got here? Amna: What is this dessert? Over a spread of southern specialties -- Stephen: Biscuits and honey. Amna: Stephen and Evie Mcgee Colbert open up about their shared love of their shared hometown, Charleston, south Carolina, where they first met in their 20's and that inspired this cookbook together. You say in the book that you guys live in the kitchen. I'm curious how that works. Does someone take the lead? Is there like a chef? Sous chef situation? Stephen: Every family in some ways, like, you know, the whole thing about like we're talking about kitchen table issues and central kitchen table. We're always hanging out there like everybody does. Evie: One of us is a little bossy. Stephen: One of us. One of us enjoys cooking more than the other one does. That's all. I don't think I'm bossy. I'm more enthusiastic about it. Evie: Yeah, we say in the cookbook. Amna: So there's a chef, sous chef vibe? Or no? Evie: No, we're not good together. Amna: How dare I. I apologize. Evie: You know what? The cookbook changed that before that, we didn't cook together. But then, of course, we had to write a cookbook together. And it turns out, we do it pretty well, I think. Amna: The book, a compendium of everything from seafood specials and party food to desserts and drinks, started coming together during covid. The colberts, along with their three mostly-grown children, were locked down together in their Charleston home. The family turned their focus to a joint project, compiling recipes of the food they loved and the stories behind it. It feels like it's as much about your family history in this book as it is about the food itself. Evie: Absolutey. Very fair. Stephen: Yeah, it's about our -- yeah, it's about the lives we lived growing up there. Not just the food. Evie: Well, and when we started, we gathered up recipes that we have fed our kids for years, but we also reached out to family members. And one of the things that was fun for me is I worked on it with my mother, so we would go hunting. She couldn't remember. Like, for example, her pickled shrimp recipe is in the cookbook. I think we made it for her four times and she kept saying, that's not quite right. Stephen: The book is dedicated to Evie's mom. Not just because she was a great hostess and a cook of her own, but because we were writing this book near the end of your mother's life. Evie: She wasn't well, so I would be with her, you know, a medical appointment or at the hospital or something. And it was something else to talk about, which was really nice for her and nice for me. And, you know, I think neither one of us sort of knew where we were headed in the future, but it gave us a present moment to be together. Amna: Food is at the heart of major moments for the couple, including the moment they first met. You've told about the moment you saw Evie. You knew. You knew she was the one. Did you cook for her? Is that how you help to woo her? Evie: Oh, no. Stephen: Actually, I don't think I was very good. Like, there's a recipe in Charleston that, you know, it's a shrimp dip, but we call it shrimp paste because everything in Charleston has to have an old name. And so, my family made shrimp paste and our recipe was terrible. And the first thing I ever made for Evie was shrimp paste, which is not the most attractive-sounding dish. Evie: You use canned shrimp. Stephen: And, it was terrible. Evie: There were budget constraints. Amna: The first dish Evie cooked for Stephen? Her family's famous cheese biscuits. Stephen: Her family would make thousands and thousands of cheese biscuits and distribute them around. Evie: It's a family recipe. My mother did it every Christmas. All year long, they were in the house. It was her go-to. Someone's coming over. You put a plate of those out. Just like our first date. I wasn't ready. Stephen: So, I went into the bar with her dad. Evie: You got to make him wait a little. Stephen: Lovely to meet you. What is your name? Amna: The book isn't their first collaboration. That came during pandemic lockdowns when Evie jumped in to help Stephen host &quot;The late Show&quot; from their South Carolina home on Sullivan's island. Stephen: We called it the Ed Sullivan's island theater. Amna: Was that was your first professional time working together? Stephen: Yeah. So, we were terrified. I was terrified. Amna: When she said yes, it was. Evie: It was. It really was. And there were very funny moments that now are funny at the time were slightly stressful, where he would turn to me and say something like, I can't hear Tom Hanks. And I would say, I don't know what to do. Stephen: She was my crew on the couch with a headset and all these wires around her, like, I don't know what button to push. The polls are showing we won by numbers you've never even heard of. We got smeventeen percent, one hundred didgeridoo. Amna: Back in his studio, Stephen Colbert is back to doing what he does best, bringing levity to a heavy time and sometimes heavy topics. There's such toxicity around the discourse sometimes. Do you find it's harder today to be funny about what's going on in the world? Stephen: It's a gift to us that we get to go out there and do the jokes for the audience, and we get to realize that we're not crazy, and that these things that are driving us crazy or making us anxious are also resonating with the audience. But, you know, toxicity itself is worth making fun of. Like, that's just the fact of how bad things are is something you have to make fun of. Amna: Yeah. Is it the kind of thing where he leaves it all at work? Or do you talk about these things? Evie: And we talk, and unfortunately, we talk about it all the time, yeah. We've always been news junkies. But, yeah, we do talk about it. Stephen: &quot;Pbs news hour,&quot; number one. Amna: He's long blended current events and comedy, but this S ar with this particular election cycle, Colbert says there's just a lot more to talk about. Stephen: Right now, what's interesting is no matter what happens with the election, it's something new. You know, the excitement of, you know, as much as I admire Mr. Biden, is that the excitement that there is a change in this changes is as good as a holiday sometimes. And there's something new to talk about. One of the jokes that I did after the switch off between Biden and vice president Harris, was that in the monologue, I just found myself dancing around. I was just kind of excited, and I just turned to the camera and said it was first thing in my mind. I said, this is the dance of a guy who gets to talk about something new for the first time in five years. Amna: His own politics lean left. He refused to even say former president trump's name for a couple of years. Do you have red lines like people you won't talk to, like, would you have former president trump on the show? Stephen: I've had him before and he's kind of boring. So, no. No, I don't like to have people on the show who I don't think are going to be honest agents of their own ideas. Politicians always represent an idea. So if I think a politician is disingenuous, not to point out Mr. Trump specifically because there are many politicians I wouldn't want to talk to that I think, do not honestly represent what they actually believe, but are rather just playing to a crowd. So, that's just no fun. Amna: &quot;The Late Show&quot; on CBS is number one among all late-night shows, some of which are struggling with a changing landscape. Audiences may come to Colbert for the laughs, but seem to be staying for more. &gt;&gt; We have to learn more about trust and peace -- and learning about each other. Amna: Rare moments of engaged convnvsation, like this from his recent interview with Nancy Pelosi. &gt;&gt; As you can see with the protest out here, that answer is unsatisfying to some people. Amna: There were these pro-palestinian protesters and she said I cannot hear what they are saying. And you took a moment to make sure she heard the questions that they were asking. Why? Stephen: Well, I want to be respectful to my guests, but I promised the people who had protested during the first act of the interview with Nancy Pelosi that I would ask the question if they would sit and listen to what she had to say. There's no way to move on from a subject unless you address the subject. Amna: That feels like something you may have learned in 30-plus years of marriage. Stephen: Yeah. It is good to address the subject. Evie: And listening, you know, and I think what you did so well at that moment, that's what conversation is about. We have to listen to the issue that is bothering someone so you can respond to it. I think that's also in our marriage. You have to listen and then be able to respond. And I think we do. We've managed to figure out how to do that. Stephen: Sorry, I missed some of that. Amna: More collaborations and laughs to come as the two run a production company together. Stephen and Evie Colbert, thank you so very much. Such a pleasure. Evie: Thank you so much. It's been lovely. Appreciate it. Stephen: Cheers. Amna: Cheers. And we have more from Stephen and Evie Colbert online. Taking some lessons learned while cooking together, they discuss the art of an apology and how people who disagree can find a way to get along.