It's one of the greenest countries An El Dorado of river and forest Suriname in the Amazon and a land of illegal gold panels. For nature lovers, this little country in the image In the heart of the Amazon, to plunge deep into this endless forest The Amazon is a boundless universe. It never ends, You advance and it keeps on going. Fabian Vas is a Buru, a white descendant He has decided to capture the beauty My job is traveling the length to fix the country's Foreigners don't even know It's located on the northern coast between Guyana, French Guiana, and Brazil. South America. Traveling in Suriname The infrastructure is poor You have to use the rivers to get around. That's why traveling here It makes the country interesting. This is a land of adventure. Fabian loves the wilderness photography, He has made a name for himself flanked by the Amazon on one side and the warm waters When you're a stranger the most important thing to do Before I start shooting in the village, I have to thank him for allowing me You have to respect the people. Explain to them exactly It's normal, you're on their territory. For Fabian, his adventure In a few months, 12 Photos to the Glory of Suriname. His photo reportage begins then plunges into the limitless forest where the young photographer's life I was panning for gold out I needed money. It was a great experience, It was quite something. I wouldn't sleep. I'd be there in my hammock afraid I was living in an encampment in a tent. A canvas tarp and just a plastic sheet to protect me That was my shelter. Everything was dirty, and polluted. I was eating poorly, drinking bad water. It was not a healthy life. One day there was a police raid. When the police came into the camp, I grabbed all my stuff, and my papers, I was in such a bad state That was a decisive moment. I knew I couldn't go on I was afraid the police would catch me That's when I realized It was momentous, a staggering moment. Even now, when I think back on it. Gashes in the brown earth polluted This is the El Dorado Fabian is a born-again ecologist When I look back on my life before, I feel good. I'm a better person I've done some shady things in the past. Now, with my photography, I'm out in the forest, It's just all positive energy, Fabian is traveling up the Suriname River, one of the main arteries It hasn't rained in weeks, In the dry season, the inland villages from the rest of the world by the rapids. I love traveling like this. With no roads to get When you leave the city, Then you have to take a pirogue When the river is low, Help the boatmen through the rapids. Sometimes you even have This is the land of the Maroons. The descendants of slaves more than 200 years ago The Maroons learned a lot from the Indians Now they have their own way of life. This is a traditional gateway designed There must be a village close by. Hello, ma'am. Fine, thanks. I'm looking for the person You have to go back towards the river. -Is it far? Hello. They told me Yes, right here, it's me. I'm a photographer, Yes, sure, no problem. What's the next stage in the construction? Once I finish hollowing out the trunk, I'm going to burn it Then I'll lay some palm fronds then light them. After that, I have to wedge it open When that step is finished, Then I'm going to fasten the planks You can't find pirogues Only in the north of Suriname People here don't have cars. The only way to ship things around Anything that we have to transport That's why the villages Before, I hunted to eat. I destroyed nature Back then, I was a polluter. I didn't realize The Amazon is a boundless universe, There was always something further ahead. You advance and it keeps on going. Brokopondo Lake, a vast reservoir of fresh water A parcel of the sunken Amazon. In the 1960s, they built a dam to provide electricity The bauxite mines, Those are islands over there. They used to be hills. You have to imagine that this used to be With the dam, the water rose The hills became islands. It's very mysterious. The trees are underwater here. This has been a sunken forest Nature has stood still here in Brokopondo. When the tropical forest was submerged no one imagined Fabian has come to meet the men who are mining A handful of intrepid Brazilians, If the water is clear, We can see what we're doing, Often when you're down mine begins to drift, you get distracted. This is not good. You have to stay focused because if you let your mind wander, The treasure of Brokopondo is down Mahogany, angelique, and amaranth, millions of cubic meters As a general rule, logging trees here However, in this lake, All the trees are dead. The tropical forest is We have to protect it. Here the wood has been underwater It's not your ordinary lumberjack He has to handle the chainsaw underwater while breathing through an air hose Tom Wu, the Brazilian has arrived The long immersion in the water and of a very high quality. As hard as rock, The lumber from Brokopondo is some The lumberjacks have worked logging the sunken treasure I'm an adventurer, Being there, I really enjoy it. It makes me happy. Adventure, adventure, and more adventure. When I was young, I think it's a very old Siri The nurses or the doctors take a plane We always watch Siri and I already knew I always wanted to become a doctor, I really like this Siri. It's like flying doctor. I think this is pretty close to my dream. I'm the flying doctor. I deliver everything. The post and sometimes rice Now we don't have it For the tribes of the Amazon, the doctor always arrives by air Roseanne Peuscher, 35, She works for Medische Zending, She crisscrosses the Amazon by plane, helping the communities isolated I did my specialization For that, I went to Ethiopia. I always love traveling I've been to India for a long time. Roseanne has always preferred to a comfortable consulting room This is her profession and her passion, and it has made her a kindly, Roseanne visits the village of Apetina on the shores of the Tapanahoni River The village practical nurse When a child has an attack, The parents have to know He doesn't like doctors. He's been in the hospital too long, He went to the city for an emergency, Now he has come back, However, we see him every time because we want to know how he's doing. He's my favorite kid in the village. They're waiting With her portable ultrasound device, of future mothers here You already love your baby, right? I'm going to show it to you You wanted a boy? Do you see those three lines If it's a boy, they'll usually be We've just figured out that it is a girl. Now I'm looking for amniotic fluid If it's not enough, because she doesn't have a big belly. This young woman risks having problems Roseanne has to persuade the parents for the last few weeks before the birth. Sometimes they don't go because they don't have a place They don't have the funding, Sometimes in these areas, because the people we advise We understand they are staying here She knows and she's going to talk Roseanne won't be back for a month. The only way this future mother is with the doctor's plane. When the river is at its lowest, it takes weeks by pirogue For Roseanne and Andy, her pilot, the job means endless takeoffs Andy, also Dutch, to become a pilot for MOF, a Dutch association that uses its fleet in the world over. These are serving together This is a benefit for both They do the medical stuff. Each of us is doing our job, and we both served the people of Suriname I think it's more than 50 years. Sometimes we talk, sometimes I sleep. Sometimes I think about my life This a very good place and the future a head of you Also what happened in the day, Did you make the right decisions Everything passes by. Three-quarters in Paramaribo, the capital. This is where the headquarters Roseanne's medical mission is located. This is my ultrasound, and this is just material Some medication, Every time they set out, The doctor's plane It's a veritable lifeline between the capital Today's trip is going Then we will stay at Paloemeu and we will go to Tabto The village of Kawemhakan is an hour in the region of Upper Maroni. This community of Guyana Indians lives in the region This is where the borders start No one ever comes here of the wildcat gold mines. Since the 1970s, Medische Zending in each Amerindian village to dispense primary health care Also to make sure Hi, Meep. Meep, the village chief Some of the patients I see them coming and going, However, sometimes it's very busy Building of the relationship. Some of the people are chronic patients, As the practical nurse, Like all village chiefs, He's a very important person He's a very good nurse. He's my support in bad times, He calls me sometimes for accidents and he knows what he's doing, I'm prescribing one pill per week. Yes, you like to laugh. Roseanne has a two-year-old son This has changed her status I'm five months pregnant, They like it very much because it makes me They think I'm more one of them and not a doctor who visits This work gives me great pleasure I keep active as long as I keep active. The first time I came here, because they are very shy but as they see you come back they see that you take an interest their families, and in their health. Then they open up a bit and you can talk more Roseanne has just received She has to cut short her consultations who's having problems in labor. It will be a 40-minute flight. Now we have an ambulance waiting If she is ready with the patients We have two very sick patients We're leaving here now There's an ambulance waiting It's a life-and-death situation, She doesn't know anything When they land, It seems that the baby is out of danger, Every year they carry out through the skies Don't worry. You'll come back. You may need an operation. Then you'll be able to come back. You'll have to be brave, okay? Do you want some water? It's time to go. If she wants to lie down, I think when you decide you also want to help people. In some countries, It's more useful than maybe in Holland. That's why we're here. In the middle of the Amazons, Here, the people just live day by day. They take life as it comes For me, that's a very valuable lesson that you should always appreciate I can contribute more Monique Pool is a heroine in her country because she is a defender the sloth. I think we humans are doing a lot I think this is the best thing we can do. We have to help these animals back I'm glad to be sort They are a symbol for me and of how important it is for us This animal always seems to be smiling, Its incredibly slow pace The sloth spends all its time Out in her yard, Monique is caring for a dozen sloths picked up Then she releases them Thanks to her actions, she was shortlisted We started ten years ago I went looking for my dog, and then I found a baby sloth. I then became involved Why were they in trouble? When there is a problem, all the other animals can fly away They will stay in the tree Monique's yard is a little Noah's Ark. A heaven for the more fragile creatures She also shelters porcupines, vulnerable endangered species Monique Pool's nickname is the Sloth Lady. Over the past ten years, Little by little, and they created a foundation, She may not be a biologist, but she has become one We don't know enough about the population. Only recently we found that the species the three-toad sloth, is only limited Before we thought We don't know all that much. Here at the coast, We even don't know That's why we're trying to research We work together with all researchers Four years ago, Monique carried out She had been alerted that about 10 animals but nothing went as planned. Monique filmed the whole sequence. This was in 2012, and we rescued a lot of animals only seven hectares. There were a lot of animals Almost 200 animals are on seven hectares The operator was very nice because he was looking but to push them onto other trees Two we found later were dead. However, most of them maybe scared but that was it. Monique also has another passion. About 40 kilometers up from the open sea, the estuary of the Suriname River is home This morning I have a special meeting They are right there. The Guiana dolphin is very difficult Twice a month at dawn, of this little sedentary school For ten years, and trying to see where they live, what they do during the day, see what they eat, and what affects them. They come, they look at you They go and swim, and sometimes they come or want to show off a new baby, and then the baby comes and shows itself, This is in the whole of South America Monique passes on her observations to French scientists studying They recognize the value of her work Since I was a little child, I wanted to become a biologist, I studied languages. This is still my passion from being a child and being able to do something for nature, SOS, sloths in danger. Every week, Monique gets dozens of calls to pick up stray animals all settings It's an emergency Maybe because they have dogs, They are afraid, Be careful though. Just one, get it close. We were able to catch him after we agreed I know how they behave so we were able Before I didn't know, and now I know so then it's easy This is a two-toed sloth, They're very likable animals. That's surely why Monique's work Thank you for bringing him. Today, Monique is going they picked up in town. These animals do not belong in the city, There's a human-animal conflict there. The best thing we can do for them that we know and where they can live for many years. Every animal we get, if it's healthy, She knows, she's like, open it. He's looking around It's looking where it's food, and where it can stay safe. This is his new home, Now he's back in the trees This is the most amazing moment because this is where they belong. Within a few minutes, you're not able to see them You know these little friends I have They're watching me, This is where they belong, you can see They love this. This is their home. This is the best moment. The best moment is when we can let it go back Monique has managed thanks to the Green Heritage Fund. She's planning to build a large refuge for sloths here in a few months in order to ease their return to the wild. What makes me want to protect this it's very beautiful. I think we humans need beauty as well. Not just beauty from humans but the beauty of nature. That's why we need to preserve it We need to have forests like this Monique came here at the top of the Voltz Berg dome. Someday she'll write her story. The story of a woman in love the Amazonian sloth. You just feel at peace here, This is where we belong. This is the most beautiful place