In June 2024, pharmacy chain Walgreens made a shocking They plan to close a significant number of stores. At this point, only 75% of stores bring in what is profits. The iconic chain is rapidly reducing its footprint, on the chopping block by 2027. This is just the latest effort by the struggling of CEOs, stagnating profits and its share price fall January and July 2024. In the Q3 report, CEO Tim Wentworth cited two reasons challenging trends in the pharmacy space. They don't have infinite time to stabilize this before But Walgreens problems are just the latest sign of Cvs has been closing stores all along. Rite aid is filing for bankruptcy. So what is happening to American pharmacy chains? How did Walgreens go from record highs to a bottoming And what does all of this mean for you? In order to better understand the headwinds facing two parts. First, there's front of store or retail. You know, your over-the-counter cough medicine, paper stuff. Then there's back of store or pharmacy. We'll get to that later. First, let's start where Walgreens of today looks very much the same as the It hasn't really evolved and adapted. When it comes to retail. Walgreens is in the midst of a Q3, a continuation of a rough few years for its retail The front of store offer, where the general merchandise good. It often doesn't look very good. The brands that they have aren't very interesting. The prices are often much higher than other yes, I'm here, but why bother paying over the odds. Every couple of years, I hear, here's our new plan for And then that doesn't work. And then they don't talk As inflation squeezes customers, chain pharmacies are dollar stores and big box retailers who offer larger pharmacies. Particularly our consumer is definitely pressed both ongoing inflation that we've seen, albeit at somewhat that they just have as we move forward. Now Walgreens realizes this is an issue and recently items. But it might be too little, too late. Because it's not just the economy that's changed, but Anybody with a pulse would know what's happening with movement with Amazon and Walmart getting better and They have better price points. Um, the delivery options are getting, you know, Another frequent pain point for retailers shrinkage or or theft. In an interview with The Wall Street as a factor in determining which stores would be Store experience has deteriorated with employee locations, as you know, locking the Gillette razors The problem is anti-theft measures aren't popular, as deter thieves, but it drives away paying customers. Locking things away behind cabinets is the biggest you could possibly make, because it just says to the place to shop. And that's just the headwinds up front. 8 million vaccines this year at the back of the store That's a health care business, right? That's not just putting pills in bottles. When it comes to back of house operations. Pharmacy and health services are Walgreens largest In Q3 2024, pharmacy sales made up 76% of Walgreens retail pharmacy revenue and 60% of the company's But that's been a declining business for Walgreens, reimbursement rates for pharmacy benefit managers or Pbm is a company that acts as an intermediary between Pbm started with the idea of being a claims processor. So when you bring a prescription to the pharmacy, the The role of PBMs has since expanded beyond just They also negotiate drug prices with manufacturers, prior authorization criteria, and decide which And I think where the traditional PBM pricing model concern is that the entity is being paid to manage typically benefit when drug prices increase and it The issue for pharmacies is PBMs have been shrinking generic brands over name brand, a move that helps the to make money. The FDA now estimates 91% of generic brands. Historically, pharmacies made more money on generic, Is that with the growth, particularly of the glp1 for has increased. And where pharmacies weren't making as much money on more pressure. Reimbursement pressure on the Currently, the three largest PBMs in the US are CVS Optum RX. These three companies alone manage almost prescriptions. And yes, you heard that right. Cvs owns its own PBM. Caremark, which is owned by CVS and CVS stores. Caremark can set whatever rate it wants with itself Whereas with Walgreens they're just a straight up However, the growth of PBMs has attracted federal pharmacies as the Federal Trade Commission recently PBMs, accusing them of illegally driving up drug So I think anytime we can shine a light on that, put knows what they're paying for and why they're paying And so at the end of the day, people can afford the And that's another thing, what's happening to all the What happens to communities who rely on these Pharmacy closure can be detrimental, especially in Creating something called pharmacy desert, or a place The definition of this depends on several things the neighborhood, including the median income of a ownership of that neighborhood. According to the National Institutes of Health, desert. An NIH survey of census tracks identified over with the majority being in urban areas. There are neighborhoods in the South Side of Chicago area. You might have a CVS next to a Walgreens next to Those neighborhoods are wealthier, they're whiter, and don't have pharmacy. So it's not even on average, deserts. Pharmacy closures predominantly affect low income urban Medicaid plans with lower reimbursement rates compared If that is really a rightsizing, they would be closing the neighborhoods, the counties, including rural areas Both CVS and Walgreens acknowledged pharmacy deserts when closing stores. Walgreens CEO told investors, we are the only thing deserts, and our goal is not simply to be the last one Our goal is actually to find new ways to work Cvs CEO Karen Lynch also commented on this topic We are also committed to making sure that there's not need access to medication. If it's a footprint. The argument that doesn't make where they're closing and it's not in the Of course, pharmacies aren't just for picking up Chain pharmacies offer health clinics, Covid testing, And it's not just the customers who are impacted. The pharmacist and nearby pharmacy staff who now have time where pharmacists are already staging walkouts corporate mandates. The problem is, the average American has almost no say meaning the solution largely falls on legislation to Regulating PBMs and potentially increasing most marginalized. Neighborhoods. So the FTC lawsuit we mentioned earlier there's already been movement on the state level. States obviously have a role. They can also regulate PBMs. They can also ensure that, for example, their Medicaid pharmacies. In a statement to CNBC, Walgreens stressed we share a healthcare in the communities we serve. Our priority is to ensure a smooth transition for our While painful for communities from a business solution to a lot of the issues these companies face. And we know it works because someone already did it. 11.3% same store sales increase at the front of the I mean, that's that's pretty impressive. What drives gains like that? Part of it was that they just had greater volumes at And I remember CVS has been closing stores all along. They expect to close up to 900 by the end of this of years ago. Other attempts to cut costs include Walgreens pulling Walgreens Q3 investor call. CEO Tim Wentworth gave investors ideas of where Health and beauty and women's health. It certainly hasn't taken advantage of very strong like premium beauty. It's allowed Ulta and Sephora and others to really eat arena. Unless pharmacies also means better pricing power when One light at the end of the tunnel is on the pharmacy Caremark. I mean, they have said, look, we recognize not sustainable. So Walgreens could get a new contract Now, on the consumer level, there's been an unlikely resurgence of independent pharmacies. It's true that independents close. They close at a much higher rate, but it's actually a So they're more likely to open in rural areas. They're more likely to open in neighborhoods of color chains aren't. In New York City, less than 1% of the population now 2023, only 15% of pharmacies were chains, meaning the businesses that were run out by the chain pharmacies leave. It definitely creates a business opportunity for an pharmacy and service, that area that needs it.