Today we're looking at the drums of This is a true classic and a surprise hit that It was also recorded entirely at home, While we'll be using the Syntakt, We made a sample pack with all the drum sounds which But we also show you how you can make these It's very straightforward and many of the Hello everyone, this is... This episode of &quot;Drum Patterns Explained&quot; And that's because we have to make one important To explain why we're going to listen Yes, it really is just this one bar rhythm Listen to the Hi-Hats. I'll turn down the tempo so The Hi-Hats aren't going 1-2-3-4 1-2-3-4 but 1-2-3 1-2-3 1-2-3. This means we need triplets. Here's another sequencer where we Kicks on the bottom, Hi-Hats on top. Normally each of these steps represents But I can actually change in relation to the main tempo. Here this feature is called &quot;division&quot;. But you also might encounter Ultimately you For example: A double multiplier makes This effectively doubles For Oxygene we need a 3/4 tempo multiplier. Watch closely. In the time the lower track goes through While the lower track needs the upper one only needs So let's shorten the upper Now you can see that they They always restart together This 3/4 tempo multiplier or 1/8T division is what we want on So let's apply that to a fresh pattern... and also shorten it to one bar - 12 steps. On Elektron sequencers here you can set the pattern So, good thing we cleared that up or else we would've By the way: If you want to read up We're starting to write which we're continually updating And the most recent one Jean Michel Jarre used the Korg Mini Pops 7 It's an all-analogue preset It has these incredibly charming vintage I already had a go at these in our but I put some more time into it and So let's start designing the sounds. This is going to be a very unfancy Kick. We're basically aiming We'll use the &quot;BD SILKY&quot; machine. What we definitely don't want in there This down-chirp is more of a so I'll dial it down completely. And finally we're going to bring out some of the low frequencies. In case you've never tried that before: Yes, it might seem counterintuitive to when we want to accentuate But turning up the resonance will actually If we can generate a very we can turn it into a vintage Rim Shot. On the Syntakt the &quot;Utility Impulse&quot; And just like on the Kick, we're going to agitate This immediately brings out that wooden quality We can fine tune the parameters of the impulse to This is the rhythmic foundation of the song and you can already hear kind Let's pick one of the digital The &quot;PC CARBON&quot; machine which is a clear sign The pattern actually But we don't have to create a second Bongo, OK so you might think if the &quot;PC CARBON&quot; why not also use it for the Conga? But I actually think the &quot;BD MODERN&quot; There is no parameter for the but we can just add a smidge of attack While we're at it we can also For the Tambourine so let's pick the &quot;Utility Noise&quot; machine. Can you hear this faint That's always a risk But we can solve this very easily that kills the output after the sound. I want to save the fourth so for the Cymbal we'll use The &quot;SY BITS&quot; machine can be Now listen as I turn up the resonance how this A very simple &quot;Closed Hat Classic&quot;. Pretty much what it says on the box Except for the overdrive. This will give the Hats more punch And we're going to shave a bit off the We don't want it to sound And now the final piece This is arguably the most interesting Mini A real Quijada is actually a cleaned and When you strike the jawbone the teeth You might be more familiar with the Vibraslap. So anyway, here's what I got. OK so your first thought And rightfully so. This is But it's an atonal mess we can I used a &quot;SY BITS&quot; machine to get two They are slightly detuned against each Then I used a square wave LFO Really harsh and fast. This is what makes our Quijada rattle. Then a high pass filter to get rid And once again resonance The filter is too static at the moment so I added an envelope that brings And finally a second LFO. This one actually controls the You can hear it when I hold the note. At some point it will also speed up again. But the Quijada sound will and to make absolutely sure of that What's interesting is that on the original if you use a &quot;hidden&quot; feature You have to press in two Beguine and Slow Rock. By itself I'd describe maybe reminiscent of a trotting pony. But it's all about context. As the backbone in one of its minimalistic sounds become that beautifully contrasts with the There's one fact about the recording Jean Michel Jarre didn't have poly so he meticulously layered multiple recordings The problem is that the tape noise And to cover that up, he simply leaned into It's not a bug, it's a feature. And as always a big Thanks to your support