Ms. Sanders: Good afternoon. Thanks for being Obviously, there's on the upcoming summit We have Secretary Pompeo here, who will make some and then take questions As you know, the President a press conference today, so we'll keep questions And we'll be around to answer other Thanks. With that, Secretary Pompeo: Thanks, The Press: Sarah, are you going Secretary Pompeo: Yes, a couple questions. (Laughter.) A couple. Good afternoon. It's great to be Early in his presidency, President Trump to address the threat which has been a threat to President Trump has been, committed to ridding and the world of threats of mass destruction and ballistic missile programs. These programs our allies and partners, and the broader North Korea's past activities that it is proliferation that creates a risk, in addition It has supporting infrastructure In early 2017, the Trump administration we have referred to as the The campaign enacted and diplomatic sanctions The goal was to set to make a strategic as the best means by which it American leadership rallied to send a strong message and the world that for the DPRK's The President's bold decision Un grew from this and targeted campaign. The President's policy directly that will take place Back on March 8th, expressed his desire as soon as possible. And then on May 9th, I met with Chairman Kim and explained for denuclearization. At that time, we also secured Kim Dong-chul, Tony Kim, We view this as from Chairman Kim Jong Un. The United States have been holding direct talks and North Korea its willingness A comprehensive in support of President Trump's White House- and State are finalizing and will remain until the summit begins. The President every development closely, and is getting daily briefings The fact that our two leaders shows that the two sides The diplomatic model is different from past efforts. Our efforts give us hope where past efforts President Trump is hopeful, but he's also going into the We've seen how many have been struck in the past. And you can be sure will not stand for a bad deal. The United States has been that complete, and irreversible of the Korean Peninsula is the only outcome The President recognizes that and he looks forward to a day can begin to be removed. However, that cannot happen and verifiably of mass destruction programs. President Trump and Chairman Kim will certainly also discuss for the DPRK, establishing a peace regime, and improving relations Until we achieve our goals, alongside the United States, has put on the regime In the event diplomacy does not these measures will increase. Throughout the entire process, the United States has been and South Korea in response to the threats I will be traveling with my -- I will be traveling and South Korean counterparts after the summit to continue I will also stop in Beijing I'll provide them with an update of fully implementing that are imposed President Trump recognizes North and is prepared free of its weapons is also a secure North Korea. President Trump has made Kim Jong Un denuclearizes, there is a brighter path We envision a strong, and prosperous North Korea that is integrated into We think that the people of the can create a future defined and not by mistrust and fear. We believe that shares this positive vision and we are committed And we assume and hope We're looking forward to being Ms. Sanders: As a reminder, before the Secretary Roberta. The Press: Thank you. What progress have you made in your understanding and North Korea's definition Has there been progress in bringing that definition Secretary Pompeo: Yes. The Press: Can you describe Secretary Pompeo: No. (Laughter) Ms. Sanders: That was quick. The Press: Thank you, Sarah. Thank you, Secretary Pompeo. As you mentioned North Korea, in the past, has reneged on prior agreements that it's made So I have two questions for you. The first question has to do with Kim Jong Un. Do you trust him? And my second question that are upcoming Who, in your opinion, has the upper hand and why? Secretary Pompeo: So, with I've had the chance to meet with I can tell you of articulating the things that he is prepared to do, present clearly the challenges It's why the two It's the opportunity clearly between so that we can see together that achieves the outcomes And your second question? The Press: Who has the upper Secretary Pompeo: Yeah. We don't think about it in terms We know this has been a long, It's gone on for decades. The President Previous administrations what we've done already. It's not about who It's about trying to find can come to an understanding, not just words, that Pamela. The Press: Mr. Secretary, the President said that he needs to prepare very much Do you think that's And also, I want to Rudy Giuliani's comments that Kim Jong Un got back on for the summit whether you think on these international affairs and whether you agree Secretary Pompeo: So back I took him as it and not being serious I think it was The Press: Do you think the summit or -- Secretary Pompeo: We're We're focused on I know Rudy. Rudy doesn't speak when it comes and this set of issues. With respect to your first we're making progress, And we're going to travel there. This is different. The approach that is fundamentally different. In the past, there have of detailed negotiations, This has already we've not been able Ms. Sanders: Dave Boyer. The Press: Thank you, The President said today that if he'd like to bring possibly, for further meetings. Has Kim Jong Un to come to North Korea? Secretary Pompeo: So, I don't about the conversations between the North Korean side and the United States. I'll leave that for But I do want to get to -- and this comes back that you asked about So, in my previous role -- you can look it up -- there were few days after having briefed that we didn't talk So over months and months, President Trump has been on this issue about the military the commercial, the history of the relationship. And in the past few months, there have been including today, where we have all the information And I am very confident that the when he meets with The Press: Just having met what can you tell us you've formed of Kim Jong Un as a person? Secretary Pompeo: Yeah. So, I haven't spent What I have said publicly personally, that he is that he understands that that he's prepared And that, too, he understands the way we've done it before -- that this has to be and we have to agree We can't step through but rather need to acknowledge it will take that this doesn't happen But that the model security assurance; and political normalization; and denuclearization and irreversibly -- we've got to make And I'm hopeful that is prepared to make that A big shift in his strategic Ms. Sanders: Ayesha. The Press: Thank you. So, you said that you -- that the President about security guarantees We have seen in this that when new they can undo things that How can President Trump for North Korea and for Kim, in particular? Secretary Pompeo: Well, look, that convince Chairman Kim that that's the case. All right? That's what we'll have to do. So, let me give you an example. We are hopeful that we will where we can do something didn't do, right? They signed a flimsy and we're hoping that Congress would that would give and elongation to the process, so that when as they inevitably do, six and half years from now -- that Chairman Kim that American policy will on the course that we hope Ms. Sanders: We'll take Zeke. The Press: Thank you, At the top of your remarks -- to follow up briefly on When you say a document are you referring to a treaty? Then second, at the top you said that there's also and its allies from as well as ballistic missiles. Is that a condition in any negotiation agreement that its ballistic and chemical weapons And third, finally, of the meeting between What will it look like? Secretary Pompeo: So, to talk about the format of the With respect to proliferation There is a history of that, and some of our other difficult They are connected. The reason you want and irreversible To the extent there knowledge bases, warehouses, fissile material I could go on -- the risk of proliferation And it's our aim, and providing that Chairman Kim will want, that we can greatly reduce the risk that as a result Ms. Sanders: Thanks so much -- The Press: One The Press: Mr. Secretary, can you explain when he's gone from talking for this meeting as denuclearization to now talking about Can you explain what happened And can you also describe your internally with the national Secretary Pompeo: Yeah, I've read a little And I love good fiction as much as the next person, but it is without foundation, I'll be polite, Suffice to say, and a complete joke. The Press: Surely, there had to Secretary Pompeo: Oh, sure. Ambassador Bolton and I will great consistency Right? We're two individuals. We're each going I'm confident that from how long this press (laughs) -- to issues that So, it's absolutely the case won't always agree, demands that we each The Press: (Inaudible.) Secretary Pompeo: Yeah, your first question, I'll try to answer I don't see the shift The President has that this was a process. It's been very clear that it would always take So, I think your -- you can but I think your also doesn't reflect I think his understanding has been pretty consistent since almost a year and a half ago. Ms. Sanders: Thanks so much,