Hey! How you doing? Justin here today! We're going to be talking about It's something I get asked about a whole lot. It's kind of a big subject, really, I think they tend to turn to it And I don't think that's the, If you're struggling to use a pick, I think you want to try using and struggle with it a little bit longer Because I think for real beginners, it's a bit easier and better to be able to strum with a pick. However, when I strum on the guitar, more than fifty percent of the time I choose to strum without a pick. Now, there's a lot more options when you choose to strum without a pick as well as any of the ways that you do it. When you strum with a pick, most people tend to hold the pick they move the arm the same way. There's kind of a lot more, it's not limited, but there seems to be one way that works for most people most of the time. Whereas, when you take that away, and you're using your hand, there's a lot more options as to how you angle your fingers on the strings, the way you use your thumb, or a combination of those things. How much you move your arm, how much you move your thumb, or your fingers independently There's a lot more options, and I think that's one of the reasons because you can get a lot more there's a bit more to think about. So, this video is for beginners to explore playing without a pick. If you don't want to play And for more intermediate and advanced guitar players to get some ideas on ways of exploring playing without a pick. So it's going to be multiple levels here, and, hopefully, beginners will find it and give you, hopefully, the right idea of finding a way that works well for you. Because I think that's one of the is finding the way that So, I'm going to start by Now, when you're strumming if you just strum down you get the, kind of, the fleshy Right? It's quite a round sound compared if I use a pick. It's kind of louder and a bit brighter. So if I use my thumb, it's little bit rounder, a little bit fuller, The brightness is sometimes good when you're recording, but not all the time. So I don't think that's necessarily it's just a bit different. When you do an up strum, if you're just going to use your thumb, there's a couple of things, couple of options and things Depending on how you angle your hands, so if you keep your thumb, kind of the palm flat with the guitar when you use your thumb, it can kind of hook up under the strings, and get caught and get So it's worth realising, that when you strum up, you want the thumb to be a little bit more kind of facing It needs to be at an angle So you need to explore a bit and how that feels with your thumb so that it's not hooking under the strings. So the angle of your thumb and go all kind of weird when you're strumming up So, that's the first thing, Now, generally, I think rather than the thumb, it wants to be, kind of, for the up strum Okay? Just a little bit. Doesn't have to be a lot. So, that's the first thing to think about is just be aware when you're how is it angled against the strings and is it going to hook in, is either the bit of the flesh where it meets the nail Or the whole angle of the thumb could, kind of, throw you in. I mean you shouldn't be like that. You want to keep your wrist nice and close to the strings I think for the thumb thing. But again, there's some different options And so, that's the first thing trying to find a way that it doesn't Now, because you've got a nail it's possible to get a fleshy sound, on the down, and a nail-y sound on the up. Which is obviously what I just did. Flesh, (inaudible)... Now, that feels a little bit weird I'm having to consciously, kind of, drag my nail on the strings. I find that if I keep my hand that I can still get the fleshy part it's, kind of, this little the fleshy part underneath my thumb. That's doing the strum, The fleshy part. Generally, you probably don't want and the down strums to be muted, Just sounds a little bit kind of wonky to my ear, well, I think So, if you're going to strum I recommend just mainly working And trying to get it so that See, there's not really a big accent With the nail, I can do it But it sounds a bit... Makes it sound a little bit wonky so I'd recommend just Now, when it comes to Just keeping all your fingers kind of nice and open, you can move your whole arm just like you would if you were doing strumming with a (?). But you could also there are some guides (guys?) that, kind of, put their fingers and just strum with the thumb motion itself. Now, neither of those ones are than the other one. It's just what feels comfortable for you There's no way that you should feel one way is superior other than what's working for the song and what's working for the person playing. And I think this is where it for beginners because I think to know what's right. And when you're using your pick, there tends to be more So, there's the right way of course it's not quite But there's mostly the right way to do it. And then ways that are maybe not so good. But with this fingers thing, there's a few more options and, therefore, it can get a little bit and beginners might feel a little bit And the test, I guess, to see is if it feels nice to you. If it sounds nice. Cause that's the two most important things It needs to sound nice to you And it wants to feel nice and You don't want it to feel That's not the point. It should feel comfortable. So, you need to explore a little bit First of all, the angle of your thumb how you going to play, whether you want it to be unlikely you're going to want that, but you might do. And then think about whether you the whole arm moving. Or whether you just want to think Or a mixture. So maybe your arm moves a little bit, and your thumb's moving as well. It's not one or the other. There's combinations here that And you don't feel- You shouldn't feel like you have Okay? So that would be playing It's one my favourite, personally, I like playing with the thumb a lot particularly with the fleshy thing if I'm doing a little ballad or something that's just a bit mellower. And it feels- I like the feeling of the strings on the flesh I just - I like that. It's nice. Strumming with a pick, of course, is something I do a lot as well and there's definitely advantages to that the crispness and brightness and particularly if you're it can be a big advantage, but there's lots of other advantages with the fingers thing as well which we're going to get into now. So, that's talking about the thumb Now the other option is quite a common one is using your first finger on its own. Now, if you're going to strum with if you strum down, you're most likely to get this use the nail part And then on the up pick, you tend to use the fleshy part So you get: Now, it's kind of more musical to have the nail on the 1, 2, 3, and the 4 and the fleshy part on the end So, that would be normally, 1 and, 2 and, 3 and, 4 and if you were strumming on every beat Now, if you're going to do that, you're going to find with the up strumming again, you need to be aware of the position so that your finger doesn't, kind of, So, it needs to be, kind of, pointing up So, down, and then up it's going to be pointing at the ground for the up stroke and then you're going to curl your finger a little bit for the down If I try and slow it right down Now this approach, doing it like this I'm not tending to make a big motion I can do it. We'll talk about another option But the finger strumming sort of thing is very much, kind of, up and down And it's nail on the way down, and finger on the way up. Now, if you don't want that difference in dynamic between the nail and finger you can also use the flesh of So this way you're keeping Instead of it this way Up and down this way You think a bit more that way Now this is very soft and delicate so I would only ever use this a ballad-y kind of thing it's lost all of top (?), It's soft, it's hard to get, like, like the range between how loud But it's quite nice and delicate as well so, there might be times where Yeah, see, I still want to occasionally I want to be hitting the nail to get a little bit more crunchy But, definitely, there have been occasions where I've been using, mainly, the little fleshy, using the finger the pointy thing. Now, the other option that's very common is to hold your finger together like you're holding a pick. So, you're actually pretending you're holding a pick but the pick becomes your first finger Okay? So, that way is quite a nice one, again, for beginners if you're playing or you've dropped your pick You're used to the technique you should practice a little bit Just putting your fingers together Now, straight away, I'm more like I would when I'm playing Okay? So pivoting from the elbow, trying to move the whole forearm Okay? So, it's much more... it feels like more of a strum if I go into just holding my first finger and my thumb together like this It's not actually any different to just using your first finger because you're not using your thumb. But there's something about it makes it a little bit more solid, it gives it a little bit more volume. Again, the things that is just, particularly, for the up strum, making sure you're not hooking So, that'll just be experimenting with the angle of your first finger. You don't want it pointing, kind of, you want it, like, pointing directly in or even a little bit, kind of, your first finger pointing to avoid getting that kind of- So, all of these things are all there's not a right or a wrong You can use your thumb by itself, you can use the thumb and then Or just the flesh of the thumb You can use just your first finger, you can have it going You can strum your whole hand, and use the fleshy pad of the first finger You can hold your thumb and But there's even more options than that, right? So, that's just the starting point. Another really, really common one is to use your thumb on the bass note So, usually on beat one and beat three and then use your first finger for doing So, you have this 1, 2 and, 3 and, 4 So, thumb Down - Up Thumb Thumb With the first finger, Thumb - Up 1, 2 and, 3 and, 4 For example, that you can use There's infinite number of patterns if you start exploring that as an option But, that again, is a really, really common, kind of, starting point the idea of having the bass note with a nice, round, fleshy thumb sound And then that down strum where you're using the pick. You know it's called, &quot;Playing on the back beat&quot; which is the beat two and four when the accent is a little bit this 2, 3 and, 4 It's emulating the snare drum so you get that Doo. Ga! Doo, doo, ga! Doo, doo, 2, 3 and, 4! 1, 2 So having that 1, 2, 3 and, 4 It's a really, really nice something that, again, you would likely pick a little harder if you were playing with a pick But if you're playing with your fingers, you think about ways of dealing with that. So, you're using the thumb and the down hit with the first finger on beats two and four it's quite a nice little option. Now, last thing I want to talk about is the mixing of all of that together And that's probably one of the things with fingers as opposed to a pick is being able to mix up the strumming part with the finger styling part. You know one of my favourite guitar players in the world and he's an expert at doing that. The way he combines little melody elements within the strumming. It's kind of like strumming and fingerstyle and you can get a bit percussive and all of that sort of stuff It's not for beginners. I wouldn't recommend beginners because it's way more complicated But just to give you a kind of a taste The idea would be along the lines of what I was talking about before where you have this bass note little strum in between So you get into, kind of, the bit where you can, kind of, do fingerstyle within the strumming, and keep the strumming going That's the longer term goal, I think if you're going to pursue the fingerstyling you know, finger strumming is to be able to incorporate those things if you feel you need to. Now, more is not always better sometimes it's better just to keep the strumming real simple. It depends on what the song needs, not what you fancy doing. Okay? That's a really important thing to realize is that you should be Not just for you to show off what techniques that you've got. So, always, kind of bear that in mind. What's the song that you're playing, how does it feel good, Is it a ballad? Is it a high tempo thing? How should it feel? What's the best way to deliver So, to summarize, for beginners, I would recommend if you don't want to use a pick for whatever reason, you get into using your thumb. The fleshy part of your thumb and just getting into using A little bit of thumb. Try and get used to making sure that the thumb doesn't catch on anything. So, just thinking about the angle just take it slowly and see if you can notice if something is going wrong if you're getting a one of the strums is too loud or you're getting a bit of nail or it's just poking out funny or for whatever reason try and become an observer of yourself. Rather than trying to concentrate Try and watch yourself do it as an impartial observer just out of curiosity and then, kind of, try to make the mistake. Because then if you're watching and you do make the mistake figuring out what went wrong. And if you can figure out what's you got a way of fixing it. But remember that with this fingerstyle thing there's not so many rules I don't really get into this idea that there's one way to do it and it's the right way and this guy says that you should this and another guys says you should do that. I really don't think that's right I've seen a lot of different, play all kinds of different ways and I think that's a good thing. To be able to explore and find in the musical journey. Because that's where you'll find, And your most enjoyment, Now, that's getting a bit arty-farty for beginners, you just want So, if you're that guy, If you're a more advanced try exploring all of these try exploring different fingers different ways of doing it, of course we're not getting into the full-on, you know, percussive fingerstyle options because when we get into that there's like a hundred thousand different ways of doing it. But this should give, kind of, beginners to intermediate guitar players a taste of the different things that they might want to explore if they don't want to use a pick. I really hope you found And if you did, really appreciate So hit that &quot;Subscribe&quot; button! Remember there's lots of as well there will be a link So go and check that out. I'll see you for plenty more very soon. You take care of yourselves! Thanks! Bye-bye.