This, my friends, is one of the most common it's the 4 knights variation. And in today's gambit that you can play as white in this very but before starting off, I would like to thank now this looks like a boring symmetrical position, let's spice it up with the crazy-looking move, Now hold on, I know you're concerned about just this is actually a great opening to play, the data proves it - look at this. White actually takes on e5. And its much better than all Okay, so what after black takes your knight? Well, knights, so d4. And now black has 2 main options. going to g4 doesn't make sense because after his knights. So, in this position, black wants why he will retreat to one of these 2 squares. hitting the knight. Again, he has a few options few more pawn moves, we're constantly chasing the he has to sacrifice the bishop or the knight. So, black is left with these 2 options. Let's look at time you'll attack with the f pawn. Knight g6 other knight. Just see how smartly we're pushing It's all about the pawns in the Halloween gambit, to underdevelop his knight. Even if he tries to and eventually, he will have to retreat the would just back off right away. And now that you opponent by pushing even further. Takes, takes strangulating black &amp; he is helpless. If he we have a check &amp; black loses material. So he has reason why he'll try to make space for his king. queen b6 &amp; queen f6. If queen b6, we'll get our we're adding another defender to this pawn. Look, in many variations, so just keep that in mind. d8 seems the most logical response. And we just if he moves to h4, then the knight is gone. So just develop with tempo. Don't give him time to to defend with f6, you can just move your queen, if he tries something like a6, trying to push bishop going after the queen. And after the queen then knight c7 check and the rook is gone. great game to play as white. You can bring out the struggling with a vulnerable king &amp; all these let's go back! So this is how you can play queen f6? He's applying pressure on both these be a little risky because there is this variation then you might land up in trouble. Eventhough exposed &amp; black can take advantage with his queen which can be quite uncomfortable to deal with. to f6, I would suggest you begin with a check. your plan of knight b5. Even if he exchanges so he has to move the king. And now you can target castle on the kingside, control this file with you still have this really strong pawn which instead of moving this pawn, there are high He's trying to push back this knight to pick up him with one check after another. Eventually, you picking up these pawns &amp; you should be easily to smash your opponent like this! In fact, happy. And that's your like! So please guys, hit now let's go back! After d5, we just looked at all if he goes back to b8? Well, our plan remains the Advance further, exchange the pawns, and just tie for the king, again knight b5 is the key move. And a terrible square for the knight. You can develop starts getting really uncomfortable for black. pieces. On the other hand, you can simply castle white almost a 5 point advantage in this position. do you counter the Halloween gambit as black? black as well. But before moving on, I would like Guys, just like an intense chess game, life stressful or anxious situation, I try to distract not in your control. That's when you need the help your mental health. Finding the right therapist makes it very easy for you. Well, BetterHelp is an at your own convenience. It's online, it's remote matched to a suitable professional therapist. along with that therapist, you can even switch BetterHelp wants to make therapy more affordable happy &amp; healthy life. Its really easy to sign BetterHelp.com/ChessTalk , that's better-h-e-l-p &amp; month. Link is in the description box below, knight c6, we arrive at the 4 knights opening. And the knight &amp; then attack with d4. Earlier, we saw to c6. Now let's look at some ideas when he goes He can't go here because of our knight, we also back is his only option. And here, the engine move I like to play is queen to f3 because this is The most common response you'll see is d6, and now on this f7 square. If he tries to defend with his with all your pieces. But instead of the queen, bishop e6, offering an exchange. But you have a he takes your bishop, don't worry! We have this the bishop as well. And not only this, if he tries gone! We have queen e4, pinning the knight &amp; black like this, we have f4, and ultimately the knight queen f3, d6 is the most popular response that we is developing the bishop &amp; pinning the knight. hitting on f7. Queen e7 is what most people play. for the knight &amp; now just look at this pawn we control all these squares in the center. I mean just look at all these pieces - they're much atleast for the next few moves! After looking is - how do you counter this scary opening the knight can go back both ways. But I highly gives white exactly what he wants. Just count the three, four - Four tempis in a row on the black center. So don't play like this! So, instead of knight that they can go after. Unfortunately, we And let's say white plays queen f3. Now here comes white from gaining the initiative. Well, let you counter many such opening sacrifices! Look, and your opponent starts to get a lot of activity, to give back some of the material in order to onto this extra knight, but you'll have to this is the time where you need to sacrifice some d5. Let him just take this pawn. Capturing en get the bishops out &amp; that's not what they want. the queen, you can simply go for the exchange, Now since knight c7 is the main threat, you'll white has these 2 annoying pawns in the So I would say that this is even stevens &amp; its case - in this position, instead of the queen, play d5. White has to waste a move by taking the bishop. When he runs back, you can simply develop you take over the control of this d5 square. slowly develop your pieces &amp; this in fact, looks side &amp; there are no immediate threats as such. play against the Halloween gambit. Alright, so turn &amp; you need to find the best move for white. many of you get this right. Guys, do Subscribe