Day 1 London - St.Just, Cornwall I arrived in Cornwall at 5:30 pm, and it took way longer than I expected. This little house is the perfect place to unwind after a 6-hour drive. Built deep in the woods and equipped with everything I could ever want. It's surrounded by bushes, which makes it feel more adventurous. it's pretty windy, but I really enjoyed the view from the little garden. 7:00 pm The Minack "rocky place" is a open-air theatre located on a cliff in Cornwall. The Minack Theatre was built in the early 1930s by an incredible woman named Rowena Cade. She hand built using local stone and created the theatre from her own garden As an open-air theatre, performances take place under the sky, often with the dramatic ocean and crashing waves as a backdrop. The weather only adds to the experience. stunning cliff edge surrounds the theatre, with the blue sea stretching beyond. the theatre feels like it's been there forever. Surprisingly it's actually less than 100 years old. There were lots of blooming plants all around the site. Looking down at the theatre It includes many steps, so wear comfortable footwear. From the Minack theatre take the steep steps down to Porthcurno beach. One corner of the theater provides beautiful views of Porthcurno Beach. I walked down the cliff path to a hidden stretch of beach tucked behind the cliffs. 150 years ago, the very first international telegraph cable was brought ashore at Porthcurno, connecting Britain to India and eventually to other parts of the world. The descent to the beach is steep and rocky got down to the beach an empty and beautiful beach at dusk I took a walk on the beach and it's enjoyable, even though it's a bit windy and cold. It's getting cold now, so I jumped back in the car and drove back to the hotel. headed back to the warmth of the hotel turned on the fireplace to warm up The living area had a leather sofa next to the wood-burning stove. loved chilling out in this space. I stayed up until midnight, feeling exhausted and ready for bed. Day 2 A little after 7 am I only got about 3 hours of sleep, A strong wind blew all night, and I couldn't sleep well because of the noise. But I was up early and ready for a day of exploring. preparing food for Suddenly, heavy rain started... I'm cozying up on the comfy sofa here while waiting for the rain to stop. ready to go As I drove into Pendeen, I spotted a sign for the lighthouse and decided to go have a look. My first stop of the day was the Pendeen Lighthouse This's a good place to stop along the coast road It's a stunning trail along the cliffs that shows off Cornwall's wild beauty. Atlantic ocean crashing against the shore Pendeen lighthouse was built in 1900 This lighthouse symbolizes the region's seafaring past and its brave keepers. It seemed like it wasn't open to the public. There's a small car park on site. After enjoying the views and a lovely walk, it was time to head to my next stop for the morning. From the parking lot, I wandered into town. Newlyn, near Penzance, has one of the UK's largest fishing fleets with over 40 acres of harbor. Newlyn Fisherman Statue The scenery was lovely. There were a few people around, but it still felt pretty empty. After wandering around, I wanted something for lunch. I found a seafood restaurant called Mackerel Sky Seafood Bar. A delicious, fresh meal - much needed after the walk, The mussels were incredibly tasty and locally sourced. It turned out different from what I expected, but it was still tasty. There was quite a line outside the restaurant, so I finished quickly. After lunch, I headed to the Land's End Hotel for a night stay. The hotel is perched high on the clifftop The pathway leading from the car park to Land's End It's a bit early to check in, so I went for a gentle coastal walk. So lucky to have arrived with such sunny weather! The southernmost point of the UK mainland is Land's End in Cornwall. The place has a really relaxing vibe to it. Obviously, Cornwall is a fantastic place for dogs in general. Carrying on down the coast felt very freeing to be stood up there St. Michael's Mount, the iconic castle tidal island in Mount's Bay. It's accessible by foot at low tide or by boat at other times. When the tide is low, you can stroll between the island and the mainland via the ancient causeway. Unfortunately,I found the gate shut and closed but still looked over the fence there lies a quaint village gathered around the harbor. I really loved the layout of the island, with its beautiful views. St. Michael's Mount has been the St Aubyn family's home since 1650. Now it's managed by the National Trust. Once I took a break, I made my way back There are plenty of shellfish under the rocks. The timing of the tides changes every day. It's only possible for a few hours around lowtide. so be sure to check tide times. The tide was slowly covering the causeway. In some fresh sea air the causeway had disappeared St. Michael's Mount seems to rise from the sea. amazing view and place I decided to head to Penzance for dinner. Penzance Promenade The promenade stretches on for a long way, offering a view of the coast. dinner at Barbican Bistro in Penzance It's a very laid-back environment The food came out really quickly Amazingly fresh carb meat After dinner, I went back to the hotel room in Land's End. view from my hotel room I took a quick nap and then headed straight down to the lobby. I strolled past the shops, with the smell of barbecue wafting into the street. There will be fireworks tonight,very exciting! lovely decorations hanging overhead Decided to go for a sunset walk around the coastal path took a stroll down along the cliff path. Wind has produced some dramatic sea stacks and rocky cliffs stunning views of the coastline I spent about half an hour walking along the coastline admiring the view, and stopped every few minutes to take pictures as well. Majestic golden colors filled the sky, with fluffy clouds pierced by the light of the setting sun. I got really lucky with the weather, it's glorious. Everything was quiet except for the wind and seagulls now and then. A nice bit of time to relax before the fireworks start The plan for the rest of the day was to wait for the fireworks. I sent the back to the hotel before the fireworks started. It's always best to avoid taking dogs to fireworks displays. The fireworks were amazing and definitely worth the wait.