For decades humanity has searched for extraterrestrial life. We have not found it and perhaps the search will continue for centuries. But with billions of galaxies and planets in our universe, intelligent life seems inevitable. Many of these civilizations are probably older than humans and are millennia ahead of us. They would possess technological capabilities that challenge our imagination. UFOs have been considered signs of extraterrestrial life, although the hypothesis remains unconfirmed. If they exist, it would be fascinating to make contact. However, it could be dangerous. On this trip we will explore other stars, our galaxy and our universe, with the mission of locating intelligent extraterrestrial civilizations. As we move forward, we will reach other universes and alternative realities. We will propose the incredible technologies that would have been capable of developing extraterrestrial beings from advanced civilizations. We will describe your possible physical appearance. We will analyze the claims of alleged researchers about recovered extraterrestrial spacecraft. In addition, we will reveal the most shocking UFO sightings , which demonstrate their amazing capabilities. There is no usual explanation for sightings of UFOs or unidentified flying objects. Since the 1940s reports have multiplied, starting with the famous Roswell incident. The US government described it as the fall of a weather balloon. Other researchers believe that it was the accident of a ship piloted by extraterrestrial beings. Over time, interest in this phenomenon has increased. Between 2 percent and 5 percent of cases remain unsolved and, in turn, present worrying aspects. Some UFOs move in ways that seem impossible based on our understanding of the laws of physics. They travel at incredibly high speeds, make sudden turns, and accelerate or brake rapidly, all without apparent methods of propulsion. Reports continually come in from military pilots observing them in controlled airspace, raising national security concerns. Some objects possess the ability to move seamlessly between air and water, a level of technology that would be extremely advanced. Added to all this is the publication of videos of certain encounters between UFOs and United States Navy pilots. They display speeds and maneuvers that transcend the capabilities of modern aeronautical technology. They were first leaked in December 2017 and confirmed by the Pentagon in April 2020. Gimbal, recorded in 2015 on the east coast of the United States, shows a saucer-shaped object, filmed with an infrared camera at a F/ A-18 Super Hornet. You can hear the pilots surprised by its aerodynamic capabilities. One of them mentions that it is going against a wind of 120 knots or 222 kilometers per hour. A pilot is heard impressed by its rotation, something atypical for conventional aerial vehicles. GoFast, also recorded in 2015, reveals an object moving at high speed above the ocean surface. Captured by an infrared camera on an F-18, it appears to be moving at high speed. The pilot sounds surprised by the flight of the object. FLIR, from 2004, captures an encounter during a naval training exercise near San Diego. An oval object is visible that is moving at a constant speed. Although it does not feature visible wings or emissions like a conventional engine, it manages to maintain impressive speed and maneuverability. The pilots who observed it noticed that it accelerated and changed direction inexplicably. Hypothesis about UFOs One of the explanations for these flying objects is the extraterrestrial hypothesis, which proposes that they are ships operated by intelligent beings from other worlds. It indicates that certain civilizations have advanced technologies for interstellar travel. Some speculation is directed towards planets in our galaxy, the Milky Way, given its abundance of stars. Star systems such as Proxima Centauri or Alpha Centauri are considered candidates due to their relative proximity to Earth. Exoplanets located in the habitable zone of their stars arouse special interest. These alien ships would be equipped with antigravitational propulsion technology, thus allowing the maneuvers observed. Devices such as warp drives would be their means of covering large cosmic distances. If these civilizations manage to reach our world, they are probably older, having had enough time to develop that advanced technology. If an extraterrestrial civilization is only twice as old as humans, it would have serious implications. Maybe they are studying our planet and its living beings. Or perhaps they are reconnaissance teams for our civilization or the Earth's natural resources. Another possibility is that they are trying to connect with humans indirectly. There is an alternative that would be even more intriguing. According to the cryptoterrestrial hypothesis, UFOs come from a civilization that has secretly coexisted with humans for centuries. They would have developed advanced technologies, hiding from the rest of humanity for different reasons. Cryptoterrestrials are sometimes described as humanoids similar to humans, but taller and thinner. It is believed that their technology allows them to manipulate space, time, and human perception. They would have cloaking devices, antigravity ships, and mind control capabilities. It is theorized that they live in underground cities or bases under the ocean. Although it may seem surprising, it has been suggested that volcanoes have a relationship with these beings. According to various sightings, UFOs enter or leave the craters of volcanoes such as Popocatepetl, in central Mexico. Some postulate that these beings use these openings as dimensional portals, to collect energy, or to travel to underground cities. Associated with this supposed method of movement between different media are unidentified submersible objects. They are objects that are seen both emerging and submerging in ocean waters. They demonstrate capabilities that exceed any known human technology. One of the proposals is that they are cryptoterrestrials that have adapted to living in underwater environments. It has also been suggested that these are extraterrestrial beings with ships capable of moving easily between air and water. But what if UFOs are not extraterrestrial or cryptoterrestrial beings? This defends the interdimensional hypothesis, which proposes that they are entities or phenomena from other dimensions. Beings and their vehicles would be able to move between parallel realities, appearing and disappearing. Some accounts describe interdimensional beings as humanoids with a translucent appearance. They are described as forms of energy, without a clear physical structure. One possibility is that they come from a parallel universe, with different laws of physics than ours. The interdimensional hypothesis is directly related to that of time travelers. It posits that UFOs and their occupants are humans from the future who travel in time to study or interact with their past. In the distant future, humanity will have developed advanced technologies that will facilitate time travel. The physical similarity observed in some encounters would make sense if they are humans from future times. If this were true, it would imply great questions, possibilities and paradoxes of physics. Much more earthly is the military hypothesis. He points out that many UFO sightings are experiments with advanced technologies from various nations. The military, especially in times of war, devotes considerable resources to research and development. To protect national security and maintain a strategic advantage, Military technological developments are often kept secret. Throughout history, some military advances have been mistaken for unexplained phenomena. There are several advanced models of aircraft that, to those unfamiliar, might look like extraterrestrial vehicles. The B-21 Raider design does not include a tail or other traditional aircraft structures. The B-2 Spirit is a stealth bomber capable of penetrating anti-aircraft defenses without being detected. Like the B-21, it has a design that reduces aerodynamic drag. Compared to a traditionally designed aircraft, it appears technologically advanced. The F-117 Nighthawk was designed to be extremely difficult to detect by radar. It uses angular geometric shapes that deflect radar waves instead of reflecting them back. The Fermi Paradox We have seen that one of the hypotheses about the UFO phenomenon suggests extraterrestrial life, but without definitive proof they are mere speculations. The Milky Way, our galaxy, is estimated to contain 100 to 400 billion stars. If only 1 percent of stars have a planet suitable for life, there would be billions of habitable planets. And this would only be in our galaxy. The universe has billions of galaxies and each would have billions of habitable planets. Furthermore, the Drake equation and its revisions suggest that, with so many habitable planets, it is very likely that extraterrestrial technological civilizations exist. On the other hand, life on Earth emerged about 4 billion years ago, while the universe is approximately 13.8 billion years old. There was enough time for the cosmic conditions to develop for the emergence of life. That life would have given rise to advanced civilizations with technologies developed for interstellar exploration. So where are the aliens? Why haven't we found them or why haven't they reached our planet? This is the Fermi paradox: the contradiction between the high probability of the existence of extraterrestrial civilizations and the lack of evidence or contact. Various explanations have been proposed, some more terrifying than others. One is that signals from other civilizations are too weak to be detected with our technology. They would be using forms of communication that we cannot grasp or that we do not understand. The enormous interstellar distances also justify the lack of contact. The closest star to our solar system, Proxima Centauri, is approximately 4.24 light years away. Even at the speed of light, the trip would take over 4 years. With current technology, a manned trip to Proxima Centauri would take thousands of years. But there are other explanations: What if it is because the aliens are observing us, without wanting to interfere? This is what the Zoo or Galactic National Park hypothesis proposes. It suggests that advanced civilizations are observing us discreetly. Perhaps they view our solar system or the entire Milky Way as a great reservoir of inferior beings. Just as we do not disturb lions in the savanna or gorillas in the jungle, they would prefer not to interfere with our environment. They would allow humans to thrive according to our own circumstances. Perhaps they consider that humanity is not yet ready for contact with higher beings. In this way, protecting the Milky Way as a reserve would prevent cultural and biological contamination. The introduction of advanced technologies on Earth would cause abrupt changes or conflicts between nations, something that higher entities would not want. An additional possibility is that cosmic civilizations have short durations on a universal scale, and are therefore already extinct. In particular, asteroids have the potential to impact any planet. 65 million years ago, the collision of an asteroid on Earth contributed to the extinction of the dinosaurs, allowing the rise of mammals. It is plausible that a similar event could have wiped out entire civilizations on other worlds, leaving behind ruins as vestiges of their existence. Let's imagine a planet in a distant galaxy: Xara. On Xara, a civilization, the Xarans, flourished for thousands of years. They mastered advanced technologies and took advantage of much of the power of their star, although they had not yet colonized other planets. They built dazzling cities and monuments that evidenced their deep understanding of the cosmos. 20 million years ago, a gigantic asteroid, invisible until the last moment, impacted Xara. The event was devastating. It caused massive fires. It generated colossal tsunamis that swept continents. And it filled the atmosphere with particles that blocked sunlight for decades. The Xaran civilization, despite its technology, was unable to fully recover from the disaster. Society collapsed and its population decreased drastically, until it became extinct. Over the millennia, the planet's natural regeneration covered the ruins of the Xaran cities. After millions of years, new intelligent species appeared on the planet. They discovered the artifacts and ruins of the Xaran civilization, but did not have the knowledge to understand them. The fall of a large asteroid causes immense destruction, but there are cosmic events that are worse. A supernova, the explosive death of a massive star, emits an immense amount of energy. In a typical galaxy like the Milky Way, it is estimated that one occurs every 50 years. If an intelligent civilization inhabits a planet near a star about to go supernova, it would face devastating consequences. Before exploding, a star increases its luminosity and expands to become a red supergiant. After exploding in a supernova, it releases an intense amount of radiation and subatomic particles. The intense radiation would destroy the ozone layer of a planet nearby. In intelligent beings and other living beings on the planet, it would cause skin cancer, damaging DNA and causing genetic mutations. High-energy absorption would heat the atmosphere to extreme levels, vaporizing much of the oceans. Days or weeks later, the supernova shock wave would arrive, transporting material at high speeds. If the distance is short enough, it would literally sweep away the planet's atmosphere and disintegrate the surface. If it has the capability, civilization would attempt to move to another star system long before the supernova. Another solution would be to establish underground shelters in the deep areas of the planet. Much less frequent events in the cosmos are galactic collisions. The Milky Way has had several minor collisions in its history and is expected to collide with the Andromeda galaxy in about 4 billion years. Due to the enormous distances between the stars, the probability of a direct collision is very low. However, there are ways in which a galactic collision would have a negative impact on an advanced civilization. During a collision between galaxies, gas is compressed, causing an increase in the rate of star formation. These areas are considered dangerous due to the presence of supernovae and strong radiation from young, massive stars. If an inhabited planet is nearby, it would experience a drastic increase in radiation. Absorption by a wandering black hole is another possible cause of the extinction of an extraterrestrial civilization. Although unlikely, on a long enough time scale and in such a vast universe, it is feasible for rare events like this to occur. At the center of each galaxy there is usually a supermassive black hole. As galaxies merge in a galactic collision, their respective black holes move closer together. The force of their gravity is so intense that they eventually combine into one. When they merge, they release gravitational waves, and the resulting black hole can move in the opposite direction. If this recoil is strong enough, it drives the black hole to move at high speed. By exceeding escape velocity, you will be ejected from your galaxy and begin moving through the vacuum of intergalactic space. After millions of years, it would end up being captured by the gravity of a nearby galaxy. Then the wandering black hole begins to interact with matter. As it moves through the galaxy, it absorbs stars, planets, asteroids, moons, and any object that gets close enough. It is possible that it is heading towards a star system with life. Gravitational perturbations cause some planets to deviate from their orbits and approach the black hole. If an advanced civilization inhabits one of these worlds, the process would be catastrophic. In the unlikely event that this happens in our solar system, it would be terrifying. As the black hole moves into the solar system, it could begin to absorb planets. The probability of it absorbing one would depend on its trajectory and relative speed. Neptune's approach to the black hole would be a spectacular, but terrifying event. As it approaches the black hole, tidal forces would deform its structure. These forces would overcome the gravity that holds the planet together, beginning to disintegrate. This is called &quot;spaghettification,&quot; in which objects are stretched into long, thin shapes. Neptune would be seen elongating into a stream of material before disintegrating into small fragments. If the black hole has a speed of approximately 500 kilometers per second or 310 miles per second, it would take about 99 days to reach Mars. For a supermassive black hole, the absorption of a planet like Mars would take 1 to 2 days. Traveling at that speed, it would take 5 days to reach Earth. As it approached the event horizon, any planet and its inhabitants would have disintegrated into small particles. Inside, the final destination is the singularity, a point of infinite density where the laws of physics no longer apply. In the hypothetical case that this process had occurred with an advanced civilization, they would only have had the opportunity to survive by fleeing the planet. A much more plausible event in the history of the universe is an extreme solar flare. Astronomical observations have revealed that these violent flares occur especially in red dwarfs. If a planet is relatively close to this type of star, it would have greater exposure to solar radiation and flares. In critical situations, a solar flare would destroy life on a planet in 24 hours or less. It would have to be of a much larger magnitude than the typical flares observed in active red dwarfs. One of the first victims of an eruption of this intensity would be the planet's ozone layer , which would be destroyed by intense ultraviolet rays. The atmosphere would warm so quickly that it would literally cook the surface, sparking massive wildfires. Natural ecosystems would rapidly collapse, with widespread extinction of flora and fauna species. Civilization, if dependent on technology, would see its infrastructure destroyed almost instantly by electromagnetic pulses from the flare. The absence of extraterrestrial civilizations could be explained by devastating cosmic events like these. A different theory proposes that they are present, although intentionally hidden. Perhaps they have chosen not to signal to avoid detection. It is possible that they know of the existence of advanced hostile civilizations, which have the ability to colonize other planets or even galaxies. This is the dark forest hypothesis. The idea is that the universe is a dangerous place and to show one's own existence would attract aggressive or imperialist civilizations. Some advanced extraterrestrial races may view emerging civilizations as threats. This predatory civilization would consider expansion to other worlds with resources as a way to increase its chances of survival on a cosmic level. In this way, silence and concealment become survival strategies. A basis for this theory is the precautionary principle. If one civilization does not know what others want, it is prudent to assume that contact leads to annihilation. To avoid being discovered, it is best not to emit signals or build large space structures. An important aspect of this hypothesis is the idea of competition for resources. Although the universe appears to have unlimited resources, habitable places for advanced technological development could be few. This scarcity would foster a competitive mentality among civilizations, driving them to stay hidden to survive. The Kardashev scale If we assume that there are extraterrestrial civilizations that observe us, are hidden or too far away, what level of technological advance do they have? In 1964, Russian astrophysicist Nikolai Kardashev proposed a way to classify civilizations by their technology and energy use. A Type 1 civilization uses all the resources available on its home planet. Take advantage of solar, geothermal and other energy sources on your planet. When humans reach this level, they will have the ability to alter their environment, control the weather and earthquakes. According to the Kardashev scale, humans would be around zero point seven. Although technology has advanced, humanity still does not take advantage of all the energy on Earth. Furthermore, before reaching type 1, humanity will likely have to overcome filters that determine its advancement or extinction. A type 2 civilization travels away from its home planet, harnessing the energy of its local star through advanced technological means. It has the ability to use the energy of its entire star system, and to manipulate the dynamics of planets and other celestial bodies. A Type 3 civilization uses its technology to harness the energy of its entire galaxy. Not only stars, but also galactic phenomena such as black holes. According to post-Kardashev speculation, a Type 4 or universal civilization would be capable of harnessing the energy of the entire observable universe. Including dark energy and the energy of all galaxies. Upon reaching Type 4, a civilization gains access to resources that allow it to perform simulations indistinguishable from reality. They would be detailed recreations of the universe and consciousness. They could create infinite simulated universes, where different life forms or extraterrestrial races live. The Type 5 or multiversal civilization is equipped with technology to manipulate dimensions. These beings would have the ability to travel between different universes and take advantage of their resources. They would manipulate time, speeding it up, slowing it down, stopping it, or reversing it. The most developed civilization in the universe would be the omniversal or type 6. They would be capable of controlling energy and matter at fundamental levels. They would have the ability to create and destroy universes, causing events similar to the Big Bang. They would alter the laws of physics at will, and achieve forms of existence that transcend biology, possibly becoming immortal. They would transcend concepts such as time and space, existing in higher states of consciousness. They would have the ability to exist as intangible consciousnesses, without being limited to a specific place or form. They could interact with lower civilizations from inaccessible dimensions, guiding them, observing them or participating in their development. Ways to find intelligent civilizations Theoretically, our universe would host thousands of civilizations at different levels of development. We haven't detected them, but it may just be a matter of time. In that case, what should we observe or look for? One of the scientific activities has focused on detecting radio or light signals emitted by alien technologies. SETI, or search for extra terrestrial intelligence, uses large radio telescopes to scan the sky for unusual signals. However, there are numerous astronomical phenomena and potential technologies that we can analyze. One of these ideas is the Dyson sphere. An advanced civilization would have the ability to build a megastructure around a star to harness its energy. It would surely include solar panels or some other technology. A more feasible option would be to use individual components, such as satellites or solar panels. At a great distance it would look like a cloud of particles surrounding the star. But reliably differentiating a megastructure from other space phenomena requires advanced technology. A type 2 civilization would have engineers capable of developing a colossal ship like the McKendree Cylinder. It consists of a gigantic cylindrical habitat, designed to support a large number of inhabitants, possibly millions. It would measure up to 460 kilometers or 286 miles in diameter and 4600 kilometers or 2859 miles in length. It would rotate to provide artificial gravity, creating an environment similar to that of a habitable planet. It would be composed of strong, lightweight materials, such as carbon nanotubes, to withstand the stresses of the cylinder's size and rotation. Sunlight would be reflected by mirrors and filtered through windows, maintaining a natural day and night cycle. To protect itself from meteorite impacts or external aggression, it would be equipped with energy shields or laser defense systems. It is thought that moons such as Europa, on Jupiter, could support microbial or Extremophilic life. It has an icy surface with an ocean of liquid water beneath the surface. Titan, on Saturn, has a dense, nitrogen-rich atmosphere, with lakes and rivers of methane and ethane on its surface. It is speculated, on the other hand, that beneath its surface there could be an ocean of liquid water mixed with ammonia. In this situation we are referring to microscopic life, but other moons of the Milky Way or other galaxies could be essential for the development of intelligent life. Our moon stabilizes the Earth's tilt, producing a more stable climate. According to other speculative theories, the Moon has acted as a shield, blocking the impact of some meteorites. What if the presence of a moon is essential for life to develop on other planets in the universe? We have the option of searching for exoplanet moons, but also possible extraterrestrial complexes that orbit them. Advanced civilizations would have created mining stations, from which they would descend to extract natural resources such as water, metals or minerals. It would be a large orbital platform, equipped with anchoring systems to maintain its position and orbit. It would incorporate fleets of dropships to move equipment and materials between the station and the surface. If this civilization had become extinct, remains of the space station would be seen orbiting the moon. Depending on their size and material, they would appear as bright spots in the sky or in images captured by observation instruments. If an expansionist extraterrestrial civilization exists, it is possible that they possess the technology to establish habitable sites in their galaxy or nearby galaxies. They would build floating megacities on planets or moons whose atmosphere offers better habitability than the surface. Several moons and planets in the Milky Way may have dense atmospheres that act as shields against cosmic radiation. The surface temperature can be extremely high and uninhabitable. On the contrary, at an altitude of tens of kilometers or miles, temperatures would be more conducive to life. In these dense atmospheres, an advanced civilization would have the ability to build a floating city. It would be supported by huge air balloons, possibly filled with light gases such as helium or hydrogen. It would have the ability to move freely with the prevailing winds. This would allow it to be programmed to follow or escape sunlight, allowing for a natural day and night cycle. It would facilitate the exploration of large areas of the planet or moon without the need for additional space vehicles. A more complex megaconstruction would be a planetary orbit reconfigurer. A galactic colossus of this magnitude would give a civilization the ability to alter the orbits of the planets. It would allow them to optimize habitability, avoid catastrophic collisions, or reorganize a solar system according to energy needs. It would consist of a network of orbital stations strategically positioned around a planet. Each station would be a massive structure, equipped with thermonuclear fusion engines, similar to the processes that occur in the core of stars. Using antimatter as fuel, these engines would generate a large amount of energy. This technology would provide powerful pulses, suitable for rapid orbital changes. We have seen how an advanced civilization would be able to build a Dyson sphere to capture the energy emitted by a star. Black holes, although known for absorbing energy, also radiate it. This is Hawking radiation, which arises due to quantum effects near the event horizon. Additionally, in some black holes an accretion disk forms: a structure of gas, cosmic dust, plasma and other molecules. Sometimes they are formed from material from stars that have been torn apart by their extreme gravitational forces. The heating of matter and the friction between particles generates electromagnetic radiation, which propagates into space. In theory, a type 3 civilization would be able to harness the energy of this accretion disk. These beings would have developed a technological titan, like a ring designed to withstand extreme temperatures and radiation. It would be located at a distance where the radiation intensity is high, but still manageable with advanced technology. It would contain energy converters that transform electromagnetic radiation into usable energy. If this alien civilization has managed to survive for millennia or millions of years, it could have taken even more advantage of black holes. As material moves in the accretion disk, it accelerates due to magnetic interactions and gravity. Moving at speeds close to the speed of light, it launches a stellar torrent of energetic particles into space. This cosmic ray spans thousands or even millions of light years. A type 3 civilization could develop technologies to harness this energy. It would be a cosmic leviathan, a massive structure, placed in the path of energy flow. They would be able to use these stellar torrents as a method of propulsion for their spaceships. By placing ships in their path, they would use their force to reach relativistic speeds, at 99.9 percent of the speed of light. This would make interstellar or intergalactic travel possible. If such an energy beam passed directly through a planet inhabited by an advanced civilization, the consequences would be devastating. By including extremely energetic radiation such as gamma rays and X-rays, it would be lethal to life, destroy the atmosphere or strip it of its ozone layer. It would cause temperatures to rise to levels that would melt the surface or cause ocean evaporation. If Gaia BH1, the black hole closest to humans, had an accretion disk and produced such an energetic jet, it would be highly unlikely to reach Earth. It would have to be with its axis of rotation exactly oriented towards the blue planet. In any case, this black hole is located 1,600 light years away, which would imply that this ray would take at least 1,600 years to arrive. Additionally, as they travel, these phenomena tend to disperse and lose energy. The existence of black holes has been confirmed, in fact, it is believed that there are millions of them in the Milky Way alone. In contrast, wormholes remain theoretical. According to Albert Einstein's General Theory of Relativity, they are physically possible, although they have not been observed. These are tunnels or shortcuts in the space-time fabric that connect two distant points in the universe. A type 3 civilization would have the ability to build a network of wormholes to travel the cosmos. They would be portals that connect star systems, galaxies, or even different universes within the multiverse. A natural wormhole would be so unstable that it would collapse immediately after forming. Keeping it open would require stabilization rings, which use exotic matter to counteract the forces of the wormhole. In theory, it would be possible to enter one end of the wormhole and exit the other. A stabilized network of these stargates would allow civilizations to travel instantly between different parts of the universe. They would be almost impossible to observe if they are in other galaxies, but they could show gravitational effects, and be detected by future human telescopes. If type 3 civilizations created or kept open wormholes, they would likely also have the technology to build immense space fortresses. We can conceive of a galactic ark: a gigantic spaceship with a self-sustaining ecosystem. It would function as a nature reserve, capable of traveling between galaxies to preserve species in danger of extinction due to natural disasters or cosmic changes. It would be a colossal structure, comparable in size to hundreds of Airbus A320s in length and width. It would have a modular design with sections dedicated to different ecosystems, each replicating the environments of different worlds. Huge transparent capsules would provide environments for the rescued extraterrestrial species to settle. The rear of the Ark would have large engines, possibly based on antimatter propulsion or nuclear fusion technology. An alternative proposal for detecting extraterrestrial intelligent life is to observe changes in space-time caused by titanic spacecraft. For it to produce a perceptible alteration in space-time, its mass would have to be extraordinarily large. For comparison, look at the Earth. Its mass curves space around it, creating the force of gravity. However, compared to the rest of the universe, Earth's effect on the curvature of spacetime is quite small. Thus, a spacecraft would require a mass much greater than that of the Earth to bend space-time in a noticeable way. It would be a spacecraft with a mass similar to that of the Sun or even greater. A ship of this mass would act as a gravitational lens, bending the path of light from distant stars and galaxies. This effect would be observable as anomalies in astronomical images when light from distant objects passes near the ship. Another possibility would be extraterrestrial ships that travel at speeds similar to that of light. In theory, exceeding the speed of light is impossible according to the laws of physics. However, hypothetical technologies such as warp drives suggest that bending spacetime is possible. In this way, a ship would traverse an area of compressed space, traveling faster than light without contradicting the theory of relativity. If a ship moves faster than the speed of light, it would cause distortions in the fabric of space-time. These distortions would travel through space as gravitational waves, that would be detected with laser interferometers. Exoplanets A preferable option to find extraterrestrial life is to look for planets in the habitable zone of their stars. The transit method observes the dimming of a star's light as a planet passes through it. Planets that are at the right distance from their star to have liquid water are considered habitable. It is plausible that these exoplanets contain everything from low-evolved beings to civilizations older and more advanced than humanity. The existence of artifacts from extinct civilizations on their surfaces, or orbiting them, is also conceivable . This proposal to locate vestiges of disappeared civilizations is not limited to other stars, but to our own solar system. It is possible that interstellar or intergalactic objects, which have wandered through space for thousands of years, are attracted by the Sun's gravity. They could be ships, remains of them, or parts of megastructures from extraterrestrial civilizations that have been extinct for millennia. Its observation with current telescopes would be viable and, if its existence is confirmed, it would cause a scientific revolution. The likelihood of an exoplanet having intelligent extraterrestrial life depends on a combination of factors, such as the existence of water or the distance from its star. However, certain types of exoplanets are considered especially auspicious. Super-Earths are rocky planets larger and more massive than Earth. If they are in the habitable zone of their star, they are a prime candidate. A larger size implies a dense atmosphere that protects the surface from radiation, allowing chemistry conducive to life. If the planet is stable and has active geology, it would support life for millions or billions of years, increasing the possibility of intelligent life emerging. Other candidates are the twin lands of the habitable zone. These are planets similar to Earth in size and composition. Due to its similarity to Earth, the conditions would be suitable for life, with liquid water and oxygen in the atmosphere. Finally, there are the ocean planets of the habitable zone. They are worlds completely covered by deep oceans of liquid water. The oceans, with their stable conditions, are home to complex life forms. It is possible that on an ocean planet, intelligent life could evolve in the water or on the shores of emerging islands. Let's imagine a race of intelligent extraterrestrial beings that have evolved on such an exoplanet. This planet, called Aqualis, is entirely covered by gigantic oceans, with no emerging land masses. Aqualians have elongated, dolphin-like bodies optimized for swimming at high speeds in their aquatic environment. Their skin is soft, covered by a layer of resistant biopolymer that protects them from the pressure in the ocean depths. Instead of arms and legs, they have flexible fins that extend from their trunk. Their large eyes, similar to those of squids, allow them to see in the darkness of the ocean depths. They do not have a traditional mouth; instead they communicate using bioluminescent light that they emit from their bodies. They breathe through a system of gills that filter the oxygen dissolved in the water with great efficiency. They live in large underwater cities, with all their technology based on marine biology. They grow organisms that generate light energy. They use genetically modified corals to build their homes. Have the aliens arrived yet? Until now we have assumed that aliens have never arrived on Earth, but what if they had already been here? According to very speculative theories, there are works of art that show beings coming from the stars. The theory of ancient astronauts suggests that the Nazca lines, in Peru, were landing points for extraterrestrial spacecraft. According to this hypothesis, these beings brought knowledge to Earth, and after they left, humans built giant figures as messages to them. Other researchers, who have studied these lines for decades, have proposed that the figures are related to astronomical phenomena, but not to extraterrestrials. An additional theory suggests that they were parts of rituals related to water or fertility. Similar are the geoglyphs of Palpa. It is believed that they were part of astronomical calendars, religious ceremonies or that they represented mythical beings. On January 8, 1981, in a small town in the south of France, Renato Nicolai, a 55-year-old farmer, saw a flying object descending rapidly. What he described as a gray saucer landed on his property, which subsequently took off and vanished into the sky. Two large sunken marks were found on the ground. When analyzed, it was shown that the earth was compressed and heated to high temperatures. For its part, there are the crop circles of the United Kingdom. Some have been confirmed as fake, although it is still debated whether others have been made by UFOs. Perhaps the most surprising UFO incident in history is that of Ariel, in Zimbabwe, which occurred in 1994. Approximately 62 children, between 6 and 12 years old, were at recess when they observed two bright objects descend from the sky. According to the testimonies of the children, interviewed separately, small humanoid beings, approximately one meter tall or 3.2 feet, emerged from the object. They were described as beings with large black eyes and gray skin. Some researchers believe the children were telling the truth and had an encounter with extraterrestrial beings, while others believe it was mass hysteria. Bob Lazar, an alleged former contractor who worked at a facility known as S-4, made several shocking claims. In 2019 he stated that he saw ships that were not of modern origin, but had been recovered from ancient archaeological excavations. This indicates that the ships would be thousands or even millions of years old. According to Lazar, these ships contained advanced technology far ahead of what humans are capable of developing. He described in detail a propulsion system based on gravity manipulation. The presence of extraterrestrial spacecraft at archaeological sites would suggest that Earth has been visited by intelligent beings from other worlds in prehistoric times. It would force historians to reconsider many aspects of human history, the origin of certain cultures, technologies and mythologies. It is also possible that these ships are not from aliens, but from advanced civilizations that lived on Earth before known history. At some point, thousands or millions of years before our recorded history, an advanced technological civilization may have existed. Certain cultures have myths of advanced civilizations that were lost, such as Atlantis. They would not be just myths, but distorted memories of these ancient civilizations. This would imply that what we consider mythology is based on historical facts. These advanced civilizations were perhaps wiped out by a global disaster, such as an asteroid or nuclear conflict. This hypothesis assumes that a human-like species achieved a high degree of civilization in the past, only to be rebooted after a global disaster. This suggests that technological and social evolution follows a cycle, and that current civilization could disappear. Another option is that some survivors of this extinct civilization transmitted knowledge to future generations, influencing current cultures. What would aliens be like? We have explored what the technologies of advanced extraterrestrial civilizations would be like. And what would their worlds be like? What would these entities be like physically? The possibility of humanoid aliens has been established in science fiction and human beliefs. However, is this possible? According to the hypothesis of convergent evolution, it is, under certain circumstances. This is a phenomenon in which unrelated organisms develop similar physical characteristics. Sharks and dolphins, for example, have similar shapes, although one is a fish and the other a mammal. Thus, it is possible that similar living beings emerge in exoplanet environments similar to ours. On a specific type of planet, intelligent life could be extremely common. These are superhabitable worlds, which have better conditions for life than Earth itself. They orbit orange dwarfs; stars with a lifespan longer than the Sun. The planets that orbit these types of stars have much more time for advanced civilizations to develop. But for a planet to be superhabitable it has to meet other conditions. First of all, it should be older than the Earth, which is about 4.5 billion years old. In this way, life would have had more time to evolve and diversify. In addition, a superhabitable planet would have to be larger and have greater mass than Earth, since this is supposed to increase biodiversity. It would have a global ocean that covers most of its surface, with scattered continents and archipelagos. The global climate would be warm and humid, less variable than on Earth. The vegetation would have a higher density and extension. Of the billions of planets in the Milky Way, at least tens of millions are superhabitable, if conservative estimates are made. If an extraterrestrial species had evolved in one of them, adapting in a similar way to humans, what would its appearance be like? Let's imagine a superhabitable world located hundreds of light years from Earth: Oceana. 90 percent of its surface is covered by oceans, with three geographically and biologically distinct continents. Due to the optimal conditions for life, tropical forests in Oceana have more biodiversity than those on Earth. The giant trees form a canopy that is almost impenetrable to sunlight. There are millions of species of living beings. We could imagine one of its non-intelligent beings, Simiaflorens arboris, with dense blue-green fur, fluorescent in the dark. Its skin is water resistant, allowing it to move easily in the humid jungle environment. Its rounded head, with large, mobile ears, allows it to pick up sounds at long distances. Its large eyes provide exceptional panoramic and night vision. In other regions there are enormous mountains, exceeding 10 thousand meters or 33 thousand miles. Shallow seas are ideal for the development of rich marine biodiversity. Hippocamporus luminae would have iridescent blue scaly skin, which turns on and off to communicate. The large, mobile eyes allow it to have a wide view of its surroundings. Oceana's atmosphere is abundant in oxygen and water vapor, creating a warm and humid global climate. Gravity would probably be greater than on Earth. This would imply that if there are humanoid intelligent beings, they are likely to be short and stocky. The skull would be strong, to help protect the brain from impacts and stresses caused by gravity. The brain would be large in relation to body size, a possible, although not definitive, sign of high intelligence. The arms and legs would be short, designed to support weight in a high-gravity environment. The visible light emitted by an orange dwarf tends to be less intense than that emitted by our Sun, so the environment would be somewhat dark. This would cause beings to evolve large eyes, to better capture light. The respiratory organs would allow breathing in a dense atmosphere, even through the skin. It would have small ears or ears close to the skull, to reduce the possibility of injury. The skin would have a color between brown and olive green, adapted to the lower but constant ultraviolet radiation of an orange dwarf. It seems incredible that beings so similar to us have evolved on another planet in our universe, but it is possible. It is interesting to explore what beings on superhabitable planets with lower gravity than Earth would be like. Let's imagine Levitas, with less density than our world, due to its low amount of heavy metals. It orbits an orange dwarf, just like Oceana. It has an atmosphere with a lot of oxygen and argon, improving the breathing of its inhabitants. Their flying beings have large, light wings, adapted to make the most of air currents and lower gravity. They are capable of flying for long periods, without becoming fatigued. The oceans of Levites are vast, but shallow. Sunlight creates ecosystems with abundant marine life. Due to lower gravity, the mountains reach heights of up to 15 thousand meters or 49 thousand feet. The trees in its jungles grow up to 300 meters or 984 feet. The forest floor is covered in luminescent plants that emit light in the dark. Levite humanoids would generally be taller than humans. With a slightly larger head in proportion to the body, supporting a large brain. They would have large eyes, adapted to maximize light collection. The arms would be long, culminating in hands with thin and extensive fingers. The legs would be long and thin, designed to walk effectively in their reduced gravity. Their skin would have a slightly elastic texture, with the ability to change tone to adapt to environmental conditions. The danger of contact Active SETI has sent various messages to stars located dozens of light years away. There is also METI International, which has sent messages to red dwarfs, searching for advanced civilizations. But certain scientists do not agree with these actions. They argue that sending messages to possible advanced civilizations, revealing the location of the Earth, should be a cause for international consultation. By transmitting messages to other stars, the precautionary principle would be violated. There is no evidence of hostile extraterrestrial civilizations, but if they existed and knew where we were, it could be catastrophic. Other scientists counterargue that not trying to contact extraterrestrial civilizations is risky. Their knowledge would save us from humanity's self-destructive tendencies. On the other hand, certain scientists maintain that intergalactic extraterrestrial civilizations would be peaceful. A key figure in this debate, Stephen Hawking, expressed the risk of communicating with extraterrestrials. He believed that sending signals into space could attract advanced and dangerous civilizations to our planet. He thought that a contact between humans and extraterrestrials would be similar to historical encounters between human civilizations, where the less advanced ones were harmed. Under this reasoning, an extraterrestrial civilization that discovers Earth would exploit its resources without taking humans into account. An extraterrestrial race with hundreds or thousands of years of advantage would be highly advanced in technology and cooperation strategies. For beings from a type 3 civilization, facing humans would be a mere pastime. They would have directed energy weapons, used from huge platforms or spacecraft. They would use lasers or plasma beams to vaporize critical structures, such as government centers or military infrastructure. It would be a coordinated attack, to simultaneously deactivate defense and communication capabilities , sowing chaos, avoiding any form of response. Armed with antimatter, they would unleash energy blasts of unimaginable power. A device the size of a ball would annihilate an entire city, with the force of several nuclear bombs, but without radioactivity. Such a weapon would be used to eliminate large urban centers, drastically weakening the economic power of a country. On the other hand, by altering specific environmental conditions , this civilization would have the capacity to induce natural disasters. It would have the capacity to increase the temperature of the atmosphere, triggering hurricanes or storms of catastrophic proportions. They would manipulate tectonic plates to cause devastating earthquakes and tsunamis in strategic areas, such as large coastal cities. Perhaps they would have technologies like nanobots, capable of breaking down steel and causing infrastructure to collapse. Worse yet, they could design them to infiltrate humans and cause disease, incapacitating the population without destroying resources. The generation of strong gravitational fields or micro black holes would be used to destroy infrastructure or devour entire cities. However, the danger goes beyond the weapons of unknown civilizations. Even if it were peaceful, contact with extraterrestrials could unleash diseases against which humans would be defenseless. An extraterrestrial virus would have a completely different transmission mechanism than any pathogen we know. It would be adapted to spread through air, water, or even by means not commonly found in terrestrial viruses. Since humans would have no immunity against such agents, the infection rate would be extremely high. The importance of human expansion Stephen Hawking thought that staying on Earth is too risky if humanity wants to survive for millennia. He believed that sooner or later a mass extinction event will occur. There is a risk that super-intelligent AI will become autonomous and see humans as unnecessary. A nuclear war would lead to the destruction of much of life on Earth and a possible nuclear winter. Smoke and particles released into the atmosphere would block sunlight, triggering a nuclear winter and causing crops to collapse. Hawking also pointed to an asteroid impact as a potential threat. The probability of an event of such severity in the short term is small, but in the next 10 thousand years it is almost certain. Considering that the human species is about 300 thousand years old, 10 thousand years does not seem like that long. Thus, for Hawking, until human beings expand to other moons or planets, they run a great risk of becoming extinct. Traveling to space will increase the chances of survival. It is estimated that between 5 and 50 billion species of animals have existed throughout Earth's history. However, the vast majority of these species, approximately 99%, have become extinct. Another factor to consider is the inevitable fate of our Sun. Although it is millions of years away from expanding and probably engulfing the Earth, this event guarantees that our planet will not be habitable indefinitely. Building spaceships that transport thousands of people to other planets is a complex, although necessary, mission. In the short term, establishing a colony on the Moon is considered more feasible. The first builds will likely be prefabricated modules shipped from Earth, with basic life support. In the long term, by 2100, a colony could consist of several interconnected domes. An alternative is underground habitats, designed to protect against harsh surface conditions. There would be an extensive network of lunar tunnels, taking advantage of ancient lava tubes, or excavated with drilling machines. Colonizing Mars will be a very ambitious endeavor. It is at a noticeably greater distance, with an average distance of 225 million kilometers or 140 million miles. A one-way trip would take between 6 and 9 months. But before human-manned travel, robotic missions will be essential. They will aim to build key infrastructure, such as habitats and energy systems. The day of the arrival of the first human will be a delicate step on the Martian soil, but an immense progress in space exploration. The objective will be to establish a fixed human base, which will expand until it becomes a self-sustaining colony. The first manned missions will involve enormous risk and a return will not be guaranteed. Many space explorers will decide to stay at their destination and not return to Earth. In the long term, if the initial colonies are successful, efforts will be made to expand these habitats to small towns. There will be space stations from which weekly or monthly flights depart to the Moon or Earth. When the first self-sustaining Martian city is established, the slow process of terraforming may begin. The Martian environment will be modified to be Earth-like, which will pose technological and logistical challenges. As several centuries passed, and the gradual introduction of plants and other organisms, complex ecosystems would begin to develop. If humanity persists, it will develop the ability to leave the solar system. An antimatter-powered ship would travel at a fraction of the speed of light, reaching Alpha Centauri within a few decades. Another option is to use starships designed to sustain several human generations during the journey. If these interstellar vehicles used nuclear propulsion technology, with greater power than chemical rockets, it would take about thirteen hundred years. An alternative would be the voyage of a few explorers in cryosleep, something that would require advances in medical technology. One proposal for faster-than-light travel is a warp drive, which would bend space-time around the ship. With this technology amazing situations would arise. When traveling in a spaceship at speeds close to the speed of light, Earthlings would experience time dilation. As the ship approaches the speed of light, time on board passes more slowly than on Earth. Upon returning to Earth, space travelers will have lived only a few decades, while thousands of years will have passed on Earth. Centuries or millennia from now, humans could face encounters with extraterrestrial civilizations in their own solar systems. Space diplomacy would be essential, requiring protocols to interact with advanced civilizations. By then, humans may have evolved into a type 3 civilization, capable of controlling the Milky Way. It is possible that evolution leads humans to increase their pacifism. Although it could also adopt an aggressive stance, starting interstellar wars with other civilizations. As humanity expands, colonies are likely to gradually become self-sufficient. Isolated cities in other areas of the Milky Way, developed over millennia, would forget their terrestrial roots. Evolving uniquely due to varied environmental conditions. The Earth would no longer be the center of human civilization and would be less protected. At some point a mass extinction event is likely to occur. Human beings could become extinct on their planet of birth, but exist in other parts of the universe. Descendants of humans who inhabit other planets or moons would have the ability to return. Modern buildings in large cities like New York or Dubai, built with steel and concrete, are susceptible to corrosion and deterioration. On the other hand, ancient constructions such as the pyramids of Egypt, made of limestone and granite, are more durable. In fact, they have already resisted several millennia. If these future humans lack a historical connection to Earth, they may believe they are the works of an extinct extraterrestrial civilization. Without a clear historical context, they would misinterpret, perhaps mythologize, what really happened on Earth. The risk of being a trapped civilization In the immense Milky Way there could be civilizations that reach a certain technological development, being unable to continue its advance. Technological progress would be slowed down by a lack of innovation, extreme regulation or the complexity of what remains to be discovered. Internal conflicts or poor governance would trigger social crises or wars. At the same time, civilizations would be growing unevenly and with varied technological developments. Those that achieve interstellar travel and colonization technologies first would have the ability to control wide areas of the cosmos. They would establish barriers for the development of other civilizations. A confinement to a home star system would restrict access to essential resources from other planets or asteroids, stalling technological progress. Civilizations that control multiple star systems would impose conditions, exercising a kind of cosmic imperialism. They would dictate how confined civilizations should operate within their own limits. However, oppression by imperialist civilizations is not necessarily a permanent destiny. Less developed civilizations would seek to forge alliances with their cosmic neighbors to confront advanced civilizations. Leadership, diplomacy and alliances would be essential in negotiations between trapped civilizations. The evolutionary future of humans If future humans colonize other planets or moons, contact between the different colonies is likely to be lost. The immense distance between stars and planetary systems would ensure a high degree of isolation. The decisions made by these human groups will guide the evolution of the species. Higher or lower gravity would alter physical appearance, while atmospheres with different compositions would affect respiratory and circulatory physiology. Under natural evolution, hundreds of thousands of years would be necessary for changes to be evident at a biological level. But with the intervention of advanced genetic modification technologies, the process would be greatly shortened. In this situation galactic history would reach a fascinating point. If these civilizations of human origin meet, they might have forgotten that they have a common ancestor. The forgetting or loss of historical sources would prevent them from being recognized as descendants of a common species. Each group would view the other as truly extraterrestrial, perhaps generating distrust or even hostility. Each colony would develop its own solutions to unique challenges, increasing the differences. Genetic adaptations designed to survive in hostile environments would be viewed with suspicion or fascination. The development of entirely new dialects and languages would complicate any attempt at reunification. Does human beings come from the stars? It is believed that life on Earth appeared about 4 billion years ago. However, it is not known how exactly it started. The theory of abiogenesis or primordial soup proposes that it began in a broth of chemical compounds from Earth's primitive oceans. Another theory suggests that it began in the deep ocean, near hydrothermal vents. More disturbing is the theory of panspermia, which postulates that life is present throughout the Universe and spreads through asteroids or space dust. The Martian meteorite Allan Hills 84001 has been identified, although without scientific consensus, as carrying microfossils of extraterrestrial origin. Directed intentional panspermia elaborates on the idea; maintains that life on Earth was intentionally originated by advanced extraterrestrial civilizations. This civilization would have chosen Earth because of its favorable conditions for life or for another reason that we do not know. Small automated ships would have been sent to deposit microorganisms on Earth. They could also employ advanced technologies to send genetic information. Some scientists have argued that certain Aspects of terrestrial biology are consistent with this idea. All organisms on Earth use DNA or RNA as genetic material, indicating a possible common origin from an external source. Furthermore, life appears to have appeared relatively quickly in geological terms after the formation of the Earth, which some believe is due to targeted seeding. If directed panspermia were true, it would mean that we are not alone or at least that intelligent life has existed before. What would the first contact be like? What if contact with extraterrestrials finally occurs? SETI has established a protocol in case signs of a civilization are detected. When faced with a suspicious signal, its authenticity must be confirmed before making it public, collaborating with other researchers. If the verification process confirms that the signal comes from extraterrestrial intelligence, the scientific community will be informed. Importantly, the signal would not be responded to without the consent of a representative international group, such as the United Nations. What if there is direct contact? What if an extraterrestrial civilization with thousands of years of advantage arrives on Earth? First of all, many questions would arise: are they dangerous? How did they arrive? How do we communicate with them? An encounter with a type 3 civilization would be almost incomprehensible to humans. Like a prehistoric human finding a smartphone; I wouldn't know how to use it or understand how it works. Sharing knowledge with such an advanced civilization would transform our understanding of physics, biology and engineering. But it would have to be a carefully managed exchange, to avoid unbalancing global power. If one nation received technology and others did not, global tensions would be unleashed. The effects on society would be equally transformative. It would unite humanity under a common sense of identity, although it could also be divisive, depending on how governments and societies respond. Religions would be questioned or reinterpreted to include the existence of other forms of intelligent life. Communication with extraterrestrial beings would be handled with extreme care. Messages of peace would be transmitted, with the intention of better understanding their intentions. Communication would be gradual, carefully monitored to avoid misunderstandings. If these beings are much more technologically, biologically and culturally advanced, they would probably adapt their communication so that humans understand it. Mathematics and physics would be a way to transmit information, since they are sciences with universal principles. But what if the visitors who contact us are not extraterrestrials, but intelligent beings from other dimensions? The multiverse The multiverse theory suggests that our universe is not unique, but one of many existing universes. If this is true, it is possible that each universe has its own fundamental laws of physics. For example, the force of gravity in another universe would be weaker, affecting how galaxies, stars, and planets form and evolve. In turn, the number and types of elementary particles would change from one universe to another. This means that matter and energy would behave very differently. The universes of the multiverse could also vary in size and age, some younger or older than our own. A fascinating theory is that the dimensions of space and time do not coincide. While our universe has three spatial dimensions and one temporal dimension, other universes could have a different number of dimensions. This would mean a radical change in living conditions. It is difficult to obtain direct evidence of the multiverse, since their universes would be separated by great distances. Even due to differences in dimensions or physical laws that prevent any interaction between them. String theory is one of the possible explanations. According to this series of hypotheses, particles are a kind of strings. The different ways they vibrate would create different physical laws, supporting the idea of multiple universes. To make it more complex, the many-worlds theory of quantum mechanics posits that all possible histories and futures are real and exist in a large multiverse. When measuring a quantum property or making a decision, the universe branches into multiple parallel universes, one for each possible outcome. For example, in our universe a meteorite wiped out the dinosaurs, giving mammals and humans the opportunity to evolve and dominate the planet. But in a parallel universe, the meteorite never hit Earth. Dinosaurs did not become extinct and continued to be the dominant form of life. Some scientists think that dinosaurs like Troodon, which already showed mental abilities, could have evolved to higher levels of intelligence. Within the framework of the concept of the multiverse, it is conceivable that life forms very different from those we know may emerge. Should they be called aliens? Or is the correct term interdimensional beings? Let's imagine a universe within the multiverse: Luminarion. Here light influences everything: from how creatures evolve to how technology works. In our universe it takes energy to make something glow, but in Luminarion atoms and molecules easily emit light. An intelligent civilization would be adapted to living in a world where light is an integral part of its biology, technology and culture. Possibly they would be tall beings, with elongated bodies to absorb light from the environment. His luminous skin would change with flashes that indicate his emotional state, intentions or health. The head would be large, optimized to contain an advanced brain, necessary to process a large amount of visual and light information. These beings would show emotions, intentions or interact with others in their light language. They could absorb energy directly from the environment. They would have large, complex multicellular eyes, capable of detecting multiple colors and frequencies of light. They would be able to adjust their eyes and other organs to the changing light throughout the day. If these beings discovered how to transcend physical barriers and interact with other universes, they could contact us. In this situation, the repercussions would be greater than those of an encounter with aliens. Would we be able to identify them as beings from other dimensions? What consequences would it have for humanity and our universe? The Roswell case: Cover-up or myth? This is the most fascinating case about aliens supposedly visiting Earth. On July 3, 1947, William &quot;Mack&quot; Brazel, a local rancher, found unusual remains scattered on his property after a thunderstorm. They intrigued him enough to take them to the town of Roswell, where he reported the find to the local sheriff. The sheriff, in turn, contacted the nearby Roswell military base, due to the possibility that the remains were related to military operations. On July 8, the base's press officer, Lieutenant Walter Haut, issued a statement stating that they had recovered a flying saucer. However, within hours, the military retracted its initial statement, stating that the debris was from a crashed weather balloon. Colonel William Blanchard, commander of the base, organized a press conference to show off the supposedly recovered remains. This abrupt change in narrative raised suspicions. Why would a simple weather balloon be mistaken for a flying saucer? Over time, other details about the incident began to emerge, some of them contradictory. Several witnesses claimed to have seen small, strange-looking bodies among the wreckage, which gave rise to theories about the recovery of extraterrestrials. One of the first testimonies was that of Mack Brazel himself, who initially described the remains as materials he had never seen before. Although later, under pressure from the army, he claimed that it was simply a weather balloon. Another key testimony is that of Jesse Marcel, an intelligence officer from the Roswell base who was present at the recovery of the remains. Marcel was one of the first to handle the fragments and, according to his story, he realized that they did not correspond to any known terrestrial material. Years later, Marcel maintained that the government had covered up the true nature of the remains, suggesting that it was an extraterrestrial spacecraft. Another testimony is from Glenn Dennis, a funeral home employee who said he had been called by the Roswell base to supply small airtight coffins. According to Dennis, the military wanted to know how to preserve bodies that had been exposed to the elements. It seems paradoxical that extraterrestrial beings capable of traveling from distant stars crash on Earth. But several theories have emerged to try to explain this apparent contradiction. Like humans, aliens would be susceptible to technical errors or mechanical failures in their ships. The distance and time of travel would have caused wear and tear on the ship, or an unforeseen event such as a thunderstorm. Additionally, aliens would be susceptible to operational errors, similar to human errors that occur in terrestrial aviation. Another explanation is that Earth could present unexpected atmospheric, magnetic or gravitational conditions for extraterrestrials. Upon encountering these unforeseen conditions, the ship's systems would have failed as they were not prepared for Earth's atmosphere. Some theorists suggest that the extraterrestrial craft were shot down, voluntarily or involuntarily, by some type of Earth defense system. Another theory speculates that the accident was a setup, made by extraterrestrials or humans, to study reactions or spread misinformation. This theory suggests that the accident could have been part of an experiment or a strategy to manipulate public perception. Area 51: What do we really know about this top secret base? According to some versions, the remains and bodies of the aliens who crashed in Roswell were transferred to Area 51 for study. It is speculated that the United States government has conducted experiments with extraterrestrial spacecraft at this facility. The origin of these rumors is traced back to the 1950s, when reports of UFO sightings near the base began to emerge. In many cases these sightings are explained by the tests of experimental aircraft such as the U-2 and the A-12 OXCART. But the secrecy surrounding Area 51 fostered the belief that something much more extraordinary was occurring. The testimony of Bob Lazar in 1989, who said he had worked on a top-secret project in S-4, near Area 51, was key to these rumors spreading. According to Lazar, this facility was attempting to reverse engineer recovered extraterrestrial spacecraft. Lazar described in detail how these ships operated, stating that they used a form of antigravitational propulsion. Element 115, not discovered until 2004, would be the fuel for the ships. For many, his revelations were the proof they needed to believe that the US government was in possession of extraterrestrial technology. However, there are also those who consider that Lazar is a fabulist or that he was used as part of a disinformation campaign by the government. Added to Lazar's testimony, there are other stories that reinforce the theory that extraterrestrial ships are stored in Area 51. For example, some former employees and contractors of the base have stated, under anonymity, having seen objects that could not be attributed to any known Earth technology. Others argue that these theories about extraterrestrial spacecraft were promoted to divert attention from the real secret projects. The government could have used the fascination with UFOs as a smokescreen to protect the development of advanced military technologies. Since it began operating in 1955, everyone knew about the existence of area 51, but the United States government never officially recognized it. In recent years there has been a gradual process of declassification of related documents. The crucial moment in this process took place in 2013, when a set of documents was declassified that officially recognized the existence of Area 51. According to these documents, this base was selected as a test site due to its remote location and arid climate, ideal for the flight of experimental aircraft. The declassification of these documents was a step towards transparency, but it also made clear that much of what happens at Area 51 remains secret. Operation Majestic 12: A secret committee to deal with aliens? In 1984, documents appeared for the first time that supposedly revealed the existence of a secret committee called Majestic 12. It would have been created by order of President Harry Truman to handle issues related to extraterrestrials, after recovering the remains of the Roswell ship. According to the documents, Majestic 12 included military officers and government officials, who were responsible for the recovery and analysis of extraterrestrial craft. It would contain alleged orders on the handling of information related to extraterrestrials, along with disinformation and media control strategies. The committee was supposedly tasked with establishing and maintaining contact with beings from other worlds. Over the years, the authenticity of the Majestic 12 documents has been questioned. Some argue that the documents contain technical and operational details that are difficult to invent by someone without access to classified information. Witnesses who worked in the government have supported some aspects, lending weight to the idea that they could be genuine. But the lack of evidence and the existence of errors in the documentation have led many to conclude that it is an elaborate forgery. Certain researchers have explained that they were created as part of a disinformation campaign by the government itself. Black Projects: Advanced Human Technology or Extraterrestrial Reverse Engineering? These top-secret projects arose in the Cold War, a time of technological and military rivalry between the United States and the Soviet Union. The need to develop advanced technologies and keep them secret became essential to ensure military superiority. Although this war did not erupt into direct military conflict, both nations engaged in an arms and technological race. The development of advanced military technologies, such as intercontinental ballistic missiles , spy planes, and detection systems, became a top priority. Due to the sensitive nature of these developments, it was crucial that they were carried out in as much secrecy as possible to prevent information from falling into enemy hands. This is where the need for Black Projects arose. One of the first was the development of the U-2 spy plane, which flew at high altitudes to avoid detection by Soviet radars. As the Cold War progressed, projects became more ambitious, including the development of stealth technology to make aircraft invisible to radar. Throughout the Cold War, the culture of secrecy was consolidated within the United States military-industrial complex. Secret projects became standard practice for developing technologies that were considered critical to national security. With the end of the Cold War, many of these projects continued, now focused on emerging threats and maintaining US technological supremacy. Advanced propulsion technology has been speculated about for decades. According to some theories, certain technological advances arose from the reverse engineering of extraterrestrial spacecraft recovered in incidents such as Roswell. But skeptics maintain that all technological advances in propulsion are the result of decades of research. They point out that the science behind these technologies, although advanced, is understandable within the framework of known physical laws. The Wilson document: Evidence of a high-level cover-up? This document consists of detailed notes from an alleged conversation in 2002 between Admiral Thomas Wilson and Doctor Eric Davis. It describes Wilson's attempts to access classified information about top-secret programs involving extraterrestrial technology. During the conversation, Wilson mentions that he was informed about a special program dedicated to recovering and studying the technology of an alien ship. He tried to use his position to gain access to these programs, but was met with strong resistance. The documents describe the existence of a very small group of people who managed these top-secret programs, isolated even within the Pentagon itself. Those responsible for the program, according to Wilson, believed that the recovered ships were not of terrestrial origin. Despite years of attempts, progress in reverse engineering this technology was slow and fraught with difficulties. Defenders of the authenticity of the document argue that it is one of the evidence that attempts are being made to replicate extraterrestrial technology. Skeptics question the authenticity of the document, pointing out that extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. If the Wilson Document is genuine, its repercussions are enormous. It would imply that an elite in government and private industry has kept essential information about extraterrestrial technology hidden for years. The global cover-up: International cooperation to hide the truth? In recent history, there are indications that several nations have collaborated in investigating the UFO phenomenon. They are initiatives that would have been created to investigate these sightings and hide any evidence of extraterrestrial life. During the Cold War, the Soviet Union launched a secret program known as &quot;Project SETKA&quot;, intended to investigate unidentified aerial phenomena. Initially, they believed that the UFOs were American spy planes, although unexplained cases were also analyzed. It is believed that after the fall of the Soviet Union, Russia continued this project in collaboration with other nations, under new names and with a global focus. The intelligence alliance known as &quot;Five Eyes&quot; is another case of international cooperation in security matters. Member countries share information on various topics, such as terrorism, cybersecurity and global threats. Some propose that this network would have been used to share and hide information about UFO sightings and extraterrestrial technology. Although it has not been confirmed, there are rumors that the UN has also established a task force dedicated to UFO research. The highly secret nature of all these projects would be intended to prevent the public disclosure of any important findings. The declassification of UFO documents has reinforced theories of a global cover-up of extraterrestrial contact. A key example is &quot;Project Blue Book,&quot; a US Air Force program that investigated UFOs from 1952 to 1969. Although much of the information was made public, there are indications that the most interesting cases were kept secret. The project determined that most sightings were due to natural phenomena or human aircraft, although some cases remain unexplained. Declassified documents from the former Soviet Union, as well as the UK Ministry of Defence, also suggest a pattern of cover-up. In both cases, governments actively investigated the UFO sightings, but publicly downplayed their significance. In the United Kingdom, the &quot;X Files,&quot; declassified in 2008, revealed decades of UFO research. However, the government always denied that these objects represented a threat to national security. Knowing this history, it is very likely that there are currently secret or ultra-secret projects carried out by governments of different countries. Some governments fund advanced scientific research that can have both civilian and military implications. Emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence or quantum computing, are often under secret programs for their ability to alter the global balance. Surveillance satellites are also often in secret programs, as they provide key information on military movements and installations. Are governments even more concerned about UFOs or the existence of extraterrestrial civilizations that they already know about? It is impossible to answer these questions, but perhaps in the future new documents that will surprise us will be declassified again. We do not know if we are alone, if intelligent extraterrestrial civilizations are in other stars, in other galaxies, are already extinct, or if they exist in other universes. But there is one certainty. Both future contact and extinction without having discovered other civilizations are equally alarming.