- When a recipe tells you do you actually do it? Do you wait for the oven to fully preheat or do you just pop the you know, hot enough? What about the broiler? Do you just turn it and hope for the best? You probably know you (upbeat music) When an oven's turned on, They heat the walls of the oven and the walls radiate There's a thermometer tucked in there, and when the air reaches the heating elements turn off and there's some sort of indicator, a light or a sound, that tells It's a good idea to use an that your oven doesn't and keep in mind that it's to fluctuate above and below I really only worry if the temp is off by more than, say, 15 or 20 degrees. If you want a recipe to turn out right, little steps like waiting or moving a rack up or down two inches, are just as essential for success as getting your mise en place right. Let's take a look at the mistake of skipping these steps. All of our recipes that require an oven contain the phrase &quot;adjust and &quot;heat oven to X degrees.&quot; Now, we phrase it like this to move that rack when it's cool and that rack position, how quickly your food Let's look at some pizzas to see exactly how much of a difference I'm making Andrew and his recipe calls for four to five inches from Then, a pizza stone goes on top and the oven is heated to 500 degrees. Now once that whole setup is hot, I'll slip a pizza on there and it's gonna cook until and begins to brown. If I had used say, the is that the crust is gonna before that cheese was right. By setting that rack up high, we're taking advantage of the heat being radiated down by the ceiling. The closer this pizza is to that ceiling, the more heat the top of the pie sees, and that's really important It's on a stone, and that stone cooks the dough really quickly. We don't want to be waiting on the cheese. Okay, enough talk. Time for pizza. (upbeat music) This cheese is nice and melty. I love the little bits of browning. And look at that crust. Gorgeous, right? Now, of course, there that don't require a stone. I developed a recipe for and it's got a really thick crust. I want the oven rack at the very bottom so that the heat from the oven floor helps the dough rise and cook. But just as critically that far down, the cheese won't burn When it comes to how food recipes tend to assume that you know that the food should be This lets walls of the Now if you've got, say, two cake pans, you wanna make sure you halfway through baking. Let's move on to the heat oven to X degrees. (upbeat music) Most ovens take about and that 15 minutes, it It is so tempting to Here's a quick demo to see what happens when we don't wait for I've got two ovens and one The other, it's still heating up. Let's toast some almonds and see what happens. After seven minutes, these Electric or dual-fuel on the top and bottom. When you turn on the oven, until the oven reaches the set temp. Then, the top element shuts off while the bottom one cycles on and off to maintain the oven temp. It's only at this stage that and ready to use. Putting food in before &quot;Let's maintain this will make the food see way If you're baking a cake, If you're toasting nuts, And for those of you who have gas ovens, where there isn't an element it's still important to If you get food in too soon, but that doesn't mean your Your oven isn't hot enough, and if you're making, say, cookies, you'll find that the because the cookies Cakes and breads may not get Meats and vegetables won't that the recipe provides. Why deal with bad food when you can just wait a few minutes? All it takes to avoid these mistakes is a little planning and some patience. Now, while we're chatting let's talk about two broilers and fans. (upbeat music) The bake setting is the but broil and convection You can think of this flashlight as one tiny portion of your broiler. When your food is up close to the broiler, it's gonna see intense concentrated heat in a really well-defined area. Any food outside of this little circle, it's not getting much heat, but as you put more distance between the food and your broiler, that heat becomes more which is great for even cooking. I developed a recipe for broiled zucchini with garlicy yogurt, and in that recipe, I was after a lot of different There are two things I do to make sure that the zucchini doesn't First, rather than slicing and break it into large uneven pieces. Second, I set the rack a tiny bit closer to the boiler than you might expect. This way, some of the some will just cook through, and some will be fully cooked and tender. After it comes out of the oven, and serve it on top of a creamy dressing. (lively music) The thing I love about this just how flavorful zucchini can be. There are the large pieces like this one or this guy tucked back here, and they're just al dente, just cooked through enough But my favorite pieces are that have a little bit of char on them. That char kind of plays nicely with the creaminess of the dressing and the zucchini is so much than you would expect. I love this salad, side, whatever. As for convection, not but if you do, here's what what that fan does and how to use it. Manufacturers will tell you that with that convection setting on, you can bake on multiple racks without having to switch that you get better browning and that food cooks through faster. They're basing this claim keeps the air in the oven which keeps the heat even and helps dry out the surface of the food. I tested all of these claims You can bake multiple but they don't turn out exactly the same as when you're using a still oven because they're heating up differently. You can get better browning when roasting, but how much better it'll on the size and the shape of your roast. Convection settings do speed up cooking, but how much time you save Cookies will only go while a whole chicken will be If you wanna use to reduce the temperature by 25 degrees and to keep an eye on the food. And remember, a fan's effectiveness is recipe and food specific. Take the time to jot how long it took, and Then, the next time you make that dish, you'll have the information you need to make the appropriate adjustments. Next time you turn on your oven, remember these three things. One, whether you're baking, take the time to adjust the oven rack and center your food on that rack. Two, let your oven fully heat before you put the food in there. Three, if you're reduce the oven Alright, be honest. When a recipe tells you to move How many times have you a little too soon? Let me know in the comments below, and if you enjoyed this video, and consider subscribing to our channel. You can find more great at cooksillustrated.com.