Even by the age of only 10 years old, Gisele other children. At the school she attended in she'd constantly overhear rumours being spread father weren't her real parents. Gisele began real parents, or even that she was the child of and shunned by children her own age. It took courage to ask her mother about it, to which it. When Gisele was four years old, she had been "You spoke German. But now, you are French." to tell her anything else for the rest of her parents' room for answers about her true origins tucked away in a drawer and kept a secret from answers about where she'd really come from. Gisele to burn her birth certificate when she there was no record of the truth. She had she needed to get rid of what she had uncovered to live a life all of her own. She found her true in 1972, married a chemistry student named Justin Niango. The couple bought up an old it into a house, and had four children: But the dark secret of her own birth, and had hanging over herself were catching up. worried that the revelation that she was adopted Gisele's adoptive mother and father. But Gisele revealed the truth. Shocked, her that she simply didn't have answers to, According to the birth certificate and adoption born in Bar-le-Duc, another area in the she reached out to the Arolsen Archives in of her in their organization's records. The for tracing documentation that links to those who the Holocaust, and those who lived in regions the contain around 30 million documents recovered from the Nazi's horrific abuses of human beings, were displaced as a result of their actions. not only received a response from the but what they had discovered about her completely Gisele hadn't been born in Bar-le-Duc; in but near Liege, in Belgium. And that wasn't all... her own history, Gisele Marc had uncovered a truth believed about herself to waver. Her children had, classes, and often received cruel mockery from had even confronted the children and parents she had discovered that, after defending had been born as a result of one of the most The maternity home at the Chateau de Wegimont the SS, the paramilitary arm of Adolf Hitler and of approximately six million Jewish people, the Holocaust. The Nazis' deplorable exploits Their ideology had been built on beliefs with their ultimate goal being the creation of other races of people from existence. And part of was through what was known as the Lebensborn the Nazis employed to rapidly create their of children that they deemed to have 'good blood'... was one of the thousands of children This is the horrifying reality of what really the Nazis' top-secret baby breeding factories. to 'the wellspring of life' or 'the fountain of create the foundations for many future generations direct result of the Nazis' racial ideology, leader thought of himself as a profound who shared his views that he had the key to According to Hitler, people's characteristic their abilities, behaviors, and attitudes, makeup.' It was his belief that almost all through subsequent generations, and that no way A lot of Hitler's and the Nazis' views were late 19th century, and ideas that human beings to certain races, each with their own inherent from outward appearance to physical strength, military prowess and appreciation for culture. theories from eugenicists, and a number of their ideas like 'racial hygiene.' In fact, one of the fixed, and that any societal problems - including poverty - were the result of hereditary factors. with massive environmental, societal, and economic born more likely to commit a crime because of lack of access to affordable education, more likely to be contributing factors. ideas related to eugenics and racial hygiene consciousness. Hitler encouraged his followers combined with racism and antisemitism. The Nazis that hereditary traits were the cause of what they aimed to not only develop biological solutions for public health campaigns and programs - which is In addition to their ideology being centered traits from German society - and the world at they felt would be a generation of pure-blooded the twenties, Hitler himself was fixated on the to the point where he and other radicals like him 'Aryan race' into existence. If you've not heard used by European scholars throughout the 19th from Indo-Germanic or Indo-European peoples throughout parts of India, Persia - which is now the term 'Aryan' was actually used to describe the of their shared roots and origins. However, that Actually, the Nazis weren't the first to they were certainly the most extreme proponents used this term for a category in linguistics to theorist in the 1800s named Arthur de Gobineau, a racial category instead. Even though the the study of languages and their structures, this century from using the term as a racial grouping Aryans were racially and culturally superior to By the time the Nazis rose to power, their people with certain traits that they believed ones are blonde hair, and blue eyes, but it went Legislation in Nazi Germany used the term Aryan excluding them and any other groups of people While the definition of non-Aryan was left up as 'anyone the Nazis disliked' - someone had to trace their ancestry back to the 1800s. traced back even further to 1750, given that they So, even though the term Aryan fell out of use, permeated throughout the Nazi party. In order to Hitler wanted to increase the number of marriages, particular, couples deemed to be racially Aryan by children. Proof of 'racial purity' was required in after the Law for the Protection of German that anyone considered Aryan by the Nazis was a person of color, or who had Roma heritage. these couples to wed and start families. families should conceive four children... on that one. The Law for the Encouragement of a loan of 1,000 Marks to many newlywed couples For every child that these couples had, they were meaning that having the encouraged four-child Marks from the Nazi party. Of course, the strings children, but the knowledge that these children Financial incentives played a large part in how to have more children and contribute to the monetary allowances for lower income families, or were in marriages without children. Access to healthcare like abortions, was severely limited; anyone the Nazis deemed undesirable, While it might sound counterintuitive to by the Marriage Law of 1938, but primarily had the recommended four children within one in order for him to remarry and have even encouraged to divorce. But what about those who laws and propaganda implemented by the Nazis that there was immense societal pressure placed on problem, the Lebensborn program was created. was another facet of the Nazi's attempts racially Aryan nation. Initially, it was overseen program focused on encouraging members of this working within the SS were told to have children while any married women that they considered to seeking abortions - which had been criminalized Himmler, as the head of the SS, took direct some even considered to be voyeuristic. Any SS had to go directly through him for approval, were expected to reproduce. He also took a strange share his birthday of October 7th, personally godfather to some of them. Luckily for Gisele, days allowing her to forever avoid sharing a more Soon, though, the program began to look outside this plan to create a race of purely Aryan of what they considered the Aryan race, the Nazis financial and medical support to pregnant women, They set up a headquarters for the program at to Thomas Mann, a writer who had been forced the Lebensborn program opened its first maternity stolen from raids on Jewish households, the first of the Nazis' concentration camps. maternity homes set up in Germany alone, with a each in Denmark, Luxembourg, Holland, France and, Unmarried women had to pass a racial purty test in with only those that were deemed to be 'racially officers of the SS who lacked families of their their family lineage had to be traced back at women being accepted into the Lebensborn program those who had blonde hair and blue eyes were provided they also met a stringent height an acceptable level of medical fitness. safe place to give birth to the children of offered to women who were married as well Nazis' propaganda but unable to find a spouse, having children with SS officers, especially given people were subject to. Doing so in secret meant families from having children without marrying. been a proud member of the female equivalent of since 1933. Her loyalty to the Nazis made Lebensborn program at only 18 years old. In traits that made her an example of an Aryan woman officers as having other physical characteristics Rather than telling her parents that she they would disapprove or intervene, Lutz lied in a residential course about National Socialism, in Bavaria with 40 other girls all living under amenities like common rooms for sports and other and even a cinema. Given the luxuries and benefits it's easy to see how the Nazis coerced these for the sake of creating a mythical master race. that there had never been any cases of Lutz and the other girls had to sign a declaration They were then introduced to SS officers who also to... spend a night in each other's company. then taken by the SS and placed into nurseries they saw to the children's education and oversaw be raised by their biological SS parents. In most into the care of their biological mothers if the families instead. The children of Hildegard Lutz of the Nazi regime, separated from mothers who As if all this wasn't horrible enough, this is real Rosemary's Baby-type stuff. According to education' of these women and their newly born ceremony for each baby, inspired by old Nordic than bringing a child into a religion, it was an birth. A congregation would gather underneath a swastika flag. A master of ceremonies would then awarded to all members of the SS under the blades was etched the SS slogan "Meine Ehre heisst The person overseeing this cult-like ritual Lebensborn baby, and recite the following creed: our body. You shall grow up in our name, pride to your brotherhood, and It was thought that, by completing this ceremony, the SS, and grow up to have unquestioning However, by 1939, the program wasn't exactly had long been expected, in September of 1939, the invaded Poland. From there, the war would quickly as the Allied Forces retaliated against the As a result of the war, and not having produced program, Heinrich Himmler issued a direct order told them to have as many children as possible Nazis' army suffered as a result of the Second even going as far as to encourage Nazi officers This wasn't exactly taken as he'd hoped, with the Nazi's support of mothers who'd had children force Himmler to backpedal on this order, he never were considered 'illegitimate' children. He was outside of marriage; Himmler often criticized 'illegitimate births', having two children outside raised had what the Nazis considered to be 'good raising these Aryan children should have been With the Second World War underway, despite was expanded into other European countries of Germany in the countries that the Nazis after a policy Hitler officially issued to including members of the SS, to fraternize mobilized to. Provided, of course, that these purity and their criteria for physical fitness. stands of Nazi officers were also being welcomed before and during the war. In addition, any of Germany were forcibly 'repatriated' In 1941, six years after the Lebensborn program Nazi soldiers occupying the country started accordance with the directives they'd received of the Fuhrer himself. They were given assurances any children they had, nor were they obligated The Third Reich would raise their offspring and money for food, clothing, prams, and cots. homes, and more than 80,000 children were file containing their medical records. To any pregnant after encounters with SS officers, discreetly birth the invaders' children while care, as well as keeping the whole event a secret the Nazi occupation. It's worth noting that, while women who had these officers' children did not collaborators no doubt existed, it's entirely consensually. And yet, their own government laid Norway who were victims of the occupation. London as a result of the Nazi invasion, and they "We have previously issued a warning and we repeat rest of their lives: they will be held in contempt That was one of the most horrifying parts of the children of the countries they occupied. In during the course of World War Two, the SS be racially preferable, or who possessed the of 'Aryan.' In particular, any child with 'appropriate racial features' and was also taken. their parents to the Second World War, and had documented reports of some children being dragged tried to stop Nazi soldiers from taking them these child kidnappings, targeting, in particular, Over the course of the Second World War, in Polish children were taken from their parents As if being kidnapped wasn't traumatic enough, far worse. Some faced experimentation but those that the Nazis had taken to be housed kind of horror. The SS began a process that it brainwashing the children they just kidnapped. physical cruelty were used to force the biological parents, or forget them entirely. SS would lie to these children, attempting to intentionally abandoned them. Others were made among families in Nazi Germany to raise them under even told the truth, and instead were told by who had been orphaned by the war, not children For those children who refused to submit SS officers would relentlessly beat them, and were often sent off to concentration camps like at the hands of the SS. And, of course, the countries they invaded and orphaning children in In one particular instance, in 1942, an SS Czech mining village named Lidice. This was done the SS governor, was killed in Prague. To adult man in the village of Lidice, then took a to Germany. Of these children, only 9 were deemed like Dzierzazna and Litzmannstadti, concentration before being sent on to extermination centers. also came an end to the Lebensborn program, but After the advance of the Allied Forces and troops marched into Steinhoring near Munich, the as well as its first maternity home. There, between six months old to six years old. In homes British and Russian forces also found more mothers and most of the Lebensborn staff had SS. For his own part, SS leader Heinrich Himmler Following the war, most of these children were to their birth families, including a handful countries. Any of these children, many of whom were sent back home to the countries they'd been were found and made it back to their families. or unwillingly, birthed SS officers' children, the had ended. True to their threats, the returning arrested and jailed, despite none of them having them over laying the blame on the occupying Nazis, some having their hair shaved and being people spit on them. Anyone who had been with a German soldier was considered a heinous many who had also been victims of the Nazis' As for the Norwegian Lebensborn themselves, rid of the stigma, not until we are dead and I want my ashes to be scattered to the winds Norway's government even tried to deport the a result of the program, although this When a prominent psychiatrist claimed that the government forcibly incarcerated hundreds mental institutions. Here, many were subject the point of bleeding. One Norwegian minister become decent citizens is to believe rats in the many of these Lebensborn children were able to compensation for what was done to them; however, fault for the treatment these children received. program, it's almost impossible to tell from Nazi-occupied countries. Shortly after the around a quarter of a million children had been Nazis. Those who had been successfully Germanised came from, and neither would their adoptive German return the children who they had adopted as part the idea of going back home, believing to the Nazis' propaganda and brainwashing. least 7,500 children were born in Germany alone. Lebensborn children were ever tracked down and bittersweet ending for this awful part of history. check out "Day in a Nazi Concentration